[The Culmination of Our Theology Course by Ethel C. Smith]

Culmination of Our Sheology Course Ethel C. Smith Chairman, Theology Committee A? We enter the concluding year of the course "The Life and Ministry of the Savior' we want to express our appreciation for the privilege of using as our text the book Jesus the Christ which is a part of the priceless legacy left us by Elder James E. 'Talmage. We want to acknowledge the fine work of Elder Don B.
Colton in adapting the text for our use as Relief Society lessons. We are grateful to him for the sweet spirit of co-operation and love for the «" work which he has shown at all times in performing this service. We appreciate the work done by you stake theology leaders and by the class leaders in the various wards of your stakes in preparing, presenting, and applying these lessons. To those of you who are new in the theology department this year, may we suggest that you study the preceding lessons and the complete text to help you catch the spirit of the course and to get the necessary background for the com- RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE ing lessons. We urge that you encourage new ward class leaders to do this also. The objective of this course can be beautifully and briefly stated here in words spoken by President George F. Richards: I would like, if possible, for us to become better acquainted with our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and his life's work, that, knowing him better, we might love him more, and loving him more, 815 serve him better; and thereby obtain eternal life, God's greatest gift to man. As this year's lessons culminate our course, so the testimony period is a culmination of the theology day each month. We should like to have every member of every theology class experience the joy that comes from participation in this important part of the theology program. Is Diges—She Theology Lesson as Lt Affects Sestimony Leone G. Layton PRESIDENT J. Reuben Clark, Jr.
Stated the teaching purpose of the auxiliary organizations of the Church as follows: The sole ultimate aim and purpose of the auxiliary organizations of the Church is to plant and make grow in every member of the Church a testimony of the divinity of the Christ and of the gospel, of the divinity of the mission of Joseph Smith and of the Church, and to bring the people to order their lives in accordance with the laws and principles of the restored gospel and of the Priesthood. We feel a special responsibility in the theology department in that on our day comes the testimony period. The theology class leader has opportunity through her preparation and presentation of lesson material to create an atmosphere conducive to the bearing of testimony, and to arouse in the sisters a desire to express their appreciation to their Heavenly Father for the blessings they enjoy.
Some of our younger sisters who have been reared in the Church feel that because they have never had any unusual spiritual experiences, they have no testimony worthy of expression. In her presentation of lesson material the class leader can help them see testimony in its true light. She can place emphasis upon the principles which govern its growth. President Joseph F.
Smith relates the instance of one of his sons who, on being called on a mission, expressed doubt as to how strong a testimony he could bear. President Smith replied in effect, "You believe in being honest and virtuous and in doing good to all men, -do you not?" "Why, yes." "Well, this is part of the gospel of Jesus Christ.
Bear testimony, my son, to what you do believe and know, and other gospel truths will unfold to strengthen your testimony." I remember a simple question asked by a visiting teacher message leader in connection with a lesson. "What would your life be without the gospel?
Have you ever thought?"
That question has been 816 the means of strengthening my testimony through the years because it caused me to think deeply. Our lessons can be simple stories of the life and ministry of our Savior, leaving us with the pleasant feeling of having heard them once again, or they can, through your direction and guidance, bring us to a knowledge of the meaning of that RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1950 life and ministry every day of our lives. The teacher who prepares her lesson to meet that responsibility will be eager to finish her lesson on time so that she may share in the fine spiritual experience of testimony with her sisters.
That we may arise to our opportunities as Relief Society class leaders lS my prayer. — <i> Digest— My Sestimony Viola B. Parkinson Ensign Stake éORHE Lord requires humility, "but not ignorance" was the remark that President Joseph F.
Smith made upon one occasion when speaking of a testimony and its use. How my testimony has been strengthened by this course of study, "The Life and Ministry of the Savior," is the particular subject about which I have been asked to speak. I think it has been strengthened in at least four ways. First, by diligent study and earnest prayer that I might know for myself that Jesus is the Christ, the Savior of mankind. Second, by striving to share that which I know and feel with others. Third, by encouraging a free exchange of ideas and thoughts, and by listening to the testimonies of other women. Fourth, by seeing the fruits of our labors, in my own intellectual and spiritual growth and in the intellectual and spiritual growth of our women throughout the stake.
Speaking of the first, study and prayer, I love Jesus more today, because I know more about him and his plan of salvation.
Humility has entered my soul as ignorance has fled.
Coming to the second point, my testimony has been strengthened by striving to share that which I know and feel with others.
Every true teacher must help others to follow the Christ. Third, I have often been amazed, how, after long and careful hours of study, and kneeling and asking my Father in heaven to enlighten my mind and soul, that upon going to class and visiting around in the wards and listening to the discussions and the testimonies of. Our sisters, they could so strengthen me in my understanding and in my testimony. It has taught me humility and the beauty of the doctrine "Ye must help one another." And now the fruits of our labors, point number four, because faith without works is dead. The vital question is, "Has my life been changed by this course of study?
Have the lives of my leaders and their class members been touched, been motivated?" I believe that this RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE study of the Master and his teachings has changed the pattern of many lives. Praying, studying, sharing, applying.
This has been the challenge of the theology lessons to me. A deep and sure testimony that 817
Jesus is the Christ, and that the gospel which he gave is the way to exaltation and eternal life, has been my reward. I pray that this testimony may always abide with me and with all of you. Diges— Lo, J Am With You Alway, Mary G. Judd Chairman, Visiting Teachers Committee OR the third consecutive year, the general board is placing in the hands of a vast army of visiting teachers—over 40,000 in all—messages consisting of admonitions and other significant statements of our Savior. 'The object of delivering specific messages in the home is primarily for the good of those visited. But none of us can give inspiration to others without receiving inspiration ourselves. Christ's promise, "Lo, I am with you alway," suggests that, in our efforts, he will sustain us with his power. Yet this promise, like all others he made, cannot be fully realized unless we comprehend that 'Christ was indeed divine. It is about this particular phase of spiritual development that I wish to speak. All of us should ever keep in mind the vitality of the question asked by our Lord himself, "What think ye of Christ? Whose son is he?" We should be able to answer with conviction, even as Peter did, "Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God." It is not enough for visiting teachers to carry the words of the Savior into the homes, but they should carry within their hearts a testimony of his divinity. If the Savior is divine, then it follows that he must be perfect. One cannot find a flaw in the Galilean. He had wisdom which no other individual on earth ever possessed, in fact, he impresses us as already having the wisdom which other men must strive to attain. His power was far beyond anything earthly, for he controlled the forces of nature, even those of life and death. "What manner of man is this," his disciples asked, "that even the winds and the sea obey him!" While every other _ historical character grows dimmer with time, our Savior grows more distinct. President Heber J. Grant expressed his feeling about this characteristic in these words: The oftener I read of His life and labors the greater are the joy, the peace, the happiness, the satisfaction that fill my soul. There is ever a new charm comes to me in contemplating His words and the plan of life and salvation which He taught to men during His life upon the earth. After the completion of this year's outlined messages, the women of our Church, through their visiting teachers, will have been given twenty-four direct quotations of the Savior. Stake leaders, advise 

818 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1950 your visiting teachers to encourage the women visited to keep on living closer and closer to the Master by searching out and making their own other sayings of his.
With the sure knowledge of the divinity of Christ in our hearts, with a determination to become more familiar with his words and live his teachings to the best of our ability, we may rest assured that he will be with us alway, "even unto the end of the world." And that this may be, I pray. ~~ Concluding Statemenit—eLiterature Panel Discussion Leone O. Jacobs Chairman, Literature Committee N summing up the literature panel discussion, I think we have arrived at a few important conclusions. First, we agree that the great literature of the past is immensely valuable to us today, that there is safety in studying it, because it has stood the test of time. We agree that this literature is not old-fashioned, except in minor detail, because the truths portrayed therein are ageless, and so apply equally well to us. We have brought out the fact that the teacher should fit the material to her particular group, and that it is her responsibility to make this material carry over into their lives. We have pointed out some specific applications which might be made from the various lessons. And finally, we have recommended that mothers encourage the reading aloud of great literature in the family group.
Great books are not paper and ink and cloth, they are persons.
They are a company of immortals who have weathered the centuries and are now marching toward eternity.
They invite us to walk a little way with them.
They open their hearts to us.
They lift our horizons. And from the Doctrine and Covenants we quote: Study and learn, and become acquainted with all good books. Gternal