[Vol37 | December 1950 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Lesson | Title: 840 LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology: "Ministry of the Resurrected Christ on the Western Hemisphere" | Author: Don B. Colton]
DEPARTMENT "What will ye that I shall give unto you?" They answered: Lord, we will that thou wouldst tell us the name whereby we shall call this church; for there are disputations among the people concerning this matter. The class members should read the Lord's reply. (Read 3 Nephi 27:4-12.) It should be a great satisfaction to members of the Church that it bears the name of its head— - Jesus Christ. During his visit to the twelve disciples, the Savior took occasion to repeat many of the things he had expounded before the multitude. He told them to keep a record of his teachings, and explained that records are kept in heaven. How much we owe to those who made a record of his divine directions! The Three Nephites In appreciation of the faith and devotion of those twelve good men, the Lord spoke unto each one of them, asking: 'What is it that ye desire of me, after that I am gone to the Father?" (See Nephi 28:1-12.) Nine of them requested that they might continue in their ministry until they had reached a goodly age and then go to the Lord in his kingdom. He promised them that after they were seventy and two years old that they would come and find rest in the Lord's kingdom. He then turned to the other three: And he said unto them: Behold, I know your thoughts, and ye have desired the thing which John, my beloved, who was with me in my minis- 845 try, before that I was lifted up by the Jews, desired of me. Therefore, more blessed are ye, for ye shall never taste of death; but ye shall live to behold all things of the Father unto the children of men, even until all things shall be fulfilled according to the will of the Father, when I shall come in my glory with the powers of heaven. And ye shall never endure the pains of death; but when I shall come in my glory ye shall be changed in the twinkling of an eye from mortality to immortality; and then shall ye be blessed in the kingdom of my Father (3 Nephi 28:6-8). A change was wrought in the bodies of these three and they are in the flesh now, working somewhere in the cause of their Master. They ministered among the people for three hundred years and_possibly longer and then, because of persecution and the wickedness of the people, they were withdrawn and thereafter manifested themselves only to a righteous few. Mormon and Moroni both were ministered to by them. Growth of the Church Followed by the Apostasy of the Nephite Nation The history of the people in the land of Nephi for about one hundred seventy years is extremely interesting. The Church of Jesus Christ has within it the inherent power to make its members completely happy. Speaking to the people in the land of Nephi, the prophet Nephi said: And surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God. (Read 4 Nephi 1:15-16.) The gospel works if we will let it work. 846 Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. What remarkable prophecies were made by Samuel, the