[Used Yarn For Needlepoint Gifts by Rachel K. Laurgaard]

Used Yarn for Needlepoint Gifts Rachel K. Laurgaard Illustration by Elizabeth Williamson HERE is more yarn than you think in those old sweaters and knit suits. And, if you are a needlepoint addict, you will make good use of it! Unravel the garment, and wind the yarn into loose hanks. Rinse these hanks in cool water to smooth out the kinks, and hang them over a towel rack to dry. | If the yarn is finer than ordinary tapestry wool, use two or more strands in your needle. Stitching diagonally across the canvas, dovetailing each row with the next, will make a firm, evenly padded back of basket weaving, increasing the wearing qualities of the piece and making it easier to block. One two-piece, plum-colored knit suit yielded enough yarn for six fifteen-inch square dining-room chairs—and it was necessary to use three strands in the needle! Old Age Abbie R. Madsen Yes, life and I have traveled far Very congenially; I told her I would not grow old, Told her quite definitely. Just when it was age took my hand, I never could decide; Yet for some very pleasant years We've walked on side by side. Page 840
Poetry Evelyn Wooster Viner It is the time for me to bake, And I must bring to spice my cake A little rhythm—beat—beat—beat, To rhyme it with the oven's heat. Sweet odors rise—my poetry— That wafts me out on a spicy sea— So while such homely tasks are done The metrical thread is lightly spun. LESSON £= Sheology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Lesson 30—"Ministry of the Resurrected Christ on the Western Hemisphere" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, by Elder James E. Talmage, chapter 39.) For Tuesday, March 6, 1951
Objective: To convince the careful student that the Lord blesses people wherever they serve him. The Church, with all its blessings, was organized among the people of the Western Continent. OR this lesson we go with the Lord to the American continent where he visited his "other sheep," as he said he would. (Read John 10:16.) Latter-day Saints who have read the Book of Mormon know the history of the ancient inhabitants of America. It should be briefly reviewed in class. The descendants of Lehi had grown to be a mighty people. Though greatly divided and many of them sinful, faith in a Redeemer continued among part of the people. Mighty prophets had foretold of his birth and works in the land of Jerusalem. The Lord's Death Signalized by Great Calamities on the American Continent Samuel, a Lamanite prophet of great faith and ability, prophesied of the signs that would mark the birth of Christ. A new star would appear and there would be two days and a night devoid of darkness. All of these signs were given at the time of the birth of Jesus. Samuel told also of the destruction and great changes which would occur at the time Jesus would be crucified. (Read Helaman 14:14-27.) During the thirty-three years of the Savior's life on earth, many among the Nephites:... Began to forget those signs and wonders which they had heard, and began to be less and less astonished at a sign or a wonder from heaven, insomuch that they began to be hard in their hearts, and blind in their minds, and began to disbelieve all which they had heard and seen (3
Nephi 2:1). During the first week in April, according to our calendar, of the thirty-fourth year after the signs of the birth of Jesus had been given, there arose a great storm on this continent. The face of the land was completely changed by the elevations and depressions of the eatth's surface. Cities were destroyed by earthquakes, fires, and floods. 'The holocaust lasted for three hours; thick darkness enveloped the whole land for a period of almost three days The time corresponded closely to the time the Page 841 842