[Vol37 | December 1950 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: 816 "Lo, I Am With You Always" | Author: Mary G. Judd]
always engaged the women in the European: countries. It required considerable persuasion, however, to induce our sisters to knit for others besides their own family. War had left them with more or less of a dislike of other nations. I speak for thousands when I express thanks to the Relief Society in Zion for the large shipments of rugs, quilts, layettes, and bundles of clothing which arrived at the European ports at a moment when they were most needed. I In order to arrive at some idea of the needs, a questionnaire was sent out to the branches. When these questionnaires were returned, it was found that most of the families needed children's clothing, boys' suits, underwear, and_stockings. 'lo meet the requirements of sizes, much remodeling was neces- _ sary. Sweaters had to be unraveled and converted into stockings. Eight thousand hours were spent in the West German Mission in ripping over garments which could not be used as they were. I In the branches wherever I went: I found the sisters anxious to learn more about the restored gospel. They read the lessons eagerly as soon as translations could be made or outlines furnished. I want to say here that the Relief Society board were wonderful in sending the lessons early enough so that they could be translated so the sisters could start their lessons in October, just as the sisters here at home are doing. I testify that this is a great part of the work of Latter-day Saints, that through the inspiration of the Prophet Joseph Smith the Relief Society was organized, and we all know that no ward or branch is strong unless it has a strong Relief Society. I pray that the Lord will continue to bless these wonderful women and bless our presidency and board for the wonderful inspiration that they have given to the sisters in Europe.

---

Jesus separated himself by a little space and in humble attitude prayed to his Father. When he returned to them his disciples were still fervently praying. A second and third time Jesus retired and prayed unto the Father. While the multitude understood the meaning of his prayer the scriptures state that "tongue cannot speak the words which he prayed, neither can be written by man the words which he prayed." (Read 3 Nephi 19:16-34.) The Lord rejoiced exceedingly because of the faith of the people. He administered the sacrament again, although the people had not provided bread or wine. He spoke to the people at length about Israel of whom they were a part.. He told them that their descendants would dwindle in unbelief. However, he held out the promise: that Israel would be gathered and finally come back to the true God. The gentiles would first become a great nation on the Western Continent. Christ's Visitation to His Chosen Twelve Among the Nephites The twelve disciples were faithful in their ministry after the Lord departed and the Church prospered in the land. 'There was some contention as to-the name of the Church and Jesus appeared unto the disciples after they had prayed and fasted. He asked of them: LESSON