DECEMBER 1950

Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

Belle S. Spafford - President

Marianne C. Sharp - First Counselor

Velma N. Simonsen - Second Counselor

Margaret C. Pickering - Secretary-Treasurer

Achsa E. Paxman

Leone G. Layton

Lillie C. Adams

Christine H. Robinson

Mary G. Judd

Blanche B. Stoddard

Louise W. Madsen

Alberta H. Christensen

Anna B. Hart

Evon W. Peterson

Aleine M. Young

Nellie W. Neal

Edith S. Elliott

Leone O. Jacobs

Josie B. Bay

Mildred B. Eyring

Florence J. Madsen

Mary J. Wilson

Alta J. Vance

Helen W. Anderson

Vol. 37 DECEMBER 1950 No. 12

Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245.
Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c.

=== UNCAPTURED BODY TEXT (3 segments, 15,972 chars) ===

mbership. » We are, therefore, looking to the stake boards to prepare the Indians in this matter as in any other step in their advancement. Until such time as the Indian sisters pay dues for themselves, the organization need not submit dues for them. The work of Relief Society is so important to the women of the Church and to the Church itself, that it seems imperative that officers understand the direction we are moving and the recommended and approved methods of conducting the work. May the Lord continue to bless your efforts, I sincerely pray. > Our Sisters in the Pacific Mission' Elva T. Cowley Former Relief Society President, Pacific Mission [ is with humility that I stand before you this morning to reflect for a few moments upon my associations with the Relief Society sisters in the Pacific Mission. In 1938, I went to New Zealand with my xhusband, Matthew Cowley, where he presided over that mission for nearly eight years. Later, I accompanied him in the capacity of Relief Society president of the Pacific Mission on his tour of Australia, 'Tasmania, Tonga, Samoa, Fiji, Hawaii, and New Zealand. We were not able to secure transportation to 'lahiti. Last summer I toured the Japanese Mission, and then I stood on the land of China to witness the opening of that vast country for missionary work. RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE I know many of you have wondered just what the women in the Pacific Islands are like who claim relationship to you as sisters in the gospel. Yes, most of them have darker skins than yours, most of their traditions and habits of living are different than yours, few of them have worldly wealth and possessions, but as for their faith, for their nobility and beauty of soul and spirit, as for their charity, their kindness of heart, as for their love of God, and their understanding of _ the scriptures, and as for their reverence for the Priesthood, they cannot be surpassed. I have never heard one of them criticise an Authority of the Church. They follow the admonition of the Lord to Adam and Eve "to multiply and replenish the earth." Children are their riches, and their joy. Ifa couple cannot have children, they go to the Priesthood for blessings. I have seen marvelous miracles through their great faith. The women are the burden bearers. They bear the children, take care of their homes, work in the kumera patches, the rice paddies, the shearing shed, they gather the bananas and the cocoa beans. To the very best of their ability they carry out the weekly Relief Society program of the Church. Those who take The Relief Society Magazine consider it a treasure, and every member in the family 827 reads it. When we told these sisters about the Relief Society Building campaign here in Zion, they were more than anxious to contribute. When the sisters in Samoa handed me over $700 to bring here, it almost hurt me to take it, becrise I could see that they needed so many things for themselves. They are not all perfect, far from it; but if one or the other takes a cup of tea, or a cup of coffee, you don't hear them rationalize, and they don't try to change the interpretation of the Word of Wisdom to suit themselves. No, but they will confess they are weak and that they're not living up to the principles of the gospel, and pray that they may do better. Can we be proud to claim relationship to them as sisters in the gospel? I think so. I I bear you my testimony that I know that God lives. I know that Joseph Smith was an instrument in his hands, and I know that this Relief Society was a divinely inspired organization. God grant that we as Relief Society women, as mothers in this Church, may have greater love, greater tolerance and understanding for our fellow men. God grant that we may use our efforts and our franchise to help to bring about the unity of nations and peace upon this earth, I humbly pray. I — Digest— Our Sisters in the &uropean Mission Leona B. Sonne Former Relief Society President, European Mission HIS is a great opportunity and a privilege for me. In the fall of 1946 when we arrived in Europe, the aftermath of war could be seen and felt everywhere. War wreckage lay scattered. Rubble and debris 828 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1950 were piled high on the streets. Homes were crowded; old women, mothers, and their children would be seen on the streets with their little hand-drawn wagons gathering greens to be cooked for their dinners. 'hey would pick up pieces of wood, for fuel was scarce. People were hungry. People were cold. It was not easy to revive the former interest in Church work, for the seven years of war had changed the living standards and habits of the people. Women had _ been drawn from their homes to do the work of men. Children too young to work were frequently left at home to care for themselves and to await the return of father and mother. I need not tell you that many of the Relief Society organizations had ceased to function. Many families had moved to other localities and their names were not on record. However, as soon as the missionaries began to arrive from Zion, a new impetus took hold of the Church members. Gradually branches were reopened, and the outlined program introduced. Bedding was very scarce. Quilting soon became a project in most of the missions, but the sisters first had to be trained in the art of quilting. Many said it couldn't be done, but it was amazing to. See the joy with which they showed us the quilts which they had made. In Denmark the missionaries pioneered and promoted this project. Knitting and needlework have always engaged the women in the European: countries. It required considerable persuasion, however, to induce our sisters to knit for others besides their own family. War had left them with more or less of a dislike of other nations. I speak for thousands when I express thanks to the Relief Society in Zion for the large shipments of rugs, quilts, layettes, and bundles of clothing which arrived at the European ports at a moment when they were most needed. I In order to arrive at some idea of the needs, a questionnaire was sent out to the branches. When these questionnaires were returned, it was found that most of the families needed children's clothing, boys' suits, underwear, and_stockings. 'lo meet the requirements of sizes, much remodeling was neces- _ sary. Sweaters had to be unraveled and converted into stockings. Eight thousand hours were spent in the West German Mission in ripping over garments which could not be used as they were. I In the branches wherever I went: I found the sisters anxious to learn more about the restored gospel. They read the lessons eagerly as soon as translations could be made or outlines furnished. I want to say here that the Relief Society board were wonderful in sending the lessons early enough so that they could be translated so the sisters could start their lessons in October, just as the sisters here at home are doing. I testify that this is a great part of the work of Latter-day Saints, that through the inspiration of the Prophet Joseph Smith the Relief Society was organized, and we all know that no ward or branch is strong unless it has a strong Relief Society. I pray that the Lord will continue to bless these wonderful women and bless our presidency and board for the wonderful inspiration that they have given to the sisters in Europe.

---

Jesus separated himself by a little space and in humble attitude prayed to his Father. When he returned to them his disciples were still fervently praying. A second and third time Jesus retired and prayed unto the Father. While the multitude understood the meaning of his prayer the scriptures state that "tongue cannot speak the words which he prayed, neither can be written by man the words which he prayed." (Read 3 Nephi 19:16-34.) The Lord rejoiced exceedingly because of the faith of the people. He administered the sacrament again, although the people had not provided bread or wine. He spoke to the people at length about Israel of whom they were a part.. He told them that their descendants would dwindle in unbelief. However, he held out the promise: that Israel would be gathered and finally come back to the true God. The gentiles would first become a great nation on the Western Continent. Christ's Visitation to His Chosen Twelve Among the Nephites The twelve disciples were faithful in their ministry after the Lord departed and the Church prospered in the land. 'There was some contention as to-the name of the Church and Jesus appeared unto the disciples after they had prayed and fasted. He asked of them: LESSON DEPARTMENT "What will ye that I shall give unto you?" They answered: Lord, we will that thou wouldst tell us the name whereby we shall call this church; for there are disputations among the people concerning this matter. The class members should read the Lord's reply. (Read 3 Nephi 27:4-12.) It should be a great satisfaction to members of the Church that it bears the name of its head— - Jesus Christ. During his visit to the twelve disciples, the Savior took occasion to repeat many of the things he had expounded before the multitude. He told them to keep a record of his teachings, and explained that records are kept in heaven. How much we owe to those who made a record of his divine directions! The Three Nephites In appreciation of the faith and devotion of those twelve good men, the Lord spoke unto each one of them, asking: 'What is it that ye desire of me, after that I am gone to the Father?" (See Nephi 28:1-12.) Nine of them requested that they might continue in their ministry until they had reached a goodly age and then go to the Lord in his kingdom. He promised them that after they were seventy and two years old that they would come and find rest in the Lord's kingdom. He then turned to the other three: And he said unto them: Behold, I know your thoughts, and ye have desired the thing which John, my beloved, who was with me in my minis- 845 try, before that I was lifted up by the Jews, desired of me. Therefore, more blessed are ye, for ye shall never taste of death; but ye shall live to behold all things of the Father unto the children of men, even until all things shall be fulfilled according to the will of the Father, when I shall come in my glory with the powers of heaven. And ye shall never endure the pains of death; but when I shall come in my glory ye shall be changed in the twinkling of an eye from mortality to immortality; and then shall ye be blessed in the kingdom of my Father (3 Nephi 28:6-8). A change was wrought in the bodies of these three and they are in the flesh now, working somewhere in the cause of their Master. They ministered among the people for three hundred years and_possibly longer and then, because of persecution and the wickedness of the people, they were withdrawn and thereafter manifested themselves only to a righteous few. Mormon and Moroni both were ministered to by them. Growth of the Church Followed by the Apostasy of the Nephite Nation The history of the people in the land of Nephi for about one hundred seventy years is extremely interesting. The Church of Jesus Christ has within it the inherent power to make its members completely happy. Speaking to the people in the land of Nephi, the prophet Nephi said: And surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God. (Read 4 Nephi 1:15-16.) The gospel works if we will let it work. 846 Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1. What remarkable prophecies were made by Samuel, the Lamanite prophet? Tell of their fulfillment. 2. Describe the events which occurred on the Western Continent at the time of the crucifixion of the Savior. 3. What ordinance of the gospel was introduced by Jesus when he visited the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1950 Nephites? Tell how it was done. 4. How many visits were made by the Savior to the Nephites? Tell what instructions were given during each visit. References in the Gospels Matt. 3:17; 5; 6; 7; 19:28; 27:52, 53. Mark 1:11; 16:15, 16. Luke 9:35; 22:30. John 10:16; 12:48. (siting Seacher ITlessages— Our Savior Speaks Lesson 14—"A New Commandment I Give Unto You, That Ye Love One Another; As I Have Loved You, That Ye Also Love One Another" © (John 13:34). Mary Grant Judd For Tuesday, March 6, 1951 Objective: gives us to follow. N what sense, we might enquire, was the injunction of Christ to his disciples to love one another a new commandment? Certainly the world had known love before. 'The love of parent for child, the love of friend for friend, are as old as mankind. As early as the time of the children of Israel, the Lord, speaking through their leader Moses, had admonished them, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself" (Lev. 19:18), and again, "Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might" (Deut. 6:5). It was in his concept of love and its all-inclusiveness that the Christ went far beyond anything that had been previously taught. Where earlier teachers had sought to regulate the lives of their followers with innumerable rules and _ exactions, To show the all-inclusiveness of the pattern of love which Christ the Divine Master seemed to say: I will show you a more simple way. If you but love, you will unconsciously fulfill the whole law. His plan was to purify our hearts and then to leave love to direct our footsteps. He gave us the rule of the second mile. "Whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain" (Matt. 5:41). "And him that taketh away thy cloke forbid not to take thy coat also" (Luke 6:29). The apostle Paul, an ardent advocate of the Savior's teachings, in the thirteenth chapter of First Corinthians has given us an inspired definition of what constitutes real love. What a set-back to egotism, pride, and _ self-righteousness _ his words convey. Are you an eloquent speaker with knowledge of worldly things? He asks. Do you have faith LESSON DEPARTMENT to perform miracles? Are you a philanthropist? Would you give your life for your religious convictions? Love (the pure love of Christ) so Paul declares, is greater than any of these. Love is patient, kind, and humble. Love is generous, courteous, and happy in the success of others. 847 In this world of change, and sometimes of disillusionment, one verity remains, for "love never faileth." Let us carefully consider this divine attribute of the Savior and his admonition, "A new commandment I give unto you, that ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another."

---

You are to be complimented on the amount of good literature it contains. —Elder Myron Bowen, Wood Lake, California Your "Col lege grade" courses In education, offered in RELIEF SOCIETY Use eminent textbooks in every field: Theology: The Life and Ministry of the Savior Reference: JESUS THE CHRIST, by James E. Talmage Cloth $2.75, Leather $7.00 Visiting Teacher Messages: Our Savior Speaks Reference: THE HOLY BIBLE L. D. S. Missionary Edition, Fabric Bound $7.50; Persian Morocco $11.00; Others $1.75 to $20.00 Work Meeting: The Art of Homemaking Reference: THE COMPLETE BOOK OF SEWING, by Constance Talbot $2.98 Literature: The Literature of England Reference: THE LITERATURE OF ENGLAND, VOL. I by Woods, Watt, and Anderson $4.50, by mail $4.75 1950-51 LESSONS FEATURE: Paradise Lost Paradise Regained and Samson Agonistes John Dryden, Richard Steele, and Joseph Addison Jonathan Swift, Alexander Pope, Oliver Goldsmith, Samuel Johnson, and James Boswell Social Science: The Progress of Man Reference: THE PROGRESS OF MAN by Joseph Fielding Smith (Temporarily out of print. New edition coming.) — All prices are subject to change without notice — Deseret Book Company 44 East South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 1. Mention The Relief Society Magazine When Buying From Advertisers U. S. POSTAGE 2¢ Paid _I SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH _ I..2 PERMIT No. 690. 5). OM PANY Salt Lake City.