[Vol37 | December 1950 | Sequence: 19 | Category: General Feature | Title: 802 Elder Joseph Fielding Smith Appointed Acting President of the Council of the Twelve | Author: Henry A. Smith]
Joseph Smith was an instrument in his hands, and I know that this Relief Society was a divinely inspired organization. God grant that we as Relief Society women, as mothers in this Church, may have greater love, greater tolerance and understanding for our fellow men. God grant that we may use our efforts and our franchise to help to bring about the unity of nations and peace upon this earth, I humbly pray. I — Digest— Our Sisters in the &uropean Mission Leona B. Sonne Former Relief Society President, European Mission HIS is a great opportunity and a privilege for me. In the fall of 1946 when we arrived in Europe, the aftermath of war could be seen and felt everywhere. War wreckage lay scattered. Rubble and debris 828 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1950 were piled high on the streets. Homes were crowded; old women, mothers, and their children would be seen on the streets with their little hand-drawn wagons gathering greens to be cooked for their dinners. 'hey would pick up pieces of wood, for fuel was scarce. People were hungry. People were cold. It was not easy to revive the former interest in Church work, for the seven years of war had changed the living standards and habits of the people. Women had _ been drawn from their homes to do the work of men. Children too young to work were frequently left at home to care for themselves and to await the return of father and mother. I need not tell you that many of the Relief Society organizations had ceased to function. Many families had moved to other localities and their names were not on record. However, as soon as the missionaries began to arrive from Zion, a new impetus took hold of the Church members. Gradually branches were reopened, and the outlined program introduced. Bedding was very scarce. Quilting soon became a project in most of the missions, but the sisters first had to be trained in the art of quilting. Many said it couldn't be done, but it was amazing to. See the joy with which they showed us the quilts which they had made. In Denmark the missionaries pioneered and promoted this project. Knitting and needlework have