[Work Meeting: Choosing and Arranging Furniture by Christine H. Robinson]

Work Meeting) Lesson 6—Choosing and Arranging Furniture Christine H. Robinson For Tuesday, March 13, 1951 COMFORT, livability, and a feeling of hospitality in a home, to a large measure, depend upon the choice and arrangement of furniture. In choosing furniture, family needs, individuality, good taste, and -the architectural characteristics of the room should be given careful consideration.
These guides, if faithfully followed, will lead the homemaker to select individual pieces which harmonize with one another, fit properly into the room's decorative scheme, and give the home an individuality and character of its own. The furnishing of a livable home does not necessarily require the expenditure of large sums of money.
Thoughtful planning and ingenuity in the use and alteration, if necessary, of those items of furniture already in the home, together with the addition of perhaps a few carefully selected new pieces, is often all that is required to give a home a "new furnished look." Far too frequently purchases of furniture are made because of a salesman's pressure or because the argument is given that it is in high style, or is being bought by Mrs. So and So. 'This is of course a serious mistake in buying.
Before any purchase is made, the home and the family's specific needs should be studied carefully.
Only furniture which fills the needs of the family and fits the decorative scheme of the home should be purchased.
Often it will be found that an old chest or table which is already in the home can be sanded down, the ornamentation removed, and painted or lacquered to add a new note of color and interest. If new pieces of furniture are needed, they should be bought preferably one at a time. 'The policy of buying less than is needed, rather than over-buying is not only safer and more economical, but will be more fun and will extend the re- 

848  juvenation of the home over a longer period of time. In the purchase of new furniture it is well to keep the following guides in mind: First, if a home is to be welldecorated, the scale or size of the furniture is important. Large, oversized furniture is not appropriate in a small room. It will give the room a small cramped feeling. On the other hand, small, spindly pieces look out of place in a large room. In selecting furniture, remember that most pieces look smaller in the store than they will look in a home. Second, in the selection of new furniture, it is generally wise to choose individual pieces rather than suites. 'This applies particularly to the purchase of sofas and chairs. A living room will have more character and perform its function better if the sofa and chairs are chosen individually in the style and size which fit best the particular decorating scheme. 'This does not mean that twin sets of tables, chairs, and lamps should not be used. 'These identical pieces can be used effectively in decorating. If twin furniture items are used in the home, they should be used as twins, emphasizing their sameness. 'T'win chairs should have the same upholstery and should be used in the same furniture grouping. 'I'win lamps should be placed on identical tables. Third, mix furniture woods and styles wisely.
Different colored woods and various periods and styles of furniture can be used in the same room. In fact, the well-decorated contemporary home often combines various periods of furniture as long as harmony, scale, and the family's individual needs and preferences are used as guides.
This modern freedom from period authenticity enables the homemaker, as never before, to express her individuality and good taste. However, in mixing woods and styles of furniture, the elements of formality or informality should be constantly kept in mind. For example, formal type French furniture would not fit in with informal Early American styles. On the other hand, country style French Provincial, Early American, and simple Modern can be effectively combined to create a friendly hospitable room.
Furniture can be arranged for comfortable living and for -sociable hospitality if four simple guides are followed. First, arrange furniture. For the family's maximum comfort and convenience.
Modern decoration stresses placing furniture so as to utilize to best advantage all room space, corners, windows, and other areas for convenient living. No longer is furniture lined up against the walls in soldier-like fashion, but is arranged in groupings throughout the room to give proper consideration to the family's needs for conversation, relaxation, reading, enjoyment of music, radio, and television. A room will be neither attractive nor inviting to social conversation if seating facilities are scattered around it with no evidence of planned grouping. To invite pleasant sociability, make sure to have at least one furniture group where four or more people can engage in easy conversation without moving heavy chairs.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Second, every well-decorated room must have a focal point or center of interest. Otherwise, the room is confusing and unimpressive. Good room decoration begins at a focal point which is sufficiently dramatic to attract attention. A small room will have only one important furniture grouping which will of itself be the center point of interest. A larger room may have two or more groupings, but _ one should always dominate in color, line, and design. A room's strongest color accent should be concentrated at this point of interest. Possible centers of interest in a room, around which can be built a furniture grouping are a fireplace, a bay or picture window, or even a substantial wall area. A wall area may be made a center of interest through a sofa and chair grouping, together with an appropriate mirror or a well-chosen picture or pictures. Third, balance, formal or informal, is one of the most important elements in furniture arrangement. To be properly balanced, a room, when viewed from any angle, must give a feeling of stability and unity. Formal, or even balance, is defined as "equal shapes equally distant from a center." 'This can be created in a furniture grouping by using identical chairs, tables, lamps, and the like. Formal balance gives a room a dignified, quiet, steady feeling. Most rooms look best if at least two walls have this type of treatment. Informal, or uneven balance, ls the arrangement of unequal shapes at varied distances from a center. 849
This can be achieved by placing two chairs, a table and a lamp opposite a sofa. Informal balance is more lively and, when done well, has more interest. To make a room interesting and attractive, a combination of both types of balance should be used. Too much even balance produces a feeling of monotony. 'Too much uneven balance may create a feeling of restlessness and confusion. In arranging furniture for proper balance, be sure important pieces such as sofas, desks, radios, beds pianos, and chests are placed parallel to the wall and not cater-cornered. Large furniture pieces placed at diagonal angles tend to make a circle out of a room. Such an arrangement is confusing and makes a room look smaller. Fourth, in arranging furniture, natural traffic lanes should be provided for. Ample space should be allowed for doors to open and for people to get from one place to another in the room. Sufficient space should be left around each grouping to give a feeling of roominess. Furthermore, every space in the room does not have to be filled. Modern decorating stresses spaciousness and suggests that a room have a little less furniture than it needs rather than too much. To repeat, the selection and arrangement of furniture is of paramount importance in attractive and comfortable home decorating. 'The homemaker who follows a_ plan based upon the fundamentals described in this lesson can do much to make sure that her home is furnished with the maximum good taste and economy. 850
Discussion Points 1.
Discuss the advantages of buying individual pieces rather than suites of furniture. 2.
Have members of the class present examples of old furniture pieces which have been made over and rejuvenated.  3.
Illustrate with magazine picture cutouts each of the three basic guides of furniture selection.
Illustrate in the same way three basic guides of furniture arrangement. 5- Illustrate how the scale drawing of a room can be used to help in furniture arrangement. Sit cralee Ae