[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
	Agnes Cross Douglass, the subject of this sketch,
was born on April 6, 1818, in the parish of Carro-
way, County Antrim, Ireland.
	She was the daughter of John Cross and Margar-
et McCune Cross. She resided with her parents un-
til she was sixteen years of age when her mother
died leaving to her entire charge the care of seven
children, the youngest at that time being only
eleven months old.
	Her father, becoming dissatisfied, left Ireland
and went to Scotland, the family soon following
after, and they made their home at Campsie, near
Glasgow. It was here that she heard and embraced
the Gospel as taught by the Latter-day Saints.
She was baptised by Elder David Wilkie on March
30, 1842, and was married Oct. 14 in the same year
to William Douglass. Soon after they moved to
Belfast, Ireland, where they made their home un-
til the year 1844. They emigrated to America,
crossing the sea in the good ship Norfolk, from 
Liverpool by way of New Orleans, coming up the
Mississippi river by steamboat to St. Louis, where 
they arrived in December, 1844.
	The following spring they left St. Louis and
went to Nauvoo, and there built a house and
passed through the stirring scenes of that trying
time, their house being riddled by bullets from the
guns of the mob.
	By the counsel of Elder Orson Hyde, on the 6th
of April, 1846, the family returned to St. Louis
and remained in that city until March 10, 1848.
	On that date they left St. Louis by ox team
bound for the west and traveled from there to 
Winter Quarters near to where the city of Omaha
now stands.
	On May 17, 1848, the family started from Win-
ter Quarters for Salt Lake Valley in Brigham
Young's company, Lorenzo Snow being captain
of the one hundred wagons and Thomas McClel-
land being captain of the ten in which Brother
and Sister Douglass traveled.
	The journey across the plains was a tedious one
as they  had to make roads and build bridges along 
the route.
	The company arrived in Salt Lake Valley Sept.
23, 1848. In 1849 the family built a house in the
First Ward, in Salt Lake City, Sister Douglass as-
sisting in its erection. The house in question still
stands, a monument of the untiring energies of
its builders.
	In the spring of 1858 the family in company
with others left Salt Lake City and located in Pay-
son, and the family from that date have been
closely identified with the business enterprises of 
Payson.
	Sister Douglass has always been an energetic
church worker, and while a resident in the First
Ward, Salt Lake City, she was chosen first coun-
selor to Sister Lydia Knight. president of the (Fe-
male) Relief Society of that ward.
	Her record in Payson has been on the same ac-

[Column 2]
tive lines, and on the organization of the Payson
Relief Society she was chosen first counselor to
Sister Jane Simons, its president; associated with
her were Sister Mary Moore, Clarissa Moore and
Mary Ann Hardy, all of whom performed active
work in ministering to the sick, bringing aid to
the needy. and performing the last sad rites to the
silent dead.
	Sister Douglass was a wise counselor, her ex-
perience qualifying her for that position, under-
standing human nature in all its forms. Her judg-
ment was formed on safe lines, and never doubt-
ing the divinity of the work she had embraced in 
her early you[-]h she was true and faithful to the 
end of her mortal life.
	Surrounded by loving children, and here let it
be added, by the spirit of one of her departed
children, who was waiting to pilot her to her
heavenly home, she succumbed to the pains of
mortality, departing this life Sept. 5, 1906, aged
88 years and 5 months.
	She was the mother of eight children, four of
whom, including her husband, preceded her to the
spirit world. The four remaining children 
are married and reside in Payson, as follows: Samuel
Douglass, Joseph S. Douglass, Mrs Hyrum Lem-
mon, Mrs. M. D. Dixon. Thirty-five grandchil-
dren and thirty-five great-grandchildren are left
to mourn the departure of the deceased.
	Sister Douglas could truly say as was said by
one of old.
	“I have fought the good fight. I have finished
my course, I have kept the faith; henceforth there
is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which
the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at
that day, and not to me only, but unto all them
also that love His appearing.”
	The funeral services were held Friday after-
noon, Sept. 7th, in the Second Ward meeting-
house, and the body interred in the beautiful family
burial spot in the Payson City cemetary.—Com.


