[Column 1]
THANKSGIVING DAY.
	There never has been a time when
there was greater cause for rejoicing
among this people than now. The bounti-
ful harvests of fields and orchards should
fill every soul with gratitude and praise
to Him who rules on high, who watches
over all, and pours out blessings in such
rich abundance. Not only is this goodly
land filled with earthly comforts and lux-
uries, but there are blessings of a spirit-
ual nature such as were never before en-
joyed by any people of which we have
knowledge in ancient or modern history.
The blessings of temples wherein those
who are prepared may go and minister
for their ancestry.
	Four of these sacred edifices have
been erected to the name of the Most
High, since a few poor pilgrims came
with scant provisions and belongings, to
settle these valleys: to find peace and se-
curity from their oppressors. This little
handful of people have made a record in
this region such as history has not record-
ed hitherto. The Latter-day Saints
count the blessings they have received in
temples above all earthly riches, and yet
perhaps they are not as mindful of them
as they should be.
	Our Father in heaven is merciful and
long-suffering with His people, but it is
the duty, and should be esteemed a priv-
lege and pleasure, to acknowledge His
goodness and favors in the most humble
manner every day and hour in the heart,
and in prayer and intercession to Him
who holds the “keys of the universe,”
that these great blessings may not be
taken from us, but that this people, who
have found favor with the Lord, may
live in such a way that He will continue to
acknowledge and bless them, and multi-
ply them, that they may accomplish the
work He has set His hand to perform in
these last days.
	Meantime happiness, as far as possible,
should pervade the hearts and peace
abide in the homes of the Saints, that the
Holy Spirit may be the guide at all times
of those who are partakers of such mani-
fold blessings.
	It is right and proper to set apart days
for special thanksgiving and to observe
them as such. It is good for men and
women to cease toiling for a day, even if
it is only a change. Activity is good in
any legitimate direction, and pleasant
diversion for the mind and body in mod-
eration is beneficial; and rational enjoy-

[Column 2]
ment for elderly people, as well as chil-
dren and young folks, brightens life and
exhilarates the mind; social intercourse
such as is usually promoted on these oc-
casions, when one sits down to a Thanks-
giving dinner, and the conversation is en-
livening, often produces a pleasurable,
lasting effect, as well as that of the time
being. One remembers people met at
table long afterwards, and incidents that
transpired. Such dinners are recalled oft-
times, not because of the feast of
good things, nearly as much as the good-
fellowship. or story-telling, or song-sing-
ing and music indulged in as informal
after-dinner pastimes.
	Thanksgiving in New England in the
nineteenth century was the one day
looked forward to, when all the family,
with cousins, aunts, and other relatives
and invited friends gathered; and the
most sumptuous dinner possible was
bountifully served. In those days none
of the old-fashioned families observed
Christmas, and the exchange of gifts was
for New Year’s Day—the only regular gift
day; now peeple are so profuse with gifts
that it is the other extreme.
	Thanksgiving this year finds this people
in the enjoyment of so many choice gifts
and blessings that we can scarcely count
them; but should with due reverence try
to appreciate the prosperity that has
come, and so live as to beworthy, if
possible, of a continuation of years of
prosperity in which to build up Zion, and
to use the means with which the Lord
blesses His people, that Zion may indeed
be glorious and accepted of the Lord;
and that this chosen gathering place may
be preserved when death and destruction
encompass the land.


