[Column 1]
A CHRONICLE OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
				III.
	There was at Favorsham, Kent, Eng-
land a branch of the Relief Society or-
ganized at an early date, we have not the
positive date unfortunately, or we would
give it here but we have a notice of its
holding a semi Annual Conference on
March 21, 1881—in which it is stated much
of the time was occupied with reports, a
synopsis of which was sent to the London
Conference. The President’s name is
given, Sister Ann Cornford. This Relief
Society Conference was held in the after-
noon and at the close of the meeting a
social tea provided by the President and
her Counselors was enjoyed, and in the
evening the Relief Society held a joint
session with the priesthood of the Favors-
ham branch. This Society numbered
twenty members and they visited among
the Saints. This report is from a letter of
Elder Edward King’s who was at that
time laboring there, as was also Elder
Joseph A. Jennings.
	Auckland, New Zealand, Relief Society
was organized by Elder George Batt, De-
cember 22, 1880, Sister Isabel Lucy ap-
pointed President; Sisters Day and Fox,
Counselors; Sister Williams, Secretary;
Sister Miles, Treasurer. June 9, 1881, the
President and her Counselors left New
Zealand for Zion and Sister Hannah Cox
was elected President by unanimous vote
of the members. This Society was in a
flourishing condition in 1881, at the date
of the letter received, and much means
had been donated and earned by sewing.
Meetings were held semi-monthly.
	The first Relief Society in the Swiss and
German Mission was in Berne Switzer-
land by Elder P. F. Goss, June 30, 1882.
At the time of the visit of Sister Annie
Wells Cannon in 1883, she wrote concern-
ing this Society of Berne, and others, she
says: Notwithstanding that it has lost
many members through the emigration it
still has a membership of 39. Regular
meetings are held every fort-night, in one
meeting the sisters speak and bear testi-
mony, and in the other report the districts
to which they have been assigned. In
addition to these meetings, work meetings
are held occasionally. The last report
dated January 15, 1884, stated that the
cash on hand amounted to Frs. 26.32, and
that they had an outlay during the preced-
ing six months of Frs. 33.60. The officers
were Rosina Steiner, President; Magda-
lene Meyer and Maria Schneider, Counse-
lors; Sophia Kindlisbacher, Secretary.
	The Relief Society of Schaffhausen was
organized by Elder Alvis Boner, the 5th
of February, 1883, though a very small
Society it has been a very industrious and
active one. In the one year it has held
36 meetings, most of them work meetings.
Sister Barga Haage the energetic Presi-
dent has been untiring in her endeavors,
and much good has been done by this
little Society though only numbering
seven members. They started with a
working capital of Frs. 4.63, which they
have increased nine fold. They have as-
sisted some of their emigrating sisters
and purchased many useful Xmas gifts for
the needy children of the branch of the
Church in that place.
	The Relief Society of Scherll was or-
ganized September 24, 1883, by Elder John
Stucki. There are now eleven members.
Elizabeth Michel, President; Eliza Kohler

[Column 2]
and Kathrine Michel, Counselors; and
Anna Eliza Michel, Secretary. The mem-
bers express themselves much improved
strengthened and encouraged by these
meetings and better able to help each
other in different ways.
	The Relief Society of Linach was or-
ganized on February 3, 1884, by Elder
Avis Bauer. There are ten members;
Barbara Naef, President; Maria Fretz
and Babette Fischer, Counselors; and
Rosina Baahardt, Secretary. The annual
Conference of the Swiss and German Mis-
sion was held in Berne on the 23rd and
24th of December 1883. The last even-
ing of the Conference, Dec. 24th, the
Relief Society held a meeting. Eleven
Elders and one sister from Utah were
present (Sister Annie Wells Cannon) and
a large attendance of Saints besides many
strangers. Sister Rosina Steiner presided
with ease and coolness. Good and inter-
esting testimonies were borne, and en-
couragement offered to the sisters in the
work in their different languages, English,
French and German, to say nothing of
the different dialects, that might be called
many more languages.
	They were delighted with the things
told them by Sister Cannon about the
work of the Relief Society in Zion and
especially pleased when told a Hospital
had been founded under the auspices of
the Society here in Utah.
	Sister Cannon wrote, those engaged in
the Society work have discovered the
great benefit of the organization in times
of sickness and need, that they are of
much help to each other and to the breth-
ren and that the Society is a great sup-
port to the branch of the Church to which
it belongs.
	While Sister Cannon was in Europe on
the Continent, she prepared a sort of
Epistle, “To the Relief Society of the
Swiss and German Mission” which was
published in the “Stern.” This Epistle
set forth the work of women in the
Church, the organization of the Relief
Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith in
Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842, and in
fact gave a sketch of the Society up to
that time mentioning the General Officers
and certain departments of the work,
storing grain, the Woman’s Exponent,
sericulture, the Deseret Hospital the en-
couraging of young women in the study
of medicine as a profession, and many
other things incidentally. The epistle
was highly approved by Sister Eliza R.
Snow then General President of the So-
ciety, who commended it and wished it
published, in the Woman’s Exponent
here in Utah, which was accordingly done
by her request.
	It is only just to add that at the time
Sister Cannon visited these organizations
abroad, she was only a very young woman
twenty three years of age.


