[Column 1]
UNVEILING OF BRONZE TABLET.
	The Congregational Club of Boston,
Mass. have presented to the oldest Re-
formed Church in Holland a bronze tablet
inscribed as a memorial in recording his-
tory in artistic symbol.
	First is set forth the “seal of the Re-
formed Church of Delfshaven with the
correct topography as it was in the 16th
century with waterway, quays and haven.”
Within the encircling motto we read first
in Hebrew letters mystic consonant, and
unseen words the pre-ancient covenant
name,
			JEHOVAH.
	Then in Dutch speech the motto and
confession of faith, rendered into English.
		“The Haven of salvation Above
			with God in Zion.”
	Below this they explain “the true words
accepted by us all, and binding us every
one in unity of loyalty to a common Sa-
vior, revealer of Jehovah and of our
Father,”
		“ONE IN CHRIST.”
	Next confronting each other across
friendly space are the arms of the State
of Massachusetts, with the figure of the
Algonquin Indian, oldest inhabitant of the
Western world, and the town arms of
Delfshaven, once the port of Delft, and a
common community by itself, but now
part of Rotterdam, seventh shipping port
of the world; with its green and gold her-
rings, and wheat, emblems of agriculture
and of the fisheries. These tell the eye
how the men by the Maas won their food
from the sea as well as from the land.

[Column 2]
	Then follows the text from the Ameri-
can Book of Genesis Bradford’s testimony
to Dutch hospitality. His words bind our
hearts and our consciences to this day.
	Then the inscription giving the name
of the donors also paying honor to the
Pilgrim Fathers. “It records a fact of
history which meant one of the decisive
events of the world.”
	The Tulip Holland’s typical flower en-
graved belowin one corner and in anti-
phonal association making harmony the
Trailing Arbutus the May Flower, “which
in their new home greeted the Pilgrims
with life, beauty and perfume, after the
frosts of winter. Its glossy leaves, waxen
petals and sweet odor cheered their spirits
and touched their imaginations, while it
seemed to waft welcome.” Then follows
—“The inscription July 22, A. D. 1620.”

	The Pilgrim Fathers Began Their
		Voyage To New England.
	Obliged by their good and courteous
		entreaty 
	Which we have found in your
		country
	We and our children are bound to
		be thankful.

Governor William Bradford to the Dutch
	in Manhattan March 19, 1827.
In Token of enduring gratitude and in
Christian Brotherhood, the Boston Con-
gregational Club rear this memorial.
		JULY 1906.
This finishes the engraving of the Tablet.
	“The Landing of the Pilgrim Fathers”
was the first hymn in the exercises and
the “Star Spangled Banner” the last. The
prayer was a very appropriate and sug-
gestive one and closes with the Lord’s
prayer—Amen” and then the words
	“Let all the people say Amen”
	Praise ye the Lord
Blessed be the Lord God of Israel from
everlasting to everlasting. Psalms cvi. 18.”
	This address with the picture of the
Tablet, the Delfshaven Reformed Church,
as it is to day, also the picture of those
who left Holland at that time, and their
names each one numbered, thirty four in
all, the picture of the first meeting for
public worship in North America Sunday,
January 21, 1621, all these are included
in the pamphlet issued in English and
Dutch which we have recently received
from Sister Emily Wells Grant.
	The address which is partly historical
was delivered by William Elliot Griffis
D. D. L. H. D. September 28, 1906 at the
unveiling of the tablet.
	The Pilgrim fathers and mothers who
sailed from Holland for England on that
ever memorable day. were joined by those
from London and Southampton numbering
altogether one hundred and one persons
who sailed on the single ship Mayflower
on the Atlantic leaving England in July
1620, and arriving at Plymouth Rock De-
cember 20, 1620.
	We are very grateful to Sister Grant
for sending this interesting pamphlet, and
glad to know that Boston men recognize
Holland’s magnanimity in receiving these
Pilgrim fathers and mothers, who were
the means with others equally brave and
heroic under Divine Providence in open-
ing the way to this goodly land of America,
where millions of people from many lands
have been partakers of religious freedom
and liberty accorded to all under the Con-
stitution of these United States.


