OBITUARY.
	To the memory of our beloved sister. Olive
W[-]olley Kimball, who departed this life October
18, 1906, at the L. D. S. Hospital, Salt Lake City,
Utah.
	The sad news was received at Thatcher, Arizona,
(her home) October 19, and cast a gloom over the
entire community. President Andrew Kimball
arrived home with his wife’s remains on Wednes-
day, October 24, and the funeral services were
held the following Sunday.
				RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom has called from our midst our beloved sis-
ter; and
	Whereas our intimate association with her in the
performance of her duties as first counselor in the
St. Joseph Stske Relief Society, thus it is emin-
ently befitting that we record our appreciation of
her labors, as she had through her kind and gen-
tle disposition endeared herself to all the sisters of
this stake.
	Resolved, by the sisters of the St. Joseph Stake,
that we mourn the loss of our dear sister, that we
appreciate the purity of her life and the worthy
example she has set for us to follow, but we are
comforted with the thought, that if worthy we will
meet and enjoy her society again.
	Resolved, that we extend to the bereaved family
our sincere sympathy and pray God that His com-
forting influence may be with them in their great
bereavement.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family of the deceased, and be
placed on our records, and one sent to the
Woman’s Exponent for publication.
	Why do we mourn that she has left us?
		We should only say well done!
	She was true to her probation,
		And a place in heaven has won.
	’Tis true her parting bas bereft us,
		But her virtues we recall—
	She was candid, firm and valiant,
		And a loving friend to all.
	She has gathered with her kindred,
		But her work will never cease.
	She will love the truth in heaven,
		And impart her works of peace.
	While she mingles with the angels.
		Yet her choicest blessings fall.
	Upon the heads of all her dear ones.
		Yes, she blesses one and all.
					ELIZABETH W. LAYTON,
					SELENA PHILLIPS,
					FANNIE W. KIMBALL,
								Committee.


