NOTES AND NEWS.
	Miss Nora Stanton Blatch, grand-
daughter of Elizabeth Cady Stanton, has
been appointed a member of the New
York City staff of civil engineers in charge
of the $161,000,000 Catskill water supply
system.
	Miss Florence Nightingale, who lately
entered on her eighty-seventh year, re-
ceived scores of congratulations on her
birthday. She is feeble physically, but
bright in mind, and she still interests her-
self in the Nightingale Nurses’ Training
Home. It is not generally known that
Miss Nightingale in her youth had a great
wish to study medicine, a profession then
closed to women. When Elizabeth Black-
well was pursuing her medical studies in
London, Miss Nightingale used often to
come and sit with her in her stuffy little
bedroom, and talk over their common
aspirations for woman’s welfare Miss
Nightingale has been a life-long advocate
of suffrage for women. When asked her
reasons, she answered, “I have no rea-
sons, It seems to me almost self-evident,
an axiom, that every householder and
taxpayer should have a voice in the ex-
penditure of the money we pay, includ-
ing, as this does, interests the most vital
to a human being.”
	The ministers of at least thirty churches
in Philadelphia on the Sunday before
election implored their flocks to vote for
the reform candidates. But, as two thirds
of the members of their flocks were wom-
en without votes, the anti-reform candi-
dates were elected.
	A “Birthday Calendar of Suffrage Wo-
men” has been prepared by Jane A. Stew-
art. It is “perpetual,” i. e., by an in-
genious arrangement, the dates can be
made to fit any year, simply by shifting
a little slip.
	It is enriched with portraits of Lucre-
tia Mott, Lucy Stone, Mrs. Stanton, Miss
Anthony, Julia Ward Howe, Mrs. Liver-
more, Frances Willard, and Mrs. Lillian
M. N. Stevens, and gives the dates of the
birthdays of a great number of famous
women. In this particular it would be a
special help to suffrage clubs that would
like to commemorate some distinguished
woman at each meeting. There are
many well-chosen quotations in favor of
equal suffrage. Those on the first page
are from Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt and
President M. Cary Thomas of Bryn Mawr.
	The calendar would make an excellent
Christmas present. It may be ordered
from the Woman’s Journal office, Boston,
Mass. Price, 30 cents.


