AGNES CROSS DOUGLAS.
	A word in remembrance of Sister Doug-
las from one of the many sisters who
knew her intimately and had often par-
taken of her boundless hospitality in her
own home. 
    Sister Douglas, who has so recently left
us to enter upon another sphere of action
was in the early days of the sisters travel-
ing and organizing in wards, etc., very
active and helpful. She was closely asso-
ciated with Sister Eliza R. Snow, and


Sister Margaret T. Smoot, (Ma Smoot)
and was a very dear friend and sort of 
comrade of Sister Elizabeth Howard.
She was a woman of dignified appear-
ance and had a good influence with her
associates and coworkers; she was well-
versed in the scriptures, full of faith and
integrity to the Gospel, and of a decided-
ly spiritual temperament. When near-
ing the close of her earthly life she be-
held a glorious vision, that seemed to 
her who was then so near the boundary
where only the “veil” separates us from
the other shore, intensely real. There
is no doubt in the minds of those who
were by her bedside at the time that
her mother appeared and called her, for 
she answered her audibly, the vision of
a dear, departed daughter was also visi-
ble to her, and the atmosphere of the 
vision in the room testified to the family
surrounding her bed that her escort was
there ready to accompany her to the
“land of pure delight.”
	As one by one these veteran sisters pass
away it recalls the fact that but few re-
main, who wrought with Sister Eliza and
Aunt Zina in the commencement of
woman’s organisations; very recently Sis-
ter Rebecca Atwood Wareham of Manti,
has joined the innumerable oompany of
those who have been among the early
workers, there are but few left now
of those who helped establish woman’s
work in the Church, here and there one
afar off in some stake of Zion, and here
we have our beloved General President of
the Relief Society, Bathsheba W. Smith
and in Ogden we have Sister Jane S.
Richards, President of the Relief Society
of Weber Stake. We should not forget
to do honor to those who have served so
long and fathfully while they are still 
with us and laboring diligently, actively
planning for the betterment of the Soci-
ety at large, that has now become so
great and numerous.


