[Column 1]
		A TRIP TO ENGLAND.
	Desirous of obtaining genealogy, and
needing a vacation, as we were somewhat
run down in health, my husband and I
came to the conclusion that we would
take a trip to the old country, conse-
quently we left Bingham Co., Idaho, in
May, for Salt Lake City, visiting also
Taylorsville and Provo, on the way, to
have a look at old friends. Afterwards we
boarded a Pullman car from Salt Lake on
the 27th of the month. It was very pleas-
sant traveling, as we could lie down at
night at our ease, and scarcely knew that
we were traveling. Next day was Sun-
day, and at ten a. m. we were seven hun-
dred miles from Ogden. No wonder they
call this train a flyer the way it sped
along, the pouring rain being no obstacle.
At 5:15 p. m. we were in Iowa, and at
daylight next morning in the State of
Illinois. Just as we got through break-
fast we learned that we were in Chicago.
We checked our luggage for Boston, and
very soon were in the State of Indiana,
then in Ohio, and soon we were passing
lots of oil wells and timberland.
	May 30, we changed cars at Buffalo en-
joyed some beautiful scenery; before the
day passed, we became acquainted with
two ladies who were going to Europe.
After passing Mohawk river, we were not
far from Boston.
	Arriving at Boston on the same day,
near dark, we found that one of these
ladies was going to Liverpool, and in-
tended getting in the same boat with us.
This fact seemed to please both parties.
This lady, I believe, said she was a pro-
fessional nurse, had worked in some of
the best families in Salt Lake City, was
acquainted with quite a number of our
people, said she could not have been bet-
ter treated than she had been by the
Latter-day Saints.

[Column 2]
	While at the hotel in Boston. we be-
came acquainted with three Elders. One
was Brother Smith, from Cottonwood,
the other was Brother Moench, from
Ogden, and the other was Brother Ken-
intson. We were introduced to a Sister
Neilson, from Ammon, Idaho, not far
from our home, but up to this time unac-
quainted she was going in the same
steamer, on her way to Denmark to join
her husband, who was there filling a mis-
sion.
	We got on board the vessel, “The Re-
public,” just before meal time. We were
told to select our seat, all of them being
numbered, and to keep the same seats
while on the voyage. So we “Mormons,”
as the term goes, sat together enjoying
ourselves with others who asked to be in
our party on board. Different counten-
ances bespoke of a variety of thought and
feelings, some looked sorrowful, having
just parted with their loved ones, while
others, their countenances beamed with
delight at the thoughts of the vacation
and rest they were about to realize; oth-
ers appeared fearful of getting seasick; as
I was always under the impression that
there are more passengers sick on the first
day than any other time, or later on I
asked the stewardess if it were so. She
answered in the negative; said when the
ship was right out in the ocean we feel
the motion of the vessel more, conse-
quently there were more sick about the
fourth day. Then some have their appe-
tites sharpened by the sea breeze and do
not restrain, therefore they get a little
bilious about that time.
	On the morning of the second day we
felt a little unsteady on first getting up,
but decided to eat nothing but a lemon,
and hurry on deck to get all the fresh air
obtainable, which was plenty. We even
forgot that there was anything like sea-
sickness. However, most of the passen-
gers were enjoying themselves. and soon
passing the time reading, conversing and
writing, also promenading the vessel and
some singing as they walked the deck.
	Some of our Elders commenced lend-
ing literature. Two ladies were very
much interested in the Articles of Faith,
said there was some grand reading in
those books.
	After a few days, when it became gen-
erally known that there were “Mormons”
on board, one man who was getting quite
popular called out, “Who wants to go to
Utah to join the ‘Mormons?’” When
he found, however, that this attempt at,
ridicule was not appreciated, he did not
seem to care to try it again. One of the
Scotch ladies before mentioned said to
this man. “Well, if these young men are
‘Mormons,’ their behavior is excellent. I
have been watching; they do not sit up in
the long hours of the night singing hideous
songs, under the influence of liquor, as
some are doing. If my berth were near
the dining rooms I should certainly com-
plain of some of them.”
	The fifth day out, all having recovered
and appearing well, some of the most
energetic on board, began to look around


