[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			SNOWFLAKE.
	Our Relief Society Conference is just
over, and we trust the work has received
an impetus which will help it to roll
along more smoothly than ever before.
	Sisters Emma S. Woodruff and Sarah
J. Cannon, of the General Board were
the chief attractions of the day and spoke
refreshingly on Relief Society work, giv-
ing timely and good advice to mothers
and explaining in detail the duties of
officers and members. The subject of
storing up grain was touched upon and
our greatest mission, the saving of souls,
was made a specialty.
	Reports of a part of the ward organiza-
tions were given by their respective presi-
dents and representatives. All spoke en-
couragingly of the attendance and the
good spirit among the sisters.
	In connection with various other speak-
ers, our esteemed ex-president, Emma
Smith, helped to make the occasion a
success by her motherly and wise coun-
sel.
	President Smith D. Rogers was present
at the afternoon session and spoke a
short time on the good the auxiliary or-
ganizations had done.
	The stake report showed an addition of
one new society to our ranks. It was or-
ganized at Woodland Sep. 10, 1906, by
President Mary J. R. West. The follow-
ing officers were sustained: Mary E.
Bradshaw, president; Thressa F. Johnson,
Julia E. West, counselors; Rettie Hansen
secretary and treasurer.
	President West expressed her gratitude
for the visit of the sisters and reported
the success of our missionary effort as
very gratifying. The sisters have taken
pleasure in visiting each other’s Relief
Society organizations, and thus far have
been kindly received.
	An entertainment in honor of Sisters
Woodruff and Cannon had been planned
for the evening, but as they were very
tired it was given up.
	We are doing as well as usual in our
work and endeavoring to do better still.
The sisters are liberal in their donations
and a spirit of love and union character-
izes all the society throughout the stake.
	Trusting the Lord will bless you abund-
antly, I remain sincerecly yours.
	DELLA F. SMITH, Stake Secretary.
			UINTAH.
	Minutes of 40th Relief Society confer-
ence of Uintah Stake of Zion held at
Glines Ward, August 30, 1906, President

[Column 2]
Sarah M. Colton presiding. After the
regular exercises of singing and prayer,
roll call and reading of minutes, President
Sarah M. Colton reported the stake in
good condition. Essay from Glines Re-
lief Society read by Sister Emily Ratty,
written by Sister Annie Snider, entitled
“Progress of women.”
	Reports given from the following sis-
ters: Edna Cole reported Mountain Dell;
Sister Phebe Histop reported Maeser;
Sister Mary O’Neil reported Glines. Each
reported the respective society in good
condition. Lecture by Sister Almeda
Perre, subject, “Mother and Home In-
fluence.” Sister Emma Roberts reported
Naples. Sister Hannah Odekirk reported
Vernal. Each reported the respective
society in fair condition. Sister Nancy
A. Colton spoke a short time, referred to
the 25th chapter of Matthew, and then
spoke upon the chapter. Sister Rhoda
Goodrich spoke of the reward we will
have for our labors, also of progression
and charity. After singing and benedic-
tion, conference adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Afternoon session, after opening exer-
cises, Sister Amelia Orser reported Jen-
son society in good condition. Instru-
mental music from Vernal Relief Society.
Sister Esther Carroll spoke on faith and
tithing and urged each and every one to
live up to the same. Sister Nancy A.
Colton spoke on faith, also spoke of the
company our children should keep, said
mothers should try and make home the
happiest place on earth. She referred to
Sunday School, what a blessing it was.
Singing, “We thank Thee, O God, for a
prophet.
	Brother Reuben S. Collett spoke of
our spreading sunshine or gloom where-
ever we go, said when we have the spirit
to teach we should teach, realized moth-
ers had a great mission, referred to the
morals of young people and of the influ-
ence mothers have over their children.
	Elder William Smart, president of
Uintah Stake spoke of punctuality, would
have been pleased to have met with the
sisters this morning, but it was impos-
sible to do so; he encouraged the sisters
in their work; said “work is the only way
of progression and if each one will work
in her place it will make the load easy for
all. If we neglect our duties we do not
reap the fruits we should.” Many good
things were said by each speaker.
	Conference adjourned for three months
to meet in Naples ward. Singing, “O
Jesus, the Giver.” Benediction by Presi-
dent William Smart.
		PHEBE ANN MERKLEY, Sec.
		TAYLOR STAKE.
	The Relief Society of the Taylor Stake
convened in conference at Raymond, May
22, 1906, at 10 a. m.
	President Hannah M. Russell presided.
After the usual opening exersises, Sister
Annie Wells Cannon of Salt Lake City, a
member of the General Board, addressed
those present; said there are fifty-five
stakes to visit and it takes a number of
sisters to do that work. President Bath-
sheba W. Smith and Secretary Emmeline
B. Wells sent their love to the Relief
Society workers in Canada, and said they
would love to visit you, but it is too far
away.
	The Relief Society has grown from a
membership of eighteen to more than

[Column 3]
thirty-five thousand. Spoke of the order
in which everything is done by this soci-
ety. Gave instructions upon the storing
of grain, and also the nurses’class con-
ducted in Salt Lake. Desired more
nurses to take this course.
	Counselor Kate E. Paxman made a few
remarks upon Relief Society work. A
solo was rendered by Sister Nellie Ben-
nett of Stirling. Reports from all of the
wards were given, showing that they are
accomplishing much good.
	Meeting adjourned until two p. m. by
singing and prayer.
	At the close of the morning session an
officers, (stake and ward) meeting was
held, where special instructions were
given by Sisters Annie W. Cannon, Hannah
M. Russel; and Miriam Y. Hardy, also a
missionary from Salt Lake.
	Afternoon session, President Hannah
M. Russell presided. The usual opening
exercises were conducted. Sister Russel
reported the work and conditions of the
Taylor Stake. Expressed her pleasure in
having President Anthon H. Lund and
Apostle J. H. Smith and Stake
President H. S. Allen present. A solo
was rendered by a member of Raymond
ward. A lecture, “What the Gospel has
done for Woman,” was given by Sister
Alice Magrath. Sister Mariam Y. Hardy
one of the visitors from Salt Lake, was
pleased to be among the people of this
country. Said the chief work of the Re-
lief Society is to look after the sick and
those in need, and comfort those who are
in need of spiritual as well as physical
aid. Advised mothers to make home
pleasant, and not scold too much. Parents
should set a good example before their
children.
	A song was sung by Sister Augusta
Erickson of Stirling.
	Apostle John Henry Smith adressed the
congregation and among other things said
that he had been a student of history and
nowhere in the world do they give such
instructions in morality as are given in
the Chur[-]h of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. Spoke of Relief Society work,
and said we will be judged according to
the way we look after those who need
our help.
	Sister Annie W. Cannon advised those
present to listen to the counsel of Brother
Lund and teach children by example.
	President H. S. Allen also made a few
remarks upon the rearing of children.
	A duet, “God be with us until we meet
again,” was s[-]ng by sisters from Ray-
mond.
	President Hannah M. Russell thanked
all who had assisted in making the con-
ference a success. Conference adjourned
for three months, after singing and bene-
diction.
			GERTRUDE W. CANNON,
						Stake Secretary.
			ALPINE.
	The general quarterly conference of
Alpine stake was held at American Fork,
October 19, 1906, President Rebecca
Standring presiding.
	After the opening exercises, President
Standring made a few remarks of wel-
come. Said “it would be well to review
our work since the organization of the
stake, and see how much we have ad-
vanced. Let us wake up and see what
progress we can make. God has promised


