[Column 1]
		MYSTIFICATIONS.
	A thoroughly typical Scottish gentle-
woman of literary tastes was Miss Stirling
Grahame. This collateral descendant of
Claverhouse was still a young woman
when she delighted and puzzled society
in Scotland with her wonderful imperson-
ations of an old lady. Later in life she
wrote her recollections of these exploits
and made them public property, under
the name of “Mystifications.” “This en-
tertaining, curious and wonderful little
quarto” then actually recorded scenes
that took place when Sir Walter domin-
ated Scotland, England and France, and
Edinburgh was full of cultured, large-
minded, flesh-and-blood society. Lord
Jeffrey, Lord Cockburn, Lord Gillies, were
three jewels, fit to make any circle
shine far and wide. Of the women, Mrs.
Poyser might have truly said “They were
made to match the men,” and yet to bor-
row from Dr. John Brown, “as distinct in
character each from the other, as were
the men—or as is a beech from a birch, a

[Column 2]
lily from a rose.” Before such on-lookers
as these Miss Stirling-Grahame “mysti-
fied” one celebrity after another, by her
personations of Lady Pitlyal, Mrs. Mac-
Allister, Lady Catharine Howard, Mrs.
Ramsay Speldin, Mrs. Arbuthnot of Bal-
wylie. Miss Stirling-Grahame’s plan of
action was to arrive in the middle of an
evening gathering in the dress of an old
lady of a previous time. She would sus-
tain for some hours the character she per-
sonated, and make the most absurd and
eccentric statements about herself and
her family. Later in life when her own
presence was not so remarkable, the
effect of a mystification was electrical.
She actually became the old lady, and
“jest, quick retort, whimsical fancy, the
wildest nonsense, flowed from her lips
with a freedom and truth to nature which
appeared to be impossible in her own per-
sonality.” Be it remembered also that
those who were deceived by these mysti-
fications were no stranger to such devices.
Seventy years ago it was one of the favor-
ite amusements of young girls to dress
up and maintain the character of an older
woman throughout an evening. Miss Stirl-
ing Grahame’s “Mystifications” is the only
considerable record we have of such
pranks. With the “Mystifications” are
published some studies of “worthies,”
one a dog, which are full of spiritual de-
lineation. The most beautiful is “Miss
Menie Trotter,” a prose poem, which the
most superficial and callous could not
scorn.
	The charm of Miss Stirling-Grahame’s
style lies in its naturalness, its veracity,
and its lack of small-mindedness. Its wit
and humor are principally found in the
record of her own sayings. The favorite
example of her wit is her epigram on
cold, wet soil, in which she says, “It
greets a-winter and girns a summer.”
Truly Scottish humor is to be found in the
episode which she professes to recall of
one laird’s refusing to give his youngest
daughter to a suitor, telling him to “tak’
them as God had gi’en them to him, or
want.” With the exception of a trans-
lation of a French treatise on bees,
“Mystifications” was Miss Stirling-
Grahame’s sole contribution to literature.
Though her influence on literature has
been as nothing, the memory of her per-
sonality lives even yet with those who
knew her breezy, benevolent, straightfor-
ward character. Duntrune, her much
loved home, was so situated as to com-
mand both Highlands and Lowlands, and
she herself joined the poetry and wit of the
Highlander to the shrewdness and humor
of the Lowlander. Having outlived most
of the brilliant friends of her youth and
mindle-age, she died in 1877, in the
ninety-eighth year of her age.
	Of a very different type of Scotswoman
was Mrs. Oliphant. The thought of
bandying jests with Sir Walter and Lord
Jeffrey would have made Mrs. Oliphant
shake with fear, and the meetings with
Southey, Sir David Brewster and John
Wilson. which delighted Mrs. Grant,
would have had no charm for Mrs. Oli-
phant, who detested intellectualism.
Early widowed, she had to use the pen,
which had once been a pleasing play-
thing, as a tool to provide sordid bread
and butter for herself and her two boys.
Stern necessity transformed the author of
pretty promising stories into the profes-
sional book-maker, turning out her annual

[Column 3]
quota of so many thousand words. She
had perforce to produce quantity, quality
must be an accident. After long years of
increasing literary activity, Mrs. Oliphant
had still to feel the sting of the critics
whose honesty could not allow them to
praise aught save her industry. She her-
self knew well that lack of fallow times
had prevented the harvest from being
as rich as it should have been, but house-
hold expenses, school and college bills,
would not wait whilst the bread-winner
took time to produce an “Adam Bede,”
or an “Aurora Leigh.”
	Mrs. Oliphant’s fatal gift of versatility,
joined to the ever-present need to keep
things going, have been the causes which
have deprived her of a lasting reputation.
Her pen was so facile that she is said to
have offered to write a whole number of
Blackwood’s Magazine herself. To write
was as easy as to smile, and the pen
which was at ease with the glories of the
Paradiso and the intricacies of Irvingism,
could also discourse of Alphonse Daudet
and Boating on the Thames. When
Mrs. Oliphant wrote “Katie Stewart,”
specialising even in literature was not a
moral obligation; when she finished her
“Annals of a Publishing House,” the era
had arrived when he or she who special-
ises not is lost.
	Had the bread-and-butter problem not
existed, it is possible Mrs. Oliphant might
have had a high place among novel writ-
ers of the second class. With her imagi-
native works we are not concerned here,
but much of Mrs. Oliphant’s best writing
is to be found in works which are not fic-
tion. The informal series of books of
which “The Makers of Florence” and
“Royal Edniburgh” are good examples,
have much graceful literary writing in
them. They are not deep, their readers
must supplement their information by a
study of more accurate authorities, but
such parts as the opening chapters of the
“Makers of Modern Rome” are gems that
one would not give for a wilderness of
dry-as-dust facts. Mrs, Oliphant’s own
particular gift of sympathy had the happy
result of making her a successful biogra-
pher, and she had the satisfaction of mak-
ing popular the lives of such widely dif-
ferent men as Edward Irving, Laurence
Oliphant and Principal Tulloch.
	Mrs. Oliphant’s worth to the generation
which comes after her lies probably, not
in her charm as a novelist, not in her fac-
ility as a biographer, not in her weight as
an historian, not in her beauty of vision
as an expounder of the ways of the Un-
seen. but in her example to women who,
like herself, may be left with a moderate
talent as the only means of carrying on
the battle of life. The story of her own
life has more interest in it than any novel
Mrs. Oliphant wrote. The early life in
London with the shadow of coming
trouble; the removal to Italy and the
death there of the suffering husband; the
pathetic loss of every “woman child;” the
return to Edinburgh. and the kindly help
of the Blackwood family; the permanent
settlement at Windsor, and the Herculean
efforts to keep the ill-fated sons at Eton
and Oxford; the adoption of her nieces
and the care of her helpless brother; the
haven of happy holidays in her native
land and across the channel; all make up
a history with more of sorrow happiness
and trial than might be found in the log
of one who had roamed half the world.
		—English Woman’s Review.


