[Column 1]
to help us, and His power shall preserve
this work. It is too late for our enemies
to enact such scenes as the people passed
through in early days.” Prayed for a
blessing on all that may be said or done
this day.
	The presidents of wards gave their re-
ports in their usual spirited manner,
showing that the wards were in a good,
healthy condition and the sisters alive in
their duties.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry, of the
General Society, addressed the meeting.
“We enjoy a good spirit when we meet
in a beautiful room like this. We are
teaching more every day by what we are
than by what we say. Many are starving
for kind words and sympathy. The Lord
sends the sunshine and the good things
of the earth to all, then let us appreciate
our blessings, even the grandeur of the
mountains and of the beautiful sunset.
Let us see the goodness of God in our
abundant blessings of field and meadow,
of garden and orchard. The Lord has
promised to take care of His people.
When trouble comes we want to push
forward and ask ourselves, Will I stand—
will I support the authorities?” The
speaker had associated with the author-
ities, and had seen the purity of heart and
the beauties of their character. Spoke
of the training of children. It should
begin with their earliest years, when they
are quite small. “Often mothers think
they can break the stubborn will, but you
might as well think of breaking their
backs. Keep your child from evil sights
and sounds, and do not put pictures on
your walls that will lead to evil in the
minds of your children to bring forth fruit
in after years.”
	Singing, “’Mid scenes of confusion and
creature complaint.”
	Sister Clayton. of Provo, said the train-
ing of children should commence at their
birth. “If they are neglected in those
early days they are almost sure to go
astray when they grow older. The little
spirits are hard to control, but we cannot
treat them with harshness. Life is too
short for mothers to get cross. The con-
trol of the child is left often entirely to
the mother, the fathers shirk the respon-
sibility, and God will judge them for this
neglect. We should thank God for trials,
for it keeps us in the line of our duty.
The path may be thorny, but it is
straight.”
	President Stephen L. Chipman had
been pleased with the reports and the
remarks made. The teaching was
excellent, and should be of lasting
benefit to all. We should appreciate our
conditions and acknowledge the hand of
the Lord in all our circumstances in
life and be satisfied.
	President A. J. Evans made a few re-
marks. His heart was in the cause, and
he felt the sisters were doing their duty,
and prayed God to bless them in their la-
bors.
	After singing and benediction, confer-
ence adjourned until 2 o’clock.

[Column 2]
		Afternoon session.
	After the opening exercises, more re-
ports were given by the presidents of
wards, showing unity and a desire to do
their duty.
	An address was given by stake mission-
ary Sina Chipman on “The use of theol-
ogy to Relief Society workers.”
	Song, “I need Thee every hour,” by
Sister Prudence Storrs.
	Extracts from Pres. James H. Clark’s
address: This Church in its simplicity is
wonderful. It reaches to the inmost
soul of man and woman. You have re-
ceived inspiration and instruction today
that is priceless. Teach your children to
be sincere in their prayers, and make it
a habit to go to the Lord for His protec-
tion and guidance. Spoke of Religion
Classes being neglected, the children in-
dulge in too much pleasure. The Prim-
ary Association is neglected, and we have
no more diligent teachers than our Prim-
ary workers. The Lord is fully guiding
the destiny of this people. His care and
protection are over His Prophet and our
leaders, and this work will go on triumph-
ant to the end.
	Counselor Annie C. Hindley bore testi-
mony to the Holy Spirit. Let us take
time to serve the Lord, and not separate
in the morning until we have called our
family together and committed them to
the care of the Lord. The mother can
attend to this duty when the father is
called away to his daily labor. Let us
uphold and sustain our Prophet and those
in authority over us, for it is by prophecy
and revelation that we were organized.
	Sister Bennett, of Provo, bore testi-
mony that the Spirit of the Lord was
here today, and could fancy that the an-
gels were among us. Urged the young
mothers to come forward and join the
Relief Society and make their name and
influence felt for good,
	President Standring made closing re-
marks. Had taken pleasure and satisfac-
tion in the influence of the spirit that
had prevailed in the conference. Felt
to bless the sisters and their families, and
urged them to let it be “the kingdom of
God or nothing.” May God bless you all.
Amen.
	After singing and prayer, conference
was adjourned for three months.
