[Column 1]
for musical and other talent for the pur-
pose of getting up a concert on the night
of the 6th, which proved quite a success,
realizing quite a sum, which went to the
fund for assisting sailors’ widows aud
orphan chileren.
	On the morning of the ninth day very
early, before daylight, a great many were
bustling about; some were rearranging
their luggage, as they were to land at
Queenstown. All were early on deck to
look at the land scenery, which was
grand. Next day all were up again extra
early. This was the tenth day, and we
were near our destination. Ten o’clock
a. m. we landed at Liverpool, and then
we realized how far we were from
home. While at the depot we were met
by two Elders, Elders Thomas and Fair-
banks, who kindly helped us with our
luggage. These two brothers were filling
a mission in Liverpool. They guided us
to a hotel called Thomas’ hotel, man-
aged by a Mrs. Hiles, a very lady-like
woman with whom I conversed a number
of times on the principles that brought us
so far from home.
	Well, we are in Liverpool now, and
this is Sunday, so away we go to hunt up
No. 10, Holly Road, to meet with a little
band of Saints who are the salt of the
earth, differing from the masses all around
them; and very likely most much mis-
understood. After the afternoon meeting
an Elder took us to a lovely park close
by, where the green grass, the flowers and
the variety of ferns reminded me of the
place of my childhood, the little Guernsey
Island. At the next meeting we were in-
troduced to Sister Price and Brother and
Sister Hughes and others.
	Leaving Liverpool next morning we
took the train to Cardiff, Wales, and
then to Llantrissant, ten miles from Car-
diff, and stopping there one day and night
we received the inspiration that we were
close to the Miskin manor and Miskin vil-
lage; this we were anxious to see, as the
Miskin family are naturally proud of this
ancient place, which is very picturesque,
situated so that it commands a lovely
view of the surrounding country. Just as
we entered the gate we met a son of the
present owner and occupant, Judge Gwil-
ym Williams, this son of his honor the
judge, politely showed us through the
house and grounds and exhibited many
curiosities, rare shrubs and trees, some of
which had been transplanted from India,
also some of the heads and horns of ani-
mals he had killed while hunting in In-
dia; he then allowed us to walk around
the gardens, and pointed out a bathing
place where the Romans used to bathe.
	After  partaking of lunch with part of
the family, the lady, who was the mother
of this young man, and evidently a church
worker, interested us in her work and
told us how much had been realized by a
church fair. I wish I remembered the
amount, but it was hundreds of pounds
they had received from a church fair that
had been held on these grounds. The
funds were to be used for erecting a
church in the near future, to be built near
by on land donated by her or the family.
This lady’s son expressed the wish and
anticipation of going to the Rocky Moun-
tain region, and we hope, when he does,
he will meet with the same courtesy and
frendliness that he showed us, and I do
not doubt for a moment but that he will.
	After this delightful time we were

[Column 2]
driven to the station and had only a few
moments to wait for the train going to
Weymouth, where we again took boat
for my native island of Guernsey, which
I had left in 1840, for Newark, New Jer-
sey, where I lived two years before I was
married, and I might add here, that at
that time the restored and complete gos-
pel was unknown to either of us.
	Now on the little Guernsey island again
and this is the 15th of June. After taking
the train (not a buss as formerly) we ar-
rived at the seaport and parish of St.
Sampson’s. We found Mr. Stranger’s
sister, who took us through the house
owned by my dear father and the house
where I was born. Opposite is the Wes-
leyan Methodist chapel and Sunday
school building, also, where I had taught
after my father had left the church of
England. This lady conversed with us
for some time, then took us to some
friends, the Dorey’s, and others; then we
took a run down to see the dear old
church where I had been christened while
in infancy. This church was built in 1111,
the inside has been renovated, but the
outside is the same as built at that an-
cient date. The few that knew my dear
father were pleased to see us, and when
asked if they remembered him, exclaimed,
“I seem to see his dear, cheerful face
now while I am speaking,” proving to us
that he was not forgotten. His remains
now lie in the cemetery of St. John, Kan-
sas, the place where we embraced the
Gospel. When my father visited my only
sister in New Jersey, she reluctantly al-
lowed him to come and see us, then old
and feeble, but as it was his great desire
to see me and spend  his last days with
us, she parted with him, but it was only
for a short time he stayed with us, as a
few weeks afterwards he had a paralytic
stroke, from which he never recovered,
liying but a short time, closing his eyes,
he again took another journey to the
great beyond, in the year 1888. He had
filled his mission, having been as a father
and mother most of the time to his moth-
erless children. Well, I must not dwell
too long on these sacred spots, so we will
wish good-bye to little Guernsey.
		(To be Continued.)


