R. S. LOS ANGELES, CAL.
	Yesterday was a “Red Letter Day” for
us in the Los Angeles branch, for in reor-
ganizing the Relief Society an opportuni-
ty was afforded us of showing our appre-
ciation for the labors and regard for the
sterling qualities and character of Sister
Eliza Woollacott who has been our Presi-
dent for nine and one-half years, ever
since the Relief Society was organized
here. She is in her seventy-sixth year
and of late has not been feeling adequate
to the task of presiding and attending to
the various duties of the Relief Society,
and so requested the Branch and Mission
Presidency to release her and let some-
one of younger years assume the
duties of the office she has so long and
faithfully filled. The presiding brethren
were loth to part with her services, but
met with the society yesterday when Mrs.
Woollacott was honorably released with
her Counselors, Sisters Harriet Rand and
Freda Hedberg, and the following named
sisters sustained as the Presidency of the
Los Angeles Relief Society, i. e., Margaret


Jacobson, Freda Hedberg and Isabelle
Anderson, with Lura Lorbeer secretary
and treasurer, and Jennie Riggs assistant
secretary and treasurer.
	Appropriate and feeling remarks were
made by Prest. Joseph E. Robinson and
Prest. H. C. Jacobson, each of whom
bore testimony to the integrity, generosi-
ty and faithfulness of Sister Woollacott
and how they had regarded her as the
“Mother of the Los Angeles Branch” for
her importunities with the Presidency of
the Church were largely responsible for
bringing the Elders to this city, and
her home was where the first L. D. S.
meetings were held and afterwards the
“Woollacott Hall” was tendered to the
Saints, free of charge, by one of her sons,
where we met for several years. Several
of the sisters followed in a similar vein
expressing their love for the sisters re-
leased and for the incoming officers as
well. Sister Woollacott gave us her tes-
timony and blessing as also did Sister
Jacobson, her most worthy successor.
	In the evening we met at the residence
of Prest. Jacobson where a banquet was
tendered Sister Woollacott and her Coun-
selors by the Relief Society, and some
forty sat down to the sumptuous repast
prepared by clever and loving hands. The
decorations were red and green, carna-
tions and smilax. Songs, sentiments and
recitations made a pleasant program, and
after the dinner was served, Prest. Joseph
E. Robinson, in behalf of the society,
presented Sister Woollacott with a beauti-
ful silver basin fittingly engraved and of
much beauty. Our dear sister was so
overcome with the eulogy paid her and
the beautiful present that she could not
express her feelings for grateful tears.
We will remember it long and treasure it
in our hearts as one of the occasions
when our Heavenly Father poured out
His Spirit in such abundance and sweet-
ness that our faith is renewed and our
courage built up, and we are determined
to keep pace with our more favored sis-
ters in the Wards and Stakes of Zion and
be prepared with them for the coming of
the Bridegroom.
	Nov. 22, 1906.		M. A. R.


