RE-ORGANIZATION AT BRIGHTON.

	ON Thursday Jan. 14, 1897 at 1.30 p. m.
a meeting was held at Brighton in this
County at the Branch meeting house for
the purpose of re-organizing the Relief
Society on account of the death of the Presi-
dent, Sister Mary Ann Hazen. Sister
Ottilie Schoenfeld who had been first
counselor to Sister Hazen presided. Sing-
ing “Earth with her ten thousand flowers;”
prayer by Bishop Frederick Schoenfeld; sing-
ing “Guide us O, thou great Jehovah.”
The Bishop made a few remarks in which
he spoke of the growth of the ward, and how
Brighton was divided now making seven
wards instead of one. Sister Schoenfeld
spoke for a few minutes, and then Pres’t.
M. Isabella Horne addressed the meeting
and alluded in a very sisterly and affection-
ate way to Sister Hazen, and of her energy
in attending the 14th ward meetings, and
how punctual she had been; and gave good
counsel to the sisters, exhorting them to be
faithful and diligent and pray earnestly for
the Holy Spirit to guide them.
	Sister E. B. Wells followed, dwelling
upon the advantages of the Relief Society
and the great work as a whole; thought
many did not realize what a magnificent
work had been done all over the world
through the small beginning; expressed
her love and appreciation of Sister Hazen.
	Elder E. John Nuttall made excellent
remarks upon the great charitable and
philanthropic work of the Society as a
whole, and explanations in regard to re
organizing. Bishop Schoenfeld spoke very
kindly and considerately of the sisters who
had labored in the Society there.
	Pres’t. Horne was called upon to preside
during the election of officers, and Sister
E. B. Wells to act as Secretary. Elder
Nuttall read the articles of Association, and
the result of the election was Sister Ottilie
Schoenfeld, President; Lydia A. Brown and
Elizabeth Sherwood, Vice-Presidents;
Agnes M. Jones, Secretary; Camilla Alex-
ander, Treasurer; Trustees, Hortense M.
Jones, Sarah Gedge, Ada E. Walk. The
following resolution was adopted.
	“RESOLVED, That the President be, and
is, hereby authorized and instructed to make
application to all persons whomsoever hold-
ing the legal title to real property belong-
ing to the Relief Society, to make and de-
liver good or sufficient deed or deeds of all
such property to Hortense M. Jones, Sarah
Gedge and Ada Walk.”
	After the organization was completed,
remarks were made by President Horne
upon the Prophet Joseph, President John
Taylor and the commencement of the work
in the early days, and exhorted each one
holding a position in the Society to mag-
nify her calling, and not envy any other or
intrude upon another’s rights, illustrating
her remarks by the humility of Joseph

[Column 2]
Smith the prophet when he came to Toron-
to, Canada, in the early days, and the
respect he showed to the presiding author-
ities in that branch, and comparing it with
a Dr. Allen who came there previous and
had shown no regard to the position occupi-
ed by John Taylor (afterwards President of
the Church) then President of that branch:
closed with a blessing upon the Society and
prayers for its progress.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde made some
pertinent remarks, urging the young wo-
men to take hold of the work and gave ex-
cellent advice, encouraging every one of
them to be enrolled as members.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon made some
excellent remarks in appreciation of the
benefit resulting from being active in the
Relief Society.
	Sister Camilla C. Cobb was delighted to
see the sisters of Brighton ward and spoke
admiringly of the work done by the Relief
Society in love and charity.
	The Bishop expressed his appreciation of
the visit of the sisters and Brother Nuttall.
The Doxology was sung and meeting was
dismissed with prayer.


[Column 1]
