LULA'S LETTER.

RICHFIELD, Sevier Stake, Utah,
			Friday, Sep, 18, 1896.
Editor Woman's Exponent,
	Dear Aunt Em:—Yesterday, as you are
aware, Sister M. A. Freeze and myself
came by appointment to attend the Relief
Society Stake Conference here.
	Today we have had one of the best con-
ferences I have had the privilege of attend-
ing for a long time. Verbal reports were
given of nine out of fifteen branches belong-
ing to this Stake R. S.
	The sister who reported the Salina branch
said, among other excellent things, that
each month their R. S. appoints certain
members to visit the meetings held by the
Young Ladies and Primary Associations
during the month.
	That struck me as being an example
worthy of imitation by every branch of
our R. S. everywhere. What better work
can our older sisters find than visiting and
encouraging our young folks and our little
ones, and helping the officers who labor so
hard to keep these associations in active
progression? To be sure, in our R. S.
meetings advice is often given to the effect
that it is a good thing for mothers and all
the older sisters to make such visits to the
younger associations; but the advice is not
so often taken as it should be, and would
be, if such appointments as are made in
Salina were made general.
	Sister E. Ogilvie, of Richfield, told us
that some time ago she felt impressed to
send the EXPONENT to a missionary in
England, to be given wherever he should
think best.  She spoke of this to the sisters
in her ward; some of them gave five cents
each to the enterprise, some ten, and the
paper had been sent and was doing much
good. This example might also be follow-
ed with profit by others.
	Good reports were given by all the sis-
ters who spoke;  the best of advice was
offered by President Bean and her counsel-
ors;  the work of the secretary shows great
care and efficiency, and we feel well satis-
fied with the present condition of this
branch of the Relief Society.
	An informal officers meeting was called
at President Bean’s house after the confer-
ence.   Some important questions were here
brought forth, talked over and disposed of
as effectually as Sister Freeze and myself
felt authorized and able to settle them.
				Sincerely yours,
