LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	HELD in the 14th ward Assembly Hall,
Jan. 8 ’97, Counselor Elizabeth Webb pre-
siding until President Horne arrived.
Singing “Once more we come before our
Lord;” prayer by Sister Clara C. Cannon;
continued by singing “All hail the new
born year;” minutes of last meeting read
and accepted. Pres’t. M. Isabella Horne
wished all the sisters a Happy New Year.
Last year we lost four of our good, true,
faithful saints, Sister Ellen C. Clawson,
Sister Helen Mar Whitney, Sister Hannah
Rawlins Pres’t. Draper and Sister Mary A.
Hazen Pres’t. of Brighton Society. “Let
us put our trust in our Father in heaven,
for we are all weak and have to wage war
against sin.” Spoke of our late conference,
said we had an excellent conference.
“Satan gathers his forces here where the
priesthood is; he has great power, places
stumbling blocks in our way and evil sug-
gestions, but everything good comes from
our Father. We are in the midst of trials
today, but God has given a key-word to be
faithful and humble in prayer. Let us
look over our actions each night and thus
strengthen ourselves day by day. We
must serve Him and keep His command-
ments; if we fail in this life we will fail in
the next; He scourges every son and every
daughter whom He receives. I can testify
that Joseph was a prophet of God, and his
blood was shed as a testimony to the world
of the truth of his mission. I desire to be
faithful to the calling where unto we have
been called.”
	Pres’t. Zina D. H. Young said “It is
over twenty-seven years since Pres’t. Brig-
ham Young organized these meetings and I
am pleased to see you, my sisters; we come
here and learn to love each other, and feast
on the good words of peace and salvation.

[Column 2]
I received a testimony of the truth of this
work before I was baptized and I have
never doubted its truth.” Spoke of the
falling away in the days of Kirtland, when
six of the twelve forsook Joseph. “O, my
sisters I have seen the sorrow of those who
have fallen by the way; the results of deny-
ing the faith are so terrible. I feel to bear
my testimony to the truth of this work, and
the truth of celestial marriage. I thank
my heavenly Father that the light has been
given; it is nothing to die if we have been
faithful. Keep free from finding fault and
you shall be blessed. May we meet here
for years and years to come, and be faithful
in all things.”
	Sister Laura Miner said, “I can say I
have never doubted the truth of this Gos-
pel.” Spoke of the Relief Society work in
Logan and made other encouraging re-
marks.
	Another sister bore an excellent testi-
mony to the truth of the Gospel. Sister
Margaret Brown spoke of her labors in the
Temple and desired to go on in such glori-
ous principles. Sister Julia Samson spoke
of the many things we had to make us re-
joice, and hoped we would be stronger in
another year. Sister Caroline C. R. Wells,
bore her testimony that the Gospel was true
and she had never doubted. A sister in
the congregation also bore a strong testi-
mony. Sister Nunn bore her testimony to
the truth of this work and the power of the
priesthood, and also the power of dreams.
	The sisters sang “Guide us O, thou
Great Jehovah.”
	Sister E. B. Wells thought it beautiful to
hear the sisters bear their testimonies,
spoke of the WOMEN’S EXPONENT; Pres’t.
Young was anxious that the sisters should
sustain their own paper. The women of
of this church should not let this paper fail,
spoke earnestly and impressively; spoke
about the silk, said the Commission was
appointed and twenty-five cents a pound
bounty is sure to you on every pound; also
spoke, of the kindergarten, also that we
should pray that the right one
should be sent down to Washington as
Senator. This matter concerns us; let us
pray about this matter that the Lord will
choose him. “I pray the Lord will bless
us.”
	Pres’t. Horne made closing remarks.
Urged the sisters to sustain the EXPONENT,
read from it at their meetings and sustain
it. Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Singing “Come let us anew;” benediction
L. D. Alder.
		L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.

	Minutes of Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meet-
ing held in the 14th ward Hall, Jan. 23,
1897, Sister Lydia D. Alder presiding.
Opened by singing “Come, come ye
Saints;" prayer by Sister Julia C. Howe
singing “Welcome best of all good meet
ings.” Sister Alder made some remarks,
urging the sisters to faithfulness, if we only
proved humble and prayerful. She hoped
the sisters that were wont to preside would
find that we had enjoyed a goodly portion
of the Holy Spirit.
	A sister in the congregation bore a faith-
ful testimony, hoped we would be careful
in what we had to say. Sister Morris sang
“Redeemer of Israel, ” also bore her testi-
mony; she had never seen the day she did
not rejoice in this work.
	Dr. E. S. Barney also made some re-
marks, said she knew this was the work of


God and the Spirit of the Lord was with
us, we should do better every day, if we
could not hear we could read and think,
thereby obtaining the Spirit of God.
Read some remarks made by Henry Ward
Beecher.
	Sister Mary P. Silver bore her testimony,
said she had always known this was the
work of God. A Sister in the congrega-
tion bore a testimony to the truth of what
Sister Barney had said, also spoke of bless-
ngs we derived from prayer.
	Sister Nunn spoke of her labors in the
Temple, of seeing her aunt whom she was
working for, and the many blessings she
was the recipient of day by day, also the
blessings derived by fasting and prayer.
	A sister in the congregation bore a very
faithful testimony, said she felt to rejoice in
the Gospel.
	Sister Young felt to rejoice in the Gos-
pel, had been in the Church forty-nine
years, desired us to pray for her sister who
was sick, prayed the Lord to bless us all.
	Sister Sarah Phelps also spoke of the
truth of the Gospel in this our day, she felt
we ought to pray to the Lord more ferver-
ently than we had ever done before.
	Sister Silver sang “How firm a founda-
tion.” Sister Wilkins felt pleased that she
had the privilege of meeting with us.
	Sister Mina Hardy bore a faithful testi-
mony. Another sister felt to rejoice but
felt she had a testimony to bear, and knew
we could call down the blessings of heaven
if we would only ask for them.
	Sister Mary A. Hardy also bore a faithful
testimony.
	Sister Held knew if she did not say a few
words she would feel condemned. Singing
“We thank Thee O, God.” Sister B. W.
Smith knew the Prophet Joseph was a true
prophet; she asked the Lord to bless our
young sisters who had spoken in our midst,
prayed for our aged prophet Brother Wood-
ruff.
	Pres’t Horne having arrived made some
remarks, was pleased to see so many
present, thought there was signs of a re-
vival, thought we should have to retire to
the Assembly Hall; she had often thought
of the Lord’s bringing forth this work
through his servants and handmaidens,
that the Lord knew whom he was choosing.
“Let us set an example before our young
sisters.” Sister Horne said she had been
attending a meeting ever since eleven
o’clock this morning. She hoped the sis-
ters would continue to come to these meet-
ings. The first patriarchal blessing she re-
ceived she was told she would have a great
deal of sickness which she had passed
through; she also had a letter read, after
which the meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Singing Doxology; benediction by
Sister E. S. Barney.
	MARTHA BARROW, Sec. pro. tem.


