EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE secretaries of Stake organizations of
the Relief Society are hereby officially noti-
fied to send full and complete reports for
the year 1896—not later than Feb. 20,1897
without fail—to Mrs. E. B. Wells Constitu-
tion Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	IN the middle verse of the poem entitled
“The Year of Jubilee ” in Jan. 1, of this
year, the last word in the last lines hould be
seers instead of Love, and would as you
perceive rhyme with pioneers. It is simply
a typographical error.
	AS yet no complaint has reached us as to
the inefficiency of any of the ladies elected
to any office at the last election in Novem-
ber, when women were candidates on equal
terms with men. To be sure there were
but few nominated and fewer still elected,
yet there were enough to prove the fact
that women are competent to hold positions
of trust and emolument;and men are generous 
enough to admit their good judgment and 
capabilities. So far the women seem per-
fectly able to hold their own equally as
well as men on any question that comes
before the Assembly in either house. In
Committee work they are quite as compe-
tent we are told and will certainly as the
women of Wyoming and Colorado have
settled any doubts as to their being either
too weak, or too emotional to take part in
public affairs of the state or the nation.
	IN the evening, Jan. 19, the Y. L. of the
7th ward met at the residence of Mrs. Claire
L. Clawson. Her handsome parlors were
well filled with the young ladies of the
ward. The exercises were similar to those
of other meetings though this was a special
session; the roll was answered with beauti-
ful sentiments many of them original, an
essay on the Apocrypha by Edith Mc-
Lellan, was a part of the guide work;
readings from Eugene Field by Kate
Thomas; Lyle Jones, Laura Foster, Lillie
Webb and Alice Lambert sang a quartette,
which was very charmingly rendered,
“Waiting and Watching for me;” Poem
by Eugene Field, Rose Wallace; some
other exercises were creditably given and
Sisters Lambert and E. B. Wells addressed

[Column 2]
the meeting. Refreshments were served
by the fair hostess and her graceful young
helpers, and the company were treated to
views (through a stereoscope) brought by
Mrs. Clawson from the continent when she .
visited the holy land with Sister Eliza R.
Snow. The evening was a very pleasant
one as well as the afternoon, and we trust
profitable to all, as well as helpful to the
work.
	ON Tuesday Jan. 19, 1897 was the
annual meeting of the Seventh ward
Relief Society, held in the vestry of the
meeting house, Mrs. Mary Alice Lambert
presiding. After the usual exercises of
singing and prayer minutes of previous
annual meeting were read and accepted,
also the Treasurer’s report for the year.
Remarks were made by the President and
Mrs. M. Isabella Horne, President of the
Relief Society of this Stake; President
Zina D. H. Young of the General Relief
Society, and the Vice-President B. W.
Smith, Secretary E. B. Wells, Mrs. E. S.
Taylor, General President of the Y. L. M.
I. A., and Mrs. Horne’s Counselors Annie
Taylor Hyde and Clara C. Cannon also
Mrs. Lambert’s Counselors and Bishop
Wm. Thorne. The subjects touched upon
were faith, integrity to the Gospel, humility
obedience, early experiences in the Church,
the signs of the times, storing of grain,
home industries, the WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
and sustaining it as the official organ of
the Relief Society and the record
of woman’s work. After the meeting was
dismissed all repaired to the tables prepared
where Bishop Thorne asked a blessing, and
a bounteous supper was partaken of and .
conversation became general. Such annual
gatherings are productive of great good and
promote a spirit of sociability and union.


