MARY HOUSTON KIMBALL SMITH.

	Sister M. H. Kimball, the subject of
this brief sketch, was born in Jackson

[Column 2]
Township, Stark Co., Ohio near Canton,
September 11, 1818, and was the daughter
of James and Mary (Ettleman) Houston,
who joined the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints in 1830. James Houston
the father of Sister M. H. Kimball, was
intimately acquainted with the Prophet
Joseph Smith in the early days, as also
were his family; he was a member of
Zion’s camp in 1833 and was always faith-
ful to the cause of truth; his daughter
Mary was baptized with her parents in that
early day and continued faithful to the time
of her death, which occurred Thursday,
Dec. 24, 1896 from paralysis, with which
she had been afflicted, having had a stroke
on Monday, Dec. 21st, from which she
never recovered so as to be able to speak.
She was tenderly cared for by her two sis-
ters, Susan Mitchell and Catharine Alex-
ander and their children; Sister Kimball
had no family of her own, and had conse-
quently lived many years alone.
	With her father’s family when a child,
she went from Ohio to Missouri, enduring
all the hardships the saints suffered in those
perilous times, and from there with them
to Commerce, Illinois, afterwards Nauvoo,
until the saints were driven from that
beautiful city.
	Mary remembered the occurrences of
Missouri with childish accuracy, and has
often recounted to the writer some of the
tragedies that transpired in her own
vicinity.
	While living in Nauvoo Brother Houston
died, and his widow and family came out
with the saints who left in 1846, but
previous to this Mary had been sealed in
the new and everlasting covenant to Joseph
Smith for eternity, and to Heber C. Kim-
ball for time, and came in the Kimball fam-
ily from Nauvoo.
	After the death of President Kimball
Mary resided for some years in the Seven-
teenth ward in this City, then exchanged
her property. or sold out and went to live
in Pleasant Grove, Utah Co. where she
continued to reside until last spring, when
she became strongly impressed it was her
duty to work for her dead and came to this
City solely for that purpose, and devoted
her time and energies ever since to that
work in the Salt Lake Temple.
	In Nauvoo Sister Mary had the oppor-
tunity of being closely associated with the
Apostles in a direct way, by waiting upon
upon and ministering to them, at the home
of Brother Jos. C. Kingsbury who lived
over the Tithing office, and where the
authorities of the Church were in the habit
of dining every day while the Temple was
being finished. In this case Mary was a
veritable Martha, as she was engaged in
the very troublesome occupation of cooking
and serving dinners, and if there is honor
in waiting upon the servants of the Lord
she will have a large share. The writer
recalls the fact that at one of these dinners
were assembled nine apostles and two of the
Presiding Bishops, not counting Elder
Kingsbury himself, but cannot now be
quite sure of all their names. That parti-
cular occasion is remembered by the writer
as a wonderful spiritual as well as temporal
feast
	In Winter Quarters, on the Missouri river
Mrs. Houston died of scurvy as did scores
of others, for lack of proper food, and now
after so long a period only two of the family
of James and Mary Houston who were
among the first to come forward and re-


ceive the Gospel are still living, though
there are a large number of grandchildren
and great-grandchildren who are members
of the Church, for which they endured
hardships and trials.
	Sister Mary had many excellent qualities;
she was full of integrity to the Gospel and
true as steel to her friends and to the cause
of truth; she was a woman of strong char-
acter, conscientious, and possessed that
fidelity both to the truth and to her
friends, which recommends itself in the
champions of religion, liberty, or the home.


