SPRING CITY RELIEF SOCIETY.

Dear Sister Wells:
	ACCORDING to promise I will give a
brief report of our Relief Society in Spring
City. The Society is in fairly good run-
ning order, the sisters are not only meeting
goers but workers, always ready to respond
to every call made by our Pres’t. Last
year we called committees to visit the home
of each member for the purpose of gather-
ing wool, or means with which to purchase
it; we gathered considerable, and the sis-
ters washed and cleansed it, and the sisters
carded it, and the sisters gathered and we
had the wheels and reels and had an old-
fashioned spinning bee in our ward meeting
house, and got the spinning done. The
yarn was washed also by the sisters and
taken to a sister in the ward who colored
some of it and wove it; when completed
we had 75 yds. of lovely cloth, half of
which was white for under clothing, the
other red and black check for dresses. The
cloth was 37 inches wide. We have made
four large quills and have stocking yarn,
all of which has been given to those most
in need, and we have wool gathered this
year to work up for next season and all
have our own home duties to attend to, and
could not gather wool and get it into cloth
the same season, as we have to wait until
the sheep are shorn and that is late in the
spring. There are many who have no
wool but they all give something, and the
means gathered on that day is all turned
into wool and each sister is credited with
the amount in wool. We gather wheat in
the same way; the sisters take a team and
go to every house and in that way we have
gathered 50 bushels in a day; all are ready
to give something in order to have their
names enrolled as a wheat donor, much can
be accomplished in that way and no person
will ever feel any poorer, in fact they will
have more instead, probably not of this
world’s goods, but a greater flow of the
Spirit of the Lord, and His blessings will
ever attend those who feed the hungry and
clothe the destitute. How blessed we are
to be engaged in so noble a work as the Re-
lief Society! and may we all press onward
until we attain to that perfection which is
within the reach of all who will strive for
it. Ever praying for the welfare of Zion
and the success of our valuable paper, (the
EXPONENT.)
