IN  [-]EMORIAM.
	ELIZABETH TUFFLFY CUMMINGS, daughter of
Peter and Jane Tuffley was born in Chedworth,
Gloucestershire, England, Jan. 8, 1822; died in
Salt Lake City Utah on Nov. 7, 1896.
	She left a fond father and mother, brothers
and sisters also many tried friends to cast her lot
with the people of God. She emigrated in 1852
in Isaac Haight’s company, was married to J.
W. Cummings in 1853, was the mother of two
children, one son and one daughter.
	Surely she could say farewell all earthly honors
for they were as dross compared with her
religion. Late years from sickness she has not
been able to attend meetings which was a trial.
She has fought the good fight, kept the faith and
gone to receive the reward which her long years
of suffering and sacrifice entitle her to, and
with joy meet her husband and friends that have
preceded her.
	May she be found worthy of the blessing she so
much desired in our Father’s Kingdom, for it
surely can be said she died the death of the
righteous.
M. A. HARDY.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To the memory of our beloved sister, Jane
Trelfall Gardner who departed this life Dec. 20,
1896. Sister Gardner was born at Lytham,
Lancashire, England, July 5, 1828; baptized Dec.
3, 1849 by Elder George D. Watt, was a member
of the Preston branch of the church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints, emigrated from Eng-
land in Feb, 1855, and was married on board of
the ship Siddons to Brother James Gardner;
she crossed the plains in Captain Ballantyne’s
company, and arrived in Salt Lake City, Sep. 25,
1855; came to American Fork Oct. 23 of the same
year where she resided constantly until the day
of her death.
	She has been a member of the Relief Society
from its first organization, and a faithful energetic
teacher for more than twenty years, liberal and
earnest in all her labors, and a true, humble,
Latter day Saint. She leaves a loving husband
with whom she lived peaceful and happy in a
long married life; also six children, two sons and
four daughters who mourn the loss of a kind,
patient, self-sacrificing mother, and a host of
neighbors and friends who esteem her very high-
ly, and
	WHEREAS, It has pleased our Heavenly Father
to remove from our midst our beloved sister and
take her to a higher sphere, therefore be it,
	RESOLVED, That we consider it a just tribute to
her memory to say that we sincerely regret the
removal of our sister, and we mourn her loss as a
faithful and willing worker, and desire to emulate
her labors and devotion to the cause of truth, and,
	RESOLVED, That we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and the sorrowing children,
and we pray our Heavenly Father to let the divine
influence of His Holy Spirit rest upon them, that
they may realize that though she has gone from
their sight for a moment, yet she enjoys the rest
t


of the faithful, and will come forth to a glorious
immortality. And,
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon the records of our Relief Society,
also a copy be sent to the bereaved family, and
one to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
					ELLEN D. CLARKE,
					EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
					KAREN NIELSEN,
								Committee.


