OBITUARY.

AFTER an illness of thirteen months, Mary
Johannah Christensen departed this life on Nov.
3rd, 1896, at Farmington, Davis Co.
	She has suffered much affliction for the past
26 years, though at times she would regain her
health sufficiently to attend to her household
duties and visit among her children.
	She was born at Lolland, Denmark, the 21st of
May, 1827. In her younger days she had a
strong, robust constitution and did very hard
work. Her father died when she was quite
young and she being the eldest of the family it
became necessary for her to labor for the support
of the family.
	In the year 1854 she was married to Mads
Christensen, and two years later she with her
husband embraced the Gospel and soon after
started on their long, tedious journey to Utah.
She was the only one of her father’s house that
received the truth of the Latter-day work, and
when she bade them farewell she never saw
them again in the flesh. They were very loath to
part with her and tried many times to persuade


her to remain with them and renounce her new
faith; but this she would not do, and after leav-
ing them in the hands of the Lord and bearing a
strong testimony to them, she left her native
country in the Spring of 1857.
She crossed the plains in the hand cart com-
pany, assisting her husband to draw the hand
cart containing her infant babe of a few months,
their provisions and the necessary clothing for
the journey. She plodded along through the hot
sand and in the scorching sun, of the long days of
summer without a murmur and when the com-
pany stopped a moment to rest their weary limbs,
she would nurse her infant at her breast and then
place it back in the hand cart and be ready to
start on again at the word march. This she did
for weeks when suddenly she was taken down
with a severe form of the cholera which came
very nearly taking her life; and as she lay on
the rough couch prepared for her in the very
throes of death, her husband called in the Elders
bearing the priesthood of God to lay hands upon
her head and rebuke the disease and the hand of
death, which was done and she was healed in-
stantly. She soon recovered her strength and
continued her onward march to the valley where
they arrived in Sep. 1857.
She passed through the hardships connected
with the settling of a new country. She was left
to provide for her family twice while her husband
was called on missions, and always labored
faithfully and devotedly for the cause of truth.
She was the mother of six children, three sons
and three daughters, they all survive her. May
they ever be an honor to her memory and be as
well prepared to go hence when the summons
comes to them. She was indeed a devoted
mother and a faithful companion and friend to the
needy.
Her faith in the Gospel was unwavering; she
died as she had lived, true to her covenants.
May she rest in peace until the resurrection
morn when we hope to be with her throughout
eternity.
A. C. M.


[Column 1]
