ANNUAL CONVENTION N-A. W. S. A.

	LEAVING Salt Lake City (via) U. P.
R. R. at 7 a. m. Jan. 24, 1897—we arrived
in Des Moines, Iowa, after two days
journey at or just after midnight, ready for
the opening of the Convention at 10 a. m.
Jan. 26, and answered present when Utah
was called much to the surprise of the dele-
gates, and especially the delegate from
Idaho, Mrs. Woods the writer’s own
daughter. Of course it made a little stir in
meeting when Miss Anthony called us to
the stand and insisted on introducing us
as mother and daughter from enfranchised
states. Utah is accustomed to incidents of
a similar nature, but the Idaho delegate was
not and was somewhat timid, it being her
first visit to a Convention of the N-A. W.
S.A. though she has worked hard for the
ballot in various ways, and made many
speeches in her own state.
	Des Moines did herself proud in welcom-
ing the Convention, and every attention
was shown dear Miss Anthony and her fol-
lowing that could make them feel welcome.
Governor Francis M. Drake on behalf of
the State of Iowa and Mayor John McVicar
on behalf of the City of Des Moines, and Dr.
H. O. Breeden on behalf of the Churches,
Mrs. Mattie Locke Macomber for the
various woman’s clubs, and Mrs. Adelaide
Ballard State President W. S. A. Iowa,
each of these made speeches welcoming the
women to Iowa and Des Moines. So
mmense was the crowd on that evening
Wednesday, January 27, that an overflow
meeting was held in the rear hall, and hun-
dreds went away who could not get stand-
ing room in either the large or the smaller
hall. Thus you see friends, interest is
increasing in the work of equal suffrage.
	It was this evening after Miss Anthony
had spoken in the Convention hall proper,
that when she addressed the overflow meet-
ing she made the most pathetic speech
we had ever heard her make in a Conven-
tion. Her appeal to the audience was
sublime; after reviewing in brief some of the
hard work done during the last fifty years,
she referred to the results and remarked,
that having given fifty years of her life to
the cause, only four states were enfranchis-
ed, (how slow the work grew) and though
she hoped during the next ten years to see
others come in, and may be in fifty years
more all the states, yet she wished it might
be sooner: her magnificent appearance, the
majesty of her figure as she stood before the

[Column 2]
audience, and the pathos with which she said
those significant words brought tears to
many eyes in the assemblage. In her own
great empire state, would it not be a grand
culmination of her heroic efforts for the
emancipation of women, if before she passes
away, eqnal suffrage should be accorded.
How we wish it may be so if only for her
dear sake who has wrought so nobly for this
glorious cause.
	The opportunity given Miss Anthony
and her co-workers to appear before the 
senate assembled, was a rare occasion and
the President of the senate who is also
Lieut. Governor of Iowa was most cordial
in welcoming the ladies. As many as could
be seated on the platform were invited there,
and others were seated near; the room is a
handsome one in all its appointments. The
members were all fine looking men, and
paid the utmost deference to the ladies
who spoke to them. Miss Blackwell of
Boston, Mrs. Colby of Washington D. C.,
Mrs. Bradford of Denver, Mrs. Wells, of
Salt Lake City, Mrs. Woods of the Coeur
de’ Alenes, Mrs. Catt of New York City,
Rev. Anna II. Shaw and Miss Anthony
were the speakers, except that Mrs. Woods,
who was new to the work was simply intro-
duced, and Miss Anthony spoke for her,
though she reported Idaho in the Con-
vention, and made a speech on Friday
evening when the enfranchised states were
all represented on Idaho evening. A great
deal of executive work was accomplished
during the week, as much or more than we
have ever known of being done in so short
a time. Some of the speeches made were
par excellence: indeed Miss Anthony in her
palmiest days has never been more
applauded, and the love of her followers and
co-workers is something marvelous. Mrs.
Catt is brilliant and convincing, she is a
woman of fine presence and is very
“taking.” Rev. Ida L. Hultin carries her
audience away until they are spell bound—
her presence is very magnetic, her elocution
is perfect, and her whole bearing is one
of sublimity. Her subject on Friday eve-
ning Jan. 29, was “The Point of View,”
and she made it an impressive sermon.
Miss Hultin, Mrs. Catt and Miss Yates are
exceptionally grand both in presence and
every other qualification: of course Dr.
Shaw is always excepted when we make
these sweeping assertions.
	There are many other able speakers of
whom we are very fond including especially
Mrs. Avery, Miss Blackwell, Mrs. De Voe,
Mrs. Colby, Mrs. Upton, and many more,
so many they would fill these columns.
	Utah was celebrated last year, and this
was Idaho’s year, and Mrs. Woods had a
fine report and an excellent speech in
the evening which we hope to be able to
publish in our next issue.
	Utah, however, had full opportunity
although only one person was present from
the state to make the representation.
	Next year, 1898, will be the Jubilee year
for suffrage, the first Convention having
been held in Seneca Falls July 19 and
20, 1848, and every local society is request-
ed to celebrate on that day. At the general
Convention in Washington in 1898 there
will be a grand jubilee in which all states
are expected to participate.


[Column 1]
