BINGHAM STAKE.

Dear Sister:
	THE Quarterly Conference of the Bing-
ham Stake Relief Society was held at
Menan Dec. 12, 1896, President Emma J.
Bennett presiding. There were present on
the stand the Presidency of the Stake, also
Apostle John Henry Smith. After the
opening exercises, E. J. Bennett said she
hoped every society would be represented.
	Pres’t. Jardine reported the Lewisville
society as doing a good work and had con-
siderable grain on hand. Pres’t. Richard-
son reported the Ammon ward Society;
said meetings were well attended, they had
just completed their granary, had two hun-
dred bushels of grain on hand. Pres’t.
Shelley reported the Shelley Society in a 
fair condition. Pres’t. Green reported the
Menan Society, Pres’t. Morgan reported 
the LaBella Society as doing a good work
relieving the poor and gathering grain.
Pres’t. Barrett reported the Willowcreek
Society. Pres’t. Gorden reported the Rigby
Society as being in a prosperous condition,
had three hundred and thirty-nine bushels 
of grain on hand.  Sister Hanson, Coun-
selor to Pres’t. Dabell reported the Grant
Society as doing a good work.
	Pres’t. James Steel also R. L. Bybee of 
the Stake Presidency spoke to the sisters
and were much pleased with their reports,
and felt to sustain the sisters in their labors.
There were several other branches reported
by their Bishops or members of the Society.


[Column 1]
E. J. Bennett reported the Stake officers
as being fully united and holding their
officers meetings, and encouraged the sisters 
to attend officers meetings. 
	Apostle Smith felt to encourage the sis-
ters in relief work, urging them to help 
those who stand in need as far as possible, 
and thought the storing of grain a responsi-
ble duty resting upon the sisters, and gave
many good instructions to the sisters.
	The Relief Society Conference was
brought to a close by singing “Praise to
the Man;” benediction by Bishop Wintle. 
	E. J. Bennett, Pres’t.
	E. S. Brunt, Sec’y. 
	SANPETE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Sanpete Stake Relief
Society held at Mt. Pleasant Dec. 11, 1896, 
at 2 p. m., Counselor Alvira L. Cox presid-
ing. Opened by singing; prayer by 
Brother Edward Cliff; singing “I know
that my Redeemer lives.” Counselor A. 
L. Cox said notwithstanding the series of
appointments she trusted that we might 
enjoy a full flow of the spirit. 
	Verbal reports were given as follows:
Pres’t. M. A. Frantzen, Spring City;
Pres’t. Annie Hardy, Moroni; Counselor
Rebecca Tucker, Fairview; Pres’t. Olive
Acord, Chester; Pres’t. Elizabeth Thomp-
son, Sterling; Pres’t. Matilda Olsen, May-
field. 
	Bishop Allred of Spring City thought
the sisters were more religiously inclined
than the brethren; they are a great help
and have a noble calling. Said to refrain 
from attending meetings for any length of 
time is almost spiritual death; found that all 
needed stirring up at times, and that 
encouragement as well as a special meeting
occasionally is a great help. 
	Pres’t. Helena Madsen represented the 
Gunnison Relief Society.
	Pres’t. R. N. Allred bore testimony to
the good effect in meeting together, also
to the greatness of the prophet Joseph. 
	Pres’t Canute Peterson spoke of the 
many experiences in privations that the 
Saints passed through in early days in this
county. Spoke of the divinity of the 
Savior, said “He undoubtedly had to suffer
the most severe pain on earth, as He had 
to suffer a portion of pain for every individ-
ual that was to come here. He trembled
and sweat great drops of blood. If God
dealt with us as He did in ancient days it
would sometimes be very severe; but since
the crucifixion of the Savior it is different. 
In coming down to live with us He found 
how hard it was, He also learned obedience
and is now our Mediator, and is pleading
for us continually or it would not be so easy
for us. We ought to appreciate Him; He
is and has been more to us than we can 
realize. Are we following in His footsteps? 
Do we bear the little trials (which are our 
crowns) as patiently as did He?”
	Singing “Praise God from whom all 
blessings flow;” benediction by Sister M. 
F. C. Morrison. 
	Evening session, 7.30 p. m. Opening 
exercises as usual. Counselor A. L. Cox
made opening remarks; felt that we were 
greatly blessed with the presence of the 
presiding sisters from the city. 
	Counselor Abbie Shoemaker said “we
come together to be fed with the bread of 
life. Let us be humble and seek for wis-
dom; if we have the spirit of God with us 
we will not have malice in our hearts, but 
will have a sisterly love.”

[Column 2]
	Pres’t. M. F. C. Morrison reported the
Mt Pleasant Relief Society. 
	Pres’t. Zina D. H. Young felt that the 
Spirit of the Lord here was a portion of 
the same spirit that is in the Temple. 
Spoke of the privilege of blessing and 
anointing the sick; those sisters having
received their blessings in the Temple have 
that privilege; the Lord is multiplying 
His blessing. “The Temple is the place
wherein you will be blessed and held in
safety. It is a foretaste, or a portion of 
Heaven when we can meet together and 
enjoy the spirit and each others society.”
	Sister E. B. Wells said “the Relief
Society is such a blessing to us, it has 
helped to elevate and educate us; it has 
brought the sisters closer together in sick-
ness, in death and in all things.” Spoke
of faith, that we shonld exercise it for the 
sick; spoke upon the subject of home indus-
tries, we should keep everything at home; 
encouraged the industry of silk culture
among the sisters, and of straw work, also
all other home industries.
	Pres’t. Canute Peterson in speaking of 
the poor said, “can you benefit the poor
unless you do equally as much for the 
wealthy, for it is more blessed to give than
to receive. None can tell the wants of the 
needy better than a good housewife.”
Thought the silk industry would be quite a 
useful one; sanctioned the idea very much. 
Supposing Babylon should leave, what 
would become of us, as it is so thick among
us? Felt grateful and appreciated the sis-
ter’s visit.
	Singing “Redeemer of Israel;” benedic-
tion by Edward Cliff. 
	Morning session 10 a. m., Pres’t.
M. A. P. Hyde presiding. Singing “O,
say what is truth;” prayer Brother R. N. 
Allred; sung “How firm a foundation;" read-
ing and approving of the previous minutes. 
	Pres’t. M. A. P. Hyde expressed her 
pleasure in meeting the sisters again, said
there was danger in lethargy in attending
to our meetings, prayed that we might have 
the Spirit of the Lord here and have a time
of rejoicing. “The Eord does not accept a 
lukewarm person; we should serve Him
with full purpose of heart. He says ‘Try
me and see if I will not pour out a blessing 
upon you’ As a key to safety Brother 
Joseph said ‘If you will follow the majority 
you will be right.’” Pres’t. Eliza Barthol-
omew, of Fayette; Pres’t. Esther Ander-
son, of Manti South ward; Sister Abbie
Shoemaker, of Manti North ward; Mary
Graham, of Milburn, represented their 
respective wards. 
	Pres’t. Zina D. H. Young said she was 
pleased with the exertions of the sisters in 
getting houses to meet in. “The Prophet
said the sisters little realized the foundation 
they were laying.” Told of a meeting of 
the sisters in the Salt Lake Temple, where
one of the sisters in speaking said she took 
her troubles to God and then left them
there; thought the idea so beautiful that it 
would be well for us to do likewise. “We
should be prayerful and humble.” Related
an incident which transpired at the Kirt-
land Temple, where the opposite power was 
made manifest. Gave the origin of the book
“Pearl of Great Price,” told experiences of 
the Saints of sixty years ago, to show how 
the Lord brings about circumstances.
"There could be chapters and whole books 
written from the experiences of the Saints.”
	Sister M. F. C. Morrison bore testimony 
to what had been said. 

[Column 3]
	Pres’t. Madsen of Mt. Pleasant said the 
complaint of the different presidents of a 
lack in attendance, was the same with the 
people in the ward gatherings; but those 
that remain at home are the losers. If our
people could only get a taste of the good
things they would want more. 
	Counselor Benedicta Hansen of Ephraim
North ward and Lana Anderson, Counselor
of Ephraim South ward, reported the wards 
in a good condition. 
	Sister Annie Taylor Hyde of Salt Lake
said if we would desire a double blessing
we should attend our meetings. This Soci-
ety was organized by the Prophet; we are
being blessed as well as blessing, and it 
makes us better Saints. 
	Pres’t. M. A. P. Hyde spoke in tongues
and Pres’t Zina D. H. Young interpreted 
it, giving blessing and words of encourage-
ment to the sisters. Conference adjourned
for three months. Singing “Earth with
her ten thousand flowers;” benediction by
Pres’t. Canute Petersen. 
	MARIA WILLARDSON, Stake Sec’y.


