[Vol4 | September 1917 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons - Lesson II - Theology and Testimony]

Guide Lessons. LESSON II. Theology and Testimony. First Week in October.  IN JUDITH'S TIME. (Reading: The Story of Judith, in the Apocrypha. Reference: Smith's "Old Testament History," chapter 27. page 226.) The previous lesson  on Israel in Exile  took us on a brief excursion from the Promised Land into the domains of the Persian Empire; this lesson brings us back to Palestine, the home of the Chosen People of God. But here we shall find a very different land from that which we have known in other days. About six hundred years before Christ the House of Judah was taken captive to Babylon. Some years prior to this the other tribes had been taken captive by Shalmaneser. So that for the period of about seventy years the land of Pale>tine contained hut a few "remnants" of the favored people. But about 336 B. C, fifty thousand and more of the scattered Israelites returned, by permission of Cyrus the Great, and began to build Jerusalem and the Temple. And so at least some of the Jews once again "sat under their own vine and fig tree" in the land of their inheritance. Of the conditions that prevailed in Palestine at this period. Dr. Smith says: "The people again presented, as in the wilderness, the outward aspect of the Church of the living God. Owing their revived political existence to the will of Persia, they could not at first establish a new monarchy: nor was the attempt ever made, till the usurpation of an alien  Herod the Idumaean  seemed to challenge their true King, the Christ, to assert His rights. The people seemed to have learned to wait for His king dom. "Our admiration for the magnificence of Solomon's Temple is not unmingled with a misgiving of some loss of spirituality, and its destruction broke through a tradition which leaned toward an undue reliance upon ceremonies. The second Temple, so strikingly inferior in outward splendor, nay. even the visible sign of Jehovahs presence in the Shekinah. became the center of a more spiritual worship. "While the great festivals, like the other Mosaic institutions, were for the first time punctually observed, the experience of the Captivity. and the examples of such men as Daniel, had taught the people that God might be worshipped not in Jerusalem only; arid their local meetings in the synagogues, which some suppose to have begun during the Captivity, became a regular institution. The Scriptures, collected into a "canon" soon after the return, supersede! the prophetic office; their regular reading in the synagogues prevented that ignorance which had been so fatal under the monarchy; and the "scribes," who devoted themselves to their exposition, shared the respect paid to the priests and Levites. Prayer, private as well as public, regained that supreme place in God's worship which had been usurped by rites and ceremonies. The Sabbath, which the prophets never cease to represent as the keystone both of religion and of the charities of social life, was firmly established, after a sharp contest with worldly selfishness. Idolatry was henceforth unknown; and the attempt of the Syrian kings to impose its practice adorned the Jewish Church with a cloud of martyrs, whose constancy confirms the many other proofs that the people had attained more spiritual faith. "The shades of this fair picture were as yet in the background, and the current of the history brings them into prominence soon enough. They are the vices which our corrupt nature distils from these very virtues; spiritual pride, perverting the uses of God's worship; oppression and immorality, excused by the privileges of God's people." This spirituality is confirmed by the details of the Book of Judith. Suffering, deprivation, and persecution generally has the effect of reducing pride to the dust. It often did so with the Nephites and the Jews. It did so on this occasion. For seventy years the people of Israel had lived among strangers who despised and pillaged them. And now they were back again in their native land with none to molest them except from the outside. No wonder they turned gratefully to serving God all the day. When, therefore, a foreign army once more threatened their peace and security, instead of making alliances with the broken reed of heathen princes, they looked to Jehovah for succor. "Every man of Israel," we are told by the author of Judith, "cried to God with their great fervency, and with humble souls. Both they, their great vehemence' wives, and their did they children, and their cattle, and every stranger and hireling, and their, servants bought with money, put sackcloth upon their loins. Thus every man and woman, and the little children, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, fell before the temple, and cast ashes upon their heads, and spread out their sackcloth about the altar, and cried to the God of Israel all with one consent earnestly, that he would not give their children for a prey, and their wives for a spoil, and the cities of their inheritance to destruction, and the sanctuary to profanation and reproach, and for the nations to rejoice at." The heroic deed of Judith and the circumstances attending it 
 furnish an interesting illustration of how the Lord answers prayers a^ compared with the manner in which men sometimes expect I lim to do. It will be remembered that, when the army of the great king marched up against the town of Bethulia, in Samaria, the people gathered in that stronghold to withstand the invading forces. It will also In remembered that Holofernes, the leader of those Forces, believed that the Israelites there trusted to their defenses for protection against defeat, and so he suddenly decided to lay siege to the fortified town. Thus he unwittingly fell a prey to the Nemesis that lay in wait for him. The siege continued till the Jews were reduced to the extremities of thirst. Whereupon, the local authorities, urged by the women and children to do something to relieve the situation, consented to surrender to the enemy  if God did not deliver them within five days. That God would so deliver them these men believed without question. No doubt the words of Achior to Holofernes himself fully expressed their sentiments in the matter: "Now therefore, my lord and governor, if there be any error in this people, and they sin against their God. let us consider that this shall be their ruin, and let us go up. and we shall overcome them. But if there be no iniquity in their nation, let my lord now pass by. lest their Lord defend them, and their God be for them, and we become a reproach before all the world.'* And the elders of the people knew they had not sinned before the Lord. So there could be nothing else but a deliverance by I lim. "Be of good cheer," said Ozias, one of these rulers, "let us yet endure five days, in the which space the Lord our God may turn his mercy toward us; for he will not forsake us utterly." Judith evidently had more trust even than the leading men in Bethulia that God would bring about a deliverance of the people. "Hear me now, O ye governors," she reproached them, "for your words that ye have spoken before the people this day are not right, touching this oath which ye made and pronounced between God and you. and have promised to deliver the city to our enemies, unless within these days the Lord turn to help you. And now who are we that have tempted God this day, and stand instead of God among the children of men? For if he will not help us within these five days, he hath power to defend us when he will, even every day. Therefore, let us wait for salvation of him, and call upon him to help us." But how was the Lord to deliver the people? The obvious way, in the judgment of the governors, was for the Lord to furnish a supply of water. This would be easy for the Lord to do by means of rain. That this is precisely what they thought is evident from what they said to Edith: "Therefore, now pray thou for us, because thou art a goodly woman, and the Lord will send us rain to fill our cisterns, and we shall faint no more." The Lord, however, had a simpler and more effective way of relieving the situation. He used the faith, intelligence, and courage of this woman through whom to accomplish what they had prayed for, hut what they had expected would be done in quite a different way. It is much to their credit, however, that they did not try to explain the matter on natural principles, and say: "Oh, that was not an answer to prayer at all. Tt would have happened anyhow. Our deliverance came about in a perfectly natural manner, and God had nothing to do with it." Perhaps they would have done so had they lived in our scientific age. The fact that the governors of Bethulia took this whole event in such good part would argue a high degree of respect for woman. They do not appear to have deemed it offensive at all or out of the way in the least. Perhaps it was due to the commanding personality of Judith, for she was not only a pious woman, but a woman of great independence, intelligence, and leadership. Three other points are worthy of notice. On her journey she wore sandals on her feet, bracelets on her arms, chains on her neck, and rings on her fingers. In fact, she "decked herself bravely," we are told, "to allure the eyes of all men that should see her."' Her fare consisted of a bottle of wine, some parched corn, lumps of figs, and fine bread. Also she carried a cruse of oil for ointment purposes. At midnight, while she was away, she went to the valley of Bethunia to wash herself in the fountain. On her return to Bethunia, "the women of Israel ran together to see her, and blessed her, and made a dance among them for her; and she took branches in her hand, and gave also to the women that were with her. And they put a garland of olive upon her and her maid that was with her, and she went before all the people in the dance, leading all the women; and all the men of Israel followed in their armor with garlands, and with songs in their mouths." QUESTIONS. 1. Describe the conditions that prevailed in Palestine at the time of Judith. 2. What is said of the spiritual condition of the people in Palcstme at the time? 3. Compare the faith of Judith with that of the people generally. 4. How did the governors seem to think their prayers for deliverance would be answered? 5. Was their prayer the less divinely answered that it was done in a "natural" way0 Explain. How are prayers answered? 6. What defeat Judith? How was she dressed? Describe the manner in which she was received on her return. 
 BIBLE LESSON FOR OCTOBER. "The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the Holy is understanding." Bible, Joel, Chapter 3. Book of Mormon. Ether, Chapters 1-15. Psalms.