[Vol56 | July 1969 | Page 520 | Fiction | Love Is not Veiled | Marian Gardner Nielson]
[Love Is not Veiled Marian Gardner Nielson]

But appen it dj » Without any warn- July 1969 of blood were standing on the bruise as if it was a big decision as to whether they should stay on the surface or trickle down my leg. I was on the verge of tears when, suddenly, I saw the parchment paper, its contents splattered every which way in a mass of yellow ruin. The tears that had gathered close to my eyelids flowed over the edge and down my face. "Good old expensive stuff," I cried, as I saw that only a small amount of butter remained on the paper. I picked it up ever so carefully and hoped with all my heart that it would be enough for supper. "It's doubtful," I murmured to myself as I pushed the bike the remaining distance home. "I'm sure this isn't enough for nine of us to share." I parked the bicycle and walked slowly to the house wishing I was someone else's little girl, so I wouldn't have to go inside. But I wasn't someone else's, I was our own little girl, leas and I opened up the door and stepped into the kitchen. The table was set, and our 522 family was starting to sit down; so no one noticed me for a minute.; "Here's the butter," I said in a sad, weak voice. Mama was at the stove pouring the beans into a bowl. "What kept you so long?" she asked, not looking around. I walked over to her and stretched out my arm. The paper and butter, on the palm of my hand, were very close to her face. She stepped back to avoid being smeared, and a trace of a frown appeared on her forehead as she raised one eyebrow slightly. Then looking at me, all tearstained and skinned, she said with the real concern of a loving mother, "You've had an accident." She began immediately to examine my knee. "It isn't too bad—go and wash up," and she gave me a hug as she took the butter. "Will there be enough for supper?" I asked anxiously as I dried my hands. Mama looked at the contents on the parchment. It appeared to be clean, so she carefully scraped it into the butter dish. "Yes, I'm sure there is enough," she reassured me, kindly, and going to the table, she set the dish by the bread. I slipped quietly into my place as Mama sat down on her chair. "There are plenty of beans, cool milk, fresh warm bread, and a jar of strawberry jam," she said after we had said the blessing on the food, "so there will be no need for any of us to use more than

Gardner Nielson @® When the three sisters, Gwen, Mary, and Maggie made the final decision, they knew there were still problems to be solved. Getting Gwen's three lively boys settled at Maggie's would entail planning and cajoling. Telephoning Mary's husband in New York about the change of plans was going to take some diplomacy. The real problem was getting their mother out of the hospital and then getting her comfortably and_ safely back home. The plan was simple on the surface. Gwen would go to Cedar Mesa on the plane with their mother. Maggie would keep Gwen's children, and Mary would drive down by car first to get the home ready for the mother's homecoming. 506 Gwen was washing the boys' play clothes, mending overalls, and folding and packing their Sunday clothes. She had a batch of bread in the oven. The baby's bed would be taken to Maggie's later. The trip would probably take four or five days, so She must leave plenty of clothes for the children. Gwen hoped she could get a batch of cookies made to take to Maggie. It would be the hardest on Maggie—what with four youngsters of her own—and she did look a little peaked lately. Gwen had wanted to get a baby sitter but Maggie had insisted on having the three little boys come to her place. Maggie had begun to carry out necessary plans, too. She had made room for Gwen's baby bed in the family room. Hy could set up two army cots in the boys' room. She would move her own baby bed into their bedroom. That way, everyone would be comfortable. She would make stew for the boys and maybe set some jello for dessert. Even thinking about food made her squeamish. You'd think after four babies. She hadn't told her sisters about her pregnancy. She knew what Gwen would say, "Well, that settles it! I am going to get Jane to come over." Mary was not looking forward to these eight hours of steady driving to Cedar Mesa. It had been nearly ten years since she had driven down that road—ten years of a successful career, and, she admitted wryly to herself, ten years of unsuccessful marriage. And the telephone conversation with James last night had not helped. She knew she had been too brisk, too impersonal on the phone, but habit was hard to break. "James, Mother is well enough to leave the hospital... Oh, she's fine. She said to tell you hello and she would like to see you QOh. Yes. Well, Gwen will go down with Mother on the plane. Maggie will keep Gwen's children, and I am leaving in the morning for Cedar Mesa to get the house ready.... Why? Well, I have no ties to keep me home."; When James asked "Mary, are you coming back here?" she had answered, "I don't know, James." His "Well, suit yourself' was as cold as her "Goodbye, James." Mary's hands tightened on the wheel. She had not let herself think of the marriage. That is, Love Is Not Veiled not until she had accepted the position with the publishing company. James had not objected, then. As she became successful in her work and spent more time at it, James became resentful. He objected when she spent the summer in Europe for the firm. Why couldn't he accept her success? The house was fine and the cook served better meals than Mary could prepare. She had tried to get close to James again, to get their marriage on an even keel. But now it was a cool neutrality. She was not sure that she wanted to go back to New York—especially since she had stayed in Gwen's comfortably furnished home with its confusion and love. And in the shabby, bulging home where Maggie was a lovely and beloved wife and mother. It was not until Mary came to the Colorado River that she threw off her unhappy mood and began to notice the spectacular scenery. She still missed the narrow, colorful, trestle bridge which had spanned the river when she was a girl, however the sheer red cliffs were still blazing in the sun, their dark shadows darker still because of the intense sun-glare of their lacquered surfaces. She slowed down to catch glimpses of her favorite places. Here was the famous fault that her geology professor had told the class about. There was the little meadow where the five quaking aspens grew—and there they were! But they were taller, with their golden leaves twinkling in the sunlight. She glanced at the familiar 507 Opened Windows, and aired out €ach room as She went from one When the boys Snuggled under the warm, tied Wool quilts! The long table in the dining room Was stil] Scarred Where the table tennis net had been Screwed on too tight] y. The big, sunn y kitchen Still echoed With the Sounds of pulling honey candy, and sitting down to Mother's cooked dinners. She had stepped quietly into the corner bedroom and had felt the presence of her father and mother still there. It was a good house. It was a good feeling Mary had as she went through it. She touched the familiar pictures, ran her fingers along the faded and broken piano keys. Even in the daylight she switched on the lights in the living room to see if she could catch the rainbows in the prisms of the chandelier the whole family loved. She still wondered why her father had never bought a dishwasher. It would have saved her mother so many hours. Well, if she was going to get to the Merc before closing time, she'd better go. She decided to walk the three blocks to the store. She was stiff from driving and the walk would do her good. Besides —she might see some of her old friends or her mother's friends. Too, she would have to pass Aunt Irene's. Perhaps she would be working among her roses where she was usually seen. It had been difficult to explain to James' friends that all her "Aunts" were really not Aunts at all, but were the older women she knew and loved. Everyone called these dear friends "Aunts." Call them "Mrs Galbraith" or "Mrs. Taylor'? That was too formal for Cedar Mesa folk. It had sounded a little provincial, later, when she thought about it. But home again at Cedar Mesa it sounded all right to talk about "Aunt Irene" and "Aunt Hattie" and all the rest. They seemed closer to you, that way. Aunt Irene wasn't in her roLove Is Not Veiled ses when Mary passed her house. She stopped at the telephone office and asked to have her mother's phone connected. She walked into the Merc, took a basket and selected the groceries she would need. The clerks were all strangers, the few people in the store busy with their own buying. When she paid the bill she felt distinctly let down. Old Home Town, indeed! On the corner near home she met Ruth Murphy—Ruth Layman she was now—the tall wearylooking woman informed her. But Ruth was in a hurry to get supper for her large family so she spent little time talking. "I'm so glad your mother is coming home. We've all missed her—and worried about her." "She had a rough time, Ruth, but the doctor says she will be all right. She's coming in a day or so. I'll stay until she is up and around and can do for herself." "Well, we must get the old crowd together while you're here. I'll give you a ring. See you later, Mary." Ruth hurried down the street to her small trailer house. The feeling of not belonging persisted. Mary was tired. She wanted to get right home, take a shower and get into her bed. She hoped she wouldn't see anyone else now; she didn't feel like talking. She saw Johnny Jones, her father's old friend, hobble out of his lot to intercept her, but