[Vol56 | July 1969 | Page 514 | General Feature | Birthday Congratulations The Home— Inside and Out | ]
Watson, Member, General Board of Relief Society w Mama left a legacy of happy memories for her family. Our friends and relatives young and old loved to come to her gracious, hospitable home. Some who knew Mama best said it was because she was generous, kind, and witty, with a penchant for making every guest feel special and welcome. To this I wholeheartedly agree, but Mama had something else which drew people to her. Mama was an excellent cook. She liked nothing better than to share her cuisine with those she loved.. Unfortunately for her daughters, Mama never used a recipe. All of her dishes were concocted by feel, consistency, or taste. A pinch of this or a handful of that. Mama didn't even own measuring cups or spoons. One of the happiest memories Mama left her children was our annual trip to "the Lakes." Mama prepared for several days for this special event. I can close my eyes now and it seems as though I can almost taste some of her special goodies. As the tantalizing aroma from Mama's preparatory baking permeated the air, it appeared that it touched off the appetite alarms of all the youngsters in our neighborhood and those children who came to our kitchen door never went away hungry. For the long drive to "the Lakes," our outing site, Mama usually brought a lunch of milk, cinnamon buns, or slices of raisin and nut bread spread with freshly churned butter. She would pack them in the folds of snowy white dish cloths to keep them fresh, since wax paper or plastic wrap had never been heard of in our town.

[Birthday Congratulations The Home— Inside and Out]

There 514 Mamma Counted Flavor—Not Calories was always just enough food to appease our hunger but not too much to spoil our appetites for the picnic to follow. And what a picnic! Our favorite food was Mama's baked beans. Their cooking was an all-day process. How we loved the smell of the molasses and brown sugar, mustard, and the salt pork nestled cozily among the brown beans. Combined, they produced a flavor that was delectable. Homemade root beer was a must. This was an exciting change from milk or the ever-popular lemonade. Mama's root beer had a special tang. We all loved the bottling process and as we put the corks into the bottle tops and tied them securely to the bottle with string, we would beg Mama to put our mark on just one bottle reserved especially for each of us. In our home town, most everyone had at least a small garden. Fresh vegetables were common fare. Mama said they were good for us and so she used them in every possible way. Happily, Mama had the knack for giving even the lowlhest variety a special flavor. Pickled cucumbers were our special favorites so Mama always included them as part of our picnic menu. Wheat was indeed the staff of life in our home. Mama used it in a variety of ways. From a breakfast food which she simmered for hours on the back of our coal range, to hot cakes, baking powder biscuits, buns, scones, to wonderful crusty homemade bread. We loved to spread fat slices of this bread with cream skimmed from the milk pan and flavored with sugar, or covered and dripping with honey or syrup. Long loaves of what we now call French bread were our favorite for an outing. What is so delightful as homemade ice cream? No picnic or outing was complete in our family without it. Since Mama _ never counted calories, her ice cream was rich and delicious. The best and sweetest part was that which some lucky individual would lick from the dasher. Mama made many flavors and each kind we would avow to be our favorite. Try a delicious peach variety for your family. A dripper cake, usually Mama's special fudge cake recipe, completed our lunch. Even though we had eaten our fill we could never resist this special treat. Papa always concluded our picnics by arising to his feet and proclaiming that this picnic was the best ever. His only complaint being that he had eaten too much. Why did she make everything taste so good? Then, one by one, each one of Mama's children in his own way would echo Papa's words. Many of you, like Mama's children, have treasured memories. Many of you, as we do, long for "Mama's" cooking. Why not plan a family outing and try these recipes or those you and your family enjoyed and remember so well? Several of the following recipes have been adapted from Mama's original ingredients and methods of preparation, -and the other recipes included have been contributed by friends. 515 N BUNS 3c. Flour Y2 tsp. Salt 3. Buttermilk, roo CINNAMO m temperature Vy c. Sugar \ water. Combine ingredi dd the following (0 thoroughly an hour longer. 1 tsp. Soda 3}/2 c. Flour n of dough into ar nd 2 Craisins. Ght. Roll portio 2 innamon 4 V4 Cc. SURAT: ace on _ While bu T BEER t beer eX e recipe with roo qa strainer nd pour through HOMEMADE ROO iven in th ccording to nd instructions g y hops in 2 C. Ater a e. Bottle and cap 2 tra flavor, oll Add this to the commercial recip \SCUITS 2c. Sifted flour V2 tsp. Salt Ye C. Shortening 1 beaten eg 1 tbsp. Sugar {sp. Baking - a ac. Mi \ til, mixture resembles coarse and milk and sides of bowl. Turn on \ 34 inch thickness. Cut wit 516 Mamma Counted Flavor—Not Calories PICKLED CUCUMBERS 2 large cucumbers, peeled 1 c. Water and sliced thin 2c. Vinegar 6 green onions, chopped V3 Cc. Sugar fine salt and pepper to taste Combine all ingredients in covered dish and let stand for 6 to 8 hours, or until ready to serve. FRENCH BREAD 3 c. Warm water 3 tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Sugar 8 c. Flour (approximate) 2 tbsp. Melted shortening evaporated milk 2 tbsp. Dry yeast sesame seeds Combine warm water, sugar, shortening, dry yeast and salt, and let yeast dissolve. Add flour and mix. Make dough a little stiffer than ordinary white bread dough. Let rise for one hour. Divide dough into five equal parts, or as many as you would like. The more loaves you make from the recipe, the more crust you will have. Form the dough into loaves by placing it on a breadboard, pressing out the air and then rolling tightly to form an oblong loaf. Pinch the dough together at the ends to seal the edges. Roll in evaporated milk and then in sesame seeds. Place on greased cookie sheets as far apart as necessary to keep the loaves from touching each other when they rise. Let rise, uncovered, for 12 hours. Bake at 375° for about 30 to 45 minutes or until bread reaches desired brownness. Remove bread from the oven, cut in big crusty pieces, and serve spread with butter. PEACH ICE CREAM 3 c. Mashed peaches juice of 1 orange (about 4 large peaches) ' 1 pt. Whipping cream 3 c. Sugar 1 qt. Milk juice of 212 lemons 1 can condensed milk Combine mashed peaches, sugar, lemon juice, and orange juice and let stand at room temperature for 2 to 3 hours. Lemon juice will keep fruit from discoloring. Pour mixture into a four-quart ice cream freezer and add whipping cream, milk, and condensed milk. FUDGE CAKE 3-squares chocolate 1 tsp. Soda Yo c. Milk 2 c. Flour Y2 c. Shortening YZ tsp. Salt 1% c. Sugar lc. Milk 3 eggs, separated 1 c. Nuts 1 tbsp. Water 1 tsp. Vanilla Melt chocolate in %2 c. Milk over medium heat. Cream shortening and sugar. Add egg yolks one at a time, beating well after each addition. Pour melted chocolate mixture. Sift flour and salt together and add alternately with 1 c. Milk. Dissolve soda in 1 tbsp. Water and stir into batter. Add vanilla and nuts. Beat egg whites until stiff and fold into batter. Bake in greased dripper cake pan in moderate oven (350°) for 45 minutes. FROSTING Melt 1 square chocolate and '%2 square butter or margarine. Add 1 beaten egg and 14% to 2 cups powdered sugar and beat vigorously.

517 A Brace of Horses learn from fiction. Biography is the story of one man, fiction offers an account of mankind. Resolve to read a good book each month or even each week. Then make the effort to live up to your resolve. "Picking the brains" of others sounds almost unpardonable, but that is what the mentally alert do every day of their lives. If you meet a ceramic artist, learn about ceramics. If you meet an old-timer, learn more about your community. If you meet a scout-explorer, learn more about mountaineering. Reach out for these opportunities. A group of seventy-five adults living near the Huntington library where rare book exhibits are always open free to the public, was asked how often each of the group visited the library.