[Vol56 | July 1969 | Page 547 | General Feature | Visiting Teacher Message— In the Service of Your Fellow Men Alice | Colton Smith]
[Visiting Teacher Message— In the Service of Your Fellow Men Alice Colton Smith]

547 July 1969

 we can usually find if we are looking for them? WHAT ARE OUR EXCUSES? 1. That we are not converted. Can we justify ourselves when we accept some of the teachings of our leaders and reject others? 2. That we hear the counsel but we are not ready to heed it. Can we attain salvation without working for it? 3. That there is no immediate need. Illness, accident, strikes, destructive weather (earthquakes, tornadoes, etc.), and other disasters could occur at any time. 4. That we are protected by the Church storehouses. These supplies are only designed to meet needs that go beyond what the family is able to do for itself. 5. That we have inadequate storage space. If there is a will, there is a way to overcome this problem. 6. That spoilage of stored food results in a waste of money and effort. Do we criticize the program rather than the method when unwise planning and improper storing are responsible for our losses? 7. That we cannot afford the extra expense. Careful planning and _ wise manipulation of income will overcome this difficulty. WHY SHOULD WE BE PREPARED? If there were no other reason than that our Church leaders have so counseled us, it would be the best reason in the world for obeying. In a talk given at a Brigham Young University Leadership Week, Elder Harold B. Lee made the following statement: The only safety and security there is in this Church is in listening to the words that come from the prophets of the Lord, as if from the mouth of the Lord himself. And they have spoken; they have told us to prepare, and it is not for us to argue whether we should or whether 548 we should not. We have the prophets today telling us what our responsibility is here and now.... God help us not to turn deaf ears, but go out while the harvest is yet possible and build on a foundation such that when the rains descend, and the floods come, and the winds blow and beat on the house, our house will have stone walls. (BYU Leadership Week, June 16, 1953.) President Tanner told of a conversation he had with a member of the Church regarding the importance of family preparedness. This person said "Well, you know, if I knew that this was going to happen next year, if that is when the emergency is going to take place, I would get mine in" —meaning the year's supply. President Tanner replied, "If IT were you I would wait for the emergency.... You remind me of the man who was complaining that he had been paying fire insurance for the last twenty years and he had never got anything out of it." (Welfare Conference, October 1, 1966.) We pay fire insurance, certainly not hoping that some day our houses will burn down. We pay insurance on our lives hoping that we will long. Outlive the maturing of the _ policies. We take other precautions which we hope will insure us a happy and profitable life here on earth, and then we endanger it all by not heeding the warnings and counsel of our leaders regarding this most important phase of our living—preparedness. President J. Reuben Clark gave us some wise and sound advice when he said: First, and above and beyond everything else, let us live righteously, fearing God and keeping his commandments.... [Second,] Let us avoid debt as we would a plague.... Let us straightly and strictly hve within our incomes, and save a little. Let every head of every household see to it that he has on hand enough food and clothing, and, where possible, fuel also, for at least a year ahead. (Conference Report, April 1937, p. 26.) WHAT IS THE LATTER-DAY SAINT WOMAN'S ROLE? In some instances women manage most of the family expenditures. Home management has become a business in itself. This intensifies our responsibility as Latter-day Saint wives and mothers in this important preparedness program. We _ need, first of all, to be entirely converted to it, and then we should —if we have not already done Lesson Department so—proceed in a systematic and orderly way tomake the necessary preparation, as our incomes will permit, without borrowing or going into debt. CONCLUSION An increased sense of security and a deep feeling of peace fill our hearts when we know that we are obeying the counsel of the prophets of the Lord and when we know that by doing so we can take care of those we love in any emergency. Few of us have known an extremity of want or suffering, but those who have experienced even minor emergencies recognize the wisdom of being prepared. SOCIAL RELATIONS—Immortality and Eternal Life Lesson 1—Restraint—Road to Freedom, Part 1 Alberta H. Christensen (Reference: Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, Selections from the Writings and Messages of President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., Melchizedek Priesthood Course of Study. 1969-70, Lessons 6-7.) Northern Hemisphere: Third Meeting, October 1969 Southern Hemisphere: March 1970 OBJECTIVE: To point out a mother's opportunity to teach the need and benefits of complying with the restraints of the immutable laws of the universe. INTRODUCTION If I were asked to name what I considered to be the most outstanding trend of modern life, particularly among the young people, I think I would say it is the rebellion against the restraints and conventions of our present hfe, whether those restraints and conventions affect our physical, intellectual, or spintual activities and being. (Immortality and Eternal Life, Vol. 2, lesson 6.)