RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE CLASS.
	Will commence in September 1904. Four
lessons a week, continuing until 1905, In-
structor, Dr. Margaret C. Roberts. There
will also be a course in cooking and lectures
on important subjects by ladies chosen from
or by the General Board of the Relief Soci-
ety. Terms for tuition, including hall and
janitor expenses, ten dollars per student.
	Students will be obliged to furnish their
own note books, text books and pencils.
	The students shall each sign a contract
to nurse for charity for seventy-five days
or whatever pay shall be designated by the
superintendent for two years from the date
of graduation.
	Any one desiring to take the nurse
course and not paid by the Relief Society of
her ward may do so by paying the ten dol-
lar fee herself and signing the contract. All
correspondence on this subject should be
addressed to Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie, 55 N.
West Temple Street.
				EMMA A. EMPEY,,
Superintendent Relief Society Nurse Class.


[Column 1]
		THE SUEZ CANAL.
Editor Exponent:
	You ask me to give you a few particulars
relative to my journey through the Suez
canal in 1874.
	We started from Bombay in one of the
Peninsula & Oriental Company’s Steamers
and arrived at Suez; which is the port of
Egypt on the Red sea and southern term-
inus of the Suez canal.
	The site is naturally an absolute desert
and until the water of the Nile was intro-
duced by a fresh water canal in 1863 the
water supply of Suez was brought across
the head of the gulf from the wells of
Moses on the Arabian coast or else carried
on camels, an hour’s journey from the
brackish wells of “Bic Survees.”
Suez itself is a most uninteresting place
with its mean Kozace or rows of native
shops and Mosques and its Mongrel popu-
lation. The only thing of interest to
travelers is the variety of dirty costumes
and the splendid view of the Sinai mount-
ains on its eastern, and Mount Alako on
its western shore.
	It was indeed a great achievement to re-
duce the distance between Western Europe
and India from 11,378 miles to 7,628
miles, equal to saving 36 days voyage (es-
pecially to sufferers by sea sickness), and
this was the result effected by cutting the
Suez canal between the Red sea and the
Mediterranean. Great credit and an ever-
lasting name is due Monsieur Ferdinand de
Lesseps, who was the great engineer who
brought the work to a successful issue.
From 1849 to 1854 he was occupied in ma-
turing his plans.
	He constituted a company called the Uni-
versal Suez Canal Company. It was not

[Column 2]
until the year 1860 that the work was act-
ually commenced. The canal extends from
Suez on the Red Sea to Port Said on the
Mediterranean. In going through the
Suez canal we pass through three lakes
(“Truly in the desert a fountain is spring-
ing, in the wild waste there still is a tree.”)
	Lake Menzaleh is nearest to the Mediter-
ranean. Lake Timsah is about one-half
way across the isthmus, fresh water, and
about five miles long, and. the Bitter Lake
(called so from the bitter taste of the water)
about twenty-three miles long. There are
buoys placed for the ships to pass between
(as they are very wide in some places—ten
miles and even more) so that it is necessary
to have some means to direct the course of
the ships.
	The whole length of the canal after pass-
ing through the locks, etc., at the entrance
and exit, is sixty-six miles. At every five
or six miles there is a passing place to en-
able large vessels to moor during the night,
and to bring up for other vessels to pass.
	All vessels not mails have to draw into
these passing places to allow the mails to
pass through without any delay. This
courtesy is accorded to mails of every
nation.
	Dredging machines are constantly at
work, as the shifting sands would other-
wise make the canal unnavigable.
	During the cutting of the canal fresh
water was conveyed from the Nile at Cairo
and distributed along the whole length of
the canal, a work which of itself was of no
small magnitude. The cost of the whole
works is stated to be about £20,000,000.
	The canal is a highway for steamers of
400 feet in length and 50 feet wide. It takes
three days to pass from Suez to Fort Said.
	The following table will give you some
idea of the use of the canal from 1870 to
1874, and of course the use and reveuue
arising from it now must be much greater:
Year		No. of Ships	Tonnage		Receipts
1870		486		654,915		206,373
1871		765		1,142,200	359,748
1872		1,082	1,744,481	656,303
1873		1,173	2,084.072	915,892
1874		1,264	2,423,672	994,375
	The tonnage was thus quadrupled in five
years.
	As far as the eye can see there is nothing
but sand and high hillocks of it in some
places like little mountains, but since the
canal has been cut there is vegetation of
mild growth, but it gave me the impression
even then that with fresh water the desert
might yet fulfill the words of scripture and
blossom like the rose.
	I knew nothing in those days of this won-
derful western desert that has literally ful-
filled the promise. I had the pleasure of
seeing for the first time a mirage. I said
to the Captain surely that is a town and
fields we see, and he allowed me to use his
powerful glass, but it had the same indis-
tinct appearance, and he told me it was a
mirage and that sometimes they were much
plainer than this one.
	Port Said is one of the dirtiest places on
earth. When I tell you all the water is
brought from the Sweetwater canal at
Ismailia by a conduit and is barely sufficient
for the wants of the town, and to add to its
dirt and misery it is a coaling station for the
P. & O. Steamers, you can better imagine
than I can describe the dirt and filth of the
place.
	A party of us went to look around the
town and paid a visit to one of their Casino


Smoking Concerts. We had no idea what 
such a place would be like and as we all
had gentlemen with ns we were safe. Arab
and Italian women played the most aston-
ishing instruments, and altogether the 
whole affair was so disgusting we did not 
stay many minutes, but strangers like to 
see all they can in a foreign place. There 
had been no time for our escorts to investi-
gate before entering as we had only a short 
time to remain on shore while the steamer 
was coaling, and they will not wait a second 
when they are ready.
	Passing through the canal is a break to 
the monotony of the voyage and makes the
passengers very sociable. Although a jour-
ney from England to India is very enjoy-
able, and I should not mind making the 
voyage again to re-visit my beloved India.
With kindest regards.
			Yours Very Sincerely,
