WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	Miss Florence Hayward has been select-
ed by the St. Louis World’s Fair to col-
lect the material for the exhibit in the his-
torical section of the department of anthro-
pology.
	Mrs. Lucretia Willard Treat, widely
known as a kindergarten lecturer, writer
and organizer, is dead. She was principal
of the Training School for Kindergarten
Teachers, Grand Rapids, Mich.
	Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker of Hartford,
Conn., was eighty-two years old on Feb.
22. “I am full of life and feel as though I
should live to be a hundred,” she say, in
response to congratulations. The birthday
was observed by a family gathering in the
evening.
	Queen Wilhelmina inaugurated the fest-
vities attending the queen mother’s jub-
lee with a gala dinner at The Hague rec-
ently. Speaking for herself and for the
Prince Consort, she proposed the health of
the queen mother, whose life, she said, had
been prolonged, “not for herself alone,
but, by the grace of God, for her people,
who adored her.”
	The Empress of Germany, the Princess
Henry, and others of the royal household
have promised to attend the Quinquennial
of the International Council of Women in
Berlin next summer. The Berlin Central
Committee has for its active chairman Mrs.
Hedwig Heyl, wife of the Imperial Coun-
cillor of Commerce.
	Princess Wiszniewski, who lately died
in Paris, founded in 1896 the Universal
Alliance of Women for Peace, and was its
president. Many American women are en-
rolled among its nearly 6,000,000 members.
	The maiden name of the princess was
Hugot, and she was a native of Bergundy.
	For more than thirty years she has dev-
oted herself to the cause of peace, ably as-
sisted by her husband, Prince Wiszniewski.
	Miss Agnes Mahony, a missionary who
is to return to West Africa next month,
will take with her a complete house, crated in
sections, and ready to be set up in the wilds
as a home for herself, a hospital for the
sick and a chapel for her converts. The
house is of Yellow pine, with a roof of
corrugated iron. It is forty feet long,

[Column 2]
twenty feet wide, and eight feet to the
eaves. It is to be set up near Cape Mount,
Sierra Leone.
		Ex. Boston Woman’s Journal.
			IN MEMORIAM.
		DEATH OF A NOBLE WOMAN.
	A bright spirit passed to the “other side” when
Sister Elizabeth M. Hart departed from mortality
on Friday January 15, 1904, death came without
warning and all were unprepared for the sad
event.
	Sister Hart has been a member of the Relief
Society Board of the Bear Lake Stake for nearly
twenty years, having been chosen 2nd Counselor
to President Julia P. Lindsay, July 13, 1884, and
1st Counselor, June 11, 1899, which position she
held at the time of her death. She was also Stake
Secretary of the Y. L. M. I. A. for many years.
	Our dear Sister has left a host of sorrowing
friends, and in the hearts of her co-laborers there
are thoughts which lie too deep for tears or words.
	Through her refined nature she could lead others
to higher tastes and nobler conduct. She carried
with her a sweet spirit of peace, and possessed the
power of winning hearts by her genial manner.
Her great desire was to remain true to the Gospel
of Christ; this she has done, and has labored
devotedly for the advancement of the work of
God, her example shines for emulation by the
daughters of Zion.
	It is a great thing to be ready at the Master’s
“call” with the work allotted us “well done.”
	The funeral services were held in the Paris
Tabernacle on Monday the 18th.
	The obsequies were in every way appropriate.
	Among the speakers was our beloved and aged
President Julia P. Lindsay who was grief stricken
at the thought of parting with one with whom she
had labored harmoniously for years past.
	The music was heavenly and inspiring. A
beautiful selection was rendered by the choir en-
titled “Thy Will Be Done,” and a Solo by Elder
Jos. R. Shepherd, “He Giveth His Beloved
Sleep.”
	The floral decorations were profuse and beauti-
ful.

		Gone! sweet spirit to our Father,
		Gone to join with saints above.
		She has nobly filled her mission
		She has done a work of love.

		She has left us for a season
		And earth’s temple laid to rest,
		But the soul, Ah! its immortal
		And is mingling with the blest.

		We have lost a faithful sister
		She has reached the radiant shore
		We must labor on without her
		’Til earth’s pilgrimage is o’er.

		Then shall we all meet in heaven
		In that home we loved of yore,
		There unite with severed spirits
		With dear friends to part no more.
