WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
R. S, REPORTS.
	EMERY STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Emery
Stake was held at Ferron Nov. 27, 1903,
President Mary A. Sorenson presiding. The
president reported the work of the Stake
and congratulated the sisters on the good
work they had done, expressed regret at
the absence of the late president, Sister
Annie U. Larsen, who was ill.
	Sister Maria Allen, of Castledale, spoke
on the subject "Woman,” her effort was a
grand one. Eight of the wards in the Stake
were represented and all reported in good
condition. Sister Josie E. Childs touching-
ly referred to the illness of ex-President
Larsen and spoke highly of the lecture.
	Sister R. O. Bird of Springville made
a telling speech to mothers. Brother Seth
Allen of Castle Dale referred to the noble
work of the Relief Society.
	In the afternoon Sister Maria Guymon
spoke of duties in the society and on saving
grain. Sister Mary Jenson of Ferron re-
cited "The Relief Society.” Bishop Nel-
son of Ferron talked to the parents; said he
was pleased with the Relief Society. Song
by Sisters J. R. Cox and Hattie Reid of
Orangeville. Reading by Mrs. Annie Ras-
mussen of Molen. Patriarch Frederick
Olsen appreciated the Relief Society; had
known of its benefits for thirty years.
Mandolin selection by Sister Jennie Behe-
min of Clawson. Stake Counselor Mary
J. King spoke of the Sunnyside Society,
urged the sisters to join the society and
help the work along. President Mary A.
Sorensen thanked those who had contribu-
ted to the success of the conferences.
	After the adjournment a social was given

[Column 2]
in honor of Sister Annie U. Larson and
Josie E. Childs, the retiring stake officers.
President Sorensen in behalf of the Relief
Society of Emery Stake, presented Sister
Larsen with an elegant rocker and felt slip-
pers and Sister Childs a workstand and
Ladies Companion. A present of money has
been sent to Sister Ann Pulsipher, the other
retiring counselor who resides now in Old
Mexico, and a Book ot Mormon with in-
scription from Emery Stake Relief Society,
to Sister S. J. Shipp, in Idaho, the former
secretary. Great credit is due the sisters of
Ferrou for the sumptuous repast and the
welcome extended to all. Toasts and senti-
ments were given and a pleasant time was
enjoyed.
	M. A. SORENSEN.
                           _______

