	HAIL TO THE NEW YEAR.

“The wave is breaking on the shore—
	The echo fading from the chime—
Again the shadows moveth o’er
	The dial-plate of time!”

	What shall the new year bring to the
Saints and to the world? Who can tell?
none unless by the spirit of prophecy. That
it may be laden with prosperity and every

[Column 2]
good gift and blessing for humankind—is
the uppermost thought in the minds of
those who are laboring for the establish-
ment of righteousness and peace. We
should lift our hearts in praise and grati-
tude to our Father in heaven for all His
manifold blessings vouchsafed to His people
in the past, and pray fervently for His
continued mercy and care in the future,
whatever may be their lot. It is the only
hope to trust in Him who knoweth all our
weaknesses, our trials, and who alone can
help us in bettering our lives, and in keep-
ing His commandments, that He has given
to guide us that we may be able to with-
stand evil influences and the powers of 
darkness. If we do this, if we cling to
him, in mighty faith; in daily prayer, in
loving assurance of His watchfulness, then
we shall not fail in obedience to the Spirit,
the still small voice within by which we
may discern between right and wrong. If 
we could always say as the poet Whittier
wrote.

“Amid the maddening maze of things,
	And toss’d by storm and flood:
To one fixed trust my spirit clings—
	I know that God is good.”

	We have the truth and that should make
us content to go on our way rejoicing even
though afflictions come, and trials encom-
pass round about. When one considers the
prosperity of Zion, how the Lord has deliv-
ered his people again and again, it gives
one hope and faith in the future and in-
spires one to greater earnestness in following
out the injunctions of the Savior to love
one’s neighbor, to try and pattern one’s 
life after the golden rule, and draw near in
spirit to the fountain of light and goodness.
	Life holds much that is pleasant to con-
template and to enjoy, and what may be
coming towards us of good we may not
know, and perhaps the very things we have
hoped for and worked for may be near.
	At any rate Zion’s interests are ours, and
Zion prospers, therefore, “all is well.” In
the movement for higher education our peo-
ple have indeed made rapid strides, and the
good work is still going forward. In refer-
ence to woman’s work in the organizations
among our people very much has been ac-
complished, in the way of progress, during
the last two or three years, in spiritual
and in intellectual growth as well as tem-
poral things. The women of our Church
are not behind in anything that will pro-
mote true culture and advancement, they
stand for the highest, and best in education,
literary, scientific, moral and spiritual.
	Our women missionaries go out among
the people, encouraging and instructing and
blessing the sisters young and old, and all 
who will come to listen to their teachings.
	They are never weary in well-doing,
their hearts are in the work of reform and
upliftment, and they carry with them, we
believe, the spirit of their mission, and go
forth in humility of heart upon their er-
rands of love, trusting in God and seeking
to do His will.
	The daughters of Zion are being taught
in all that will make them good wives,
mothers, and home makers; to the writer it
seems no stone is left unturned, no maxim
untaught, that will help our girls to fulfill
their mission here upon the earth in the
wisest and most excellent way.
	We mothers must not fail in the efforts
we have made and are making for the en-
lightenment of those around us, we must
“let our light shine,” and carry the glad

[Column 3]
tidings we have heard to our friends, our
neighbors, our companions, and to the
stranger also, whether within our gates or
elsewhere.
	Great events are at hand, greater perhaps
than any we have known heretofore, and
they may require great courage, as well as
zeal and wisdom. If our souls are fortified
with faith and are clothed upon with the
armor of righteousness, then there need be
no fear of failure. Steadfastness to the
truths revealed for our guidance and main-
taining our integrity before the Lord will 
give safety and eventually victory to the
Saints of God. Meantime diligence in bear-
ing testimony to those who know not the
ways of the Lord, and to each other, will
make us strong to do the work required at
our hands. Activity in spiritual matters as
well as temporal is needful, and eternal vig-
ilance and fidelity.


