RELIGIOUS DEVOTION IN THE HOME.

“In the home!" What sweet memories
these words recall to those who have left
their childhood home and established one of
their own, and the dearest thoughts are
given to Mother. For she it was, who bore 
all our childish pains and troubles and was
the recipient of all our joy and pleasure.
To her wise counsels we owe much of the 
success of our lives.
	The duties of a mother are without
number. Not only does it devolve upon
her to properly clothe and feed the little
ones God has entrusted to her care, but 
she is responsible for their moral and men-
tal development.
	"The home is the basis of society." It has
been said that the home is the cradle of the
nation, and it is, most assuredly, the found-
ation stone upon which the thoughts and 
acts of mankind are built. How necessary
it is then, for us to have the Spirit of God
dwelling in our hearts and homes, and a 
prayer ever in our hearts ascending to
heaven for aid and guidance.
	What is prayer? The poet says—

Prayer is the Soul’s sincere desire,
	Uttered or unexpressed,
The motion of a hidden fire,
	That trembles in the breast.
	“Prayer is the simplest form of speech,
	That infant lips can try,
	Prayer, the sublimest strains that reach
	The majesty on high."
	The devotional exercises of the home,
should be directed by the father, but if the 
father is absent, then it devolves upon the 
mother to call her family around her, be-
fore beginning the duties of the day, and
kneel in prayer. If we are earnest and sin-
cere in our supplications, impressions are 
made on the tender minds of our little ones,
which time can never eradicate. A faith is
instilled in their hearts, that wiil never die
out. They may, in after years, turn aside
and do wrong, but this faith, or a spark of
it at least is still slumbering in their hearts.
I do not believe in long dry family prayers,
where there are little tots for they soon
grow restless and uneasy, and would soon
form a dislike for them, but make them
short and so that they can understand
them. In our daily petitions, we should
ask for those things, only, which we abso-
lutely need and leave all the rest to His
judgment and mercy. If we are continually
praying, before our children for certain
things that God in His infinite wisdom does
not see fit to bestow, then we weaken their


[column 1]
faith in the efficacy of prayer. "A few
years ago I heard a little girl who had lost
a baby brother say, "I don't believe it does 
any good to pray for we just prayed and 
prayed and then baby died," Oh, how that
child's faith was weakened by not being
taught, "Not my will but Thine, Oh Lord;
be done." When we prepare to kneel in
prayer see that every child is in its proper
place, that no contentions exist, that little
hands and faces, as well as hearts, are
clean and pure; then rest assured your peti-
tions will be carried to the throne of God,
and a peace and joy will pervade your
homes that no amount of wordly prosperity
can give, then you will have strength and
courage to face and battle with each days
trials and temptations.

	"He prayeth best, who loveth best,
		All things both great and small,
	For the great God, who loveth us,
		He made and loveth all."
	We are a very busy, active people, and
we do not have the time or at least do not
take it for singing at our devotions. But
mothers, we would lighten our labors and
lessen our cares a hundred fold, if we sang
instead of sighing and if, when things go
wrong we hum a hymn in place of scolding.
Many of us perhaps have not the ability to
sing like a Patti or Lucy Emma Gates, but
our voices however poor, are dearer to
those we love the best.
	The spirit of discontent and unhappiness
will not remain long in a room, Where,
"Oh my Father," The Spirit of God like a 
fire is burning" or a hundred others of our
glorious hymns are sung.
	We should ever be watchful and prayer-
ful and seek the spirit of inspiration con-
tinually, for Satan is ever on the alert to 
catch our unwary feet and while we can
not always be singing and praying, we can 
have a prayer always in our hearts for di-
vine aid, for—

	"Sacred song invites the Holy Spirit
	Prayer invokes the blessings of God.

	The character and principles of the man
or woman is formed almost invariably by
the mother in infancy for—“As the twig is 
bent so is the tree inclined." She should in-
stil into the little tender minds the great
and redeeming principle of Faith. Teach 
them to love and venerate our heavenly
Father, and to hold sacred His holy name.
If we impressed this upon our children at
home as we should, we would not hear so
much profanity from our boys upon the
street.
	Of course, while we are teaching, these
things, we are also attending to the physi-
cal needs of our nature, so at proper times
we all gather around the table spread with
bounteous gifts from God, and should re-
turn grateful and heartfelt thanks and even
the youngest child should have its turn in
lisping thanks.

	"Between the dark and daylight
		When night begins to lower
	Comes a pause in the day's occupation
		That is known as the children's hour,"
	In this hour let us gather our dear ones
around us and take the Bible, the Book of
Mormon, the Doc. and Cov. or any of our
good church works, read a little, converse
upon and explain the principles of the 
Gospel. Let each member take an active 
part and they will become more interested
and will derive a greater benefit; as Bro.
Lyman says: "Knowledge obtained by
[Column 2]
hearing the word of God, establishes faith
in a child, for Him and His works, and this
faith firmly rooted is not easily shaken."
