			OLIS, INDIANA.

	The executive session of the National
Council of Women of the United States,
was held in Indianapolis, in February of
this year, commencing Monday, Eebruary
1, 1904.
	Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, of San Francisco,
the National President, presiding. Mrs.
Swift is very original; there is nothing for-
mal or stilted in her manner, she is easy
and gracious on the platform, and affable
and kind to all alike. The first afternoon,
as only a few delegates had yet arrived in
the city, was given over to a sort of “love
feast,” and almost every one present was
invited to speak and expressed an opinion
in regard to the Council, its present status,
and future possibilities, if the high ideals
of its founders were fostered and practically
developed.
	The four ladies from Utah gave free ex-
pression to the opinions they cherished on
the subject in question. The meeting was
held in the “Propylæum,” a handsome and
spacious building, erected and owned by
the club women of that city.
	In the evening a preliminary business
meeting was held in one of the elegant
parlors of the hotel Claypool, the headquar-
ters of the delegates in attendance at the

[Column 2]
Council. At this meeting propositions
were made and some plans formulated to
be submitted to the regular business sessions
during the week. One of the most inter-
esting things about the Council is the
women themselves who constitute the body
of the Council, its speakers and delegates.
To study these grand women who came to-
gether from many cities, and various or-
ganizations, representing a variety of lines
of work, and each with ideas of her own,
and plans to be submitted, furnishes charac-
ter-study of sufficient interest to make one
almost forget her own particular enterprise
in the endeavor to know human nature
better.
	Tuesday morning (closed session) the
work of the Executive began in earnest,
and continued during the week with
scarcely time to make one’s self comfortable
so strenuous was the effort to keep up with
the work in hand.
	The Young Woman’s Christian Associa-
tion very generously invited all the ladies
to lunch in their comfortable hall and every
day quite a number of ladies accepted their
hospitality. This was one of the many
polite courtesies extended to the Council
by the ladies of that hospitable city.
	At the close of the afternoon session
which was a continuance of Council bus-
iness, there was a “Tea” by the Fort-
nightly Club, given in the room across the
hall from the meeting, to which the ladies
repaired to meet and be introduced to these
earnest club women who had decorated
their room beautifully and prepared dainty
refreshments for the delectation of their
guests, the time was so limited that there
was very little opportunity for conversation,
and as it often happens the affair was
something of a disappointment, the meet-
ing having kept so late.
	In the evening; at 8 p. m., the meeting
was held in the large hall of the Propylæum,
a program prepared beforehand was given.
Addresses of welcome by Mrs. Kate Hunt-
ington Day, President of the local council
of Indianapolis, Hon. Winfried T. Durbin.
Governor of the State of Indiana, (who, by
the way, was not able to be present,) Hon.
John W. Holtzman, Mayor of the City of
Indianapolis, Judge Frank E. Gavin, Pres-
ident of the Commercial Club, of the City,
and Mrs May Wright Sewall, President
of the International Council of Women;
responses to addresses of welcome, Mrs.
Mary Wood Swift, President National
Council of Women, of the U. S.
	After the speeches a reception was given
by the Commercial Club and the local
Council, and dancing followed. The hall
was artistically decorated with flowers,
flags and banners, in profusion, presenting
a brilliant and gala appearance. The
music and dancing kept up till a, late hour,
though no one seemed weary either of
dancing or looking on.
	Wednesday morning, 9:30, session open
to all members of affiliated organizations
of the Local Council of the city. First came
minutes, then reports of committees and of
organizations affiliated with the Council.
	Mrs. Phebe Young Beatie, delegate gave
the report of the Relief Society published in
this issue of the paper. Mrs. Beatie made
an excellent impression upon the audience,
she spoke clearly and her enunciation was
perfect, the report was well received and
accorded considerable applause.
	The report of the Y. L N. M. I. A. came
next and was given without notes or paper
by Miss Agnes Campbell delegate for


[Column 1]
the Young Ladies’, she acquitted herself
creditably and we, Mrs Dougall and the
writer, were very proud of Utah delegates.
	The American Federation of nurses fol-
lowed. Miss Helena Bernard delegate. As
this is a subject of intense interest to us we
listened attentively as she gave an idea of
the work the nurses were doing as a feder-
ated body.
	Supreme Hive Ladies of the Maccabees
was given by Miss Bina M. West, Supreme
Record keeper, and when she gave the
financial condition of this far-reaching
society it made ones head swim, it included
so many thousands in treasury.
	The afternoon was given to reports first
being National Christian League for the
Promotion of Social Purity, President Mrs.
Elizabeth B. Grannis. National Association
of Colored Women Mrs. Davis delegate,
National Council of Jewish Women Mrs.
Hannah G. Solomon, this report was a
particularly fine one and in many respects
unequalled. Great Hive of the Ladies of
the Modern Maccabees, and several other
organizations were reported during the
afternoon but a number of the organiza-
tions were not representedat all.
	In the evening a reception was given by
Mrs. May Wright Sewall at her home, a
very brilliant affair, and very enjoyable;
many interesting people including a numb-
er of distinguished gentlemen doctors, law-
yers, professors etc.
	Possibly one of the Utah women might
give a good description of the elegant home,
old-fashioned and spacious, and of the bric-
a-brac ornaments paintings etc., but not the
writer, these things are not in her line. Day
followed day with vrork on committees and
in regular business sessions.
	Thursday afternoon was given up for a
trolley ride and to see the city, to be fol-
lowed by a “tea” to the National Executive
at the elegant home of Mrs John Candee
Dean, (a niece of Mrs. Sewall’s). Meeting
in the evening at the Propylaeum in the
large hall up-stairs, speakers, Mrs. Wyman
of the Relief Corps, G. A. R. Mrs. Krebs
of San Francisco, Grand Army of the Re-
public. Miss Louise Lee Hardin of the
Business Woman’s Journal and Mrs. C. C.
Bradford of Colorado, Miss. Ackerman on
the flag, Mrs. Sewall on Internationalism,
etc., until a very late hour.
	Friday morning 9:30 was to be given to
Local Councils Mrs. Kate Huntington Day
reported Local Council of Indianapolis, Mrs.
Maud H. Showers Local Council of Bloom-
ington and Mrs. Pauline Steinem Local
Council of Toledo, Ohio. Mrs. Grannis,
chairman of committee on Resolutions
brought in the report, the following were
adopted.
	That the Church universal be asked to
place women on an absolute equality with
men in the pew, the pulpit, in council and
in debate, and that the church elect from
one to one-half its officers and members of
committees from the women members.
	That excluding married women from
holding salaried positions in the public
schools is an adverse restriction and criticism
upon honorable wedlock, the rights and
privileges of wives and mothers and a cur-
tailing of the value of schools to the boy
and girl pupils and a wrong to the body po-
litic.
	That when a child is born out of wed-
lock, and the name ofi ts father is definitely
known by admission or proof, the child

[Column 2]
shall be entitled to the name of its father,
and shall share in his property the same
as children of legal parentage.
	That the National Council of Women
take such steps as are necessary to establish
juvenile courts in States where they do not
exist.
	That the members of the National Coun-
cil put themselves on record as advocating
servicable and hygienic dress, as opposed
to extremes of fashion or to forms of wear-
ing apparel which leave any doubt as to the
modesty of the wearer.
	The resolution which caused so much
discussion was as follows. (The writer so
far has not succeeded in finding the resolu-
tion as it was brought before the committee
of which she was a member also Mrs. Maria
Young Dougall but we give it here as it
was published after being modified).
	“Resolved, That any practice which un-
dermines the foundation of family life
should be strongly deprecated. and since
polygamous marriage is a terrible evil,
which threatens to destroy the home and
the state in portions of our country, the
people should petition and protest against
the seating in our national Congress any
man who may practice or subscribe to it.”
	Although the resolution was tabled the
women who favored it gave warning that
the subject would be voiced once more be-
fore the council made its final adjourn-
ment.
	Mrs. Wells and Mrs. Dongall strongly
protested against this resolution coming up
at all and urged that Congress had already
brought the matter before the Senate of the
United States and that the Senate would
and was sufficiently able to settle its own
affairs, but the advocates of the resolution
were persistent in bringing forward all the
stories current against Utah and its people
and declared the resolution was sent from
Salt Lake City by people who knew of the
continued practice of polygamy—and they
compared Senator Smoot’s case to that of
Breckenridge of Kentucky, etc. etc. It was
simply talking against the whirlwind so to
speak, but nevertheless we succeeded in
getting the Resolution tabled at last and
practically killed, although we had to listen
to the speeches of women who really knew
nothing of the question at issue, but were
fighting a phantom through misrepresenta-
tion of those who know not what they do.
	The newspapers say there were 6 against
tabling and 40 in favor of it, but there were
really only 5 against it just one eighth of
the assembly.


