A TRIBUTE OF LOVE TO MARY A. H. BURNHAM.

“Like weary and worn-out children, that sigh for
	the daylight’s close,
He knows that they oft are longing for home and
	its sweet repose;
So, He calls them in from their labors, ere the
	shadows around them creep,
And silently watching o’er them, He giveth His
	loved one’s sleep,”

	One cannot help a feeling of solemnity in part-
ing with old and dear friends, however confident
one may be that all is well with the loved one who
has gone on before.
	The departed sister whose demise we now re-
cord with loving words, was a true and faithful
friend to those around her; she loved her neigh-
bors and ministered generously of what she pos-
sessed; in times of scarcity, when there was little
to share with others, she gave to those who had
less even than the small portion she had for her
own family, and trusted in the Lord for more. Her
words, too, were like balm to the distressed and
sorrowing.
	In the troublous times of Nauvoo, when thou-
sands mourned perhaps as they have never
mourned since, the cruel martyrdom of the
Prophet and Patriarch, Sister Burnham was one
who spoke comforting words to the bereaved,
whose faith never failed, though her husband was
at that time away upon a mission, and she stood
alone, yet she had courage to face privation, scar-
city of food, and to rely upon One above for
strength and consolation, and to pour out words of
comfort to those around her. Those were the days
of dark trials, and many fell away. The spirit of
apostacy was rife, yet she held to the iron rod and
braved the storms of ridicule and persecution that
carried many down to darkness and unbelief.
Brave heroines of those days of hardship and sore
temptation, they are nearly all gone.

“They are gathering homeward from every land,
			One by one;
As their weary feet touch the shining strand.
			One by one,
Their brows are enclosed in a golden crown,
Their travel-stained garments are all laid down,
And clothed in white robes they meet on the mead
Where the Lamb doth love His chosen to lead,
			One by one.”
	Sister Burnham had been ailing for some time,
but when the final hour came she passed away
peacefully as though falling asleep. She was
staying with her daughter. Sister Almyra Young
Russell. Her death occurred in this city Novem-
ber 10, 1903. She was born March 14, 1816, at
Waitsfield, Vermont. The deceased was the daugh-
ter of Allen Huntley and Sally Hitchcock, both
illustrious names in the annals of New England


history; she was left an orphan when very young,
and reared by her grandparents. When sixteen
years old she married James Louis Burnham, and
went west in 1837. In 1842 Brother and Sister
Burnham were converted to the Gospel and em-
braced the same, and went up to Nauvoo, Ill., in
1843. She was left a widow with three sons in
1845, just previous to the birth of her daughter.
Sister Mary A. Freeze. She afterwards married
President Joseph Young in the Nauvoo temple; by
this marriage she had two daughters. She was
with the Saints in the exodus from Nauvoo, en-
during all the privations of that eventful period,
prefering exile with the Church to the independ-
ence offered her by her own people if she would
return to the eastern states. She went south to
Payson at the time of the move south in 1858, and
remained there for some time, afterward moving
to Richmond, Cache county, and in 1863 returned
to Salt Lake City, which has been her permanent
home ever since. Her posterity number 197. She
had seven children, 14 grandchildren, 114 great-
grandchildren, and two great-great-grandchildren.
Her life was a most exemplary one, full of zeal
and religious devotion, never murmuring, however
difficult and trying her circumstances. She was
unflinching in her integrity to the Gospel, and al-
ways bore testimony to the divine mission of
Joseph Smith the prophet of the Latter-day dis-
pensation. Sister Burnham knew the Prophet
personally, and testified on all occasions of his
grand and noble character. She was present at
the meeting in the grove in Nauvoo, when the
mantle of Joseph fell upon Brigham Young, when
the people cried “It is Joseph come back again—
he is resurrected.” There are few now living to
testify of having witnessed these things; but those
who were present on that memorable occasion can
never forget its thrilling effect upon that enthusi-
astic assembly.
The funeral of this excellent woman was held
in the Eleventh ward meeting house, and many
testified of her good works. Bishop R. Morris
presided. Beautiful floral tributes from loving
relatives and friends were laid upon the white
casket, and music such as the angels might listen
to was rendered. Her remains are laid to rest
upon the hill side, to await the morning of the
first resurrection.		 E. B. W.


