WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
REPORT OF THE NATIONAL WOMAN’S
	RELIEF SOCIETY TO EXECUTIVE SESSION
	OF THE NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN
	IN INDIANAPOLIS, IND., FEBRUARY 3,
	1904.
	PRESENTED BY MRS. PHEBE YOUNG
				BEATIE
Madame President and Ladies of the Council:
	Since the report of the National Woman’s
Relief Society, at the Executive session of
the Council in New Orleans last March so
little time has elapsed that one has not
much to tell in the way of progress, yet in
the number of meetings and conferences
and in visits among the women of the Soci-
ety more has been done than during any
previous year.
	Our society has held over one hundred

[Column 2]
and fifty conferences; more than sixty of
these have been attended by the General
officers or members of the General Board
who travel in many instances long distances
and often by team over rough country
roads through mountain passes or canyons
to encourage, instruct and assist those who
are living far away from headquarters and
have fewer opportunities and advantages of
acquiring knowledge or understanding the
practical work of the Society along pro-
gressive lines.
	Our organization is charitable and phil-
anthropic and we reach out to the poor and 
needy and unfortunate, the sick and the
afflicted, yet we also try to teach the people 
how to live properly and how to avoid
much that tends toward dependence and
poverty by making better use of their time
and means.
	In the women’s meetings and conferences
we listen to reports of what has been done
in given localities and we thus cemprehend
better what the family life really is.
	When a local president reports her soci-
ety work in conference, she in a measure
represents herself and the people among
whom she dwells and with whom she labors
in the relief work.
	To hear these reports gives one a won-
derful knowledge of human nature, and
broadens one’s ideas of people and serves to
create an intense desire for better methods
of helpfulness; in fact the benefit is just
as great to the women who go out among the
people as it is to those who are visited.
	These visits to conferences during the
year have extended as far north as Canada,
and south in Mexico.
	Our last report stated that we had intro-
duced into our society in all its local
branches what we designate as mother’s
work. An outline of the subjects is pre-
pared by a competent committee and pre-
sented by women selected to lecture briefly
on the special subject; after the lecture
everyone present is at liberty to ask ques-
tions or discuss the subject and in this way
the lecture is explained and better under-
stood by all.
	This method has increased the member-
ship largely and brought more young
mothers into the society. The subjects
treated upon relate closely to marriage, its
puropse, etc., to prenatal influences, care of
the infant, the child, its rights and privil-
eges, obligation of parents, etc , home life,
necessity of obedience, industry, honesty
truthfulness, virtue, reverence for God and
sacred things, and all that will tend to make
life desirable and better in the home and
promote the welfare of the community.
	The education of trained nurses to care
for the sick who are needy and also as a
means of self-support to young women, in-
troduced as a department of Relief Society
work some years ago, has been most satis-
factory during the past year. Dr. Roberts,
who had been so successful heretofore in
this branch of relief work, has had a larger
number of students and from a wider area of
country than before. The class numbered
eighty-six, of this number seventy-five
graduated and received certificates from the
State Medical Board, as competent trained,
nurses, these young women were from
twenty-eight different counties in Utah and
some from adjacent states The course of
study includes physiology and hygiene also
domestic science as it relates to the sick
room. These nurses trained under the sup-
ervision of the Relief Society give a certain
specified amount of time among the sick


who are not able to pay for professional 
help. Mrs. Empey superintends the nurses 
work among the poor and has been very 
efficient in charge of this part of the depart-
ment and she also looks after the welfare
of the nurse herself when thus employed.
In this department of the society I have 
held the position of secretary and treasurer 
and have become greatly interested in the 
nurses and realize the immense benefit and 
blessing of such competent help among the 
poor and unfortunate and the spirit of true 
charity that is like the balm of Gilead to 
the soul of the distressed! Personally I en-
joy my labors in the Relief Society and re-
joice in the progress it is making; am proud 
that we are affiliated with this grand Conn-
cil of Women.


