                                          LYDIA D. ALDER.


[Column 1]
THE INTERNATIONAL COUNCIL OF
			WOMEN.
					December 30, ’03.
To the Members of the National Council of
	Women of the United States:

	DEAR FRIENDS:—For two reasons it
seems not inappropriate that I should ask
space in various women’s papers to address
a word to you concerning the approaching
Executive of the National Council which is
to be held in Indianapolis the week begin-
ning February 1st. It is not unnatural
that I should have a special interest in the
success of that session of the Executive
which is to be held in my own city. The
only session of the Executive of the Na-
tional Council ever held in Indianapolis
was convened here by its President, the
honored and regretted Frances E. Willard,
in May of 1888, when the only members of
the Executive were the five members of the
general officers of the Council and the pres-
dents of the two national organizations
which then constituted the Council. Now
that the Executive includes, besides its five
general officers, three living Honorary
Presidents, and the Presidents of twenty-
two national organizations, and of eleven
Local Councils, it would seem, as if its
growth justifies the expectation which is
entertained that the Executive Session will
be full of interest for the public, as well as
of importance for the Council.
	Preparations for the reception and enter-
tainment of the Executive are being made
by the Local Council of Indianapolis, than
which none stronger exist in our country,
and by the Commercial Club, the leading
body of business men in Indianapolis.
That the National Executive will convene
under such strong local auspices is surely
an argument that the National Council
cannot resist to be well represented. The
still stronger argument for making what-
ever sacrifices may be involved in attend-
ance upon this session exists in the import-
ance of the particular work to be done.
	It is not unknown to the members of the
National Council that the Third Quinquen-
nial of the International Council will convene
in Berlin on June 6th of 1904, and that the
Qainquennial, which will occupy one week
will be followed by an International Con-
gress held under its auspices and arranged
for by the National Council of Germany,
which will continue through the next week.
The National Council of the United States,
like all other affiliated Councils within the
International, has a right to the following
representation at the Berlin Quinquennial,
namely:—
	First. One member on the Committee of
Arrangements for the Executive of the In-
ternational.
	Second. Two delegates.

[Column 2]
	Third. Two alternates for said delegates.
	Fourth. One speaking representative of
the Council who will make an address at
the second public session of the Quinquen-
nial, when every National Council will
have an opportunity to give a brief survey
of its own, and to state the International
aspect of its work. All of these represent-
atives are to be elected by ballot at the ap-
proaching Executive Session. It behooves
every member of the Executive to be pres-
ent, since the united wisdom, discrimina-
tion, and judgment of the Executive should
be brought to bear upon the vital question
of who these five representatives of the
American Council shall be. This, however,
is not the only important and particular
work of the approaching Executive.
	Last March, in New Orleans, a special
committee was appointed to investigate the
condition of affairs at St. Louis, and to
study the best possible representation of the
effort of the Council in St. Louis during the
months of the exposition. The committee
whose chairman is Mrs. Lillian M. Hollis-
ter, of Detroit, has undoubtedly performed
its duty faithfully, and it will have a plan
of representation which will interest every
member of the Council, and the judgment
of every member will be needed in the con-
sideration of this plan, and the considera-
tion of fhe means by which it may ba suc-
cessfully executed.
	Besides these matters of importance,
there are important reports from the stand-
ing committees, especially from the com-
mittee on Resolutions, which has had be-
fore it during the last year questions of ex-
ceptional importance.
	Then there will be the representation of
American women in the International Con-
gress, which is to follow the Third Quin-
quennial, to consider. Before February 1,
advices will undoubtedly be received from
Germany which will enable the President
of the International Council, whom Mrs.
Swift has appointed a special committee of
one on the representation of the American
Council at Berlin, to give a report of great
interest concerning the preparations that
are being energetically carried forward by
the tactful President of the German Coun-
cil and her able associates.
	The names of over one hundred women
have been proposed by the members of the
Executive of the American National Coun-
cil, as candidates for the honor of speaking
in some section of the International Con-
gress. All of these names have been for-
warded to the German Committee of Ar-
rangements. It goes without saying that
it will be quite impossible that all shall be
invited. The Council will have more than
doubled since the Second Quinquennial,
held in London in 1899, and, as the Inter-
national Congress is convened for the same,
length of time as in London, the number of
speakers that can be invited from any one
of the twenty-two countries, that will doubt-
less be within the International Council be-
fore June, will, naturally, be less than the 
number which could be invited from any
one of the nine countries constituting the


International Council five years ago. There
can be no doubt that the desire ot the Ger-
man Committee of Arrangements to invite
a just proportion of speakers from the
American Council is keen and sincere. It
is not improbable that the letters of invita-
tion will have been received prior to our
Executive. Then there must be a canvass
to ascertain who among the invited can go.
If, for any, it should prove impossible, then
again, there will be an opportunity to nomi-
nate available substitutes.
It is evident that the program for the ap-
proaching Executive (aside from the charm-
ing social entertainments which will be ar-
ranged for it, and the brilliant evening of
public exposition with which it will enter-
tain the public) will hold work enough of
sufficient interest to induce the members of
the Executive from far and near to meet in
this fair city of the Middle West.
Already it is known that the indefatiga-
ble President of the Council, Mrs. Mary
Wood Switt, who on Council business has
already crossed the continent four times
within the last ten months, will make an-
other long journey again from San Francis-
co to preside in person. May the loyalty
of her associates attested by their presence,
justify to her her own energetic services to
the Council.

