M. HART.

Editor Exponent.
	The following brief sketch of the life of
Mrs. Elizabeth M. Hart was written by
herself during the first week in January,
1904, and read by her in the Young Ladies’
Mutual Improvement Association in Bloom-
ington on Sunday evening, Jan. 10th. 1904,
five days previous to the deplorable acci-
dent which caused her death.
	She was a domestic economist in the ful-
lest sense of the word; a wise counselor, a
well read and thoughtful student; a ready
and interesting public speaker and a sin-
cere and devout member of the Church of
Jesus Christ, and made loving friends
wherever she was known.
	It is the consensus of the feelings of the
Stake Presidency and the auxiliary organi-
zations of which deceased was an active
member for so many years that in her de-
parture they have lost one of the bright and
shining lights among the noble women who
labor among us so faithfully in building up

[Column 2]
the great work of the Lord in this Stake of
Zion.                                     COM.
February 10th, 1904.

	I was born on the 26th day of March in
the year 1843, in the town of Treforest, in
the county of Glamorgan, South Wales,
Great Britain. My father’s name was David
Thomas, my mother Martha Davis Thomas,
both of the same place. I am the second
daughter of a family of six girls. Our par-
ents were in comiortable circumstances, and
we grew up in an atmosphere of love and
tenderness. Our home was to me a perfect
paradise. Although my mother’s health
was delicate, she was able to direct home
affairs, but obliged to leave the arduous
labors to an attendant named “Kitty,” who
lived in the family seventeen years.
	My father did not believe in any of the
religions of the so-called Christian churches;
but he was a strong believer and advocate
of justice, truth and equity. My mother
was a member of the Baptist Church, but
was not satisfied with its organizations and
doctrines, and was always searching for
more light, and something more tangible
that she could lay hold on with full hope
and assurance. She was fervent in spirit,
conscientious in her convictions, and faith-
ful in performing her duties in life as she
understood them.
	From my earliest recollection I was
taught to observe the Sabbath day to keep
it holy; to refrain from loud laughter and
from indulging in mirth of whatever nature.
I was fairly well acquainted with the
common branches of education, including
domestic economy, before I reached my
thirteenth year.
	In the year 1855 the family moved to
Cardiff, a large sea-port town, in South
Wales, where my father was offered a more
remunerative position as a pattern maker, in
a large steel rail establishment. We were
then about twelve miles from the home of
my maternal grandmother, Mrs. Davis. I
can now picture in my mind the thatch
roofed farm house, with my dear old grand-
mother bustling around, going five miles to
meeting and willing to indulge me in every
way.
	In 1856 we were called to mourn the loss
of our baby sister, from cholera infantum.
My mother’s health was quite frail at this
time, and required the tenderest care and
attention from my sister and myself, and
although our change of residence did not
prove as successful in a pecuniary sense as
we expected, my mother felt confident that
the Lord was mindful of her pleadings. It
so happened that a year had scarcely elap-
sed when the light of the Gospel was
brought to her, by a good old lady who
came to do our washing. My mother
accepted it without any question or hesita-
tion, and it seemed to inspire new life in
her, so much so, that within a month she
was baptized and confirmed a member of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints.
	At my mother’s urgent request my eldest
sister and myself also, became members of
the Church. I yielded obedience to the

[Column 3]
Gospel from a desire to gratify my mother’s
wishes; for up to that time I had not given
much thought or reflection to matters of
religion, I was keenly sensitive and consci-
ous of right and wrong, but it seemed to
me sufficient, if a person lived up to the
golden rule, “do unto others as you would
have them do unto you.”
	In 1856 my father was baptized also and
became a member of the Church. He met
with great opposition from his relatives and
former friends, and up to this day my sister
Mrs. Samuel H. Hill and myself are the
only representatives of my father’s house in
the Church.
	In March, 1857, we commenced our
travels to the land of Zion. We sailed on
the “George Washington” from Liverpool 
and landed in Boston on the 17th, of April,
having been three weeks on the ocean. We
encountered some very severe gales, but all
things considered we had a fair and pleas-
ant journey as intermediate passengers. I
shall however, never forget the disagreeable
sensation of sea-sickness experienced upon
the voyage.
	We arrived in Iowa City, which was then
the terminus of the railroad, a week later.
The Saints were going from that point by
teams and hand carts. Instead of continu- 
ing our journey as at first intended, much
to my mother’s disappointment, my father
decided to remain there another year, so
that we could go with more comfort and in-
dependence. We did not however realize
our expectations; reverses came upon us.
There was no work my father could engage
in. My father and mother were both taken
down with ague and fever and were unable
to help each other or themselves for nearly
a year. Expenses accumulated so that we
had to dispose of our chinaware, cutlery,
and many other articles that we had pro-
vided for our use and comfort. It was then
that life’s stern realities dawned upon me
as never before.
	It was about this time that Governor
Kirkwood of Iowa and his wife engaged
me as second girl at fair wages. Although
they were kind and considerate, I realized
my position keenly as a subordinate and
subject to their bidding, which at first, was
quite a trial to me.
	I had many experiences of this kind but
the thought that I was thus able to assist
my parents in the expenses of home, gave
me courage, and made me more brave than
if I were the only one benefited by my labor.
	Then came an agreeable change; my
father regained his health and took a con-
tract to build Governor Kirkwood a frame
house which, when completed, netted us
quite a sum and enabled us to meet our
financial obligations. It was then decided
that I go to school, leaving the girls at
home with mother, while I worked for my
board with a Mrs. Dunlap whose home was
a mile nearer the school.
	It was there I met Mr. George M. Keen,
a cousin of Mr. Dunlap, who had come on a
visit from St. Paul, Minn. He was a
scholar and by profession a journalist.
When he left for his home a month later,
it was with the promise that we open up a


[Column One]
friendly correspondence. This was in July, 
1860, and on the 21st, of April, 1861, we
were married. My mother was very much
opposed to our marriage because he was
not of our faith and she desired to take all
of her children to Utah. It was in the same
month and year the civil war began, and
when the call was made for seventy-five
thousand volunteers, Mr. Keen could not
resist that spirit of patriotism that fills the
heart of every native born American when
his country is in jeopardy. He joined the
Second Iowa Cavalry, and was engaged in
active service in many battles, but escaped
unhurt, to return home and resume the
avocations of life. Eleven months after his
return he contracted a severe cold, which
developed into pneumonia and on the 6th, 
of September, 1865, he passed away.
	In the mean time, that is in the year
1862, during Mr. Keen’s service in the
Union army, I moved to Chicago with my
father and mother and spent part of the time
in Salem, Ohio, with Mr. Keen’s parents
who did all they could to make life pleasant.
	In 1868, I came with my parents to Salt
Lake City. We located in the 9th Ward,
where we were re-baptized and were re-
ceived as members of the Church. We sub-
sequently moved to the central part of the
city, where to meet the necessary expenses
we took in boarders. My father being un-
able to obtain employment as a machinist, 
became discouraged and had gone back to
Chicago, expecting my mother would re-
turn also, if left to depend upon her own
resources; but with the help of her girls and
the blessings of the Lord, we managed to
live and pay expenses. 
	House rents and provisions were then so
high that we could not afford to hire any-
thing done, and to keep the class of board-
ers we had, required unceasing labor; in
fact it was what my be called a slave’s life.
Notwithstanding our board rates were two
dollars per day, we could only pay the
rent and keep the table supplied. 
	Our relatives in Provo were constantly
urging us to go there and make our home
and upon my mother receiving a check
from my father for a liberal sum, my
mother decided to move to Provo, and
within a month we had bought a lot there
with one large room upon it, making it our
home, with an addition of a shed at the
back. We stored our furniture away until
we could make further building improve-
ments. 
	I am thankful that I had such a faithful
mother, for it was through her faith and
untiring efforts and loyalty to her religion, 
that I am indebted for being brought to
these mountains and for a name and stand-
ing in the Church of Jesus Christ in these
last days.
	We soon became identified with one of
the ward organizations and I was given a 
class in the Sunday School. It was there
in Provo I became acquainted with Sister
Emily Hart, who was a warm friend of my
dear mother. I was introduced by her to
Elder James H. Hart, to whom I was mar-
ried in 1873, with her full, and free consent
and approval, also that of my dear mother,
who believed in, and fully endorsed the
principle of plural marriage.
	In 1874 I moved to Bloomington, Bear
Lake County, Idaho, with my husband. I
was soon identified with the Bloomington
Sunday School and with the ward Primary
Association of which I was chosen and ap-
pointed President in the year 1879. I was
also a member of the Young Ladies’ Mutual

[Column Two]
Improvement Association at the same time, 
and was appointed Stake Secretary of that
organization the same year. I took great
pleasure and satisfaction in traveling with
the President, Mrs Nancy E. Pugmire and
her counselors in all parts of the Bear Lake
Stake of Zion and was honorably released
in September, 1903, covering a period of
twenty-four years.
	In the year 1884 I was chosen and set
apart as a counselor in the Stake Presidency 
of the Relief Society of this Stake of Zion, 
a position I still hold, being associated with
sister Julia Lindsay as her first counselor
and ably assisted by Mary J. Bagley as sec-
ond counselor.
	In conclusion I can say that in the labor
herein mentioned in which we have traveled
many thousands of miles, not in Bear Lake
County only, but in Rich County, Utah,
and in Star Valley, Uinta County, Wyom-
ing, formerly belonging to this Stake organ-
ization during all seasons of the year, and
sometimes in the most inclement weather,
that in these labors and associations among
the daughters of Zion and the noble moth-
ers in Israel, they have afforded the great-
est happiness that I have experiened during
my life. 
