                     BOX ELDER.

The Relief Society conference of the Box
Elder Stake convened Tuesday, December
8, 1993, President Susannah P. Booth pre-
siding. President Jane S. Richards, of
Weber Stake, and Sister Tribe, of Ogden,
were on the stand. Conference opened with
the usual exercises. President Booth re-
ferred to the prayer offered at the opening
of the meeting by Brother Kelly, thought

[Column 2]
it should inspire the audience to do better;
spoke upon punctuality, hoped the Lord
would bless them during conference.
Presidents Hannah Hooper, North ward;
Lydia E. Watkins, Beaver; Elizabeth
Loveland, Deweyville, each gave a good
report, and in the last ward they had been
saving Sunday eggs, which in two months
amounted to $30.
President Jane S. Richards addressed the
sisters, spoke of the last dispensation, was
glad to live in the days of Joseph Smith
the Prophet, mentioned some of the things
she had heard him say previous to his
death, alluded to her experiences the first
years in the valley, thought we should be
kind to one another and try to attend to our
duties.
Sister Tribe, of Ogden, was heart and
soul in the Latter-day work, felt we should
attend to the sick and needy, and live our
religion; said many good things.
Presidents Christine Jenson, Mantua; Sa-
rah Fridal, Elwood; Mary E. Wood, Wil-
lard, spoke well of the work in the respec-
tive wards.
President S. P. Booth made a few appro-
priate remarks, and after singing and bene-
diction by Counselor Emilia D. Madsen,
conference adjourned to 2 p.m.
Afternoon session opened by singing and
prayer by Counselor Louisa E. Peters, sing-
ing, roll call, minutes.
Sisters Mary Wright and Mary Rees bore
their testimony, and President Mary Sal-
mon, of Honeyville, reported the Society
there as doing well.
Counselors Emilia D. Madsen and Sister
Zella Rees spoke upon Gospel subjects, also
bore faithful testimonies.
A duet, “Don’t forget the old folks,’’
was rendered by Emma Vance and Emma
Lee. Sister Mary Harding, of Willard, oc-
cupied a few moments in speaking of en-
joyments that were expensive, and how
many blessings we missed that would cost
nothing
President Jane S. Richards, in her re-
marks, said she missed some of the faces she
had seen there formerly, but they had
passed away; felt it would be a gratification
to be worthy to meet them; gave some in-
structions from President B. W. Smith,
which were good and timely; thought we
lived in a day and age when there was an
opportunity of doing much good, prayed we
might have wisdom to treat our children
right.
Sister Tribe felt it would not be long be-
fore there would be no one left who had
seen the Prophet Joseph.
Sister Celestine F. Freeman was set apart
as corresponding secretary for the stake.
Counselor Lucien Snow spoke against
fault-finding and picking flaws in others;
thought we should examine ourselves; also
touched upon proper amusements.
President Charles Kelly expressed his in-
terest in the Relief Society work, his mind
had reverted back to the time when the
Prophet Joseph organized the society, and it
had always stood for the betterment of
mankind.
President Booth expressed her pleasure

[Column 3]
and satisfaction at the conference, and after
singing the benediction was pronounced by
Elder Lucien Snow, and conference ad-
journed for six months.
ANNIE H. LITTLEWOOD,
Asst. Sec.


