SKETCH OF THE LIFE OF SISTER MARY E.
		KNIGHT BASSETT.
	It has often been said that the lives of the
Saints are full of romance; that they read
as fiction, and not as real life. So it is
with that of the subject of this sketch,
whose history is woven in with the early
history of the Church, in the days of un-
bounded faith in, love for and devotion
to the great Prophet of the nineteenth cen-
tury.
	Sister Bassett’s advent into this world
occurred on June 16, 1836, at Gallatin,
Clay county, Missouri. Long since the
story has been told of the persecutions the
Missouri Saints endured. How they were
pillaged, driven and murdered. Homes and


[Column 1]
lands, the result of all their toil and labor,
they were forced to abandon. Some of
them walked barefoot over the dry stubble,
leaving bloody footprints at every step.
Oh, the pain, the suffering of those days!
Delicate women, small children, trudging
along beside their little possessions, leaving
mobs and forsaken homes behind. Peace
had only been transitory, the threats of vio-
lence numerous and frequent.
Uncertainty stretched before them, yet
they had an abiding faith that elsewhere
they would find a place of rest, where, un-
molested by those of other creeds, they
could worship God in their own way. Thus
early in her life--being only four years of
age—she was, with her parents and other
Saints, expelled from Missouri. 
Nauvoo the beautiful, situated on a bend
of the Mississippi river, became her home
for a time. From there her parents moved
to La Harpe, an adjoining town, where
they remained until the martyrdom of the
Prophet Joseph and his brother Hyrum.
This tragic event brought overwhelming
sorrow to the Saints. Darkness reigned
over Nauvoo. Fearful forebodings, grief
and lamentations were borne on the air.
Hunted and driven, mob violence on every
hand, many Saints fled into Nauvoo, the
family of Brother Knight being among the
number; here they remained until the exo-
dus of the Saints in 1846.
Well she remembers the miracle of the
quails, that were sent to the starving “poor
camp” on the banks of the Mississippi
river, opposite Nauvoo. Destitute, sick
and a hungered, prey to all the ills of the
poor, scarcely able to raise a hand to re-
lieve their dire necessities; want stamped
on each shrunken, pinched face, there
they were, those known as the “poor
camp.” The Mississippi rolling by was un-
mindful of their sufferings. The cold stars
in a winter sky, in pity gave their light,
but icy breezes almost froze these house-
less, homeless fugitives, made such by re-
ligious hate and intolerance, in the blaze
of the vaunted civilization of the nineteenth
century. But God was not unmindful of
them; their prayers reached beyond the
pale moon and glittering stars, even to
heaven’s throne. Those who were able
had gone in search of food, while the sick
lay all around. Suddenly a dark cloud
overshadowed the camp, but the stricken
ones did not wonder much—if they were
able to think at all—but just waited, not
knowing what was coming next, when, lo!
in untold numbers the quails flew down
among them; they had only to put out
their hands, take and eat. Once again
they would behold the miracle-food sent
from heaven and the salvation of God.
Joseph Knight, Sister Bassett’s father,
her grandfather, Joseph Knight, Sen., and
his brother, Newel Knight, were close
friends of the Prophet, even before the or-
ganization of the Church. At her parents’
home in Missouri the Prophet was a fre-
quent and welcome visitor. By her parents
she has been told, also by her older sister,
Mrs. M. A. Mills, now living, that the
Prophet often took her in his lap and fondly
caressed her. She remembers that in
Nauvoo she heard him preach in the bow-
ery, just west of the temple. But that
stately edifice is no more; not one stone
left upon another; nothing left to designate
where it once stood. After the expulsion
of the Saints, the spirit of destruction, not
yet satiated, was wreaked on the senseless
stone and wood. It was set on fire. For

[Column 2]
a time the Mississippi ran as blood, while its
grim banks and near surroundings were
dyed with the crimson hue. The sky was
ablaze, clouds banked each other in blood,
then the light went out, and the city was
desolate The temple its glory, the Saints
its strength and pride, all had vanished.
The ever thrilling story lives in history of
how the pioneers reached this land, each
succeding year saw another band wend its
way across the trackless plains, until all
were gathered who chose to come. Brother
Knight with his family reached Salt Lake
City in 1850. In common with others,
they laid loved ones to rest on the way,
for the old Mormon trail is marked by
graves from Salt Lake to the Missouri
river.

There they rest and mark the way,
Where the pilgrims trod;
’Till the resurrection day, 
There beneath the sod.
Ev'ning breezes wail around,
Coyotes screech in vain.
Nought disturbs their sleep so sound,
Nought wakes them again.

March 5, 1853, Sister Bassett entered into
the holy order of marriage, becoming the
wife of Charles H. Bassett, and is the
mother of nine children, six of whom are
still living. With her hnsband she has
aided in building this great mountain
commonwealth, where the children of the
Saints enjoy plenty and prosperity.
Losses, trials and perplexities fall to the
lot of all. She has shared in these, too,
but they have been sanctified to her, and
today she is beloved among women. Long,
too, she has labored among the poor and
distressed, been an angel of mercy to those
in need. Very early she identified herself
with the Relief Society, and was called to
preside over the Second ward in 1871,
which position she still holds. Loved by
her sisters, she is respected by all those
with whom she is associated, while chil-
dren and grandchildren rise up and call
blessed. Faithful and true, enduring all
things for the Gospel’s sake, how glorious
shall they be who so continue unto the
end. When Christ shall make up his jew-
els, resplendent shall they shine forever.

Who bear the cross shall wear the crown,
’Twas ever thus decreed;
And through the golden gates at last,
Pass on, from trials freed.

’Tis worth all suff’ring, all distress,
The joys of heaven to share;
To dwell with God in realms of bliss—
The sanctified are there.

Then as the sun the saints appear,
By blood they’re purified;
And through eternity they’ll praise
The Lamb, who for them died.

