FIRST WOMAN PHYSICIAN IN HOLLAND.
	On the 20th of March it will be twenty-
eight years since Dr. Aletta H. Jacobs, our
first lady doctor, took her degree. She
wss the first woman student at our univer-
ties, and had to go through all the un-
pleasant experiences which nowadays our
girls entering on a scientific course have no
occasion for. But she went on cheerfully,
and used her capacities in the service of
those who most heeded them. For some
years she gave gratis consultations for
women from the working classes in Am-
sterdam. Meanwhile she did not neglect
the women’s cause, and as she had made
the way for women into the medical pro-
fession, so she tried to do it into the larger
field of citizenship by demanding the bal-
lot, as well as her male colleagues. The
wise legislators of Holland then (1887) in-
serted the word “male” before voters in
the state constitution.
	Now, notwithstanding her busy life as a
practicing physician, Dr. Jacob is the pres-
dent of the Dutch Woman’s Suffrage As-
sociation, and one day may see her cause
triumph, when the proposed changes in the
constitution become law. She and her
husband, Mr. Gerritson, who as deputy and
alderman of Amsterdam, did much for
women’s employment, are true democrats,
working for peace and arbitration, and for
the uplifting of the degraded class and sex.
Dr. Jacobs now holds the office of vice-
president of the National Council of Women
of the Netherlands, and was recentiy elected
to be one of the delegates to represent her
national council at Berlin at the interna-
tional council meeting.
	The Dutch National Council of Women
will hold its annual meeting at the Hague
on April 5th. This year there will not be
reports from affiliated societies, for all the
three ensuing days will be taken up by the
congress on child protection, which is to
take place under the auspices of the Na-
tional Council. More than sixty associa-
tions who are interested in this work, and
consist of the most distinguished philan-
thropists of the country, have formed the
committee of arrangements for this con-
gress.
	On the first day (6th April), the care for
orphans and neglected children will be dis-
cussed by jurists and rescue workers; on
the second, the dangers for children at
school are to be considered by pedagogical
and medical authorities; and on the third,
the evil consequences of children leaving
school and being set to work too early are to
be pointed out by labor inspectors and
speakers from trades unions.
	As usual, the Dutch National Council of


Women extends a cordial invitation to
members of national councils in other coun-
tries, and would be glad to welcome those
who understand the language in the Hague
on the 5th of April.
	I should be glad if they could bring con-
gratulations to my friend on March 10th,
and visitors to our council on April 5th.
		Yours sincerely,
			MARTINA G. KRAMERS.
Rotterdam, February 10, 1904.


