HANNAH T. KING.


[Column 1]
SCRIPTURE WOMEN.
BY HANNAH T. KING.
[Continued].
	RUTH AND NAOMI - These two most
lovely and exemplary characters, can never 
be separated in time or in eternity. The 
history of Ruth ought to be read and 
studied by all young girls, and indeed even 
mature characters must be edified by the 
study of her purity and devotion. Naomi 
was her mother-in-law, she having been
left a widow with two sons, Ruth being 
the wife of one of them, but soon both the 
young men died, and their young widows
then gave fond affection to the mother of 
their loved ones, she also loved them very 
much; but after a little while, Naomi feel-
ing bereft and desolate, resolved to return
 to the land of Judah, and advised her 
daughters in-law to remain each in the 
house of her husband. But they wept 
bitterly at the thought of parting with the 
mother of their beloved husbands, and felt
 they could not leave her, but she used all

[Column 2]
her own sweet logic, full of beautiful prin-
ciple, that at last, weeping bitterly, and
kissing her affectionately, Orpah consented
to do as she wished her, and she bade her 
farewell; but the love and devotion of Ruth 
would not allow her to listen to her words, 
but clinging to her she sobbed forth "En-
treat me not to leave thee, or to return from 
following thee, for whither thou goest, I 
will go, and where thou lodgest, I will 
lodge; thy people shall be my people, and 
thy God my God; where thou diest, there
will I be buried; the Lord do so to me and 
more also, if aught but death part thee and 
me." Then Naomi could not resist her 
love, and devotion to herself; and permitted 
her to accompany her, and they went and 
dwelt in Bethlehem, in the house of Naomi.
And Ruth was obedient to her counsel like 
a child, and they were received by a very 
rich man, and treated with kindness and 
consideration, he was a relative of Naomi's 
and in due time he took Ruth as his wife 
according to the law of their faith, and 
through that lineage, in after years, came
the Savior of the world.
	Now we come to Hannah, a woman re-
markably blest of the Lord, she was living 
in plural marriage and was beloved and es-
teemed by her husband, but she had no 
child, while the other wife had several;
and "they went up out of the city yearly to
 worship, and to sacrifice unto the Lord of 
Hosts in Shiloh," and while there she
vowed to the Lord, that if He would give 
her a son, she would dedicate him from his 
birth to His service all the days of his life,
and the Lord heard and granted her prayer;
and in due time Samuel was born, and he 
was reared in the Temple of the Lord, his 
character is without spot or blemish, no
other in the sacred Scriptures, (except the 
Savior) can be so spoken of; and she carried 
him up to the Temple and said, "I have 
lent him to the Lord, as long as he liveth,"
and he worshiped the Lord there.
	Abigail next appears, and though her 
history takes up only half a chapter, it is 
very full and expressive. Her husband 
was a churlish and penurious man, and a 
drunkard, and rudely refused David, the 
champion of the armies of Israel, supplies 
for his starving soldiers, and David deter-
mined to take by force of armies, that 
which he had in all courtesy solicited, and 
had been refused; Abigail being apprized 
of his intention, calls her servants and 
orders them to collect a handsome and
suitable present for the generalissimo, and 
taking five of her maidens to accompany 
her, sets out for the Camp of Israel, and 
when she saw David she alighted from her
 mule, making the eastern salaam of bowing 
her face to the ground." Her language is 
womanly and beautiful, yet vigorous and 
prophetic; and David was so charmed by 
her modest eloquence, that he accepted her 
present for his needy soldiers and cancels 
the order he had issued, and the preparation 
he had made to wrest by force from Nabal, 
that which he had churlishly refused, and 
David candidly told Abigail that the Lord
had sent her to him to prevent him shed-
ding the blood of her household, and bid 
her go in peace to her house "see I have 
hearkened to thy voice, and accepted thy
peace offering."
	It seems we ought not to pass over Mi-
chal the daughter of King Saul whom he 
gave to David for a wife, and it appears she 
was true and faithful for a time, and even
at one time, by a stratagem, saved the life
of David, when her mad father had deter-

[Column 3]
mined to destroy him. But in after times 
when David had passed through much trial 
and persecution, and become king, and was 
returning home in triumph, bringing with 
him the ark of the Lord, had offered sacri-
fices to the Lord in gratitude and in the joy
of his heart "danced before the ark, Michal
 looked out of a window and despised him, 
and as he returned to bless his household,
 Michal came out to meet him," and spoke 
sneeringly and sarcastically to him, and 
David rebuked her in high-toned language,
 and it appears she was never again his 
wife; there is a mystery about all this, that 
Scripture has not seen fit to elucidate, but 
it seems she was a small-minded woman 
though a king's daughter, and was utterly 
incapable of appreciating her noble hus-
band; jealousy was probably a powerful
ingredient in her composition and charac-
ter, but silence is probably the most charit-
able commentary, and where doubt exists 
all should have the benefit of it, that is 
English Law and it is a righteous one.
	THE QUEEN OF SHEBA- Thirteen ver-
ses only, tell the history of her renowed 
visit to King Solomon, she came to see and 
hear his wisdom, his grandeur, and his 
greatness; she had been told of it in her 
own country but could not believe it, but 
she closes her exclamations of surprise and 
wonder by saying "The half was not told 
me! Happy are the men, happy are these 
thy servants who stand continually before
thee and hear thy wisdom," and they ex-
changed very precious gifts, and she re-
turned rejoicing to her own land. She was 
appreciative and was desirous of adding to
her own mind knowledge and wisdom.
How few possess this faculty, a small mind
 never, the truly great are ever humble and 
childlike, ever ready to learn.
	April I, 1878.


