TAYLOR STAKE.

I.—Woman, her Sphere and Mission.

	She openeth her mouth with wisdom and
in her tongue is the law of kindness. Wo-
man that feareth the Lord shall be blessed.
Prov. 31. God’s commandment to Adam
and Eve (Gen. 1:28 Gen. 3;16).

II.—Children are a gift from God. Doc.
	and Cov. Sec. 132.

	Care of parents in setting proper ex-
amples before their children. Instiling
faith in the hearts of their children.

III.—Virtue and Moral purity.

	A child most be taught purity from its
infancy. Pure thoughts make a happy
mind. Let your thoughts be chaste and
pure. Evil thoughts make vice and crime;
honest thoughts and noble deeds build a
character sublime.

IV.—Scolding and Threatening.

	Scolding and threatening are real sins,
govern by love and kindness. “Kind words
are bright flowers of earth’s existence.”

V.—Finding fault with our children.

	It is at times necessary to censure and
punish, but very much more may be done
by encouraging children when they do well.
Nothing can more discourage a child than
incessant fault finding on the part of its
parents.

VI.—Use of Drugs and Patent Medicine.

	Discourage the use of any deadening med-
icine to be given to our children. Encourage
faith in God and the ordinances of the
Gospel. Doc. and Cov. sec. 42.

VII.—Artificial feeding of Infants how
	prepared.

VIII.—Diet and Dressing of Children.

	How often, we notice mothers who with

[Column 2]
great earnestness study the cultivation and
treatment of flowers to make them healthy,
and beautiful, and neglect their children,
how to take proper care of those noble
spirits whom the Lord has entrusted to our
care that their little bodies may be healthy
and strong.

IX.—Moral Training of Children.

	It is a mistaken idea mothers that infants
are not capable of being trained in any
way until they are several months or a year
old.

X.—Care of Amusements for the Young.

	Evil of card playing amoung our people.
Juvenile Instructor Aug. and Sept. No’s by
Pres. Joseph F. Smith.

XI.—Order of Marriage.

	First step commence aright, may save
unhappiness. Doc. and Cov. Sec. 132.

XII.—Object of Relief Society Work.

	Also the object of our Mothers Work.
Ref. the Prophet Joseph Smith at the first
Relief Society meeting.
			HANNAH M. RUSSELL,
			ROZILLA GRANT,
