	ALBERTA, CANADA.

	The Relief Society conference of the Al-
berta Stake convened at the Assembly Hall,
in Cardston, August 24, 1903, President L.
Woolf presiding. After the opening exer-
cises, President Woolf congratulated the
congregation upon the favorable circum-
stances in which they were placed as a
community, the peaceful influence they en-
joyed and how the Lord had answered
their prayers.
	Sister Sarah B. Davies reported the Re-
lief Society of Cardston, said the sisters-
had 200 bushels of grain stored. Counselor
Jane Hinman gave an interesting account
of the visits to the several branches of the
Stake; they had excellent meetings and en-
joyed a good spirit.
	Counselor Ida S. Dusenberry, one of the
General Presidents of the Relief Society,
said she felt a calm, peaceful, and contented
spirit in their midst, knew the sisters were
living near the Lord and doing their duty,
thought the Spirit of God was never felt
to a greater extent than in testimony meet-
ings.
	Sister Rebecca E. Little, missionary, re-
ferred to the words of our Lord when the
people asked Him how they were to know
the Gospel was true. He answered by
their work. "Ye cannot gather grapes of
thorns or figs from thistles.” Though our
prayers are not answered directly, the re-
sult is good; she spoke of having visited
European countries; she eulogized the sis-
ters for living their religion, said she could
give a good report of them when she re-
turned to Utah.
	Choir sang, "Do what is right.”
	Counselor Rhoda Hinman, Sisters Eliza-
beth Hammer, Rose Woolf, Lydia Brown,
May Lula Ibez, Elnora Wight, Lula An-
derson, Hannan Anderson, Emily Norton,
Rhoda May and Elizabeth Webb each bore
testimony and said some very good things.
Elder E. J. Wood gave some of his experi-
ences on the Samoan islands.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m. with
singing; benediction by Rachel Archibald.
	Afternoon session, opened with singing,


[Column 1]
prayer and singing. Counselor Ida S.
Dusenberry was the first speaker. She was
not feeling well and only occupied a few
minutes, thought it was by being good to
others that we had the most joy; those who
remain at home and do not reach out a
helping hand become narrow-minded; paid
a high tribute to Sister Zina Y. Card,
thought we should all have greater charity
for the faults of our friends and become
broader-minded; read a letter from Presi-
dent Bathsheba W. Smith and said she sent
greetings to the sisters, she prayed for
them and desired their prayers for her.
Sister R. E. Little thought she realized
to some extent the great work the Saints
had done there and the sacrifices they had
made in the last sixteen years in settling
that land, felt they were nobler because of
their experiences, spoke upon philanthropy
and charity, and the Savior’s example; she
had found some of her girlhood friends since
being there, felt extremely happy in their
midst.
Singing, “Where the voice of friend-
ship’s heard.’’
Sister Zina Y. Card spoke elegantly upon
gratitude and kindly demonstrations and
mentioned that a wave of immorality
seemed to be going over the land; referred
to the Crittenden home for fallen women,
but thought that was only half the battle,
no woman ever fell alone—what about the
men?—they should not go free; felt how
happy and blessed women were who had
good, true husbands. Her remarks upon
unity were excellent.
President Mary L. Woolf rejoiced in the
good instructions given during the confer-
ence, spoke of the great work President C.
O. Card had done in organizing that land,
she had realized it in visiting the people in
the stake and noting the progress made by
them, and she felt his work would be re-
corded in heaven.
President C. O. Card expressed himself
as confident of the support of the brethren
and sisters in the labor he had performed,
the Lord had opened up the way for the
people to grow and expand, let them con-
tinue in good works.
Patriarch John A. Woolf addressed the
sisters on the subject of raising children.
President H. S. Allen thought the Latter-
day Saint women were the bravest women
in the world, spoke of the purity that ex-
isted among their young people in Canada,
gave good counsel and encouraged the sis-
ters to continue in good works. Confer-
ence adjourned. Benediction by Elder J. D.
Wood.
                                         M. L. WOOLF. 
                        _______

