D. R. STATE SOCIETY
	The daughters of the Revolution held the
regular monthly meeting Tuesday, Feb. 16,
1904, at the home of Mrs. Clarissa S. Wil-
liams. The handsome parlors were deco-
rated with the stars and stripes and other
effective emblems, pictures, flowers, etc.
The Regent Mrs. Isabel M. W. Sears pre-
siding. There was a very good number of
members present and after miscellaneous
business had been attended to the name of
Mrs. Israel Evans of Lehi was proposed for
membership and she was admitted with a
hearty welcome as well as by unanimous
vote.


The paper of the day was given by Mrs.
Carol Y. Cannon, subject Mrs. John Jay.
The paper was exceptionally interesting,
well written and read in a clear musical
voice and delightfully gracious manner.
The secretary Mrs. Lucy W. Smith read
from a very old paper published soon after
the death ol General Washington, an ac-
count of the funeral exercises. Mrs. E. B.
Wells read a Poem in memory of General
Washington contained in the paper from
which the secretary read; the verses were
written by a young lady and may be
found on another page of this issue of the
paper.
	Mrs. Wells mentioned that the day pre-
vious had been Susan B. Anthony’s Birth-
day Anniversary and felt we should all
pay a tribute to her as she was most cer-
tainly a patriot loved her country and had
done much for the women of the United
States and the world at large.
	Many tender words of love and esteem
were expressed by the ladies and all unitedly
joined in congratulations to the honored
woman who has sacrificed so much and lab-
ored so faithfully for the enfranchisement
of the women of her country.
	Mrs. Beatie spoke of the visit of herself
and Mrs. Wells to the home of Miss Voss
in Indianapolis during their recent visit in
that city. Mrs. Beatie gave a graphic des-
cription of the elegant and luxurious resi-
dence of Miss Voss with whom the two
ladies dined and told of the many unique
hangings, statues, pictures and bric-a-brac
the lady had collected in her travels abroad.
	The meeting adjourned to meet on Wash-
ington’s birthday Feb. 22nd, at the EX-
PONENT OFFICE to commemorate the anni-
versary of the great hero, patriot, states-
man and President, Father of his Country.
Dainty refreshments were served by the
young ladies of the household and, with
each plate a toy hatchet marked Feb. 1904
	The afternoon was delightful in every
way, there was some choice music and
the usual pleasant conversation.


[Column 1]
EXECUTIVE SESSION N. C. W., INDIANAP-
