	WASATCH.
	The Relief Society of Wasatch Stake held
a conference at the Stake Tabernacle Au-
gust 23, 1903. President Annie R. Duke
presiding. Official visitors from Salt Lake
City present: Sarah Jane Cannon, member
of the General Board, and Katie B. Hooker,
missionary. Meeting opened at 10 a.m.
with usual exercises, prayer by Sister Ann
Murdock. President Duke welcomed the
Saints one and all in a most genial manner.
Phoebe H. Bathers reported Danish soci-
ety, spoke upon love and charity. Charles-
ton reported by Mary Broadbent; society in
good condition.
	Sister Hattie B. Hooker praised the neat-
ness of the hall, gave some good points
in the mother’s work, said it was intended
to be a help to the young mothers in rear-
ing their children, also to elevate and edu-
cate the sisters thought parents should see
that the home is furnished with proper
amusement for children.
	Recitation—Sophia Lee.
	Sister S. J. Cannon, wife of the late
President George Q. Cannon, spoke of the
great benefits derived from the talks of ex-
perienced mothers who were united with
their husbands in training children; these
talks or lectures were grand opportunities
for the young people. The Saints should
know why the Prophet Joseph Smith or-
ganized this society. It is not only to aid
the needy and care for the sick, but to save
souls; teach your sons and daughters to be
virtuous, Sister Cannon urged the sisters
to try and create a fund of their own for
expenses in the ward.
	President Wm. H. Smart made a telling
address, in which he said if the society—
literary, spiritual and intellectual—work
for the mothers to prepare them for wife-
hood and house purposes, helping the
young women to be active instead of the
older sisters doing it all, it would make the
society successful; if you need teaching, go
to your leaders, who have the spirit of their
calling. President Smart said many good
things.
	Sister Duke felt thankful for the visitors
and the presence of the brethren.
	Adjourned until 2 pm. with singing;
prayer by Sarah Melissa Murdock.
	Afternoon session opened with usual ex-
ercises; prayer by Patriarch W. C. Mur-
dock. Sisters reported as follows: Heber
Second ward, Sarah Carlisle; Heber Third
ward, Johanna Jensen; Heber First ward,
Margaret Murdock—all in good condition,
taking care of the sick and needy, and at-
tending to other duties.
	Bishop Wm. Daybell and Bishop J. A.


[Column 3]
Boshard urged parents to teach their chil-
dren right and keep them home at night.
Center Ward Society reported by Rebecca,
Anderson, Rachel Lee, Elkhorn Dairy.
Bishop Jacob Probst of Midway praised the
sisters, felt the sisters had more of the
Spirit of God in their meetings than the
brethren, he thought we should study the
dispositions of our children when training
them. Bishop Robert Duke thought the
Relief Society one of the greatest aids in
the Church.
	Sister Cynthia Wootten spoke well of the
Midway Relief Society. Bishop Frederick
Crook of Midway, Bishop P. H. M’Guire
both alluded to the strength the Relief
Society gave to the ward.
	Elder Abram Hatch made some pertinent
remarks as to the perfect organization of
the Church. Sister Louisa Alexander and
Eliza Boshard spoke words of encourage-
ment to all. Elder James C. Jenson, of the
Stake Presidency told the mothers to be
careful in their conversation, especially
before children. The General and Stake
officers were sustained unanimously. Pres-
dent Duke made suitable closing remarks.
The visiting sisters had been obliged to
return home on acocunt of sickness. Ben-
ediction by Patriarch John Duke.
	SARAH R. DUKE, Secretary.
                         _________      
