WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			IN MEMORIAM.
	Sister Martha Jones Meacham, one of the earli-
est and most respected citizens of the Park Valley
ward, died on July 14, 1903 She was the president
of the first Relief Society organized in Park Val-
ley, in which she served faithfully for nineteen
years. She was the wife of E. D. Meacham, and
the mother of a large family, six of whom are still
living. The funeral services were impressive and
beautiful.	Much praise was given her by her
bishop and the speakers concerning her worthy
life and her amiable and loving disposition.
E. D. C.
	It is our sad duty to record the death of our be-
loved and noble sister, Sarah I. Raleigh, daughter
of Philip and Clarissa Pugsley, of Salt Lake City,
and wife of James A. Raleigh. She passed away

[Column 2]
after a severe illness, on December 6, 1903. She
leaves to mourn her loss a husband and three
daughters. She was a devoted wife and mother,
a true sister in the gospel, and a faithful member
of the Park Valley Relief Society, of which she
was secretary for ten years. We, the officers and
members of the Park Valley ward, deeply sympa-
thize with the bereaved husband and daughters in 
their loss, feeling also that they have been greatly
blessed by her wise and faithful example, Sister
Raleigh was president of the first Primary asso-
ciation of Rosette, a branch of the Park Valley
ward, for two years. She has also been president
of the Rosette Y. L. N. M, I. A. since it was first
organized in Rosette, and served up to the time of
her death. We feel our sister is not dead, but that
she sleeps, her spirit having gone to that bright
sphere, where the just await the time of the resur-
rection. Having slept in peace, she has secured
a title to be among the heavenly throng that will
accompany the Lord in glory when he shall come
in this creation to take the reins of government.
								E. D. C.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Therefore it is resolved by the sisters of the
Park Valley Relief Society, that we mourn the
loss of our late president and secretary, but that
we appreciate the goodness of their lives, and the
worthy example they have set us to follow;
	Resolved, That we extend to the bereaved our
sympathy, and pray God to comfort them, and
lead them to know what is their loss is the gain of
those that were taken from them.
	Be it further resolved, That a copy of these res-
olutions be inscribed upon the records of the Soci-
ety, and also published in the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
				President S. J. CAMPBELL,
							Park Valley, Utah.

