WOMEN IN ART AT THE EXPOSITION.

	As women’s interests in any walk of
life are identical with men’s the idea of
separating their exhibits from those of the
sterner sex seems to be invidious. Each
decade of the world’s history marks a
corresponding improvement of woman.
The patchwork and decorative exhibits
once a feature of State and National Fairs
are things of the past. Women applying
themselves to the higher walks of art, are
fast emerging from the chrysalis state
which has until the last few years been
deemed their proper place. In the Arts,
Sciences and Industries they have dis-
covered the outlet for talents hithertho con-
cealed in the embryo.
	In the Columbian Exposition women
were afforded opportunities of demonstrating
their ability along lines hitherto usurped by
men. The inaugurators of the “Louisiana
Purchase Exposition” which will be on a
more magnificent scale than that of any the
world has yet seen, have shown great
liberality toward women. Their work has
been placed on a par with that of men and
not separately classified as has been the
case in previous expositions. They were
invited to compete for decorations of the
various United States buildings and re-
sponded eagerly.  Genius has received its
adequate reward, and the talented young
women who have been awarded contracts
for artistic work will go forth to the world
as brilliant examples of what men are
pleased to call the weaker sex, can accom-
plish. It is gratifying to realize that women
have at least secured a portion of the half
million to be disbursed by the managers of
the Exposition for the beautifying of its
most important buildings and grounds.
	The assistant landscape architect is a
St. Louis woman, Miss Eda A. Sutter-
meister, and her talent has been embodied
in the artistic laying out of the Cascade
Gardens. There is a trio of artificial Cas-
cades, the most extensive ever before pro-
jected, which will send their crystal showers
down the graceful slope of the terraced hill
in front of the majestic Festival buildings
and the Colonnade of States, which form
the most important decorative feature of
the grounds.
	Miss Suttermeister’s botanical training
stood her in good stead, and she was chosen
to select the plants and flowers which are
to lend their requisite color scheme to the
fairy-like Cascade Gardens. Not only is
this lady possessed of a technical knowledge
of botany but she has revealed her executive
side by placing herself at the head of a corps
of gardeners whom she directed in the
setting out of the shrubs and flowers to be
planted on the grounds.
	Another St. Louis woman has demon-
strated her genius for sculptural work.
This young lady, Miss Carrie Wood,
daughter of Judge Horatio D. Wood of the
Circuit Bench of Missouri, whom inclina-
tion and not necessity induced to take up
modeling as a profession, has executed a
superb gilded figure called “The Spirit of
Missouri,” her native state, and which is
intended to crown the dome of the Missouri
State building. Miss Wood is a conscien-
tious student and has been working in the

[Column 2]
studio of the celebrated sculptor Jonathan
Scott Hartley of New York city.
	Miss Enid Yandell, whose fame is wide
spread, has modeled several figures of
heroice size in staff, with which to orna-
ment the buildings on Art Hill.
	Her statues of “Victory” will be placed
upon the domes of the twin restaurant
pavilions at the ends of the Colonnade of
States. Each figure is endowed with the
attributes of “Victory,” embodied in the
form of a woman, slightly draped and with
the graceful head coroneted with a victor’s
wreath of bay leaves. In one shapely hand
she holds a laurel crown, while with the
other she raises a bugle to her lips blowing
the blast of conquest.
	Miss Yandell is also represented by a
heroic statue of the trapper and hunter,
Daniel Boone in full hunting regalia. This
will be erected in a commanding position on
Art Hill.
	Mrs. H. A. McNeil contributes the
charming figure of a child riding a fish
intended to form part of the decorative
scheme of the Cascades.
	On Miss Melva Beatrice Wilson of New
York was bestowed the largest contract for
the sculptural work of a woman. The span-
drels of the Palace of Machinery are of her
design, a nude male figure on each side of
the Keystone of the arch being representa-
tive of the Mechanical Arts. Each detail is
worked out with painstaking fidelity. Miss
Elsie Ward of Missouri sends a magnificent
statue of Gen. George Rogers Clark, one
of the pioneer heroes of the West, which
will have a place on Art Hill.
	Miss Edith B. Stevens of New York is
the author of two splendid semi-nude
recumbent figures, male and female, to be.
set upon the pediment of the principal en-
trance to the palace of Liberal Arts.
	A fitting tribute to the diplomatic tact of
James Monroe, the special envoy to France
under President Jefferson, and who assisted
in the negotiations for the transfer of the
Louisiana Territory to the United States is
a statue in staff modeled by Miss Julia
Bracken of Chicago.
	To Miss Evelyn B. Longmans of New
York belongs the honor of executing the
magnificent sculpture of “Victory” which
will surmount the dome of the Palace of
Varied Industries.
	The work of those talented young
women will no doubt prove an object lesson
to women who visit the Fair, demonstrating
that genius,industry and perseverance win in
the long run, and that women with artistic
proclivities have been afforded an opportu-
nity of showing what they can do.
