[Vol2 | December 1915 | Sequence: 03b | Category: Article | Title: For a Safe and Sane Christmas and Withal a Merry One | Author: Fromade]

Why not abolish the practice of giving a multitude of Christmas
presents, just as we have done away with Fourth of July
fireworks ? Why not destroy the dangerous bombs of Christmas
present debts, banish the rockets of Christmas extravagance, and
explode the frightful fire-crackers of Christmas indulgences?
With the Yuletide fireworks abandoned, the celebration of Christmas
will naturally tend to become one of spiritual jubilation rather
than one of sordid gain.
Consider the present Christmas celebration of the average
person. Whether you take the case of a man or that of a woman,
it is much the same. Early in December the shops put on their
Christmas dress. They begin their display of Christmas scarfs,
neckties, handkerchiefs, gloves, ribbons, laces, toys, books, dolls
and nicnacs of every description. A man flounders about for days
in the pushing, crushing mob which besets the counters of the
gents' furnishings and the glove department. After much loss of
temper he succeeds in purchasing for his father, his brothers and
his men friends the conventional Christmas present. The presents
are not so fine as he would like, but they are as fine as he can
.afford. For his mother and his sister he buys gloves and handkerchiefs,
not so good as he would like, but again the question of
the purse comes into evidence. His sweetheart is to have a fan,
very pretty and costing more than he can rightly pay. The heart
often plays havoc with a bank account.
A woman hovers between the fancy work department and
the jewelry counter. She leaves no corner of the shop unhaunted,
for often a valuable suggestion comes from the most unexpected
corner. By Christmas eve her purse is drained of the last farthing,
her eyes are smarting from long and late hours of embroidering,
and her fingers are sore from much needle pricking. She is
happy, of course, in the lovely presents she has prepared, and still
she will be so glad when it is all over — Christmas is such a strenuous
time, you know!
Now if the man or the woman be married, Christmas celebration
by m eans of gifts is doubly hard. There are two families to
buy presents for, there are two sets of friends to be remembered,
all on the same salary which used to buy the presents for the
family and friends of one person.
"Oh, why does Jeanette send me a Christmas present? I
never associate with her any more, and she is entirely out of our crowd," wails the bride, not out of stinginess, mind you, but from
the depths of a distressed mind, weary with trying to make money
stretch to the limit.
"And I don't see how we can remember the Wiltons this
year, dear. I have my insurance to meet after Christmas," comments
the bridegroom.
"But we must scrimp something out for them somehow.
, Y ou know they would never get over talking about us if we
didn't," argues the bride fiercely. "I wish there were no such
time as Christmas !"
There is Christmas spirit for you !
If there are children in the family, Christmas becomes trebly
difficult and expensive, unless the parents are very wise in their
attitude toward the celebration of the day. Often, however,
foolishly fond parents think the day is not well noticed unless the
children are gorged and glutted to the content of their greedy
little hearts. Grocery bills are left unpaid so Willie can have a
fine big rocking horse with a real horse-hair tail. The dentist
must wait for his money until after Christmas so that little Mabel
can have a French doll that laughs and cries and says "Mama,
papa !" And all this worry and scurry for a Merry Christmas. If
you think the prevailing way of celebrating the day is bringing
"Great joy, peace on earth and good will toward men" watch the
face of the average Christmas shopper. The tired eyes, the pale
cheeks, the slight frown between the brows — wondering what to
buy and how to pay for it. And then the constant worry that
the gifts may not be appreciated and the spiteful, ungrateful words
which are spoken if the gifts are not up to expectations !
Is the dread of Christmas already upon you ? Is the worry
of Christmas gifts clutching at your heart? Then formulate a
safe and sane Christmas plan, and spend the merriest Christmas
you have spent in years.
There are many ways of doing such a thing — ways which
take courage to begin, for the unconventional way is always hard.
First, long before Christmas tell your friends of your plan to
celebrate the day without presents. Then you will not suffer the
embarrassment of receiving gifts which you do not in some way
return. Next, spend the time you save from Christmas fretting,
by enjoying the beauties of the season, by happy association with
your family and friends. Take time to look up at the Christmas
stars, twinkling with silvery crispness in the blue-black Christmas
sky. When Christmas comes, see to it that there is no human
being near you who is unhappy. Let the birthday of Christ dawn
upon no wretched child, no starving mother, and no freezing
father whose suffering you could relieve. Gather your family and friends around your fireside to recollect the story of the
Blessed Babe. Gather them in gaily, content with the thought
that your hand has done some Yuletide deed of love and charity.
Let there be kindly words and music and dancing and simple
dining. Ah! material trifles are swallowed up, the annual avalanche
of p incushions, glove boxes and sachet bags is diverted,
and you thrill with the joy of a Peaceful and Merry Christmas,
the forerunner of a Prosperous and Happy New Year !
Relief Society Recognized by the U. S. Government
Record.
We were agreeably surprised to open the late copy of the Reclamation
Record, which is the organ of the Reclamation branch
of the United States Department of Agriculture, published in
Washington, D. C, under the supervision of Hon. Franklin K.
Lane, Secretary of the Interior. We say we were delighted to
find the following words of praise and commendation for our
Society. Surely our light is set on a hill :
(Reclamation Record, Volume 6, No. lo, October, 1915.)
THE RELIEF SOCIETY.
"There is a splendid suggestion, especially for rural clubs.
in the work of the Relief Society, an organization of the 'Mormon'
Church. This organization has a total membership of over
45,000 women, who meet once a week. Once a month they work
for the poor or for some overworked member. Mending, sewing,
even cooking, is done, and is made the occasion of a most
sociable time. The next three meetings are devoted to typical
club work, literature, civics, home economics, etc. But special
emphasis is put on helping each other in times of overstrain, such
as sickness or disaster. It is not a charity organization in any
sense, but a co-operative movement among women who pool their
efforts and minister to an all-around womanhood. Assistance is
given in time of need to any woman, regardless of religion, race,
or nationality."
Officers of Reclamation Or^^anisation:
Hon. Franklin Knight Lane, Secretary of the Interior.
Brigadier-General William L. Marshall, United States Army,
retired, consulting engineer to the Secretary.
The following three officials of the Reclamation Service constitute
ab oard or commission for the purpose of considering all
questions of administrative policy and management, and recommending
action thereon to the Secretary of the Interior :
Arthur Powell Davis, director and chief engineer, Washington,
D. C. ; W ill R. King, chief counsel, Washington, D. C. ; W .
A. Ryan, com]:)troller, Washington, D. C.
