[Column 2]
the German graves! Beyond the white
walks are trees, shrubs and flowers. Now,
as winter is approaching, the nice head-
stones are covered by means of heavy
wooden slides, made to fit them, so that
they are protected from the inclemency of
the weather. Frail monuments are likewise
protected. Nicely dressed people are going
hither and thither some carrying wreaths
and others placing them, while some are
sitting in meditation near the resting places
of their loved ones.
	A favorite inscription in this land is
“Resting in God.” Is it prompted by an
abiding faitn in Him? Is it true that these
sleeping multitudes thus await the sound
of the last trump? But what a disappoint-
ment that time will bring! Nothing be
as we think, perchance not as we desire.
What then? Well it is that an all-wise
Judge will scan our records, and to each
one will give all that justice tempered with
mercy can bestow.
	Not a discordant sound is heard, not a
boisterous tone or peal of laughter, but the
greatest respect everywhere. Everything
seems to be of hallowed memory.
In most of the German homes, they can-
not long keep their dead. They have but
few rooms. and live in all of them. There
are generally two families, one in each
Luppe, so that seventy-five or a hundred
people live in each house. When a death
occurs, they prepare the body for bnrial,
and it is taken to the church in the cemetery,
and often lies for some hours in the dead
house attached to it.
	One does not often see a single hearse,
but on the back is a carriage, having two
back wheels, the hearse serving for the two
front ones, or a carriage with a receptacle
for the little casket, crosswise, put at the
back of the driver. In this way expenses
are reduced at this sad time.
	It is said that the clergy reap a rich har-
vest at these seasons, for it is considered a
disgrace to lay relatives away without a
long sermon being read over them. So if
this is desired, and that he also wear his
fine robes, they must pay a high price. A
German funeral often costs hundreds of
marks when the family can illy afford it.
Todenfest is the winter remembrance
of the dead, while June 24th of each year
corresponds to our Decoration Day.
