[Column 1]
		TODENFEST.
	Todenfest is a remembrance day of the
dead, and was observed on Sunday, No-
vember 20, 1904, in the customary way in
Saxony. The cemeteries were thronged
from early morning until the shades of even-
ing hid them from view. The New Cem-
etery (as it is called, though quite an old
one,) in Leipsic was most beautifully dec-
orated. On almost every grave floral of-
ferings, many of them large, costly
wreaths. None are admitted here for bu-
rial, only members of families who already
own the ground.
	It covers quite a large area, and is laid
out in divisions, separated by thick stone
walls.
	In one of these divisions is quite a large
plot, wherein are interred a number of
French soldiers who fought under Napo-
leon in 1813, and sixty-five prisoners of
the war of 1870-71, and opposite to it one
of equal size where are German soldiers
who fell in the Franco-Prussian war of 1870-
71. A large monument in the center,
enclosed by iron rails and chains, gives
their names and designates their calling.
The plot is enclosed by iron chains passing
through stone posts, and has two entrances,
the posts on either side formed as a cannon,
gilt bands, lettered, twined around them,
and gilt spikes at the mouth, representing
the cannon's fire, while at the base of each
are a number of cannon balls, some large
others small. On these graves are some
flowers, and a number of head plates.
Among the ivy, on one of them, under an
oval raised glass cover, are two hands
clasped together.
	How strangely one feels, to see them
there, down among the ivy! Throngs of
visitors come and go through, looking at
the graves and reading what is on the mon-
uments.
	The French graves are without a flower;
a single wreath, French colors showing
through it, hangs on the center monument,
while at the base of the other monument is
a metal plate placed there by the French
society, which states that “here are en-
tombed a number of French soldiers of the
war of 1813.” How desolate they look,
the heavy iron chain surrounding them, in
its stone posts, and no entrance for visitors!
Alone, though people are all around them,
and the graves on either hand so profusely
decorated that they have the appearance of
a sea of flowers!
	But they are far away from sunny France
—far from her vine-clad hills, buried here
among hostile strangers. Are they forgot-
ten because these multitudes pass them
coldly by, or speak of them as the French?
No! far away, tears have fallen, hearts have
broken, because they who marched so gal-
lantly to war, returned not again, but laid
down in a foreign land to die.
	But these graves, as the others, are well
kept, and covered with thick ivy (which is
trained all over the graves in this land, in-
stead of grass). In one corner a small
monument tells of the officers interred
here.
	Hundreds of people are thronging the
wide, white walks and roaming among the
graves. Here and there is the grave of one
newly dead, and they are elaborate affairs,
about five feet high and two long, covered
with palm leaves, evergreens, flowers,
wreaths and wide ribbon sashes of various
hues, and in them mottoes or inscriptions
in gold letters. How much is expended on

