stopped. When it did stop they put us on
the right train and sent us back. We
didn’t have to pay a cent for the extra ride
and saw lots of Holland and Germany
which we would not have seen otherwise.
	We got back to Rotterdam about eleven
o’clock instead of six, and as we had
missed our train we had to stay there all
day. We took a train for Berlin about
seven that evening. We were on the train
all night, and as it wasn’t a sleeping car
we didn’t get much rest. We arrived in
Berlin the next morning and were met by
an Elder. We started right out to see the
city, going first to the Kaiser’s church.
This is a beautiful building both inside and
out  As it was Sunday, they were having
services there, and so we didn’t stay very
long. We then went out to Charlottenberg
and visited the mausoleum where the tombs
of some of the German knights and queens
are. Just as you enter the building there is
a statue representing the Angel of Death.
There is a large blue skylight, and as that
is the only light in the building everything
looks very dismal. There are four large
tombs there, and they are all lovely, but my
favorite was the one of Queen Louise. They
are all pure white marble and there is a life
sized statue of the person who is in the
tomb on top of each one.
	That evening we went out to the princi-
pal part of the city and saw a number of
pretty places We went to the Reichstag,
capital building, and it is one of the pretti
est buildings I ever saw. In front of it are
some fountains and a statue of Bismarck.
Then we went to the Victory monument,
which I like better than any monument I
have ever seen. It is in memory of the
victories won over the French. We walked
from here down the Victory Avenue. This
is a beautiful street, having statues of the
rulers of Germany from 1100 up to the pres-
ent time. The statues are not very pictur-
esque, but very interesting. We went next
to the Wagner monument This is also a
very pretty monument, being a statue of
Wagner surrounded by figures representing
his four greatest operas. Then we went to
the Thier Gardens, and stayed their until
after ten listening to the music. The mus-
ic in Germany is the loveliest I have ever
heard. You hear a band almost everywhere
you go and they are all very good ones.
	The next morning we went first to the
Kaiser’s palace, which was very beautiful,
but overladen with gold and silver. The
bed, bed room and prayer room of Freder-
ick the Great are there. The prettiest room
is the large senate room, where the Senators
met before going to the Reichstag. This
room is also used for a banquet hall.
	Then we went to the Zeug Haus, which
is a large building full of war paintings,
instruments of war, old flags, etc. It was
very interesting.
	Then we went to the Royal stables, and
think the building is much too pretty to

[Column 3]
be used for a stable. There were hundreds
of horses and carriages which were all very
beautiful, but only for show. I don’t sup-
pose many of them are used once in a life-
time.
	From there we walked up the noted street,
Under den Linden. I was dlsappointed in
this street, as I had heard so much about it
and was expecting more than I got The
trees look like they have just been put in
lately, and are too small to give as much
shade as is necessary to make it real pleas-
ant. At the top of this street is anarch
that was at one lime the gate to a wall. On
top of this arch is a bronze chariot that rep-
resents victory. This chariot was captured
by the French some years ago and placed on
the Triumphal Arch in Paris but was later
taken back to Germany.
	Next we went to the panorama and saw
the destruction of Port Arthur and a regu-
lar battle on the sea. There were about
twelve little war vessels about ten or twelve
feet long. They were built just like war
ships, and so we got a pretty good idea of
naval battles.
	From there we got a car and took a love-
ly car ride through Grunewald, green forest,
which is the principal residence part of the
city. It is very pretty out there, and there
are some lovely homes. On our way back
we stopped at the Terrassen an Halensee,
which is a large building built in the Egyp-
tian style. It is real odd, but pretty, and
is a sort of a summer resort. The building
is used for a restaurant, the gardens are
lovely and there is a large bathing pond
near.
	The next day we went to the art galler-
es. First we went to the new art gallery,
which is very nice and has some lovely
pictures in it. Then we went to the old
one which has mostly all statues in, there
wasn’t much to it, and I thought most of
the statues were hideous.
	Then we went to the largest store in Ger-
many. It was a lovely store and I saw lots
of things which I wouldn’t have minded
having, but of course I couldn’t have
everything I wanted, and so I didn’t buy
anything.
	Next we went to the Art Exhibit. Most
of the pictures there were the new art, and
liked some of them very much. They
had rooms furnished in the new art furni-
ture, and they were very interesting and
pretty. I like the new art very much,
especially the furniture and jewelry.
	The next day we went to Dresden and
spent the day. We were most of the time
in the art galleries and they are the finest I
have seen at all. There are a great many
noted pictures in these galleries and nearly
every picture there is a perfect gem.
	After leaving there we went out to the
snmmer residence of the King of Saxony
It is built on the Japanese style and is very 
odd, but picturesque. The gardens around
it are just lovely.
	We didn’t get back to Berlin until after
ten that night and left early toe next morn-
ing for Copenhagen. We went from Berlin
to Copenhagen, part way by boat a[-]d part
by train, arriving there about seven o’clock


