ANNIE E. FULLER; Sect


“Mrs. Katherine Breshkovskaya, the Si-
berian exile, now visiting this country, 
mentioned during her recent visit to Boston
an interesting fact bearing upon the much-
discussed question whether the Russian 
peasantry are yet capable of self-govern-


ment. There are in Russia two provinces,
Viatka and Perm, where there are no
nobles, and the peasants manage their own
affairs. These two “peasant provinces”
have the best roads, the best schools, the
best-paid teachers, and the largest number
of libraries and technical schools, of any
provinces in Russia. Every town in Viatka
maintains an academy for girls, and would
maintain one for boys, too, if the govern-
ment would allow it. But the government
permits only a few academies for boys. The
peasant girls who graduate from the acade-
mies become teachers, nurses, doctors’ as-
sistants, etc., but after all such places are
filled, there are many educated girls left.
These marry uneducated peasant men. But
it is noticeable, Mrs. Breshkovskaya says,
that whenever there is an educated mother,
she keeps her husband’s hut very clean;
and  she educates both her daughters and
her sons. Mrs. Breshkovskaya says the
peasants manage their local affairs with
much discretion and common sense, in
marked contrast to the stupid, wasteful and
corrupt way in which the imperial govern-
ment squanders its money and mismanages
all its business.”
	Lady Henry Somerset, in a recent article
on the simple life, says: “It would be in-
teresting to analyze how much real happi-
ness come to the man who has made or in-
herited a large fortune, and feels it neces-
sary to live in what is called ‘adequate
style ’ He builds himself a palace, engages
a troop of servants, begins to collect pic-
tures, furniture and objects of art, and he
little knows that he is heaping upon himself
a world of trouble. A man with a moder-
ate income, who has no requirements be-
yond those which he can well supply,
who lives in a house where his things give
him no anxiety, but in refined, tasteful and
simple surroundings, who can afford to see
his own friends because he cares for them,
and not a host of people who have to be
asked because it is the right thing that they
should be seen at his home, is the really
happy man.” 
	John Barrett, United States minister at
Panama, has given a fund to be used in
prizes for the best papers on the relations of
the United States with the Latin-American
republics. The prizes are to be open to
competition by young men and women now
in the regular courses of any college or
university of recognized standing in the
United States


Woman's Exponent.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.
