[Column 1]
		RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
			WAYNE STAKE.
	Relief Society conference was held at Loa
August 13, 1904. Visiting Sisters Susan
Grant and Sarah J. Cannon of the General
Board, Prest. Jane S. Coleman presiding.
Singing, “We thank thee, O God, for a
prophet,” prayer by Elder Joseph Eckers-
ley. Singing, “High on the mountain
top.”
	Prest. Jane S. Coleman was pleased to
meet with the sisters in conference. Re-
ported her labors in the stake; all in good
running order, prayed the Lord to bless us
in our conference. The president called
for reports, six branches were satisfactorily
reported out of ten.
	Counselor Sarah S. Forsythe was pleased
to have visiting sisters with us in confer-
ence, and prayed the Lord to bless us with
such instruction as is necessary for our
calling in the Relief Society.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon was pleased to
meet with the brethren and sisters in con-
ference and to see so many young sisters in
meeting; said our subject should be the
work we are engaged in, spoke of the
growth of the Relief Society; and added,
“our first duty is to look after the poor,
teachers should be very wise and very gen-
tle, smiles are contagious, every day of our
lives do some good act; spoke of the care
of grain, if you approach the brethren
right they will help you a great deal; don’t
raffle quilts.” Spoke about Mother’s work
and many other subjects.
	Sister Susan Grant was pleased to see so
many young mothers with babies in con-
ference, was pleased that the sisters
are united; the older we grow the nearer
and dearer the Gospel seems; the R. S.
work is a great and responsible work, the
younger sisters will get an experience by
attending R S meetings, we always miss
a blessing when we miss a meeting; desired
to encourage the sisters, and do good.
	Counselor G. S. Bastian was pleased to
meet with the sisters in Relief Society con-
ference, practical talk is the most interest-
ing: appreciated the labors of the Relief
Society presidency of the Wayne Stake.
Prayed the Lord to bless us in our confer-
ence. Singing, “Redeemer of Israel.”
Meeting ajourned till 2 p. m. Benediction
by John T. Lazenby.

	Afternoon session. Prest. Coleman pre-
siding. Singing, “Now let us rejoice”
Prayer by Patriarch E H Blackurn. Sing-
ing, “How firm a foundation.”
	The General Board and Stake officers
were sustained. Stake missionaries Lor-
enteng Ostberg and Leah Blackburn spoke
and bore testimony.
	Lucinda Brown said: We should keep in
mind what we have heard and practice it in
our lives.”
	Sister Susan Grant felt that the spirit of
the Lord was with us in our meeting, trust-
ed in the promises of the servants of the
Lord; said sisters should encourage their
husbands in their duties; have attractions
at home for your children, precept is good
but example is better, we have been
promised that this Gospel will never be
taken from us.
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon felt to endorse all
that had been said, we are very much
blessed to be members of the Relief Society;
what we do, do it well; Relief Society work
means good wives and good mothers, said
we should try to have a little means in our

