[Column 2]
burg but the parks and a forest, so after we
had seen those we didn’t have much to do,
so sat around the hotel and went for little
walks
	We left Gothenburg Tuesday morning
and arrived in Christiania about three
o’clock that afternoon. That evening we
went to one of the parks and heard a real
good orchestra.
	We spent most of the next day on one of
the mountains near the city and it is one of
the prettiest places I have ever seen. We
walked to the top of the mountain where we
got an excellent view of the city.
	The next day we visited one of the pal-
aces and went to the oldest Christian church
in Norway. It is the funniest little build-
ing I have ever seen and just as dark as pitch
inside. It rained the next day, so we
didn’t go anywhere in the morning, but in
the afternoon we went to the Art gallery.
They were moving from one building to
another, so we didn’t see much. There is
a shed near the museum and in it is one of
the old Viking ships which was dug out of
the clay on the seashore. It is almost “gone
up the spout,’’ but is still very interesting.
	The next morning we took the tourist
boat and rode around for two hours and a
half on the Christiania Fjord and it was a
lovely ride. Then for a change we went to
another park and got another view of the
city, but it was not a very clear day, and so
the view was not as good as some we had
had.
	The next day was Sunday, and so we
didn’t do a thing but go to meeting, and
the next day we left for home. We went
home by way of Copenhagen, Kiel, Ham-
burg and Rotterdam, but didn’t stay in any
one place long enough to see anything. We
saw a lot of German battle ships in the
Kiel harbor, and I never saw such enorm-
ous things in my life. We were all deathly
sick crossing the North Sea. We left papa
at Christiania and he had another three day
water trip before him, so we all thought of
him while sea sick and felt sorry for him.
	We got home on the 25th of August,
just in time to rush down to the landing
stage and see Brother Robinson and Laura
Foster off. We were very glad to get here
in time to say good by to them.
	We were all very glad to get home, and
only wished we could have brought papa
with us.
	Well, all the news is told, so I will close
with lots of love to all, especially yourself.
	From your loving granddaughter Grace.
Liverpool, England, Oct. 10, 1904.


