[Column 1]
	(d) Nature’s food best, how often given.
	(e) Hygienic clothing,and plentiful mas-
sage with olive oil.
Lec. 5th.—Childhood.
	(a) Bright looks and gentle tones the
child’s birthright.
	(b) The character of the child a special
study.
	(c) Prayer taught at the mother’s knee,
and early imprsssions of faith in God.
	(d) First principles taught, obedience,
truthfulness, honesty and respect for the
priesthood and those in authority over
them.
	(e) Faith in ordination taught by pre-
cept and example.
Lec. 6th.
	(a) Co-operation of parents necessary for
future welfare of child.
	(b) Special teachings necessary when
child leaves home to attend district school.
	(c) Example set by others not always
worthy.
	(d) Care taken to guide children in choice
of companions.
	(e) Bad effects of continual fault-finding.
	(f) Parents should control themselves
before correcting child.
	(g) Cultivate spirituality and develop by
constant care. (Ref. “Fireside Talks,”
Carl G. Maeser.)
	Committee on Mothers’ Work, Summit
Stake.
			ONEIDA STAKE.
	Lesson 1st. Marriage,
		Ye kindred spirits filled with mutual love,
		Pure as the dews descending from above,
		All hail! for you the sacred keys are given,
		To make you one on earth and one in heaven,
		Be fruitful then, and let your race extend;
		Fill Earth, the stars and worlds that never end.
							Key to Theology.
	1. Marriage is ordained of God unto
man, Doc. & Cov. Sec. 49-15. 2. The
great purpose for which marriage was or-
dained is to fulfill that first divine law given
in the beginning— “Multiply and replen-
ish the earth,” Gen. 1: 28. Heb. 13: 4. 3.
Those contemplating marriage should pos-
sess a proper knowledge of the laws of life
and have a reverence for God’s laws con-
cerning the marriage relation. Key to The-
ology, page 165 166. 4.Warn our girls
against the delusive hope of reforming after
marriage a man whose habits before were
bad. 5. Justify advice by giving example
of lives which have been wrecked in this
way. 6. Kind of marriage approved, Doc.
& Cov. Sec. 132-15-18-19. Key to Theo-
logy, page 162.
	Lesson 2nd. Personal appearance and
cleanliness.
	“Cleanliness is indeed next to Godliness.’’
	1. Importance of cleanliness in person
and dress. Doc. &. Cov. Sec. 42-40-41.
2. Effect of personal appearance in society,
in the home, and in business. 3. Clothing
of expectant mothers should be both
healthful and becoming. 4. Good effects
of early training in cleanliness and personal
appearance. 5. Fashions and frivolities
of Babylon should be discouraged. (Brig-
ham Young) Journal Discourses, Vol. 16
& 17 page 27. Doc. & Cov. Sec. 42-40-41.

