[Column 1]
that evening. The next day we started out
to see the sights of Copenhagen, which
were not many. First we went to the Art
Gallery, but as it wasn’t very large and had
no noted pictures in, we didn’t stay very
long. Then we went to Thorvaldsen’s
Museum. This was very interesting and
all the sculpture work there was done by
Thorvaldsen. There are some very beauti-
ful statues in it.
	That afternoon we went to the Zoologi-
cal Gardens where I saw lots of animals
which I have heard and read about, but
that I have never seen before. Then we
walked through some real pretty parks back
to the hotel. I suppose you know there
is not so much to see in Copenhagen as in
Berlin.
	The next day we went to another pretty
park and the harbor, and then to a large
forest near the sea shore. We passed the
King of Denmark’s palace, but as visitors
were not being admitted then, we could not
go through it. We took a boat that even-
for Malmo and from there we took a train
for Stockholm. We arrived in Stockholm
the next morning. We had a sleeping car.
The first I have seen over here, and they
are nothing to compare with the ones at
home, but much better than sitting up all
night.
	This afternoon we went through the
king’s palace, and it was real nice. There
is a museum there of old costumes and I
never saw such funny dresses in my life as
saw there. The guest’s rooms were love-
ly and I wouldn’t mind being a guest there
myself.
	That evening after meeting we took a
walk through some of the parks. Stock-
holm is a very beautiful city, and has the
loveliest location of any city I have seen.
You can’t go anywhere without crossing
bridges or taking ferry boats. It is called
the Venice of the North.
	The next day we went first up on an ele-
vator and got a lovely view of the city, and
then we went through an old church where
some of the kings and queens of Sweden
are buried. It was a very dismal place.
Then we took a ride around the city and
saw the residences, which were all real
pretty. Then we went to the north mu-
seum, which was very interesting. It is
full of old costumes, furniture, kettles, etc.,
like are used in some of the country parts
of Sweden at present. From there we took
a boat and went around one of the islands;
it is the prettiest boat ride I have ever had.
Both shores were covered with forests and
the water was very smooth, so it made a
beautiful sight.
	The next day we went to the National
Museum which is full of pictures, and stat-
ues. There were no noted pictures, but
some very fine work.
	That afternoon we went out to the king’s
summer palace, which is on one of the
islands not far from the city. We went
through the palace and walked around the
grounds. I liked the palace very much but
I liked the grounds better.
	We left Stockholm the next morning for
Gothenburg. We were on the boat three
days, and although the scenery was perfect-
ly lovely, it was the same thing over and
over, and so soon became tiresome. We
all got sea sick the second day while on one
of the big lakes. We saw some falls which
are said to be next to Niagara, but I don’t
think the two can be compared. Maybe it
is because Niagara is in America.
	There wasn’t anything to see in Gothen-

