A RELIEF SOCIETY SOCIAL.
	With the departure of Sister Hattie Blair
for Utah where she expects in the future to
make her home, the Brooklyn conference
loses one of its most va iant workers, and
our R lief Society its president. We shall
indeed miss her pleasant face, for she is like
a streak of sunshine wherever she goes.
	Especially will the family of Sister Joanna
Simms, who has been ill this winter at the
hospital and the care of whose six little chil-
dren fell upon the Relief Society, appreci-
ate the efforts of Sister Blair, when she is
far away in Zion
	At the mission headquarters, on Feb-
ruary 14, a genuine surprise was planned
for Sister Blair who came bustling into our
regular weekly evening meeting, as she
supposed. One needs only to attend a so-
cial gathering of Saints and missionaries to
feel the true spirit of love and unity which
is characteristic of the “Mormons.”
	A splendid impromptu program, in which
a new piano figured conspicuously, made
the earlier hours pass pleasantly.
	The ready response of Sister Ellen Thom-
as, Elders Kennard and Pack, with Sister
J. R. Clark as accompanist, as well as the
singing of the different groups of Elders,
was very much appreciated.
	Sisters Givilliams, White and Leone
Taylor gave literary numbers very credit-
ably.
	Sister Taylor also furnished American
Beauty roses and carnations (her Valentine
from Utah) which added to the evening’s
pleasure.
	Part of the program consisted of the re-
lease of Sister Bla r and the appointment of
Sister Sadie G. Pack of Utah as president of
the society.
	Remarks were made by President John
M. McFarlane, Sister Blair and counselors,
and President Pack. Refreshments were
served, after which Counselor Annie Mae
Clark, in behalf of the society, presented
Sister Blair with an autograph album, full
of expressions of love and blessings from
her friends. Games and charades made mer-
ry the later hours till good nights were
said.
	Much praise is due the secretary of our
society, Sister Belle Shaffer, for her able
management of the affair. Also President
and Sister McQuarrie, whose hospitality we
enjoyed.
	I will close with a tribute from one of the
Saints to Sister Blair, read during the eve-
ing.
						E. I. L.
			A TRIBUTE.
	Since I cannot mingle my voice with
yo[-]rs tonight, I desire to send my mite in
the entertainment and cheer of her in whose
honor you have met.
	Dear Sister Blair, whom I have learned to
love as one of my own kin, what a joy it
has been to know and to labor with her!
	And cannot all of the sisters say the
same? During the brief time she has been
our president, who shall estimate the work
she has performed? Not great deeds which
make a glittering show, but little acts of
charity and love, the object for which our
society was organized. Only fnture years
will enable us to realize and appreciate such
work, while those poor and needy among
us to whom her efforts have been more
closely directed will love and praise her
memory when she is far away.
	In contemplating the splendid example
she has been to us, of virtue, patience, love
and sunshine, Solomon’s eulogy to his ideal
of womankind seems most fitting to her.
	“Who can find a virtuous woman? for her
price is far above rubies. The heart of h[-]r
husband doth safely trust in her, so that he
shall have no need of spoil. She will do for
him good and not evil all the days of her
life. She seeketh wool and flax and work-
eth willingly with her hands. She riseth
while it is yet night and giveth meat to her
household, and a portion to her maidens.
She considereth a field and buyeth it with
the fruit of her hands she planteth a vine-
yard. She girdeth her loins with strength.
She perceiveth that her merchandise is
good, her candle goeth not out by night.
She layeth her hands to the spindle, and
her hands hold the distaff. She stretcheth
out her hand to the poor, yea she reacheth
forth her hands to the needy. She is not
afraid of the snow, for all her household is
clothed in scarlet. Strength and honor are
her clothing and she s[-]all rejoice in time to
come. She openeth her mouth with wis-
dom, and in her tongue is the law of kind-
ness. She looketh well to the ways of her
household and eateth not the bread of idle-
ness. Her children rise up and call her
blessed; her husband also and he praiseth
her.”
	That all of God’s choicest blessings may
be the future for our sister is the wish of
