MISS ANTHONY AND POLYGAMY.

Boston Woman's Journal, Feb. 11, 1905
	Opponents of Equal rights for women are
scattering broadcast through the press ac-
cusations that the woman suffragists, and
especially Miss Anthony and Mrs. May


Wright Sewall, favor polygamy. Dean
Swift said that it was remarkable how few
persons were skillful liars, considering the
large number who practice the art. In all
his experience, he declared, he had not met
with more than three good lies. This lie
about Miss Anthony and Mrs. Sewall is a
particularly clumsy one. Miss Anthony’s
pet idea, to which she has been devoted for
a life-time, is equal rights for women. Can
anyone seriously suppose she would favor
allowing a man to have a dozen wives when
a woman is only allowed one husband?
Mrs. Sewall was largely instrumental in
getting the International Council of Wo-
men to pledge itself to work for an equal
standard of morals for men and women;
and she is much more conservative in her
ideas on the marriage question than most
of her critics, or than the average of the
community.
	The whole outcry is based upon the fact
that Mrs. Sewall last summer expressed
herself as opposed to expelling from the
Woman’s Council a charitable society of
Mormon women which had belonged to the
Council for many years and because Miss
Anthony lately said she bad more respect
for a Mormon who imagined that he had a
religious sanction fo- his deeds, than she
had for a nominal Christian who lived an
immoral life.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall defined her po-
sition in a letter published in the Woman's
Journal of May 21, 1904. She said:
	“I not only believe in the monogamic as
the o[-]ly form of marriage compatible w[-]th
an ideal home, serving the highest spiritual
development, but I further believe that
marriage should never be dissolved except
by death.”
	Mrs. Sewall added that she believed it
was a good thing to have the organization
of Mormon women enter the Council, and
come in contact as much as possible with
women holding the higher ideal of monog-
amic marriage; and she reminded her critics
that Frances Willard had also favored let-
ting the Mormon association belong. Mrs.
Sewall denied in toto that she had ever
written to Senator Beveridge urging the
seating of Senator Smoot.
	In rega d to whether Mr. Smoot should
be seated, there are all sorts of opinions
among the suffragists, as there are among
the anti-suffragists. If he should be al-
lowed to take his seat, it will be by vote of
a U S. Senate most of whose members are
opposed to equal suffrage. Would that
justify the suffragists in declaring that the
“Antis” as a class favor polygamy?
	I never knew a suffragist, not a Mormon:
who believed in polygamy. But several
famous men who were strongly opposed to
equal rights for women have advocated
polygamy. One was John Milton, who was
such a champion of freedom for men and of
subjection for women that some one said he
seemed to regard men as made only for re-
bellion, and women as made only for sub-
mission. Napoleon, who regarded women
as useful solely to bring soldiers into the
world, and whose “Code Napoleon” de-
prived women of about all personal and
property rights, wrote: “I consider it a great
mistake that a man is allowed to have only
one legitimate wife.” No, polygamy is a
doctrine that belongs logically not to the
equal rights party, but rather to their op-
ponents. And the “Antis” must be poorly
off for legitimate arguments when they
make so absurd a charge against Miss
Anthony and Mrs. Sewall. 	A. S. B.


