THE STATUE OF MISS WILLARD.
The statue of Frances E. Willard to be
placed in the Statuary Hall in the National
Capitol, has received the last touches from
Miss Mears, the sculptor, and was in place
in a niche close by the figure of Washing-
ton, before February 19. On that day, the
anniversary of Miss Willard’s death, her
statue, the gift of Illinois to the nation, was
formally accepted by Congress. Senators
Cullom and Hopkins of Illinois, Beveridge
of Indiana, Dolliver of Iowa, and Repre-
sentatives Foss and Boutele of Illinois, and
Littlefield of Maine, delivered the addresses.
Next day the school children of Washington
were given a chance to visit Statuary
Hall. Each child to place a flower at the
base of the statue, and receive from Miss
Gordon a medal commemorating the event,
and bearing a miniature reproduction of the
statue. On the evening of February 17
the W. C. T. U. held a national commem-
orative meeting in Washington.
The statue represents Miss Willard stand-
ing, her right arm extended, the hand rest-
ing upon a reading desk; the left arm is at
her side, with a few pages of manuscript
in the hand. She is about to address an
audience; and the familiar pose of the head,
the strong, spiritual face, are lifelike.
Augustus Saint Gaudens, the former in-
structor of Miss Mears, speaks of it as
“showing in a way that it seems to me on-
ly a woman could do, the union of strength
with feminine gentleness—a quality most
tender and elusive, but which she has cer-
tainly infused in her work.” The pedes-
tal is of Vermont marble, and bears the
following inscription:
Ah! It is women who have given the
costliest hostage to fortune. Out into the
battle of life they have sent their best be-
loved, with fearful odds against them. Oh,
by the dangers they have dared, by the
hours of patient watching over beds where
helpless children lay, by the incense of ten
thousand prayers wafted from their gentle
lips to heaven, I charge you give them
power to protect along life’s treacherous
highway those whom they have so loved!—
Frances E. Willard.		—Ex.


