Vol. 30	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1901.	No. 7


CONTENTS.

Aunt Zina’s Last Words and Testament......
............................... Elnora Wight 49
Loving Appreciation.....Zina Young Card 50
South Western States Mission....M. Budge 50
Walks Around Canterbury... Lydia D. Alder 51
General R. S. Conference.........E. B. Wells 54

EDITORIAT—Special Conference................. 52
The Hawaiian Queen...................... 52
Wedding and Celebration................. 52
Editorial Notes......................... 53
Official Notice......................... 54

POETRY—A Token.... Augusta J. Crocheron 49 
Hush.............Mrs.Ormston Chant 51


A TOKEN.

A warm, loving palm on my cheek as I dreamed,
A kiss and a breath like the touch of a rose,
And voice, that the sweetest of melody deemed;
Responsive in gladness, my eyelids unclosed—
Ah ! I’d been dreaming! All of it gone—
Far away, years away—here and then gone.

The babe that I thought still lay here on my heart,
Out in the great world, still mine, but a man—
Teardrop and smile and a heavy pain start,
All three together. Explain if you can,
All their strange harmony; tell me who can.

Why, over mountains and rivers and years,
Desolate landscape and senses grown numb,
Mountains of trials and darkness of fears,
Like lightning o'er silence, such moment should
	come?
Like lightning through darkness, such moment 
should come!

I, who take pride in their statue and strength,
(As once in their dimpled and fresh infancy)
To drop from remembrance the years’ weary
	length
And down in my dreamstheir young mother to be,
Deep down in my dreams their glad mother to be.
Had I forgotten through all waking hours
In fancy’s pictures of daughters and sons?
(Mothers ye know the best treasures of ours—
Tresses and mem’ries of our little ones,)
Hath life held sweeter than our little ones?
I, to dream such, when my hair has grown white,
And they each have missions in life to fulfill ?
But—the mother’s heart, like the north star’s
light,
E’er beckons their course to the Father’s will,
That right of her soul from Divinity,
Will still hold its claim through eternity,

When thou gavest them first to my trembling em-
	brace,
They were fresh from Thy keeping and pure in
	Thy sight;
From conflict and tempter, Thy power and grace
Can strengthen, deliver and lead them aright;
And my heart, as the years grow, its watch care
	will keep;
As the years pass, Thy tokens and promise shall
	keep.
’Twas Thy spirit of love, O, my Father, that sent
The vision of bliss after all that had passed.
Thou hast not forgotten me, I am content;
Thou hast wakened again all my spirit at last,
I shall hold them again, near my heart at last.

After life’s work is done, and its last dream,
I shall waken in gladness and find it all truth,
The grace of blest motherhood o’er me shall beam,
And the bright bow of promise o’er cradle and
youth,
Mine—by that token that came in my sleep—
The kiss of my baby, that waked me from sleep.
				AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
	Erda, August 6, 1901.


AUNT ZINA'S LAST WORDS AND
TESTAMENT.
	Knowing the deep love and true appre-
ciation of the sisters for our departed
President, we send to you the last words
and loving counsel given us by her during
her stay in Cardston, the months of July
and August.
	It was prophesied upon her head four
years ago that she would come and visit
us again, and it seemed her every word
and act was given for our comfort and
guidance while she remained with us. Her
son, Elder Chariton Jacobs, in visiting
with us this summer, bore this glowing
testimony and tribute to his beloved
mother. He said:
	“I am now fifty-four years old and never
in my life heard my mother say a word
against any one, or never heard her say
aught against the Holy Priesthood, and
never did she utter one word of complaint.”
	During her visit three meetings were
held that she attended, one at the Relief
Society Hall and two at her daughter’s
home, as she seemed almost too feeble to
attend them at a distance. No one who
attended these glorious meetings can ever
forget the heavenly and soul-inspiring
words and angelic face of the most beloved
and Saint-like Mother in Zion.
	The Relief Society met in the Relief
Society hall, President Sarah B. Daines
presiding. After the usual exercises and a
few testimonies borne, also a beautiful
song entitled ‘‘A Friend So True,” sung
by a sister, our President, Zina D. H.
Young, addressed the meeting, speaking of
the labors of the Prophet Joseph Smith and
the organization of the first Relief Society.
“I well remember the few members at that
time, and compare them to the great num-
bers enrolled in the Relief Society today. I
well remember the noble and majestic look
of the Prophet Joseph when he rose and
spoke. I see how his words have been
fulfilled and the way opened for the suc-
cess and advancement of woman.” Men-
tioned many important positions filled by
women today, that could not have been
filled in that day. Spoke of the humble
positions of wives, mothers, Relief Society
teachers and members, and the great good
accomplished by their united efforts and
willingness to serve the Lord and help
to bring that reign of peace on earth to
which we all look forward. Spoke on the
principle of celestial marriage, had re-
joiced in that sacred and holy principle.
Spoke of the union existing in the family
of President Young. Said that without
the Spirit of God all are in danger.
Women are blest who have husbands that
seek to serve the Lord. It is a privilege
to live in this generation. May God
help us in our labors of love. May He
strengthen us in body and in mind, that
we may be enabled to raise our children in
peace, love and joy, and perform our
labors in a pleasant way. May we all live
to claim the blessings of God. 
	Sister Card spoke briefly and exercised
the gift of tongues and dear Aunt Zina

[Column 2]
gave the interpretation, but feeling she did
not have it quite clear, humbly knelt by
her chair and quietly offered a few words
of prayer, then arising gave the interpre-
tation fully and beautifully, to the blessing
and comfort of all.

SECOND MEETING.
	On August 1, the Relief Society met at
Sister Card’s. Meeting convened with
sixty-four members present, President
Sarah B. Daines presiding.
	After the opening exercises and program
Sister Young addressed the meeting. She
said she loved the testimony meetings,
loved to hear the voices of the sisters and
to see the Spirit of God beaming on their
faces. “What a privilege it is to live in
this dispensation ! We should meet to-
gether often and speak one to another.
The Saints will receive great blessings
through the word of the testimony and the
power of the anointing.” She then gave
a description of the Kirtland Temple and
the many glorious meetings held there.
She was present when the Spirit of God was
felt like a mighty rushing wind. Explained
how large curtains were drawn that all
might have the privilege of bearing their
testimonies. Exhorted the sisters not to
find fault with the Priesthood or with one 
another, do not harbor a fault finding
spirit, it is not of God. Said: “In looking
back over my own life I cannot remember
of ever finding fault with those who were
called to preside over me. Do not harbor
an ill feeling toward any one, nor let envy
crowd love from your hearts. Those who
do this are trampling the beautiful flowers
and blossoms under their feet. Spoke of
the poverty and hard times endured by the
Saints in the past, hoped they would never
return. “Dear sisters, call often upon the
Lord, and a request I would make of you
all is to never find fault.”

THIRD MEETING.
	August 15th the Relief Society again
convened at the home of Sister Card, Presi-
dent Sarah B. Daines presiding.
	After the usual exercises and bearing of
testimonies, Sister Young said: “My dear
sisters, what pleasure it gives me to be
engaged with you in this great and
glorious work. As time goes on each day
makes one rejoice more in the grandeur of
the principles which we believe in; the 
greatness of our blessings is beyond ex-
pression. Sisters appreciate the privilege
of bearing testimony of the goodness of
God to one another. I feel to exhort you
all to live so you can claim the Holy
Spirit to comfort you in times of trial, and
inspire you in your daily vocations of life.
It is a mother’s privilege to be inspired by
the Spirit of God in the raising of her
family. Take time to read the scriptures. 
I have taken much consolation in reading
the Book of Mormon. I have visited the
Hill Cumorah and rejoiced that I was
privileged to stand on such holy ground 
where prophets and angels have stood,
such a place of renown among the Nephites


and Lamanites." She described the hill,
and could plainly see how many could go 
upon that hill to battle. Closed by asking 
the blessing of the Lord upon all. 
Singing, "Do what is right." Benedic-
tion by Zina Y. Card, 
ELNORA WIGHT, Sec.


50								WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LOVING APPRECIATION. 
My Beloved Sisters:
Our "Mother" is at rest, and while the
void her sweet presence filled still yearns
for
“The touch of a vanished hand
And the sound of a voice that is still ”
we will try to prove our devotion to her
sacred memory by living our most holy
religion as she would have us.
I recall the many acts of kindness
bestowed upon me while there with you,
and take this occasion to express my grati-
tude and love to all my kindred and friends
who remembered us as a family and myself
as an individual, who was there without
husband or children. God bless and com-
fort all, is the prayer of your grateful 
sister. 
ZINA YOUNG CARD. 
Cardston, Canada.


[Column 1]
SOUTH WESTERN STATES MISSION.
Minutes of the St. John Relief
Society conference, held at St. John, Sep.
16, 1901.
Meeting called to order by President
Lucy Breckenridge. Singing, “The
Spirit of God.” Prayer was offered by
President James G. Duffin, of the South
Western States mission. Continued by
singing “High on the mountain top a ban-
ner is unfurled.”
Sister Breckenridge told what was being
done by the society, and said that it had
been greatly blessed. They held meetings
every week and had about forty dollars in
the treasury.
President Sarah J. Cannon, of Salt Lake,
a member of the General Board of the
Relief Society, spoke on punctuality and
encouraged the sisters to continue in the
good work. Begin meeting on time, and
do not hold meetings too long. The mem-
bers should be united and have kind words
for each other. We never gain by running
other people down. Teachers should be
urged to visit. Do good as you have oppor-
tunity. If a sister cannot meet, occasional-
ly take the meeting to that member. En-
courage the children to pay tithing,
as well as paying our own personal tithing.
Children should be taught to obey. Make
the home pleasant so the children will
want to be at home. We should thank
our Heavenly Father more than we do for
our blessings. Spoke of the Woman’s
Building that is to be built in Salt Lake
City, and said she would like to have the
name of the St. John Relief Society on the
books as having helped with the construc-
tion of it.
Sister Joanna Miller, one of our teachers
was called to give a report of the St. John
branch of the Relief Society. She felt
well, had visited as much as they were
able. Always found every one feeling well
in the Gospel. Felt better when they
visited. Felt she, in so doing, was attend-
ing more strictly to her duty. Asked
the Lord to bless us all that we might hold out faithful.

[Column 2]
President Jas. G. Duffiin read a portion
of Section 68, Doctrine and Covenants. It
is right to teach our children the things
that are being done in these days,. that
faith would grow in them. That children
should be baptized at the age of eight
years. They are subject to so many
temptations. We should train them as
they should go. Said our happiness
depends upon them, that if they should
depart from the Lord how dreadful it would
be. This should be impressed on their
minds. We should look at the good and
not the evil. Said the Relief Society is
one of the helps in government. The
society is inspired of the Lord, that His
Spirit might be strengthened. We will be
blessed both in mind and body if we are 
faithful. The Prophet Joseph Smith said
when we became fault-finding, it grieved
the Spirit of the Lord, and He would draw
His Spirit from us, and we should be left
in darkness. We must avoid this. Some
will find fault because the Elders would
talk a little too long. In so doing we
would not be doing right. Said we
should support our officers, also spoke of
the Woman’s Building.
Sister Annie Taylor Hyde, of Salt Lake
City, read an article from the EXPONENT, 
an address written by President Lorenzo
Snow, and read by his son at the exer-
cises given by the Relief Society at Saltair.
Spoke of the Woman’s Building, of raising
the money to give to help erect it, of the
different amounts given. That it is the
little mites the poor give that seem to make
the greater amounts. Explained the
different parts of the building. Spoke of
the education of the children, and of the 
schools in Zion. We could dispel prejudice
by explaining our views to those who are
ignorant. Alluded to marriage, that young
people in these days seem to be living for
enjoyment and not trying to keep God’s
commandments. Referred to the joy de-
rived from doing our duty.
Elder J. M. White said it was a pleasure
to speak to us awhile. That he had not
been interested in Relief Society work in
the past. He was now leaving the mission
field. Thanked all who had been so kind
to him and endorsed all that had been
said.
Closed by singing “Now, let us rejoice.”
Prayer by Elder Joshua Gardner. Ad-
journed until 2 o’clock p. m.
Afternoon meeting, Sister Lucy Brecken-
ridge presiding. Opened by singing “We
thank Thee, O God, For a Prophet.”
Prayer by Elder King. Continued by
singing “Redeemer of Israel.”
The first speaker said she could not give
any instructions in the Relief Society work
but bore a strong testimony of the truth-
fulness of the Gospel. Was thankful to
meet in the St. John conference. Had
enjoyed her labors, knew if she would put
her trust in the Lord all must be well.
Each one must do good for herself. Was
pleased to see us united and was pleased to
see the girls were taking part in the society.
Elder Joshua Gardner had never been
called to speak in a Relief Society meeting
before, but knew if we are led by the
Spirit of the Lord good will be done. Spoke
of his mother, said she was a worker in
the Relief Society, he gained some
knowledge from her. Spoke of the opin-
ion the world had of the sisters of the
Latter-day Saints. Hoped they would
learn of some of the work of the Relief

[Column 3]
Society. Spoke of the young lady mission-
aries, prayed the Lord would bless the
sisters of the society, said they are work-
ing for both temporal and spiritual affairs.
President Sarah J. Cannon was rejoiced
to meet with us again this afternoon.
Urged the sisters to work together, that in
so doing we could do so much more good.
It is necessary that we keep exact records.
We should let our light shine and work to
earn a reward. Was pleased so many kept
the Word of Wisdom. It is important
that we train our children right. We
must watch that no misunderstandings
come between us. Mentioned the celebra-
tions on the 17th of March each year, and
the ten cent membership fee that we should
always remember on that day. We should
be charitable, try to save souls and say
kind words. We must notice the little
things of this life. Should be able to
answer questions on our religion, must
study and know something of the Gospel.
Try to be better each day. Always be
gentle and not take offence easy, but be
careful to live in love and peace. Thought
she would always feel much interested in
the sisters of St. John because she had
been with us.
Sister Amelia Badger favored us with a
very sweet song.
Sister Annie T. Hyde enjoyed the con-
ference so very much. Thought it such a
blsssing to the missionaries. It is a privi-
lege the Lord has given to all to work for
him. Spoke of the first organization of the
Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph
Smith, and said that this society is to
strengthen the work of the Lord That all
must be pure in heart to become members. 
That Emma Smith was chosen by revela-
tion as the first leader. Read a portion
from the Doctrine and Covenants, also read
some selections, and said what a grand
work we were in. Should not be gloomy
but be cheerful, should not miss our meet-
ings if it could be helped. The sisters of the
first Relief Society helped the sick and when
they were driven from their homes com-
forted and blessed them. Mentioned how
they used to do when they first went to
Utah. 
Spoke of storing grain for the poor.
That many branches of the soeiety had
their own buildings. Alluded to the
Temple work, how so many poor are helped
in this way. Spoke of the Woman’s
Exchange, of the silk industry and of the
trained nurses, how they were willing to
nurse the poor, as well as rich. How
they furnished bedding and clothing for
the poor. Spoke of the sisters administer-
ing to the sick, if we are pure we will get
what we ask for if it is for our good.
We should always praise the Lord. We
should be blessed if we kept the Word of
Wisdom, should do right ourselves and
not notice our friends. Thought it a good 
idea to read Church works in our meetings.
President Duffiin said we had a very fine
meeting. There had been given a great
many things that would be good to use for
all. Called our attention to some of the
points the sisters had given. Spoke to the
brothers and sisters, of the covenants made
before we were sent here. Gave them
good advice.
Elder J. M. White sang a song, “Mor
mon Boy.”
Meeting closed by singing “Where the:
voice of friendship’s heard. ” Benediction
by Elder O. H. Jeppson. 
MARGARET BUDGE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT							51


HUSH.

		MRS. ORMSTON CHANT.

Hush ! The sound of a voice has gone—
    Gone from the autumn day,
The world-choir misses the note of one 
Whose hymn was hushed ere the singer won,
    Time for his noblest lay.

Hush ! and harken a while to hear
    If from the gates afar
Reaches the listening, straining ear
Heavenly welcome chanted clear
    'Twixt portals held ajar.

Hush ! ’Twas sudden, swift and straight,
    The thrust that silenced him;
He so kindly, so good, so great—
He the target of devilish hate?
    God ! how our eyes grow dim !

Hush ! In the splendor of noontide cold;
    ’Mid a nation’s heart-warmth chill;
Prone head haloed in martyr-gold—
Saint and martyr like them of old,
     ‘‘Done be the Holy Will.”

Hush ! lest our trembling branch of palm
    Rustle too loud, and break
Death’s lone silence of healing calm,
Safe on time for the Great Day psalm,
    God shall bring him awake.

Hush, oh hush ! weep soft, and pray.
    What was it laid him low ?
Who was it shed his blood that day,
Blocked the road of his blameless way ?
    Woe to the murderer, woe !

Hush, O, nation, and drink the cup
    Filled with tears to the brim ! 
God is lifting the nation up
Nearer the feast of heaven, to sup
    Joy after grief with Him.

Hush ! There was too much noise and din,
    Shouting and stress of war;
Love in the guise of a traitor’s sin
Showed her palace, and drew him in, 
Gave him shelter her courts within,
    Where the Peace Angels are. 
			   Hush !


WALKS AROUND CANTERBURY.
(Concluded.)
	The West gate well preserved still 
stands. Here as in other parts the 
sentinel's posts and apertures are to be 
seen. This gate was saved recently by the 
mayor's vote alone, the council agreeing to 
pull it down. Many rooms are here one 
called the Council chamber; and dungeons, 
where unfortunates were cast by those iron 
rulers. A broad bench made of wood, is 
the only article of furniture they contain. 
When they were tired of sitting on them 
they could have them for a bed. Dark 
prisons they were, too, no light only that 
admitted from the door. Out on the roof 
of a portion of it is a tower which ascend-
ing by means of a ladder one reaches the 
top, from whence a flag pole, with the 
Union Jack floating, is to be seen. 
The Roman city it seems did not extend 
west far beyond this arm of the stone on 
which we now gaze. It really seems that 
from West Gate between the two arms of 
the stone, was in Roman day only a march. 
Ruins of a large Roman building have 
been discovered right across the line of the 
present street, near the Fluer de lis Hotel.
This probably was the business centre of 
Roman days. Certainly in medieval times 
the Royal Exchange and mint stood there,
also the Canterbury Jewry. The Jews were
expelled in the reign of Edward I., but as 
late as the 17th century traces of their 
synagogue were to be seen. Jewry Lane 
still remains which leads into Stern Street. 
Rise and fall, progress and decay, ever 
mark the decades of man. 
From here we visit the New Museum. 
Many objects of antiquity are shown, as 
[Column 2]
well as some of more modern date. It is a 
massive new and commodious building 
with public reading rooms and free 
library attached. It was founded by the 
late Rev. Bearny, a native of Canterbury, 
to whom the citizens showed such marked 
discourtesies that he left his home, going 
to Australia where he amassed a great 
fortune which he left to his birth city, 
desiring, in the greatness of his heart, to 
benefit her and add to her riches and glory. 
A noble revenge indeed ! A large oil
painting of the Doctor hangs on one of its 
walls.
ST. NICHOLAS CHURCH.
	High up the London road this church is 
reached. Formerly it was a hospital for 
lepers. It was built in 1084 by Arch-
Bishop Lanfrance.  Two benches, heavy 
and strong, though in places worm eaten,
still remain, said to be fifty years old; they 
certainly evidence great antiquity. In the 
turret are the Canterbury bells, five hun-
dred years old. One window, old and 
quaint, but of rare design, shows in its 
varied coloring the fluer de lis of France; 
another the king and St. Nicholas, with 
the angel Gabriel on one side with a city 
in his hand, the Virgin Mary on the other, 
almost black with age. 
Here are the arch and candles; the 
Easter Tower frescoed. In front of where 
the altar was is a large, flat slab over a 
vault, bearing the name of a knight who 
died eight hundred years ago. Another 
inscription reads, "Here lyeth the body of 
M. George Short, some time minister of 
this hospital who departed this life, Nov. 
25, Anno Domini 1641, Resurgam."
Formerly the pilgrims visited this 
church on their way to Canterbury. In 
common with the other old churches a few 
years ago the walls were scraped of their 
coat of plaster, (which by order of Henry 
VIII. was put on all all the churches) thus 
revealing many figures and designs which 
no doubt were beautiful before that day. 
However they are plainly outlined and tell 
of a faded glory. 
Lepers must have been quite common in 
England in those days. The main body of 
this church is quite large, and here the un-
fortunates worshipped. The corridor on 
the right of the entrance door is where the 
priest entered, robing himself here where 
the church regalia was kept. A short 
flight of stairs once stood by the end wall
on which he mounted to preach through 
the opening, half as tall as a man, over 
their heads as they assembled below, thus 
not entering among them. 
Whether the opening was glass covered 
or not cannot be told. It is in about the 
centre of the church, that his voice could 
be heard all over it. The outline of a 
crusader on the corridor wall indicates that 
the place was visited by them.
	The old Baptismal font shows the Tudor 
rose cut out of stone on one side, and those 
of York and Lancaster entwined on the 
other. These fonts though called baptis-
mal must be understood to admit only 
of sprinkling. They are about the size 
and depth of an ordinary wash tub, but 
made of stone and as a rule are beautifully 
embellished. Stepping down from the 
chancel (which is now the part used as a 
church for the paupers whose homes are 
opposite in the houses where the lepers 
used to live) the entrance to a vault is dis-
closed It is a clear dark slab, over which

[Column 3]
a wide piece of matting is placed, which 
extends some feet down the main part of 
the church. Cut into the stone is the fol-
lowing: "Thomas Young, 1774, down to 
1818, and members of his family." This 
man was steward of the estate, also his 
family after him. 
On the opposite wall are knights in 
armor, also the Crusader's cross and the 
niche in the wall where the image of the 
Virgin Mary used to stand. The narrow 
stairs, about six inches wide, which lead to 
the belfry, are in some instances eaten 
entirely away, others being substituted, 
while some still remain, show the progress 
of decay. Up these stairs, though so 
dangerous, the caretaker must ascend every 
Friday at half past two o'clock to ring the 
old Canterbury bells, calling the paupers 
from their houses to worship at three 
o'clock. To the question, "Why do you 
not have worship on Sunday?" he said, 
"The minister has two other parishes
where he preaches on Sunday, but the 
paupers have theirs on Friday." 
To the question, "Why do they not 
have another minister, if he's so crowded?"
"O, he has to have three livings, be-
cause the farms do not yield so abundantly 
as they used to." 
The tax, one tenth of all they raise, is
demanded of the farmers to keep up the 
Church of England. 
To the question, "Why do not your 
ministers preach as Christ did, without 
purse or scrip?" an uncomprehending stare 
is the answer. 
The wooden platters and bowls exhibited 
are said to be those formerly used by the 
lepers, and the queer old well the place 
where the Black Prince used to bathe. 
The church stands high upon a knoll, a 
very pretty situation, from which the 
surroundings are very pleasing to the eye. 
So that is the row of pauper houses !
How sad to be poor, and be denied the 
word of God on the Sabbath day ! How
changed is the world, that some must be 
termed paupers, when God sends enough 
for all and Christ came that the poor should 
have the Gospel preached to them !

THE CATHEDRAL.
	Arriving early we loiter through the 
nave. The memorials on the walls and 
cenetaph of Archbishop Benson attracts 
the eye. A heavy hardwood prayer bench 
or stool about twelve feet long, elegantly 
carved, has been removed a little to one 
side. On this worshippers at this sacred 
building were wont to kneel and offer up a 
prayer for the deceased bishop, whose
beautiful monument was unveiled July, 
1899, with great pomp and ceremony by 
the Duchess of Albany, who came to 
Canterbury on a special train for the pur-
pose. As the royal party left the train rain 
began to fall, continuing until the cere-
mony was almost completed, when just at 
the juncture of the unveiling the most 
terrible thunder storm and lightning, 
accompanied by hailstones measuring many 
of them an inch and a quarter, broke over 
the city, striking terror to the hearts of the 
citizens. The old moat below the Roman 
wall was filled many feet high with water, 
also the garden which adjoins it, in a very 
few minutes. The mark is still visible on 
the trees where the water reached. Such 
a storm has never been known in the city's 
annals. The thunder was deafening and a 
large amount of glass was broken all over 
the city. LYDIA D. ALDER.


52				WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
Woman's Exponent
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher. 
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah. 
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
dvertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparie
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers. 
EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to 
				Mrs. E. B. WELLS, 
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a 
second-class matter. 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER, 1901.


[Column 1]
SPECIAL CONFERENCE.
RELIEF SOCIETY REORGANIZED.
	Our sisters are doubtless all aware ere
this of the reorganization of the General
Presidency of the Relief Society of the
Church. This became necessary on
account of the demise of the late beloved
President, Sister Zina D. H. Young, who
has held the position of Elect Lady for
thirteen years, having been appointed by
President Wilford Woodruff and sustained
at the April Conference in 1888, being the
third President in order since the Society
was first organized in 1842, when Sister
Emma Smith was elected President, and
afterwards Sister Eliza R. Snow Smith,
who presided for many years, having been
called by President Young before her regu-
lar appointment on June 21, 1880, by
President John Taylor.
	We now have our fourth President and
so far all have been Smiths in the succes-
sion, Emma Smith, Eliza R. S. Smith,
Zina D. H. Young Smith, and now
Bathsheba W. Smith. The three first
were wives of the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and Sister Bathsheba of his cousin, George
A. Smith. President Bathsheba W. Smith
was selected by the First Presidency and
Apostles of the Church, in Council, on
Thursday, October 31, 1901 and her
Counselors on Thursday, November 7.
They are Sisters Annie T. Hyde and Ida
Smoot Dusenberry. Sister Emmeline B.
Wells was retained as Secretary and Sister
Clarissa S. Williams chosen Treasurer.
	The General officers of the Relief Society
of the Church in their order are as follows:
	Bathsheba W. Smith, President; Annie
T.Hyde, First Counselor; Ida Smoot
Dusenberry, Second Counselor; Emmeline
B.Wells, Secretary; Clarissa Smith
Williams, Treasurer.
	It is the first occcasion on which the
officers of the Relief Society have been
voted for by the Priesthood in the order of 
Quorums. First, the First Presidency.
Second, the Apostles. Third, Patriarchs.
Fourth, Presidents of Stakes and their
Counselors and High Counselors. Fifth,
High Priests. Sixth, Seventies. Seventh,
Elders. Eighth, Bishops and their Coun-
selors. Ninth, Priests, Teachers and
Deacons (the Lower Priesthood.) Tenth,
all members of the Church, rising to their
feet and raising their right hand,
	The voting, was unanimous in the
affirmative, although in each instance

[Column 2]
successively President Joseph F. Smith,
who officiated called for the negative vote,
and if any were opposed an opportunity
was given to express it.
	It was a very grand and imposing
spectacle to witness, to see quorum after
quorum of the holy priesthood and finally
the whole congregation rise to their feet
and raise the right hand as witness that
they sustain the person or persons in the
position to which they have been called.
	The teaching and instruction given at
this Conference has been of a most impres-
sive character, and will no doubt carry an
influence that will be far-reaching and
tend to strengthen all those who are
engaged in the Latter-day work, both at
home and abroad.
	The speakers during the morning session
were President Joseph F. Smith, President
Anthon H. Lund, President Brigham
Young, Apostle John Henry Smith. The
singing, music and prayers were very
inspiring.
	The afternoon session was almost entirely
occupied with the sustaining of the
authorities of the Church and some other
important matters of business, and at its
close President Smith spoke briefly upon
the sacredness of the duty of the Priesthood
of the Son of God and blessed the people.
	The choir sang an anthem after which
President John R. Winder addressed the
congregation a short time and was followed
by President Smith, who gave some of his
ideas in regard to the obligations and
responsibilities of the First Presidency and
Apostles.
	Apostle Hyrum M. Smith made a few
remarks and the Conference was then
adjourned until next April. The choir
and congregation joined in singing “We
thank.Thee, O God. for a Prophet,” and
the benediction was pronounced by Apostle
A. O. Woodruff.


[Column 1]
THE HAWAIIAN QUEEN.
	The visit to this city of Queen Liliouka-
lani has created considerable interest among
the people, who are, at least a number of
them, well acquainted with Her Majesty and
even though she is not now a sovereign
queen, she is in herself, as President Joseph
F. Smith fittingly remarked in his address at
the reception given in her honor, a queen
among her people and as such they honor
and regard her.
	The Queen has ever been friendly to our
people and we have taken a great interest in
everything connected with her affairs. The
late President George Q. Cannon had a great,
admiration for Her Majesty Lilioukalani, as
also has our present President of the Church,
Joseph F. Smith.
	She is a woman of superior gifts and
accomplishments, fond of music, poetry and
the fine arts and has composed some very
sweet songs and verses. She speaks Eng-
lish remarkably well and her literary attain-
ments have made her conversant with many
languages and the history of many countries.
Her Majesty is remarkably well preserved
and her quiet and dignified manner suits well
the rank in which she was born.
	The reception given at the Bee Hive by a
special committee of which the Hon. Abra-
ham Fernandez was the chairman, was a
brilliant success. The affair was well man-
aged and the spacious parlors of the historic
Bee Hive House were once again made
historically popular by welcoming a queen to
the ever memorable home of Brigham

[Column 2]
Young. In this fact there is a fulfillment of
prophecy, which we ought to remember and
recognize. That “the queens of the earth
should come to Zion,” etc.
	The program opened in the parlors of the
Bee Hive with an address of welcome by
President Joseph F. Smith in which he told
of his first mission to the islands and spoke
most feelingly of the kindness and hospitality
shown him by that generous people and
especially the former queen, since deceased,
who was truly a foster mother to him in his
youth and inexperience while he was study-
ing the language, and indeed throughout his
sojourn in that, far-off land.
	Most of the musical exercises were by the
Hawaiians, who are very fond of this high
art, and the son and daughter of Brother and
Sister Fernandez did much to contribute to
the musical program. Miss Lulu Gates
sang a little Hawaiian song in the native
language which she had once sung when a
child on the islands for the former queen.
	Brother and Sister Gates were at the time
on a mission to the Sandwich Islands.
	Queen Lilioukalani was assisted in receiv-
ing by President Joseph F. Smith and Elder
Henry P. Richards, who stood at her left
hand, and Mrs. Fernandez. The Hon.
Abraham Fernandez made the introductions
in a very happy manner, as each one cor-
dially greeted and gave her welcome, and.
the matter of presentation to Her Majesty
was very happily accomplished, though per-
haps somewhat informal.
	The Queen was most gracious to all who
were presented and with an affability that
betokened rank and dignity. After the
musical part of the program was over the
Hon. Abraham Fernandez responded in be-
half of the Queen in a very happy manner
and the company in greeting each other and
certainly the occasion was proud and hap-
py one, a very delightful entertainment. The
committee are to be congratulated on the
success of their hurried arrangements.


WEDDING AND RECEPTION.
	The pretty wedding celebrated and
reception given, October 29, 1901, at the
residence of Hon. Spencer Clawson, at the
old homestead of the late Mrs. Clara D.
Young, where he now resides, was a very
pleasant and enjoyable affair, and the his-
toric house was one of the attractions to
the writer. Houses and places are in a way
effective. Say what you will, one cannot
get away from the fact that where the old
friends have often met the memories come
back to us, and fill our souls with a
melancholy sweetness.
	The marriage ceremony which united
Miss Claire Clawson and Dr. Chauncey F.
Benedict was solemnized by Bishop O. F.
Whitney in the presence of the nearest
relatives and friends of the happy pair, at
7 p. m., other invited guests arriving after-
wards. The bride was handsomely attired
and so were the bridesmaids. The dec-
orations were in the very best taste, the
colors sage green and red prevailing
throughout. The presents were numerous
and beautiful, and the refreshments all that
could be desired. As our little paper does
not deal with society, we are not expected
to give details, but as Claire is one of our
dear home girls we must say a word or
two about her marriage and wish the bride
and bridegroom great and true happiness.
May the sunshine of prosperity and con-
tentment abide in the home, and in all the


years to come may her experiences be only
such as shall help to make her wise and
helpful in her own home and in her day
and generation.

“Are we not one? Are we not joined by heaven
Each interwoven with the other’s fate?
Are we not mix’d like streams of meeting rivers.
Whose blended waters are no more distinguished,
But roll into the sea one common flood?”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	On Saturday afternoon, November 9,
Mrs. Jacob Bamberger gave a delightful
“At Home” to her dear five hundred
friends. Mrs. Bamberger’s hospitality is
so genuine, and her entertainments so
enjoyable, that one would never miss
going who had ever received her warm
welcome and cordial greeting. She is a
great favorite in society and knows just
how to make the people happy whom she
invites to her home. Her rooms were
elaborately decorated, though in excellent
taste, and the refreshments were choice and
daintily served and the music added great-
ly to the festivities of the afternoon.
	The Thanksgiving Proclamation by the
President of the United States and by the
Governor of our own State were duly issued,
and doubtless were happily conformed to by
the people in the good old fashioned way of
feasting and making merry; and let us hope
also that there was real and true thanksgiv-
ing to our Father in heaven for the peace
and prosperity our land is blest with, and 
while rejoicing in the abundance vouchsafed
on the year that is past, forget not to pray
for the future safety and tranquility of
our homes, and this fair land of liberty, the
asylum for the oppressed of peoples in
all lands.
	There has been some official visits paid to
conferences of the Relief Society Stake
organizations during the past few weeks,
Morgan, Beaver, Tooele, Parowan, Granite,
Jordan, Logan, North Sanpete, and also
Bingham. The sisters who have attended
these conferences are President B. W.
Smith, Counselor Annie T. Hyde, President
Jane S. Richards, Secretary E. B. Wells,
President M. Isabella Horne, Sisters Eliza-
beth J. Stevenson, Lydia D. Alder, Julia C.
Howe, Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Harriet Ann
Badger, Margaret A. Caine, Ruthinda E.
Moench.
	Sister Lucy B. Young, who has also been
absent from Utah for over two years has
returned home from her travels. She spent
most of the time in Germany in charge of
her granddaughter, Miss Emma Lucy Gates,
who has been studying music abroad most
of the time in Berlin. Mrs. Young while in
Germany was appointed to preside over the
branches of the Relief Society in that mission
and will be able to give us definite informa-
tion concerning the work of this charitable
organization in that country. She has
greatly enjoyed her sojourn abroad and has
doubtless made good use of her time and
planted some good seed in that far-off land
that will eventually bear fruit. The
Exponent bids Sister Young a loving wel-
come to the city of the Saints where dwell
her loved ones and may she be able to do
much more in the cause of truth and right-
eousness in the future.
	The Daughters of the Revolution at their
meeting, on November 16, had an old-
fashioned New England Thanksgiving

[Column 2]
dinner; roast turkey and cranberry sauce,
baked beans and brown bread, doughnuts
and pumpkin pie with all the usual ad-
juncts, pickles, etc The paper was by
Mrs. Lucy Woodruff Smith, and was
exceedingly well written and read de-
lightfully. The subject was the geography
of the battles of the Revolution from Lexing-
ton to Yorktown, with many bright pas-
sages, though such a serious matter to be
treated upon. The EXPONENT office, where
the banquet was spread, was decorated
with flags and the colors of the society,
blue and yellow, and blue bowls of yellow
chrysanthemums effectually carried out the
color design. At table the colors prevailed
even in decorating the great bowl of baked
beans.
	The Utah Woman’s Press Club cele-
brated its tenth anniversary at the rooms
of the retiring president, Mrs. C. C. R.
Wells, in the Constitution Building, with
choice musical selections, vocal and instru-
metal and character representations of the
ladies of the White House, commencing
with Lady Martha Washington, Abagail
Adams and so on, down to Mrs. Wm.
McKinley. A brief outline of the work of
the club and what had been accomplished
in entertaining, etc., was given by Mrs.
Lydia D. Alder and refreshments were
served at the close of the entertainment.
The new officers for the ensuing year
were officially installed. They are Mrs.
Lydia D. Alder, president; Mrs. Ella W.
Hyde and Mrs. Grace L. Anderson vice-
presidents Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, correspond-
ing secretary; Mrs. Emma Jensen, record-
ing secretary; Mrs. Rebecca H. Doolan,
treasurer.
	The Annual Convention of the Utah
federation of Women’s Clubs was held
in Provo, October 27, 28 and 29, of
this year, Mrs, C. E. Coulter presiding.
The program was a satisfactory one and the
addresses and discussions were calculated to
stimulate the members and all interested in
club work to renewed efforts in the future.
The officers chosen for the ensuing year were
Mrs. Chester E. Coulter (Ogden) president
for the second term; Mrs. E. E. Corfman,
(Provo) vice-president; Mrs. E. M. Bishop,
(Ogden) corresponding secretary; Mrs. Wm.
Iglehart (Salt Lake City) recording secre-
tary Mrs. K. Hilliard, (Ogden) State
organizer; Mrs. W. Scott, (Park City)
treasurer. The Executive Committee are
Mesdames C. E. Coulter, (Ogden); F. D.
Bickford, (Salt Lake City); E. E. Corfman,
(Provo) E. Bischel, (Ogden); C. D.
Moore, (Salt Lake); E. G. Gowans,
(Logan); W. Scott, (Park City); K. Hilli-
ard, (Ogden); W. Konald, M. Ellingsford
and Miss Dougall, (Springville); Mesdames
D. E. Hemphill, S. Simon, G. B. Blakely,
W. W. Riter, C. S. Kinney, J. Cowan, E.
B. Wells, (Salt Lake.)
	Mr. and Mrs. George H. Taggart gave a
studio reception in their handsome and
artistic rooms in the Templeton, on Tues-
day, November 12, from 3 to 5 p. m. The
decorations were very effective, white
chrysanthemums in the reception room,
with ivy and fern leaves in contrast, and
two shades of yellow in the tea room, with
the ivy green and fern leaves. It was a
brilliant affair after the manner of studio
receptions in Paris, and was most delight-
ful. Mrs. Taggart who is a bride of only
about a month, (and of course charming)
was assisted in receiving by Mrs. Sol Siegel

[Column 3]
who is always at her best in society, and in
a studio there is much to interest and
entertain. Mr. Taggart’s pictures are a
great attraction and one could not fail to
enjoy this rare opportunity of seeing in
the best light these fine paintings. Of
course the tea was delicious and refreshing
and the novelty of the affair made it all,the
more attractive. About one hundred and
fifty guests passed in and out and paid their
respects to the well known artist and his
bride.
	Tuesday, October 29, we attended by
invitation the social reunion of the Relief
Society of the Fourteenth Ward in this
city. President Maria W. Wilcox presided
and her counselors, Margaret Y. Taylor
and Elizabeth J. Stevenson, were both
present, also Miss Joan Campbell, the very
efficient secretary, and Mrs. Ella W. Hyde,
the treasurer, with most of the teachers
and members of the Society. This society
is one of the oldest in Utah and has always
been a very prosperous one. On many
occisions special meetings have been held
and distinguished visitors, both brethren
and sisters, have been the honored guests
of the Society. On the occasion mentioned
Bishop George H. Taylor and President
Angus M. Cannon were among the visitors
of the ladies. President B. W. Smith,
Counselor Clara C. Cannon and Aid Julia
C. Howe, of the Salt Lake Stake, also
Sister Elizabeth T. Webb and the writer
were present. The speakers bore strong
testimonies of the truth of the Gospel,
referring to the Relief Society work and
the benefits resulting from it towards
woman’s spiritual cultivation, and urged
the younger women to become members
and take part in the charitable and philan-
thropic efforts for the amelioration of suffer-
ing humanity. The hall was beautifully
decorated and the music both vocal and
instrumental was exceptionally good. The
President and her committee had prepared
light refreshments that were bountifully
served to all present after the close of the
meeting. Such social gatherings strengthen
the union of those whose duties and labors
are of a similar nature, and increase con-
fidence in and love for each other which
must be uplifting to all who participate in
the spirit of fraternity that exists where
the motives are pure and the desire is to
serve God and keep His commandments.
	The Relief Society conference of the
Granite Stske was held on Tuesday, Nov-
ember 12, in Big Cottonwood Ward meet-
ing house, President Emma S. Woodruff
presiding. Her counselors, Mary P.
Young and Katharine H. Brockbank were
on the platform, the secretary, Armeda S.
Young, and treasurer, Maria B. Winder,
were also present. There was a good
attendance of the sisters from the several
wards and excellent reports were given by
the respective presidents of the Relief
Society. Visitors present were General
President Bathsheba W. Smith and her
first counselor, Annie T. Hyde, and
Secretary Emmeline B. Wells and Presi-
dent M. Isabella Horne, of the Salt Lake
Stake also Sisters Mary A. Freeze and
Helen W. Woodruff, of the General Board
of the Young Ladies. Brief addresses were
made by each of these sisters during the
conference on subjects relating to the work
and duties of the society, as well as testi-
monies borne to the truth of the Gospel
The musical exercises were excellent


the solos rendered by Mrs. Hull and Miss
Crismon were very enjoyable indeed. A
fine luncheon had been prepared by the
good sisters of the ward Relief Society
under the supervision of President Emily
Stevenson which was partaken of by a
large number, two long tables full, and
others were invited to residences near at
hand and treated to hot dinners and warm
welcomes. The day was pleasant and the
conference spiritual and interesting. Bishop
Casto and Elder Wm. Taylor endorsed
the remarks of the sisters and each of these
brethren spoke a short time.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OFFICIAL NOTICE.
	The Stake Secretaries of the Relief
Society and the Secretary of each mission
or branch not yet included in a Stake,
whether in our own or in foreign countries,
are hereby officially notified to carefully
prepare correct statistical and financial
reports for the current year from January
1, 1901, to December 31, 1901. These
reports must be forwarded to the General
Secretary at the office of the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, Salt Lake City, Utah, early in
February, if possible, so that a complete
report of this great organization may be
ready at least ten days before the General
Conference in April, 1902.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,
General Secretary.


[Column 1]
GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.
	The October Conference of the Relief
Society was held Thursday, October 3,
1901, in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall in
this city, commencing at 10 a. m., Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards presiding.
	The morning was devoted to Memorial
Services in honor of the late President Zina
D. H. Young.
	The secretary, Sister E. B. Wells, read
the address of Sister Zina at the conference
she last attended, which was published in the
EXPONENT, also the two letters that had
been published this year addressed to
the sisters, signed by Sister Young and
her counselors.
	President Richards requested that the
favorite hymn composed by our beloved
“Sister Eliza,” be sung, “O, My Father.”
	Prayer was offered by President Rebecca
Standring, of Alpine Stake, followed by
the hymn, "When first the glorious light
of truth.”
	President Richards said: "We’ve decided
to devote this morning to a Memorial
Service to speak of our beloved President.
If we should do as we feel we should not
be able to speak at all, but Sister Zina
would wish us to go on with the work she
has done so well, and therefore we shall
endeavor to carry out her wishes, and to
follow in her footsteps. I would like
Sister Horne to be the first speaker.”
	President M. Isabella Horne, Salt Lake
Stake, felt inadequate to speak upon the
subject presented. “Sister Zina was
spiritual and a chosen spirit to come forth
in this day and age of the world like many
others whom we have known. She
never found fault, always passed lightly
over the faults of others and tried not to
expose them. There is nothing for us to
grieve over in her departure, her works
were great and grand and noble in sickness
and distress. Let us follow her example,
many are called, but few are chosen. And

[Column 2]
why are they not chosen? Because they
do not follow the Savior’s precepts, by
living the religion of the Gospel as taught
by Him. President Young used to tell us
to live our religion was the whole law of
the Lord. We need the guidance of the
Holy Spirit day by day in our labors. The
example of Sister Zina is before us. May
we be wise in our walks and conversation
that we may meet her again, is my prayer
in the name of Jesus.”
	President B. W. Smith said: “I feel
happy in being here, though if I were to
follow my feelings I should be sorrowful.
I miss Sister Zina so much. I could not
bear to see her suffering. I felt it was
possible for her to be with us in spirit here
today, and I think, too, of Mother
Whitney and Emma Smith and Sister
Eliza." Sister Smith then related a
significent dream she had recently about
Sister Eliza, and then repeated some of
Joseph the Prophet’s sayings to the Relief
Society. Sister Smith had enjoyed Sister
Zina’s company in the Temple where they
had worked together, but had not been
able to travel much among the sisters. It
had been her calling to work for the dead.
She was happy in that work. Asked the
Lord to bless us and prepare us for every
future event that awaits us, and hoped we
would all prove faithful.
	President Sarah J. Cannon said: “It is
with deep reverence and humility and my
heart full to overflowing with love for
Sister Zina that I say a few words. I desire
to follow in her footsteps and emulate her
example. Her great mantle of charity
was enough for all the mothers in Israel,
she always found the good in every one. I
have never seen any one so gentle, loving,
tender, forbearing and forgiving. But she
has gone. She could not stay any longer
with us. I cannot speak more, I am not
equal to it. May the Lord bless us all, is
my prayer. Amen.”
	President Susan Grant, Davis Stake: “I
agree with all that has been spoken of
Sister Zina. I knew her in the days of my
childhood. She used to come to our house
to see the Prophet and those of his faithful
wives that used to be at our home in
Nauvoo. I always rejoiced that I had the
privilege of being associated with the faith-
ful wives of Joseph here, and I want to be
with them hereafter. I loved Sister Zina,
she was always willing to go where duty
called her. It did not matter what kind
of weather or under what circumstances, it
was all right. Let us try and learn all we
can here, get knowledge, light and intelli-
gence. We will take that with us when we
go hence.”
	Mrs. Phebe Y. Beatie: “Sister Richards
has asked me to speak of mother. The
word “mother" fills my heart to overflow-
ing. Her whole life was in itself a perfect,
a beautiful poem, which, if each leaf were
taken separately by us, we could make our
lives sublime. I have no words to express
her tenderness for me, the only mother I
ever knew. May we all live to follow her
perfect example and prove worthy to be
associated with her hereafter, is my
prayer.”
	Dr. R. B. Pratt: “I have often wondered
how many women there were to whom
Sister Zina had ministered when they most
needed blessing and comfort. There will
be four special gems in her crown—humili-
ty, charity, love and sacrifice. May we all

[Column 3]
live so as to meet her in the day to come, is
my prayer."
	Sister Lucy W. Kimball: “I am glad to
meet with you on this occasion. I can en-
dorse the remarks that have been made.
We do not want to see our loved ones linger
and suffer, we could not wish those
back again who have gone to their
rest, however dear to us they may have
been. I believe of all our labors that the
Temple work is the greatest, the progress
of the work for the dead I know by the
inspiration of the spirit of God, that they
have accepted of our labors. Let us go
forward and not backward in this great
work, and press on to victory.”
	Sister Julia P. M. Farnsworth: “I loved
Aunt Zina, not only for her own sake, but
because of my parents and grandparents.
My mother’s sister was a wife of the
Prophet Joseph. We know Sister Zina
never did or said anything that was
beneath a woman and a Mother in Israel.
We should do her honor, every one of us
and follow her noble example, that we
may be worthy to meet her in the here-
after, is my prayer. Amen.”
	Sister Emily S. Richards: “I know we
all feel alike about Aunt Zina. We loved
to meet with her in our conferences, and
she and Aunt Eliza took such interest in
the young married women. The first time
Aunt Eliza asked me to speak in meeting,
I could not, and she said, ‘Never mind,
but when you are asked to speak again,
try and have something to say,’ and I did
have something to speak about. I feel
that I was blest to know them, they had
power in ministering, there was healing in
their touch. It was a comfort to us all to
be in their presence and hear their words
of encouragement.”
	President Mary Alice C. Lambert: "I
believe if ever there was a woman who did
her duty in every respect, our President,
Sister Zina Young, did. She was a pat-
tern for us all, I feel it is our loss to have
to part with her society, but it is her gain.
She has done her work faithfully and well
and has gone to her reward, and may we
also be true and worthy to meet her when
our time shall come, is my prayer. Amen.”
	Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson alluded to
what had been read of Sister Zina’s last
words to the sisters and thought if they
would carry out the advice given it would
be glorious. Spoke of Sister Zina’s visits
to her and her children in her sickness,
testified of her sacrifices and declared her
to be a true Saint of God. Thanked the
Lord for the privilege of knowing her.
Knew she could be trusted, for she never
betrayed confidence or told anything in-
trusted to her to keep sacred. Her life
was pure and her works were deeds of love
and charity. She had suffered much
persecution for principle, and had been
patient, enduring all for the Gospel’s sake
“May we also be true in passing through
fiery ordeals and come off conquerors as she
has done.”
	President Julia P. Lindsay, Bear Lake
Stake: “I feel to rejoice in meeting with
you today, yet I feel sorrowful in thinking
of our dear, departed Sister Zina. I have
known her since childhood, not in Kirtland
but in Nauvoo. I knew her there intimate-
ly, and I want to share in the glories that
she will enjoy in the hereafter. I know of
her goodness, of her integrity and of her
truth. We have been kept back to come
forth in this day and age of the world. If I


[Column 1]
could only say something that would
inspire those who are indifferent to the
privileges and blessings of the Gospel I
should feel glad. But let us remember the
parable of the ten virgins and have oil in
our lamps, and keep them trimmed and
burning.”
	President Jane S. Richards: “I suppose
we could all say a great deal more, and
much more might be said of the goodness
and excellence of our dear Sister Zina. I
have known her many years very intimate-
ly, and have been closely associated with
her the last few years as her counselor since
1888. I spent the last evening and the
last but one with her in her own home in
this city before she went away to Canada.
Sister Jacobs wished me to defer it until
she came back from her visit, but she said,
‘It’s all right, I’m glad you’ve come.’ I
asked her many questions about what
we’ve done and what we ought to do, and
of what we had not done. She wanted me
to stay with her, but I excused myself
on account of my folks being worried
about me. She prayed for me and blessed
me and said she wanted to come back alive.
That prayer was answered. It seemed
just as though it was her last, she did come
back alive. She did not stay here as long
as we wanted her. She had done her work
and maybe she can do more on the other side.
Let us not think too much of this world.
Some young women are taken away before
those who are older. Those who are
young now will grow old, and if you honor
and help those who are laboring in this
work you will never be sorry. Do as you
would be done by. Let us be very for-
giving, but we are subject to weakness, as
St. Paul said, ‘When I would do good,
evil is present with me.’ But we can
overcome in many things. Let us be full of
charity and remember those who need our
help when cast down. May we all be
faithful that we may go where Sister
Eliza and Sister Zina and the Prophet have
gone, is my prayer.
	The congregation, standing, sang,
“Praise God from whom all blessings
flow.” Adjourned until 2 p. m. Bene-
diction by President Ann C. Woodbury,
St. George Stake.

	Afternoon session opened by singing
“Redeemer of Israel,” by the Temple
choir. Prayer by Professor C. J. Thomas.
Singing, “Who are these arrayed in
white.” Roll call by secretary, 34 Stakes
represented.
	President Sarah Pope, Uintah Stake,
reported a good feeling among the mem-
bers and that efforts were being made to
build granaries and society halls in the
several wards, meetings were held regular-
ly and there was great energy manifested
in carrying on the work of the society.
	President Jane Barlow Muir, Woodruff
Stake, said they had long distances to
travel by team in visiting the different
branches, but everything was in excellent
order and they had recently had a very
good conference.
	President Dorcas Worthington, of Grants-
ville, reported Tooele Stake in absence of
the Stake President Emily J. Anderson.
Thought the sisters were energetic in their
duties, seeking to live their religion and
love one another.
	President Celestia Y. Pack, Summit
Stake, considered they were doing all in
their power, were taking care of the poor,

[Column 2]
had recently visited through the county
and found the sisters full of zeal and
energy.
	President Rebecca Standring said every
ward in the Stake had been visited and the
members seemed to live up to every duty,
and were willing to devote liberally toward
the erection of the Woman’s Building.
Spoke of our late President, and how
thankful she was to have had the privilege
of being present at the Memorial Service
in the morning, alluded to the great in-
fluence Sister Zina always carried where-
ever she went and spoke of the many visits
Sister Eliza R. Snow and Sister Zina had
made her. Desired to be worthy of their
society and confidence hereafter.
	Counselor Flotilda Funk, San Luis
Stake, made an excellent report of their
circumstances and the excellent feeling
that prevailed among the sisters. They
have a hall of their own to meet in and the
Word of Wisdom was faithfully observed,
also the law of tithing.
	President Louisa Haight, Cassia Stake,
said the members were striving to do every
duty and respond to every call. She and
her counselors had visited all around the
Stake recently and had an enjoyable time.
They had tried to fulfil every responsibility.
She believed all were in the line of duty.
	President Temperance Hinckley, Fre-
mont Stake, stated there had been much
sickness the last year, which had prevented
them from making the usual round of
visits, but all were in good condition in the
several branches and all trying to live their
religion and be faithful to the work.
	President Mary A. Call, Bannock Stake,
stated that she and her counselors made a
practice of visiting all the branches once a
year, that they tried to keep up with all
requirements. Their members were faith-
ful in the performance of every duty
required of them, and were energetic and
pressing forward in every good work.
	President Eliza M. Oram, Pocatello
Stake, said they visited all around twice
every year, although the settlements were
widely scattered; the sisters were liberal in
contributing towards the Woman’s Build-
ing. While she was in the audience in the
morning she wanted to speak of our be-
loved President, Sister Zina. Two years
ago she had visited her in her home and
should never forget the heavenly influence
she felt there when Sister Zina spoke in the
gift of tongues. She felt it was a taste of
heaven. “Let us all live exemplary
lives that we may meet Sister Zina again.”
Referred to some of the teachings of
President Franklin D. Richards that had
greatly impressed her at the time.
	Sister Charlotte E. Driver, by request
of President Jane S. Richards, represented
Weber Stake. She was thankful she was
deemed worthy to report Weber Stake.
Stated that they had a larger attendance at
their Stake conference in Ogden than we
had in Salt Lake at the General Conference
of the Relief Society. That there was no
call made upon the sisters there that was
not readily responded to. They were try-
ing to build a house to meet in there in
Ogden. They hoped to be successful in
getting the building completed. The land
had been given them. She always enjoyed
meeting with the sisters, felt it was a
privilege to meet with the Saints and to
perform all the duties and obligations re-
quired in the Church.
	Brother John Lindsey sang a solo entitled

[Column 3]
“The Better Land,” chorus by the Temple
choir, which added greatly to the enjoy-
ment of the audience.
	Counselor Asenath R. Grover, Juab
Stake, said: “We have some of the very
best sisters in our Stake, but we are badly
scattered. In Nephi, North and South
Wards, we have halls for meetings, we
hold conferences twice a year and officers’
meetings about six times a year. We have
nine hundred bushels of grain on hand, we
own some sheep and our society is prosper-
ing.”
	President Mary John, Utah Stake, said
they were doing well, gathering grain and
building houses, and were anxious to keep
pace with the times and to comply with all
requirements, and to respond to every call
made. They paid the ten cent donation
and had donated to the building. Intended
to do all in their power. Felt the loss of our
President, “Aunt Zina,” who had just left
us, had known her for many years. Knew
her to be a lovely woman. Spoke of
President Woodruff so often remembering
the Relief Society in his public speaking.
Thought it very gratifying.
	President Louisa B. Benson, Oneida
Stake, had visited around the Stake and
held meetings in most of the places. The
sisters seemed willing to respond to the
calls made upon them, and were donating
to the Woman’s Building. She would
like to say a word about Aunt Zina, realized
that the blessing she gave to her had come
to pass since the time she promised it. Felt
there had been great improvement in their
meetings.
	Counselor Adelia Crosby, Panguitch
Stake, stated they had six hundred bushels
of grain stored, but early frosts often
hinder our wheat from maturing. Had
three society halls and were contemplating
building more. The sisters seem very
willing to assist towards the Woman’s
Building. She felt inspired to press for-
ward and exhort our sisters to be up and
doing, and not lack in good works.
	President Jane S. Coleman, Wayne
Stake, reported fifteen hundred bushels of
grain stored and several thousand of mul-
berry trees planted and growing. Fifty-
two pounds of cocoons had been raised this
season. The sisters try to live up to the
spirit of the work in which we are engaged
and fulfill every duty.
	President Jane S. Richards said our time
is never long enough for all our sisters to
tell us what they are doing. We should
be glad to hear from every President here,
but time will not permit. President
Brigham Young gave much instruction to
the Relief Society. He told us to store up
wheat against a day of famine. We may
not live to see the famine, but we must do
what is required of us and all will be well.
We should keep in remembrance the coun-
sel we have had from President Young and
other brethren and sisters, and strive to live
lives of purity, and above all to be chari-
table and full of kindness. Exhorted all to
remember Sister Zina’s last address to the
conference. How precious her words were.
We must try to follow in her footsteps.
Hoped to be with her and Sister Eliza R.
Snow and the Prophet Joseph in the time
to come. Said there would be an evening
meeting when others would have an oppor-
tunity to report. Urged all to be prompt,
was glad to see some of the brethren
present.
	The Temple choir sang, sweetly, the


[Column 1]
hymn, that was sung at President Mc-
Kinley’s funeral, “Sometime We’ll
Understand.” Benediction by Elder
Joseph Daynes.

	Evening session, President Jane S.
Richards presiding. Meeting opened by
the congregation singing “Now let us
rejoice in the day of salvation.” Prayer by
Elder John R. West, of Snowflake,
Arizona. “Singing, “Come, come, ye
Saints.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith was the
first speaker. She was glad to be present
and had enjoyed the conference through
the day, hearing from the far-off places.
“While sitting here I have been thinking
what a terrible thing it would be for me to
be cast out into utter darkness Brother
Orson Pratt said those who were sent into
darkness would be so far from the light,
of the sun, that would be the cause of utter
darkness. I was always glad that I never
belonged to any church before receiving
the Gospel. I have tried to learn well
what we call Mormonism. Now we have
the light, let us try to walk in the light.”
	President Sarah J. Cannon gave some
account of her mission and visit to the
Relief Society branches of the South
Western mission. She reported having
had a splendid time at St. John, Kansas.
She and Sister Hyde, who accompanied
her, were met at the depot when they
arrived and had every attention paid them.
There were quite a number of our faith in
that place, the Mayor of the city was
friendly. The Relief Society sisters needed
instruction and they had told them how to
go about their work and carry on their
meetings. They had gathered up a little
money and sent it by them to the Woman’s
Building. Sisters Cannon and Hyde felt
full of joy that they were permitted to go over
the ground so sacred to our people. There
were three days conferences, one day for the
Relief Society. The young boys who were
there on missions had tears in their eyes
when meeting the sisters, it recalled their
mothers at home and they said, “If you see
my mother or any of my folks tell them
about us.’ We made a flying trip to
Nauvoo between the conferences. The
proprietor at the hotel took us in his car-
riage through the city and pointed out the
old landmarks. He told us that the
Temple well had never been dry. The
people come to it from far and near in
times of drouth, and it furnishes sufficient
to water the cattle as well. He showed us
where the mob had their cannons and
where they fired from upon the people at
the time of the Nauvoo battle; pointed out
the houses of Brigham Young, Heber C.
Kimball and Wilford Woodruff, that are
still standing, also the mansion house, the
residence of Joseph the Prophet, and other
notable places, telling us one was the
house of George Q. Cannon, but we told
him he was only a boy in Nauvoo, it
might have been where his father lived.
There are some well to do people in the
Church in those branches in that South
Western mission, and they want us here to
pray for them. May we all live worthy, is
my prayer. Amen.”
	Sister Annie T. Hyde hoped the Lord
would prompt her, that she might give
the instruction she desired to. She thought
President Duffin taught the boys in the
mission properly, what they should do and
how to conduct themselves. The boys

[Column 2]
that have been sent there are very young
men. Some of them have not much edu-
cation or experience in speaking, but they
do very well indeed under Brother Duffin.
While there we visited one of the largest
manufacturing establishments in Kansas
City, with the manager. We talked with
the women employed there, and they told
us of the prices for work and they were
very low prices indeed. We also
went through the restaurant and took
lunch with the manager. At St. John
they have a meeting house and a hall.
The sisters have made a number of quilts,
we brought one home The missionaries are
well fed in the country, but in Kansas city
one missionary told us he had gone three
days at one time without food. In that
city the Saints have a nice new meeting
house, nicely arranged, but they are wait-
ing and wearying to come to Zion. A
lady where we were stopping told us her
husband was at one time going to raise a
mob to drive out the Mormons. When
Carrie Nation was around this man was
killed, and the murderer flew for his life.
From Jay we went to Kansas City, there
we talked to the young men in one of the
meetings for two hours. We held one or
meetings there with the sisters. They
have comfortable quarters and meeting
rooms, and they go around from house to
bouse. We went from Kansas City over
to Independence, there we saw some of the
Saints and we went to the Josephite
Church, it is a gray stone building. The city
is building up, there are some fine residen-
ces. We saw there the widow of John
E. Page, 83 years old. She thinks that
Zion will be built there, and the pure in
heart will dwell there. In Nauvoo where
we visited we drove over to the old grave-
yard. Saw Emma Smith’s grave, the peo-
ple believe the Prophet is buried there.
We had an enjoyable time, but we scarcely
realize how we are blest here. The Saints
there are praying and living near to the
Lord.
	President Jane S. Richards made the
closing address of the Conference. Sue
said: “We have been listening to quite a
description of the country familiar to us;
and there is always something to remind us
of the Prophet. It was in Nauvoo I first
saw him. It makes one feel strange to
think of him, and then after the times
and times he was taken up and tried and
proved innocent, that he should be killed
at last. We tried to show him our respect
whenever he was with us. It was like
heaven to be in his presence and see him
come again after he had been taken away
and returned again to us. My husband
and myself visited Nauvoo and Carthage.
We wanted to hear what they had to say
before we told them we were Mormons.
They told us a great many things. We
broke a little corner off the jail. The
woman who showed us through asked us if
we would like a piece of the rock. There
is a solemnity in these historic places that
is not very interesting. The Lord has
done so much for us and we are here now
in safety, and the Lord made this country
a refuge for us, and we ought to have great
joy. When we laid down at night we did
not know whether we would be safe, but
President Young said we should never be
driven if we lived our religion. Perhaps I
am not talking right I wanted to talk
about the children, I love to see them nice
and well behaved, and I do fancy we are

[Column 3]
careless about our little children. This is
the last dispensation of the fulness of
times, and we should be devoted to the
Gospel and teach them. We are told a
great deal about our tithing, and we want
to teach it to the children. If I was weak
in the faith, the one thing I would
like would be to have some one take
hold of me and help me. If one gets a
little cold we should be careful of their
feelings. I met a boy the other day whose
parents and grandparents were good Saints.
He was nobody’s darling, and had no one
to go to for a kind word. I set down and
talked to him about what we had passed
through. He felt he had no chance to go
and get baptized. I told him to get him-
self ready, get himself into shape. I hope
and pray that he will, that is Relief Society
work, to help save souls, and we can plead
with each other, and that the Lord may
help us, is my prayer. Amen.”
	The congregation, standing, sang “Lord
dismiss us with Thy blessing.”
	President Jane S. Richards announced
that the conference was adjourned to April,
1902. Benediction, by Sister E. B. Wells.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


The Fortnightly of the Massachusetts
W. S. A. was held last Tuesday at 3 Park
Street, Boston, in spite of the rain and
heaviest fog ever seen outside of London.
The following resolutions were adopted:

	Whereas, in Colorado Miss Emma Herey has
just been re-elected county superintendent of
schools for Arapahoe county, (Denver) six parties
uniting in nominating her; and whereas women
were also chosen superintendents in many other
counties; 
	Resolved, That we call attention to the fitness
of educated and public-spirited women for such
positions, and urge a larger representation of such
women on the Boston School Board.
	Whereas in Utah, at the recent election,
Margaret Snow was chosen city treasurer of
Provo, Mrs. Ellis Day city treasurer of Mt.
Pleasant, Harriet Smith, city recorder of Logan,
Harriet L. Brown, city auditor of Ogden, and
several other women to minor offices; and where-
as, the election is reported to have been “as quiet
as a funeral”;
	Resolved, That we call attention to the civiliz-
ing effect of equal suffrage on election methods,
and to the fact that it opens to the women oppor-
tunities for civic usefulness elsewhere closed to
them.


Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

