Vol. 30.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1901.	No. 5


CONTENTS.
A Story of Unrequited Love . . . . . L. D. Alder	33
R. S. Reports. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	36
Obituary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . E. H. Goddard	39
Alpine Stake . . . . . . . . . . .Emma Featherstone	39

EDITORIAL—Impressive Funeral Services. . .	36
	Conference Notices. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	37
	Editorial Notes. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	37
	A Day of Prayer and Mourning. . . . . . . . .	37
	Memorial Services. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	37
	A Terrible Tragedy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .	38
	Tabernacle Memorial Services. . . . . . . . . .	39

POETRY—Sunshine from Above. . . . . . . . . N.	33
	Our Beloved Mother. . . . . . . Ruth M. Fox	35


For the EXPONENT.
SUNSHINE FROM ABOVE.

The sunshine streams upon my soul,
	Which opens to its welcome ray;
It thrills me through, it lights the whole
	As doth the sun the summer's day.

My soul exults, responsive sings,
	As if to burst the bands I feel;
My morning psalm with music rings,
	My even song doth richer peal!

'Tis praise and prayer in one combined,
	(For Father lives—He hears my cry)
And these are every day enshrined,
	Around my Altar built quite nigh!

Jerusalem is far away,
	Its glories faded, overthrown,
In later temples I would stay,
	I cannot do this no! ah no!

But in my quiet home I built
	A rare shekinah to His name;
Beneath it buried all my guilt—
	Consumed by Love's celestial flame!

My heart is His, though weak am I,
	His strength is mine in life's rough way,
And I shall triumph by and by,
	To share with Him unclouded day!

N.


[Column 1]
A STORY OF UNREQUITED LOVE.
	It was in the early summer, long, long
ago, when life was in its springtime; each
day glorious and sunny, slowly went out
in a sea of gold at the western gate.
	Then it was that this story of unrequited
love saddened the hearts of the actors,
darkened nature’s fair prospect, and brought
into it a quiver of pain, that the long years
have failed to obliterate.
	This lover was fair to look upon. Rather
above the medium height, with brown hair
and blue eyes, out of which a pleading
look often met your own. Features clear-
cut, with aquline nose, a broad forehead
softened by the slight wave of the hair.
The expression of the mouth was some-
what sad, his manner quiet and very re-
tiring. He would be noticed anywhere,
and one would glance at him the second
time.
	There was a cause for this sadness and
lack of companionship, that made him
different to others of his age.
	He spoke of his life; of the dear old
father and mother he had left on Erin’s
Green Isle; of his childhood and his ram-
bles in the fields when primroses were in
bloom. He was not of that land, but of

[Column 2]
Scotch descent, his forefathers having fled
to Ireland for peace during the turbulent
times that were such a bane to Scotland.
	He was the youngest of the family, had
been the household pet. But when the
older brother, who had come over to
America, had gathered some wealth, he
sent the means to the home he still loved
fondly, asking his younger brother to
come to him. He offered to give him a
start in the world and desired his loving
companionship. Though tender chords
were to be severed and eyes bedimmed with
tears, he decided to leave the home of his
childhood, and those who loved him more
than life, and go to his brother.
	With a heart sad, yet hopeful, he set sail
for the fair land of America. It was
not in those days as now. Crossing the
mighty deep consumed weeks, and months
were consumed in the journey that is now
counted by a few days.
	But all went well, and in safety he
reached the land where years before his
brother had found a home. From the
Atlantic coast he must travel by rail many
miles before he reached his brother. At
last he arrived. Going to the address sent
him, heart beating with love and hungry
for the warm embrace he knew awaited
him, he knocked at the door.
	A strange face greeted him, and on ask-
ing for his brother he was told that two
weeks before he was laid in his grave.
Stunned, he stood gazing at the one who
imparted this terrible intelligence.
	He was invited to enter; was shown into
his brother’s room and bade welcome. As
in a dream, from which he thought he
must surely awaken and find it but the
fancy of a troubled brain, he listened to the
recital of the death of that dear brother.
	How he had longed to see him, and de-
sired with the deepest desire to live until
he should come.
	But the angel Azriel had called, and in
obedience to the summons, his spirit had
fled from its prison house. Everything
that he had accumulated through years of
toil and privation, storing up with a loving
hand to keep those across the sea, he had
given to this, his youngest brother. All
this he could not realize, but his heart
cried for love; the love of which he had
dreamed, and the happy meeting that the
waves of the sea had whispered about in
their soft ripples, when the moonlight on its
bosom made it look transparent even as
glass. He could hear his brother’s voice in
the winds that played at evening, kissing
his cheek and fanning his brow.
	Was this the end? A stranger in a
strange land, a sense of loneliness utterly
indescribable filled his heart.
	But life must be lived, and to a noble
nature it must be lived well. So gradually
he picked up the threads that had been
severed and began to take interest in the
business that his brother had bequeathed
him.
	Over the sea he had sent the sad story,
that would bring sorrow to the dear ones
in the old home there, weakening the frail
moorings still more that held them in life.

[Column 3]
	The heart of youth is elastic, and early
sorrows grow dimmer and dimmer as time
passes on.
	The springtime brought buds of promise,
that partly healed the wounded heart.
Love, the Queen of all the earth, entered
and enthroned herself, rearing an altar
where roses bloomed in luxuriance and the
flowers of Paradise abounded.
	This tender love dream filled the whole
world with divine radiance. That he
would not be loved in return never entered
his mind. He was sure that love like his
must bring a like heavenly sympathy.
	So he told her of the home over the sea;
the fond mother waiting there to welcome
his bride and bestow the kiss of love on the
one he had so vividly painted as the very
perfection of modest and pure maidenhood.
He daily built castles in the air, so entranc-
ingly beautiful, but without foundation; so
airy and fairy, but without occupant.
	“How glad she will be to see my darl-
ing,” he often said when whiling away the
time in fond anticipations of the happy re-
turn over the wide, blue sea, with love as
the beacon light.
	He had asked her father if he might pay
his addresses, and received permission, but
her he had never asked. So the days went
by, dreams of love for him, uneasiness and
sadness for her, until the long decided time
came and the word had to be spoken that
fell like a blow, quenching forever the love
light in those thoughtful eyes.
	Oh, why was he so blind? Why could
he not understand that her manner was
only friendly, not even free from restraint?
How could he love on and the fire of love
be fed when naught but dust and ashes
were heaped on the hearth?
	It was when the summer days were
drawing to a close and autumn, with her
faint coloring of crimson and gold, made
the woods so inviting.
	“Cannot love me?” faltered the ashy
lips, “not be my wife? Then there is
another,” he said.
	“Yes, there is another. You have often
heard his name mentioned. He will come
tonight.”
	Anger flashed from his eyes; bitter words
and threats that should have remained for-
ever unuttered, were foilowed by a cold
good evening, and he was gone.
	All was over. In one heart love was
dead, in the other hope was living and
whispering of a day when love would have
a rosy awakening. Yet regret and anguish
for the pain caused to one esteemed as a
dear friend, brought sorrow.
	Years passed on, but the actors in that
scene had never met.
	Often she had thought of him, remem-
bered many little acts of loving kindness,
and wondered if he were happy. A
woman always thinks gently of one who
has been a lover, and though the years be
long that intervene, there is a thrill of inter-
est in him, mingled with pity and pain.
	She had been a bride, then a mother, be-
fore fate brought their two lives in touch
again. It was at a grand ball given by the
English residents of the city where they


[column 1]
lived. Carriage after carriage drove up,
bringing fair maidens daintily dressed,
and matrons richly attired, blazing with
jewels, to the festive scene. Stepping
lightly over the carpet, they enter the
spacious hall accompanied by beau or 
spouse.
	All is excitement; scarcely a thought,yet,
as to who was there, in that vast assemblage
Strains of music are wafted from unseen
players, and the dancers glide over the 
polished floor.
	Who is that fine looking stranger advanc-
cing? Is it he? No, it cannot be. A
mist arises before her eyes; her heart stands 
still.
	"We met, 'twas in a crowd,
	And I thought he would shun me,
	He came, I could not breathe,
	For his eye was upon me.
	He spoke, his words were cold,
	But his tone was unaltered,
	I knew how much he felt,
	For his deep-toned voice faltered.
	He called me by my name,
	As the bride of another."

She looked up trembling. He asked for
a dance.
	"My husband," she faltered.
	"I have your husband's permission," he
said.
	Deferentially prottering his arm, she
leaned upon him as in former days.
	Through the crowd they wended their 
way.
	"Let us promenade," he said, entering
the hall. "I want to talk to you." Look-
ing down upon her, "You have made just
the woman I thought you would," he 
said. "I am not disappointed in you; and
how old is the little one?"
	"A little over a year."
	He spoke kindly now, and fear left the
heart of his companion. He talked on of
things around them, then of the past.
	"I am sorry," he said, "for the unkind
words I spoke, you were not to blame; but
should he ever be unkind to you," clinch-
ing his hand. "Well," he continued, "I 
want you to promise me, should you ever
need a friend and I am anywhere in the
world, you will let me be that friend.
Promise me, will you call on me? I shall
never marry. I loved once, and it was for-
ever, for me there is none henceforth. Will 
you promise?"
	"Yes," was the faint response. "But,
O, you will love again some day; a fair
young girl will love you for your good-
ness."
	"No," he said, "I shall never marry.
Never will I see one like you, never one
that I can love. Thank you for the
promise. You will never be without a
friend while I live. I would come to you
over land or sea. Let us go in to dance."
	To the strains of a dreamy waltz they
gracefully kept time. Among the light
and gay they seemed as others. Stately
among the young and giddy, they moved
among the dancers, his arm clasped lightly
around her. It was the last time, yet no
one but themselves knew that this was a
meeting and a parting. The music almost
sobbed as it died away, and for a moment a
stillness fell around.
	Bending low over her hand, "Good bye,"
he said, and was gone.
	Sadness unutterable filled her heart as
she watched him until he was lost among
the throng. Thankful she was to God for
his kind words and thoughts, for his gentle
demeanor: In her eyes tears welled up for

[Column 2]
his wrecked life, and a prayer that a loving
wife might some day reign in his heart and
home, making the world bright and happy
for him.
	Years brought changes in her life. Far 
away from youthful scenes her lot had
been cast. Many children had come to her
home, but she had never wanted that
friend. No tidings of him had ever come
from the home far away. They were as
widely separated as tho' the sea rolled be-
tween them.
	Sorrows came to her, as they do to most
of us. Then came dark days, and the
promise so solemnly given clamored for ful-
fillment. But where was he? Still in the
land of the living? His fate was uncertain;
but wherever he might be, she is thankful
that they parted friends; friends they could
be forever.
	At last, when her hair was silvered with
the dust of time and grandchildren played
around her knee, a schoolmate of that long
ago came to see her, bringing news that he
was dead, only a year before.
	"Did he ever marry?" she asks.
	"No, but his sister came to him and
kept house for him. He left her all his
wealth."
	He had kept his word. The light and 
music of the ballroom rushes before her.
The odor of flowers and waving of fans and
the words, "I shall never marry, I loved
once and it was forever," ring out as
though they were just spoken.
	"You know the reason why," the friend
continued. The years roll back like a
scroll, as a panorama the scenes are por-
trayed. Again he clasps her hand as he
says, "Good bye, remember," when he 
passed out of her life forever.

	The loss, the cross, the pain, the tear,
		Gone with the Springtime's breath;
	Naught but peace can enter here,
		The vale of silent Death.
	'Tis not in vain we suffer so,
		The stream is purified;
	The torrents smoothly glide below,
		That lash the moutain side.
	
	And strength is born in throes of pain,
		Eyes clearly see that weep;
	The heart bowed down will rise again,
		We plant before we reap.
	
	So God's decrees, one endless round,
		We'll find are wise and best;
	No stitches dropped, not thread unwound,
		The woof withstands the test. 
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.
SALT LAKE STAKE.

	The quarterly conference of the Salt
Lake Stake Relief Society met in the As-
sembly Hall, September 7th, at 10 a. m.,
President M. I. Horne presiding. Singing,
“Let us pray, gladly pray.” Prayer by J.
S. Woolley. Song, “Redeemer of Israel.”
	Present on the stand were Sisters M. I.
Horne, Annie T. Hyde, Clara C. Cannon,
B. W. Smith, S. J. Cannon, Maria Wilcox
and Julia C. Howe.
	Out of the 30 branches of the Relief
Society, 28 were represented. The statis-
tical and financial reports were read. The
society reports and remarks concerning
business matters were made by Counselor
Annie T. Hyde and Sister Clarissa S. Wil-
liams, treasurer for the Woman’s Building.
	President Horne addressed the society.
Said there should be a representative from
the presidency of each branch of the society

[Column 2]
at all our conferences; that we should be
faithful and alive in attending to our duties,
and not allow worldly pleasure to induce us
to neglect weightier matters. Told the
sisters to store wheat, and not keep the
money to buy it on hand.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke on the law of
tithing and on honesty.
	The congregation sang “How firm a
foundation.”
	Sister S. J. Cannon spoke of the noble
qualities of Sister Zina D. H. Young. Felt
we should treasure up her counsel and ad-
vice. Enlarged on the blessings of the Re-
lief Society; in the world they were appre-
ciated by the missionaries.
	Sister Maria W. Wilcox spoke upon the
necessity of working for our dead.
	Sister Martha Morris sang a hymn.
	Sister C. S. Williams spoke a few mo-
ments on the cultivation of love and kind-
ness in our homes and elsewhere.
	Meeting adjourned till 2 o’clock. Sing 
ing. “We thank Thee, O God, for a proph-
et.” Benediction by Julia C. Howe.
	Afternoon session of the R. S. conference
opened by the Temple choir singing
“Glorious things are sung of Zion.” Pray-
er by Clara C. Cannon. The Temple choir
quartette sang “Zion stands with hills sur-
rounded. Minutes of last conference read
and approved. The address delivered to
the General Society by President Snow, at
Saltair, was read by Counselor Annie T.
Hyde.
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt she was ad-
dressing her friends, the members of the
Relief Society. She felt we were encour-
aged by our brethren. Thought that our
works would be more appreciated in the
future. Spoke of blessings accrueing from
tithe paying. Felt the Woman’s Building
will be a credit to us, and our children will
appreciate our efforts in this regard. Knew
that women active in the Relief Society
made better wives and mothers. Felt we
should sustain each other by our prayers.
	Sister Hyde felt President Snow’s ad-
vice is priceless to us, it gives us much en-
couragement. Felt there were many young
women who would come to the meetings if
they were invited. Felt we should grow in
our organization. Spoke of the death of
Sister Zina D. H. Young, and her teach-
ings of love and charity to the sisters;
also of the attempted assassination of
President McKinley, and how secret organ-
izations were growing among our people,
felt it would take all the strength that we
can get to fight against the power of the
adversary. Exhorted all to purify them-
selves and do as they would wish to be
done by.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon felt that
much that was beneficial had been dwelt
upon. She would try and exert herself to
attend more faithfully to her duties. If we
did we would be stronger mentally and
physically. Said school ourselves, speak
no evil, do good to all. As sisters of the
society we should visit the new comers,
those who have joined the Church. Was
thankful we know we have the true Gos-
pel.
	Sister Hull sang a solo, accompanied by
the Temple choir.
	Sister R. R. Grant said it should be a
pleasure to bear a testimony of the Gospel
emanating from God. Spoke of her son,
Apostle Grant, and his experience in Japan.
We are not dependent upon any one for a
knowledge of the Gospel, if we keep His


[column 1]
commandments. Referred to the privileges
of the young people, thought it seemed as
if peace were being taken from the earth.
The trials of the Saints prepare them to
bear greater ones. Felt that no people
were so blessed as we are, we have every-
thing to encourage us to faithfulness and
diligence.
	President B. W. Smith felt the loss of
Sister Zina, thought we should appreciate
President Horne and listen to her counsel.
"It will only be a few days till we pass on,
so be happy, do not worry about our food
or clothing.” Alluded to the pleasure of
Temple work. Said she had worked in the
Temple in Nauvoo, had received her en-
dowments there when the Prophet Joseph
was living.
	President S. J. Cannon said, “We must
each do our work; we should meet together
and get instruction to do the work in our
own wards and our homes. There are
30,000 women in our society and much
good can be accomplished by them. Felt
it was very necessary to instruct our boys
for missionary labors.
	The choir and quartette sang “Softly
beams the sacred dawing.” 
	Julia S. Woolley spoke a few moments
on an increase of faith.
	President Horne instructed the presidents
to look after their poor, as winter
was now approaching. Be wise and not
make paupers of our poor. Urged the sis-
ters to interest themselves in Temple work
said she had also worked in the Nau-
voo Temple. Felt the Lord always
blesses us in our labors. Our faith should
be increased in healing the sick.
	Conference adjourned till December.
Singing, Doxology. Benediction by Elder
C. J. Thomas.
					J. S. Wolley, Sec.

		BEAR LAKE STAKE.

	The annual conference of the Relief
Society of Bear Lake Stake, convened in
the Ovid meeting house, July 27, 1901, at
10 a. m. Present on the stand were
President J. S. Lindsay, Counselor L. M.
Hart and Mary Bagley; Sisters M. I.
Horne and E. J. Stevenson, of the General
Board of the Relief Society, and a number
of the presidents of the different branches
of the Relief Society in Bear Lake, J. P.
Lindsay presiding.
	Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s sincere de-
sire.” Prayer, Elder John Bagley. Sing-
ing, “Earth with her ten thousand flowers.”
Roll called, minutes of previous conference
read and approved.
	President Lindsay expressed her gratifi-
cation for the privilege of meeting together
in so pleasant a room, but felt somewhat
disappointed at the small attendance.
	A number of the branches were reported
by the presidents.
	Sister Stevenson addressed the conference.
Spoke at some length on the magnanimity
of the Relief Society work. Much more
would have been accomplished had all
been as interested as some have been. The
Prophet Joseph said every virtuous woman
in the Church should have her name en-
rolled in the Relief Society. We may gain
much valuable experience, and we are told
we learn nothing truly but that which we
learn by experience. The mission of the
teachers of the Relief Society is a very im-
portant one. They should seek God for
His Spirit, for the spirit of discernment
that they may say that which is most

[column 2]
needed in each home. Spoke further in an
interesting way on many important sub-
jects.
	Singing, “Our God, we raise to Thee.”
Benediction by Elder E. M. Allred.
	Afternoon session, President Lindsay
presiding. Hymn, “High on the moun-
tain top appearing.” Prayer by Bishop
Philemon Lindsay. Hymn, “Redeemer of
Israel.”
	A number more verbal reports were
given.
	President Lindsay expressed the pleasure
she felt in having with us the sisters from
Salt Lake City. The instructions received
from Sister Horne in her previous visits to
our conferences had been a great benefit to
her in her labors.
	Sister M. I. Horne said she noticed a
marked improvement in Ovid since her
visit a few years since. The new meeting
house erected, although not elaborate, is
neat and comfortable. These organizations
were effected that woman may prepare her-
self as well as man for the other life. That
we may learn the plan of salvation, as well
as to look after the poor and sick.
	We are more greatly blessed than all
other dispensations. We have no history
of the Father and Son appearing to any
other prophet. The great work that the
Prophet Joseph was to perform was told
hlm by the Savior. We have the benefit
of direct revelation recorded in the Doctrine
and Covenants. These instructions were
given for our guidance. We are comfort-
ably settled in our peaceful homes and
should not forget our obligations. Some
are becoming careless about storing grain.
Our records as well as those of the breth-
ren should be properly kept. Urged the
sisters to make an effort to assist in erecting
the Woman’s Building in Salt Lake City.
Hoped the sisters would patronize the EX-
PONENT. It is very essential for our girls
to be educated, for fhey are to bear the
souls of men. Asked the blessings of God
upon all.
	Sister Stevenson admonished the sisters
to be good housekeepers, a house of order
is a fit place for the Spirit of God. It is a
part of our religion to learn to keep a home
in order. Poverty is no disgrace, although
very inconvenient, but we can, even in the
midst of this have orderly homes, have our
meals at regular hours, retire early and
rise early that we may be blessed with wis-
dow. Spoke very interestingly of an inter-
view she had with one of the Book of Mor-
mon witnesses.
	President Lindsay had rejoiced greatly in
listening to the words of counsel given.
Hoped that all would awaken to a sense of
their duty, and that the young sisters would
attend the Relief Society meetings. The
time is short for us to labor, it rests with us
whether we are true to our religion.
	Hymn. “Praise to the man who com-
muned with Jehovah.” Benediction, Elder
E. M. Allred.
	The Relief Society conference again con-
vened on Sunday at 2 p. m. After the
usual opening exercises an address by
President Lorenzo Snow, given at Saltair,
July 9, to the ladies, officers and members
of the Relief Society, was read by Counsel-
or L. M. Hart.
	President M. I. Horne said it is very
gratifying to see the good attendance. De-
sired to say that which would be most bene-
ficial to all. The Lord knew the desire
His daughters had to serve him and has

[column 3]
granted us the privilege of being organized.
Those who are faithful members of the
society are in advance of those who are not 
thus identified. We are in the chambers of 
the mountains, God has brought us. There
are beautiful cities, fields and gardens,
where a short time since it was a wild
desert place; and yet some of us have not
time to attend to our duties, but are using 
too much time in seeking the wealth of the
world. Spoke on the necessity of prayer, 
keeping the Sabbath day holy and obeying 
the law of tithing.
	Sister Stevenson felt it no small task to
address a congregation of Latter-day Saints. 
Women should be educated Husbands
encourage your wives to attend our confer- 
ences, even if you have a cold lunch on that 
day. How can your wives be companion-
able for you, if they have no opportunities
for obtaining knowledge, and where is a
better place than at our Relief Society 
meetings. Spoke on woman’s noble mis-
sion and the great good she can accomplish 
if guided by the Holy Spirit. 
	Counselor Mary Bagley knew the only
way to future greatness is to be obedient to 
the counsels given by those who are direc-
ted by the Spirit of God. Esteemed it a
great privilege to be a member of the Relief
Society, Testified that the instructions
given to us during our conference had been
words of inspiration.
	Sister M. I Horne spoke a short time on 
the rights and privileges of the sisters as 
given us by the Prophet Joseph when 
we were first organized, and said the rights
have not always been properly understood
by the brethren.
	President Wm. Budge made a few clos- 
ing remarks, and it was then moved and 
seconded that Sister Louisa Fuller be sus-
tained as corresponding secretary of the  
Relief Society of Bear Lake Stake.
	The choir sang an anthem. Benediction
by Bishop Clark.
				N. H. ALLRED, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


OUR BELOVED MOTHER.
ZINA D. H. YOUNG.

Sleep, belov’d mother, sleep,
Rest thee a little while;
Then mount to the eternal skies,
And ope thine eyes in glad surprise;
And read on banners waving high,
“Behold the just shall never die,”

Thy life was beautiful,
Replete with noble deeds,
Right royal shall thy welcome be,
Lo, all the harps are strung for thee
And marshalled is the heav’nly choir,
Whose strains the very Gods inspire.

Thou wert exalted here,
Of women the elect;
But yonder there awaits for thee,
A crown for thy fidelity,
A place upon our Lord’s right hand,
A joy we cannot understand.

We miss thy cheering words,
In blessing on our heads,
Thy never-failing charity,
Thy marv’lous gift of prophecy,
And sacred tongues, thy faith sublime,
Thy perfect trust, all these were thine.

And yet, we cannot mourn,
We so rejoice in thee;
But we will strive by his good grace,
Again to see thy saintly face,
To tread the path which thou hast trod,
Yea, even to the throne of God.
					RUTH M. FOX.


Mrs. French, of Helena, Montana, is
Chief Deputy Collector of international
Revenue.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year. $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	dvertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpariel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER, 1901.


[Column 1]
IMPRESSIVE FUNERAL SERVICES.
	The funeral services of our beloved
Mother in Israel and General President of
the Relief Society, Mrs. Zina D. H. Young,
were held in the Salt Lake Assembly Hall,
in this city, Sabbath morning, September
1, at 10 a. m.
	The hall was crowded to its utmost ca-
pacity, the white draping and beautiful
flowers were fitting emblems of a pure life,
abounding with love and sympathy as
sweet as the lilies and roses, tokens of
friendship and affection from those who
prized her loving and sweet companionship
in life. The Temple workers gave a de-
sign of the Temple in purple and white
asters, very striking; the General Board of
the Relief Society, a magnificent “Gates
Ajar;” the Salt Lake Board, R. S., an ele-
gant crown in white roses; Weber Stake R.
S., an unique harp of choice flowers,
artistically arranged; the Y. L. M. I. A., a
pillow; the Primary Association, a harp of
asters and roses; the children of Sister Zina,
a sheaf of wheat and a sickle of roses with
a semicircle bearing the word “MOTHER,”
the whole surmounted with a beautiful
crown; the Utah Silk Commision, of which
she was president, a wreath of purple asters
and white roses, tied with Utah silk in
white. There were many other floral gifts,
testimonies of the love and esteem in which
Aunt Zina was held.
	On the stand were the venerable Presi-
dent, Lorenzo Snow, and many of the
Church authorities, also the officers of the
General Board of the Relief Society.
	President Angus M. Cannon presided
over the services which were opened by the
Tabernacle choir singing “When first the
glorious light of truth,” a favorite hymn of
Aunt Zina’s.
	The opening prayer was offered by
Apostle Anthon H. Lund, and the services
were continued with the solo, “Awake my
Soul,” sung by Prof. H. S. Goddard.
	The first speaker was President Snow,
who prefaced his address by saying that
many would call this a solemn occasion,
but he thought that when a man or woman
goes faithfully through life and have per-
formed their mission properly, there is no
occasion to mourn. Exaltation follows
their course. President Snow said that he
first met Aunt Zina 65 years ago when she
was 15 years of age. Since that time he
had been intimately acquainted with her,
and he did not know of a woman whose
duties in life were performed more effec-
tually than hers. He said that in viewing

[Column 2]
her past life he was filled with pride and
thanksgiving. We cannot help but shed
tears, but how happy is the contemplation
that she has passed out of life and gone to
her exaltation. The relatives of the de-
ceased were admonished to follow in her
steps, to make as few mistakes as she made
and their glory would be sure. The
Apostle John was bidden to write, “Blessed
are those who die in the Lord,” for their
works will live after them. It was so with
Aunt Zina, her works will live after her.
“We ought to feel in our hearts,” said
President Snow, “that God is our Father,
and that while we make mistakes and are
weak yet if we live as nearly perfect as we
can all will be well with us. This sister
has lived in this way. When she was sud-
denly stricken with the blow that took her
consciousness away, she was prepared to
go and meet her Maker. Now, I say to
you all, brothers and sisters, do likewise.”
	The next speaker was Mrs. Jane S.
Richards, first counselor to Aunt Zina, as
president of the Relief Society. She said
she could endorse every word that Presi-
dent Snow had said of her beloved sister.
She had known Aunt Zina between fifty
and sixty years and in her there was no
variation. The kingdom of God was al-
ways first with her. Mrs. Richards bore a
strong testimony to the divinity of the
Gospel and the good that is being done by
the Relief Society. “Sister Zina,” she
continued, “has often gone to the bedside
of the sick when she herself was feeling ill,
and she has returned feeling strong for
having done her duty. Aunt Zina was an
example to all of us, and if I can go where
she and Sister Eliza R. Snow are, I will
feel repaid for having lived.”
	Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith was the next
speaker. She met Aunt Zina in 1840, at a
meeting in which the power of God was
manifest. The two friends had been like
sisters ever since. She did not think it
would be many years before she would
meet Aunt Zina again, and the others who
had gone before her. She asked those
present to continue the labor of love. To
visit the sick and afflicted and comfort
those who are cast down.
	The succeeding speaker was Mrs. Emme-
line B. Wells. She had said that she could
not speak on this occasson, for she was
naturally emotional, and she loved Aunt
Zina greatly. She rejoiced over the glori-
ous life of the departed, who was associated
now with such women as “Mother” Whit-
ney, Eliza R. Snow, Emily D. Young, Marin-
da Hyde a d others who had already passed
away. Sister Wells alluded to the gift of
tongues and interpretation that Sister Zina
had enjoyed in such perfection and the
songs of Zion so sweetly rendered by
“Mother” Whitney. “I mourn for Sister
Zina and I cannot help it. No woman was
ever greater beloved than Sister Zina. I think
of all the beautiful attributes that adorn
women on earth, she had the most heaven-
ly, humility. She had another of the
great virtues, obedience. She was obe-
dient to the authorities of the Church and
obedient to her own conscience. And she
had many other great and noble virtues.”
	Elder Seymour B. Young was the next
speaker. He began by saying that Aunt
Zina returned from Canada last Sunday in
a comatose condition. On Tuesday morn-
ing he asked her if she knew him and she
opened her eyes and said yes. That was
the only time that she seemed to recognize

[Column 3]
any one. “She was indeed a noble
woman,” said the speaker. “You all
know how tender her heart was. I think
she was made of the stuff of which martyrs
are made. She has proven often that she
would lay down her life for the mainten-
ance of truth. She was a very cleanly
woman. Clean in language, thought and
action.” Elder Young went on to tell of
the work that Aunt Zina had performed; of
the hardships and sacrifices she endured
and the devotion she showed to the sick and
the poor. She was a woman who loved
the truth, and loved her fellow man. It
did not make so much difference what
creed one possessed if he were in need he
could easily appeal to the heart of Aunt
Zina. She was not only a good and tender-
hearted mother, but she took other chil-
dren to her heart and reared them like her
own, and marked out the path for them to
walk in. She was a woman of deep humil-
ity and she always did all she could, al-
though doubting her own ability to do
much. Aunt Zina’s name and character
will live after her and will endure forever.”
	Elder John Nicholson was the next
speaker, and he began by saying that he
had listened with pleasure and interest to
all that had been said of Aunt Zina. “In
all my experience and observation,” said
he, “I never heard a more glowing and
glorious tribute paid to any one that had
passed from this sphere to the beyond, than
has been paid to Aunt Zina, and I can say
that it is all the truth. This indicates to
me how close a son or daughter can ap-
proach to the carrying out of that admoni-
tion, ‘be ye perfect, even as your Father
which is in heaven is perfect.’ I have
never heard of any failing that she pos-
sessed. If she had any, I have failed in
getting the information. Those who over-
come the most shall receive the most
glorious inheritance that can be given to
mortal man, and that is what Aunt Zina
has done and she has gone to her reward.
Elder Nicholson paid a most eloquent tri-
bute to the character of Aunt Zina, which
he said perhaps shone with greatest luster
within the circle of her own family. It
was attested in the fact that the love of her
foster children had for her was in no de-
gree less than that of her own children.”
This, thought the speaker, spoke volumes
for her impartiality, and her great sense of
justice.
	Miss Arvilla Clark sang “Gently, Lord,
Oh Gently Lead us,” a beautiful song
rendered in exquisite style.
	Apostle A. H. Lund spoke next. He
said that many glorious things had been
said of the departed, but he thought she
merited them all. Aunt Zina was more
than a friend. She has been “Aunt Zina”
to all Israel. “What a gentle, pure
woman she was,” said the speaker. “All
her life from the time she was a young
woman had been spent in the service of the
Lord. She was a woman in whom the
spiritual nature was well developed, al-
though she was very practical. She loved
her neighbor; loved to do good to others.
She was a blessing wherever she traveled.
What a noble character she had. When
the sons and daughters of God come up to
receive their reward, Aunt Zina will be one
of that happy throng on the right hand of
God, to whom it will be said, “I was sick
and in prison and ye visited me.” Aunt
Zina has laid up riches that are unfading. I
believe that every unselfish act we per-


form will be counted as a treasure for us
on the other side, and I believe that Sister
Zina has laid up many, many treasures of
this kind.”
	President Angus M. Cannon spoke
next, saying that he had known
Aunt Zina for fifty years. If ever a
woman lived inclined to do her Heavenly
Father’s will rather than her own, it was
Aunt Zina. The speaker went on to pay
tribute to the life and character of the de-
parted, and expressed the hope that her
children and children’s children shall live
worthy to go where she is.
	The next speaker was Elder C. W. Pen-
rose, who began by quoting the words of
the Bible, “Be ye also ready.” Aunt Zina
was always ready when called upon to at-
tend the duties of her office in ministering
unto sick and fallen humanity. She was
also ready when the time came, to go and
meet her Maker. The last the speaker saw
of Aunt Zina was in Ogden last Sunday,
but he expected to see her again when she
is clothed upon by the glory of God. He
had known her for forty years, and it
seemed to him that her life was a benedic-
tion. In every respect she was a saint of
God. She was indeed a noble and blessed
woman and her name will be heard among
her people always. If we are faithful and
true, concluded the speaker, we will join
her and all the noble ones who have gone
before, and receive the glorious crown that
is in waiting for all the good and the faith-
ful.
	The choir sang “O, my Father,” and
the benediction was pronounced by Bishop
W. B. Preston.
	While the casket was borne slowly out
of the building, followed by the family of
the deceased, the audience remained seated.
The long funeral cortege was formed on
South Temple, making a line of vehicles
reaching from the Bee Hive House to West
Temple Street. The interment was made
in the City cemetery, the grave being dedi-
cated by Apostle Lund. A quartette from
the Tabernacle choir sang "Nearer, My
God, to Thee,” and after the coffin was
covered, the mourners returned to the city.
	Not the least touching and beautiful
feature of the funeral was the fact that the
pallbearers were sons of the late President
Young, who had loved Aunt Zina as a
mother. They were Hyrum S., Oscar B.,
Don Carlos, Morris, Lorenzo D. and
Alonzo Young.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SEMI-ANNUAL CONFERENCE.

	The Seventy-second Semi-annual Confer-
ence of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints will commence on Fri-
day, October 4, at 10 a. m. in the Taber-
nacle in this city.
			LORENZO SNOW,		
			JOSEPH F. SMITH,
				First Presidency.


ANNUAL BUSINESS MEETING
	The regular annual business meeting of
the National Woman’s Relief Society will
be held on Monday, October 7, at two
o’clock p. m,. in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this city. All officers and mem-
bers of this society are invited to be pres-
ent.
E. B. WELLS,
General Secretary.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly Hall in this city, on Thursday,
October 3, meetings commencing at 10 a.
m. and at 2 p. m. It is desired that each
Stake organization should be represented
by its president or some one of its officers,
or a member authorized to report. A
cordial invitation is extended to all mem-
bers of the society and to the Bishops and
brethren interested in its welfare to be
present, also to the Y. L. N. M. I. A. and
Primary organizations.
JANE S. RICHARDS,
Acting President.
BATHSHEBA W. SMITH,
SARAH JENNE CANNON,
Counselors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Secretary.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	Through letters received and messages
sent we have been notified of Memorial 
Meetings, in honor of President Zina D. H.
Young, being held by many branches of
the Relief Society in the several Stakes of
Zion. Everywhere her loss is deeply felt
and her memory fondly cherished; for more
than fifty years her name has been a house-
hold word in the homes of the Latter-day
Saints. Let the children of today and of
coming generations be taught to reverence
her name as a Mother in Israel whose hero-
ic example and noble life can never be for-
gotten.
	Visits have been made by the General
Board recently to Stake conferences and
meetings. Kanab Stake, Sister Elizabeth 
J. Stevenson; South Sanpete and Granite
Stakes, Sister Lydia D. Alder; to Relief
Society conferences in Southwestern
mission, St. John, Jay and Kansas City,
Sisters Sarah Jenne Cannon and Annie T.
Hyde; St. George Stake, Sisters Mary Alice
Lambert and Margaret A. Caine; to Woodruff
Stake, Sisters Susan Grant and Lydia D. 
Alder; to Weber Stake, Sisters Emmeline
B. Wells and Emily S. Richards; to Juab
Stake, Sisters M. Isabella Horne and Julia
C. Howe, and to Cassia Stake, Sisters
Elizabeth J. Stevenson and Louisa L.
Greene Richards. Everywhere the sisters
have been warmly received and meetings
and conferences have been generally well
attended and great interest manifested in
the work of this benevolent organization.


[Column 1]
A DAY OF PRAYER AND MOURNING.
GOVERNOR WELLS’ PROCLAMATION.
	In answer to an inquiry as to the more
fitting day for the people of Utah to ob-
serve as memorial day, Governor Wells re-
ceived the following word from the late
President’s secretary, George B. Cortelyou:
	Buffalo, N. Y., September 15, 1901:—
Hon. Heber M. Wells, Governor of Utah,
Salt Lake City, Utah: Thursday, Sep-
tember 19th, is the day set for funeral ser-
vices at Canton, O.; that would be proper
day to set apart for mourning and prayer.
GEORGE B. CARTELYOU.
	Governor Wells thereupon issued the fol-
lowing proclamation:
	Whereas in His infinite wisdom it has
pleased the Almighty to permit to be re-
moved from this life the great and good

[Column 2]
head of this nation, William McKinley,
late President of the United States, who
died at the city of Buffalo, in the State of
New York, on the 14th day of September,
1901, of mortal wounds inflicted upon him
by an assassin; and
	“Whereas, it is fitting that the people of
Utah, sharing with the people of the
Union and of the world the universal grief
upon a misfortune so unexpected and so
overwhelming, should be afforded an op-
portunity to manifest their veneration and
love for the illustrious dead, their detesta-
tion of the hideous crime that has laid him
low, their sympathy for his stricken widow,
the crushing sorrow that fills their hearts
in contemplation of a national calamity so
appalling and the gratitude that the wis-
dom of the fathers, foreseeing such dread-
ful possibilities, provided that the govern-
ment should not be destroyed because of
the uncertainty of human life; and
	“Whereas, the President of the United
States, Theodore Roosevelt, has appointed
Thursday, the 19th day of September, the
day upon which the remains of our dead
President will be consigned to their final
resting place at Canton, O., to be observed
throughout the United States as a day for
holding memorial services;
	Now, therefore, in obedience to sacred
duty, in deference to the desires of the peo-
ple and in conformity with the proclama-
tion of the President, I, Heber M. Wells,
Governor of the state of Utah, by virtue
of the authority vested in me by the laws
of this state, do hereby proclaim Thurs-
day, the 19th day of September, 1901, to
be a day of humiliation, of fast, of mourn-
ing and of prayer, to be observed as a legal
holiday in this state, and I earnestly recom-
mend that on that day all labor be sus-
pended and all places of business be closed,
and that the people assemble in their places
of worship and render such tributes of de-
votion and reverence to the will of the
Father, and such marks of respect to the
memory and character of our late devoted
President as they may deem appropriate to
the occasion,
In testimony whereof I have here-
(Seal) unto set my band and caused the
great seal of the state of Utah to
be hereunto affixed.
“Done at Salt Lake City this 16th
day of September, 1901, of the in-
dependence of the United States,
the 126th, and the sixth year of
the state of Utah.
“By the Governor.
HEBER M. WELLS
J. T. HAMMOND,
Secretary of State.”


MEMORIAL SERVICES. 
OFFICIAL NOTICE.

To the Stake Presidencies of the Church of
	Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints:

	Dear Brethren:—Agreeable with the
proclamation of His Excellency, Governor
Heber M. Wells, declaring Thursday, the
19th inst., a legal holiday, and recommend-
ing that all labor be suspended and places
of business closed, and that day be sacredly
observed as a day of humiliation, of fasting,
of mourning and of prayer, I ask that you
hold memorial services in your several
Stake houses, as evidence to the Lord of
our great sorrow for the loss the nation has
sustained in the untimely removal from


earthly life of our Chief Magistrate, Presi-
dent William McKinley, and as a token of
the respect and esteem in which he was
held by us as a community. And I sug-
gest that these services be held in the fore-
noon at eleven o’clock.
				LORENZO SNOW, 
	President of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints.
	Salt Lake City, Utah, Sep. 16, 1901.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
A TERRIBLE TRAGEDY.
THE NATION IN MOURNING.

	The telegram received in this city of the
shocking tragedy that had just occurred
plunged the whole community into deep
sorrow and mourning. In fact the news
seemed to be overwhelming.
	“Buffalo, September 6.—President Mc-
Kinley was shot twice in the stomach here
this afternoon at the Temple of Music.
His condition is serious. Two shots took
effect in the stomach. He is now at the
hospital in the Pan-American grounds. He
was shot by a stranger.
	“The President is fatally wounded. He
was shot in front of the Ethnology building
while on his way to the Temple of Music.
	“The President is fatally hurt. One shot
passed through his left breast and another
entered the abdomen.
	“The President was shot by a well dressed
man with whom he was shaking hands.
As the man approached the President it is
said he had the revolver covered with a
handkerchief and as he reached out his
hand to shake the President’s hand he fired.
Later the bullet, which had lodged against
the breast bone was extracted. The Presi-
dent was resting easy afterwards..”
	The first bulletins issued by the physi-
cians were not of a hopeful nature, yet the
people gradually hoped and prayed and
waited for further particulars, many be-
lieving that from the news received the
wounds would not prove fatal and the
fatality of the dreadful castastrophe might
be averted. That a man so strong and
vigorous as the President might pull
through; day after day the people anx-
ously looked forward to more assuring in-
telligence, and at length it came. Tele-
grams containing assurances from attend-
ing physicians announced that the Presi-
dent was out of danger, and the people
were rejoicing that his precious life had
been saved to serve his country longer,
when the astounding information spread
[-]ike wild fire that there was no hope.
	Mrs. McKinley had borne up bravely
from the first, and was buoyed up later by
the encouraging reports of the physicians.
It was feared that when she learned the
certainty that the end was not far off, she
would break down altogether, but as our
Father tempers the wind to the shorn
lamb, so He in His infinite mercy gave to
the sorrowing wife grace equal to the try-
ing hour.
	There are no words to express the feel-
ing and sympathy of the people during the
terrible struggle for life through which
President McKinley passed after the fatal
occurrence, and the hero of battles showed
in this fiery ordeal the greatest magnimin-
ty of soul; and when at last he bade his
loved ones farewell his words were char-
acteristic of the divinity that made him
great among men. “Good bye all, good
bye, it is God’s way, His will be done.”
	The heart of the nation is bowed in

[Column 2]
grief and in mourning, and prayers from
the many thousands are being offered con-
tinuously to heaven for the immediate
friends, that they may have strength and
courage to pass through the crucial ordeal.
	Just one week from the time of the
tragedy this great, good and wise man fell
asleep, to wake no more until the resur-
rection morn. In the full strength of his
mature manhood, in all the vigor of life,
he was stricken down by a cowardly as-
sassin, an enemy, not to the President
himself, but to the institutions and govern-
ment that he represented. Three times
now has the nation been thus stricken,
God grant this to be the last such foul
murder. The strong and forceful address
made by the President at the Exposition
the day previous to the terrible tragedy,
his farewell words to the American people
were strikingly in keeping with his broad
and liberal views, and should be handed
down to the schools and colleges as repre-
sentive of the noble President who died a
martyr to his country, the land he loved,
the cause of freedom, that lay near his
great and noble heart, that beat loyally for
the people who had elected him to the high-
est post of honor in the gift of a free people.
	Much as the nation deplores the calamity
that has overtaken it, there is no time to
sit and mourn, but be up and doing, to
stamp out iniquity, to put down anarchy
and discountenance all that tends to dis-
loyalty and disunion, and if possible pre-
vent any overt act that strikes at the
government of the nation, or its authorized
representatives elected by the people. The
Constitution should be considered sacred
and all laws made in conformity thereto.
	A good man has gone, a great man has
fallen, the people mourn but they must
also strive to carry out the measures and
policy that will preserve the country, so
famed for true liberty from all invaders
from foes without and foes within.
THE NATION MOURNS.
	The Presidents remains lay in state at
Milburn House until Monday morning,
September 16, when his silent form was
borne away to the national capital in
solemn and impressive state.
	Mrs. McKinley and the other members
of the family had entered their car half an
hour before the body arrived. The jour-
ney down in the carriage from the windows
of which she could see the emblems of
mourning, affected Mrs. McKinley serious-
ly, and when she stepped from the carriage
assisted by Dr. Rixey and Abner McKin-
ley, her limbs failed her and she would
have fallen, but for the support accorded
her. She entered the station and was as-
sisted into the car in which she and the
dead President had made the trip into the
city of his death. On the car her relatives
took charge of her and Dr. Rixey gave her
a tonic. Dr. Rixey thinks she will be able
to go through with the state ceremonial at
Washington, but the change of arrange-
ments so that the body shall leave Wash-
ington Tuesday night, was made so as to
avoid too great a strain. “She will be
better in Canton, than any place else,”
said Dr. Rixey.
	The train that bore the President from
Buffalo was a solid Pullman of seven cars,
drawn by two locomotives. Fifteen minu-
tes before the train was scheduled to leave
an engine sped out through the yards with
orders to precede the train by fifteen minu-

[Column 3]
tes and keep the track clear. The train
was under the general charge of George W.
Boyd, assistant general passenger agent
of the Pennsylvania. Assistant Train-
master D. M. Kinney was in direct charge.
Conductor Johnson, who came here in
President McKinley’s train from Canton,
was the Pullman Conductor. Engineer
Edwards was in charge of one engine and
Frank Bishop of the other. The train
crews was made up of picked men in the
Pennsylvania and Pullman companies.
	Behind the engines were the drawing
room cars Raleigh and Belgrade, both de-
voted to members of the press.
	Next came the dining car Waldorf, the
car Naples, intended for Senators, and the
Hungary, for President Roosevelt and the
cabinet. Next to the rear car was the
Olympia, occupied by Mrs. McKinley, and
last of all was the observation car Pacific,
in which the body rested.
	The casket was placed between the win-
dows on the observation car, where it could
be seen by the people as the train went by.
Crepe was draped from the two locomotives
and from the rear of the observation car
and the railings of the car were shrouded
in crepe. The only relief was in two tiny
pilot flags of white on the leading locomo-
tive. The station was absolutely clear.
	The funeral train bearing the body of the
martyred President started on its journey
to the national capitol at 8:34 September
16. Only the engines and observation car
were shrouded in black. The other cars
were unadorned.
	Behind the drawn blinds were Mrs. Mc-
Kinley, President Roosevelt, the cabinet
and other high dignitaries of the govern-
ment. The casket of the President, com-
pletely covered with a beautiful silk flag,
lay on a raised bier in the observation car.
Two sheaves of wheat were crossed above
the breast. A white dove with out-stretched
wings seemed to be raising from the head
of the casket. It was part of an exquisite
floral piece, in which red and white buds
pictured the American flag and the French
colors, a tribute from a Franco-American
society.
	Standing at the foot of the casket was a
soldier of the United States arms, uniformed
and accoutred with a gun at “order arms.”
At the head a sailor of the navy stood at
“attention,” cutlass at shoulder. The lid
of the casket was closed. Just off from the
apartment in a curtained niche, Lieut.
Ebroule, of the army, and Lieut Hamlin,
of the navy, remained on duty, while Col.
Bingham was in general charge of the car.
The other apartment of the car was for the
moment a barrack, guns stacked in the
sections, cutlasses on the seat, and the re-
serve of soldiers and sailors awaiting their
detail at the bar of the dead chief.
	Two narrow, overhanging viaducts under
which the train passed as it drew slowly
out of the station, bent beneath the
weight of crowded humanity. The win-
dows and roofs of the houses and the roofs
of the cars in the yards, were black with
people all uncovered.
	When the train had cleared the city, the
people were still standing at the cross-
roads and in the fields. It ran literally be-
tweet two lines of people. Farmers from
the surrounding country had driven through
the dark hours of the night to be at the
side of the track, where they could pay
their last tribute of respect. At East
Aurora, the first town through which the


[column 1]
train passed, the inhabitants had been
augmented by thousands from the sur-
rounding country. The country schools
along the way, let out, and the children the
President loved so well in life were there to
see his dead body pass. The train slowed
down at every station to allow the people
lined up on either side to get a better
view of the flag-covered casket. The popu-
lation of the little towns along the way,
like Holland, Arcade, Machiaus Junction,
Franklinville and Hinsdale had tripled and
quadrupled. The towns seemed suddenly
to grow into cities. As the train slowed
up, the mourners behind the curtained
windows of the train could hear the tolling
of the bells.
	Olean was reached at 10:29 o’clock.
There were three thousand people at the
Pennsylvania station as the train came to a
stop.

	The body of President McKinley lay in
state at the White House in the famous
East room, the Guard of Honor who
watched by the dead, members of the Loyal
Legion and the G. A. R., silently chang-
ing every two hours. At the head of the
casket an artillery man and sailor; at the
foot a cavalryman and a marine.
	The following day funeral services were
held at the Capitol Building. The casket
was borne into the Rotunda to the strains of
“Lead Kindly Light,” while every one
stood in reverence. The Invocation was
given by Dr. Henry R. Naylor, of the
Washington M. E. Church, then the choir
sang “Sometime We’ll Understand.”
When the echoes of the hymn died away,
Bishop Edward Andrews, of the M. E.
Church, who had come from Ohio to say 
the last words over his life-long friend and
parishioner, made a most eloquent and
feeling address in a sympathetic voice,
thrilling with emotion. It was a magni-
ficent tribute to the great statesman and
chief magistrate of the nation. The address
occupied fifteen minutes, when everyone in
the vast Rotunda rose and hundreds of
voices joined with the choir in singing,
“Nearer My God to Thee.” In the midst
of the singing Admiral Robley D. Evans
silently advanced and placed a blue floral
cross at the foot of the casket. Dr. W. H.
Chapman, of the Metropolitan Church, pro-
nounced the benediction. The lid of the
casket was removed from the face and the
people were allowed to view the President;
coming in at the east door and going out at
the west. No one was allowed more than
a hurried glance, they passed on both sides
of the casket.
	The President’s remains were afterwards
taken by train to his old home in Canton,
Ohio. The funeral cortege was honored
in every city and town upon the way, it is
estimated that from the time the funeral
train entered Pittsburg until it crossed the
Alleghany line, the crowd was not less
than 250,000 people. Salutes were fired
from Mount Washington and the church
bells tolled. But the climax of the great
demonstration was when the train reached
Canton. The half-masted flags were
bordered heavily with black and a big
white streamer, ten feet wide, lettered in
black, “We Mourn Our Nation’s Dead,”
hung across the main street. The church
bells were tolling. Although the clouds
had been lowering all day, the bright sun-
shine greeted the entry into Canton, the
people literally overflowed the streets. The

[column 2]
President’s body was first taken to the
court house and viewed by the masses of
the people—but afterwards brought to his
own home and deposited in his library.
	It is stated there were tons and tons of
flowers; and the collection was probably
the most beautiful ever seen in the United
States, from the four quarters of the earth
came the directions to adorn the bier of
President McKinley with flowers whose
fragrance might be symbolical of the
sweetness and purity of his life. These
tributes were from the monarchs of Europe,
rulers of South America, Governors of
British Colonies in Australia and Canada,
and the Emperor of Japan, and large num-
bers of flowers in elaborate designs from
organizations, fraternal, commercial and
political. It is said the tributes from for-
eign lands were buried beneath the floral
offerings of his owu countrymen.
	The services in the Church at Canton
vere very simple. Opened with an organ
prelude, Beethoven’s Funeral March, then
a quartette of ladies sang, “The Beautiful
sle of Somewhere.” The Hon. O. B.
Milligan delivered the invocation, the 90th
Psalm was read, and from the 15th chapter
of Corinthians, between the 46th and 58th
verses. The President’s favorite hymn,
“Lead Kindly Light,” was sung by two
male and two female voices, and Dr. C. E.
Manchester, of the M. E. Church, made
the address, which was exceedingly elo-
quent, abounding with poetic senti-
ment, expressive of the loss the peo-
ple of the country had sustained in
the death of one so noble. The speaker
alluded to his last visit to Canton, and his
last words as he left them. A short prayer
was offered by Bishop I. W. Joyce and the
hymn, “Nearer, My God, to Thee,” was
sung by the entire congregation, standing.
Monsiegneur T. P. Thorne pronounced
the benediction and the casket was borne
from the Church to the funeral car, and
the procession marched to the cemetery.

	“The church-yard where his children rest,
	The quiet spot that suits him best,
	There shall his grave be made,
	And there his bones be laid.
	And there his countrymen shall come
	With memory proud, with pity dumb,
	And strangers far and near
	For many and many a year,
	For many a year and many an age,
	While history on her ample page
	The virtues shall enroll
	Of that paternal soul.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


TABERNACLE MEMORIAL SERVICES.
	Memorial services were held in the large
Tabernacle, in this city, on Thursday,
September 19, in honor of President Wm.
McKinley, commencing at eleven a. m. In
front of the organ was a large picture of
the deceased, bordered with black and
white crepe, with the stars and stripes for
a background and underneath a bank of
potted plants and palms, American flags
on either side of the stand. President
Angus M. Cannon presided. The exer-
cises opened with the choir singing the
hymn, “Farewell, all earthly honors.”
Prayer was offered by Dr. James E. Tal-
mage and the choir sang, “Thou dost not
weep to weep alone.” Chopin’s Funeral
March was played during the exercises, the
strains of music from the great organ thrill-
ing the audience with a solemn tenderness.
	Bishop O. F. Whitney delivered the
Memorial Address opening with a beauti-


ful poetical sentiment, and eloquently por-
traying the life and character of the noble
hero, who had been made the victim of the
cowardly assassin. He alluded to the
tragic death of President Garfield twenty
years ago, and the nobility and patriotic
heroism of the three martyred Presidents.
It was a discourse full of sublime feeling,
and in a voice and manner befitting the
solemn occasion.
	For the closing hymn the choir sang
“Nearer, My God, to Thee.” and Apostle
A. H. Lund pronounced the benediction.


OBITUARY.
	We are called upon to report the death of our
beloved sister, Annie Peterson, who was suddenly
taken from us by coming in contact with a street
car, through which her poor body was dreadfully
mangled. We much deplore the sad accident to
so good and faithful a sister in the 13th ward Re-
lief Society, one who was ever willing to make
herself useful, also being a regular attendant at
other meetings in the ward.
	Sister Peterson was born in Lofta Socken, Cal-
mer, Sweden, September 21, 1849. Came to Utah
July 29, 1880, was married to Eric John Peterson
and left a widow about ten years ago, having two
daughters who still survive her, and when quite
girls always attended the 13th ward Sunday
chool.
	This dear sister has now gone to rest with the
faithful. The funeral was held in the 13th ward
Assembly Hall, on Sunday, August 18, 1901, her
death occuring on August 16. The service was
well attended and many tokens of love and re-
spect were paid to the departed.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, it has pleased our heavenly Father to
remove our dear sister to a brighter sphere, there-
fore be it
	Resolved, That we mourn the loss of a faithful
sister in the cause of truth, and desire to emulate
her earnest labors.
	Resolved, That we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved family, praying that the Holy Spirit may
rest upon them, that they may realize that she has
gone to rest with the faithful, and will come forth
to a glorious immortality and eternal life.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the bereaved family, also one to the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
		ELIZABETH H. GODDARD, Sec. pro tem.


ALPINE STAKE.

	Second quarterly conference of the
Relief Society of the Alpine Stake of Zion,
held at Pleasant Grove, July 26, 1901.
	Meeting commenced at ten a. m., local
President Sarah Foutz presiding. President
Jane S. Richards, of the General Board,
Sisters Emily S. Richards and Rebecca
Standring were all on the stand, also
Stephen L. Chipman and A. J. Evans, of 
the Stake presidency, and most of the local
officers.
	Meeting opened by singing "O ye
mountains high." Prayer by President S.
L. Chipman. Singing, "Do what is
right."
	President Chipman was pleased to meet
with the sisters and recommended them to
be united in the choice of a president for
the Relief Society of this Stake. Felt that
much good would be done today and God 
would be glorified.
	President Jane S. Richards spoke of the
good feeling in the singing. Said we
should appreciate our homes and our sur-
roundings, the Lord has made them all for
us. Thought the sisters were united and
would work together. We want to feel as
though we are all God's children, and we
should be kind to all. These societies
crowd out all ill feeling, for we cannot be 
members in this Church and not enjoy the


[Column 1]
Spirit of the Lord. It is a great responsi-
bility to take a position, and it is necessary
that we should support the officers selected.
	Sister Rebecca Standring rejoiced in a
knowledge of the work. Spoke of her
early experience, and being raised up from
a bed of affliction through the power of
God by revelation. The Lord had been
with her ever since and kept her in the
path of duty. The work will roll on, and
let us be faithful and seek the Lord by day
and by night and thus keep in the straight
and narrow way. Prayed that this confer-
ence might be one we shall never forget.
	Sister Emily S. Richards could testify
that she was proud to have been brought
up in the work of the Relief Society.
Would not part with her experience in the
society of Sister E. R. Snow and Sister
Zina D. H. Young and others of the elder
sisters. We grow in the work and we
grow to be helpmeets to our husbands and
if we do our duty the housework will not
be much, we make ourselves slaves to our
work. But we should strive to get intel-
ligence and the teachings of our sisters will
make us wise if we give heed to them.
Spoke of feeding the tramps and had never
been the poorer for it.
	President A. J. Evans had felt a very
peaceful influence since coming to meeting.
“We do not understand the good we do in
feeding tramps, and perhaps casting bread
upon the waters. Our missionaries have
often found that their protectors from mob
violence were tramps. This is God’s work
and our sons and daughters will carry it to
the ends of the earth. The mothers are
the last to give up their wayward sons, but
always hoped there would be a turn and the
wayward will become repentant and be
found in the path of duty finally.”
	Sisters Harriet Jacobs, Ellen D. Clarke
and Sister Anderson each made a few re-
marks, confirming what had been said by
the former speakers and bearing testimony
to the truth of the work.
	Singing, “Where the voice of friend-
ship’s heard.” Benediction by President
A. J. Evans.
	Afternoon session convened at two p.
m., Counselor Annie C. Hindley presiding.
	Opened by singing, O, say what is
truth.” Prayer by Bishop Thorne. Singing,
“Come, listen to a prophet’s voice.”
	President Jane S. Richards was pleased
to see so good an attendance. Was sure
the sisters enjoyed their religion who
would come out in such hot weather.
Thought it was as necessary for one as
another to attend meeting, and the young
women should come and learn their duties,
for as long as there is a Bishop there will
be a Relief Society. Hoped the sisters
would sustain the president who would be
appointed today, and presented the name of
Sister Rebecca Standring.
	It was moved by Sister Harriet Jacobs
that Sister Rebecca Standring be sustained
as president of the Alpine Stake Relief
Society. Seconded by Sister Ellen D.
Clarke and carried unanimously.
	The counselors selected were Sisters

[Column 2]
Annie C. Hindley and Harriet Jacobs, also
Emma Featherstone, secretary.
	Sister Richards urged the sisters to be
one and pull together, and they would be
able to accomplish much good, also re-
minded them of the Woman’s Building and
advised them to economize and save the
means to help erect it.
	Sister Standring felt the weight of the
confidence placed in her by the sisters.
Wished to lift them up and unite them, all
the good that has been done has been
through love and unity. Hoped that every
branch of the society would have as much
confidence in her as Lehi has. Asked the
sisters for their faith, their works and their
confidence, by this means the work of God
will be accomplished.
	Sister Hindley desired to do her duty in
accepting the position as counselor to the
president of Alpine Stake Relief Society.
Said “If we minister comfort to our sisters
it will be through the Spirit of God. The
credit is due to our Heavenly Father for all
the good we can do.” Had visited all the
branches in the Stake and found them in
good order, and all doing the best they can.
	Sister Jacobs thought that what had been
done this afternoon was the right thing.
Felt well in the work and determined to do
her duty. The Lord hears our prayers and
though we may make sacrifices it will be
all right when we get through.
	President S. L. Chipman always felt
humble in standing before the people.
Spoke of his missionary experience and al-
ways felt to depend on the Lord. There is
only one thing that can satisfy the people
and that is the Spirit of God. It is the
same spirit that protects the young man on
his mission. Exhorted the counselors to
sustain the president, and do and perform
the work that she lays out.
	President A. J. Evans arose to bless the
sisters, said President “Standring was a
prophetess, he had heard her prophecies
and had seen them fulfilled. Said “God
bless the sisters who have been chosen to-
day, and God bless those who have come
to bless and instruct us.”
	Bishop Thorne made a few remarks.
Said it was a responsible position to be a
mother, but when you do your duty how
great your blessings are.
	Singing, “An angel from on high.”
Benediction by Patriarch Hensen Walker
		EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
much as possible for you money. TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
And when you get a dollar, deposit it
with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
Company, the oldest and largest savings
bank n Utah.
	Since the establishment of the bank
we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
ings accounts.
	The laws of Utah permit married
women and also children who are minors
to open savings accounts in their own
name, subject to their own order. Have
you such an account? If not, open
one NOW
	We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
TEREST on any amount from one dol-
lar to thousands, and compute said
interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the.....
Oregon Short Line
Railroad
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden...,..

Se that your tickets read via the
“SHORT LINE”
And Get the bes

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. Eccles, D. E. Burley,
Gen Tfc. Mgr. G. P. & T. A


SLEEP FOR THE BRAINWORKERS.—As
life becomes concentrated, and its pursuits
more eager, short sleep and early rising
become impossible. We take more sleep
than our ancestors, and we take more be-
cause we need more. Six hours’ sleep
will do very well for a ploughman or a
bricklayer, and any other man who has no
exhaustion but that produced by manual
labor, and the sooner he takes it after his
labor is over the better. But for a man
whose labor is mental the stress of work is
on his brain and nervous system, and for
him who is tired in the evening, after a


day of mental application, neither early to
bed nor early to rise is wholesome. He
needs letting down to the level of repose.
The longer the interval between the active
use of the brain and his retirement to bed
the better his chance of sleep and refresh-
ment. To him an hour after midnight is
probably as good as two hours before it, and
then his sleep will not so completely and
quickly restore him as it will his neighbor
who is physically tired. He must not
only go to bed later, but lie longer. His
 best sleep probably lies in the early morn-
ing hours, when all the nervous excite-
ment has passed away and he is in abso-
lute rest.


Kanab Relief Society 
Woman's Exponent. 
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation 
