Vol. 30 		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1901. 		No. 6


CONTENTS. 
President Lorenzo Snow’s Last Sermon...........	41
A Good Woman Gone...................Jane R. Cox	42
Testimonial ..............................Alice Solomon	43
Obituaries..........................................................	47
A Biography........................Jane Price Roberts	47
Walks Around Canterbury........Lydia D. Alder	48
EDITORIAL—Official Announcements..........	44
	In Memoriam............................................	44
	D. R. Columbus Day.................................	46
	A Delightful Reception.............................	46
	A Very Pretty Kensington.........................	47
	A Pleasant Gathering................................	47
POETRY—Aunt Zina’s Jewels...Ellis R. Shipp	41
	In Memory of President Snow..................
	.............................Emily H. Woodmansee	41
	An Evening Prayer............A. E. Wayland	43


AUNT ZINA’S JEWELS.

Sisters, we have lost our Mother,
	Honored president and friend!
She who bade us love each other, 
	And the rights of Truth defend.
She who ne’er was known to falter,
	In the days of sore distress,
Placing all upon the altar,
	In the cause of Righteousness.
Let us follow her example,
	Place her jewels in each breast,
Chastity, with impulse noble,
	Valor, to endure each test,
Truth and trustfulness in Father,
	Hope, Humility and Love,
Bound in one bright chain together,
	Linking hearts with God above.
					ELLIS R. SHIPP.


IN MEMORY OF OUR LATE PRESIDENT,
		LORENZO SNOW.

Another President has passed from earth, 
	And left a host of loving friends behind;
“A man of God” who prized Truth’s wondrous
		worth.
	And sensed its import unto human kind.

Like Apostolic men of olden times,
	Preachers of Righteousness unpraised, unpaid,
He scattered light afar in many climes
	And many converts, by God’s help he made,

In danger oft, upon the land and sea;
	A noble captive, doom’d for conscience sake,
Caged was his body, but his soul was free,
	Such sterling Saints a heaven of hell can make

Refined and sensitive and true as steel,
	The sacred law of heaven was his delight;
Nothing could shake his faith, or quench his zeal
	Nothing could force him to renounce the right.

From bondage freed, by God’s o’erruling hand.
	Snatched from the furnace, tried as purest gold,
He filled the greatest role in all the land
	Wise guardian of “The Master’s” flock and
		fold.

Shall Zion’s children Saints of latter-days,
	Who knew his purity of heart and mind
Shall Zion’s bards neglect to sound his praise,
	Whose peer, whose equal, we shall rarely find?

Full of good works, of ripe old age he died;
	Not in a murderer’s malice stricken down,
Yet by uncounted ordeals, sanctified.
	Lorenzo Snow has earned a martyr’s crown.
					EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.


[Column 1]
	PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW’S
			LAST SERMON.
 
	[Delivered at the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City,
Sunday afternoon, October 6, 1901.]

	Addressing the vast congregation of
brethren and sisters, President Snow’s
remarks in substance as published in the

[Column 2]
Deseret Evening News on Monday, October
7, were as follows:
	I marvel that I have ventured out today;
but I have something to say to you, and I
trust that I may have sufficient strength of
voice, and time enough to say it. And I
hope you will give me your faith and
prayers that I may address you.
	I am delighted to hear that there has been
such a good spirit in the Conference—a
spirit that has enabled the brethren to
speak of the glorious progress the Saints
have made. The Saints have not been idle
during the past six months. They have done
their duty to a great extent. They have
exercised their faith in behalf of the
brethren during this conference more than
at the other conferences. They are
improving in this respect. And if they
continue to improve in this, the brethren at
the next conference will have still more of
the Spirit by which to speak to them.
	During the past day or two I have had a
distressing cold, rendering me hoarse and
I feared that I should be unable to be here
at all. But through the blessings of the
Lord and your faith and prayers I am here.
	I want to say something to you about a
subject that deeply concerns the Priest-
hood—you Presidents of Stakes, you
Bishops of wards, you Elders, High Priests
and High Councilors. I wish you to
remember what I say. It is of interest to
all the officers in the Church. There are
fifty Stakes in Zion, presided over by a
president and counselors. In each of
these Stakes there is an average of at least
eight wards, each having a Bishop at its
head. Now, this means a tremendous
responsibility. These details of all these
organizations depend on the fifty presi-
dents. There is something, therefore, for
each of them to do. There is a great deal
for them to accomplish. This responsibili-
ty is sacred and extensive. Though these
presidents have been faithful, they have
not been as faithful as they could be—as
they ought to be. They have not sensed
their responsibilities as they should do.
	The Church is now seventy-two years
old, and during this period we have im-
proved. This is right. We ought to be
doing greater things than we did in our
youth. The Lord is coming one of these
days. He is interested in what you officers
are doing. You presidents of Stakes should
attend to the affairs in your districts. Look
after the interests of the people whom you
oversee as you would look after the inter-
ests of your own family—your own wives
and children. You should think of
them day and night. When you go to rest
you should devote half an hour before you 
sleep in thinking of their welfare. Try to
find out where you can help them. See
wherein you can advise them in their
spiritual and material affairs. Ascertain
whether they are spending too much or
too little, and whether they can spend their
money to better advantage. Then, too,
the Bishops have to be looked after.
Bishops, however wise—and many of them
are wise—have to be cared for. This is

[Column 3]
the duty, not of the Apostles, but of the
presidents of Stakes. It is the duty of the
High Priests, Elders. Teachers and Dea-
cons to look after the interests of the
Church in Zion. Do not lay this duty on
the Apostles. They have too much
already. They ought to look to these
things of which I have been speaking
occasionally at least.
	Now, the Lord has ordained a certain
channel through which He is going to
exalt His children, overcome wickedness
and uplift righteousness. This channel is
the Holy Priesthood—His authority to
men. And the Priesthood has various
officers the duties of whom He has clearly
shown. The special duty of the Seventies
and the Apostles is to look after the world.
The duty of the High Priests and Elders
is to look after our home interests—to build
up the waste places of Zion. The time is
coming when you cannot have the Twelve
to depend upon—when you will have to do
these things yourselves. They will have
other duties to perform. I want you to
remember this. 
	It is a tremendous responsibility this
matter of the Priesthood. You presidents
of Stakes, know how the Lord is obeyed in
your district of country. Know whether
the people keep the Sabbath day, whether
they profane the name of Deity, whether
they pay their tithes, use tobacco, build
meeting houses and school houses—know
everything they do. God will help you in
this; for it is what he requires of you. But
when you are depending on the Apostles
to do these things you are doing what you
have no business to do. Let the High
Council visit the wards with you, that they
also may know what is the condition of
the people. Be lively in performing these
duties.
	God bless you all, brethren and sisters.
I am glad to see such a vast multitude of
people. I am delighted, as I said in the
beginning, at the good spirit that has been,
poured out upon you. I thank you for
exercising your faith and prayers in my
behalf. When I got up here I did not
think I conld say half a dozen words. But
have been enabled to say what I had on
my mind. Of course a great deal more,
might be said. It might be expanded and
made much more of.
	There is another subject that I wish to
speak of. I am getting along in years now,
being nearly eighty-eight years old. I
have had only one counselor since Presi-
dent Cannon died. I have chosen another
counselor. I have sought the guidance of
the Lord in the matter, and the Lord has
directed the choice. I have chosen a
strong, energetic man, and I think he will
be a great help to myself and President
Smith; I hope, therefore, you will sustain
him. God bless you all.


Mrs. Lillian M. Stevens has just been
elected president for the twenty-fifth time
of the Maine Woman’s Christian Temper-
ance Union.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the 14th Ward hall, August 31,
1901, with President M. I. Horne presid-
ing. Singing, “O, my Father.” Prayer
by Counselor Elizabeth Webb. Singing,
“When first the glorious light of truth.”
Minutes of former meeting read and
accepted.
	President Horne said though our Presi-
dent, Zina D. H. Young’s, body was
waiting to be buried, she felt there was no
need to mourn for her, her life was well
spent, she was a true Mother in Israel, she
had spent her life time in this work, and
her life was almost perfect. She never
spoke of people’s faults, she never wished
to hear anyone find fault with another,
especially the authorities of the Church.
There is too much of it in Zion. We have
a great many trials but the Lord has
ordained it, and He will always bring com-
fort to us. When we are possessed of evil
spirits let us rid ourselves of them.
	Counselor Elizabeth J. Stevenson said
when she came into the room she thought,
“O, ye faithful ones!” There are always
a few faithful. She had recently visited
Bear Lake Stake, she enjoyed meeting with
the sisters. She had been acquainted with
our Mother, Aunt Zina, about forty-five
years. She honored and revered her be-
cause of her faithfulness and integrity to
the truth. She would never say an un-
kind word of any one, but helped all to
gain a blessing. We must abide by the.
golden rule, “Do to others as we wish to
be done by,” not be jealous, but be pre-
pared to stand in holy places.
	Sister Barnes spoke of blessings bestowed
upon her by Aunt Zina, felt she had been
one of God’s noble women.
	Sister Mary L. Morris said that Aunt
Zina, twenty-five years ago, in this hall,
said there were two things she always
wanted to get away from, “a house on fire
and a person speaking evil of another.”
	The congregation sang “This God is the
God we adore.”
	A sister bore her testimony to the truth
of the Gospel.
	Sister R. R. Grant felt happy to meet
with her sisters, thankful she could be
numbered with the Saints. She had
received a letter from her son, H. J. Grant,
that he was on ship board, was well and
blessed of the Lord. Felt we should al-
ways be happy that we can have the privi-
lege of preparing for the life to come.
	Sister Margaret Gardner said she felt the
words of Sister Zina D. H. Young would
perhaps have more weight with us now she
is gone.
	Sister Barnes spoke of the grand recep-
tion there was in heaven when such faith,
ful ones as Sister Zina entered.
	Sister Nebeker felt thankful she was
born in this dispensation and she was will-
ing to listen to the teachings of the Gospel.
Said she had spent many pleasant hours
with Aunt Zina and her sister, Presendia
Kimball.
	Elizabeth Buzzo spoke of her love for
Sister Zina D. H. Young and her familiar
association with her.
	Sister Shoenfeld spoke of the blessings
that had been bestowed upon her by Sis-
ter Zina and her sister and all she promised
had been fulfilled.
	Sister Smart said she felt that our loss
was Sister Zina’s gain, remember her last
words, “Let us make the best of it.” 

[Column 2]
	Sister Lydia D. Alder felt we should feel
it is a privilege to speak in these meetings.
Speaking of Sister Zina she said: “Who
has she not administered to? Who has
she not blessed? ‘He is with us all the
way,’ Aunt Zina said, ‘there is no dark
shadow to pass through, make the best of
it.’ Said she had not the fear of death that
she once had, we do not come alone, neither
do we go alone.” Alluded to the blessing
Sister Zina had given her before she went
on her mission abroad.
	Sister Mary P. Silver could not tell of
the blessings she had received from Sister
Zina, her life had been a blessing to us.
	Sister Stevenson spoke of the blessing
President Lyman had given Aunt Zina be-
fore going to Canada, and how his words
had been fulfilled.
	Sister Arnold related a dream and bore
her testimony.
	Sister Paul bore her testimony, and
Sister Irvine spoke of the comfort and
blessing Sister Zina had been to her.
	Sister Mair wondered what would life be
without the Gospel, she could not imagine.
	President Horne said it was profitable to
her to meet with her sisters here.
	Meeting adjourned. Singing, “Weep,
weep not for me, Zion.” Benediction by
Maria W. Wilcox.
			J. S. WOOLLEY, Sec.


[Column 1]
A GOOD WOMAN GONE.
	We have been called upon to chronicle
the death of our dear departed sister,
Sarah Ann Stevenson Fullmer, who died
at her home September 7, after an illness
of six weeks.
	She was the mother of twelve children,
seven sons and five daughters, all of
whom are living, seventy nine grandchil-
dren, sixty-eight of whom are living and
five great grandchildren.
	She had the satisfaction of having all
her children with her during her last ill-
ness. All that loving hands could do was
done to keep her with us, but the Lord or-
dained otherwise, and through his mercy
she passed away calm as a summer morn-
ing, none realizing that death was so near.
BIOGRAPHICAL.
	She was born in England, July 31, 1835,
and was baptized into the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1848. Her
father’s home was always a stopping place
for the Elders. Young as she was she
took great pleasure in distributing tracts
and helping them sing the songs of Zion,
as she was a beautiful singer.
	In the year 1853 she emigrated to
America with her parents, remaining in
Philadelphia where she worked with her
father at the tailor trade until 1855, when
she came to Salt Lake City with a com-
pany of Saints. On October 12, of the
same year, she married John S. Fullmer
and moved to Spanish Fork in 1857 re-
maining there until 1861, when she again
moved and made her home in Springville,
and there the greater portion of her family
were born. Those who have undergone
the hardships of those early days in Utah
can in a measure know what they were to
her.
	Her husband losing his all in the driv-
ings of Nauvoo, pioneering into Salt Lake
and neighboring towns and devoting his
time and talent for missionary work and
large families on his hands, it necessitated

[Column 2]
all to do what they could to make the bur-
den lighter, and this she bravely did, as
all who know her can attest. Being an
expert seamstress and her father a pro-
fessional tailor, she helped him in his shop
year after year, working in the late hours
of the night to prepare her home and little
ones to again leave on the morrow.
	In 1881 her husband come into Castle
Valley, with the desire, as this country
was new, of getting her comfortably
located with land for her boys, who had by
that time grown to be a great help. Short-
ly after they had moved into their new
home the husband and father died, leav-
ing her to be father and mother to that
large family of children which she has
creditably accomplished.
	Her farm being five miles from town
she has often walked that distance to
attend her meetings. She was a zealous
worker for many years, being chosen
teacher of the Theological department
when the Sunday School was first organ
ized in this place. When the Relief Soci-
ety was organized she was chosen first
counselor to the president, she frequently
traveled with the Stake officers through
the Stake, and later in the absence of
President Annie U. Larson at the Temple
at Manti was chosen as aid, she became
thoroughly known and loved by the sisters
through the Stake.
	Nature had endowed her with the attri-
butes of a nurse and for many years she
was seen at the bedside of the suffering
and in times of sickness she knew no fear.
	After her children were sufficiently
grown that she could spare the time she
began to write, bringing forth that latent
talent for her own development and the
benefit of her sister woman. She fre-
quently wrote for the Exponent, her
articles being strong and forceful.
	We can truly say of her she was a self-
made woman. When the Suffrage Asso-
ciation was organized through the territory
she was chosen president of Emery Co
She was sent twice as a delegate to the
conventions held at Salt Lake city to
represent this county.
	After statehood the ladies of this place
deciding the Suffrage Association no
longer necessary organized a club for edu-
cational purposes, naming it the Union
Club. She succeeded Mrs. Lizzie Reid as
president and was sent as a delegate to the
Federation of Clubs held in Salt Lake
City. Politically she has ever been thor-
oughly Democratic and has been chosen a
delegate by her party many times to the
County Conventions where she has ever
stood up for justice and correct principles.
	She was elected school trustee of this
place and was re-elected July, 1900, without
an opponent. Many of the little children
will miss her presence in the school room.
In all her walks in life Sister Fullmer has
been thorough, her motto being “what
was worth doing at all, was worth doing
well.” One of her greatest characteristics.
was punctuality, nothing annoyed her
more than being late.
	We feel she has now gone on to higher
attainments and greater opportunities, for
we know there is no standing still to an
ambition such as hers, and although we
will ever miss her we can of a truth pro-
claim “She hath done what she could.”
				JANE R. COX,
				JOSIE E. CHILDS,
						Committee.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.										43


AN EVENING PRAYER.

		BY ADELAIDE SCHMIDT WAYLAND.

I pray Thee, Father, now the day is done.
That Thou, who knowest my course since morn
	begun,
Wilt grant me mercy for my wrongful deeds,
That, even thoughtless though they were, were
	seeds
That now have taken root in human soil,
And can be cast out but by days of toil.

If there is aught that I have done for Thee,
I ask Thee, Father, to accept from me
What'er it be, and with it shall be sent
My heartfelt joy at its accomplishment.
My life, dear Father, consecrate anew.
Make me a Christian, constant, worthy, true.

Let not my heart on earthly things be bent,
Then, if Thy will denies them, I shall be content,
Let me remember that all mortals here
Are like myself in Thine own image dear;
Then in my dealings with them, Thou shalt see,
I'll do as I would have them do by me.

And, for the whole wide world, dear Lord, I pray
The prayers I make for self, day after day,
And, if the world and I will help Thee, Lord,
To answer all I ask—O, Son of God !
Thou soon shalt find the Earth o'erflowed, indeed,
With souls well fitted for the Heavenly Mead.


TESTIMONIAL.

	Inasmuch as Sister Mary Jeremy is in
her seventy-fourth year and in delicate
health, not feeling able to continue her
duties as First Counselor in the Twenty-
Second Ward Relief Society, she has
tendered her resignation; and
	Whereas, we, the members of the Relief
Society, give her our heartfelt thanks for
her kind, wise and efficient performance of
her duties while acting for twelve years in
that capacity, 
	Resolved, that we present this Testimonial
of thanks to our sister. 
	Resolved that we place this Testimonial
on the records of the Twenty-Second Ward
Relief Society.
	Resolved, that we send a copy to the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
				RACHEL WHIPPLE,
						    President.
				MARIA L. NEBEKER,
							Counselor.
				ALICE SOLOMON,
							Secretary.


MRS. ALDER’S LETTER FROM ENGLAND.
	[Extracts of a letter from President George Q.
Morris of the London Conference, Aug. 15, 1901.]
Sister Lydia D. Alder:
	I was much pleased at receiving your
letter of July 25, which reached me a week
or so ago. Many thanks for the tickets
and suggestions concerning the tourists
sleepers. I wish you might have received
the same before your journey. Hope by
this time you are entirely free from your
troublesome cough. I presume being at
home soon set you right since you were
there in a favorable climate, though warm,
and had some home comforts, I think you en-
dured serious inconvenience during the two
years of your work here, and nothing but
your zeal in the work would make the con-
ditions endurable, or the bearing of them
anything but a hardship.
	However, you bore them faithfully and
uncomplainingly, and did an excellent
work withal, a better work than many a
younger and stronger missionary. I want
to acknowledge to you my appreciation of
your labors in this Conference and express
my praise for their excellence and extent.

[Column 2]
	I think as you look back on the two
years you spent here you must gain much
joy. I think, too, you have and will real-
ize many blessings. Since coming in
touch with the work of the sister mission-
aries, I have always been an advocate lor
them. In most ways they stand equal to
the brethren; in many ways they are able
to do more than the brethren ordinarily are
able to do.
	We now have, as you may know, four
sisters laboring with us Sister Penfold
was sent to me to take Sister Holbrook’s
place with Sister Sargeant, and about a
month ago, when Sisters Woodward, of
Idaho, and Clark, of Salt Lake, were sent
over, President Lyman sent them both
down here, so that for the present four are
laboring in London. They are very active
in tracting and street work.
	The results of our half summer’s outdoor
work are being manifest now in the amount
of opposition that we are receiving on all
sides. On the streets a combination of
local preachers and church workers from
various denominations have banded to-
gether, for once to hold regular meetings
for the purpose of exposing “Mormonism.”
They come into the places we regularly
visit, and go over the old stories, so often
repeated under similar conditions. The
opposition we have always been receiving
in the Finsbury park burst into a storm
about a month ago, and after being thor-
oughly excited by one of our opponents at
the meeting, the mob broke up our gather-
ing and drove our brethren and sisters out
of the park, amid jeering and hooting.
Some threats were made, but no violence
was attempted.
	The next Sunday we went back as usual
and under the protection of an extra force
of police and detectives, held an excellent
meeting. We have been doing so every
Sunday morning since, and have had good
crowds that listened attentively. Last Sun-
day during the latter part of our meeting,
I think there were three hundred people
listening with the greatest attention. We
owe much of the interest taken in us to the
activity of our enemies.
	The afternoon following the morning
upon which we were driven from the park,
we baptized seven persons in London. Dur-
ing last month fifteen baptisms were re-
corded. seven of them were in Southhamp-
ton.
	Brother Dougall is now in charge in
Stratford. He will do a good work among
the Saints there.
	Last Sunday Brother Simmonds, whose
daughter you may remember at the
Stratford meeting, was baptized into the
Church at Stratford.
	You have no doubt seen the Stratford
Saints who went out to Salt Lake, as well
as Brother Sherwood and others, who came
from laboring there and among us.
	We are preparing for our conference,
which is to be held on October 6. Presi-
dent Lyman we hope will be with us. We
shall try and surpass the one held last
spring. Up to date we have had about
twenty-three baptisms since last conference,
and are hoping for enough more to make a
very favorable report by conference time, a
little more than two months hence.
	We now have but twenty-three mission-
aries in the field. When I came about a
year ago and went into the priesthood
meeting, I think I found about thirty-five.
We are beginning to feel a bit lonesome.

[Column 3]
All here are well and join in kindest
regards to yourself and daughter, May.
Remember me kindly to all old friends and
associates in the work.
	With kindest regards, I remain,
		Faithfully your brother,
			GEORGE Q. MORRIS


NOTES AND NEWS.
	Seventy-seven tribes are represented
among the 1007 pupils in the Indian train-
ing school at Carlisle.
	Roosevelt is the first President of the
United States since Abraham Lincoln who
has expressed himself publicly in favor
of woman suffrage before attaining the
presidency.
	President W. F. Slocum, of Colorado
College, announces an anonymous gift of
$100,000 for the erection of the Science
Building. Dr. D. K. Pearsons, the
Chicago philanthropist, is believed to be
the giver. He gave $50,000 to the college
in 1894, and last January an additional
$50,000 toward the Science Building. The
building will be larger than at first planned
and will cost $3,000,000.
	Mrs. Roosevelt has rented what is
know as “The President’s Pew,” at St.
John’s Episcopal Church in Washington,
for herself and such of her children and
visitors as may care to worship there. She
was reared in that communion, while her
husband belongs to the Dutch Reformed
Church, and generally attends it. The
difference of religion has never disturbed
their perfect domestic harmony. President
Roosevelt, who is an avowed believer in
woman suffrage, is entirely willing that
his wife should call her soul her own, and
go to whatever church she pleases.
	A dispatch from Christiana, dated
October 9, says: “The privilege recently
granted women to vote for, and sit in
municipal councils in Norway is adding
unusual interest to the approaching
elections. The women’s battle-cry is
‘away with politicians; only men and
women who further social reform to the
front[-]’ Conservatives and Liberals are
trying to induce the women to vote for
their candidates, but even in the smallest
towns the women insist upon their right to
pick the best men of both parties and to
support the women candidates. The men 
are greatly disturbed and do not know
how to vote.”
	Liliuokalani, formerly queen of Hawaii,
recently celebrated her sixty-second birth-
day by giving several entertainments at
which hundreds of natives and a few
whites were present. Three hundred
guests breakfasted with the deposed queen
and then came a general reception. In
 the afternoon there was a great luau, or
feast at which Federal Judge Estee was
present, and escorted the hostess to a large
tent, under which the luau was given. He
was seated on a mat at her right hand.
The food was served on mats on the
ground, and the staple articles were poi
and raw fish. It was reported that the
ex-queen would invite a number of her old
political enemies to celebrate the burying
of the hatchet, but only her personal
friends and partisans were present at the
feast.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

Woman’s Exponent.

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts.  No reduction made for clubs.  City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	dvertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparie
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal di-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
						Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
							SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, a
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER, 1901.


OFFICIAL ANNOUNCEMENT.
To the Officers and Members of the Church
	of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints:

	This certifies that at the regular meeting
of the Council of the Apostles, held in the
Salt Lake Temple, this 17th day of 
October, 1901, at which the following 
Apostles were present: Joseph F. Smith,
Brigham Young, John Henry Smith,
George Teasdale, John W. Taylor, Marrin-
er W. Merrill, Anthon H. Lund, Matthias
F. Cowley, Abraham O. Woodruff, Rudger
Clawson and Reed Smoot, also Patriarch
John Smith. The following business was
unanimously transacted:
	Joseph F. Smith was chosen and set
apart as President of the Church of Jesus 
Christ of Latter-day Saints. And John R.
Winder was sustained and set apart as
First and Anthon H. Lund was sustained
and set apart as Second Counselor in the
First Presidency of the Church.
	President Joseph F. Smith was then
sustained as Trustee-in-Trust for the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
	President Joseph F. Smith was also 
sustained as President of the Salt Lake
Temple, with John R. Winder as his
assistant. 
	Elder Brigham Young was sustained and
set apart as President of the Quorum of the
Twelve Apostles.
	And it was decided to hold a special
general conference of the Church for the 
purpose of voting upon these several ac-
tions, said conference to be held in Salt
Lake City, on Sunday, the 10th of Novem-
ber next. 
		GEORGE F. GIBBS, Secretary.

To the Officers and Members of the Church
	of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints:

	Dear Brethren and Sisters—Agreeable
with the decision of the Council of Apostles
at their regular meeting today, as set forth
in the above official announcement, we
hereby call a general conference of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints 
to be held in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake
City, on Sunday, the 10th of November,
next, at 10 o’clock a m., for the purpose
of voting upon the above proceedings.
				JOSEPH F. SMITH,
				JOHN R. WINDER,
				ANTHON H. LUND.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.
PRESIDENT LORENZO SNOW.

“It will only be a sleep
When with songs and dewy light
Morning blossoms out of night
He will open his bright eyes
’Neath the palms of Paradise
Yet we foolish ones must weep.”

	President Lorenzo Snow, prophet, seer
and revelator of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, passed from this life
into the great beyond on Thursday,
October 10, 1901, 3:45 p. m., at the Bee
Hive House in this city, surrounded by a
large number of his family, his two
counselors, Joseph F. Smith and Rudger
Clawson, and a number of the Quorum of
the Twelve Apostles. He had only been
seriously ill a short time, in fact he pre-
sided at a meeting on Wednesday morning
the day before his decease, although he
had been suffering from a severe cold and
cough for several days previous. His
death so unexpected was a severe shock to
all those who heard the sad tidings, and it
seemed almost impossible to believe it had
actually taken place.
	On the Sabbath day, October 6, Presi-
dent Snow preached to the assembled
multitude and his voice rang out as strong
and clear as in his palmiest days; his form
was erect and his eyes shone as bright as
ever, aud those who saw and heard him
could scarcely credit that in so short a time
he would pass from their sight into the
great beyond, but so it is, and none know
the day nor the hour.

		“Beyond life’s toils and cares,
Its hopes and joys, its weariness and sorrow,
Its sleepless nights, its days of smiles and tears,
Will be a long sweet life, unmarked by years,
		One bright, unending morrow!

		Beyond time’s troubled stream,
Beyond the chilling waves of death’s dark river.
Beyond life’s lowering clouds and fitful gleams,
Its dark realities and brighter dreams—
		A beautiful forever!

		No aching hearts are there,
No tear-dimmed eyes, no form by sickness wasted,
No cheek grown pale through penury or care,
No spirits crushed beneath the woes they bear,
		No sighs for bliss untasted.

		Ear hath not heard the song
Of rapturous praise within that shining portal;
No heart of man hath dreamed what joys belong
To that redeemed and happy blood-washed throng,
		All glorious and immortal.”

	It does seem wrong to mourn for one
who has lived so long and to such noble
purpose, who has gone to join those whom
he loved here on earth, wives, children,
parents, brothers and sisters. And yet it
is natural because they who go are missed
in their accustomed places, and those
whom they held dear are lonely.

		“Death hath made no breach
In love and sympathy, in hope and trust,
No outward sign or sound our ears can reach:
But there’s an inward spiritual speech
That greets us still, though mortal tongues be
	dust.”

	President Snow was indeed a very
remarkable man, and his long life and
eventful career emphasized those character-
stics which were so conspicuous in his
later manhood. He was a man of very
great energy and business enterprise. In
his early life he had been ambitious for
knowledge and determined to obtain a
classical education. And yet he had in his
veins the revolutionary blood which made
him ardently patriotic with a desire to 
serve the country he loved in a military

[Column 2]
capacity, and he received a commission, first
as ensign and afterwards lieutenant in the
Ohio State militia. When twenty-one he
entered Oberlin College and expecting to
make a mark in a literary course including
languages, for which he had a decided
taste.
	Lorenzo Snow was of the New England
Puritan parentage, his forefathers having
arrived at an early date in the settlement
of the colonies, and he inherited the
religious fervor that characterized his
ancestors.
	He was born in Mantua, Portage Co.,
Ohio, April 3, 1814, the Snow family
having moved west from Massachusetts
only a short time before his birth. His
sister, Eliza R. Snow, received the Gospel
first, and it was from her he first heard of
Joseph Smith, the Prophet, and became
interested in the Gospel and was baptized
and ordained an Elder and began preach-
ing among his relatives and friends in
Ohio, many of whom he converted to the
faith in which he so earnestly believed and
to which he eventually consecrated his
whole life.
	In 1838 he went with his family and
parents from Kirtland to Missouri, but was
on a mission in Kentucky when the
Mormon people were driven from there to
Illinois. He joined them in Nauvoo in
May, 1840 and the same month left for a
European mission. While in England he
was made one of the Presidency of the
mission, and had the honor and privilege
of presenting the Book of Mormon to Queen
Victoria and the Prince Consort, through
the courtesy of Sir Henry Wheatly.
	After his return to Nauvoo he taught
school as an occupation, and when the
Nauvoo Legion was organized was made
a Captain.
	When the Saints left Nauvoo in
February, 1846, he was one among the
number of exiles, but after reaching Mt.
Pisgah in the spring remained over until
the spring of 1847, and crossed the plains
the following year, 1848, Captain of a
hundred wagons in Brigham Young’s
company to Salt Lake.
	February 12, 1849, he was ordained an
Apostle, and became a member of the
Quorum of the Twelve. In October of
that year he was appointed to open up a
mission in Italy and the adjoining countries
with three other Elders assisting, organ-
zed a mission in Italy, in November, 1850.
The first converts were Waldenses and the
work spread into Switzerland. At this
time he translated the Book of Mormon and
some pamphlets into Italian. He then
started for India, but on account of an
accident to the ship at Malta he was disap-
pointed in visiti[-]g the Orient and returned
home. The fall after he was appointed by
the Church authorities to locate fifty fami-l
ies within what is now Box Elder County.
He at once proceeded to lay out a city, and
called it Brigham and he was very soon
after made President of that Stake of Zion.
When the County was organized he was
a member of the Council of the Territorial
Assembly of Utah, and continued in the
Legislature for thirty years, during that
time he was twelve years President of the
Council.
	In 1864 he was called on a special mis-
sion to the Sandwich Islands, and when
trying to land at Lahaina, March 31, the
boat capsized in a terrible storm and
President Snow was taken out of the water


apparently dead, but was miraculously
restored to life by his brethren inflating
his lungs with their own breath and his life
was again restored.
His success as a financier in Brigham
city is well known and he established
many prosperous home industries in that
locality. 
When the Edmund’s law was enforced
Apostle Snow was one who was sentenced
under the principle of segregation. His
case was tried before the Supreme Court of
the United States, and after serving eleven
months in the penitentiary he was released
by a decision of said court. His fortitude
and heroism during this long term of
imprisonment for conscience sake won for
him the highest respect from the officers of
the law.
On the demise of President Wilford
Woodruff, Lorenzo Snow, then President
of the Quorum of the Apostles, became by
right of succession, President of the
Church, and was officially elected on
September 13, 1898. At the dedication of
the Temple, April 6, 1893, Apostle Snow
was made President of the Temple, which
position he held at the time of his demise.
His life has been full of noble work well
and faithfully performed. He was posses-
sed of superior executive ability and enter-
prise in whatever pursuit he took part, and
his advice in business matters was con-
sidered wise and his judgment sound.
President Snow was a man of fine intel-
lectuality, a vigorous writer, a student of
classical literature all his life, fond of read-
ing and passionately fond of music of the
best quality, a patron of the fine arts and
altogether a man of culture and refinement
in its highest and best sense.
His labors among the people since he
became President of the Church have been
incessant and arduous for a man of his
years, but he had wonderful vitality and
powers of endurance almost beyond a pos-
sibility of believing.

FUNERAL IN TABERNACLE.
The catafalque, upon which rested the
white casket containing the mortal remains
of the venerable departed leader of Israel,
was veritably embedded in rare flowers
whose fragrance was wafted throughout the
big auditorium. The west end of the vast
building had been transformed into a
regular bower of blossoms, palms and
foliage. White and green was the prevail-
ing effect from the silver-mounted casket
down in front of the stand to the draperies
which hung in artistic festoons from the
gilded pipes of the great organ. The first
four pillars which support the galleries on
either side of the building at the west end
were covered with white draperies around
which were entwined ropes of ivy and
sprigs of autumn leaves. The galleries
above were also draped in similiar effects
relieved by cord tassels and white rosettes.
At the back, towering above the choir, was
the life-sized oil portrait of the departed
President. Immediately beneath the por-
trait was the tribute of the Temple
workers, a reproduction of the Salt Lake
Temple in white and purple everlasting
flowers upon a solid background of deep
green ivy leaves At the right hand, fac-
ing the catafalque, stood the floral design,
the token of the Quorum of Apostles, at the
left the piece offered by the Deseret Sunday
School Union. The first consisted of an
arc nearly five feet in height wrought in
white everlasting flowers and relieved by
twelve stars of pink carnations with a
cream rosebud in the center. Within this
stood a Corinthian pillar in white ever-
lasting flowers with cream colored rosebuds,
fern leaves and a knot of white crepe. On
either side stood one broken column en-
twined with smilax and white carnations,
the whole upon a base of astors, chrysan-
themums and roses, surmounted with a
white dove with wings outstretched. The
Deseret Sunday School Union tribute was
a beehive upon a background of ivy leaves,
the hive—yellow astors and chrysanthe-
mums. The other floral designs were
numerous and elaborate—a scroll in pink
and white roses, dahlias, carnations and
other choice flowers. In the center of the
scroll appeared the purple letters which
read, “As God is Man May Be.” Adja-
cent a lyre of artistic design in different
kinds of flowers from Zion’s Saving Bank
and Trust Company.
The Z. C. M. I. gave a half-moon cres-
cent and a star standing upon an easel in
fern leaves and smilax. A floral anchor
with a crown in the center and a white
dove surmounting the easel, the Latter-day
Saints’ University; a double armfull of per-
fect American Beauty roses represented
the sorrow of the First Seven Presidents of
Seventies.
Other pieces, greatly admired, were an
elaborate lyre from the Elks of Salt Lake;
bouquet on easel, Utah Light and Power
company; basket, Salt Lake Primary
Association; spray of roses, from John W.
Young of New York; spray of roses from
the General Relief Society; design in
chrysanthemums, from R. E. Evans and
wife; horseshoe of roses and ivy from the
General Board of the Y. M. M. I. A.; a
wreath from the General Board of the
Primary Association; harp with the design
“Father,” from the family; bouquet of
roses from Governor Wells and wife; piece
in pink and white roses, carnations,
dahlias and chrysanthemums, with sheaves
of wheat from, the Priesthood and Sunday
Schools of Weber Stake, and dozens of
smaller pieces and simple bouquets.
The funeral services were presided over
by President Joseph F. Smith, who
announced the opening hymn, “O, my
Father,” written by President Snow’s sis-
ter, Eliza R. Snow. It was exquisitely
rendered by the choir. Prayer was offered
by Apostle M. W. Merrill, and the hymn
following was, “Zion Stands with hills
surrounded.”
Apostle Brigham Young was the first
speaker. His address was eloquent and
sympathetic, and he closed with the
remark, “Of all things that are in my
heart, I desire most to stand in the presence
of the servants of God who have gone be-
fore and to be worthy of their plaudits.”
The second speaker was Apostle John
Henry Smith, who also spoke with great
tenderness of the late President and in the
course of his remarks related the following
incident.
“On a recent visit to the city of
Washington I was the bearer of a message
from President Snow to William McKinley
and that great man paid a tribute to our
departed President that I never shall for-
get. President McKinley received the
message with much manifest pleasure and
said to me that he had met President Snow
in Ohio when they were both young men
and had talked with him. He then said to
me: ‘Upon your return to Salt Lake City
I want you to give my best wishes to
President Snow and tell him that I have
much respect and esteem for him as a man
devoted to the interests of his fellow men.
I think he is a good man and lives a God
fearing, true life.’ It was a beautiful
tribute from a great man.”
After Apostle J. H. Smith’s address
the choir sang, with intense feeling, one of
President Snow’s favorite hymns, “Who
are these arrayed in white?”
Apostle John W. Taylor was the next
speaker. He like his brothers who pre-
ceded him, alluded to President Snow’s
spiritual characteristics, and read some
passages from the Pearl of Great Price, and
a revelation given to the Prophet Joseph
Smith on the subject of the priesthood and
some other passages in the Book of Doctrine
and Covenants, and concluded by testifying
of the immortality of man, and that Joseph
Smith was a prophet of God.
The anthem, “Shall We Meet Beyond
the River,” was beautifully sung by the
Temple choir, and President Rudger
Clawson paid a glowing tribute to Presi-
dent Snow’s life and labors. He referred
in his remarks to the Apostles who had
been associated with President Snow and
said how many had gone behind the vail
in the last fifty years. He spoke with
tenderness indicative of deep emotion, and
closed with these words:
“I am interested in the family of Presi-
dent Snow and in their great bereavement
I offer my sympathy. I pray God to help
them and encourage them that they may
have peace and consolation. I pray God
that they may emulate the example of their
father and be strong and brave and firm as
he was. I pray that God will help them
now that they may recognize his hand
and say ‘Thy will, not ours, be done.’ ”
President Joseph F. Smith said that
because of the limited time he would not
attempt to speak, only to say that Presi-
dent Snow was the last of the Apostles of
mature years and who were acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph Smith. “With
the exception of the Prophet Joseph
Smith,” continued the speaker, “I don’t
believe any man ever stood upon this earth
who bore a stronger, more clear cut testi-
mony of Jesus Christ.” President Smith
said that he knew the Prophet Joseph
Smith and he knew he was a Prophet of
God. He bore the same testimony in
relation to Brigham Young, John Tayor,
Wilford Woodruff and Lorenzo Snow.
“You have seen what President Snow has
accomplished but there are some things he
accomplished that you will know nothing
about only through prayer and devotion to
Christ.” President Smith declared to the
family of President Snow that their father
was not deceived and enjoined them to
follow in his footsteps and be true to their
last breath to the cause of Zion
The Tabernacle choir sang the hymn,
“Glory to God on High,” and the bene-
diction was pronounced by Bishop John R.
Winder.
Every arrangement had been carefully
made for those who were to march in the
procession to the depot.
The funeral train was headed by Chief
Hilton and a platoon of police, then Major
Young and Bishop Empey, and Held’s
band came next playing a funeral march;
then came President Smith and Apostle
Young, the men who carried the floral
otterings marched in front of the Apostles,


[Column 1]
also the young ladies, representing the
Sunday School and Y. L. M. I. A., with
some of the flowers. After the casket,
borne by Apostles, relieved by sons of the
late President, came the members of the
family, the presiding Bishopric, wives of
the General Authorities, presidents of
of Stakes and missions. Bishopric of the
Eighteenth Ward, in which President
Snow resided, general boards of the Deseret
Sunday School Union, Relief Society,
Y. M. M. I. A., Y. L. M. I. A., Primary
Association, Church schools and religion
classes. Then came the business directors
of the Z. C, M. I., Zion’s Savings Bank
and Trust Company, Utah Eight and
Power Company, Salt Lake and Los
Angeles Ry. Company, Saltair Beach
Company, Grass Creek Coal Company and
the general public.
	There was a great concourse of people at
the depot to see the train leave and con-
trary to past experience on such occasions,
there was no delay. The casket was
placed in the rear car and those who held
tickets promptly boarded the train.
	The funeral train was composed of seven
cars and the journey to Brigham City was
the shortest time on record. As the cars
sped past town and village groups of peo-
ple could be seen on either side of the
track. The coach containing the casket
was modestly decorated with wreaths
of flowers in the windows and festoons of
smilax and ferns arranged about the
interior.
	About 750 people were on the train in-
cluding all the leading authorities of the
Church, Governor Wells, and other
prominent citizens. There was but one
stop made on the trip, and that was five
minutes at Ogden where the train was met
by the Sunday School children of the city.
	At three o’clock the train reached Brig-
ham City, the city which President Snow
had founded and where he had spent the
most active years of his life. The recep-
tion there was altogether worthy. In
response to the request of the committee
the citizens of Brigham City and Box Elder
county were at the depot with over one
hundred teams to convey the Salt Lake
contingent to the cemetery. The line of
carriages extended over one mile. Such a
funeral Brigham City never witnessed be-
fore in all her history and no doubt it is
stamped indelibly upon the memories of
her citizens who saw it.
	As the procession moved to the ceme-
tery the band played “General Sherman’s
Funeral March,” Beethoven’s “Funeral
March,” and “Dolores.” The line of
march was east on Forest Street to Main,
south to Third South and east to the
cemetery, which is on Fourth East. The
buildings were draped in mourning and the
sidewalks were lined with people. One of
the most beautiful spectacles was the line
of Sunday School children, 1,057 of them
stationed along Main from Forest Street to
Third South.
	The hearse proceeded to the Snow burial
lot, which already contains many members
of the famiiy as indicated by the granite
shafts and marble headstones. The casket
was taken from the hearse and opened for
a brief spell to give the people of Brigham
City an opportunity to take a last view of
the beloved face. During the space the
band played “Nearer, My God, to Thee.”
The four walls of the grave were built ot
brick and lined with white broadcloth.

[Column 2]
Evergreens and flowers were strewn on the
bottom and as the coffin was being lowered
into the receptacle the Brigham City choir,
under the leadership of S. M. Lee, sang
the “Resurrection” hymn. The grave
was dedicated by Apostle George Teasdale,
and after that prayer, Apostle Clawson
arose in behalf of the family and expressed
deep thanks to the people of Box Elder
Stake for their splendid help, and all who
had a hand in laying away the beloved
President. The services at the grave
ended by the choir singing, “Shall We
Meet Beyond the River.”
	The red sandstone blocks formed the top
of the grave, and they were cemented to
the brick walls and the grave was thus
sealed. The box in which the coffin was
encased was made of polished wood with
silver screws. When the grave was heaped
with flowers and all had taken a parting
look at the sacred spot they turned their
faces towards their homes.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


D R. COLUMBUS DAY.
	The Utah State Society Daughters of
the Revolution were entertained at their
regular meeting on Wednesday Octocer 16,
1901, at the home of Mrs. Alice M. S.
Horne. Some miscellaneous business was
disposed of and in addition to the regular
exercises celebrated Columbus Day (Oct-
ober 12) appropriately by sentiments and a
paper on the discovery of America, read by
Mrs. Julia P. M. Farnsworth, after which
Mrs. T. G. Webber gave a graphic
account of her visit to Genoa and the home
and notable places of Columbus remin-
iscences. Mrs. Webber was the only one
present who had visited these historic
scenes.
	In honor of the occasion Mrs. Horne
had decorated a Columbus room in the
most artistic manner imaginable, with a
variety of Indian relics, that reminded one
forcibly ef the early days in the valley as
well as the discovery of America. It only
needed a papoose in the baby basket and a
live Indian mother or two to complete the
picture. There were mats and blankets
galore, mocassins and other buckskin
garments elaborately fringed, and fine
ears of Indian corn in an Indian squaw
basket. The entire room and Indian
ornaments decorated with Autumn leaves
and trailing vines, over which the light of
the setting sun from the western windows
fell, making the picture sufficiently fantas-
tic for the weird fancy to conjure up wood-
land scenes with sleeping Indians, or
almost to hear the warwhoop of the
savages springing from their hiding places.
	In the absence of the regent, Mrs
Williams, the first vice-regent, Mrs
Farnsworth, presided Mrs. Ella W. Hyde
gave her paper which was exceedingly
interesting, the topic being “Important
Events of the Revolution, 1775 and 1776.”
	The refreshments served were also in
keeping with the celebration of the day,
Ice cream in globes, white and chocolate
color, imitating earth and water. Alto-
gether it was a delightful afternoon and
Mrs. Horne deserves great credit for the
artistic taste displayed in the arrangement
of the details that gave such pleasure to her
guests.


Miss Katherine E. Conway, of Boston,
has in press a novel, entitled. “Lalor’s
Maples.”


A DELIGHTFUL RECEPTION. 
	Mrs. W. W. Riter and Mrs. W. D. Riter
gave an elaborate At Home to a large
number of friends and acquaintances at the
residence of Hon. W. W. Riter and wife,
on Tuesday, October 17. The handsome
parlors were beautifully decorated with
magnificent flowers and autumn leaves in
the most artistic style imaginable. A fine
string band made sweet melody in an
adjoining room and the dining room was
garlanded in ribbons and flowers; exquisite
china, cut glass and silver sparkled and
shone as the pretty young girls handled the
tea and coffee service with the sweet-
meats, creams and candies. In the library
a cooling, delicious punch was served by
handsome young matrons, and altogether
the affair was calculated to charm and be-
wilder the lovers of social gaiety. Mrs.
W. W. Riter wore a most becoming gown
and the bride, Mrs. W. D. Riter, was
arrayed in a dainty fashion which suited
her slender figure to perfection.
	Had it really been a wedding party it
could scarcely have been more enjoyable,
except perhaps as gentlemen do add great-
ly to such entertainments, especially
weddings.
	Although it was not a wedding party, it
was in honor of a bride, and therefore,
necessarily most interesting. The guests
all seemed delightfully happy and surely
the ladies who gave so much genuine en-
joyment to their friends must be happy
in the thought, if they were a little weary
of standing and shaking hands with the
dear five hundred.


A VERY PRETTY KENSINGTON.
	Mrs. C. D. Schettler gave a very pretty
Kensington tea at her home, corner 4th and
B. Streets, on Saturday afternoon, October.
12, the Guest of Honor being her mother,
Mrs. Lydia D Alder, just recently returned
from a two years’ mission to England.
Mrs. Alder also visited Germany while
abroad, attended the International Congress
of Women held in London in 1899, and
was one of the American women enter-
tained by Her Majesty, Queen and Empress
Victoria, at St. George’s Hall, July 21,
1901. Altogether Mrs. Alder had a most
interesting and successful tour and mission
to the land of her nativity. She visited
her relatives in the beautiful little town of
Trowbridge where her parents had resided
previous to coming to America.
	Mrs. Schettler’s parlors were artistically
decorated for the occasion and the delight-
ful music of stringed instruments added
much to the enjoyment of the very large
number of assembled guests. The beauti-
ful young girls in dainty muslins and sum-
mer fabrics, with their lively conversation
mixing with young matrons and elderly
ladies was a very pleasant contrast, and
the afternoon was most enjoyable. These
social gatherings help to unite and cement
together the friendships of those whose
interests are in a way closely identified
with each other.
	Of course the delicious refreshments,
lemonade, bon bons etc., served by the
graceful young ladies, is one of the enliven-
ing features of a Kensington tea or an
afternoon party, even if chocolate is used
instead of the regulation “tea.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A PLEASANT GATHERING.
	It is always a pleasure to meet, even now
and then, old friends and new ones under
auspicious circumstances, and in delightful
homes where great hearts hold out the
hand of welcome and fellowship with kind-
ly feeling and gracious manner. Of this
nature was the afternoon At Home on
Tuesday, October 21, at the pretty cottage
on Twelfth East St., where Mrs. Anna
Sharp and her daughter, Mrs. Jeannette
Ferguson, and daughter-in-law, Mrs.
David Sharp, received their invited guests
from two to six.
	Autumn leaves tastefully arranged with
ivy and smilax, and great vases of magnifi-
cent chrysanthemums and cosmos adorned
the parlors and gave the rooms the appear-
ance of a fairy scene.
	The tables from which the guests were
served were not wanting in floral decora-
tions and superb women shone conspicu-
ausly in pouring the tea and coffee, while
young girls with modest grace served the
delicious refreshments in the happiest
manner. In the library one might refresh
herself from the punch bowl presided over
by one who knew well how to do the hon-
ors, and indeed there was nothing lacking
to attract the attention and admiration of
all who delight in these social festivities.
	Society owes much to those who bring
people together even for an hour’s enjoy-
ment in meeting with a cordial grasp of the
hand, those whose presence and friendly
feeling strengthen the ties of social life and
help to bind communities together.


[Column 1]
A BIOGRAPHY.
SARAH PRICE JONES ROBERTS. 
	I was born in May, 1828, in the Parish
of Westbury, Shropshire, England. My
father’s name was William Price, my
mother’s name was Eleanor Beedle Price. I
was the youngest but one of eight children,
three boys and five girls.
	My parents were a very honest and up-
right couple, and they always taught us to
be honest and truthful. My childhood
days were spent at home, but when I
grew older I lived with a gentleman’s fam-
ly for a while, after which I returned
home, and when eighteen years of age I
was married to William Jones in the West-
bury Church, May 1846.
	In 1849 I heard a Latter-day Saint Elder
preach and the joyful sound came to a
thankful heart. After hearing the glad,
message four times I embraced the same,
being baptized by Elder John Tibbets, and

[Column 2]
was confirmed a member of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints by Elders
John Tibbets and John James.
	I prayed to the Lord for a testimony and
if it was true to bless me with a child. He
answered by giving me a son, born July 6,
1850, but he only lived to comfort me ten
short days and then went back to the One
who gave him. We named him Handley
Jones. My husband was a good, kind hus-
band and an honorable man, and we lived
very happily together. I used to preach
the Gospel to him and tried to get him to
see as I did, but he did not want any re-
ligion and would not embrace it. I told
him I would have to leave him and go to
Utah, but he did not think I would. We
lived happily together for twenty-three
years, with the exception of religion, which
was everything to me and I left him, my
home and all my dear ones on the 26th of
July 1869, to cross the mighty deep to join
the Saints in Utah. While on the sea I
sent a letter to my husband and it almost
broke his heart, for he did not know I was
gene, and you, dear readers, can better 
imagine my feelings when writing this
letter than I can write them but the Lord
says that “he that will not leave father and
mother and all for my sake, is not worthy,
of me.” So I thought it was time for me
to make the sacrifice.
	I had a good voyage over the sea and
took the train for Ogden, which did not
come any nearer in those days in Utah.
	Brother Wm. T. Higginson met me at
the depot and took me to his home in
Bountiful, Davis Co., Utah. The 15th of
April, 1870, he with his family and myself
moved to Goshen, and there I lived with
his family until I married a widower
with four children, Brother Peter Roberts;
but the baby died leaving three chil-
dren for me to be a mother to, and I tried
to teach them to the best of my ability.
	In 1870 I joined the Relief Society in
Goshen, was a teacher for some time, then
was chosen president of the teachers and
am now a director in the Relief Society Board.
	I was teacher in the Sunday School for
many years and in 1878 the Primary was
organized and I was chosen president
thereof, Lucy Taylor and Mary Ann Price
counselors, and I held that position till
1890, when I was released, having to walk
so far, and was chosen an aid to the Stake
Presidency of Utah County. I have en-
joyed my labors in all these offices and
have tried to do my duty to the best of my
ability and the knowledge my Heavenly
Father has blessed me with.
	My father and mother died in 1861. I
left two brothers and two sisters, aunts and
uncles, besides a host of friends for the
Gospel’s sake but have never regretted it.
My husband and myself have done a great
deal of work in the Temple for our dead
relatives and friends and have felt to re-
joice in doing so, for it is a grand work and
we always feel happy in working for the
redemption of the living and the dead, and I
never tire in bearing my testimony to the
truth of the Gospel, and I hope to be ever
true and faithful, for I love the Gospel bet-
ter than my life and desire to do all the
good I possibly can while I live here upon
the earth.


We have not failed until we cease
trying.


[Column 1]
OBITUARIES.
ALICE R. CUNHA.
	Alice R. Cunha was born December 23rd, 1866,
in Richfield, Sevier Co., Utah. Died September
4, 1901, at Castle Dale, Emery County, Utah.
Was first counselor of the Relief Society of Castle
Dale.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, it has pleased our Heavenly Father
to remove our dear sister and take her to a higher
sphere, therefore be it
	Resolved, That we mourn her loss as a faithful
worker in the cause of truth and that we desire to
emulate her earnest labors; and be it
	Resolved, That we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and daughter, and pray our.
Heavenly Father to let the comforting influence of
His Holy Spirit rest down upon them, that they
may realize that she has only gone before and is
enjoying the rest of the faithful and will come
forth to a glorious immortality and eternal life.
And be it
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on our record, one sent to the bereaved
family and one to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for
publication.
				SARAH S. LARSEN, Sec.
BETSY MASON BROWER.
	Sister Betsy Mason Brower died July 29, 1901,
in Lewiston, Utah, at the home of her daughter,
Sister E. C. Van Orden, after a severe and lin-
gering illness caused by cancer. The deceased
was aged 74 years and 7 months. She was born
in Birmingham, England, in 1826, and embraced
the Gospel in the land of her birth in 1853, emi-
grating to Utah in 1854, sailing on the ship,
Windermere. She was called to the office of
secretary during the first year of the organization
of the Richmond branch of the Relief Society in
the year 1864, acting from that time until 1889,
Nine years of that time she labored as counselor.
From that time on she labored as teacher, until
within four years of her demise.
	She was beloved by her associates for her integ-
rity, her love of right and her love of truth and
her staunch faith in the Gospel of Christ. She
was a friend to the poor and a wise counselor in
her home and we recognize in the death of our
beloved sister the loss of a faithful and energetic
worker, a faithful mother to her family, having a

[Column 2]
determination to educate them in adverse circum-
stances.
	And we highly esteem her faithful and untiring
labors and devotion to the interests of Zion
worthy of imitation by her children and friends.
	The Relief Society of Richmond showed their
very high esteem for Sister Brower by the presen-
tation of a beautiful anchor of white roses. These
were buried with dear “Aunt Betsy,” as she was
known by all. In return for which the children
and friends return their sincere thanks. 
							E. C. V.
	Lewiston, Utah, Oct. 2, 1901.
ANN HOLT.
	Ann Holt, the subject of this sketch, was born
August 3, 1826, in Dorsetshire, England. Her
parent’s names were Thomas Harrison and Har-
riet Flann. She was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints August 15, 1849,
by Elder Job Daley.
	In connection with her husband, Mathew Holt,
(who died in May last) a son and daughter, she
left her native country for the land of Zion in
1863, arriving in Salt Lake City, October 4, of the
same year. Here she was met by James and
Maria Oliver, with whom the following day she
went to South Jordan, Salt Lake Co., Utah,
where she made her home until the day of her
death, September 25, 1901. She was the only
one of her father’s family who feared God more
than mammon and had the stamina to accept the
Gospel.
	Before emigrating she assisted the Elders in
their singing upon the street corners and else-
where and because of her connection with the
Church and bold defence of the same she received
the scoffs and scorns of the world. Many times
have stones, rotten eggs, etc. been hurled at her,
yet she did not waver.
	After arriving in the valleys of the mountains
she continued to serve her God and succeeded in
driving mammon farther fram her each year of
her life.
	At the time of the organization of the Relief
Society of South Jordan in 1869, she was chosen
as its first president, which position she held until
her death, thirty-two years.
	She was kind, gentle and loving to such a great
extent that she demanded the love and respect of
all who knew her.
	She was wise in counsel, which was sought by
all, both male and female. Those who have ac-
cepted it never failed in being greatly benefited.
	She has been a queen among her own sex, a
mother to the orphans, a peace maker unto the
peace breakers, a comforter unto the downcast
and a blessing unto the world.
	She sought not honor, nor glory of man or the
riches of this earth. Her eyes were ever heaven-
ward, her ears ever open to the whisperings of
the Spirit of God, her arms ever outstretched to
relieve the sick and afflicted and her feet always
in that straight and narrow way.
	After 75 years in this sinful world she has passed
to the great beyond, a ruler in God’s Kingdom
and a savior upon Mount Zion, leaving a numer-
ous posterity and hosts of friends to mourn her
loss.
	Peace be to her ashes and God grant her a full
exaltation which she has so faithfully earned.
									A. M.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
WALKS AROUND CANTERBURY.
	What a history this city has! Once a
Roman stronghold, fortified with a wall all
around it, portions of which are still stand-
ing. Also some of the sentinel’s posts,
where are apertures for their guns, and
where in those days a stern voice called,
“Who goes there?” Slowly but surely
they are crumbling to decay, but now are
monuments to their builders, who long ago
returned to dust from whence they came.
Of late years the municipality of Canter-
bury have taken great care of all these
relics, which ivy-grown, with rustic seats
within them, woo’s one’s fancy and imagin-
ation.
THE DANE JOHN.
	Following the line of the city wall, the ter-
race which bounds the castle market is full
in view, being considerably raised. Cross-
ing the bridge we reach the old Riding
Gate, outside of which was the meeting
point of three Roman Roads. One leads to
Rickborough, one (now the stone street) to
Lympne, the other was the Watling Street,
leading one way to Dover, the other to
London and Chester.
	The street inside the gate is called the
Watling street, but at this point Roman
Canterbury had been destroyed, that the
true line of the street was lost, but was dis-
covered when the excavations for drainage
revealed the foundations of the Roman
houses in the middle of the present road.
	The true line of the street, however, is
given in its western continuation, the Lane,
which leads to the original place of crossing
the river.
	The Riding Gate, constructed of Roman
brick, has disappeared. It seems that this
part of the city wall was the end of the
Roman fortifications. The part of this wall
is well preserved, and forms the outside
embankment of the bridge. Looking over
its side we see the old moat, converted at
this point into a vegetable garden, and far-
ther on to a cattle market. The offices of
the dealers have been made underground,
facing out on the street, and on the ground
level of the old moat, the bridge being
above over which thousands pass daily.
Strange feelings fill the heart of the be-
holder. So many hundreds of years ago
citizens and soldiers of ancient Rome lived
their lives here, died and were buried; not
only here, but in other cities of England.
In the old capital city of Winchester, when
excavating for water mains a number of
years ago, in one of the streets a man and
a woman were unearthed apparently in an
excellent state of preservation, but vanish-
ing from sight as soon as the air touched
them. They had coins in their hands of
the time of Julius Ceasar, of the date 60
years B. C. This was the money to pay
the ferryman to row them across the river.
Of course the remains were immediately
sent to the British Musuem.
	Passing the bridge before mentioned, we
enter the grounds know as the Dane John.
This from time immemorial has been open

[Column 2]
ground for the amusement of the citizens.
It was laid out and planted in the early
part of this century by one of the city’s
aldermen, whose munificence and public
spirit is commemorated by the obelisk on
the mound, which cone shaped, rises to a
great heihgt.
	This mound is a puzzle to antiquarians;
however old the walls may be the mound is
certainly older, for at this point the wall
bends so as to admit of the mound being
included. Formerly two others were out-
side of this wall. Its present shape is
most usual, but originally it was of the
ordinary bell shape, lower and larger in
circumference. The ground being taken
from the outside and placed at the top, has
produced the present conical shape. It is
also a puzzle to account for its name which
appears in various forms, Dangon, Dangen,
Demgoen and Dungal in the different per-
iods of its history.
	Some think that Dane John is the true
form and that the mound is Danish earth-
work, but it really seems of earlier date
than the Danish invasion, yet it might
have been a monument of some of their
victories, as history tells us of the death of
a certain Danish king somewhere in this
locality. An old cannon is preserved in
the park at the foot of the mound, said to
have once belonged to the Danes.
	A winding walk around the sides of the
mound by gradual ascent reaches the
monument on top which gives the names
and history pertaining to the surrounding
park and of those who gave the same to
the city.
	The view from this point is delightful.
The gardens, with flowers, shrubbery,
trees and walks below, look in miniature
from this height, as also the old cannon,
which appears as a toy. The Banacks, the
Orphanage for minister’s children, the cas-
tle ruins and the monument erected by the
citizens for the forty one Kentish martyrs,
who were burned at the stake in the reign
of Queen Mary, because they belonged to
the Reformed Church, are all plainly dis-
cernible.
	Up here the wind is blowing almost a
gale, it is like a veritable March day. Still
it is invigorating, and the company laugh
merrily as we hold on to the fence until
each gust has spent itself.
	This is a popular Lovers Walk on sum-
mer moonlight nights, such walks must be
ideal indeed. The grassy sides of the Dane
John look like velvet. Peace and quiet
reign here; it is a secluded retreat where
the pulse of the busy city below is not felt.
	Down in the park seats are scattered
around, inviting repose and relaxation.
Lovers choose a romantic walk when they
ascend the Dane John. Like their aspir-
ations, it is far above the world’s tumult,
almost in realms of bliss; but the path that
ascends also descends, and they must
awaken on common terra firma again. If
their fairy castles are as high as the Dane
John, no wonder they have so many sad
falls. Of course one is nearer the moon and

[Column 3]
stars, the far away and unttainable, which
may account for the sweet dreams of youth
which never fulfilled are always eluding
the hand that tries to imprison them, even
until the day of life is past and the night
falls.
	Still the world would be dull without
them, so youth dream on. The spot, the
hour is enchanted; neither moon nor stars
ever tell tales. This beauty will disappear
when the garish sun has arisen.
	How strange! This formerly a part of
the great Roman Empire. The wall is
high and strong, no doubt they thought it
impregnable, with the moat and draw-
bridges. Though so strongly fortified her
power was broken and strangers pulled
down the walls.
			(Continued.)


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for you money.					TRY US.

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank n Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
		LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
		GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.

The Most Convenient Local Train Service
in the State is given by the . . . . .
Oregon Short Line
	Railroad
FIVE Fast Daily Trains Each Way between
Salt Lake City and Ogden . . . , . .

Se that your tickets read via the
	“SHORT LINE”
			And Get the bes

CITY TICKET OFFICE for tickets to all points, 100 West
	Second South Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.

S. W. Eccles,		D. E. Burley,
	Gen Tfc. Mgr.		G. P. & T. A


Woman’s Exponent.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation

