Vol. 30			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1902			No. 14


CONTENTS.

Biographical Sketch of Fannie I. Helmuth		105
The Imperial Palace in Berlin..L. D. Alder		106
Virgen City Celebration.....Marion L Pratt		106
 Medical Congress....................				106
Yellow, Pnrple, White...................				107
Lyman Celebration.......Maruetha Atkinson		107
Red Cross Meets.......................				107
Chicago Sweat Shops....................				109
Program of Council Meeting..Susa Y. Gates		110
Sketch and Resolution.....Mary A. Ransom		111
Essay on Relief Society Work.. A. Griffiths		111
National Council Notes.....Susa Y. Gates		111
Utah Woman's Press Club........L. D. Alder		112

Editorial—Thirty Volumes...................			108
	Four Score Years.....................			108
Distinguished Women.........					108

POETRY-Let us have Peace..Emily H. Wood-
			mansee..........................................  105
	  In   Futuro....................................Selected  	105
  	  To the Sisters........ L. L. Greene Richards	107


LET US HAVE PEACE.
	“Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be
called the children of God.”—Jesus,

		"Let us have peace.”
		Oh! would to God we could
Hasten the time when love and equity
Will sway the world, and peace on earth restore;
Would we could tell the troubled multitude— 
“Swords into ploughshares soon shall beaten be, 
Nations and tribes henceforward will agree— 
	And study war no more. 

		“Let us have peace.”
		Can heaven reject the prayer?
Can heaven ignore the widow’s piteous moan?
Or disregard the orphan's grievous cry?
God sees His children's suffering everywhere
The mournful sigh ascends to heavens white throne.
God’s plans are surely broader than our own;
Can aught His love outvie?

		“Let us have peace.”
		Let men their wrath restrain,
Let the world’s sisterhood their efforts blend. 
That strife may wane and happiness increase.
Ambitious greed, that would advantage gain
Must loose its hold, ere direful war will end;
Inspire the race. Almighty Lord and Friend
	To speed the reign of peace.
				EMILY H. WOODMANSEE,
	Salt Lake City, May, 1902.


IN FUTURO.

It seems to me the bud of expectation
Has not yet swollen to the perfect flower
That with its wondrous fragrant exhalation
	The world of faith will dower.

The lamps we light are but the stars of promise,
The faintest reflex of a distant sun
That wakes an eager salutation from us,
	Till nobler heights are won.

The past was but the preface to the story
In which the romance of our lives is wrought;
The deeds that win imperishable glory
	Live scarcely in our thought.

Whate’er we do falls short of our intending;
The structure lacks the beauty we design;
And tortured angels to their home ascending,
	Depart and leave no sign.

By all the doubts and trials that so vex us,
By all the falls and failures that annoy,
By all the strange delusions that perplex us,
	And yield no fruit of joy.

We know that unto mortals is not given
The strength or knowledge that is yet in store 
For us, ere yet we walk the streets of heaven,
	And dream of heaven no more.


The heart of earth has secrets yet withholden,
That wait the dawning of some future day,
When angel hands from sepulchre so golden
	Shall roll the stone away.

Man has not touched the [---]th of creation;
The godlike thought that filled Jehovah's mind
Has had in him but feeble revelation,
	Uncertain, undefined

The days wherein Time reaches its fruition,
With moments weighted with no vain regret,
Those days of which the soul has sweet pre-
	vision,
		Draw nigh, but are not yet.
							SELECTED.


[Column 1]
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH OF FANNIE I. 
HELMUTH

PRESIDENT NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.

Fannie Ida Helmuth, born in New York
City, of patriotic family, twenty-two mem-
bers having fought in the Revolution on
the American side. Ancestors lived in
New York from 1672, but during her early
childhood her parents moved to St. Louis,
where her father entered business as a
banker, and was the organizer, captain and
afterwards colonel, of the first company of
militia of the National guards in that
city.
Took a keen interest in charitable work
of all kinds from the time she was ten
years old, and especially in the Orphans’
Home of St. Louis, of which her mother
was first directress.
Was the first woman to drive over the
Steel arch bridge constructed at St. Louis
across the Mississippi River by the well
known engineer, Captain James B. Eads,
the captain being her escort. Was also the
first woman to make the trip on the
Missouri Pacific Railroad to Indian Terri-
tory, and the first on the Ohio and Missis-
sippi, after the opening of those roads and
the retirement of stage coaches.
Was married to William Tod Helmuth,
in St. Louis, February 10, 1859—three
children, two of them are living.
Has always taken great interest and
pride in her husband’s advancement in his
profession, and his welfare is always con-
sidered first. She and her husband moved
to New York in 1870, and three hospitals
in that city had their beginning in her
house. On one occasion $100,000 was
raised in two weeks, during the first year 
she was in New York, by means of a fair,
for the benefit of one of these hospitals.
For another a fair was given and $10,000
was realized.
Mrs. Helmuth also founded and for
eleven years was president of the Woman’s
Guild of the New York Homoeopathic
Medical College and Hospital.
Visited Japan in 1892. The party was
caught in a typhoon on the way to Myon-
oshita, and was in great danger for several
hours. It was only by the strenous
efforts of Dr. and Mrs. Helmuth that the
frightened guides could be induced to go
forward to safety. On the way home, two
days out from Yokohama, the ship was dis-
covered to be on fire in one of the large
compartments. Finding it impossible to
control the flames the captain made for the

[Column 2]
port of Hakodadi, in northern Japan,
which was not reached for thirty-six
hours, and assistance obtained.
Mrs. Helmuth is fond of art in all forms,
especially paintings. Also of old china,
and is extremely proficient in embroidery.
She and her husband were connected with
the St. Louis Sanitary Fair Commission,
and had charge of the Art Department.
Became a member of Sorosis in February
1876, not many years after it was founded,
and held various offices. Although her
first election to the presidency was opposed
by some her re-election was unanimous, as
she had won the confidence of all during
the administration of her first term. She
served also on the Executive Committee
many terms.
In 1894 was elected vice-president of the
New York State Federation of Women’s
Clubs, acting for one year of her term in 
the place of the president, during the ill-
ness of that officer. Was then elected
President in 1896-98, and re elected 1898-
1900, thus serving as President of that
body longer than any one else. Upon the
expiration of her term of office she was, on
November 19, 1900, presented with a
loving cup by the clubs over whom she
had for so long, as well as so gracefully
and acceptably presided, the presentation
taking place at the close of the convention
in the Assembly Chamber in the Capital at
Albany, where the sessions had been held
A former associate officer writes of her:
“She has great skill in conducting large
meetings as a presiding officer of exper-
ience and ability. In the chair she is just
and impartial, with a ready wit, even
temper and enduring physique, which en- 
able her at all times to hold her h[-]use well
in hand. The distinguishing point of the
large conventions over which she has pre-
sided as State President is the apparent
ease with which she maintained order and
peace often in the face of unpromising pos-
sibilities. By her work in the chair she
turned the New York State Federation
from a small and imperfectly bound organ-
ization, with many factions, into a close-
knit whole of united mind. The loving
cup was the recognition of the Federation
of these facts.”
Mrs Helmuth has been elected honorary
member of many organizations both in
this country and in Europe. One club of
which she is a member is composed entire-
ly of the wives of physicians. She has
been presented from time to time with
seventy-nine badges, most of them by
clubs throughout the city and state
of New York, in token of the regard in
which she is held.
In 1901 she accepted the chairmanship
of the Industrial School Committee, the
welfare of which she has much at heart, as
it has for its object to provide a non-sec-
tarian school where girls may receive
training necessary to become self-support-
ing in occupations other than those
afforded by stores, etc. 
Also in 1901 she founded in New York
City the “West Point Chapter of the


Daughters of the American Revolution.” 
	At the present time she is the president
of the National Council of Women.—Club
Bulletin.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column  1]
	THE IMPERIAL PALACE IN BERLIN
	AND OTHER POINTS OF INTEREST.
	The Dome Building faces on one side
the Imperial Palace and on the other
the Royal Museum. It has a large centre
dome and a smaller one on each corner.
At the back of the building flows the river 
Spree. Large gold crosses are placed on 
the center of each tower, while two, one on
each side of the main entrance, are sur-
mounted with gold crowns. Much gold is
also glittering from its roof. It is sur-
rounded on three sides by a lovely park,
where two fountains are constantly throw-
ing their silvery sprays.
	When completed it will be one of the
most costly buildings in the world, nothing
but rock inside and out, with rare statuary
and rich surroundings. Also statuary sur-
mounted by gold crosses is to adorn each en
trance.
	Out through the city gates, where on the
city side the Kaiser is met when he returns,
by the city officials, who with great pomp
welcome him through the gates—we pass
on to see the
	PARLIAMENT BUILDING. 
	This is a magnificent and costly struc-
ture, (said to have cost five millions of dol-
lars.) On its roof, in the centre, is a gold
dome, while each corner is raised in an
elaborate square tower. Here meet the
law-makers of the nation. There are
many rooms, large and richly ornamented,
designated to the different departments of
government.
	The commissioners room has a long
table with chairs on either side with plain
oak ceiling and floor.
	The walking hall is spacious. Here the
august law-makers take a walk when law-
making becomes wearisome. It is a very
imposing room with seats on the sides and
marble floor with ceiling arched and costly.
Through a number of ante-rooms, then
comes a beautiful hall of stucco work with
seats of red cloth, the stucco work making
a magnificent background for each.
Bronze statues of former lawmakers are
here and there through the building.
Up stairs we reach the room where the
delegates assemble, and is known as the
		REICHSTAG.
	The seats number about four hundred,
the name of the owner on the back of each.
The ceiling is a large skylight of a pearl
grey color, with a border of red and vari-
egated colors. The light is clear that shines
through this glass. This hall is much the
shape of a theatre, the seats ranging down
as in the parquette. The speaker’s stand is
elevated, the stenographer’s table under-
neath and a private desk. Elevated still
higher is the president’s chair, which is
beautiful. Of course we had to sit in the
chair and imagine we were the president of
the famous Reichstag, then stand in the
speaker’s stand and think we were address-
ing the House, first the Right and then the
Left. Then to try the member’s seats,
finding them quite comfortable, although
we think they sometimes must be full of
thorns.

[Column 2]
This is an interesting room, and here we
remain some time. One thinks of the
stormy sessions often held here, sometimes
even disgraceful scenes occurring, when
statesmen war with statesmen, some con-
tending for one measure and some for
another.
	Passing up a flight of stairs we reach the
balcony, where a few spectators are some-
times admitted. From this point also
looking downward the hall has the appear-
ance of a very pretty theatre, if the Presi-
dent’s and Speaker’s stands were only a
stage.
	Through cloak rooms and other beautiful
halls with crimson carpets on hall and
stairs nearly an inch thick, which look so
beautiful and rich on the white marble
floors.
	Descending the stairs again, more costly
statuary and busts—we are informed that
these are the spirits of former legislators,
who have done with the laws of this life,
but as these people suppose, they still look
after the affairs with which they were
formerly associated, advising justice, right-
eousness, truth and fidelity.
	This is a noble building, solid as though
hewn in the rock itself. Well may
Germany be proud of its Parliament
House where meets the Reichstag.
	Opposite another entrance to the palace
is a fine monument of Emperor Frederick
William III. This also faces the Royal
Museum and is situated in a lovely park.
	The Emperor is mounted on a horse,
while on the upper part of the pedestal are
statues and figures that represent educa-
tion and the different trades O, these
lovely parks ! Every available spot has a
few trees, a fountain and a monument,
with seats here and there where the weary
may rest.
	Another fountain called the Castle
fountain is in front of another entrance to the
palace, and is the most wonderful yet seen.
Old Neptune of huge dimensions is seated
or reclining on a high pedestal, reaching
out with curious statuary beneath it, while
on the sides, out in the lake made by the
water, serpents send streams of water all
over it. The fountain has a stone casing
of curious design with four female figures
reclining upon it, back of whom other
streams of water pour their volume over
this god of the sea, who holds an immense
spear in his hand.
	By some this is supposed to be the god
of the Rhine. The street here is about
four hundred feet wide with the fountain
near its centre.
	Immediately opposite the palace are the
Imperial stables, a fine building of white
stone. At either end, in a deep recess, is
statuary showing some wonderful feats that
man and the horse can perform. The
figures of both are very large and fill
the recess. Perhaps they commemorate
some brave achievement in battle, such a
wild look is expressed by the animals. One
would suppose this was a palace instead of
a stable, so beautiful is the building.
	The busses and cars all pass here for
“Under the Linden.’’
				Lydia D. Alder.
	Note—-Shortly after our visit to the Imperial
Palace a dispatch was published in the foreign
papers that some one had informed the authorities 
of France that while passing through the palace
he had seen a portion of the fatal Bordereax papers 
renowned in the tragic, world-famed Dreyfus
case, on a desk in the palace. By order of the
Kaiser it was immediately closed to visitors. It

[Column 3]
is to be regretted, for the State apartments are
gems beyond description and give one an appre-
ciation of what splendor the precious things of the
earth, combined with the experience of man, can
produce.—L. D. A.


VIRGEN CITY CELEBRATION.
	On the 17th of March the Relief Society
of Virgen City gave a grand ball which
was well attended by old and young.
The evening was spent in dancing inter-
spersed with songs, etc., after which a de-
licious luncheon was served and all had an
enjoyable time.
	The program of the day was omited
on account of a general board meeting of
Hurricane Canal, which could not be post-
poned. The ten cent fund has been
promptly attended to and our district
is in a thriving condition under the
general supervision of our beloved presi-
dent, Sariah A. Workman (who has served
us so many years) and Counselors Emma
Hinton and Mary D. Spendlove.
		MARION L. PRATT.


MEDICAL CONGRESS IN NEW YORK.
	The “American Congress of Tuberculo-
sis,” one of the most notable medical
gatherings in the world, convenes in the
Majestic hotel in New York, May 14, 15
and 16, 1902. It includes the Canadies,
United States, South and Central American
States. It will be conducted on the same
lines as the European Congress held in
London, July, 1901, where the leading
physicians, scientists, statesmen and phil-
anthropists of Europe assembled.
	One of the leading questions coming be-
fore the Congress will be the establishment
of State Sanatariums for hygienic treatment
of tuberculous patients. One-fifth of all
deaths occur from this cause, and through-
out Europe where Sanatariums have been
established the death role has been reduced
one-half.
	In addition to the president, Hon. Henry
D. Holten of Vermont, there are seventy-
five vice-presidents and honorary vice-
presidents. The honorary vice-presidents
are selected from the governors of states
and presidents of the South and Central
American States.
	A museum has been established and will
be open during the Congress—collections
of drugs, photographs of sanitary districts,
biological specimens, etc, 
	Governor Heber M. Wells, honorary
vice-president for Utah, has appointed
delegates who will attend the coming
session, and Dr. Martha Hughes Cannon,
who was appointed vice-president for Utah
last November, contributes to the Museum
a fine collection of photographic views of
sanitary districts, health resorts, bathing
places and general points of interest in and
around Salt Lake City, statistical and
meteorological rep[-]rts of the State and a
paper on climatic influences in Utah.
	Considering educational work has al-
ready been done in Utah along this line, it
is befitting Utah as an equal suffrage state,
that so far she is the only one to which the
courtesy of a vice-president has heen ex-
tended to a woman.


A replice of the statue of LaFayette erec-
ted in Paris and paid for by American
school children, is to be presented to the
city of Washington.


Woman's Exponent.


[Column 1]
TO THE SISTERS.
L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.
You who are stationed at the outer ports
	Of Zion’s bulwarks, laboring with your might,
Should have some glimpses of her inner courts,
And her “First Lady” calls on me to write.

It is so sweet and beautiful to hear
	Inspired souls their holy thoughts rehearse,
That I will try to give you, sisters dear,
	A few of our new President’s in verse.
  
SOME OF SISTER BATHSHEBA'S WORDS. 
[lN SUBSTANCE.]

When our beloved Zina died,
	And we were headless left,
Our General Board disorganized,
	I felt indeed bereft.

I felt, a younger woman then,
	Than we who long had stood,
Should be appointed at the head,
	To bring the utmost good.

When the October Conference closed,
	With no appointments made,
I could but feel our cause was thrown
	A little in the shade.

As though our brethren, at the head,
	Had such great works on hand,
It seemed but small account that ours
	Should still unsettled stand.

But one bright morn, I had a dream;
	I saw a ladder rise,
In sections, one, two, three and more,
	Shoot upward towards the skies.

The Spirit whispered as I gazed
	With some anxiety,
“This represents your Woman’s work,
	The Relief Society.”

Yes, Emma and Eliza, too,
	And Zina all have wrought;
And others now must follow on—
	But who, and when? I thought.

Then stood the Prophet Joseph there,
	Intently watching all;
“Oh, well,” I thought. “Our work is safe—
	He will not see it fall !”

Yes, ’twas the Prophet Joseph Smith,
	So noble, grand and true;
Just as he organized us first,
In beautiful Nauvoo.

The very clothing which he wore,
	As oft we saw him dressed;
His hat was off, a light gray coat,
	And very pale buff vest.

To see him thus, so natural stand,
	With face and form to guide,
Such joyous reverence inspired,
	My soul was satisfied.

I thought within myself. “No more
	I’ll deem the brethren slow;
But wait the Lord's own time and way,
	For He and Joseph know.”

“A younger sister” then stood near,
	Whose dear and well known face
I noticed, thinking, she, perhaps,
	Will fill that vacant place.

I wakened with a pleasant thrill,
	And heart so glad arid light.
That I could only feel assured
	All things would turn out right.

November Tenth, that grand, great day,
	When all the Church was called
To vote that its new Presidents
	Might rightly be installed.

When Joseph F., the nephew of
The Prophet, Joseph First,
Arose and spoke that day, what power
	Forth from his presence burst ! 

So much a kin his spirit seemed
	To that his uncle bore,
The Saints might almost feel the First
	Was in their midst once more.

And lo, a perfect unity
	Throughout the Church was shown—
Four hundred thousand souls as one!
Not oft such strength is known.

[Column 2]
When the First Presidency all,
	Thus fully were sustained,
To make the work complete, it seemed
	That something still remained.

When Joseph in his majesty
	Stood up and spoke my name,
And then the others following,
	And votes were cast the same;

That like the brethren, we were thus
	Empowered to preside;
With gratitude and love, my soul
	Was more than satisfied.

And as a grateful, clinging child 
	Her father would caress,
I could have clung to Joseph then.
	In trustful tenderness.

May all our Presidents of Stakes,
And Bishops note this case, 
And seek to honor and uphold
	Each sister in her place. 

Her place may every sister know,
	And strive the same to fill
With that specific grace which comes
	From doing Father’s will,

May perfect unity extend,
	Our power for good increase,
In works of charity and love,
	Humility and peace.

Not crowding, but with helpful zeal,
	Each cheerfully be found
Climbing the ‘ladder,” until all
	Shall gain the topmost round.


YELLOW, PURPLE, WHITE.
LIBERTY, UNITY, FRATERNITY—PEACE
		COLORS DESIGNATED BY THE
			COMMITTEE.
	As decorations for the peace meetings
which are to be held on Thursday, May
15, the following suggestions are offered:
	Flags may be used in every available
space—the flag of our own country and
the flags of any and all countries which
can be had or can be made of simple
materials at hand. In a particularly
prominent place should hang the peace
flag, which can be made by any one with-
out much difficulty from simple materials.
It is a tri-color, emblematic of liberty, unity
and fraternity. Yellow is next to the
flagstaff (which is blue) purple in the centre
and then white at the end The motto,
“Pro concordia labor,’’ (we work for peace)
may be placed upon the flag; also an olive
branch. Over the flag sheathed swords
might be hung as an additional symbol of
peace. Flowers and the colors used in the
peace flag would be suitable for decoration.
	Any picture suggestive of peace would
make appropriate decorations; as, for ex-
ample, the picture of Wm. Penn’s treaty
with the Indians or the picture of Corn-
wallis surrendering at Yorktown.
	The committee in charge of the various
meetings will know best what they have
at their disposal with which to decorate,
and this matter must be left largely to
their discretion, but the foregoing sugges-
tions may be of service to those who are in
doubt how to proceed.
		ISABEL M. W. SEARS,
		MARY A. H. CANNON.


LYMAN CELEBRATION.
	In commemoration of the sixtieth anni-
versary of the organization of the Relief
Society in Nauvoo by the Prophet Joseph
Smith.      The Lyman Ward was newly or-
ganized March 2, 1902, this being the first
celebration in the new ward, and we are
pleased to say it was a grand success.   A


large congregation attended the services,
which commenced at 10 a. m., and the fol-
lowing program was rendered in a very
creditable manner.
Song, Sister Chloe Robison and com-
pany. Historical sketch of the Relief
Society from its first organization up to the
present time, Sister Elizabeth Atkins.
Song, Sister Alice Simmons and company.
Recitation, Sister Dora Robison. 	Song,
Sister Phoebe Richens and others. Pioneer
Sketch, Sister Mary Robison, a pioneer.
Song, Brother and Sister Randall. Read-
ing, Sister Annie Galbraith. 	Song,
Brother O. G. Arnold. 	Remarks by
Brother Thomas Atkins.
The congregational singing was con-
ducted by Brother John Blackburn and
Brother David Robison officiated as chap-
lain. At the close of the exercises all par-
took of an excellent dinner prepared by the
sisters, after which the house was cleared
and the children enjoyed themselves in a
dance the remaining part of the afternoon.
The day closed with a grand ball in the 
Lyman Hall in the evening.
MARUETHA ATKINSON.


RED CROSS MEETS.
	The executive committee of the Red
Cross met at the state department today,
May 13. There were present Gen. John
M. Wilson, vice-president William F.
Michael, Mrs. John A. Logan, Miss Mabel
Bowman, Mrs. Warner, Mrs. Clara Sarah
Spencer and Secretary Briggs Miss Clara
Barton, the president is now en route for
St. Petersburg as a delegate to the Red
Cross convention there.
	After conferences with Secretary Hay
and Secretary Root, a delegation went
to the White House and conferred with
President Roosevelt, with the result that
the following appeal was issued tonight by
Vice-President Wilson.
RED CROSS APPEAL.
	The National American Red Cross ap-
peals to the people of the United States to
send money and supplies in aid of the
suffers at Martinque and St. Vincent. The
unparalleled calamity needs no words of
eloquence to arouse the active aid and
sympathy of our people. We therefore ask
you to act promptly and generously.
Money and supplies can be sent to Cornel-
ius Bliss of New York City, or money may
be sent direct to W. J. Flather, the treasur-
er of the American National Red Cross
Association, at Riggs bank, Washington.
All such contributions, whether in money
or supplies, intended for the Red Cross
should be so marked.
					John M. Wilson.
First Vice-President American National
	Red Cross.
	Dr. Richard Klopsch, proprietor of the
Christian Herald, New York, called at the
war department today offering to furnish
fifty nurses, thirty male and twenty female,
and 1,000 barrels of flour for the stricken
islands and to be contributed by the
Christian Herald.


The Empress of Japan takes a great in-
terest in all that concerns the nation, from
the rice crops upward and downward. The
Empress is said to have a talent for liter-
ature and to write beautiful poetry. A
poem of hers set to music is sung in the
schools all over the land.


108					Woman's Exponent

Woman's Exponent.
EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor and Publisher.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpanel
space one time $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office Room 507 Templeton, South Temple
Street: Business hours from 10 a. m. ,to 5 p. m., every
day, except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to
					Mrs. E. B. WELLS,
						Salt Lake City, Utah
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter. 

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, May 15, 1902.


[Column 1]
THIRTY VOLUMES.
	Perhaps there are only a few of our read-
ers who realize that it is now thirty years
since this little paper, the Woman’s
Exponent, first made its exit into the
world of thought and action. This num-
ber closes the thirtieth volume, and all
who are interested in the movement for
woman’s advancement and enfranchisement
cannot help thinking, how much they are
indebted to this little organ of ours for the
information and intelligence which has
been spread through its columns from time
to time ever since its first issue on the first
day of June, 1872.
	The women of Utah were among the
first to have a woman’s paper; at that time
there were but very few in the United
States and almost none elsewhere.
	The Woman’s Journal of Boston is only
three years and a half older, and is the one
woman’s paper which has continued dur-
ing all that period regularly.
	The Woman's Tribune, of Washington,
D. C., is a number of years behind the
“Exponent.”
	It really seems strange that the sisters
who ought to be deeply interested in the
“Exponent” should be apparently so
indifferent to its interest. It is impossible
to publish papers or books without money.
Recently we heard the editors of the
Woman’s Journal say they had been
obliged to put four thousand dollars more
into the Journal to help it along. There
have been before gifts made to that publi-
cation from rich people, which have helped
very materially. The Woman’s Journal
has an immense circulation because it is
non-sectarian and is maintained along such
lines as to make it very popular; whereas
the Womans Exponent is the organ of
our Latter-day Saint women and distinc-
tively the expression of women of our faith,
which has always been unpopular. Never-
theless our women have broad views on
general questions, such as suffrage and
higher education, yet the very fact that it
is a “Mormon” woman’s paper would
limit its circulation outside in the world;
consequently it must depend entirely upon
the patronage of our own people. Our
sisters should rally to its support and
help to make it a more desirable medium
of communication than it ever has been in
the past. It would be an easy matter if
the Relief Society officers everywhere
would advocate it earnestly; for the Relief
Society is the largest and strongest organ-
sation we have, and this is the paper that

[Column 2]
contains the general information needed
for their work. Whenever any celebration
is to be held among the women of Zion,
such as the anniversary of the first organ-
zation orPeace demonstrations,and the like,
then the “Exponent” is called in ques-
tion immediately. Silk culture, Fairs,
Bazars and the Suffrage cause, and in fact,
all progressive movements, have been pro-
moted through its pages. The sisters
scarcely comprehend what this little paper
has done for them during the last thirty
years; outside among the branches of the
Church in other countries and in places re-
mote it has rendered good service in the
cause of truth as well as in helping along
the organizations.
	Biographical sketches of the lives of
many of our good sisters have been pub-
lished from time to time, and the deaths of
hundreds whose good works have been
made known and their names thus perpetu-
ated. It has contained many testimonies
of the Gospel and its benefits and a large
number of minutes of the meetings and
conferences in the different Stakes of Zion
and in other parts of the world. All the
General Conferences of the Relief Society
have been published, and in fact, it is a
record of woman’s work and particularly of
the Relief Society.
	If the sisters could realize the importance
of having a paper of their own and the
prestige it gives to their work, surely they
would bestir themselves to obtain sub-
scriptions and make the paper so prosper-
ous that there could be no possible reason
for complaint as to irregularity.
	Let us hope for a more hopeful outlook
in the coming time so that such improve-
ments may be made as will keep pace with
the more modern times and better supply
the needs of the women now engaged in
the larger work of practical progression
and social uplifting of the masses of the
people, who are looking for light, knowl-
edge and wisdom that may help them in
their homes and to rear their families in
righteousness.


[Column 1]
FOUR SCORE YEARS.
	A happy anniversary celebration was
commemorated on Saturday, May 3, 1902,
in the handsome old parlors at the historic
Bee Hive House, the occasion being the
eightieth birthday anniversary of Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith, one of the most
noble mothers in Israel in this dispensa-
tion of the fulness of times in which many
noble women, as well as distinguished men
have taken part.
	Sister Smith occupies at the present time
the highest place of honor among the
Latter-day Saint women, president of the
Relief Society of the Church of Latter-day
Saints in all the world. It is therefore
most appropriate her name should be
known among our people, and honors ac-
corded her befitting the position she holds.
Aside from this she is greatly beloved for
her many virtues, integrity to the Gospel,
her faithfulness to its principles and her
many good works and deeds of mercy and
of love.
	A hundred or more invited guests as-
sembled about two or three in the after-
noon and offered congratulations, wishing
many happy returns of the day, and bring-
ing flowers and other gifts. A fine gold
watch chain was presented to her by the
sisters who work in the Temple. President

[Column 2]
Joseph F. Smith and his Counselors were
present, with members of their families,
also Bishop Wm. B. Preston and wife;
Patriarch John Smith and wife; Apostle
John Henry Smith and wife; Apostle
Hyrum M. Smith and wife; and some of
Sister Smith’s dearest friends, veteran
sisters among whom she has labored many
years; among these were Sisters M. Isa-
bella Horne and Jane S. Richards also
Sister Lucy W. Kimball and others.
	Sisters Hannah and Susan Smith, of her
husband’s family, and her own daughter
and husband, Brother and Sister Clarence
Merrill, with a number of granddaughters
and grandsons, their children and some
great grandchildren.
	A delicious feast was partaken of spread
upon small tables seating three or four
guests, and a genuine feeling of good
fellowship pervaded the happy groups.
President Joseph F. Smith pronounced the
blessing.
	After the supper tables were cleared
away there was a sort of impromptu pro-
gram of speeches and recitations; many of
the sisters who were called spoke in the
highest terms of praise of the guest of the
occasion, and of her labors in the family,
the home and the Church. President
Smith conducted the exercises and called
upon most of those present to express
themselves and all seemed to enter into
and partake of the goodly spirit and feeling
of the assembly. There was also some piano
music and singing, one or two humorous
recitations and sufficient variety to make the
time enjoyable.
	The EXPONENT adds its warmest con-
gratulations and good wishes, and hopes
and trusts Sister Bathsheba’s life may be
prolonged, until she is satisfied with her
mission here upon earth, and may the
many blessings she has bestowed upon
her fellow laborers be multiplied upon her
posterity, and her living example of faith-
fulness inspire not her children alone, but
all the youth of Israel to strive for right-
eousness and to be valiant for the truth.
	In thinking of Sister Smith one cannot
but recall the poet’s words:
	"Touch us gently, Time !
	Let us glide adown thy stream
	Gently, as we sometimes glide.
	Through a quiet dream.

	Humble voyagers are we
	O’er life’s dim unsounded sea,
	Seeking only some calm clime,
	Touch us gently, gentle Time.”

	Surely time has touched Sister Smith
gently, and yet her life has not been a
summer dream, but full of changes, rich
with experience from which she has gath-
ered much wisdom and happiness.


DISTINGUISHED WOMEN.
	Tuesday, May 13, the New York dele-
gation of women who had been in Los
Angeles attending the Biennial of the
Federation of Clubs, paid a flying visit to
Salt Lake City on their homeward trip.
	Arrangements had been made before-
hand to entertain them by committees ap-
pointed from the two great organizations of
women, viz., the Relief Society and Y. L.
N. M. I. A., and the plans formulated
were carried out very successfully, except
that the R. R. train was two hours late.
However they were met at the station by a
number of ladies in carriages and escorted
to the Tabernacle and listened to the Re-


cital given in their honor, Professor J. J.
McClellan organist. The music rendered
included Guilmont’s “Third Organ Sona-
ta,” the popular “Baccherini Minuet,”
Mendelssohn’s “SpringSong,” “Schubert’s
Litany,” Batiste’s “Communion in G” and
the overture to Lohengrin. These were
all given in the most excellent style and
raptuiously received. There were also
two celebrated vocalists, Miss Emma Lucy
Gates and Mr. Heber S. Goddard.
	Miss Gates sang the “Ave Maria” from
the “Cavaleria Rusticana,” and responded
to an encore with “Sing Sweet Bird.”
Mr. Goddard sang, in his very best style,
Nevin’s “Divine Redeemer.”
	The ride to Saltair was the next part of
the program fcr the entertainment of the
celebrated guests. At 2:15 the party were
aboard the train and headed for Saltair, a
very cheerful company chatting and mak-
ing acquaintance with the visitors. There
were many more of the strangers than of
the Salt Lake people; among these, how-
ever, were President Brigham Young and
wife and Attorney General Breeden and
wife, also President Bathsheba W. Smith
and Mrs. Joseph F. Smith, wife of the
President of the Church, and members of
the General Board of the Relief Society
and of the Y. L. N. M. I. A. Mrs. Wm.
Tod Helmuth, President of the National
Council of Women, Mrs.T.St.John’sGaffney
Honorary President of the National Council
of Women, and her daughter, Jayta
Humphreys, and their special friends were
the principal members of the party, for
whom we had arranged, but we were
very pleased indeed to meet the newly
elected President of the General Federation
Mrs. Denison, of New York, and also Mrs.
Cynthia W. Alden, President-General of the
Sunshine Society, was with the party, and
was gladly welcomed by us. A few of the
ladies enjoyed a bath in the Lake, though
the temperature was very cold. The other
members of the party walked about talking
and admiring the beautiful scenery until
the call for train.
	In the evening an elaborate reception
was held at the residence of Mr. and Mrs.
Alonzo E. Hyde to which all the ladies were
invited. The parlors and dining room
were profusely though tastefully decorated
with flowers and trailing vines, lovely
lilacs, white and lavender, and on the
table were delicate vases filled with carna-
tions, adding beauty and brilliancy to the
picture. The young girls who served the
ces and cake were daintily attired in light
fabrics and made their part of the program
charmingly interesting. Mrs. Helmuth
and Mrs. Gaffney stood to receive the entire
evening with Mrs. Hyde, the hostess, and
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs. E. B.
Wells, Mrs. Maria Y. Dougall and Mrs.
Susa Young Gates. The guests were
President Joseph F. Smith and wife, also
President Anthon H. Lund, Apostle John
Henry Smith and Apostle Heber J. Grant
and wife, Secretary Hammond and wife
and other noted people of the city. The
ladies left early in order to take the train.
	Since then news has reached here that
Dr. Wm. Tod Helmuth died suddenly in
New York City while his wife was en route
the telegram reaching Mrs. Helmuth at
Denver. We extend to Mrs. Helmuth our
most sincere sympathy in her sad bereave-
ment and pray the Lord to bless and com-
fort her and give her strength to endure
this trying ordeal.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
		CHICAGO SWEAT SHOPS.
The most thorough investigation ever
made of the “sweatshops” of Chicago has
been completed under the auspices of the
University of Chicago The department
of sociology assigned Miss Nellie Mason
Auten, a graduate student, to the task,
and after many months of labor she has
made a remarkably thorough report on the
conditions of the men and women in the
sweatshops of the garment trade in
Chicago, and summarizing clearly the
prices paid by contractors and wholesale
dealers. One of her most startling state-
ments is that wages of these employees are
steadily falling.
	Miss Auten is a graduate of Wellesley
College, who came to Chicago to carry on
her studies in economics and sociology, and
her interest in vital questions concerning
industrial conditions led her to consent to
undertake a personal investigation of the
sweatshops, where is carried on the mak-
ing of boys’ and mens’ suits, cloaks and
other garments. Miss Auten says that she
recognizes the ethical questions involved
in the situation, but that she has presented
visible conditions rather than any solution
of the problem, and it is her presentation
of the subject which makes her work of
value to society, and especially to Chicago.
	“Sweating” is the unpleasantly sugges-
tive term applied to the work done for
some tailor or wholesaler under conditions
which allow a maximum amount of work
per day to be performed for a minimum
wage, and under which the ordinary rules
of health and comfort are disregarded.
And “sweatshops” are usually tenement
houses, kitchens or bedrooms “in which
the head of the family employs outsiders.”
Miss Auten says that “in Chicago at the
present time conditions are not so bad as
they might be,” and then she goes on to
say that many of the sweatshops are in
the back tenements or stables, where there
is practically no yard space and no possi-
bility of sunshine or fresh air. In one case
which Miss Auten discovered on the
Northwest Side there was “a court fifteen
or twenty feet square surrounded on all
sides by buildings four stories high. Heaps
of dirty snow lay massed on the ground,
too much shut off from the sun to melt and
disappear. The only entrance to the court
was by narrow sidewalks along the front ten-
ement. The narrow spaces between the
four buildings only served to make the court
more dismal. One felt almost as if shut
up in some dungeon of an earlier age, and
breathed a sigh of relief on returning to the
freer air and outlook of the street.”
	Seldom did she find proper sanitary ac-
commodations, and often in the coldest
weather, she found the rooms stiflingly
close but entirely unheated. Some of the
shops are in basements, where the evils are
even more exaggerated because of the bad
air and worse darkness.
		IN NATIONAL GROUPS.
	The garment trade is divided between
five nationalities—the Italians, Scandi-
navians, Bohemians, Jews and Poles—and
each nationality has its own territory and
usually its own peculiar development of
the sweating system.
	The Italians stand lowest in the scale of
living and scale of wages they are “more
squalid and filthy and more crowded than
any of the other nationalities.” In 1897
there were reported to be 6,773 Italians in

[Column 2]
Chicago, and about three per cent worked
at the garment trade under the most ter-
rible conditions. And at that time thirty
were reported to come to their work from
homes where there had been contagious
diseases—smallpox and diphtheria. The
garments they were making were sent as
usual to wholesale dealers and department
stores. Nearly three-fourths of these
Italians were employed only part of the
year, the average time of employment
being about thirty-one weeks out of the
fifty-two. And the number of hours’
work per day varied from eight to sixteen.
The rate of pay per hour is something un-
believable Many worked for five cents an
hour and never was the rate higher than
twenty five cents an hour.
		SEVEN CENTS A DAY.
	One Italian woman worked ten hours a
day, six days in the week, and made 40
cents per week (a rate of two-thirds of a
cent an hour) and she could make $21 a
year. Another woman, a pants finisher
worked eleven hours per day and made 30
cents a week. Many of the workers made
less than a dollar a week, many more were
earning less than $100 a year, and in many
families the whole income was from $100
to $200.
	The Swedes in the garment trade live,
for the most part, on the North Side; and
conditions are not so extreme because of
the unions, which help to keep up the
wages. Miss Auten reviews the demand
made by the union—a nine hour day; the
Saturday half holiday in July and August;
a fixed scale of wages for piece work or
for work by the week ($8 or $10 for women
and $12 or $15 for pressers and hand-
sewers.) These demands were granted for
the year March 1, 1900 to March 1, 1901.
	The Custom Vest Tailor’s Protective
Association has a membership of thirty
contractors and they do not employ any
non-union men. These contractors or
middlemen, are in turn the employees of
wholesalers and department store owners, as
well as of the custom tailors, and last
winter the contractors sent a petition to
their employers asking a rise in the prices
paid for vests, because of the rise in the
price of silk and because of the demands
made upon them in turn by their em-
ployees. The petition was granted and
everything ran smoothly.
	Miss Auten visited a cooperative tailor
shop, where several tailors shared in the
expenses, though each one was working for
a different merchant tailor. She says, each
one pays $3 a month rent, and about $1 a
week for silk, car fare and other incidentals.
*   *   * In the busy months each man
makes two coats a week by working from
twelve to sixteen hours a day, and earns
from $8 to $13 a week. One of them, a
Finlander, said it was not unusual for a
man to work all night to fill a special
order. The eyes of three of the six men
in the shop were much inflamed and their
backs were bent.”
	The custom and journeymen tailors as a
rule work in their own homes and provide
their machines.
	The Bohemians are probably second to
the Swedes. They live in the district
bounded on the south and west by Eigh-
teenth Street and Blue Island Avenue—the
did “Sixth Ward.” Ninety-five per cent
of the shops front on the alley, without
light in the back, and many are over or


[Column 1]
near stables. The Bohemians make coats,
pants and overcoats. Foot power machines
are used and the work is reported as pretty
steady. The wages range from $1 to $12
a week—few of the operators, however,
making as much as $12. The Bohemians
stand by their union and are soberly in-
dustrious.
	The condition of the Jews, who live in
the district bounded by Polk and Fifteenth
streets, Stewart and Blue Island Avenue,
are to all appearances worse than the
Bohemians. They are crowded and dirty
and work day and night.
	A step lower than the Jews are the
Poles who are scattered throughout the
city. The average wage of the machine
operators among the Poles was $8 the hand
workers, $4; the pressers $9.75; and the
home finishers, 3.25

WAGES FALLING STEADILY.
	Miss Auten has taken up the change in
wages and prices during the last few years
and she has found it worthy a detailed re-
port. For instance, a contractor gets 20
cents for a child’s coat, and out of the
amount he must pay for the making and
get his profit! For a coat he gets 80 cents
where five years ago he received $1.25 and
ten years ago as much as $1 50; for cloaks
and suits he gets from $1 to $1.40. One con-
tractor gets eight cents a pair for knee pants,
and that is less than last year. And yet at
these prices the contractors in many cases
make a good living without much effort.
Prices in coats are one-half of what they
were a few years ago, and the Bohemian
coat makers find the prices still slipping.
	Miss Auten supplemented her personal
investigation by a careful study of the
immediate causes and also by a study of
the legislative position of Illinois and work
done by the Consumers’ league and kindred
organizations. The united Hebrew Chari-
ities has offered some interesting statistics.
About 6 per cent of the 1,918 cases studied
in 1898 were cases of want among sweat-
shop workers, and 8 per cent of the men
who applied for work at the employment
bureau were garment workers.
	The most generally recognized causes of
the abuses and maladjustments in these in-
dustries, Miss Auten says, are the absence
of American ideas and sympathies—a
statement which she explains by saying
that when the immigrants come from the
crowded labor markets of Europe they
have no money to get farther than New
York and their necessity makes it easy for
American employers to get their work at
the lowest price, especially as they crowd
the labor market of New York.
	She speaks, too, of the illiteracy not only
in English but in their native languages.
This illiteracy is undoubtedly due to the
guiding principles of the countries from
which they come, whereby they are kept
in ignorance because of their economic de-
pendence. Miss Auten does not discuss
the larger economical phases except where
she says: “The sweating system surely
works in two directions: If it is true that
the people are poor because their wages are
low, it is equally true that their wages are
low because they are poor.”

UNCERTAIN SEASONS.
“Another set of causes has its rise in the
character of the industry. The garment
trades are seasonable industries—that is,
there are certain months in the year when a

[Column 2]
great deal of work must be done and other
months in which there is almost no work.
This alternate rush and quiet are, in turn,
due to the change in fashions, which can
best be explained by the economic pressure
on competing dry goods and tailoring
establishments which have to bring about
an artificial desire for change in clothes in
order to stimulate trade. The most de-
plorable result of this uncertain activity is
found in the long hours of the tailor and
the excessive haste of the home finisher,
who knows that if he or she does not get
the finished garments back to the contrac-
tor on time there will be no work forth-
coming for the future—for there are always
men and women ready to step in and
promise punctuality.
	Still another cause is the minute division
of labor; one man sews seams, another
makes buttonholes, etc , and none of the
work takes long to learn. Therefore a
change of employees is made easy for the
contractor who, when asked for higher
wages, says: “Go, if you please; I can find
some one else who will gladly work for
less.” And all that is needed in this industry
is “a small room, a few sewing machines
and people.
	Miss Auten classes as a fourth set of
causes the attitude of manufacturer, con-
tractor, landlord and consumer. “They
all,” she says, “to a greater or less degree
have a happy, or rather unhappy, feeling
of irresponsibility, and often a sordid de
sire for individual profit.” The manu-
facturer feels it no affair of his how the
work is done. The contractor is pressed
to keep his contracts and feels no interest
in the conditions under which his employ-
ees work. The landlord is content to get
the most rent he can without asking ques-
tions. The consumer is always ready for
bargains. And so it is the man, unedu-
cated. perhaps unskilled, has to say: “Yes,
I must keep on working, even though my
back is breaking and my eyes will scarcely
stay open, for my wife and the little ones
must have bread, and I must work now if
it kills, for soon there will be no work to
do.” And there are 35,853 such workers
in the garment trades in Chicago.

HOPE IN FACTORIES.
	Miss Auten looks forward to a “gradual
displacement of the small shop and the
system of home work by the factory sys-
tem.” However, such a displacement
does not seem imminent, for if the work
can be done at present on the present basis
of low wages, and no commensurable ex-
pense—outside of rents and sewing mach
ines—it would hardly be considered a good
business move to make a change. 
	Besides laying stress on the improved
conditions which large factories would
make possible, Miss Auten recommends an
education of the classes of workers in
cleanliness and ventilation. When work-
ing twelve and sixteen hours a day and
keeping windows closed to save coal they
can hardly be expected to feel much inter-
est in their health or appearance. She also
recommends the organization of unions
wherever practicable.
	In considering how these changes are to
be brought about Miss Auten mentions the
possibility of federal legislation because of
the widespread character of the industry.
There are only twelve or fifteen states
which have any factory legislation and
what there is, is entirely inadequate to the

[Column 3]
conditions. She thinks that restriction of
immigration might well be the first measure
undertaken.
	“Illinois passed her first factory in-
spection laws in 1893. They provide that
all garments shall not be manufactured in
living rooms, except by members of the
immediate families; that all shops shall be
kept clean and free from vermin and con-
tagion.” Besides they provided for the
destruction of clothing found where there
was contagion, that no child under 14
should be employed; that affidavits for any
child between 14 and 16 must be signed by
parent or guardian; and that women could
not be employed more than eight hours a
day. Illinois has only a small force of
eleven factory inspectors, and the open
violation of these legislative enactments is
most common. The appropriation in
llinois in 1897 was $15,000--one-fourth of
what New York appropriates, and less
than one-sixth of what Massachusetts has.

SOCIALISM AS A REMEDY.
	After suggesting several other palliatives
Miss Auten says: “Closely related with
those who expect much from organization
of the workers are those who feel that the
whole existing order of society is unjust,
and that the remedy is socialism, a state of
society in which each man shall have
just what he produces, no more, no less.
It is undoubtedly true that at present there
is a class who do little or nothing to add to
the sum total of the world’s goods and yet
who have most. It is also true that many
of those who work hardest have least.
Something is wrong if these conditions can
exist, and whether or not the solution lies
in the inauguration of the socialistic state
it is a serious question whether, if it is
true that each person has a ‘right to be
himself such as he is,’ he has not also the
right to have undiminished that which he
produces.” However, Miss Auten does
not wish to be regarded as desiring a
“violent subversion of existing society,”
but rather urges that all concerned---manu-
facturer, contractor, distributor and con-
sumer---should be made to feel their re-
sponsibility. She does not point out how
this may be done, but she is hopeful that
through such organizations as the Con-
sumers’ League, through assimilation and
education of the workers, and a general
raising of ethical standards much might be
accomplished.
	Miss Auten’s report is to be published in
the American Journal of Sociology, issued
by the University of Chicago, and the
faculty are confident it will attract wide
attention from students of sociology.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MEETING OF THE EXECUTIVE COMMIT-
TEE OF THE INTERNATIONAL
COUNCIL OF WOMEN.
To be held at Copenhagen Denmark, probably
on July 10 and 11, 1902.
AGENDA.
Reading, correction and approval of
	minutes of last meeting.
Correspondence.
Roll call.
Report of Corresponding Secretary.
Report of Treasurer.
Report of Sub-committee on Finance.
	Peace and Arbitration. Laws concern-
	ing the Domestic Relations. Press.
	Council Badges.


Reports from National Councils.
Report of year’s work from the president.
Any business carried over from last year.
New Business.
Election of Patrons.
Permission to be granted to Conveners of
	Standing Committees to attend Execu-
	tive Sessions held prior to the session
	of 1904 without a vote. Proposal to
	form a new Cooperative Committee on
	Internationalism. Recommendation
	that International Societies be allowed
	affiliation with the International Coun-
	cil.
Consideration of the President’s latest
	Memorandum and her Report.
	[From the office of Susa Young Gates,
Chairman Press Committee, National
Council of Women, Provo City, Utah.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


BIOGRAPHY AND RESOLUTIONS.
	Sketch and resolutions of respect to the memory
of Sister Wilmirth Greer East, daughter of N. H.
and Nancy Greer, who after an illness of upwards
of five years passed from this sphere to the “Great
Beyond,” March 31, 1902, at Pima, Arizona.
	Sister East was born in Decalb Co., Georgia,
November 18, 1824. Was baptized a member of
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
July 22, 1854, at Fort Sullivan, Texas, and was
married to Edward W. East at the age of fifteen.
She was the mother of eleven children, three of
whom survive her.
	In the early morning of September 11, 1854,
while lying in bed, praying to God for a convinc-
ing testimony for some of her relatives, the
gift of tongues rested upon her. She arose,
walked into the front yard and commenced speak-
ing. Before she had finished talking, which was
about fifteen minutes, many of the neighbors as
well as relatives had assembled and listened
eagerly to the inspired words as they fell from her
lips, she interpreting the same.
	In June, 1855, in company with her husband
and other emigrants she left her home in Texas
for Salt Lake City, arriving there in September of
the same year, where they resided for twenty-two
years, during which time she labored diligently
and faithfully in many positions of trust as a
Relief Society officer.
	Sister East accompanied her husband on a mis-
sion to Texas in 1872, where she bore a strong
testimony of the truth to many who had never be-
fore heard the Gospel.
	Brother East and family moved to Apache Co.,
Arizona, in June, 1877, where she held the re-
sponsible position of Stake president of the Relief
Society until 1882, when she and her family went
to the Gila. Here she was sustained as president
of the Relief Society of the St. Joseph Stake of
Zion when it was first organized in June, 1882,
and worked with undaunted energy for the cause
of truth and righteousness, ever having in mind
the welfare of her sister associates, until in the
winter of 1898 she was, through physical disabili-
ty, unable longer to perform the duties of presi-
dent.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Resolved, That we, her colaborers in the great
work of love, express our appreciation of her
counsel, her example and her love of the divine,
which were manifested so prominently in all her
labors, and which we have enjoyed by our associa-
tion with her.
	That we, the members of the Relief Society of
St. Joseph Stake, emulate her noble traits of
character, of faith and charity, and her devotion
to her religion.
	That we insert a copy of these resolutions in our
records, that one be sent to the WOMAN’S
EXPONENT for publication and that one be placed
in the hands of the bereaved family.
			MARY L. RANSOM,
			SARAH WEBB.
				Committee.
Pima, Arizona, May 9, 1902.


ESSAY ON RELIEF SOCIETY WORK.
	This great and noble work was organized
at Nauvoo March 17, 1842, by the
Prophet Joseph Smith. It has grown and
increased until now there are over thrirty


thousand members. The organization of
the Relief Society consists of a president
and two counselors, secretary, treasurer,
teachers and members.
	The duties of the teachers are to visit
the homes of the members and non mem-
bers, for the purpose of finding out if any
are in need, or who are sick amongst us, to
administer to their wants and to aid them
spiritually and temporally. So much de-
pends upon the correct reports being
brought by the teachers of the districts
they visit before any special benefit can be
derived from the society. The purpose of
this society is to comfort the poor, re-
lieve the destitute, sustain the widow and
the orphan. What brings greater joy and
satisfaction than to know you are doing
something to help one who is cast down or
who has perhaps fallen by the wayside.
Every kind word spoken gives you courage
and ability to speak another. Every act
of assistance rendered by you through the
knowledge that you possess to aid one of
your fellow beings gives you greater abili-
ty to aid the next one. Good acts grow
upon a person. I have sometimes thought
that many people—judging from their
utter lack of kindness and of a disposition
to aid others—imagine that if they were to
say or do a kind thing it would destroy
their capacity to perform a kind act or
say a kind word in the future. Don’t go
through life with your lips sealed against
words of kindness and encouragement nor
your hearts sealed against performing
labors for another. Make it a motto in life
always to try and assist some one else to
carry his burden. The true way to happi-
ness in life is to labor for the happiness of
others.
	I pity the selfish who have never exper-
enced the joy which comes to those who
receive the thanks and gratitude of the
people whom they may have aided in the
struggle of life.
	The secret of success in our society de-
pends upon unity in our midst; where there
unity there is strength. If we acquire the
habit of fault finding our influence is
weakened. Each member should feel it
her duty to carry out every obligation de-
pending upon her, hence she will gain
greater satisfaction to herself and her
labors would be appreciated by those
placed over her. If we are faithful, diligent
and prayerful, the Lord will bless our
efforts.
	“Let us then be up and doing,
	With a heart for any fate.
	Still achieving, still pursuing.
	Learn to labor and to wait.”
ANNIE GRIFFITHS.


[Column 1]
NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN.
NOTES.
	Mrs. William Tod Helmuth, representa-
tive of the National Council at the Feder-
ation of clubs in Los Angeles, was en-
tertained by the Local Council of Women
of San Francisco, which Council has for its
head Mrs. Mary Wood Swift, the recently
chosen vice-president of the National
Council.
	The Local Council of San Francisco,
though only a few months old, is most
healthy and vigorous, having thirty organ-
izations affiliated with it and more coming
in at every meeting. Recently they have
been engaged in developing two important

[Column 2]
lines of work: they are pushing forward
the movement to establish School Saving
Banks; and their second effort is in the line
of the Consumers’ League work. They
have recently been visited by Mrs. Florence
Kelly, who has stirred up the Local
Council, and therefore the women of San
Francisco, on the subject of sweat-shops
and general injustice to the small wage
earner.
	The National Christian League for the
Promotion of Social Purity is devoting
much of its time at present to the Peace
Demonstration work. A conference of this
League was held at All Souls’ Church on
May 1, in New York at which many sub-
jects of vital interest were discussed by the
ablest speakers. Much of the serious and
interesting matter was forgotten by the
light-minded in the sensational which at-
tached to the question asked by Mrs.
Lauterback. The question was, “To
what limit should wives submit to
beating?”
	The Social Culture Club of New York,
which is connected with the Christian
League, entertained on the 6th of May the
distinguished poet and author, Edwin
Markham, who spoke on “Individuality
and some Individuals.” The home of
Mrs. Elizabeth B. Grannis, at which the
function was held was crowded with
earnest listeners on this delightful occasion.
	The Supreme Temple of the Rathbone,
Sisters holds its Biennial session the second
week in August, in San Francisco. A
special excursion is arranged from Chicago
to San Francisco for this Biennial. A
most attractive itinerary has been provided.
Mrs. Dell P. Glazier is the Supreme Chief
of this Order.
	Mrs. Josephine Silone Yates, president
of the National Association of Colored
Women, has been filling in the months of
March and April with a lecturing trip from
Washington to Philadelphia, Chicago,
Cleveland, Detroit and St. Louis, and
visiting all her associations in these and
other cities; and she has carried to them a
minute report of the work done at the late
Triennial, and has given them renewed
hope and courage along all the lines of
their work by acquainting them with the
wide field for improvment which exists for
them as well as for all other women in the
National Council and its international
work.
	At the Quinquenninal in London three
years ago, the battle of the American
Revolution was re-fought on psychic lines;
it was the old struggle between republican-
ism and aristocracy, and the former won
the day, so that now the flag of inter-
nationalism is broad enough to cover every
woman in every land or clime, whatever
her color or social standing may be.
	At Los Angeles has been fought again
the Civil War of the Rebellion—as in the
former case along psychic lines. But vic-
tory has perched on the Banner of Retro-
gression. Civilization and light have
reached a point, especially on American
soil, where a backward movoment, such as
that one made at Los Angeles, must neces-
sarily result in the failure, destruction and
dissolution of the forces once so compact
and strong. It is a commentary on social
womanhood and club organizations as com-
pared with the democratic and working


forces of womanhood which are enfolded
within the lines of the National Council of
Women.
	The Fifth Annual Convention of the
Nurses’ Associated Alumnie was held the
first week in May in Chicago. A number
of distinguished speakers graced the occa-
sion, among them being Miss Linda Rich-
ards, Mrs. Bedford Fenwick, Miss L. L.
Dock, Miss G. C. Ross, Miss M. Helena
McMillian and Miss Ann L. Pearse. The
convention was entertained at luncheon by
the Chicago Alumnea, and there was also
a reception tendered by the St Barnabas
Guild for Nurses, beside the one given at
St. Luke’s Home for Nurses. This asso-
ciation grows rapidly in numbers and inter-
est, and is the affiliated society in the
American Federation of Nurses, which
recently entered the National Council.
	The Local Council of Rochester, N. Y.,
as might naturally be supposed, is wrestling
with suffrage problems: what woman that
dwelt within the confines of that city, the
home of Miss Susan B. Anthony, could
fail to be interested in any question so
much as in the question of suffrage? Just
now this Council has centered all its forces
on obtaining School Suffrage for women.
	The Local Council of Portland, Me.,
which has been in active existence for ten
years and which has an average member-
ship of three thousand, has recently moved
out of private quarters into a public hall
for its monthly meetings. This Council is
in communication with the Local Council
of New Zealand and exchanges papers and
Year Books with mutual advantage This
Council is so close to Canada that much
interest is felt in the splendid work done
by the women of Canada.
	There is a movement originating in
Philadelphia, for the establishment of a
Pan-Racial Congress. Some very eminent
men are connected with the movement. It
is an endeavor to bring into harmonious
relations, on broad lines, the various races
of this earth. The president of the Con-
gress is Mr. J. P. Jones, of 261 North
Sixth St., Philadelphia, Pa. This gentle-
man recently wrote to Mrs. May Wright
Sewall saying that they had decided to ap-
point a Board of Lady Managers to co-oper-
ate with the men engaged in this work;
but, in accordance with her suggestion,
they have determined to include women in
the personnel of the Board itself. Mrs.
Sewall has accepted the position on this
Board. Further developments of this
movement will be watched with interest.
	Mrs. May Wright Sewall has recently
received a request for literature of the
National Council and its work, from far-off
Turkey in Asia, the applicant being Man-
sug Khidichian, of the town of Kerassunde.
	[From the office of Susa Young Gates,
Chairman Press Committee, National Coun-
cil of Women, Provo City, Utah.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. K. THOMAS DRY GOODS CO.
	67 69, 71 Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.
WE ARE IN OUR NEW STORE and solicit your patronage. We aim to give you as
	much as possible for you money.					TRY US

[Column 2]
Save Your Money!
	And when you get a dollar, deposit it
	with Zion’s Savings Bank & Trust
	Company, the oldest and largest savings
	bank in Utah.
		Since the establishment of the bank
	we have opened more than 19,000 sav-
	ings accounts.
		The laws of Utah permit married
	women and also children who are minors
	to open savings accounts in their own
	name, subject to their own order. Have
	you such an account? If not, open
	one NOW.
		We pay FOUR PER CENT IN-
	TEREST on any amount from one dol-
	lar to thousands, and compute said
	interest four times a year.
WRITE for any information desired.
			LORENZO SNOW, Prest.
			GEORGE M. CANNON, Cashier.
Nos. 1-3-5 Main Street.


[Column 1]
UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB.
FIRST DECADE OF ITS ORGANIZATION.
	The January meeting, 1898, was held at
the home of Mrs Belle Bunnell. Mrs. Camil-
la C. Cobb and Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams
were received as members. Three members
were appointed on the Education committee,
namely: Dr. Orielle Curtis, Helen V. Kim-
ball and Hattie Harker. A letter was read
from Mrs. Martha Y. Jennings suggesting
that the club join the General Federation.
After some discussion it was moved, seconded
and carried by unanimous vote that the club
join that body. Mrs. I. Cameron Brown was
elected a delegate to the meeting of the
General Federation to be held in Denver,
and Mrs. Rachel Miller as alternate. The
program of the evening was on Germany.
One paper was on the German Empire,
another one on notable men and one on
notable women. A German song by Mrs.
Camilla C. Cobb. Recitation, “The Earl
King,” by Mrs. Bunnell. German refresh-
ments were served at the close of the meet-
ing.
	The February meeting was held by invita-
tion at the home of Dr. Ellis R. Shipp, who
had so pleasantly entertained the club on
many occasions. 
	At the March meeting Mrs. Luella Rhodes
was admitted to membership. By unan-
imous vote Mrs. Laura Hyde was elected
alternate director in the State Federation,
Mrs. L. S. Dickinson being absent. A letter
was read from the Woman’s Club, asking
that a representative be sent to meet with
them in a club council for the discussion of
important questions of interest. Mrs. Ruth
M. Fox was sent as such representative. The
question of the traveling libraries came up
and one dollar was sent toward the establish-
ment. Mrs. Lawler was admitted a mem-
ber. A motion was made by Mrs. E. B.
Wells and carried unanimously, that the club
subscribe five dollars for charter membership
in the George Washington Memorial Asso-
ciation. In the Woman’s Council of Clubs
the Press Club was given the appointment of
secretary, from its membership. Mrs. Mar-
garet A Caine was given the appointment.
	On the 19th of March a special meeting
was held for the purpose of discussing the
life and writings of F. Marion Crawford, the
celebrated author. President R. B. Pratt
stated that this world-famed writer would
visit Salt Lake City in the coming week and
it was the desire of the Press Club to enter-
tain him. General arrangements were made.
Mrs. L. D. Alder gave a paper on the auth-
or’s life and work. Mrs. M. J. Lambert
gave a list of his works. Vice-President
Susa Y. Gates was a visitor at this meeting
and added to the literary interest in F. Mar-
ion Crawford’s works
	The Press Club gave a grand reception at
the Bee Hive House to Mr. Crawford and
Major Pond, who accompanied him. Most
of the noted women of the Salt Lake clubs
attended. It was quite a brilliant and social
affair. Conversation and introductions were
interspersed with charming musical selections
both vocal and instrumental.

[Column 2]
	At the April meeting Mrs. Margaret A.
Caine was officially appointed a delegate to
the Council of Women’s Clubs. The burn-
ing question of the hour, the situation be- 
tween Spain and America owing to the
blowing up of the Maine in the harbor of
Havanna, whereby nearly three hundred
American citizens had been ruthlessly hurled
out of the world in times of peace, was fully
discussed. Public feeling had been aroused
to a dangerous degree in the United States
and clamored for war and revenge. Presi-
dent R. B. Pratt gave an address carefully
summing up the situation. Mrs. L. D.
Alder read a scathing poem from her own
pen on the same subject, entitled,
“Hespania.”
	At the May meeting Mrs. Kate B. Ander-
son was received as a member. A paper
was read by Mrs. Rhodes on the Royal
Family of Spain, and her present gener-
als. Mrs. M. J. Lambert in her paper on
current events, included letters from women’s
organizations concerning the war, and a
mother’s most pathetic letter, whose son was
killed on the Maine.
	The June meeting was a continuation of
the war sentiment, and a most stirring ad-
dress on the subject was given by Dr. Orielle
Curtis, which was afterwards published in
the Deseret News. “Women rally to the
standard, free your sister woman in down-
trodden Cuba,” was the burden of her
thrilling speech. The spirit of war stalked
over the lands, even the children were crying
for retribution for the killed of the Maine.
	At the September meeting Mrs. E. B.
Wells and Mrs. M. A. Caine were appointed
a committee to attend to the business of in-
corporating the club.
	In October the annual meeting was held
at the home of Mrs. L. B. Bunnell. The re-
port of the incorporating committee was laid
on the table. Mrs. Ella W. Hyde was
elected president with a full corps of officers.
The late queen of Denmark and some of her
descendants was taken up. The speakers
were Helen Vilate Kimball and Lydia D.
Alder. Next the Dreyfus case was discussed.
Miss Kimball read a number of clippings
concerning it and a continuation was deter-
mined upon. All the world were anxiously
watching this most intricate case. Then the
brilliant lights were extinguished and in the
glow of the soft grate fires Mrs. Ruth M.
Fox related some very thrilling Halloween
stories.
			(Continued.)

