R. S. REPORTS
CASTLE DALE.
	March 17, was a day of great rejoicing
to the sisters of Castle Dale, as we had the
pleasure of having with us Professor
B. Cluff, of the B. Y. Academy, Stake
President Miller and Bishop Jensen of our
ward. Professor Cluff gave some excel-
lent instructions in regard to teaching
children and duties devolving upon the
sisters in general. President Miller spoke
very encouragingly to the sisters of the
Relief Society. Bishop Jensen also made
a few good remarks.
	This being the annual day a short program
was prepared and rendered on this occasion.
After the program refreshments were
served. Everybody felt highly en-
couraged and went home rejoicing.
	Castle Dale Relief Society is in good
condition and the sisters enjoy the com-
panionship of the WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
	Yours truly,
		KAROLINE A. LARSEN, Pres.
		KATHINKA ANDERSON, Sec.
REORGANIZATION OF RELIEF SOCIETY.
	Hearing from President Virginia F.
Major that she was going to give in her
resignation at the meeting to be held on
Thursday, May 3, I took the morning train
for that place, having a strong desire to be
present at the meeting. The cause of her
resignation was that her husband and fam-
ily were about to move to Thatcher, Arizona.
	Many and sincere were the good wishes
expressed, that they might be blest and
prospered in building up for themselves a
new home. My heart was rendered sad
at thought of her going from our Stake, for
I had truly learned to love her sweet and
congenial spirit, and had ever found her
faithful and energetic in the discharge of
every known duty, leaving the affairs of the
society in good condition.
	The bishopric of the ward were present
at the meeting, each one of them speaking
in the highest terms of praise and com-
mendation of the retiring president and her
family.
	Sister Majors said she would like the
privilege of seeing the next presiding
officer elected. So Bishop Layton put be-
fore the meeting the name of Sister Emma
Corbridge as president of the society. She
was unanimously sustained in that position.
She selected as her counselors Sister Mary
Ann Egbert and Sister Rose W. Layton,
who were also unanimously sustained.
	After remarks by the newly elected
officers, they were blest and set apart under
the hands of the Bishop and his counselors.
	Sister Olive S. Corbridge is their very
able secretary, so that I feel satisfied that
the society of West Layton Ward in the
Davis Stake of Zion is still in the best
of working order. And may the blessings
of union, love and prosperity attend them,


[Column 1]
and not only them, but all who are engaged
in Relief Society work. 
SUSAN GRANT, Stake President.

