		     NEW YORK CITY.

	The Annual Meetings of the General
Society of the Daughters of the Revolution,
held in New York City, Monday and
Tuesday, April 23rd and 24th, 1900, were
of an interesting character and well attended
by members from almost all parts of the
country, and the usual routine business of
such gatherings was transacted.
	A preliminary meeting was held jn the
Society’s headquarters, and a nominating
committee elected, to prepare a ticket, etc.
The public meetings convened in the same
building, situated on Fifth Avenue and
corner of 20th Street, a large and commo-
dious hall, handsomely decorated for the
occasion, with the stars and stripes taste-
fully draped and pictures of heroes and
heroines, etc. Each state was designated
by a banner with the name, and all dele-
gates were supplied with badges.
	The President General, Mrs. Henry
Sanger Snow occupied the chair. She is a
very charming woman and has completely
won the hearts of all the Daughters who
have been associated with her during her
term of office. Her address was very bril-
lian and concise, dealing with facts in a
very gentle and persuasive manner, and
was specially significant of the work in
hand.
	The society moves as smoothly as the
sun and his satellites toward one common
object Loyalty and patriotic effort are al-
ways the general aim. Everywhere in
local chapters and State societies the gener-
al work has gone on with unity, strength
and enthusiasm of purpose. We have come
together to transact the most important
business in our societies life—to elect the
officers who are to carry on the work of the
organization for the two coming years. In
the fulfillment of this duty we are to per-
mit nothing of local or personal prejudice
and jealousy to influence us, and we are to
accept with the fullest loyalty the expres-
sion of the general will, whatever our in-
dividual disappointment may be.
	The Recording Secretary General in a
very gracious and appropriate speech
made the presentation of a “Loving Cup,”
the gift of the Society at large, which Mrs.
Snow responded to in a very brief but affec-
tionate and particularly happy manner.
	Reports from other General Officers fol-
lowed this part of the exercises, most of
them very brief, relating to each one’s own
department of work. We noted the His- 
torian General mentioned her report from
the Utah Historian, who looked after her
domestic affairs, managed her home, was a
member of the Legislature and had a baby
four months old; this elicited considerable
applause.
	These reports extended into the afternoon
and after they were finished the election of
officers began. There was considerable dis-
cussion upon the floor, meantime tellers
were appointed. Several nominations
were made, but finally the president Gener-
al was elected, Miss Adeline W. Sterling,
First Vice-President of the recent adminis-
tration.
	Tuesday morning the delegates were,
early in their seats and the election began.
There were several nominees for Vice-
President, but when it came to the Record-
ing Secretary General, eighteen candidates
were nominated before it was possible , to
get one to accept the office, as it is well


[Column 1]
known it is one of the most arduous posi-
tions in any organization. The Registrar
was re-elected by acclamation. She had
been a very efficient officer and was appar- 
ently a great favorite.
	The officers elected were: President
General, Miss Adeline W. Sterling, N. J.;
First Vice-President General, Mrs. Nathan-
iel S. Heap, Penn.; Second Vice-President-
General, Mrs. Mary A. Chapman, Mass;
Recording Secretary-General, Mrs. Carlton
M. Moody, Penn.; Corresponding Secretary-
General, Mrs. George B. Wallis, Jr., N. Y.,
Treasurer-General, Mrs. Joseph J. Casey,
N. Y.; Historian-General, Mrs. J. R.
Ditmars, N. J.; Librarian-General, Mrs.
Alexander M. Ferris, Mass.
BOARD OF MANAGERS.
	Mrs. James B. Grant, Colorado; Mrs. Henry
Sanger Snow, L. I.; Mrs George F. Dan-
els, Mass.; Mrs. David C. Carr, N. Y.;
Mrs. George Hodges, N. J.; Miss Tar-
quinia L. Voss, Indiana; Mrs. Andrew W.
Bray, N. J.
	The time was so fully occupied with the
election that the reports from the several
states had to be read during the intervals
when the tellers were out counting votes.
Massachusetts came in with the largest
number of votes, being over seventy, and
naturally the report was excellent as re-
garded numbers and work, for besides a
State Society, Massachusetts has thirty-two
chapters, and they have historical ground
and many things in their favor, which those
at a remote distance do not enjoy. New
York ranks next in membership and has a
State society and sixteen chapters and have
been successful in many ways. New Jer-
sey and Pennsylvania come next in im- 
portance in the Society D. R’s. Utah,
though the youngest of the Daughters, pre-
sented a report that was specially well re-
ceived and was the only one that extended
an invitation to the General Society to come
and hold an Annual Meeting here sometime
in the near future. Nineteen States in all
were represented, most of the reports were
written and all were read by the Regent of
the State except Utah, which was read by
the delegate, Miss Snow, and two or three
reports that came by mail and were read
by the secretary.
	The election having been decided and the
announcements made, the Amendments to
the Constitution that had been sent out
previously were carefully considered,
some of them causing animated discussion,
and finally after a word of prayer and the
singing of “America,” the Convention ad-
journed after six p m., to meet in Brooklyn,
Long Island, in April, 1901.
D. R. ENTERTAINMENTS.
	Wednesday morning, April 25, at eleven
o’clock, the Daughters of the Revolution
were invited to be present at the unveiling
of a Historical Tablet to be given by the
New York State Society to the famous 
Old Dutch Reformed Collegiate Church, of
that city, Fifth Avenue and Forty-Eighth
Street. 
	The church is quite a handsome one in
its appointments and on this occasion there 
were perhaps two hundred of the D. R.
members assembled to witness the cere-
monies. The music was excellent, and the
tablet which was inscribed “In Memory of
the Officers, Soldiers and Sailors who felt in
the War of the Revolution,” was unveiled
by Miss Mary Gage Lambert of Rowley,
Mass., the youngest child of Jonathan

[Column 2]
Lambert, who when, sixteen years old,
took part in the battle of Bunker Hill.
Miss Lambert is now past eighty years of
age.
	The presentation address was made by
Mrs. Charles F. Roe, Regent of the New
York State D. R., and the wife of Major
General Roe. The tablet was received by
the minister of the Church, Rev. Mr. McKay,
who assured the ladies that it should be
sacredly kept in the archives of the Church.
	During his acknowledgement of the gift
he spoke of the denomination to which this
Church belongs, being the oldest in New
York, it having been founded in 1629 by
the Dutch settlers at Manhattan, and was
afterwards used for barracks in the time of
the Revolution. The present building is
erected on the same site as the original
church; he also stated that the bell which
now rings to call the people together is the
one hidden away in war time, and found by
the sexton when the war was over, and
used by the same sexton many years after-
wards.
	At one o’clock of the same day Mrs.
Henry Sanger Snow, the retiring President-
General of the General Society, gave an
elaborate breakfast at the Savoy Hotel to
both the retiring and incoming officers of
the D. R., and the Regents of the several
States represented at the Convention. The
banqueting hall was handsomely decorated,
the stars and stripes, as also the Society
colors, blue and buff, being effectively
used. The round table which seated fifty
guests was dazzlingly magnificent beyond
description. In the centre was an em-
bankment of green, literally piled with yel-
low lilies and blue corn flowers, and in
regular order around the circle were smaller
ones in circle and semicircle; elegant vases
of roses and carnations added to the artistic
decorations, and at each place a pretty silk
flag stood waving; but the bright appear-
ance of the brilliant women who surrounded
this unique “round table” was the most
pleasing picture of all, and one could not
help wondering why therewas not a photog-
rapher at hand, for it certainly would
have been a good opportunity, and, of
course, each guest would have purchased
a picture.
	During the breakfast Mrs. Snow, in a very
sweet and gracious manner, rose, and while
lifting the “Loving Cup,” which had been
previously brought in, turned to the new
President-General, Miss Sterling, saluting
her first, and then bowing to all seated at
the table, drank a toast to the assembled
guests in a few choice words of loving
tenderness, mentioning the fact that there
were represented nineteen states. The new
President-General also toasted her pre-
decessor in office and then the cup went
round, all the ladies tasting the old Moselle
wine from the new “Loving Cup.” After-
wards handsome little ornamental  favors
were given each guest, that were designated
by the ladies “Our little Juniors.”
	The breakfast was a perfect success, cer-
tainly these social functions bring women in
public life closer together in conversation
and acquaintance than is possible in Con-
gresses and Conventions.
	At three p. m. of the same afternoon the
New York State Society gave a reception to
the D. R. from all parts of the country in
the elegant parlors of the Waldorf-Astoria.
Mrs. Roe, State Regent, and her two
“Vices,” received from three to six p. m.,
in the most cordial and gracious manner;
about three hundred “Daughters” attended.

[Column 3]
	It is not possible to describe the dresses
(as the writer has been asked to do on
several occasions), but suffice to say, there
were many elderly daughters who were
quite as elaborately and as shiningly ar-
rayed, in costly apparel, wearing diamonds,
pearls and precious jewels, as the younger
portion of the D. R’s. There were also
others plainly dressed in simple costumes,
but no sort of distinction was apparent 
The elaborately dressed lady conversed with
those in plain attire and a general feeling
of good fellowship prevailed. The music
was of the highest order of excellence and
the delicate and delicious refreshments
were served in the daintiest style.
	Thursday morning two hundred or more
of the D. R.’s started on a trip up the Hud-
son by the West Shore R. R. to West Point.
All arrangements had been made before-
hand by a committee of New York State
and the General Society D. R., Mrs. Charles
W. Dayton, chairman. All the places of
interest were thrown open to the visitors,
the library and museum were the most at-
tractive places. After luncheon many of
the ladies were driven to interesting points
outside the college grounds. Col. Hein,
Commandant of Cadets, caused an exhibi-
tion of field artillery to be given in honor of
the ladies, and later on there was a grand
review of the corps of cadets. The day
was fine and the opportunity given the
ladies to visit and become acquainted with
each other was a source of pleasure and
gratification, as these busy women living
long distances apart, have many interests in
common, and to exchange ideas and com-
pare, is edifying and educational.
	Returning to New York on the evening
train, and in the boat when crossing the
Bay, there was opportunity for parting
messages and fervent farewells. The
writer had a most interesting conversation
with Miss Hunt, of Boston, on the return
trip. Miss M. Mabelle Snow, delegate 
from the Utah D. R., and Miss Abbie
Wells, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Junius F.
Wells, (a Salt Lake girl now sojourning in
New York,) were the youngest members of
the party.


