WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting was
held in the Fourteenth Ward hall, April
14, 1900, with Counselor Elizabeth J.
Stevenson presiding. Singing, “Though
nations rise.” Prayer, Counselor Elizabeth
Webb. Singing, “Welcome best of all
good meetings.” Minutes of January 6,
1900, read and approved.
	President Horne came in and addressed
the meeting: “We as sisters are thankful
for the day that these meetings were or-
ganized. The sisters come here and are
fed the bread of life and their burdens are
lightened. The adversary has a great deal
more power than we think and we must
gain strength to resist this power.” Spoke
of the trials of Job and bow he proved him-
self faithful to God. “We must be very
charitable and not judge one another harsh-
ly, but cleanse and purify ourselves. We
must not find fault with the authorities.
When the law is given us it is our duty to
obey.”
	Sister Barrow said she knew we had to
be tried and proven. Believed the mothers
had a great responsibility to bear, we must
live near unto God, never neglect our
prayers and teaching our children the princi-
ples of the Gospel.
	Sister Johnson said she felt thal our being
here today was an evidence that we have a
testimony. Said she knew this was the
Church of God.
	Sister Barton felt that it was a great
privilege to know this is the Church of
God, and she knew it:
	Sister Martha Morris sang a hymn and
the congregation joined with her.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson said she al

[Column 2]
ways had attended these meetings since their
organization fifty years ago, and was thank-
ful she had had the privilege. Spoke of the
death of her son and how the Lord had
shown to her that he would lose nothing by
his premature death. Spoke of the neces-
sity of prayer, and that this is a progressive
religion. Wished the young sisters would
meet with the elder sisters, felt it would be
such a help to them in raising their chil-
dren. Realized it was necessary for us to
do Temple work.
	The congregation sang “The trials of the
present day,” led by Sister Martha Morris.
	Sister R. R. Grant said she loved the
society of the Saints, felt to thank all for
their faith in her behalf in the prayers that
had been offered for her hearing. She had
visited all the Temples and had been bap-
tized in all of them. Spoke of her ac-
quaintance with the mother of the Prophet
Joseph and others associated with him.
Believed we were the most blessed people
on the earth. Felt we should set a good
example before our children and how nec-
cessary it waff for the young people to pre-
pare themselves to carry on this work of
the Lord.
	Sister Dora Pratt, from Mexico, said she
was a teacher in the Relief Society there.
They were far away, but were striving to
work in unison with the society here. She
felt that the women of the Latter-day Saints
had great and grand privileges.
	Sister E. Webb felt that the good that
can be accomplished by the society was un-
limited, wondered what we should do with-
out it. Spoke of the great gift of faith,
and how it should be cultivated among us,
related how she was healed by the power of
faith. Spoke of the many temptations sur-
rounding us.
	Sister Silver spoke of the blessing that
tithing paying had been to her, felt that the
Lord was so good to us. The path of duty
is the path of safety.
	Sister Butterworth spoke of her experience
in crossing the plains, and how God had
blessed her. She was the mother of eigh-
teen children.
	President Horne related a dream of Presi-
dent Woodruff; also related how her grand-
children had been healed by faith.
	Sister Bateman bore a testimony of the
truth, and Sister Woodward, from Kamas,
Summit Co., said she felt thankful for the
privilege of attending these meetings and
of being a member of the Church. She
had been a member fifty years.
	Counselor Stevenson admonished all to
teach their children and grandchildren the
principles of the Gospel, if you do not
understand the principles, get some one
who can explain them.
	Meeting adjourned for four weeks, every
other is the officers’ meeting. Singing,
Doxology. Benediction by J. S. Woolley.
