		JULIA A. WOOLEY, Sec.


[Column 1]
ANNIVERSARIES.
CEDAR CITY.
	March 17 was celebrated by the Relief
Society holding a meeting in the Taber-
nacle. The usual opening exercises were
rendered, and readings, speeches, songs
and recitations made an agreeable time for
all present.
	The 2nd of March was the 80th anni-
versary of the birth of one of our pioneer
sisters of this place, Sister Margaret S.
Mackelprang. A party was given by

[Column 2]
members of the family at the home of her
eldest daughter. Many friends and rela-
tives met in honor of her birthday, and a
pleasant time was enjoyed by all.
	Sister Mary A. Dover, an active mem- 
ber of our society, also reached the sixtieth
year of her age on the 20th of this month,
and her numerous family, with many
friends assembled at her home to com-
memorate the occasion.
				J. P. M., Cor. Sec.
CHESTERFIELD.
	The Relief Society celebrated anniversary
day, March 17, 1900, by fasting and prayer.
Meeting was presided over by President
Columbia F. Loveland. Singing. Prayer,
Bishop J A. Toleman. Singing. The
roll was called and minutes of meeting
held one year ago were read.
	Sister Mary E. Parker read an article on
the organization of the Relief Society of the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
The meeting was then given into the hands
of the brethren and sisters present to occupy
in bearing their testimonies.
	Sister Mary A. Call, Stake president, felt
thankful when the president spoke about
celebrating in fasting and prayer; was also
thankful that none had been laid away
since our last celebration. Spoke to the
mothers about living lives worthy of imi-
tation.
	Alice Yancey and Ann Sessions, counsel-
ors to President Loveland, felt that it was
good to fast and come and speak of the
goodness of God towards us.
	President C. F. Loveland was pleased to
see so many present, especially as the sis-
ters felt that they were doing their duty and
thought it would do us good to fast.
	Sister Sarah M. Call, counselor to the
Stake president, asked the Lord to help us
live unitedly.
	Sisters Mary A. Toleman and Mary V.
Muir each bore faithful testimonies to the
work we are engaged in, also Sisters
Martha Reese, Rosetta Loveland and
Elizabeth Loveland spoke of the goodness
of God towards them, also of the good
work we are engaged in.
	We then had instrumental music by
Charlotte Toleman, after which Sisters Fannie
Call, Clara Jenson, Mary Loveland, Dora
Barlow and Ella Toleman bore their testi-
monies.
	Bishop Toleman said he had been well
paid in coming and listening to the testi-
monies of the sisters. Was thankful for
the labors the sisters had done in this ward.
	Counselor Carlos Loveland said this was
the first Relief Society meeting he ever at-
tended, but hoped it would not be the last,
he thought the sisters a great help.
	Brother Nickles, of Salt Lake Co., felt at
home, as he felt the same spirit that existed
everywhere among the Saints. He had
also enjoyed the meeting very much.
	Sisters Eliza Toleman, Mary Reese, Clara
Laird and Annie Moss each bore their testi-
monies.
	President C. F. Loveland thought the
time had been well taken up, had enjoyed 
the remarks of her brethren and sisters.
	Minutes were then read and accepted, and
meeting closed by singing. Benediction
by Carlos Loveland.
	A party was given in the evening to
celebrate the occasion, under the auspices
of the Relief Society.
	Your sister in the cause of truth,
