BRIGHAM YOUNG’S BIRTHDAY.
	The ninety-ninth anniversary of Brigham
Young’s birthday is to be made a day of
rejoicing and elaborate ceremony, and it
is eminently fitting that it should be so,
that all the people of Utah and the ad-
joining country may remember this great,
good and wise man who builded not only
for his own people and followers but for
the world and generations yet to come;
who opened up the desert and cultivated
the land and colonized in the midst of this
intermountain, uninhabited region. On
every hand we see the fruits of the noble
pioneers of whom he was the chief leader,
hough there were many whose names
hould have prominence and be recalled in


connection with the settling of these now
beautiful and prosperous vales, Heber C;
Kimball, Wilford Woodruff, John Taylor
and others who cooperated with him in
making “the desert blossom as the rose.”
Generations may come and go but the
name of Brigham Young will never die
while these mountain fastnesses are in-
habited by the descendants of the people
who filled this “Happy Valley” with
homes of peace and plenty.
	The exercises of the day will commence
with a salute of forty-two guns by the
Veteran Artillery Association at 7 a. m.
The people will gather at the Bee Hive
house at 9 a. m., remaining there until
9.45, Held’s band will discourse sweet
music meantime.
	The monument of the great pioneer will
be the next place visited and will be dec-
orated then with flowers brought for the
purpose. The children of the city are
especially invited to do this, the Primary
Associations who always make a cusotm of
keeping in some festive fashion the first
day of June, will, it is ardently hoped,
come in full force having floral trophies, as
the fields, gardens and hills at the present
time abound with the beauties of nature.
	At 10 o’clock the program in the Taber-
nacle will commence and be rendered as
follows: Music, Held’s Military band.
Selection, Tabernacle choir. Invocation,
Hon Brigham Young. Selection, Taber-
nacle choir. Address, Governor Wells.
Music, Held’s Military band. Violin solo,
Morris S. Young. Address. Colonel David
McKenzie; Baritone solo, Horace S. En-
sign. Reading, Dr. Seymour B. Young.
Benediction, Hon Angus M. Cannon.
	Program at Saltair Beach which will be
given in the afternoon: Music, Christen-
sen’s Military band. Invocation, Dr.
George H. Brimhall. Solo, Miss Mary
Young. Address, Professor Joshua H.
Paul. Soprano solo (orchestra accom-
paniment) Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards.
Address, Hon. Thomas Fitch. Music,
Christensen’s band.
IN CHARACTER.
	Fancy dance, Miss La Blanche Snow.
Benediction, President W. J. Kerr.
	There will be a grand ball in the eve-
ning.
	Professor J. A. Anderson will be the ac-
companist in the musical features of the
program.


