	STERLING, ALBERTA, CANADA.

	On Saturday, March 17, the ladies of the
Sterling Relief Society, under the able super–
vision of the president, Hannah M. Russel,
gave a most delightful banquet to the mem–
bers of the ward.
	The people assembled at eleven o'clock
and the following progrm was carried out:
	Congregational singing, "Joseph Smith's
First Prayer." Prayer, Brother Samuel
Fawcett. Singing, "O, my Father."
Report of the first Relief Society meeting held
in Sterling and report of the first Relief
Society meeting of the organization, Sister
Zilla Grant.
	Remarks, Sister Hannah Russel.
	Remarks by Bishop Theodore Brandly.
	Singing, "Come, come ye Saints."
	At 12 o'clock the older members of the
ward, numbering about eighty, were seated
at the tables which were spread with a 
sumptuous feast. Bishop Brandley offered
thanks. When the older ones had finished
the young people sat down and were feasted
to their heart's content. During this time
the older members indulged in social con-
versation.
	After a general clearing up there was
another song, "Now let us rejoice."
	Sketch of the life of Eliza R. Snow,
Mary E. Hardy. Song, James Kirk.
	Dancing was then begun, during which
the following exercises were rendered:
	Song, Mr. and Mrs. Charles Tillock.
Song, Mrs. Augusta Larsen. Remarks,
Brother F. D. Grant.
	At 6 o'clock there was an intermission
during which refreshments were passed. A
large ornamented fruit cake was cut, and
each one present was treated to a piece.
	At seven dancing again commenced and
during the evening the following program
was carried out:
	Song, A. M. Faddis.
	Henry Schutt was called upon for a song,
but being no singer, Brother Schutt, assisted
by those present, played a new game, called
"Sterling."
	Song, Misses and Messrs. Clark.
	Benediction by William B. Hardy.
	All expressed themselves as having passed
a delightful day, and much praise is due
the members of the Relief Society and
those who assisted.
							E. V. H.
	NOTTINGHAM, ENGLAND.
	The sisters of Nottingham met on
Monday evening, March 19. at the home of
President A. M. Henson, to celebrate the
anniversary of the Relief Society. Several
of the Elders from Utah were present, also
local Elders.
	Meeting commenced at 8 p. m. by sing-
ing "How firm a foundation." Prayer was
offered by President Geo. Ruff. Continued
with singing, "O, my Father." The roll
was then called.
	Sister Henson said we all knew the rea-
son for meeting together this evening, and
hoped all would respond to the call made
upon them, and by so doing we would have
the Holy Spirit in our midst.
	Elder L. Sanford first addressed the
meeting. Said he felt it an honor to have
the privilege of attending Relief Soclety 
meetings, as it was a noble work, and the
Lord would bless and prosper the sisters if
they continued in well doing.

[Column 2]
	Sister Edith Cable then favored us with
the song, "Time may Steal the Roses."
	Sister Polly Simons gave a recitation,
"She Is Dead." Sister Bessie Cable also
favored us with a song entitled "Sing Me
an English Song."
	Elder C. F. Campbell then addressed the
meeting for a short time. Said he could
see the good the sisters were doing, and
while not missionaries from a far-off land,
were doing quite as good a work among
the poor and needy.
	Brother H. Taylor and Sister L. Taylor
favored us with a duet, "She Wore a
Wreath of Roses," Sister Lucy Green then
gave a reading, "A Marvelous Healing,"
and Sister A. M. Henson favored us with
the song, "Belle Mahone's Reply."
	Sister E. Taylor gave a short speech and
hoped always to remain firm and steadfast
in the cause of truth.
Brother Henson then sang, "Under a
Spreading Chestnut Tree," after which
Counselor H. Keeling spoke a short time.
Said she knew the work in which we were
engaged was the work of God, and hoped
to always remain faithful to the same.
	Elder Richards was then asked to address
the Saints. He said it was the first time he
had the privilege of attending a Relief
Society meeting, and could see they were
engaged in a good, honorable work, and
hoped the Lord would continue to bless
them and pour down at all times His Holy
Spirit, that they might indeed be blest.
	An interval of about half an hour was
then allowed for refreshments, which all
heartily enjoyed.
	President Geo. Ruff then spoke to us.
Said he remembered the last time we met
to celebrate the same occasion, the enjoy-
able time we had, that it would be impos-
sible to forget the kindness he had received
at the hands of the sisters. He was al-
ways pleased at the unity that existed in
the Relief Society and hoped we would re-
main united, for great things can be accom-
plished when a band of sisters were united.
Hoped the Lord would continue to bless us
and be with us in all our undertakings.
	The meeting was then closed by singing
the hymn, "From all that dwell below the
skies. Benediction by Elder C. F. Camp-
bell.
	The report of the Relief Society since last
March is as follows: Members enrolled,
eighteen; average attendance, seven; meet-
ings held, twenty-five; houses visited by
the teachers, thirty; money paid into the
relief fund, £2 5s 3d; paid to the sick and
poor, £2, .0s 2 1/2d.
