OBITUARY.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Sister Mary Henrietta Meecham Batty was born
April 10, 1848, near Kanesville, Iowa, and died in
Wallsburg, Wasatch Co., Utah, Dec. 21. 1899.
She was the daughter of Ephraim and Patty D.
Meecham.
	Whereas, Our Eternal Father, in His infinite
wisdom, has seen fit to call from this stage of ac-
tion, our beloved president, Mary H. Batty, be it
	Resolved, That as members of the Relief Society


we will strive to follow her good examples and
teachings.
	Resolved, That we remember that we have
never heard her speak evil of any one, but always
had a sympathetic, kind word for all.
	Resolved, That we remember through all her
sufferings she was never known to complain, but
bore her sickness with fortitude and patience and
with gratitude to all who lent a hand for her com-
fort. She died as she had lived, a faithful sister,
a noble mother and a true, loving friend to all.
	Resolved, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication, one
be put on the records of the Wallsburg Relief
Society and one be given to the sorrowing family,
to whom we would say be comforted, for with
mother all is well.
	She has left this world of sorrow,
		To join the Saints above,
	It was rest to her weary heart,
		She now dwells in peace and love.
					ESTHER DABLING,
					JENNIE ALBRED,
					ALICE COOK,
							    Committee.
SISTER ROSINA HILLIER NOALL.
	Sister Rosina Hillier Noall was born at Mont-
pelier, Idaho, March, 1872.
	She was the daughter of Leo C. and Annie
Hillier. The deceased was an accomplished young
lady and filled many important positions in the
Bear Lake Stake, being an aid in the Primary
Association of the Stake, Church organist and
president of the Y. L. M. I. A. in the ward in
which she resided. By profession she was a
school teacher, in which calling she was very suc-
cessful.
	In April, 1899, Sister Hillier was married to
Matthew Noall, who by death had been bereaved
of his former wife. Through her loving disposi-
tion she endeared herseif to the hearts of the little
ones.
	Sister Noall departed this life March 23, 1900.
She lived and died a faithful Latter-day Saint and
leaves a husband, infant daughter and a host of
relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father in His infinite
wisdom has deemed it best to call unto Himself our
beloved sister, and
	Whereas, She proved he[-]self an efficient worker
as aid in the Primary Association of the Bear
Lake Stake until her recent removal to Salt Lake
City, and was one whose kindness and generosity
of spirit brought sunshine to many hearts.
	Resolved, That we realize that God calls from
our midst our esteemed associates and friends; that
He doeth all things for the best and we must be-
resigned to His holy will.
	Resolved, That we, her co-laborers, extend to
her family our heartfelt sympathy in their bereave-
ment.
			ANNIE LAKER, President.
			ELIZA DALRYMPLE 1st Counselor.
			MARY J. RICH, 2nd Counselor.


