but a child about seven years of age. My
home was at Whitesborough, four miles
west of Utica, New York. This being the


home of Col. White, it was named for him,
I suppose; and he being a choice friend of
Gen. Lafayette’s, he chose to come there to
make him a visit.
	I shall never forget the bowery erected on
this occasion; so high, and covered with
evergreens and flowers—so lovely I can see
it yet, the floor covered with a nice carpet,
a sofa, a few chairs and a table for the clerk
to write his speech. The floor or platform
being raised about two feet from the ground,
the people must step up there to shake
hands with him, which, of course, every-
body wanted to do.
	I took great pleasure in looking at him.
He was a fine looking old gentleman, about
sixty years of age, I should think. After
speaking, he requested that he might have
dinner under the large oak tree in front of
Col. White’s house, where he had eaten in
the time of the Revolution, with Col.
White. This was done, everybody helping
to do it. The children had the pleasure of
being spectators, and finally went home,
when all was over, hearing the music of
some of the war tunes, I suppose.
	Although I was but a child, I find we
can well remember, and find such things
make a lasting impression on the mind.
		MARY ELLEN KIMBALL.
April 23, 1900.


[Column 1]
REPORT OF UTAH SOCIETY D. R.
BY MRS. E. B. WELLS.
	[Read at a meeting of the General Society in
New York City, April 24, 1900, by Miss M.
Mabelle Snow.]
Madame President General, and Daughters of
	the Revolution:
	Time flies so swiftly that it seems but
yesterday since we made our report to the
annual meeting, in Philadelphia, last year,
and I regret that we have not made greater
progress in actual work, or greater increase
in membership; however we are not dis-
couraged, but of the many who have prom-
ised to join us, we hope to double our num-
ber this year. It is not for want of
patriotic sentiment that our growth has
been slow, but owing more to the many
duties and responsibilities that claim atten-
tion. Nearly all our members are interested
in other organizations that occupy so much
precious time, and that seem more essential
to everyday life, in the present.
	Yet our hearts are deeply touched with
the spirit of this work, and we are expect-
ing to make a special study of the Colonial
period. So far the papers read at our
meetings have all been of a patriotic and
historic character, even those descriptive of
the visit of the delegation last year to
Pennsylvania. Busy women, especially
mothers of families, find it a little difficult
to adapt themselves to a regular course of
study. I fear I am only telling you what
has not been done instead of reporting the
few things that the Society has undertaken.
Besides regular business meetings, we have
held several social gatherings that have
been successful in binding us more closely
together, and we have always aimed to
make them patriotic in outward seeming by

[Column 2]
displaying the stars and stripes in decorat-
ing, and wearing the national colors, as
well as intensely patriotic in reality and in
the character of our exercises.
	As a Society we are proud of the oppor-
tunity to contribute to the Valley Forge
Monument Fund, and sincerely hope to do
more in the future for so noble a purpose,as
beautifying that historic spot made forever
memorable in the history of American inde-
pendence.
	We celebrated the Boston Tea Party in the
very best style possible at so remote a
period, and so far removed from the scene
of actual occurrences. All our music, exer-
cises, poems and papers were descriptive of
the memorable, historic event, and our re-
freshments were old Yankee delicacies. We
had a number of invited guests who gave
toasts and made stirring speeches with the
true ring of heroism.
	We expected to observe the nineteenth of
April, the battle of Lexington, in as appro-
priate a manner as possible, and make the
day impressive with music national songs,
etc., but were forestalled in this by
the Sons of the American Revolution
who arranged a magnificent reception and
ball in our city, and honored our Society
as well as the D. A. R., by inviting every
member of both societies to unite with them
in commemorating the day; so we must
look for the next remarkable day of revolu-
tionary fame and make a record for our
Society worthy of mention in our history.
	If we have not added new members in
the ordinary way, we have had an increase
of both sons and daughters of revolutionary
descent that in a few years may add to the
membership of the little juniors. These
little strangers have gladdened the hearts
and homes into which their advent has
been made. Two sons and two daughters
have been born to our young mothers since
our report last year; and we have also had
one marriage, Miss Farnsworth, of our last
year’s delegation, to Mr. Henry C. Lund,
attorney at law. This fact may have re-
tarded our work somewhat, as also the ab-
sence of the Regent, in London, duing the
summer months attending the International
Council and Congress of Women.
	At the annual meeting, March 1st, the
Utah Society presented the retiring Regent
with one of the elegant badges of the D. R.
which was an expression of love and appre-
ciation on their part she felt most deeply,
and while proud and happy to wear it, rep-
resenting, as it does, the principles for
which the Society stands, it must and will
be a constant reminder of the obligations
accepted when uniting herself with the
Daughters of the Revolution throughout
this, glorious Republic of America, and
should make each of us who wear it more
truly the representatives of those great
principles of freedom and liberty for which
our ancestors fought so valiantly and en-
dured so much.
	The election of officers resulted in an all
most entire new Board, and as they are al-
comparatively young women, it is ardently
hoped, at least by the retiring Regent, that
the work accomplished this coming year


may eclipse all that has heretofore been
even contemplated.
	As a list of names of officers has already
been forwarded to the secretary, it is need-
less to give them here as most of them
would be unknown, and we will, therefore,
let their future works praise them.
	It is doubtless understood by all members
present that the Utah society is incorpor-
ated and that though little has been done
in the past, as we are still in babyhood, yet
we have “Great Expectations’ and look for-
ward to the time when the General Society
will honor Utah by holding its annual
meeting in the valley of the Great Salt
Lake, where only half a century ago the
Great American Desert lay barren and
desolate, peopled only by savages. Our
members, with the exception of the writer,
were all born and reared in that inter-
mountain region, yet their heritage of free-
dom is like your own, and they hold as
dear and as precious the gifts bequeathed
from their honored ancestry,—freedom,
liberty and individual responsibility.
	Should you come and hold your annual
meeting in Utah, you would receive a
royal welcome to our hearts and homes, and
behold the grandeur of the everlasting hills
that stand like sentinels around our valley,
and the famous Salt Lake, the Dead Sea of
America.
	We congratulate the General Society on
the standard of excellence it has attained,
and so far as the Utah society may be able
to assist, we pledge its support to help for-
ward this patriotic movement in every way
possible with hearts and hands and earnest
endeavors; for we in the West, like our
Eastern sisters, are devoted heart and soul
to the principles of American Independence.


