GENERAL CONFERENCE RELIEF SOCIETY.

	Afternoon session, April 5, 1900, Presi-
dent Zina D. H. Young presiding. Meet-
ing opened  by singing the hymn
“Glorious things are sung of Zion,'
by the Young Ladies’ choir of the 20th
ward. Prayer by President Hammond, of
San Juan Stake. Singing, solo by Miss
Judith Anderson, “Flee as a Bird to to the
Mountain,” accompanied by Miss Lizzie
Thomas.
	The first speaker was Pres. M. A. Hakes
Maricopa Stake, she reported the society
throughout in good condition and the sis-
ters full of good works. “We live a long
way from headquarters, we have to travel
over two thousand miles to come to Con-
ference. In our place we have only one
hundred and thirty white people and six
hundred Lamanites. The government has
established a school for them and erected a
fine building. We have had one new
society organized since our last report, in
Pine Gila Co. We have many young
women who have joined our society. We
have to seal up our wheat in tin cans in
order to keep it. 
	Counselor Agnes Cutler, Jordan Stake,
eported the recent organization of that


[Column 1]
Stake and spoke of the good desires of the
officers that had been chosen.
President Annie U. Larson, Emery
Stake, made an excellent report. Said
they had made an effort in the society
to raise silk and encouraged the sisters to pay
tithing that the blessings promised might
follow.
President Kate L. Paxman, Juab Stake,
referred to President Mary Pitchforth’s
having resigned on account of her delicate
health, and yet they wanted to enjoy her
counsel and her presence in the meetings.
Intended to persevere in her duties in the
position she had been called to fill.
Miss Lillie Pye rendered a solo, “I have
Seen the Beautiful City.”
President Sarah Jenne Cannon: “Dear
sisters, I am thankful to be here today.
The prophet Joseph builded better than he
knew when he organized this society with
nineteen members and now it numbers
thirty thousand. We are doing a great
work, the world are also doing a genealogi-
cal work and do not know why. We are
laboring intelligently, each branch of the
Relief Society should be visited and in-
structed. We should reach the far away
branches, they are the ones who need it
most. We should patronize the Exponent
and have it in every society, and in every
family, if possible. I am very thankful to
the dear young girls who have been sing-
ing for us, and hope they will be blest.
We need the young women in our society,
there is such a big field to work in. We
should all do our share, and not depend on
our neighbors but on ourselves.”
President Emily G. Cluff, Josepa, re-
ported the Sandwich Island settlement.
Said they would like to plant some grain
this year and raise some wheat to store up.
Last year they planted a melon patch and
realized one hundred dollars from their
melons.
Sister Margaret Moody Clift, of St.
George, spoke earnestly of the society in
that Stake, of the large number of branches
and the wheat stored and the excellent
granary owned by the sisters.
One of the late President Layton’s daugh-
ters, Selina L. Phillips, spoke feelingly of
the work and of the dear faces of the sisters
in the conference she remembered when a
child. The leading sisters from head-
quarters had never visited St. Joseph Stake,
she had lived there thirteen years and
would like to see some of them come there;
it would be a great pleasure to the sisters
who need instruction and counsel.
Sister Julina L. Smith spoke upon the or
ganization of the Relief Society by the
Prophet Joseph, and that he gave the first
money towards creating a fund, five dollars.
Others present gave something, the Prophet
also gave a house and lot, and had the
house repaired so it might be used for the
poor who were homeless. She also men-
tioned the ten cent donation expected from
all the Stakes of Zion, and added that she
believed it would be a blessing, as the lead-
ing sisters could then visit the different
Stakes and comfort those who needed ad-
vice and encouragement. Spoke of how
the Lord sustained the aged sisters who
had labored so faithfully for Zion. 
President Zina D. H. Young: “We
need just about a week to bless and help
our sisters in these meetings. We are en-
gaged in the great work of salvation. The
mothers when bearing their children should
seek to have them infused with love and
the Holy Spirit. We want the blessing of

[Column 2]
God with us, He is just as willing to hear
the prayers of the sisters as the brethren.
My prayers ascend for you all in the night
time. Never allow yourselves to speak
against the priesthood of God, those who do
cannot prosper, they will fall away or turn
aside, I have seen it come to pass many
times in the last sixty-five years. Let us
sanctify our bodies, make them fit temples
for the Holy Ghost to dwell in, that we
may enjoy the fulness of all things the
Lord has to bestow upon the faithful. May
we each go home from here with the good
spirit we have found here and prove faithful
unto the end, and until we shall see the
face of our Father in heaven.
Counselor Mary P. Young, Granite
Stake, spoke of the way in which the
officers were visiting in that new Stake
from place to place, said she already began
to feel acquainted with the people. Alluded
to the Prophet Joseph saying the society
was to help put down iniquity and correct
the morals of society. Prayed the
Lord would inspire the younger women to
come forward and help in this work.
Counselor A. L. Cox, of Sanpete Stake,
said they were striving to live their reli-
gion. Felt it was good to keep the 17th
of March and pay the ten cent donation, it
was a historic day and should be ob-
served, it is desirable to review the past
labors of the society. She always urged
the sisters to take the Exponent, and after
what had been said today she hoped there
would be an increased subscription. “Last
year there was a disadvantage in saving
wheat, but we hope to do more this year.
The Lord has greatly blessed us in our
labors and we have a very good president in
Sister Mary Ann Hyde, and she has been
appreciated.
