THE LAST LETTER.
’Tis evening; over the noise of battie,
Throgh high among the crags the sounds still
	rattle,
Spion Kop is taken, proud the English feel,
Though many tears are failing, where soldiers
	kneel
Over the prostrate form, of a comrade slain,
Who will hear the bugle call never again.
Deep groans from the wounded, lying in their
	gore,
Some in anguish crying, some their God implore.

The ambulance is waiting, carry them there,
Lift them so tenderly, ’tis a mother’s prayer;
Smooth the curling hair from foreheads damp and
	cold,
For the glazing eyes no morrow will behold,
Lying on a pallet, overwrought with pain,
’Mong the scenes of childhood, mem’ry plays
	again,
Mother is standing close by the open door,
With the radiant smile, the dear face always
	wore.

“Write, write,” cries the voice, growing more
	faint and weak,
“Tell her the loving words, I shall never speak;
Pray I, for forgivness—God’s blessings on her,
I loved her though I wounded—how my eyes blur!
On her breast I’m lying, soft she smooths my
	hair,
And I hear the music of her evening prayer;
What a drowsy feeling, now to rest I go,
Her kisses on my forehead, that thrill me so.

“I think when I read that sweet story of old.’
Yes these are the words: why blows the wind so
	cold ?
‘I wish that his hands had been placed on my
	head,’
Hers so softly I feel there, in Christ’s own stead.
List! I hear her singing, as the angels do,
The sound floating far away, where the skies are
	blue.
The dear old home seems heaven, peace every-
	where,
Father gently nodding, in his old arm chair.

“No, I’m never coming home, but she’ll come to
	me,
And tell her I will meet her by the Silver Sea.
O, how cold the river, and how dark the way,
And you look so strangely, and so far away.”
Now the letter is written, and all is o’er,
No sorrow nor anguish, will his heart know more;
Other mothers are weeping all o’er the land,
Moans of anguish are heard in each broken band,

Spion Kop is taken, vict’ry to the strong,
The Tugela unmoved, slowly glides along;
The ripples on its bosom, tell no sad tales,
But the wash on its banks sounds like human
	wails.
Yonder the mountains tall, stern silence keep,
High on their rugged sides, the wild flowers sleep;
The murm’ing winds tumultous voices are,
Echoing again the sounds that came from far.

The mountain was bought with blood and car-
	nage, too,
The dangers of the winding pass no one knew;
Inglorious on the morrow ’tis left again,
Retreating backward to the rolling plain,
And this is glory, this a battle won,
What wonder that in darkness was veiled the sun;
Or that chilly night winds, sigh a requium,
Or that stars are blinking above the battle’s din.

God hear the widow’s cry! chain the demon war,
Halt the sad procession of the fun’ral car;
Charge blood up to the nations who Thee despise,
And never heed Thy counsel, though good and
	wise.
Bare thy arm in fury, for the weak proclaim,
Trodden under foot of man, among the slain,
May death and wrong be vanquished, and tyrant’s
	power,
Soon the cry go forth, “’Tis my scourging hour.”
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
	Watford, Herdfordshire, England.


