ONEIDA STAKE CONFERENCE.
	The Relief Society Conference of Oneida
Stake, held April 19, 1900, in the Preston
meeting house, President Elizabeth Fox
presiding, commenced by singing “We
thank Thee, O God, for a prophet.” Prayer 
by President George C. Parkinson. Sing-
ing, “O, say what is truth.”
	Officers present on the stand were Presi-
dent Elizabeth Fox, Counselors Mary
Hawks and Delilah E. Dudley; of the
General officers, Zina D. H. Young, and
Jane S. Richards; Zina Young Card and
Emily S. Richards, also President Geo. C.
Parkinson and counselors, of the Oneida
Stake.
	President Elizabeth Fox was gratified to
see so many present also wished to give
all the time possible to our visiting sisters.
	Roll called, showing eleven wards repre-
sented out of fourteen.
	Annie Challis, of Franklin; Phebe
McNeil, of Fairview; Elizabeth Clark, of
Weston and Sarah Callan, of Dayton, re-


[Column 1]
ported their respective wards as diligent
and willing to respond to every call.
	Sister Dora Geddes then beautifully
rendered the hymn, “I know that my
Redeemer lives.”
	Sister Zina Y. Card read, by request of
President Zina D. H. Young, a piece from
the EXPONENT, extracts from the minutes
of the first organization by Joseph Smith
the Prophet.
	President Zina D. H. Young felt weak.
These meetings brought to her mind the
days and sayings of the Prophet
Joseph when he turned the key of knowl-
edge for woman. “Plant good ideas into
the minds of the children, they notice our
example, they are glorious spirits the Lord
has entrusted to our care.” She had al-
ways listened attentively when the prophet
addressed the Saints. She had no hard
feelings against anybody. Prayed the Lord
to bless the land of Missouri. The day
will come when we will occupy it again.
“May the Lord help us to love each other.”
	President Jane S. Richards felt she could
say nothing this morning, wanted to be
directed by the right spirit. We should
treasure up all we have heard from Aunt
Zina. She was not familiar with the
Prophet, but had heard him address the
Saints many times. She said nothing but
sickness would keep her from her meetings.
Felt thankful for being permitted to belong
to the first Relief Society. She wished to
conform to every true principle and be
willing whenever called upon. Said we
have to attend to temporal as well as spirit-
ual duties. “May the Lord direct you in
all things.”
	President George C. Parkinson made a
few remarks. Could feel a beautiful in-
fluence here today, did not wish to take
from our minds what we had heard.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m. Sing-
ing, ‘Praise to the man who communed
with Jehovah.” Benediction, S. W. Hale.
	2 p. m. The choir sang “Lord make
Thy name known.” Prayer by Joseph
Geddes. Singing, “Prayer is the soul’s
sincere desire.”
	The financial and statistical report of the
Stake was read and approved; also the
treasurer’s report accepted.
	Julia Roper, of Preston; L. B. Benson, of
Whitney; Ingred Graham, of Mink Creek
reported their wards as active, working
satisfactorily in helping every good cause.
	Sister Emily S. Richards remembered the
advice of her mother, to be obedient to the
priesthood, and said love one another, do
not speak evil of any one. Train our chil-
dren to respect their parents, educate our
daughters that they may be prepared to do
the work the Lord intends them to do.
We should strive to be loyal to all.
	Singing, by Sister Cutler, of Preston.
	Counselor D. E. Dudley was thankful to
meet with our aged sisters who are with us
today. Considered it a privilege to hear
their instructions and testified of the truth
of their remarks.
	President Elizabeth Fox felt thankful in
hearing our sisters who are visiting with

[Column 2]
us. “I trust we may remember their good
counsel, that it may be a benefit to us.
Gave a brief report of the Stake, had visited
all the wards during the year with the ex-
ception of Baker City, in Oregon, and the
newly organized branch at Swan Lake.
Was well pleased with the reports in hear-
ing of granaries and meetiug houses being
put up for the benefit of these organizations.
Having labored for many years in the Re-
lief Society this Stake, owing to the
condition of her health she wished to be
released from the responsibilities of the
work, if all were willing. “May the
blessings of God be with us all.”
	President George C. Parkinson gave an
account of the labors of Sister Fox in con-
nection with him, in their travels through
the Stake. Felt she had endeared herself
to the sisters in her visits among them, but
she can continue her labors among them, as
she would be sustained as an honorary
president.
	It was then proposed that Sister Fox be
allowed to retire from the hard work of the
presidency. A few hands reluctantly went
up.
	Sister Jane S. Richards further explain-
ing said: “It is not because Sister Fox is
tired of the work, but because her bodily
health will not permit.” She wished to be
released on that account. Was pleased to
see the affection shown to Sister Fox.
	President G. C. Parkinson gave a vote of
thanks to Sister Fox and her aids.
	Sister L. B. Benson was then chosen to
succeed Sister Fox as President of the
Oneida Stake.
	Sister Benson said she realized that obe-
dience was the first law of heaven. Was
willing to do what was required of her.
	The vote was unanimous.
	Zina Y. Card explained the routine of
Relief Society work. Said to be careful in
keeping our records properly.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke a few
words in tongues, interpretation by Zina Y.
Card.
	Sister Fox felt to be obedient to those
placed over us, was thankful for the good
will expressed by her sisters.
	President Jane S. Richards mentioned our
observing the 17th of March and the 10ct.
fund, it would be proper to forward the
means together and get your proper credit
and receipt. Was delighted to have the
brethren with us and thankful for their
presence. Asked God’s blessings on all.
	Sister Fox exhorted all to do their whole
duty.
	Singing, “The Spirit of God like a fire is
burning.” Benediction by S. H. Hale.
