How Relief Society Came to Me Rexine Eagar Three or four days ago Bishop Thomas called my home and asked that I come to his office. When I told my family that I was leaving for a few minutes, and where I was going, my ten-year-old daughter started bubbling over with "Oh, goodie, we don't have our Primary teacher yet. I'll bet it will be you." As I straightened my hair, she bubbled continuously about the joys and hardships of teaching the members of her class.

When I returned home and told her that I would be teaching in Relief Society, her face fell and she said, "That's not fair; the ladies already know everything." I have a testimony of the value and worth of Relief Society, but I didn't always have it. Let me tell you how I was converted.

I was married when I was eighteen years old and had opportunity then to attend Relief Society—but I didn't. I thought it must be worthwhile because it was part of the Church organization, and I had a testimony of the gospel then, but at eighteen, I was afraid to go for two reasons. First, I thought the meetings were held only to work on welfare sewing, and I knew I wasn't skilled in sewing and quilting. Secondly, I thought that the social relationship among the sisters was talking while they worked. At eighteen, I felt I wasn't wise enough and didn't know enough about what was going on in our small town to be a part of the conversation.

As the years passed, I felt less and less a desire to attend. As long as I can remember, I have had two main goals in life: successfully to rear and teach a large family of children, and to get as much education as I can. During the first six years of our marriage we were blessed with five children, and I was thrilled with them, but began to feel frustrated and unhappy with myself because I was doing nothing about continuing my education. I couldn't manage to attend night classes and I felt bitter and enslaved by my housework.

During that time, my Relief Society teachers came each month and always invited me to attend meetings. Inside myself, I felt, "That's all I need now, to be using my time in Relief Society meetings." Then, one day the president came to see me and asked me to sing in a meeting. I went to Relief Society and opened the door to opportunities I didn't know existed. At that meeting, the class leader and lesson inspired me, and I knew that there was my way to gain knowledge.

I subscribed to The and began to study before going to hear each lesson. I was thrilled with what I was learning. At first, I was attending for selfish reasons, because of what I could gain personally, but soon I began to see that I was learning things that were helping me to be a better wife and mother. I learned about helping my children eventually to reach maturity in all phases of their lives, not just physically. I could see how very much more was expected of me as a mother than I had realized before.

Sometimes I would become apprehensive—what if I hadn't become aware of these things? And so my desire to learn became accelerated, to learn to benefit my family. Four years ago, I was called to work as a member of the presidency in our ward. My desire to serve others outside my family group broadened the desire for knowledge and brought the joy of service.

I have heard several times that if a woman will faithfully attend her meetings, study the lessons, and try hard to make their teachings a part of her life, she will be gaining the equivalent of a college education. She will understand her calling in womanhood and motherhood and will have the knowledge and wisdom to succeed in both. I believe every Latter-day Saint woman should attend Relief Society, and in so doing, "the hand that rocks the cradle" will be strengthened, more gently and always unfalteringly.

This is my sincere belief and testimony.