Chapter 
SYNOPSIS: Nancy Jackson, with two children, accompanies her husband Grant on a teaching assignment on the Island of Truk, where they live in a quonset hut. However, Nancy is told by a native doctor that she will have to go to a hospital on Guam for the birth of twins. In the meantime, a letter arrives from their friends, the Mortensens, who live on Saipan, saying that a teacher will exchange teaching assignments with Grant, so that the Jacksons can make their home on Saipan as neighbors of the Mortensens. Upon their arrival, a native maid, Soledad, takes charge of the children. Twin boys are born to the Jacksons, and soon afterwards, Nancy resumes most of the care of her family. They find much delight in exploring their island home and learning the customs of the native people.

The Gauntlet

Janet W. Breeze

Boonie fires had to burn themselves out. There was no alternative. The one small fire engine owned by the Municipality of Saipan could, at best, Nancy was convinced, spray forth no more water than a garden hose. And so it was with sighs of relief that the inhabitants of the island once again felt the rain sting the backs of their necks, whether gardening at home, or venturing forth on a picnic to a "hidden" beach.

The only thing wrong with Ladder Beach, Nancy decided, was that it had no ladder. One sawed-off telephone pole propped against the cliff was the only means of lowering anyone down to the secluded cove where violent, free waves broke into frothy white as they stumbled and fell against the coral table. "Picnicking at Ladder Beach is about as silly as swimming Lake Susupe," Grant said, as he stood at the top of the short cliff and dropped a pan of fried chicken down to Charles Mortensen.

"Say, I never did get the full story on that," Charles said.

"You haven't missed anything," Nancy interrupted. "I was never so scared—nor so disappointed in my whole life!"

"What she means," Grant said, "was that we swam part way and dragged bottom part way!"

"It was pretty exciting, though," Nancy said, "when it started getting darker and we weren't too sure if we were going straight. But some people on the shore saw us and panicked to think anyone was swimming in the lake. So they built a big fire to guide us, and by the time we reached the shore, I think the entire village of Susupe was standing around staring."

"Well, you can't say life in the tropics ever gets dull!" Francine laughed.

"And while we're on the subject of adventuring—Charles and I would like to take you into the 'boonies' when we've finished eating and show you something I think you'll be quite interested in. It's straight out of an old Tarzan movie!"

"Sounds exciting," Nancy said.

"You know, we've been here on Saipan ten months, but every time we start thinking we know all about the island and the people, the more we know we don't know. I venture to say that it's the most historically complicated fourteen miles by six miles in the whole world!"

With this, Nancy carefully stepped and handed her way backwards down the propped pole. Then, upon lifting Skipper and Amy down off the pole, both families of children headed straight for a nearby cave.

"Think that's the one thing they love about this place the most," Nancy said, "finding those sea shells with the little crabs in them."

When Grant jumped down with the last armload of food, Nancy and

"Francine began spreading out the lunch as the two men built a fire on the sand.

"In fact," Nancy said, "I think this whole experience has made our family so much more aware of the little things in life which used to pass us by. Back home, the children were not happy unless they were being entertained by television—or friends. It never would have entered their minds to flop down on their stomachs and watch ants march through the grass the way they lie on the sand and race crabs here. I'll admit that the crabs are probably more exciting, but still I can't help but think that we could have had just as many adventures at home if we had taken the time to really look for them."

"If you were like me," Francine said, handing Nancy the chip dip, "you probably spent most of your time picking up and putting away. By the time the house was straight, you were too tired to do much exploring."

"You know the answer to that, don't you?" Nancy said.

"You'd better believe it!" Charles said.

"You know, when Francine was packing, I'll bet she cried for a week about all the things she had to get rid of. We sent only what was absolutely necessary. But by the time the shipment got here, we had so adjusted our lives to getting along without even if— that we weeded out again!" "Actually," Nancy said, "it was probably the greatest shock of my life, unpacking after two months and finding things I had forgotten I ever had. Now why did I buy them in the first place?" "When we do go back to stateside living," Francine said, "that is the one souvenir I want to take with me— simplicity. If I never learn another thing in my whole life, I hope I can always remember how uncluttered and uncomplicated the lives of these happy islanders really are." "It was funny," Grant chuckled, "the day we first came, Nancy and I were both shocked to see the women simply standing out in the water in their house dresses to fish! We figured these people must be terribly poor not to have swimming attire of some kind. But it took only once for us to cut our feet on the coral and to get sunburned badly before we discovered the Micronesians were only being wise to enter the water fully clothed." At the mere suggestion that Throw Down the Gauntlet there might be approval, Skipper tramped out into the water and sat down with a forceful, giggly splash. Then each of the picnickers helped himself to the informal setting of food, eating wherever and whenever he wished. And Nancy lay face down in the warm, white sand, sifting the tiny particles through her fingers. There she became awed at the almost microscopic world of round, pearl-like shells and porous chips of coral which had previously gone unnoticed under the bareness of her footsteps. Rolling over on her back, she marveled at the tint of ultramarine blue in the zinc white sky, and felt as if she were inside a huge dome. Inside her dome, the world ended at the sea's horizon and Saipan alone was covered with a breathtaking convex lid. As she watched the nebulous clouds grow and age with gray, it was a reminder that the rainy season was once more upon them. "Actually, the rainy season is not the best time of year to be doing a thing like this," Francine said, as she directed them away from the beach to a new adventure of exploring. "But whether you can breathe in here or not, this is something you must see!" As they stepped and pushed their way through the dense, fern-like tangantangan, Nancy carried one of the twins, and Grant the other. Amy and Skipper ran merrily ahead, chasing after the bouncing toads which crisscrossed their path. And then before them on the compost path stood Francine's fairy-tale surprise—a pre-war structure of white concrete, its meticulously designed rotunda scarred with creeping, black mold. "This was the city hospital of Garapan," Francine said. "Now all that remains is just a handful of bombed-out ruins hidden deep in the boonies where the residents don't have to be reminded of the past." They stepped carefully over weathered boards and other debris, down a white-tiled corridor and out into a "sleeping beauty" courtyard. Through an aisleway of giant taro, they came upon another building, small and square. Francine climbed the steps and knocked on the door. "Don't tell me someone dives here!" Nancy said. "No," Francine giggled, "but I want to let all the toads and geckos know we're coming!" Then she opened the door and both families stepped inside. "See there!" Francine said, "above the door." "It's fantastic!" exclaimed. "How come they painted a picture on the wall when nobody lives here, Mama?" Amy asked. "People say this was an isolation ward," Francine said, "and that this scene depicting primitive island life was undoubtedly done by one of the patients." "But the colors!" Grant said, "they're so vivid! Why, the whole thing is in perfect condition!" "The front of the huts look as if they could have been carved and painted in Paluan storyboard fashion," Charles said, "so perhaps this was not a scene remembered in the Marianas." Nancy thought only of how long and pleasantly full another day had been, as they worked their way back to their cars in the pale green twilight. "Skipper," Nancy said, "come and get in the car, honey." She turned and looked behind her. "Skipper? Skipper!" But the child did not answer. "Grant? Oh, Grant. He can't be lost! Not here in the boonies!" "Relax," Francine said, "no one ever gets lost here very long. You know, yourself, the boonies are full of shacks and people." "Since he obviously didn't come this way," Grant said, "let's just walk back in the opposite direction until we come to something. Maybe someone will have seen him. Come on, Nancy. Let Francine and Charles stay with the other children and we'll go and find him." But as the darkness slowly rose from the jungle floor, and Nancy continually tripped over tangled branches and roots and found herself grasping at Grant with tightened fingers, her fear for Skipper mounted. Finally Grant patted her hand. "It's all right, honey," he said as they stepped and probed slowly along, "I can see a fire up ahead." Around a huge iron cooking pot atop the soft orange glow, little brown faces shone, and then up popped one little sunbleached head. Its mouth opened and one hand stiffened out to slice the air at a make-believe coconut. "Skipper!" Nancy ran to him unaware that anyone else had observed their approach and her relief. As she knelt on the ground embracing her son, a Saipanese man arose from his squatting position in the shadows and came forward into the light. "This your boy, Missus?" "Oh, yes," Nancy said, "and we were so worried!" "Him good boy." "Thank you." She stroked Skipper's hair with her hand. "T give you a drink?" he asked. "No, thank you," Grant said, "we have to get back to the rest of our family." "IT give you banana!" He disappeared back into the shadows as the three of them stood selfconsciously in the firelight. Then the man appeared again, this time with a large stock of green bananas supported on his shoulder. He hesitated and pointed back into the shadows. "You see old woman over there? She watch you. She say you look like Americano plane lady." "Like what?" "Old woman like big secret. You can come again tomorrow, when it light?" Nancy and Grant exchanged puzzled glances. "T guess so."

"T guess we can come back." The old woman in the shadows shook her head vigorously. "Not aim," the man said, you."