[Vol1 | July 1914 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Lesson III]

July HEALTH AND HYGIENE Lesson III. (Forty Minutes.) IPublic Health.
Public health may best be maintained through the interest and efforts of individuals in accordance with principles of Hygiene.
Every member of a community should have at heart the welfare of all the others.
The conduct of each day should be prompted by conscience and active interest.
When a country is newly settled there is less likely to be sickness of certain kinds; but as the communities get older, and the soil becomes more impregnated with waste matter, it becomes more and more necessary to guard the sanitary conditions and use precautions against sickness.
Families as well as individuals should use the greatest precautions against the spread of disease.
Very valuable lives have been sacrificed just for want of care.
Every community, no matter how young, or small, should have a health committee to look after a pure water supply, drainage and sanitary conditions generally.
Quarantine regulations should be carefully carried out. 'The wonderful preservation of health among the Jewish people is attributed to the observance of the wise Mosaic laws which gave such ample advice on hygiene, sanitation, and the isolation of people who were sick.
When nations about them were stricken with epidemics of disease, the law-abiding Jews seemed immune.
The topic giver may name some of these Mosaic laws as obtained from the Bible.
Consider the Word of Wisdom and the promises made therein.
To promote the welfare of the community, the individuals must cultivate habits of cleanliness and niceness.
Special habits, such as use of tobacco, narcotics, food or drink that is injurious, must be overcome.
All evil passions must be placed and kept under control. "An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure." IIA Few Dont's. (They will help to prevent the spread of disease.) Don't sneeze in public.
If you must sneeze, use your handkerchief.
. 9 Don't cough in public.
It is largely a matter of habit.
If you must cough, screen it with handkerchief or hand.
Don't spit.
Above all things, don't spit on sidewalk or in public places.
Don't go from any case of contagious disease without having body, and particularly hair and clothing, thoroughly disinfected.
Ill Breathing-.
In the first place, have the best air obtainable. can We live for a time without food or without drink, but we cannot live_ long without air.
We should always sit or stand in an upright position and take deep breaths.  Lips Closed.
The lips should be kept closed for breathing purposes and the air inhaled through the nose.
When children breathe habitually with open mouths, their parents should consult a physician.
Drinking Cups.
It is a well-known fact that people should have' their individual drinking vessels.
Some states have laws that do not permit of public drinking cups.
On the Pullman cars glasses are not provided unless asked for.
It is a good thing when wearied from indoor routine or sitting long, to step outside and with lips closed, head erect, shoulders back and elbows down, to inhale the fresh air slowly, and exhale slowly.
Some people raise themselves on the balls of the feet while inhaling and lower themselves while exhaling.
Try some of these simple exercises and see how restful and renewing they are.
If chilled while out in cold weather, some warmth and comfort may be obtained by taking a few specially long, deep breaths.
When leaving a Avarm room to go out into the cold air, be sure to close the lips before the first intake into the lungs of the changed atmosphere.
People whose business requires them to remain much indoors will derive benefit from observing these simple directions.
Sleeping porches or outside beds, to supply plentiful fresh air while sleeping, are coming to be considered necessities by many people.
Also, there are those who make a practice of eating or living outdoors as much as circumstances will allow.
The people whose business requires them to be outdoors have many advantages over the indoor workers, as well as some disadvantages.
.
IV Fresh Air in the Home.
As people grow in civilization they seem to consider more the need of fresh air in the homes and public buildings.
All modern school buildings have special thought and care as to ventilation.
Places of public worship should also be well ventilated.
If doors and windows were thrown wide open after each service it would be a good practice.
No matter how cold the weather, where people sleep in houses, each bedroom slept in should have the windows open every night.
It is also a good plan to open wide the doors, letting a full draught of air sweep through the house for a short time each morning.
There should be a constant inflow of fresh air into the homes, even in cold weather.
Windows lowered slightly from the top give fresh air without exposing the inmates of the home to danger.
Or the lower sash may be raised slightly and the space between sash and window filled with a strip of wood or with other material.
Fresh air will enter between the upper and lower sashes.
A fire on the hearth or in the grate, besides being so cheerful and pleasant, produces a change of atmosphere that is considered very beneficial.
VReview Questions.
How may public health best be maintained?
What about quarantine regulations?
To what is attributed the great health of the Jews as a people?
Mention some of the Mosaic laws. "What bearing has the Word of Wisdom on health?
Speak of some of the actions which menace the health of the public.
What provision is made in your town for individual drinking cups?
What about the air we breathe?
What about lips when breathing?
Name some breathing exercises.
What can you say of outdoor living for health?
What about fresh air in the homes and public places?