School Lunches By Lucy Rose Middleton we are confronted with the problem of the noon lunch for school children. There are millions of children in America who live too far from the school house to come home for the mid-day meal. Providing attractive and adequate box lunches for these children is therefore worthy of careful attention by all the mothers of this youthful army. The menu should be varied to S EPTEMBER is here and again avoid monotony and to provide the element of surprise, which appeals so strongly to a child's nature. The foods which supply the body with energy, heat, tissue building material, minerals, and vitamins should appear in correct amounts. The bread in the sandwich acts as starch. Some whole grain bread should be used to furnish needed minerals and _ to guard against an excessively starchy diet. The filling can provide the protein. As much filling should be used as the child would eat of that particular food were it served to him at home on a plate. A small mayonnaise jar filled with bottled fruit, fruited jello set in paper cups, or a cup custard are good additions to the lunch. If a thermos bottle is used, hot soups, milk, fruit juices, and cocoa may be included. Remember also the value of fresh fruit. No lunch is complete without it. SANDWICH FILLINGS 1. Cream cheese, chopped olives, and nuts. 2. Hard-cooked eggs, finely chopped, mixed with salad dressing. 3. Nuts and raisins mixed with salad dressing. 4. Apples, nuts, and mayonnaise dressing. 5. Peanut butter and jelly. 6. Date and cream cheese. 7. Scrambled eggs, bacon, and lettuce. 8. Ground ham and pickles mixed with salad dressing. 9. Dried fruit, cooked and sweetened, and nuts. (1 cup fruit, chopped to 4 cup nuts. 10. Sliced ham and currant jelly. 11. Grated carrots and pineapple. 12. Sea foods, such as tuna, salmon, shrimps, mixed with salad dressing and shredded lettuce. HERMITS 1 cup butter 2 cups brown sugar 2 eggs Y, cup chopped raisins 1 cup walnuts 3 cups flour 1 teaspoon soda in 4 cup boiling water Cream butter and sugar together; add eggs well beaten, then small quantity of flour. Afterwards, add soda in water and the remainder of flour, then nuts and raisins. Drop by spoonsfuls on buttered cookie sheet. Bake in moderately slow oven (325 degrees F.). Nut OATMEAL COOKIES 1/4 cup butter 1/4 cup shortening 1 cup sugar 1 egg, well beaten 5 tablespoons milk 134 cup rolled oats Y, cup seeded raisins % cup chopped nuts SCHOOL LUNCHES, 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/2 teaspoon soda 3/4 teaspoon cinnamon 1/2 teaspoon cloves 1/2 teaspoon allspice Cream shortening, and add sugar gradually, then add eggs, milk, rolled oats, raisins cut in pieces, and nuts. Mix and sift flour with remaining ingredients and add to first mixture. Drop from tip of spoon on buttered cookie sheet 1 inch apart and bake 15 minutes in moderately hot oven (350 degrees F.) GINGERBREAD 2 3/4 cups flour 3 teaspoons baking powder, 1/2 teaspoon salt 1 teaspoon ginger 2/3 cup molasses 1/3 cup brown sugar 1 egg l4 cup melted fat, cooled Sift dry ingredients together. Mix molasses, sugar, 1 eggs, and shortening. Add dry ingredients to make a soft dough. Arrange in desired shapes on buttered cookie sheet and bake 12 to 15 minutes at 375 degrees. Gingerbread men may be made and their clothing supplied by icings of various colors. 523 ORANGE Drop COOKIES Ye cup butter 2/3 cup sugar 2 eggs 3 cups pastry flour 3 teaspoons baking powder 1/3 teaspoon salt Grated rind of 1 or 2 oranges Strained juice of 1 large orange Cream butter and sugar well together. Add unbeaten eggs, one at a time and beat with this mixture. Then add grated rind. Add alternately the sifted dry ingredients with the orange juice. Drop on buttered cookie sheet and bake 10 minutes in 375 degree oven. BANBURY TARTS 1 cup seeded raisins, chopped 1 cup sugar 1 egg, slightly beaten 1 tablespoon cracker crumbs Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon Plain pastry Mix raisins, sugar, egg, crumbs, lemon juice and rind together. Roll plain pastry 1/8 inch thick and cut pieces 3 1/2 inches long by 3 inches wide. Put 2 teaspoons of mixture on each. Moisten edge half way around with cold water, fold over, press edges together with 3-tined fork. Bake 20 minutes in "moderate oven (350 degrees. ).