Three Weeks at the Canning Factory By Eunice I. Gardner THE canning factory was in full swing. I had been fortunate in securing work at the pea belt sorting peas at eighteen cents per hour. It was tedious work— tedious and uninteresting to say the least—but a few dollars earned during a summer of no income (my husband being a poor country school teacher) looked very alluring to me. So I joined the group of women and girls, and in uniform and cap I began my work at the belt. Shall I ever forget the first day! I had risen at 4 A. M. In order to get my husband and two sons off to the canyon for wood and to outline the day's activities for my three little girls who were anxious to keep house during mother's absence. When I was assigned my place and the peas came sailing by, I felt quite elated and important to be one of the number doing my bit toward canning peas for the hungry world. However, as time passed by and the stream of green peas seemed unceasing, it was with difficulty that I kept at work, as the motion of the belt combined with my few hours of sleep the previous night caused me to feel very drowsy indeed. However, we ceased work earlier than usual, so I didn't become too discouraged. I made my way to the waiting automobile feeling very much like one just coming out from under the influence of gas.
The following morning we commenced work at 6 A. M. I learned to keep my gaze on the on-coming peas instead of those that had passed me, and in this manner I avoided extreme dizziness. Thus it is in life—if we keep our gaze on the oncoming events we do not allow past mistakes to blind our vision or impair our powers. The employees at the belt weren't allowed to converse with one another, so I beguiled the hours with rehearsing in my mind several poems I had memorized. I found that certain ones fitted exactly with the rhythm of the machinery, and these I repeated many times. Popular songs, and Latter-day Saint hymns and little action songs I used to teach the Kindergarten children—these were all reviewed and renewed with interest. When I discovered that I could think over plans and not neglect my work, I let my mind become engrossed in interior decorating. This pleasant exercise consumed otherwise tedious hours. My mental excursions included plans for picnics and hikes, remodeling dresses, concocting school lunches, devising stunts for 4-H Club work, mapping out P. T. A. Programs, and lingering over happy childhood scenes, and activities of long ago. Each day seemed to bring new ideas and I never lacked for material with which to entertain myself.
Alexander Woolcott, in an article "I'm Glad I'm Absent-Minded," says: "For those of us who are absent-minded a stalled taxi does not a prison make, nor iron bars a cage." My hours spent at the canning factory were not wholly spent sorting peas—I lived in new surroundings and enjoyed strange and lovely experiences.
We are told that responsibility develops capability. My children became more capable in the various household tasks which they assumed during my absence and also appeared much more appreciative of my efforts about the home than formerly. How happily the little girls would run to meet me each evening, and what loving confidences and humorous stories of their day's work they would relate to me! My husband, who fortunately is an excellent cook, kept the household machinery in good order and thus made life happier for all concerned. When I returned home about 2:30 P. M. On the Fourth of July after beginning work at 6 A. M., how grateful I felt to sit down to a delicious hot dinner of summer vegetables and sour-cream biscuits followed with ice cream and birthday cake—it being the twelfth birthday anniversary of our oldest daughter. Grandma and Grandpa, an aunt and two sisters came from Salt Lake to join us in our family celebration. We were all present with the exception of our oldest son who was playing in a band in a nearby town. Our town did not celebrate Independence Day, so most of the citizens were attending celebrations at neighboring towns.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
After dinner we brought out the guitar and harmonica and sat on the lawn, and Daddy and Aunt Sylvia played while Grandma step-danced and Grandpa sang. As we do not own a car we couldn't very well go away for a "talkie" in the evening, so we made a huge bonfire and the children were very happy as they played "Run, Sheep, Run," "Cheese It" and other games. The next afternoon I was at the factory again, and for two more weeks I worked and planned and dreamed and finally was rewarded with a few dollars which were highly acceptable. I had daily met with congenial friends during the lunch hour and had become better acquainted with them, and I have profited by the valuable philosophy of their lives. So truly we know that there is no loss without some gain—and the tedium of the work was overcome with the flights of fancy. I can say with Oliver Goldsmith: "Every situation in life might bring its own peculiar pleasures."