Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony (First Week in October)
OBEDIENCE TO LAW THE BASIS OF REWARD
LESSON X
1. Sectarian Conception of Grace. The grace of God as conceived and taught by numerous sectarian organizations is the unmerited love and favor of Deity, especially as shown in the salvation freely provided for mankind. In a word, the doctrine teaches that Deity extends salvation to whomsoever he chooses, irrespective of their works or deserts. Accordingly, the earthly deeds of God's children are not determining factors in the condition of future life. In still other words, rewards of eternal life are not given on the basis of merit, but rather as the result of Divine will. Nor is this interpretation entirely without scriptural support; that is in isolated passages. For example: In his epistle to the saints at Ephesus, Paul the apostle declares, "For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God: not of works, lest any man should boast." (Ephesians 2:8, 9.) Paul conveys essentially the same thought in his second letter to the saints at Corinth, as follows, which are the words of Christ to him: "My grace is sufficient for thee: for my strength is made perfect in weakness." (II Corinthians 12:9.) According to the point of view set out at the beginning of this paragraph, the scriptures just quoted are interpreted to mean that the grace of God is sufficient unto salvation irrespective of the deeds of those upon whom it falls.
2. An Application of this Point of View. The writer of this lesson at one time lived in the same neighborhood as an old woman who raised and sold flowers for a living. She loved her flowers; they were almost a part of her, and she was generous in giving them to her friends. I have seen her repeatedly pass my home, knee-deep in snow, with her arms filled with flowers as a gift to a sympathizing friend. In course of time she died. She had not been a member of any church; indeed, it is doubtful that she had even formally acknowledged faith in the saving grace of God. A simple funeral service was arranged at the home and a sectarian minister was invited to officiate. Among other things, he voiced his regret that the woman had not confessed belief in Christ, and expressed fear that because of this any reward for her in the future was gravely uncertain.
3. At about the same time a rollicking school boy of fourteen years returned to his home, in the same neighborhood, for his noon-day luncheon. His mother, a widow, was a school teacher and hence was away from home. The boy opened the front door and went through a long hall to the kitchen, where, greatly to his surprise, he found a thief ransacking the house. The boy ran toward the front door, and while doing so the thief shot him in the back. The momentum of the boy's body carried him through the front door, across the porch, and on to the lawn, where he died before being able to tell what had happened. In course of time, the murderer was apprehended, tried, and adjudged guilty. On the day set for his execution he called in his spiritual adviser and confessed guilt. Whereupon he was assured that all was well with his soul.
4. It is needless to say that circumstances such as these are an offense to good judgment. It is everything but reasonable to assume that Deity would consign the old woman to everlasting punishment, and the murderer to eternal bliss. Such a thing would be abhorrent even to the basest of human beings. It is little wonder, therefore, that sectarianism is unattractive to many people who believe in the justice of God and who therefore deny themselves the advantage of church affiliation, which otherwise they would choose to accept. Christianity, alas, has suffered much because of man's inability properly to interpret it.
5. Necessity of Good Works. It is difficult to understand why the doctrine of unmerited rewards is acceptable to any believer in Christ, unless it is because of the widespread desire among men to obtain something for nothing, since the doctrine is unfair to both God and man. Even Paul's statement to the Ephesians, upon which the "grace" conception of salvation is largely based, does not teach the futility of good works. Indeed, quite to the contrary. After declaring himself with respect to the potency of grace (Ephesians 2:8, 9) he emphatically states that men are the workmanship of God "created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them." (Ephesians 2:10.) This point alone makes the truth perfectly clear that good works are basic to the grace of God and indispensable to those who receive Divine favor.
6. Listen further, however, to the words of this same Paul to his beloved Titus, whom he describes as his "own son after the common faith:" "This is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable unto men." (Titus 3:8.) To the Romans Paul declared that "the judgment of God is according to truth," and that he "will render to every man according to his deeds: to them who, by patient continuance in well doing, seek for glory and honor and immortality, eternal life: but unto them that are contentious, and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, indignation and wrath." (Romans 2:6-8.)
7. James, a disciple of Christ, was even more emphatic. To the scattered tribes of Israel he said: "Be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves." (James 1:22.) Again: "What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit? Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. * * * Wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? * * * For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also." (James 2:14-26.) The unmistakable words of the apostle John are well known to all: "He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of God perfected: hereby we know that we are in him." (I John 2:4, 5.) The same disciple further declares: "And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works." (Revelation 20:12.)
8. By Grace Are Ye Saved. On the other hand, perhaps no one would defend the idea that man, unaided by divine power, is able to save himself in the kingdom of God, irrespective of the character of his works. In other words, man alone is wholly impotent to bring himself back into the presence of the Father. Such being the case, it is evident that the necessary help must be freely extended to him from on high. Moreover, it will hardly be argued that Deity is under any obligation whatsoever to give this help. It is evident, therefore, that salvation is a free gift from God to man. Men are thus truly and literally saved by the grace of God, not by their works lest they should boast.
9. But let us hasten to another viewpoint. An illustration may assist to better understanding. In many of the larger educational institutions of the world, so-called fellowships and scholarships have been established for the assistance of deserving students. The purpose behind the launching of these benefits is wholly philanthropic. The founder is under no obligation to those for whom he thus provides; his offering is a free gift. But it being a free gift, the donor is likewise free to name the conditions under which the benefits shall be allowed. High scholastic standing, good moral character, physical fitness, dependability, industry, etc., are usually placed foremost among the stipulated requirements. These rewards are everywhere known to be free gifts from the founder, and it is also known that they cannot be obtained without making the necessary preparation.
10. It need scarcely be said that these coveted scholarships are never awarded to indifferent or unprepared students, but only to those who have equipped themselves to properly benefit by the gift. It cannot be said that even the worthy student has earned the reward, since the donor is in no way obligated to offer it. The benefit is thus a free gift to those who prepare themselves to meet the stipulations.
11. So it is with the blessings of God. Deity is not obligated to save men in his kingdom. Conversely, men have no ability of their own to reach it. Deity, on the other hand, has offered the gift of salvation to all of those who properly prepare themselves. Salvation is thus a free gift from God; it is by his grace that men are saved. But Deity, like the donor of educational scholarships, extends the reward only to those who meet his requirements.
12. Futility of Unmerited Rewards. The uselessness of unmerited rewards should be apparent without comment. No advantage could accrue, for example, to the indifferent and failing student by giving him a scholarship to an educational institution for which he had made no preparation, since the advanced facilities thus offered would have no meaning for him. Likewise, it would be futile to send a man to heaven who had not made requisite preparation; a murderer, for example, would be ill at ease in the presence of the Master. People are able to enjoy only those things for which they are prepared. This matter is made exceptionally clear in the following statement of the Lord relating to the future condition of men's spirits: "He who is not able to abide the law of a celestial kingdom cannot abide a celestial glory. And he who cannot abide the law of a terrestrial kingdom cannot abide a terrestrial glory. And he who cannot abide the law of a telestial kingdom cannot abide a telestial glory; therefore he is not meet for a kingdom of glory. Therefore, he must abide a kingdom which is not a kingdom of glory." (D. & C. 88:22-24.)
13. Obedience a Basic Requirement. Perhaps the most pertinent instruction ever given by Deity to man relative to the necessity of obedience is the following: "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated?And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." (D. & C. 130:21, 22.) This information was given April 2, 1843, at Ramus, Illinois, and repeated three months later at Nauvoo
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
in slightly different language, as follows: "All who will have a blessing at my hands shall abide the law which was appointed for that blessing, and the conditions thereof, as were instituted from before the foundation of the world." (D. & C. 132:5.).
Suggestions for Discussion and Review
1. In what sense are men actually saved by the grace of God and not by their own works? Is salvation a gift from God? Why?
2. Why is the sectarian doctrine of unmerited rewards contrary to the wisdom and justice of God?
3. Why is it possible for man to enjoy only those things for which he has made preparation?
4. Why are good works a pre-requisite to salvation? Why would it be impossible for a hardened sinner to enjoy the presence of God?
5. Why do good works prepare one for the enjoyment of God's blessings? Why is it that laggards do not enjoy, say, the reading of good books?
Teachers' Topic
THE GREAT OBJECTIVE OF LIFE
The great objective of life is to obtain exaltation and to become like God.
Scriptural Text: "And we will prove them herewith, to see if they will do all things whatsoever the Lord their God shall command them.
"And they who keep their first estate shall be added upon; and they who keep not their first estate shall not have glory in the same kingdom with those who keep their first estate; and they who keep their second estate shall have glory added upon their heads forever and ever." Abraham 3:25-26.
"Man is that he might have joy." 2 Nephi 2:25.
References: Moses 1:38-39; Matt. 5:48, 6:33; Rev. 21:7.
The pre-existent state was one of preparation and proving for the second estate, to see if the spirits of men would be worthy of this earth-life, or mortality. Spirits were unable to obtain an exaltation without bodies of flesh and bones and the experiences of mortality. The earth-life is of two-fold nature (a) That spirits who kept their first estate might be clothed with tabernacles of flesh and bones in preparation for the resurrection and immortality and eternal life; (b) That all who receive bodies might in this life be proved and found worthy or otherwise.
Our worthiness brings a fulness of joy. Discuss what a fulness of joy means. The great battle of life is the pursuit of happiness, and we should have joy in this life as well as the life to come. Brigham Young said: "Our work is a work of the present. The salvation we are seeking is for the present and sought correctly, it can be obtained, and be continually enjoyed. I am decidedly in favor of practical religion of everyday useful life, and if I today attend to what devolves upon me to do, and then do that which presents itself tomorrow, and so on, when eternity comes I will be prepared to enter in the things of eternity."
Our joy now and in life to come is dependent on progression made here. "Progression is the successfully meeting problems of this life day by day, a harmonious development of all our powers."
We should be thoroughly impressed with the fact that character building is the most important business of this mortal life, for true character brings to the individual joy now, and helps to bring a fulness of joy in the life to come. "Be ye therefore perfect as your Father in heaven is perfect." This is the goal we are seeking.
Literature (Third Week in October)
LIFE AND LITERATURE
LESSON I
"Books without the knowledge of life are useless, for what should books teach us but the art of living." ?Dr. Samuel Johnson.
IN the "Book of Literature," Man, the author, has recorded his experiences in the pursuit of the Good, the True, and the Beautiful in Life. The measure of civilization lies in the opportunities provided for man to attain his highest development. History has recorded the material facts of human progress; discovery, conquest, expansion, dominion. Literature has recorded what man has thought and felt as with Ulysses-like courage he has continued through the ages "to strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield" in his quest for Happiness.
Life and Literature.
THE world in which man found himself was a world of mystery. The external world, the world of Nature, was his first problem. He must live; nutrition and security he must have. The inner world, the world of Self, of appetites, passions, emotions, impulses, provided never-ending conflicts. Then there were the universal mysteries, Life and Death. Man learned first to conquer; then to understand.
In the conquest of the external world, man became a hero. During the dawn of civilization, Man recorded in his "Book of Literature" his heroic experiences. As the ages passed, man sought to understand. Now he dealt in ideas. He made for himself simple explanations of the mysteries that baffled him. These explanations were made in human terms; thus to him, day came when Apollo drove the chariot of the sun across the sky, and when one day the strange phenomenon of an eclipse of the sun occurred, it was because Apollo had allowed his inexperienced son to drive the chariot. These beautiful story-explanations were recorded as myths.
Later the mind of man became dissatisfied with the primitive explanations; his desire for that which is true grew apace. Man's quest for truth has provided the world with that body of information known as scientific fact with all its utilitarian values.
Gradually, there arose in man a new need. He was surrounded by Good and Evil; he became aware of the constructive and destructive forces at work in the world. This was a spiritual need; he needed to know the meaning of honor, virtue, and morality. But most of all he needed an ethical code for his guidance. Out of the early spiritual experiences of man grew the beginnings of the systems of philosophy and ethics which have been refining factors of civilization.
Similarly, man became aware of Beauty. He saw that harmony was beautiful; he felt it also. The desire came first to represent that which was beautiful; later, man desired to create that which was beautiful. This was the origin of Art.
For centuries Man's "Book of Literature" existed in oral form. Out of his desire for a permanent record, the art of writing grew. Only a few of the civilizations that rose, flourished, and died when the world was young enshrined their heroism and their wisdom in the permanent form of literature. Don Marquis, one of today's singers, gives a reason for the oblivion of the others:
"By Tigris o'er the streams of Ind, Ere Colchis rose, or Babylon, Forgotten empires dreamed or sinned, Setting tall towns against the dawn.
They built with gold and bronze and brawn, The inner Vision still denied, Their conquests?Ask oblivion, 'They had no poet, and they died.'"
The Making of Literature.
LITERATURE is an art of expression. Life-experience is the material out of which all great literature is made. It may be made of the experience of a single individual, as Shelley's "Ode to a Skylark;" it may be made of the experience of a nation, as Homer's "Iliad;" it may be made of the experience of a religion, as Milton's "Paradise Lost." As such expression literature becomes the foremost of the great humanities. Also, as such, it is a record, a criticism, a prophecy. As a record it presents life as it appears; as a criticism of life it is an explanation and an interpretation; as a prophecy of life "it reveals the hidden loveliness of the world, it points out the ideal that is ever seeking to push through the husks of things to reveal the inner spiritual reality."
The art of expression is not an accident; the makers of literature have striven first, to follow the Sophoclean example "to see life steadily and see it whole," then, to attain a beauty of form and expression: The Greek genius, zest for life, keen power of analysis, thirst for knowledge, splendid originality, vigorous imagination, fondness for beauty, when applied to literature yielded a product which has remained unexcelled through the ages. Aristotle, at the close of the creative epoch of Greek life, looked at the literary product of his race and recorded the principles which had made for perfection. This first literary lawmaker in the "Poetics" gave to makers of literature the doctrine of art?a work of art is a likeness of the original, or a reproduction as it appears to the individual, or an expression of the universal element in human life, or an idealized representation of human life.
Latin literature followed the classic tradition established by the Greeks. Horace, the great Latin satirist, added the principle that literature was "to instruct and to delight." Longinus (lon ji nus) in the third century, evolved the principle of sublimity "to lift one out of oneself."
The classic pattern of literature lay hidden during the Dark Ages. Early Christian influence in Europe stifled any freedom of expression with its "other worldliness" and its censorial attitude. Medieval Europe recorded its romance in ballad and story through its troubadors and minstrels.
Then came the re-discovery of the Greek and Latin classics. The invention of printing, the Reformation, the discovery of the New World marked the passing of the old order of things and ushered in an intellectual new-birth. The great literary product of the Elizabethan Age was the result in England. In France also there was a period of great literary productivity. The French sought to follow slavishly the classic tradition, allowing no liberality. They denounced the Elizabethans; Shakespeare for too much romance, Sir Philip Sydney for claiming for the poet "that he may teach, that he may delight, that he may move," Dryden for his theory that literature was an organic force which develops with the nation and the age. The battle of the chief makers of literature raged for almost a century. Freedom came with a new school of writers, Lessing and Goethe in Germany, Coleridge and Wordsworth in England. Poetry now became "the blossom and the fragrance of all human knowledge, human thoughts, human passions, emotions, language."
The last century produced two great literary guides, Matthew Arnold and Sainte-Beuve (sant buv). Matthew Arnold, the English poet and critic, wrote that "Poetry is a criticism of life?The true end of art, and of poetry especially is, like religion to strengthen and uphold the heart with high aspirations and consolations." Sainte-Beuve, the greatest of French critics, claimed that a true classic "enriches the human mind, discovers some great truth, reveals some eternal passion?in no matter what literary form only provided it be broad and great, refined and sensible, sane and beautiful in itself." So spoke Homer to the human race as he told an epic story, so also did Sophocles in dramas revealing the victoriousness of life, so also did Shakespeare in the delineation of human character.
As a revolt against the moral values of literature supported by the writings and teachings of the great critics, Arnold and Sainte-Beuve, there arose a new claim, that of "Art for Art's Sake." This conflict continues.
Today a comparatively new literary form is creating much consternation with its growing pains, fiction, that form into which experience is cast by means of the imagination. The present age is a "Battle of Books." Commercialism and fashion are the literary rulers. It is a new age, the industrial age. Life has new materials, wealth, luxury, and power with hunger, injustice, and reaction stalking alongside. The makers of literature in the present age have difficult tasks. The man of today will be heroic, what beautiful, what moral? Fiction, in the throes of the struggle with commercialism, is in the refining stage. Less hampered than the fiction makers, the poets are singing bravely and well. Through revolt and struggle a new humanism is molding literature, a democratic humanism.
For obvious reasons the ordinary reader needs guidance. Literary counsel is not far to seek, and there is an abundance of it. Fashion and counsel should not be confused. Counsel follows the traditional path, the way of the makers of great books; fashion follows the path of popularity. Emerson in discussing the value of literary counsel states: "Nothing is more important for the reader who loves literature than to become intimately acquainted with its great makers; for they alone can guide him in his judgments, can teach him to distinguish merit, and can enable him to estimate literary values for himself."
To be wise in the ways of the makers of literature "helps the ear to listen when the horns of Elfland blow."
The Enjoyment of Literature.
THE world of the reader is a wonderful world. He can sail the seas with Ulysses, explore the depths and the highest heaven with Dante, listen to the sweet songs of Sappho and Shelley, learn wisdom from Socrates and Emerson, and laugh with Sam Weller and Tom Sawyer. The reader's friends, as his adventures, are legion. From all ages and climes they gather at his bidding; Joseph the dreamer, Andromache, Hamlet, Dr. Johnson and Boswell will be among them.
"Books of Power," "Best Sellers of the Ages," "Much Loved Books" are some of the names given to the great masterpieces of Literature. It has been said that one who has read the Hebrew prophets, the Greek dramatists, and Shakespeare has a view of the greatness of life necessary for true enjoyment.
"Dreams, books, are each a world; and books we know Are a substantial world, pure and good, Round these, with tendrils strong as flesh and blood Our pastime and our happiness will grow." ?Wordsworth.
Sohrab and Rustum?Matthew Arnold.
The Poet's Way.
THE source of a poet's inspiration has been explained in many ways; to Wordsworth, it was the "spirit of the universe," to Emerson it was "the oversoul," to "AE" it was "the King in His beauty," to Milton it was "God." As the poet gazes on life he finds the hidden message that is waiting its spiritual expression. Many of the great masters of literature have used the classic pattern to carry their inspiration to mankind.
The Poet. Matthew Arnold.
SINCE the Golden Age of Greece there has been no sincerer admirer and student of the classic tradition than the English poet, Matthew Arnold. His activity as a poet belongs to the earlier part of his life. In addition to "Sohrab and Rustum" his best poetical works include a beautiful version of the medieval legend of "Tristram and Iseult" and "Rugby Chapel," a tribute to his father, the renowned headmaster of Rugby. In 1851 he became the government inspector of schools in Great Britain, which position he held for thirty-five years. In later life he became a leading apostle of culture, through the lectures and essays embodying his ideals. Because of the nature and quality of his writings, Matthew Arnold holds a high place among the great masters of literature.
The Poem.
"SOHRAB AND RUSTUM" is a noble poem. With a sustained grandeur of style, a simplicity of language, and a wealth of graphic detail the author tells a poignantly tragic story. From the echoes of the mist-land of ancient Persia came the story. The poet Firdusi (f?r dou's?) (born 935 A. D.) recorded the story as part of the epic poem "Shah Nameh" (shah na ma), the Persian "Book of Kings." Firdusi was commanded by his king to gather the chronicles of Persia from the earliest heroic times, 3600 B. C., and weave them into a poem so that:
"No tide Shall wash away what men Unborn shall read o'er ocean wide."
Arnold took from the poem the tragic story of the great national hero, Rustum (rtis'ttm), who unwittingly slays his own son, Sohrab. Love of family is the human note in the story. Sohrab seeks to be worthy of his renowned father; Rustum longs for a valiant warrior son. Over the story hangs the mist of Oriental fate; "Fate always gets where it will." The land of the Persians is being overrun by the Tartars, and in "the carnage wide blood flowed like water." In their great distress the Persians implored their great leader, Zal, the greatest warrior the world had ever known, to come to their aid. The ancient warrior sent his son, Rustum, to fight in his stead. Rustum had just taken as his bride the beautiful princess, Tamineh (ta min'ah). Rustum went when called by his father to fight for his king. In due time the lovely Tamineh gave birth to a beautiful boy whom she called Sohrab (sunshine), but fearing lest Rustum should take him away and train him as a warrior, she sent word to him that she had given birth to a daughter. Rustum was kept so busy with the wars that he never once visited his wife while his son was growing up. For a long time Tamineh jealously guarded the secret of Sohrab's birth. But when she could no longer keep him from going forth to battle, she told him her story:
"Listen, my child, and you shall hear Of the wondrous love of a maiden dear For a mighty warrior, the pride of his day Who loved, and married, and rode away, For this is the romance of Rustum." ?"Shah Nameh."
The lad, who had always cherished a romantic admiration for Rustum, was overjoyed to learn of his origin. Sohrab joined Afrasiab, the chief of the Tartars, to further a plan to overthrow the Persian king and to place Rustum on the throne. The war raged on giving the young warrior many adventures. Sohrab, anxious for an opportunity to distinguish himself, challenged the Persians to a single combat:
"Come then, hear now, and grant me what I ask. Let the two armies rest today; but I Will challenge forth the bravest Persian lords To meet me, man to man; if I prevail, Rustum will surely hear it; if I fall? Old man, the dead need no one, claim no kin. Dim is the rumor of a common fight, Where host meets host, and many names are sunk; But of a single combat fame speaks clear."
Peran-Wisa, the old Tartar general, pleaded with the restless youth:
"But, if this one desire indeed rules all, To seek out Rustum?seek him not through fight! Seek him in peace, and carry to his arms O Sohrab, carry an unwounded son!"
The pleading was in vain, so Peran Wisa took the challenge to the Persian camp. None of the Persians would volunteer to meet Sohrab, so they appealed to Rustum. At first he refused to be moved by Sohrab's vaunts. Later, however, he is moved to action, and agrees to fight unknown and in plain arms. Sohrab came forth, came seeking Rustum. The old warrior wondered as he eyed the adventurous youth:
"Who was he For very young he seemed, tenderly reared Like some young cypress, tall, and dark, and straight, Which in a queen's secluded garden throws Its slight dark shadow on the moonlit turf, By midnight, to a bubbling fountain's sound? So slender Sohrab seemed, so softly reared. And a deep pity entered Rustum's soul As he beheld him coming;.... 'O Sohrab, wherefore wilt thou rush on death?
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Be governed; quit the Tartar host, and come To Iran, and be as my son to me, And fight beneath my banner till I die! There are no youths in Iran brave as thou. So he spake, mildly;'"
Sohrab was strangely moved, and, running to meet him, begged to know his name, for he had premonition that this was Rustum. Notwithstanding Sohrab's eager inquiries, Rustum refused to divulge his name:
"And then he turned and sternly spake aloud? 'Rise! Wherefore dost thou vainly question thus Of Rustum? I am here whom thou hast called By challenge forth; make good thy vaunt or yield! Is it with Rustum only thou wouldst fight?"
For three consecutive days father and son fought. Several times the son proposed that they sheathe their swords, for his heart continued to be attracted to his opponent, who, fighting down similar emotions, always taunted his antagonist into renewing the fight. On the fifth day Rustum, forgetting everything in the excitement of the moment, met his foe with his usual war cry, "Rustum, Rustum." Sohrab, hearing the shout, stood bewildered, and instead of meeting the onslaught, he sank beneath his father's blow:
"For that beloved name unnerved my arm,? That name, and something, I confess, in thee, Which troubles all my heart, and made my shield Fall; and thy spear transfixed an unarmed foe. The mighty Rustum shall avenge my death! My father, whom I seek through all the world, He shall avenge my death, and punish thee!"
On hearing these words, Rustum anxiously demanded explanations, only to learn that he had mortally wounded his own son. The father would gladly have died with his son in his anguish but Sohrab pleaded:
"Desire not that, my father! Thou must live. For some are born to do great deed, and live, As some are born to be obscured, and die."
And "Awe fell on both the hosts, When they saw Rustum's grief."
The poem is more than an episode, it is a perfect illustration of what Matthew Arnold meant by his claim that literature "is a criticism of life."
Suggestions for Study
A. Materials.
1. The Story of the World's Literature, Chapters 1-3.....................Macy
2. The Outline of Literature.......................Drinkwater
3. What Literature Can Do for Me...................Smith
4. The Appreciation of Literature.................Woodberry
5. Sohrab and Rustum...........................Arnold
B. Program.
1. Music. Poems set to music?The poems of Robert Burns.
2. Discussion. A. The Making of Books. B. The Making of Literature.
3. Reading. A. Passages from "Sohrab and Rustum." B. Lines 515-890 to conclude the narrative.
C. Method. The lesson is planned as an introductory lesson for the entire course. It is necessary that the argument be given careful consideration. The aim of the lesson is the appreciation of literature.
Social Service (Fourth Week in October)
Facts ON PHYSICAL GROWTH,
LESSON X
Knowledge plus a will to use knowledge in doing one's work gives one added power. Effective child care is dependent on the growth results of what is done for children. This lesson has two aims: 1. To develop a desire on the part of parents to use knowledge about the physical growth of children in planning their clothes, recreation, education, daily work, and other activities. 2. To give facts to be learned and used by the class members.
Suggestions for Procedure:
Assign the reading guide for careful home study. This will achieve the first aim and point out how the information given in the supplementary material has immediate value to parents and teachers. Assign for topical study, analysis and report the following items from the report of White House Conference 1930. Take time in class to have these reports given.
Relation of physical growth to poverty, pp. 143-146. Relation of physical growth to the school plant, p. 169. School lunch, p. 174.
Discuss in class the facts given in the supplementary material and encourage class members to memorize them as far as possible.
Reading guide: Growth, pp. 8-15. On page 15 it is made quite emphatic that bodily growth is essential for all development?mental and social. The material on pages 8-15 is designed to do three things for the reader: first, to make clear the difference between the absence of sickness and a condition of health and natural growth; second, to call attention to the facts regarding the rhythmic periods of rate of growth; third, to urge the application of present knowledge of caring for children's physical welfare to the things we actually do.
Problem 1. Is it justifiable to place the responsibility for children's ill-health on heredity or on parents' care? P. 8.
Problem 2. Note carefully the new definition of "Healthy growth." p. 12.
Problem 3. Make a list of the specific items listed on pages 8, 9, 13. Go to class prepared to review lessons studied in previous years on the proper care of children in respect to each of these items.
Problem 4. Be sure that you see clearly the significance of the distinction between growth in size and growth as development or maturing of functions.
Problem 5. Work out the author's belief on the relations of heredity to physical health and growth.
Problem 6. Write out a list of the growth characteristics of the ages 0-5, 6-10, 11-15. Indicate the differences between girls and boys. What educational and social problems are indicated as related to these growth periods?
Problem 7. Make similar lists of the special rhythmic and other facts about growth as given on page 11. The problems on page 13-14 are worth working out by each individual class member.
Supplementary material: Information of value in adjusting child care to the status of physical growth.
TABLE I. MEAN HEIGHTS, WEIGHTS
Obtained by United States Public Health Service (1), and Bird T. Baldwin (2). (From United States Public Health Reports, vol. 37, no. 20 (May 19, 1922), p. 1194.)
Age at Height (inches) Weight (pounds) Nearest Boys Girls Boys Girls Birthday 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2
6..........45.4 45.4 44.8 44.3 47.5 45.2 45.5 42.6 7..........46.8 47.8 46.6 46.8 50.4 50.6 48.3 48.0 8..........48.6 49.8 48.5 49.1 54.5 55.3 52.4 53.8 9..........50.7 51.5 50.5 51.1 59.6 60.7 58.0 59.7 10.........52.6 53.5 52.5 53.1 65.2 67.2 64.0 67.2 11.........54.2 55.3 54.5 55.3 71.1 73.1 70.3 74.1 12.........56.2 56.9 57.0 57.6 78.0 77.7 79.7 83.9 13.........58.0 59.3 59.3 60.1 85.1 88.4 89.7 96.2 14.........60.3 61.8 61.1 61.8 95.4 98.3 99.4 107.2 15.........62.9 64.1 62.5 62.7 108.4 109.4 107.6 115.5 16.........64.6 66.7 63.3 63.6 116.7 120.6 113.6 120.6
LESSON DEPARTMENT
This table is valuable because it shows in actual pounds and inches the average growth rate. The differences in size of girls and boys is clearly shown.
TABLE II. PERCENTAGE RATE OF INCREASE IN HEIGHT AND WEIGHT
Data from United States Public Health Reports, vol. 37, no. 20 (May, 1922), p. 1191 (1), and Baldwin, Bird T.: Physical Growth of Children from Birth to Maturity, p. 157 (2).)
  Height (percent)  Weight (percent)
Age Period Boys Girls Boys Girls 1 2 1 2 1 2 1 2
6-7..............4.0 4.1 6.1 6.2 7.2 8.0 6.8 7.2 7-8..............3.9 3.4 3.9 3.4 8.1 7.9 8.5 7.2 8-9..............3.9 3.9 4.4 4.0 9.4 11.3 10.7 13.6 9-10.............3.8 3.6 3.8 4.9 9.4 8.7 10.3 13.1 10-11............3.1 3.5 3.9 3.7 9.0 9.0 9.8 9.3 11-12............3.4 3.2 5.2 3.5 9.7 8.8 13.4 10.5 12-13............3.4 4.2 4.2 4.2 9.1 12.7 12.5 15.0 13-14............4.0 3.3 2.9 2.8 12.1 11.1 10.8 10.1 14-15............4.7 3.3 2.0 2.8 13.6 12.0 8.2 11.0 15-16............3.0 3.1 1.5 1.1 7.7 10.2 5.6 3.7 16-17............2.1 0.1 7.5 0.5
Average 3.48 3.40 9.92 9.40
The relatively slow rate of growth at about six, the very rapid rate preceding adolescence are clearly shown. The sex differences to be expected are indicated. The tables are to be used for reference. No single child will be expected to show the exact height and weight shown on the table but his progress will correspond somewhat closely to that shown in the tables. Special parental care must be taken during periods of rapid growth. Unnecessary worry and forced feeding and other attentions are to be avoided during the periods of relatively slow growth. (Tables from the Hygiene of the School Child?by Terman and Almack). 3. Much use has been made of height-weight tables in recent years in order to check the growth of individual children. These tables have very little value because of the many factors which enter into the height and weight of the child. On this point Terman and Almack say: "The growth status of the individual can never be evaluated by a table of norms computed from the growth averages. Each individual is a law unto himself. A school child may be several inches shorter and many pounds lighter than the average for children of his age, race, and sex, while fully reaching the standard which nature set for him. Nor can we set any limits above and below which abnormality is reliably indicated in the individual child. Measurements of size can give little clue to the normality of the processes within.?(Hygiene of the School Child, p. 24). It is much more important that growth be continuous. Children shouldn't stop growing. This point is admirably emphasized in a recent article by Turner, Lytle and Winnemore entitled "Intermittency in Growth as an Index of Health Status" and published in American Journal of Public Health, May, 1932, pages 455-464, The article stresses the fallacy of serious attention to the height and weight tables and defines intermittency of growth as showing no gain for periods of three months. It compares ninety-five children showing intermittent growth with one hundred children showing gradual 554 growth. The mental, social, and economic conditions of the groups were quite comparable. Special studies of the health habit as shown by inadequate protein, low vitamin intake, inadequate sleep, inadequate liquid, deficient roughage, were made. The sickness record and number of defects were investigated. The results showed that intermittency of growth is an index pointing to problems. The authors give the following summary: "Children who have failed to gain for a three-month period reflect appreciably poorer health habits and definitely lower health status than those who gained regularly. Nearly three times as many in the former group (33.12) have two or more important unhygienic habits; serious physical defects are nearly three times as numerous among them (44. 16); nearly twice as many (27.14) have such defects; illness is nearly - twice as common (12.5). The number of children defective in two or all three of these respects is four times as-great (34.8). Intermittency in gaining weight does not draw a sharp line between the children who seem to need attention and those who do not; but it is more commonly accompanied by departure from normal health than is regular growth. (Obese children usually gain regularly and too rapidly. This summary is not applicable to them.)" 4. Anatomical age has become very significant in recent years in planning the social and educational programs of children. Children who are large physically are not capable of doing the same things that older children of the same weight and height can do. Most learning is dependent on some form of physical activity. The degree of maturity can be somewhat estimated by the interests child should receive attention. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE manifested by the child. It is a common remark heard that this boy is big but is a baby in his actions. The coordination of all of the elements of maturity should be considered. There are three definite developments that indicate problems of anatomical maturity that can be observed or measured. These are (1) dentition, (2) the ossification of the wrist bones, (3) the maturing of the reproductive functions at puberty. If these processes are unduly delayed or occur irregularly the orderly process of physical development is being interrupted and the On this point Curti says: (Curti: Child Psychology) Lon. General Bodily Growth: "Common measures of anatomical age are dentition, ossification of the wrist bones, and pubescence, and these are held to be considerably more important as indications of rate of physical growth than height and weight, which are rougher measures apparently considerably more influenced by fluctuations in nutrition _and general health." The author points out that individual differences in stages of dentition sometimes represent four chronological years. The range in anatomical maturity as measured by the ossification of the wrist bones of children the same chronological age is as great as six years. The onset of' pubescence or the maturity of the reproduction organs the range is as great as six years in chronological age. "When we consider that these three different measures of anatomical age all correspond closely in a given child to each other and to general bodily development, it becomes at once apparent that a knowledge of the stage of anatomical development of a particular child is very important LESSON DEPARTMENT ant for any one who wishes to understand his moods and feelings, as ?well as his overt behavior." (p. 81.) Girls develop anatomically more rapidly than boys from infancy leading to the earlier pubescence so commonly noticed but the wide variations within the sexes makes it unsafe to assume that any one girl is more mature than any one boy the same age. 5. Some facts indicated in recent study of children: a. The rate of growth in early childhood is indicative of later growth. If the child is taller - than average when young he will probably be taller when grown. B. The mortality rate is lowest among children at adolescence but the susceptibility to disease is very high. C. In general the physical development is greater in brighter children but height and weight are not significant indexes to brightness. D. Delayed puberty generally results in a shorter period of rapid growth and a corresponding loss in development. E. Children raised in less favorable economic and social conditions are smaller than children raised under more favorable conditions. There ls grave danger to the physical well-being of children in economic crises. Late puberty is one of these undesirable results. {.. There are many physiological differences between adults and children that should be known by parents. The following are some interesting items. Listed by Terman and Almack: The white corpuscles in the blood 555 have less germicidal power so that children should be protected from exposure to children's diseases as long as possible. For example, measles is fatal in five times as many cases in the first year as in the next four years. The child's heart is smaller compared to the body and the arteries. Tne dangers of overworking children physically are very real. The digestive system and process are different throughout and are more dependent on proper and sufficient food, proper exercise and fresh air. Lung capacity grows with height and weight. Girls need greater attention than boys in securing proper breathing habits. The muscular system is a smaller percentage of the body in the child. Voluntary control of the muscles develops first in the fundamental muscles and later in the accessory muscles. Fine delicate movements should not be required in early childhood. School progress needs careful scrutiny to see that they do not neglect the large muscle activity and over-stress writing and other movements of the accessory muscles. The various muscles do not grow at the same rate and strength does not parallel accuracy and speed. The bones ossify slowly so that deformity is possible throughout childhood. "Most expressive is the lack of permanency in the form, structures, 'and functions of the child's organs. From first to last, developmental changes are more important than those of mere growth: It is unsafe, a priori, to infer that anything which is safe or beneficial for the adult is hygienic for the child." (Terman and Almack: The Hygiene of the School Child, p. 65.) Theology and Testimony (First Week in November) THE Law or CONSECRATION 1. Activity Versus Inactivity. The Savior's statement to the effect that it is more blessed to give than to receive is well exemplified in his parable of the talents. The circumstances are briefly these: A man traveling in a far country called his servants together and gave them his goods according to their several abilities. To one of his servants the man gave five talents, to another two, and to another one. Straightway the servant who had received five talents traded with the same and made five other talents. So likewise the servant who had received two talents gained other two. But the servant who received one. Talent buried it in the earth for fear of losing it. Later when the man reckoned with his servants, the one who had received five talents came and brought other five; similarly the one who had received two came and brought other two. But he who had received one came with it alone, explaining that he was fearful of losing it and had buried it in the earth. 2. It is interesting to note that to those who, through their industry and intelligence, had developed their talents, the man gave more, but from the one who had indolently sought to preserve his gift, the man took away that which he had. Now, the same basic principle applies in practically all human affairs; intelligent effort is followed by increased efficiency, and indolence, by decline and atrophy. This capacity to progress by means of intelligent effort is one of Diety's choicest gifts to man. Without it, progression would be impossible; with it, attainment is unlimited. From infancy to old age most of man's improvements, aside from involuntary changes, are the result of directed effort. We learn, for example, to sing by singing, to. Swim by swimming, to write by writing, to think by thinking, to do good by doing good. So far as known, this is the prime, and almost sole, means by which man can go forward. It is possibly transcended by no other gift. It is designated by Deity for man's progress and eventual mastery. 3. So jealous, however, is Deity of this gift that whenever it ceases to be used, the benefits derived from it are quickly withdrawn. It is commonplace, for example, for a musician to decline to perform on the ground that he has not practiced during the last few days and therefore is not at his best. Even a race horse would not be permitted by its owner to enter a contest if it had been out of training for several days. Football coaches are well aware of the effect upon their teams of long periods of inactivity. So it is practically everywhere: decline quickly follows discontinuance of activity. 4? Giving and Receiving. From the foregoing it is not difficult to understand why it is more blessed to give than to receive. The giver must be active, and, accordingly, he grows. Receiving, however, is passive, and hence is usually followed by decline. This latter condition is well illustrated in much of the relief work made necessary by the recent depression. There is something about the repeated receiving of help that seems to strike at the independence and strength of the receiver. It is now generally believed that there are few LESSON DEPARTMENT more effective means of pauperizing people than the continued giving of relief without requiring compensating effort. 5. This is true not only of social problems, but of many others, notably educational. Just as there are beggars who sit by the highway of life and ask for alms, just so there are beggars in schools and colleges who make no serious effort to secure things for themselves, but rely principally upon the help of others. It is needless to say that the student who has not experienced the thrill that comes from the self-mastery of a problem has not yet really started on the roadway of success. Students who master problems for themselves and give to others are invariably strong, while those who habitually receive are weak and flabby. Strength comes from self-effort; weakness follows inactivity and indolence. This is a law of God. 6. Devotion and Success. It is scarcely necessary to state that the heights to which an individual attains are governed by the degree and duration of his devotion. The college man, for example, whose energies are scattered cannot hope for the success attained by another of single thought and action. Half-hearted devotion cannot result in more than partial success. It would not be difficult to state what the outcome of President Abraham Lincoln's administration would have been if his interest had been divided or his allegiance incomplete. Lack of genuine devotion at any critical stage of his administration would have been fatal to his objective, namely the preservation of the American Union. But his loyalty knew no limits and his success was accordingly complete. He both lived and died for his people. 7. Similarly it would not be difficult 557 to imagine what the outcome would have been if Joseph Smith had failed to give full allegiance to the cause of God. But from the day of his vision at Palmyra to the tragedy at Carthage, he devoted his entire strength to the fulfillment of the responsibilities which God had placed upon him. His consecration was complete. In this connection it is well for the student to ponder the word of the Lord relating to the achievements of all of his children, namely: "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated: And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." (Doc. And Cov. 130:20, 21.) The degree of one's success, therefore, is dependent upon the degree of one's devotion. Complete devotion is requisite to complete success. 8. The Law of Consecration. Deity is the father of all men. Relative to his love for his children, he says: "For behold, this is my work and my glory?to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (Moses 1:39.) Again, "For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life." (John 3: 16.) In return for these transcendent blessings he requires that the saints shall render him full and complete allegiance?that they shall consecrate themselves, their time, their talents, and everything that they have or may have to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, for the building up of the kingdom of God upon the earth and the establishment of Zion. It is not enough, therefore, merely to be a member of the Church or to attend to one's duties when convenience or inclination 558 permits. Neither is it enough for a member of the Church to accept only those principles that make especial appeal and reject those which may not. On the contrary, the Lord requires the full allegiance of his people; he expects them to do their duties at all times and to become wholeheartedly converted to every principle of revealed religion. There is no middle ground for the Latter-day Saint. Religion to him is infinitely the most important matter in the world; all other worthwhile things are merely secondary. His consecration to God must be complete. 9. The United Order. As early as January 2, 1831, scarcely one year after the Church was organized, the Lord promised the saints that when they assembled in Ohio he would give unto them his "law." (Doc. And Cov. 38:32.) Pursuant to this promise, on the ninth day of February, 1831, a very few days after the Prophet's first arrival at Kirtland, the Lord gave a revelation which may well be regarded as the moral law of the Church. (Doc. _and Cov. 42.) Among many other important matters, the revelation directs that the saints shall impart of their material wealth for the support of the poor, and that thereafter every man shall be held accountable unto the Lord, "a steward over his own property, as much as is sufficient for himself and family." After this, "If there shall be properties in the hands of the church, or any individuals of it, more than is. Necessary for their support after this first consecration, which is a residue to be consecrated unto the bishop, it shall be kept to administer to those who have not, from time to time, that every man who has need may be amply supplied and receive according to his wants." (Doc. And RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Cov. 42:33.) Later the Lord further said: "This is a law unto every man that cometh unto this land Zion to receive an inheritance; and he shall do with his moneys according as the law directs." (Doc. And Cov. 58:36.) 10. It was not intended by the law of consecration that properties should be held in common, but rather that men should be equal in their holdings according to their various needs. This is made clear in the following statement: "Let my servant Edward Partridge, and those whom he has chosen, in whom I am well pleased, appoint unto this people their portions, every man equal according to his family, according to his circumstances and his wants and needs." Moreover, '"'Give unto him a writing that shall secure unto him his portion, that he shall hold it, even this right and this inheritance in the church, until he transgresses and is not accounted worthy by the voice of the church." (Doc. And Cov. 51:3, 4.) 11. Furthermore, this law did not intend that idlers should be kept by those who are willing to work, as witness the following: "Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer." (Doc. And Cov. 42:42.) Again, "Let every man be diligent in all things. And the idler shall not have place in the church, except he repent and mend his ways." (Doc. And Cov. 75:29.) 12. Although the United Order was intended to be a permanent measure (Doc. And Cov. 82:20.) yet because of weakness and insufficient faith on the part of many of the saints it was temporarily withdrawn. This occurred June 22, 1834, while the Prophet, with Zion's Camp, was temporarily resting at Fishing River, Missouri. By mob violence, the LESSON DEPARTMENT saints had been forced to leave Jackson County and had taken refuge chiefly in the nearby counties on the north side of the river. At this time the Lord declared through revelation that "Were it not for the transgressions of my people, speaking concerning the church and not individuals, they might have been redeemed even now. My people must needs be chastened until they learn obedience, if it must needs be, by the things which they suffer." (Doc. And Cov. 105:2-6.) This occurred only slightly more than four years after the Church was organized. 13. The Law of Tithing. Shortly after the Prophet's return to Kirtland, he and Oliver Cowdery entered into a signed covenant with the Lord, _ November 29, 1834, to give onetenth of their income to the Church for the benefit of the poor or for whatever other purpose the Lord should command. (History of the Church, Vol. 2, p. 175.) Nearly four years later, after the saints had abandoned Kirtland and were gathering at Far West and vicinity, the Prophet offered a fervent prayer unto the Lord for further information concerning the law of tithing. Here are his words: "O Lord! Show unto thy servant how much thou requirest of the properties of thy people for a tithing." (History of the Church, Vol. 3, p. 44.) In reply the Prophet received the revelation on tithing. (Doc. And Cov. Section 119.) The term "tithing" had been used in several of the revelations prior to this time (See 64:23; 85:3; 97:11,) but evidently as synonymous with "contribution" or "free-will offering." The law of tithing may properly be regarded as a "school master" to bring the Latter-day Saints to an understanding and acceptance of the higher law. It 559 is apparent without explanation that those who do not comply with the lesser law will not be able to abide the greater. 14. General Consecration. Let it be repeated that the law of consecration requires that we shall dedicate ourselves, our time, our talents, and everything that we have or may have, to the Church of the Living God. It is not enough, therefore, that we pay our tithing or offer relief to the poor; we must dedicate our time and talents as well as our property to the cause of God. While at present it is not expected of the Latter-day Saints _ that they shall devote their entire time to the duties of Church Office or give of all their possessions, yet it is expected that they will give in part, as the Lord has directed, and be ready on all occasions to contribute of their time and their talents as opportunity affords. Individuals who wait to be commanded in all things have been aptly described as "slothful servants." Latter-day Saints should ever be watchful for opportunities to do good. This, indeed, should be the objective for which they live and work and die. Suggestions for Discussion and Rewew 1. Show that spiritual growth is necessarily limited to those who are intelligently active. 2. Why in your judgment does the continuous receipt of unearned help tend to weaken the receiver? 3. Why do half-hearted people invariably fail? 4, What does the law of consecration include? Try to enumerate a score of things. 5. In what respects would the United Order be difficult for you to live? 6. Why will it be impossible for those who neglect the law of tithing to enter the United Order?  Teachers' Topic GRATITUDE "And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are came in one body; and be ye thankful. "Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and _ spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. "And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him."?Colossians 3:15-17. "Gratitude is an emotional attitude felt and expressed only by noble souls; it may have an element of pain, because misfortune places them under the stern necessity of accepting favors; and an element of pleasure, because of the thought that there are others in this world who, though fortunate themselves, can sympathize with the misery of others. "The majority of the people are too slow in expressing gratitude for favors received. They are willing to accept benefits as if they had a right to them, and they immediately forget the giver. "Ingratitude is certainly not a product of the better side of our nature "Sweet?. If gratitude is due from man to man, how much more from man to his Maker? Every blessing we have is the gift of God. Our hearts should ever be thankful, for there is a faith that all may possess, which assures us our lives are well ordered and protected." Gratitude is a virtue too much neglected, and there is ample need of developing: a more grateful attitude toward God and toward each other. To express our appreciation will often inspire a person to do good, and live a better life, while failing to manifest gratitude may cause discouragement and failure. How may we show our gratitude toward God? By striving earnestly to do his will and keeping his commandments. We should have an attitude of gratefulness toward our fellowmen because of the many acts of service rendered for our blessings. Is the breath of vernal shower, The bee's collected treasures sweet, Sweet music's melting fall, but sweeter yet The still small voice of gratitude." Gray. Ode for Music 1:61. Literature (Third Week in November ) LIFE AND LITERATURE THE GIFTS OF THE GREEKS TO THE WORLD "Give me beauty in the inward soul; and may the outward and the inward man be at one." ?Socrates. Mankind throughout the ages has been engaged upon a high adventure, to bring into perfect harmony the demands of the body, of the mind, and of the spirit. The story of Man's adventure is the story of how he learned to live LESSON DEPARTMENT in his world. The Hebrews stand supreme among man's teachers as he has sought to understand the yearnings of the spirit; the Greeks are the great teachers who have taught him to satisfy the questionings of the mind. The greatness of the Greeks was not in what they did but in their spirit. The Greek spirit, their ideals, the love of Freedom, the love of Truth, the love of Beauty, are the imperishable gifts they have given to the World. The Greek Spirit. Forty centuries ago (2000 B. C.) a little band of Aryans, originally from the plains of Thibet, migrated to the Greek peninsula. Their new home was a beautiful one, a land of sea and mountains. The Hellenes, as they called themselves, came to a land of vanished glory, the work of a people that had built palaces, theatres, fortifications, all bearing the touch of art and culture. Today the secret of Crete, the chief city of this ancient civilization, lies hidden under mounds of earth and a great library of clay records still waiting to be read. After a thousand years the Greeks had mastered the Aegean Sea with their swift ships. This period of great adventure with many heroes was the Heroic Age. The Heroic Age. During the Heroic Age the Greeks lived very near to the gods of their own creating: Zeus, the father of gods and men, Hera, his wife, Poseidon, the god of the sea, Athena. The warrior goddess, Apollo, the god of light, Artemis, goddess of the moon, Hermes, the messenger of the gods. The Greek gods were human in form and wants, yet were immortal?they were glorified men. To the early Greek his Religion was 561 an interpretation of his world, external and internal. From generation to generation the tales of heroes and gods were carried by bards. At last came a great poet, Homer, who recorded the great traditions in the greatest of all epic poems, the Iliad and the Odyssey. An ancient tradition told the story of how Helen, the beautiful wife of Menelaus, King of Sparta, had been carried off by Paris, son of King Priam of Troy, and of how the Greeks collected a mighty army under Agamemnon, King of Argos, and his brother, Menelaus, and sailed ' for Troy to bring back the lost Helen. For ten years they beseiged Troy during which time many heroic deeds were performed. The gods and goddesses themselves came down from Mt. Olympus, their home, and took sides, some helping the Trojans and some the Greeks. Glorious Hector, the Trojan, was slain by Achilles, the Greek. At length Troy was taken, and the Greek heroes returned home. The homeward journey was fraught with many dangers and hardships. The wise Odysseus, especially, had many strange adventures before he reached home. Until the beginning of the nineteenth century no one had taken the events as told by Homer seriously. A German, Schleimann, believed the tales of Troy were true. He went to the place where he believed Troy had once stood and began to dig. His discoveries sent a thrill of excitement through the world. He found Troy; he found also the tomb of Agamemnon. Homer had written about what was really true of the early life of his people as he recorded the tales of the shadowy, misty period of Greek life, the Age of the Heroes. The Greeks emerged from a primitive people to a race of human beings 562 living a beautiful and human life. This age, the Attic Age, was the age of culture. The builders of the age were the thinkers and the artists: "Greece and her foundations are Built below the tide of war Based on the crystalline sea Of thought and its serenity." To know what power inspired the imaginations of their philosophers, the thoughts of their politicians, the hands of their sculptors, and the lips of their writers is to understand the genius of the Greeks. Scholars of many centuries have deliberated long to determine the nature of the genius which gave such rare gifts to mankind. Was it their passion for beauty, their passion for truth, their power to see life, all of life, or their humanism? Xenaphon's answer "It is not in beauty of stature, of strength, or of thought that they are superior, but in ambition that fires them to noble achievement." It is said in beautiful simplicity by Tennyson as the hero Ulysses reveals the secret of the spirit of his race: "To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield." The Greeks loved truth; they tried to see all things straight "with an unclouded clearness of mind." They. Had no guiding tradition as had the Hebrew. Religion was not the same thing for Homer or Socrates as for Moses and Isaiah. The Greek said of his gods "they are"; while to the Hebrew, Jehovah said "I am." The Greek sought Truth; "To bear all naked truths, and to envisage circumstance, all calm." Perhaps the greatest Greek searcher for truth was Socrates. This great teacher sought virtue for its own sake and set forth the principles of ethical life. Plato, the chief disciple of Socrates, in dialog form recorded the teachings of his master as well as his own thinking. Aristotle later became RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the master of Greek thinking. His ideas became the basis of scientific and scholastic thought. His writings were the text books of the Middle Ages. This note of directness with its truth and humanism molded the literature of the Greeks. As they looked upon life Man became "the measure of all things." They saw things as they were without fancy or romance. They recorded life "not as a spectacle, not as a vision of beauty, but as life." Life was its own Paradise, and happiness came throug health, beauty, strength, fame, honor, good fortune, and virtue. So Homer with simple grandeur wrote of the affairs of life, war, peace, home life, adventure; Aeschylus with titanic force wrote of the forces of good and evil in the world; Sophocles with dramatic intensity portrayed human passions and emotion; Euripides with merciless insight revealed moral values; Sappho sang sweetly of the individual?his hopes, dreams, longings, and moods. It was a reasonable view of life due to what Goethe called truthfulness that made Greek philosophy and literature immortal, "Spreading a relic wealth richer than golden mines" through the ages. The Greeks loved beauty, especially the Athenians of the fifth century B. C. To the Greek, beauty meant perfection in all that he did. To him "beauty" was the same as "goodness"', and ugliness was evil. Beauty meant control and harmony, the absence of excess and exaggeration. This understanding of beauty touched all phases of Greek life. Art was the outward expression of this ideal. Art is something that is done. In the - narrow sense, art is the outward sign of the spirit of a nation expressed in painting, in stone, and in marble. The Greeks believed that the forms of art are as many and varied as are LESSON DEPARTMENT the interests of every day life. Except for the vase-paintings, Greek painting has almost disappeared, but the achievements of the Greeks in architecture and sculpture are among the greatest of the world. It seemed as if the Greek love of beauty ran through the whole of their lives as a ferment marking everything they built, statues, buildings, or poems. In mere beauty their literature has never been excelled. The Greeks lived at a time when much was done for the first time. To all of life they brought the spirit of Youth, of Joy in creation, and Patience in achieving. To appreciate fully the Greeks there are several scenes of Greek life we can recreate. First, the Acropolis, the ancient citadel of Athens, upon which eminence stood the Parthenon, the most beautiful Greek temple. This greatest product of the Greek ideal of beauty was created by Ictinus, the architect, and Pheidias, the sculptor., It was surrounded by forty-six great pillars. The carvings symbolized the history of the Greek spirit, national and religious. It was the very soul of Athens. Before the temple stood the statue of Athena, a great figure of gold and ivory nearly forty feet high, whose calm and queenly beauty personified the best of Greek Ideals. Another scene would be the great theatre of Athens where twenty to thirty thousand Greeks were sitting in the sunshine listening for the first time to the opening words of the great drama "Agamemnon" by Aeschylus. As the tragic story of the great warrior is unfolded, flaming words announce that "Violence is not the parent of justice," that "To conquer beyond life is to perish." to Aeschylus it was always so and ever would be that: "Man by suffering shall learn So the heart of him again out his life for evermore." 563 Aching with remembered pain, Bleeds and sleepeth not, until Wisdom cometh against his will." Still another scene would be the great Olympic festival, a yearly national event. The Greeks loved athletic contests and competition because they cared so much for physical beauty and grace. The gathering brought contestants and visitors from all over Greece. The contests included footraces, the pentathlon, chariot races, boxing, and wrestling. _ Beauty, grace, skill, and fleetness were the points of excellence. The honors given to the victors were great; poets wrote odes to them, sculptors made models of them, songs of triumph led them home. Pindar, the poet of the Olympic Games, summed up the feelings of every victor in the words: 'He that overcometh, hath, because of the games, a sweet tranquility through Still another scene, was the Greek school where the Athenian boy learned to be a good man and a good citizen. Without the aid of books the boy learned from his teacher to recite the deeds of the heroes of his race, and the words of the wisdom and beauty of the poets and thinkers' of his race. Music, art, and gymnastics were part of his training. By asking and answering questions he learned to know virtue. Military training and service completed the education of the Athenian youth. Although the material structure of the Greek civilization yielded to the foes, internal strife and external enemies, all that was worthwhile was not to die. The Greek spirit lived and became a benefactor to man, teaching him the ways of Truth and Beauty. An Appreciation of the Greeks The following selections have been 564 chosen because they represent the Greek spirit at its best: The Greek Spirit?'Ulysses"? Alfred Tennyson The Love of Truth?"The Death of Socrates"?Plato The Love of Beauty""?Ode on a Grecian Urn'"?Keats Beauty of Expression?Epic? Homer, Lyric?Sappho Ulysses?Alfred Tennyson To the Greek no hero was greater than Ulysses; he was their ideal man. Ulysses loved life; he enjoyed life. Homer wrote the story of Ulysses in the "Odyssey," It is the story of a powerful warrior prince who went to a ten year war, the Trojan war, and helped to win it. On his way home he wandered far by sea and land in an unknown world; his adventures were many and strange. When he reached home on the island of Ithaca he found his home and kingdom besieged by those who thought him dead. Ina glorious struggle he sets his home and kingdom in order. Tennyson loved the tale of Ulysses; the poem "Ulysses" is frequently considered Tennyson's greatest poem. The poem takes up the story of Ulysses where Homer leaves off. The great adventurer, his house and kingdom in order, is an idle king. His adventurous spirit cannot rest as a name; he must still "drink life to the lees," he must be a "bringer of new things." Telemachus, his son, can with prudence attend the common offices of the small kingdom. So Ulysses calls his mariners and challenges them to follow him into the unknown world again.?''To sail beyond the sunset." ?'"To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield." The seriousness and intensity of the poem make it impressive. The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE greatness, however, lies in the fact that the poet has expressed the essence of the Greek Spirit, to look upon life as a great adventure. The Death of Socrates?Plato After two thousand years we can still picture the great teacher, Socrates, surrounded by the youth of Athens. His pupils reverenced him because of his modesty, his truthfulness and his wisdom. He had his own religious faith; he believed in one God and hoped that death was not the end of all things. He was accused of turning the Athenian youth from the faith of their fathers. He was condemned to die. Plato wrote the story of the last days of Socrates in prose more beautifully than poetry. It was ordained that Socrates should drink hemlock. During his last month in prison he spent much time with his friends. Crito, who was devoted to him, entreated him to escape. The brave teacher refused reminding Crito that all his life he had taught that the greatest misfortune that could befall a man was to do wrong. The last day came; still Socrates conversed with his friends of his hope of going to a place to gain the wisdom he had passionately longed for all his life. The jailor brought in the cup of poison. Holding the cup to his lips Socrates readily and cheerfully drank the poison. "Till then most of us had been able to control our grief fairly well; but when we saw him drinking, and then the poison finished, we could do so no longer. ''What are you doing, my friends?" he exclaimed. "TI sent away the women chiefly in order that they might not offend in this way; for I have heard that a man should die in silence. So calm yourselves and bear up." "When we heard that we were ashamed, and LESSON DEPARTMENT we ceased from weeping." Socrates then walked about a little, but soon lay down on the couch, and slowly the numbness crept over him; in a few minutes he was dead. The Ode on a Grecian Urn?Keats No one could have been more in sympathy with the artistic spirit of the Greeks than Keats, who loved "the principle of beauty in all things." In the British Museum, Keats had studied Greek art, especially the marble vases with scenes cut in low relief. Deeply impressed with the loveliness of the urn before him, Keats allows his imagination to make the silent figure of the vase take on life and tell a tale of the past. He sees a throng of fleeing maidens (lines 8-10), a sacrificial procession (lines 31-37), following a priest to the altar, a youth piping beneath the trees (lines 13-15), and a bold lover (lines 15-20). These men and women wrought in marble live with a lasting beauty. In artistic perfection and clearness the poem itself is almost Greek. The ode is the highest expression of Keats as it expresses the fundamental belief that beauty was just another name for truth, and that alone is imperishable. "Beauty is truth, truth beauty: Ye know on earth, and all ye need know. That is all " Sappho?Fragments Sappho, the first woman poet, has been called the greatest woman poet the world has known. Her poems were arranged in nine books but all have disappeared with the exception of a few precious fragments. Poems "are unique both for their wonderful melody and for the intensity of passion which the musical words express." The beauty of the world of nature lies revealed in the two fragments entitled, "Beauty" translated by Rossetti: The 565 I "Like the sweet apple which reddens upon the topmost bough, A-top on the topmost twig,?which the pluckers forgot somehow,? Forgot it not, nay, but got it not, for none could get it till now. II "Like the wild hyacinth flower which on the hills is found, Which the passing feet of the shepherds forever tear and wound, Until the purple blossom is trodden upon the ground." "Love'?A Paraphrase by Moore. As o'er her loom the Lesbian maid In lovesick languor hung her head, Unknowing where her fingers strayed, She weeping turned away and said: "Oh, my sweet mother, 'tis in vain; I cannot weave as once I wove, So wildered is my heart and brain With thinking of that youth I love." "Evening?A Paraphrase by Byron. "O Hesperus thou bringest all good things, Home to the weary, to the hungry cheer, To the young bird the parent's brooding wings, The welcome stall to the o'er-labored steer 5 Whate'er of peace about our hearthstone clings, Whate'er our household gods protect is dear, Are gathered round us by thy look of rest; Thou bring'st the child, tov, to its mother's breast." Homer?Hector's Farewell to Andromache The poetry of Homer has been called the most graceful which the world has ever known. His verse moves with dignity and stateliness? as nobly described by Coleridge "'it bears us along in swelling and limitless billows." Hector, the Trojan hero, is about to engage in mortal combat with great Achilles; he takes leave of his little son. 566 "O thou! Whose glory fills the ethereal throne, And all ye deathless powers! Protect my son! Grant him, like me, to purchase just renown, To guard the Trojans, to defend the crown, Against the country's foes the war to wage, And rise the Hector of the future age! So when, triumphant from successive toils Of heroes slain, he bears the reeking spoils, Whole hosts may hail him with deserved acclaim And say, "This chief transcends his father's fame': While, pleased, amidst the general shout of Troy, His mother's conscious heart o'erflow with joy." So prayed he, the brave Hector, 'facing his doom, but little thinking that, when he himself was slain and the city destroyed, his little son should be cast headlong to death from the towers of Troy, and his dear wife led into captivity. But now Hector laid the boy in the arms of his wife, and she, smiling tearfully, gathered him to her bosom; and her husband caressed her with his hand, and bade her farewell, saying: "Andromache! My soul's far better part, Why with untimely sorrows heaves thy heart? No hostile hand can antedate my doom, Till fate condemns me to the silent tomb. Fixed is the term to all the race of earth; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE And such the hard condition of our birth, No force can then resist, no flight can save; All sink alike, the fearful and the brave. No more?but hasten to thy tasks at home, There guide the spindle, and direct the loom; Me glory. Summons to the martial scene, The field of combat is the sphere for men. Where heroes war, the foremost place I claim. The first in danger as the first in fame.', Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature, Chapters 5-10.?Macy. 2. Ulysses.?Tennyson. 3. The Death of Socrates?Plato. 4. Poems.?Sappho. 5. A Day in Old Athens.?Davis. B. Program: 1. Music. 2. Discussion. A. The Gifts of the Greeks to the World. B. The Greek Ideal of Beauty. 3. Readings. A. "Ulysses." b. "The Death of Socrates." c. "Ode ona Grecian Urn." d. Selections from the poems of Sappho. C. Method: The lesson is planned to present simply yet impressively the ideals of beauty the Greeks created for the world. Social Service (Fourth Week in November ) Factors In Early Habit FORMATION LESSON XI That a child shall live and be healthy is a parent's first purpose. Next to this a parent exerts himself to assure that the conduct of his child shall conform to desirable ethical standards. Parents also want their children to be efficient in a vocation and pleasing in their social contacts. In character, vocation and social contacts there are certain conditions in the environment that remain practically LESSON DEPARTMENT constant throughout life and to which responses can be fixed early. These responses are habits. The aim of this lesson is to help parents to understand the nature and importance of habit and to explain to them how early guidance in habit formation may be given. Suggestions on Procedure: 1. The class teacher can read to the class at the previous meeting the fundamental principles given on pages 61-62 of White House Conference report. 2. Follow this by a careful explanation of the reading guide so that the class members as they study will focus on the essential elements in the process of directing the process of habit formation. 3. During the class period discuss each point given in the reading guide and illustrate or explain each from the supplementary material as indicated. The numbers in the supplementary material refer to the item in the Reading Guide to which it is to relate. Reading Guide: Habits pp. 8-14. This chapter plunges the reader immediately into the psychology of learning. If a parent would control the behavior of children he must learn to control the process of learning. Notice: 1. The statement of the universal truth that every act from birth on leaves its effect on future conduct. 2. Interpret clearly the definition of habit as a pattern of conduct. 3. Note that habit as here discussed refers chiefly to reactions, to the more common phases of the environment as stimuli. The illustrations of studying, hanging up clothes, etc., show the need of the proper environment before children are taught to adjust to them. It 567 seems quite ineffective to try to teach a child how to react to a stimulus that he has not been acquainted with. 4, Fit together the three ideas discussed as parts of the stimulus: the external stimulus, the health condition of the child, the desires and freedom from strain or conflict in the individual. These tend to determine the initial responses children make. 5. Note the importance attached to having a correct emotional association for the desired habit. Do not use going to bed as a punishment is one illustration. 6. The author emphasizes what modern psychology makes very important, the law of effect in learning. Note both the natural effects, page 10, and the social rewards, page 11. 7. Note that stress is placed on the long continued process of learning. This implies need for care in guiding the early habit formation. It also holds encouragement for modification of conduct later if it is necessary. The problems on page 14 are not solved in the text but are really applications of the theory in the chapter. Try to relate one of the principles discussed with each problem. Note especially the caution on page 13; it is possible to have too many or too rigidly formed early habits. Be prepared to discuss the social consequences mentioned. Suplementary Material: 1. Florence Mateer (Director of The Merryheart Schools?Columbus, Ohio) (Just Normal Children? D. Appelton & Co.) says of Ideals in Early Habit Formation. "Does not every child have some traits that worry his parents? "No. Most children have but it is not necessary that they should have. A perfectly well child who has been properly trained gives no real worry. 568 Such a child goes to sleep when bed time comes, sleeps the right length of time, wakes up in a happy frame of mind, eats the food he should, makes his own play interests, amuses himself, teeths without trouble, needs no special appliances to learn to walk, nor help in learning to talk, but gains in physical and mental independence and ability daily. A child who does not develop thus, needs special attention to make him as nearly normal in development as possible." (20.) On this same point Forest says: "A democratic society begins to demand of the home that it avail itself of the findings and the techniques of modern science in the field of preschool development, providing for the young child an environment and guidance which appear to be conducive to his best growth." (Forest: Preschol Education, p. 232). Supplementary Material: 2. Habit defined. Habit is an acquired or learned way of behaving in a specified environment. Thom says: (Thom: Everv Day Problems of the Every Day Child). "Everyone appreciates how the repetition of any act over and over again increases the ease and assurance with which it can be performed. The routine of the simplest existence constantly makes demands upon the habits that we have acquired in the process of growing up. The rising hour, the daily bath, exercise, the extent to which we indulge our appetites at the breakfast table, our attitude toward other members of the family or our associates in the shop or office, and our thoughts and actions as they help or hinder us in the adjustments we have to make with other individuals, are largely a matter of habit. We are hardly aware that our decisions have been automatically RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE guided and directed by an unforseen force called habits." This is a liberal, broad interpretation of habit but it is a practical one, 3-4, Laws of learning applied to habit formation. A. Acquire the habit from the beginning in the form in which it will most likely be used throughout life. For example a child first learns to eat with a regular spoon as easily as he does with a special form or child's spoon. In the first place the habit will continue through life, in the second place a new habit must later be learned. Other illustrations will be shown in later lessons. This correct form of the habit applies as much to the stimulus as to the response. Consideration of the requests of others or obedience are desirable habits. The mother who exacts obedience to requests expressed in her normal tone of voice and manner of expression is laying a foundation for consistent permanent habits. A mother who gets results only by shouting or threatening'or other unusual type of expression is not fixing a permanent attitude of obedience because that type of stimulus is not the normal, natural one. B. Repetition is necessary in fixing learned responses. The more frequently an act is performed the more likely its performance will become a permanent part of the child's personality. In home life the learning attitude is not very strong. Children perform to get immediate results. In school they perform in order to learn. To offset this attitude ? parents, at times, have to plan opportunities for incidental practice of some desired behavior; for example ?courtesy to others, receiving callers in the home. In such cases as going to bed, eating, etc., occasions recur naturally. 5. The law of effect: LESSON DEPARTMENT Thom discusses this point as follows: "The permanency of habits, however, is not solely dependent upon repetition; the mere fact that the individual is made to do the same thing over and over again gives us little assurance that the practice will be long continued after the supervision has been removed. Unless the task is performed efficiently, and with a fair degree of ease, resulting in satisfaction on the part of the doer, we can hardly expect permanence. [For this reason, as will be pointed out later, in our efforts to establish desirable habits, the attempt must be made to see that successful accomplishment is rewarded by emotional satisfaction." (16) He points out that this emotional satisfaction comes in various ways. In walking, talking, etc., the sense of achievement is its reward. In learning proper methods of eating, eliminating, obeying, caring for clothes, etc., the approbation of others is the satisfying element. In other cases prizes or rewards may be needed. On the negative side an undesirable response must be made to fail, must not receive approval, and may require punishment in order to prevent its recurrence. The most unpleasant situation appears when parents build temporary, bad or undesirable habits and then have to substitute other habits later on. Habit breaking is much more difficult than habit forming. (2) Types of habit forming experiences. A. Adapting natural tendencies to daily needs in a social organization. These natural tendencies to talk, to explore, to fight, to manipulate, to form gangs, to be interested in the opposite sex, etc., usually express themselves in some random form. The type of expression that 569 produces the greatest satisfaction tends to become permanent. The parental responsibility is largely one of attaching satisfaction to the desirable expression although, in later childhood, imitation may be used to limit the types of expression. B. Acquiring the fashions of the day, such as handling clothing, using eating utensils, crossing streets safely, going to school or church, participating in games, etc., require a preliminary teaching act, usually a demonstration, and the application of satisfaction to the correct response. An illustration of a negative type is found in cheating at school. This is usually caused by teachers and parents attaching significance to absolute marks or grades rather than to progress in learning. C. Attitudes, ideals, points of view, etc., are built by long continued practice from early childhood of the desired social conduct until generalizations occur. In early childhood the habit forming significance of winning approval by tantrum by refusing to eat or go to bed at night are very significant. 6. General environmental factors to be watched: a. Parental quarrels, indifference, depression or changing moods. B. Domination of one or more brothers or sisters. C. Cheerful affection for and interest in the children together with kindly manner of speech. D, Frankness and honesty in answering the. Questions of the children. E. Evident spirit of fair play. F. General artistic elements in the home. G. Amount and content of home conversation. H. Amount of sharing and adjusting required of the child. This implies 570 opportunities to work, play, compete, cooperate with others. 1, Early opportunities for contacts beyond the home. Ethel B. Waring in an article entitled?Discipline and Freedom in Early Habits (Parents Magazine? May 1932) gives some illustrations, Illustrations: "A mother recently said of her young baby. 'Priscilla can reach her toys in her crib and yet she cries for them.' On inquiry it appears that if a toy is placed in her hand she grasps it but she does not grasp it otherwise; even though it may be within the distance of her outstretched arm and she is crying for it,?she cannot get her to reach for the toy she wants until she has had several experiences in which the reaching movement, accidentally or with mother's help, secures the toy she is looking at and crying for. Only by such experience can the baby discover that she can reach the toy. What mother really meant when she said Priscilla could reach the toy was that Priscilla now has both the arm stretch and the grasping response, and therefore, is ready to learn to reach for her toys instead of to cry for them. It will now be profitable for mother, instead of handing her the toy, to slowly move Priscilla's arm until she touches the toy so that she may grasp it." "Because the two year-old tells his mother when he needs to leave his play and go to the toilet, she assumes that he should waken himself from his sleep to tell her his needs. The necessary experiences for starting this habit are lacking. You need to guide your child through the experiences of being wakened 'and taken to the toilet, of being awakened by a very slight touch and low call, of being wakened from a distance, of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE turning on the light, of walking to the toilet. Gradually each factor of adult help will be removed and he will have learned self control in these habits." This same habit is discussed by Arlitt as follows: "The Dry Habit:?The proper age for training the infant can best be determined by a consultation with the child's physician, since attempts to train children too early are productive of problems later. "Blatz states that in order to have the training successful, that is, to establish voluntary control, the child must be sufficiently mature to be aware of and to recognize sensations of pressure, to remember the sensations associated with the release of pressure, and to retain the necessary degree of tension in the sphincter muscles until the appropriate 'time and place. The entire series involves the conditioned reflex type of habit. "At first elimination occurs solely in response to pressure. If one charts carefully the times at which this occurs, one can place the child on the receptacle a few minutes in advance. In time the elimination which occurred in response to, pressure in the bladder and rectum will occur in response to the toilet chair. The reflexes have been conditioned to go off at the tactile sensations associated with the chair rather than at the appearance of the internal pressure sensations. "Training should be begun at not later than one year of age. If possible it should be begun before that time. Placing the children in the toilet situation at regular intervals as shown by his records of the time at which accidents are apt to occur, will nearly always be sufficient to set up the dry habit, provided this is kept up for a long period and no unpleasantness is associated with the chair situation. LESSON DEPARTMENT This is the same principle of uniformity of conditions as enunciated in the sections on eating and sleeping. Other conditions should also be uniform. The child should be placed in the same room and approximately in the same: place, for here, as in the eating habit, changes in the surrounding conditions often _ prove distracting. "No distractions should be introduced if it is possible to avoid them. To surround the child's chair with toys or other distracting materials is nearly always to make him attend to these rather than to the sensations which one wishes him to become conscious of. It must be remembered that consciousness of these sensations is one of the three things which, as Blatz states, are preconditions of voluntary control. Scolding, scenes, or any other emotional upsets condition the child to inhibition rather than to elimination." 3528 'The time at which training can be expected to be complete varies wit different races and different individuals By Woollen makes the following statement as to the times at which children should be trained, but qualifies her statements by emphasizing the probability of wide individual variations. "By a year the child should be familiar with the use of the chair. At eighteen months, ne should be 'wearing panties and be fairly reliable in the daytime.' At two years he should be well trained for daytime, and two and a half to three years of age, reliable and able to wake himself at night." "Some children are completely trained at eighteen months, but this is rare. In many cases, training is not completed until three and a half. The factors most conducive to the acquisition of voluntary control are: Uniformity of conditions as outlined above, patience, a cheerful, hopeful attitude on one part of the parent, good physical condition, and the absence of punishment and all existing scenes during the toilet period." (Arlitt: Psychology of Infancy and Early Childhood, p. 359).