Wee Travelers By Margaret C. Maloney DON'T envy you," my friend smiled in that catty way some women are past masters at— men, too for that matter—''as much as I love motor travel through the country. Children always spoil the party." "I looked at my adorable little nephew of four and his sister of six, and since this is a true story—I sighed. But my friend was all wrong. Our little ones didn't spoil the motor party—because they have a sensible mother. I often wonder how it happens that one of a family gets all the good common sense—and another is as stupid as—myself. When we were all ready to climb in—bags all parked where they would be out of the way of our feet, 524 out came sister with two footstools. I gasped with dismay. "Their poor wee legs get so tired, you know," she explained. I had nothing to say because I make it a rule to never interfere when I'm a guest. I have that much sense. We were not many hours out before I saw the wisdom of those stools. The little travelers were so comfy sitting there with their feet on the stools—stools of the right height—that there was no fussing, fidgeting, whining. When we stopped for meals, out came the stools and into the restaurant with us; and how quick the attendants were to understand and place the stools for the swinging feet. IF there is one among you who can still smile try sitting with your feet dangling sometime. You won't RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE need to sit long. If you wish a real demonstration of what it can do to nerves, sit where you will be forcibly bounced here and there, with nary a resting place of any kind for your feet. Footstools are not the only consideration my sister gives her children. She watches their clothes with a wary eye. They must be comfortable—no binding any place— neither too tight—neither too loose. And the reward is gratifying—two angels, yes angels, for they don't know what tantrums are. A comfortable child is a good child, interested in all about it. But, if anyone wants a demonstration of a full-grown tantrum—let her say to me: "Don't you hate traveling with children? They're so fussy." The International Congress of Women HE International Congress of Women called by the National Council of Women of the United States convened July 16 to July 22, 1933, at the Palmer House, Chicago, to discuss "Our Common Cause—Civilization." There were present representatives from thirtythree countries, among them some of the most brilliant, well trained women of the world who have shown by their service that they can face problems and devise ways and means to solve them. Among the distinguished speakers were: Jane Addams, founder of Hull House; Dame Rachel Crowdy; Honorable Margaret Bondfield; Judge Florence E. Allen; Miss Lena M. Phillips; Ruth St. Dennis, and Mrs. Mary R. Beard. THE President of the National Council of Women of the United States, Miss Lena Madesin Phillips showed her clearness of vision, her executive ability and her good leadership. She gave several an opportunity to conduct sessions. The other officers, were ever ready to do all in their power to further the work and see that every detail was seen to. HE first real International Congress met forty years ago at the Columbian Exposition in Chicago. They demanded rights which had been denied to them as women, such as equal education, property rights, equal guardianship of children. Particularly they demanded the vote— tool of participation in an organized democracy. IN looking backward this Congress had great satisfaction in knowing CONGRESS OF WOMEN that in many countries most of these demands have been realized. The officers in their advanced program said, The quest for power wanes. Responsibility quickens. Women, as fully as men, are confronted with the task of shaping the institutions of social control. Civilization is at a crisis. Unemployment and misery—fear and passion— threaten economic collapse and the dire calamity of war. Yet technology has created the promise of a world of plenty. For the first time a civilized world is seen as an attainable goal. From the changes now in process, new lines of progress are projected. We dare not fail to perceive them clearly. To this basic task—to grasp the significance of the present situation and to find the best roads to action—this Congress addresses its discussions." HE President in her Foreword showed the condition of the world and the purpose of the Congress. She said, "Forty years ago, the women of the world held their first real International Congress during the Columbian Exposition at Chicago. It gave impetus to the development of the organized womanhood of the world. By it came the channels through which women pursued their quest for power—social, political and educational. In the Congress of 1933, we will in a realistic fashion do honor to those pioneers of 1893, by emulating their courage and foresight. The feminine quest of power wanes, but before women lie today great opportunities for the right use of that power.. "This assembly takes place at a period of world depression following a world war. So widespread are unemployment and human misery, so varied are the proposals for changes 525 in the political and economic scene that civilization faces grave problems connected with its actual survival. "At previous assemblies of women, minor issues could be discussed with more or less urbanity. For thousands of years, men and women have been struggling with the problem of production. Now this problem is settled. We can produce all that we need. "And yet at this moment much of the world is in want. Economic distress and insecurity are the common lot of vast numbers of people everywhere. We have mastered production: we have not mastered distribution. We have not learned how to make the machine the servant, rather than the master of man. We have not lifted the burden of fear under which parents must bring up their children. We have not lifted black despair from many an aged worker. We have not learned how to attain a settled currency nor how to exchange goods from nation to nation. We have not learned to keep the peace between individuals or between nations. "And yet these problems can and must be solved. We can plan a society which will guarantee to its members minimum security for existence and a maximum opportunity for development. We can plan a society in which there shall be security of work, of income, of health; security against the violence of war and of crime; security of government for the good of all people. We can plan a society in which there shall be opportunity for all—of education, of vocational training, cultural life and a richer use of leisure. "To such endeavor we dedicate this Congress on "Our Common Cause—Civilization." Technology has created for us our House of Plenty. It is a challenge to the wo- 526 men of the world to find the keys through governmental and economic planning which will admit us to that House of Plenty. "That chalenge comes ringing down the century of woman's progress to this very hour. It sounded in the first feeble effort of our pioneers in their quest for power. It is inescapably ours. For the only justification of power is its use to wise and beneficent ends. "It is our purpose and our resolve that their quest shall not have been in vain." F. MINENT speakers, economists, — historians, philosophers, humanitarians, both men and women of nation-wide and world-wide fame discussed the subjects. One session was given to "The World as it is", "The World as it could be." One to "Women In A Changing World", one to "Economic Security Through Government." (The Hon. Margaret Bondfield, former Minister of Labor in the British Cabinet gave a masterful talk on Democracy) one to an International Forum where representatives from Ireland, Finland, Syria, Canada, Germany, France and Rumania discussed "The World as it is" and "The World as it could be." One session was devoted to the subject, "Joy in Living" and one to "Youth Plans for a Civilized World." During four afternoons six Round Tables met simultaneously and discussed "Security through Employment," 'Security through Buying Power," "Security through Government," "Security against Destructive Forces," "Opportunity through Education," and "Opportunity through Leisure." THE last day of the Congress was devoted to a working session where reports of Findings from the Round Tables were presented. A RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE resume of the International Women Writers' Conclave, held July 17-19 at the Palmer House, was given. The following Manifesto was adopted: "Forty years ago the women of the world held their first real International Congress during the Columbian Exposition at Chicago and set in motion a feminist movement, world-wide in sweep and directed towards the winning of sex equality in social, political and economic privilege. During these intervening years enormous power has come to women through their gains in personal privilege. And wherever the rights of citizenship such as free assembly, free speech, political participation and economic self-expression are still denied on account of sex, nationality or creed, that feminist movement must continue to have life and loyalty. It retains our full support and enthusiasm. "At this succeeding great International Congress of Women held at Chicago during the Century of Progress Fair in 1933, a second movement, likewise intended to be world wide in sweep, is launched and directed towards the winning of security and opportunity for all mankind. On the basis of free competition as between the sexes, nations and races of the world, the welfare of humanity has been inadequately accomplished. "We believe that every person, to whatever sex, race, nationality or creed he or she may belong, is entitled to security of life, work, the reward of labor, health and education; to protection against war and crime and to opportunity for selfexpression. Yet even in parts of the world where feminism has made its largest gains, these fundamentals of security and the good life are sadly lacking. Hence it is against social systems, not men, that we launch our CONGRESS second woman movement. We enter now a social-planning era following the harsh experiment with laissez faire and national aggressions, with a world war, and its horrible aftermath in the economic collapse. All civilization is at stake and the condition of society cannot be ignored. "Persuaded that only by intelligent, loyal, courageous, and united action on the part of men and women can government be induced to undertake programs designed for human welfare in the large, we consecrate ourselves to the task of winning their support for enterprises of that nature, frankly accepting the need' of experimentation. "The care and protection of all life is peculiarly in woman's keeping and thus at one of the most tragic hours in the world's history we pledge ourselves to assume this responsibility boldly and whole heartedly. "Where the feminist movement is fundamental in any country, we call upon the women of the world to give it their loyalty. Where the social planning movement is imperative, we call upon the women of the world to join us in carrying it forward. OF WOMEN 527 "Thus we shall not be serving two masters but all mankind, ourselves included." MAXY social functions were planned for foreign guests and all delegates enjoyed a pageant, '"Ethiopia Lifts as She Climbs" which was presented by the National Association of Colored Women and was written by Mrs. Sallie Stewart, fourth vice-president of the Council. The most interesting feature of the banquet was a demonstration of coordinated communication. Telegrams, cablegrams and radiograms were sent direct from the banquet hall to well known people throughout the world. Answers were received before the conclusion of the dinner. In some cases the total distance covered was as great as 28,000 miles. A large map of the world was illuminated, electric lights showing the approximate course of the mesages as they were sent and received. It is expected that definite recommendations will be sent out by the executive officers to the membership of the Council to suggest ways to further "Our Common Cause—Civilization."