Notes from the Field
Amy Brown Lyman
European Mission.
The General Board of the Relief Society was greatly pleased to have Mary Wells Whitney, who has recently returned from Europe, visit the general office and give a report of the activities of the Relief Society organizations in the European mission. Sister Whitney has been in charge of the Relief Society work in Europe while she has been in the mission field with her husband, Elder Orson F. Whitney, president of the European mission. During the first summer of their stay in Europe, President and Sister Whitney visited the various conferences on the continent. They were given a most cordial reception by the Saints in every locality in which they stopped. On their journey they visited France, Switzerland, Germany, Belgium, and Holland. During her presidency, Sister Whitney visited the Relief Societies of all the fourteen conferences in England, Scotland, Ireland, and Wales, at least once and some of them many times. She was also in close touch with some of the branch Societies. The women, all through the mission, are working to the best of their ability to better themselves and gain a knowledge of the gospel through the Relief Society lesson work and testimony meetings. They are also endeavoring to carry out the philanthropic work of the Relief Society. In order to raise the funds to make relief work possible, the various conferences delight in giving bazaars. The branch organizations contribute articles for sale which always include beautiful pieces of needle work. A considerable part of the proceeds is used to provide for the needs of the families in distress. One of the smallest branch societies is in Cheltenham, in the Bristol conference. This Society has four enrolled members who meet regularly and follow, carefully, the outlined work. Sister Nellie Middleton is the president of this small but faithful organization. One of the most progressive branches in the British mission is that of Leicester, in the Nottingham conference. A picture of the Society is printed herewith; all of the members but one were present on the day the picture was taken. The members are, reading from left to right, top row: Daisy Latey, Sarah Denton, Eva Charles, Florence Roberts, Dorothy Hickling, Sarah Clark, Grace Parker; second row: Annie Lloyd, Lucy Grace, Lillie Wheatley,
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 139
president; Louise Welch, Lizzie Welch, Lizzie Ware; third row: Annie Spence and Margaret Hickling. In connection with the Relief Society, in the Nottingham
Relief Society of Leicester Branch, Nottingham Conference
conference, a genealogical class has been organized. The women appreciate, very much, the opportunity of receiving instruction in this work. Nottingham, Sister Whitney reports, is a beautiful and interesting part of England. It was the home of the picturesque character, Robin Hood, who, with his merry men, held forth in the neighboring forests. The tunnels which were built to the castles, and the caves where the errant knights carried on their activities, are open to visitors. Nottingham was also the home of Lord Byron, and Sister Whitney visited the Hucknall-Torkard church, at Notts, where the eminent poet is interred.
Bannock Stake.
The Bannock stake president, Mrs. Minnie Sorensen, reports that the organizations in this stake are in good condition. Particular attention has been given to the keeping of accurate records. In the month of September the stake president and secretary-treasurer visited the president and secretary of each organization and spent two or three hours in each ward checking the business and going over the books. The Relief Society conferences were held in every ward then organized. A new branch has been organized since the conference schedule was carried out. This stake has adopted scripture reading among the


sisters and asks each sister to respond to the roll call on literary day with the sentiment that most impressed her from her month's reading. The Doctrine and Covenants was selected for the reading. This has been the means of the sisters becoming better acquainted with the revelations of God to his people in this dispensation. The stake board members visit the wards regularly. Forty-eight visits were made during 1922 which is an average of four visits to each ward. At the last union meeting, December 30, the stake board entertained the ward officers, after the business was completed. A program was given by the board members after which refreshments were served. A pleasant time was enjoyed by all the officers and workers present. At the union meetings special talks are given on timely subjects. Local doctors have made addresses on various occasions, and their instructions have been beneficial to the women.
Moapa Stake.
The Los Vegas branch which was organized May 23, 1922, has twenty-four members enrolled. Since the organization, the Society has made sixteen quilts, has helped families that have been in need, and has assisted the missionaries. A bazaar was held Nov. 25, and about $335 was cleared.
Eastern States Mission.
Mrs. Howard R. Driggs, president of the New York branch Relief Society, reports that the Society in New York is small but active. The average attendance is eleven or twelve. Of this number eight are subscribers to the Magazine. Within eighteen months this small organization handled about $1,000 for various purposes.
Southern States Mission.
In a letter to headquarters, President Grace E. Callis, of the Southern States mission, gives the following interesting report of the activities of the Relief Society: "The Relief Society work gives intelligent direction and expression to the energy and generosity of the southern women. Added enthusiasm is given to the work because many young women, unmarried, are members. Women in country districts, a long way from branches, are doing Relief Society work as individuals in the way of making clothing, towels, quilts, bed linen, etc. These articles are sent to mission headquarters and from there distributed to those in need. Throughout the mission a great
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 141
deal of labor is being done in feeding the hungry, caring for the sick and afflicted. The sisters are ready workers and responsive to the pleas of the distressed.
"Upwards of $240 has been raised by the Memphis Relief Society to help build their chapel. The Catawba Indian sisters paid about $30 toward the repair of the Church in the Indian Nation where they reside.
"At the conferences held in the cities and country branches substantial lunches, between the services, are furnished to the missionaries and visiting members by the Relief Society."
Beaver Stake.
The Beaver East ward Relief Society reports that their workers are earnest and faithful and that their officers are keenly alert to their responsible positions. This organization has been very active during the year just ended having given much valuable aid when and where it was needed. Fifty meetings were held during 1922; fifteen days were spent with the sick, while one hundred-sixty official visits were made to the sick. Fifty-one articles of clothing were made, some of which were distributed among the distressed and some contributed to the Red Cross. One dozen quilts and numerous yards of carpet were made during the year. Roll call is now answered by each member announcing the number of scriptural readings done individually at home; the report for this one ward shows a total of 3,185 chapters of scripture read during the year. Over two-hundred dollars was received and disbursed for charitable purposes. At the recent conference held by this organization, an excellent program was provided for an unusually large audience, which bore evidence of the interest and appreciation of the work that is being done. There was not one vacant seat in the church. A demonstration of the procedure during the regular teachers' visits at the homes was portrayed in excellent manner, and the lesson vividly brought out the fact that the faithful teacher of today carries an important message to each home.
Union Stake.
The past year has found the women of the Relief Society throughout Union stake very active. While very few are able to go to the temple to do work yet they have contributed generously to the temple fund. Each organization also assisted in buying material for temple clothing which was made by the different wards and presented to the Salt Lake Temple. The attendance of officers at union meeting has greatly increased during the past year. Health lectures, given by doc-


tors, and interesting lessons on social service subjects have added to the success of the meetings. Relief Society ward conferences have been held in each organization, for which the bishops have expressed their appreciation. At a recent bazaar the cooked food sale, held for the purpose of raising means to renovate the auditorium of the tabernacle, the sum of a thousand dollars was raised. Not only did each Relief Society contribute generously but the Neighborhood Club (composed of non-Latter-day Saint women) assisted, and the community spirit which resulted was appreciated as much as the material results obtained. The proceeds were used to kalsomine the auditorium and to assist in installing new electric fixtures. The Relief Society was also able to present a beautiful oil painting, The Restoration, painted by L. A. Ramsey, to the stake, which was hung in the stake tabernacle. Three hundred and fifty people attended the unveiling and enjoyed the inspirational sermon delivered by Elder George F. Richards, and the musical numbers rendered.
Hawaiian Mission.
The Hawaiian mission is progressing nicely and the president is getting some excellent reports from the various Relief Society organizations throughout the territory. Quite a number of sisters are taking active interest in the work and many of the poor and destitute people have been helped during the past year. The majority of the Relief Societies are conducted entirely in Hawaiian. The English-speaking Saints are encouraged to subscribe for the Magazine. For the benefit of some of the organizations, the lesson work is translated to the native tongue.
Australian Mission.
The Relief Society of the Melbourne, Victorian conference, has not grown to large numbers yet, but the sisters who belong are very active in their work. Now that the new church is built and paid for, it is the aim of the Relief Society of this conference to assist the other members of the conference in paying for the home recently purchased for the elders.
North Sevier Stake.
Miss Stena Scorup, mayor of Salina, has written the following sketch of the life of Mrs. Ellen M. Humphrey, and has expressed on behalf of the community an appreciation of Mrs. Humphrey's great service:
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 143
"Possibly the state of Utah does not hold a more loyal citizen nor the Church of Jesus Christ a more devout and faithful member than Ellen M. Humphrey of Salina, who retired from active, public service this last year, 1922. For nearly fifty years she has been an executive in one or another of the women's organizations of the Church at Salina, and at the same time she has been a most active leader in every step of her community progress since 1876. For a period of nearly thirty years she was president of the Salina ward Relief Society. Moreover she has been a strong mother in Israel, not only to her own family of twelve children but also to four grandchildren.
"This stalwart pioneer girl, Ellen Bailey, was born in Mill Creek, Utah, on December 10, 1856, not ten years after Brigham Young said, 'This is the place.' Her struggles in this early environment developed a vigorous and forceful character that has made her a leader among her people. She was married to Thomas G. Humphrey of Mill Creek on December 21, 1874, at the old Endowment house at Salt Lake, at the early age of eighteen. This couple resided at Mill Creek only two years, when they were requested to settle south of Salt Lake county.
"In February, 1876, Sister Humphrey, together with her husband and young baby journeyed southward through the vast valleys and towering mountains to Salina, a rendezvous of the Indians at that time. She made her home in this place of dugouts, which was frequently visited by Indian warriors who filled the young mother's heart with fear that she and her family might be massacred. She had been here but a short time when she saw the fire signals of the terrible massacre of Custer and his men, passed by the Sioux Indians of Wyoming to the Ute Indians of Utah.
"However, in 1877, Brother and Sister Humphrey felt so secure in their new adobe that they built for themselves the second 'shingled' house in Salina. This became a real home to the six boys and five girls who were born there—only five boys and one girl still survive. The Humphrey home was a home for all the children of the neighborhood, for Sister Ellen was a mother to all. She was as just and merciful to other children as she was to her own, aiding them in illness, assisting them in their disputes over games, and reading to all of them as they sat around the cozy fireplace, eating apples or popping corn. Grown men and women revere her today because she was considerate and kind to them as children.
"In this pioneer home she not only assisted the children with their education, but she also gained for herself an education that is surpassed by few people of her age. Hers was the best library of the community and people came from far and near to borrow


books. Sister Humphrey had read them all and she was therefore an excellent librarian. There was nothing frivolous in her choice of books for she was a serious, high-minded woman.
"In March of the same year that Brother and Sister Humphrey came to Salina, Sister Humphrey was made president of the Young Ladies Mutual Improvement Association. She was called to be counselor in the Relief Society, which position she held from 1880 to 1889. She was again called to the presidency of the Mutuals in 1886, which position she held until 1893.
"On January 5, 1893, she was made president of the Relief Society, and she acted in this capacity until July 2, 1922. During the period she served as president of this organization, she has been a mother to everyone in the community. She has such a broad human sympathy that no one has escaped her attention. Those who were most distressed and unfortunate received the kindest consideration. No one was ever ill or in need but that Sister Humphrey was there with her cheer and her blessing. For over forty years, even as a very young woman, she attended to the burial clothes and the dressing of the dead. During epidemics of diseases, she has faithfully served the distressed.
"In addition to her being a devout Latter-day Saint, Sister Humphrey has been a leader in the social and civic advancement of her community. She has been a loyal supporter of the schools, always taking a decisive stand, favoring officers and acts that have been progressive and wholesome. Her wisdom and foresight have aided the community in its most serious problems.
"She has not retired as a public worker because she is unable to continue her service, but because she wishes to render greater aid to her four orphan grandchildren. She is still an active, interested member of the ward and community. On her retirement the ward and community honored her at an elaborate program and banquet. Here the Second ward Relief Society presented to her a beautiful jardiniere and taboret. Every organization and club of the city was present on this occasion to honor this devout religious leader and exemplary citizen."
Morgan Stake.
On November 17, the Morgan stake Relief Society presented a comedy entitled, "Deacon Dubbs," in the local opera house. The play was greatly enjoyed by the audience which crowded the theatre to its capacity.