MUSIC DEPARTMENT Uses of the Baton Wade N. Stephens of the Tabernacle Organ Staff
THE purpose of the baton is to increase the visible length of the right arm. It should be held easily with any grip that will permit the baton to continue in a straight line with the forearm. The first function of the baton is to indicate the rhythm by using a definite beat-pattern, which shows where the accent occurs as well as the speed of the beat. The downbeat, which is always the strongest beat, indicates the strongest measure-accent?the first beat of the measure. The established beat-patterns are as follows: Duple rhythm (2/8, 2/4, 2/2, cut-time, fast 6/8) down, up, with a hook or bounce at the bottom. Triple rhythm (3/8, 3/4, 3/2, fast 9/8) down, right, up, forming a triangle, with a bounce at the end of each beat. Quadruple rhythm (4/8, 4/4, 4/2, fast 12/8) down, left, right, up diagonally to the beginning of the down-beat, with bounces to make beats definite. Slow 9/8 is beaten as triple time, with each beat divided into three, thus: DOWN, down, down, RIGHT, right, right, UP, up, up. The first beat of each group is large, the others small. Slow 12/8 is beaten as quadruple time, with the beats each divided into three as in 9/8. The baton is also used to give the cue beat. This is a small beat given before the first note to prepare the singers to start together. It is smaller than an ordinary beat but takes the same direction as the beat before the singing begins and the same length of time as a beat in the tempo of the piece. A small down beat will start the singing on the second beat; a small second beat will start the piece on the third beat, and so on. At the end of a piece or section of the piece, the singers must all be stopped together. This is accomplished by the cut-off, a sharp downward motion of the baton. At the end of the piece the downward motion continues until the baton disappears from sight at the conductor's side; if the piece is not finished, the baton is moved downward, then raised quickly to be ready to go on. When used this way in the course of a composition, the cutoff is also the cue beat for the next note. The fermata or hold is indicated by a movement of the baton directly toward the singers, holding it parallel to the front of the body with the point elevated a little. It is followed by the cut-off or by the cut-off and cue-beat combined. This motion may also be used on the last note of the piece instead of beating time for the duration of the last note. In addition to these purely mechanical functions, the baton is used to indicate tempo and to change the loudness.