Literature THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL Lesson 4 Les Miserables IN a course on the-novel the dominant literary figures of nineteenth-century France cannot be omitted. By almost universal consent Victor Hugo is recognized as one of the greatest French poets. His splendid collection of lyrics, his masterpieces in drama, his stupendous novels place him among the most renowned writers of all ages and races. It was said of him that he wrote as if he had "dipped his pen in incandescent lava". Readers are always struck by the passionate fervor, the dazzling color, the splendid imagery of his writing. He was born in Besancon, an old town and fortress in the east of France, in 1802, His father, who had been an officer in the service of the Army of the Republic, accompanied Joseph Bonaparte, brother of Napoleon, first to Naples, then to Madrid; the family had rather a wandering existence. Victor's first book of poems appeared in 1822, when he was just twenty years old, and he was early recognized as the foremost leader in that literary and artistic revolution which has been called Romanticism. Macy calls him "The prince of poets who held his throne for fifty years." He also says, "The variety and abundance of his work is past belief, and the disposition of later criticism to reduce his stature is in part a protest against his very 710 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE bulk." Phelps says "The great Romantics are supermen." Certainly this is true of Hugo?poet, dramatist, novelist?preeminent in all three fields of literature. His son, FrancoisVictor, made a complete translation of Shakespeare's works into French, a remarkable achievement, and the father wrote an introduction which fills a whole volume. It sets forth Hugo's view of the nature of the great English poet's genius in so brilliant a manner that it shows how high he might have risen as a literary critic. Politics occupied a great deal of Victor Hugo's time and thought. He lived practically through the nineteenth century, which has been called the age of revolution?industrial and social as well as political? and much of his finest writing was occasioned by public events as he experienced them, history in the making. His writings were colored by his early life in Spain. He found himself in difficulties many times by his fearless expression, and spent years in exile from France. His life was as active, as sad, as romantic and as thrilling as the great literary records he has created. His biographer, Adolphe Cohn, says: ""Posterity, in placing Victor Hugo among the greatest writers of all ages, will single out Hernani as his dramatic masterpiece, Les Chatiments, his magnificent collection of lyrics, as far above all the rest, and Les Miserables as his best novel." It is with the novel that our particular interest lies in this course. UGO'S activity in this field began early. When only twentythree he published Hans of Iseland, but it was merely a forerunner of his great works of later life?Notre Dame de Paris, Toilers of the Sea, Ninety Three, The Man Who Laughs, and Les Miserables, which was published April 3, 1862. Before publication Les Miserables had been translated into nine languages, and its simultaneous appearance at Paris, London, Brussels, New York, Madrid, Berlin, Saint Petersburg and Turin was a literary event. It has since been translated into twelve other languages. Les Miserables is a universal book, for it has an appeal to readers of "every age and every taste". It appeared when the author was sixty years of age. According to Phelps, not any of the very great novels have been written when their authors were young. There must be a seasoned judgment, a perfected experience for the best creations, impossible to youth. So in Les Miserables we have Hugo with his enormous knowledge of life and history and his magnificent power in full maturity, producing "a social record" of irresistible fascination. The immediate success of the book was astounding, and it has continued to hold its place in the front ranks of the world's best fiction. The work is divided into five main books, but the central figure in the novel is Jean Valjean, a convict who became a really great man, a soul transfigured and redeemed through suffering. It is a complicated history which involves many characters, chiefly types of the poor, the unfortunate and the vicious of Paris; hence, the name?Miserable?in the full etymological sense of the word. France had lived through centuries of misrule and oppression under the Bourbons, which reached a dramatic climax in the Revolution.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 711
Napoleon had played his marvelous role in French history; there had been the re-establishment of the monarchy and its overthrow, the Republic again created. It was a time of the most intense political unrest and unstable economic conditions with the people, as always, the most acute sufferers. There were social problems which might well occupy the mind of a great writer. Les Miserables presents them with unforgettable vividness. Are these people, whom society cannot but declare law-breakers, really guilty? Are they responsible for their deeds, or does the responsibility belong elsewhere? Is the real offender the man who performs the deed, or the man who places him in a position where he can hardly escape sinning against social and moral order? One feels that Victor Hugo, with his great tenderness, is always asking: "Above all, are not these people to be pitied?"
LES MISERABLES is a most comprehensive picture of Paris, and expresses the author's conception of his own time and his suggestions for the future. It is undoubtedly a novel with a purpose, as are the great humanitarian works of Charles Dickens, but the author's poetic genius and his feeling for the ideal and the picturesque find ample opportunity for expression along with the reformer's practical sense and science. The opening chapters present one of the most saintly characters ever portrayed in fiction. The Bishop of D??? shapes his life in literal obedience to the teachings of the Savior. He is the living embodiment of mercy and kindness, tolerance and sympathy. Hugo's conception of the real Christian is portrayed in the man, who was also a very fine scholar. "He could say the grandest things in the most common language; and as he spoke all dialects, his words entered the souls of all. Moreover, his manners with the rich were the same as with the poor. He condemned nothing hastily, or without taking account of circumstances. He would say, 'Let us see the way in which the fault came to pass'... He was indulgent towards women and towards the poor upon whom the weight of society falls most heavily.... Teach the ignorant as much as you can. Society is culpable in not providing instruction for all, and it must answer for the night which it produces. If the soul is left in darkness, sins will be committed. The guilty one is not he who commits the sin, but he who causes the darkness. As we see he had a strange and peculiar way of judging things. I suspect that he acquired it from the Gospel." This sets the stage for Hugo's love of contrast?never more dramatically employed than in the introduction of the great character who is the central theme of the novel. It is also a terrible indictment against society for its cruelty to the unfortunate. In the beginning Jean Valjean was a simple hard-working peasant who sought in vain for employment, and in desperation one night he stole a loaf of bread for his sister's starving children. He was arrested and condemned to the galleys for five years, a punishment lengthened to nineteen years by his attempts to
712 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
escape. Cruelty and privation made him inert and brutish. "Jean Valjean entered the galleys sobbing and shuddering: he went out hardened; he entered in despair: he went out sullen." The author shows himself to be a master psychologist in his analysis of the workings of this man's mind. After savage treatment endured nineteen years for breaking a pane of glass and stealing a loaf of bread, Jean Valjean was, as his yellow passport indicated, "a very dangerous man" when he was at last set at liberty. It is impossible to conceive of a more tragic demonstration of "man's inhumanity to man" than the experiences of the released convict as he begs for food and shelter, and though he offers to pay for it he cannot find accommodation in a stable or even in the jail. He learned that "liberation is not deliverance. A convict may leave the galleys behind but not his condemnation." Hungry and utterly exhausted, despairing of finding a place to stay, he lay down on a stone bench on a public street when "a good woman, coming out of the church," asked him why he was there. He told her he had knocked at every door, and they had all been closed to him. "You have knocked at every door?' she asked. 'Yes.' 'Have you knocked at that one there?' 'No.' 'Knock there.' She pointed to the Bishop's little low house across the Square." That door opened to receive him. These two men are thus placed before the reader with all the dramatic skill of a supreme artist?the Bishop of D???, in very deed a saint, Jean Valjean, the convict. "Anything less than the first would have failed to soften the second." With wonderful accuracy of detail, the events of that memorable night in the home of the Bishop are related. The powers of good and evil in their eternal conflict stand revealed in the flesh. This conflict, presented by a master novelist, shows with unflinching touch on the one hand the captivity of the soul and the inevitable misery that follows the breaking of moral law; on the other, the matchless unconquerable power that lies in the truly good. In return for the first hospitality and kindness he had ever known, Jean Valjean steals the silver plates and escapes in the night. When the police bring him back the next day, the Bishop saves him by declaring that the silver had been a free gift. " 'Ah, there you are!' said he, looking towards Jean Valjean, 'I am glad to see you. But I gave you the candlesticks also, which are silver like the rest, and would bring two hundred francs. Why did you not take them along with the plates?'... He went to the mantle-piece, took the two candlesticks and brought them to Jean Valjean. 'Now', said the Bishop, 'go in peace.... By the way, my friend, when you come again you need not come through the garden. You can always come in and go out by the front door. It is closed only with a latch day or night... Forget not, never forget that you have promised me to use this silver to become an honest man." Jean Valjean, who had no recollection of this promise, stood confounded. The Bishop had laid much stress upon these words as he uttered them. He continued, solemnly: " 'Jean Valjean, my brother:
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 713
you belong no longer to evil, but to good. It is your soul that I am buying for you. I withdraw it from dark thoughts and from the spirit of perdition, and I give it to God Almighty.' " The chapter entitled "Petit Gervais" is one of the most important in the story. It describes Jean Valjean's hasty exit from the city, his encounter with the little boy, Petit Gervais, and his theft of the forty sous piece from the child. This chapter is one of those which places Les Miserables among the finest type of the psychological novel as well as of the romantic realistic. The theft itself had a very important reaction upon Jean Valjean's later life. Why had he stolen the child's money? He could not have explained it. "Was it the final effect, the final effort of the evil thoughts he had brought from the galleys?... It was not the man who had stolen, it was the beast which from habit and instinct had stupidly set its foot upon that money, while the intellect was struggling in the midst of so many new and unknown influences. When the intellect awoke and saw this act of the brute, Jean Valjean recoiled in anguish and uttered a cry of horror!" He fell on his knees and burst into tears?it was the first time he had wept for nineteen years.
Questions and Suggestions
1. Why was Victor Hugo so well qualified to write a great novel? To what literary school did he belong?
2. Do you agree with William Lyon Phelps as to the age of those who have produced the greatest novels? Cite examples of other authors.
3. What were the conditions in France during Hugo's lifetime that provided the setting for great literary works?
4. What is the significance of the title Les Miserables?
5. Have someone describe the household and home life of the Bishop of D???.
6. Briefly discuss Jean Valjean as he first appears.