Woman As An Interpreter Of The Faith By Maude B. Jacob
"Education is the power to think clearly, the power to act well in the world's work, and the power to appreciate life."—Brigham Young.
TO education has been given the credit for making the woman of today. Education has not only found new powers within woman, but it has found new uses for her powers. The achievements of woman in every age have been the product of her capacities and her opportunities. Her opportunities for education came with the last century. Freedom for self-realization has grown rapidly in this age. New powers, new opportunities, new freedom directed by her spiritual powers will fit woman for one of her greatest roles, "the refiner of civilization". Education is as old as the race, its task being that of patterning lives. In tribal tents, in igloos and boweries, in cabin homes and in million-dollar buildings lives have been patterned. Customs, beliefs, and ideals have played a significant part in the patterning, and still do. Thus, education has passed through many changes in its adjustments to the changing values of life. It is the ever-changing intellectual, social, and material needs of each age that have builded the formal pattern of today's education. During the past few decades, a never-ceasing process of evaluation has been in progress. Those individuals and organizations who are concerning themselves with individual progress and happiness are keenly alert to the challenges of the modern world. One of the most comprehensive statements of the general objectives of education today is the statement: "Education in the broad sense is the process whereby individuals develop in personality through interaction and relationship with their environment—material, human, and divine—and whereby society renews its life and brings about its refinement and progress." By the side of this statement, we place that of Brigham Young quoted above. It is the statement of a man whose days spent in formal education numbered less than a dozen, but which under divine guidance continued for well over half a century. According to the formal statement, lives are to be patterned for successful living and for the refinement of society. From the divinely inspired statement, we know that the appreciation of life includes the truth that man's eternal progress and happiness is predicated upon the experience and wisdom gained during earth-life. If, then, earth-life is God's school, what then is the supreme role of education? Today as never before the product of education is being scrutinized. The complexities of modern life are creating new challenges for young and old alike. It is natural, then, that the system developed to pattern life for successful living should discover its strengths and its weaknesses. Sat-
662 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
isfaction comes from the glorious opportunities given to modern youth to meet life more adequately equipped than any generation before. The alarm which exists in the minds of many is the failure of information to assist in the formation of wholesome attitudes, of high ideals and the control of appetites and passions, impulses and desires. A most significant statement of alarm has been made recently: "A large part of the youth of America at the present time are unaccustomed to discipline in thought and life. Their education is lacking in those activities which develop intellectual vigor, power of decision, restraint, and concentration with a view to finding successful solutions to the problems they are encountering in living in the world today." It would seem then that formal education is failing in helping young people in general to think clearly and to act wisely. How shall this challenge be met? Formal education has its responsibility. But to the home and the church comes the responsibility of bringing to education its spiritual values, "the power to appreciate life". PERHAPS the greatest immediate need of all lives, young as well as old, is direction for the control of human desires. For this task, information alone is inadequate; values must be designated and self-control must be motivated through attitudes and ideals. Today, an analysis of the paramount desires of mankind are health, security, success, and pleasure. The business of the world is organized to meet the needs and satisfaction of mankind. The greatest human need, security of living, is being met more adequately than ever before. Selling new desires by business, to use the products of industry, is utilizing all the available educational resources. Definitely planned campaigns suggest to us what to eat and what to wear, not in terms of need always but in terms of what industry has to sell. The lure of automobile advertising is _ evident on all sides. For several years the tobacco industry has employed every available means to increase the consumption of its products, musical programs and advertising being the chief vehicles. The subtlety of it all is revealed in the billboard advertising: First, it portrayed a beautiful girl admiring a young man smoking; next, the girl was being handed a cigarette; finally, the girl is smoking. What was happening in the interim of the development of this desire by industry? Science continued to publish the facts concerning the evil effects of tobacco. Parents and leaders pleaded and denounced in turn. What of formal education? Had the educational forces used the same skill as industry had used to promote the desire to smoke to direct understanding, to cultivate attitudes and to stimulate idealism for the control of behavior, the problem would not be as alarming as it is today. The challenge is obvious, new vision and new direction to meet this and many other desires that individuals must control if growth and happiness are to be attained. To pattern lives, lives must be touched. A professor of literature, from whose lectures students must be driven to attend the other classes for which they arescheduled, has this for his teaching guide: "Keep away RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 663 from young minds unless you have something inspiring to impart." To the hundreds of Wellesley young women who came under her care, Alice Freeman Palmer was a true inspirer. As she herself expressed it, "I am trying to make girls wiser and happier. It is people who count, you -want to put yourself into people; they touch other people, then others still, and so you go on working forever." Her greatest admirer, her husband, said of this great teacher, "She adopted the idea of Jesus that if you would remold the world, the wise way is to devote your time to friendly talks with a dozen young fishermen." The Alice Freeman Palmer Memorial at Wellesley has a message for all teachers as vital as methods of this great teacher. At one side of the altar with its flame representing knowledge stands a young girl who has just lighted her lamp. In the center of the monument is a beautiful feminine form with one hand resting on the girl's shoulder, directing her into the future—a fitting memorial to one who lovingly and earnestly in- ' spired the lives of those whom she touched as she pointed out to them a worthy pattern of living. The lovying tenderness of the Teacher of Galilee made of simple fishermen the greatest heroes of Christianity. THE natural conclusion — that comes from an analysis of the challenges of modern life is that life today demands a higher degree of sublimation than ever before. The Pioneers were not concerned with automobiles and movies. A wagon and team was to them the greatest of travel convenience; a rag or husking bee and an occasional dance on a dirt floor to the light of burning logs or tallow candles provided the finest in recreation. Life for them demanded courage and fortitude, but the greatest challenge was the physical environment to be conquered. Individual challenges and handicaps have been met heroically in all ages. John Milton, the poet, met his blindness nobly with verse of greater grandeur and to nobler purpose. Beethoven and Dvorak, the musicians, created greater harmonies because of their deafness; the heroic struggles of Helen Keller and Laura Dewey Bridgeman are known universally, while every day in every part of the world men and women in every station of life are becoming conquerors, subduing self and rising above their difficulties through their spiritual reinforcements. Again the question must be considered, is the apparent lack of the necessary sublimation for the challenges of today in reality a weakening of spirituality? Is the weakening of spirituality as George Meredith defined it, "For this reason man falls from God, that they cling to Him in their weakness rather than in their strength"? In other words, it is reasonable to assume that the spirituality needed to meet the challenges of this age is inadequate. To the women of today comes the challenge to direct all the educational forces available to the achievement of patterning lives more effectively for complete living. This can be woman's great adventure in education. Educating herself, of necessity, will be part of the task; training herself to think clearly, to understand the forces that build attitudes and ideals and those that create desires 664 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and direct inpulses; to appreciate life with all its facets. For her, understanding must follow on the heels of knowledge; poise and self-control must refine her own actions, and her recourse to divine guidance must be sincere and constant. Then, her life will be as a light set upon a hill for the women of her own generation. This task will fall to the ordinary woman. It is this woman, not the professional woman who busies herself with many specialized services, the average woman who makes or unmakes life for us. They are the women who carry the burdens of the world—the homemakers. Because the homemakers are realizing their responsibilities outside the home as well as inside the home, because they are availing themselves of the opportunities of education, and because with all the newness and opportunity that has come to them they still cling heroically to the highest ideals of living, they can become the servants of all. The teachings, activities, and experiences of the Church are inspired guidance to the women of the Church to become, in very deed, a beacon light in this great cause. The sublime truth given to the Prophet Joseph Smith "the glory of God is intelligence" was the initial motivation of education to the Latter-day Saints. Believing sincerely that earthlife was in reality God's school which would carry man along the eternal path of progress, education has been a sacred obligation to them. The history of the early settlements of the Church, Kirtland, Independence, Far West, Nauvoo, Winter Quarters, and all early settlements of Utah reveals that schools were planned as homes were being built. When Brigham Young commissioned that great teacher Karl G. Maeser to direct the general activities of the Church, he did not designate subjects or textbooks; his only command was, "Teach nothing, not even the multiplication table, without the Spirit of God." Today, the Sunday Schools, other auxiliary organizations and the seminaries and institutes carry on the religious education program of the Church for all its members that through their reactions and relationships to their environment, material, human, and divine, they are progressing toward eternal perfection and happiness. THINKING of the Relief Society and its part in the educational program of the Church, we appreciate more completely how sincerely and courageously it is attempting to meet the greatest of all objectives, to bring to all women a true appreciation of life. This great school for the women of the Church was divinely inspired. In this school again it is the average woman who, fills the role of teacher. Ever mindful that facts are only valuable as they are an aid in interpreting life, she prepares her lessons amidst the manifold duties of everyday life. Her sincere desire to touch the lives of the women of her association helps her to surmount any obstacles of academic experience. With recourse to divine guidance and the counsel of her leaders she carries the torch of a great cause, the cause of individual progress and happiness. There comes to all women a new opportunity, to become a motivating force to aid all the educational forces available to pattern young lives RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 665 for complete living. In this role, like Deborah of old, she can with moral energy and spiritual guidance become a crusader in a great cause. Other women and other organizations must be brought to a realization of the place of education in the welfare of mankind, the need of a 'more intelligent understanding of the conflicts of modern life, and the possibilities of a more vital and more inspired approach to the problems of human and social progress. In this way women may render aid in the great task of education—the trefinement of society and the happiness of mankind. The spiritual powers of women are most important for the future of civilization. Wisely directed the energies of the woman-power of the Church are a great force. Thus can the women of the Church turn all the powers of their womanhood to the interpretation of their Faith that all may come to a true appreciation of life.