Just A Bundle Of Nerves By Alice Morrey Bailey
"WORRY:" (according to Webster) "To tease; to trouble; to fatigue; to harass with importunity or with care and anxiety." In the complete definition he used the word "harass" four times. People say it differently: "I live on my nerve," a pet delusion. "I'm so worried, I'm nearly crazy," usually an exaggeration. "All I am is a bundle of nerves," an inaccuracy. "I have the jitters," which is the modern version. Streets, homes and businesses are full of people who are worried. The farmer is caught between the mortgage and the watershed; the businessman between the slump and the overhead; Mother and Dad can't choose between lack of funds and the immorals that menace growing children. Marital problems, problems of health and old age, money, social obligations, all are causes of worry. All of these may be legitimate causes, but people who have none of these worry about other things: The hats women wear, the way girls dress, new styles in love-making, crime in a remote city, war on another continent, or the weather. The Government budget in 1960 or the trials our forefathers had to bear are worried over by some—not because they are really interested in any of these things, but because they have an appetite for worry, and it must be appeased. Now, such a worry diet would be fine if it took the place of vitamins or exercise: if it could be substituted for a shampoo, finger-wave and facial; if it healed the sick, made the rain to fall, or swelled the bank account. But it does none of these things. It saps your pep, puts lines in your face, makes you ill and robs you of actual money. All sorts of calamities can be traced directly to its devastating action. Not the least of these is that it often attracts the very things which it fears most. For example, in war time a person may be worried over the fact that sugar may increase in cost. Worry is catching. Soon mass worry causes a rush on the market and sends the price to abnormal heights, heights not warranted by the laws of supply and demand. Worry crowds out efficiency, dominates the emotions, and hampers physiological activity. Years ago, I heard a doctor make the statement that worry, fear and anger pour a definite poison into the system. More recent study throws new light upon this statement. No definite poison has been isolated, but the human body is more and more appreciated as an extremely delicately-balanced mechanism. Nature measures for it exact proportions of certain elements: Electricity, positive and negative currents; gland secretions, etc. Nature counts the blood cells, red and white; it measures the liquids, the chemicals, takes the temperature. The yes and no are inflexible in the human body. Whenever this perfect balance is upset, there is trouble. Worry hits directly at the nervous system and upsets this perfect balance, because the nervous system controls all the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 681 bodily functions. Its intricate telephone system is connected with every minute part. Under normal operation everything goes smoothly —circulation, breathing, gland secretions, elimination, digestion, all the workings, large and small. But a worried person is like a factory. With a prankster at the controls —some operations are slowed down,. Some are speeded up; the nerves not only say when to stop but when to go. "I HAVE a terrific headache," "I can't sleep," "I can't eat," "I'm so upset," "I'm just a bundle of nerves," people say. They have nausea, and the doctor calls it a nervous stomach; they become mentally ill, and we speak of them as having a "nervous break-down"; they die, and we say, "She died of shock." Fear, worry, anger, strife, and destruction are the five generations. Fear is the father of worry who is the father of anger, whose son is strife. The first-born of strife is destruction. It is a chain that breaks civilization, nations, institutions, families and friendships. And of the chain, worry is the weak link. To worry is human. It is one of the things that distinguishes us from beasts and trees. But reason and self-control also distinguish us. As the nervous system controls the body, so reason and self-control can protect the nervous system. How shall we apply them to worry? "I bought a fur coat," one woman told me. "Then I laid awake nights and worried because it cost so much. Finally, I could hardly bear to wear the coat. Then I decided I was spoiling it with worry, and I took myself in hand. I argued to myself that I had no children who were being robbed of pleasure which that money could buy; my husband was pleased that I had the coat; the money I paid for it was prospering other people, furriers, artisans, trappers; I could well afford to buy it. I stopped worrying and enjoyed the beauty and warmth of my fur coat." This intelligent woman applied reason to worry. "I couldn't sleep one night because I had neglected so long visiting a woman who had lost her husband, so I made it a point to visit her the very next day. The result was a feeling of satisfaction and a good night's sleep." Thus, the good old gospel of removing the cause to correct the disease was applied. There are many recipes: "If you are worried about a decision, sleep on it." "If you are harried and jumpy, lean back and let your mind go blank for half an hour." These work for some. You may have your own recipe. "If you must worry," says Vash Young in his book, "do it only on Thursday." "I’ll not think of it today. I’ll think about it tomorrow," Scarlett O'Hara of Gone With The Wind promises herself. "Try substitution," the psychologists say. In Dark Victory, Bette Davis portrays a girl who cannot conquer death, so she transfers her fight to conquering fear, and succeeds. By so doing, she is relieved of strain and puts a lifetime of happiness into the short space allotted her. Is your grief for the one who has gone in death, or for yourself who is left behind? Answer to yourself 682 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE the question, and then, if you still weep, work is the antidote say the psychologists. Work until you must sleep; rest and time will ease the burden. Many worries can be prevented. "I never make a promise I can't keep," an excellent guaranty for serenity. If you can't stand disappointment, don't allow yourself to anticipate too much. Give yourself whole-heartedly to every job, and there will be no regrets that you didn't do it better. "T can't stand remorse and' worry about not doing right," says one man, "so I live my religion." If you have worry or sorrow, skirt it, shun it, go out to meet and conquer it, argue yourself out of it, relax and forget it, prevent it, substitute work and other interests for it. Do anything—but don't worry. "OUR LITTLE PRAYERS Our little prayers, dear God, remember, pray, A woman cries them out so, night and day. Let Baby sleep awhile—he needs his rest. Please help our Danny Joe to do his best. Don't let old Mrs. Peele have too much pain, And bring the thirsty grass 'Thy tender rain. I thank Thee, Lord—I count my blessings o'er— Keep me from blaming John, when feet are sore, And take the fever from the child next door. Help me to hold Thy peace and keep the morning song All the way long— And hold Thou safely all I love today. Our little prayers, dear God, remember, pray.