Social Service Lesson 4
Psychology of Resisting Sales Pressure
I. WHAT DOES A PURCHASE CONSIST OF PSYCHOLOGICALLY?
While there can be no hard and fast definition of the steps in a purchase, we find that a formula which shows roughly the stages through which a purchase progresses is helpful in understanding the mental processes involved in buying. The purchaser, in whom our interest centers in this lesson, may better fortify himself against sales pressure by understanding something of the methods of selling. E. K. Strong, of Stanford Graduate School of Business, has given us the following formula of a purchase: (1) A want must be felt by the buyer; (2) a commodity which is considered adequate to satisfy the
714 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
want is thought of; (3) a trade name of some particular commodity or store is then thought of; (4) a purchase is made, after which (5) satisfaction or dissatisfaction is experienced. If the purchase is carried through and satisfaction is found, the process is likely to be repeated the next time a similar want is felt. With further repetition a habit of buying then becomes established. A salesman aims to point out to us, or to arouse within us, wants of which we might not have been fully aware before. He also suggests his commodity as the best way to satisfy the want. The aim of far-sighted salesmen is to make a customer, not merely to make a sale. He, therefore, arouses in us pleasant feelings in connection with his commodity and its trade name in order to make us more likely to buy the same thing again when we again feel the same want. To do this he often tactfully flatters us on our good judgment and reminds us of the satisfaction of using his article. A store will do the same through surrounding the article with pleasant impressions and through courteous treatment during and following the purchase. If so-called "high pressure" sales tactics are used on customers, a sale may be made but not a customer, because too often the buyers are not satisfied and because they experience too much unpleasantness to repeat the transaction. Tosdale defines "high pressure" salesmanship as follows: "The meaning of the term is not particularly clear, but usually it is taken to mean that the salesman dominates the buyer and compels him 'willy-nilly' to sign on the dotted line. Such tactics, often used in selling specialties when the salesman is not aiming to build up a repeat business, include resorting to subterfuges and tricks to get access to the prospective buyer, rushing of decisions, and forcing of purchases by the sheer force of talk and personality. The salesman is usually working under a strain; he depends more upon talk and impulses aroused to bring orders than he does upon any attempt to ascertain and satisfy the wants of the particular buyer." (Tosdale, H. R., Principles of Personal Selling, p. 242. New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1925. Quoted by Strong, E. K., Psychological Aspects of Business, p. 347.)
II. SOME DEVICES USED TO INFLUENCE OUR DISCRIMINATION IN BUYING.
Modern competition in business has perfected many competing articles up to near the same standard of quality. Toothpastes, for example, contain in most cases essentially the same sort of compounds. They may differ in taste, smell, color, and texture; but these differences are greater than the differences in their cleansing power. We are, therefore, often led to buy one or the other because of some rather superficial characteristic. Salesmanship and advertising lead us to think of differences in products whether the differences are important or not. There are certain tricks by which articles are made to appear larger or better, which we should fully realize if we are to use good judgment in buying. For example, articles packed in bright colors look larger than those in subdued colors. Experiments have also shown that cans
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 715
with a certain proportion between their width and height look larger than others with different proportions. For articles packed in glass containers the proportion most favorable to size illusion is used; and in addition, the glass is made to magnify the appearance of the contents, i.e. green and stuffed olives. A more direct way to give an erroneous impression of size is to pack a small quantity in a large container, as is done with many candy bars in order to attract the "large eyes" of hungry boys and girls. The color, shape, and "feel" of an article has considerable influence over our ability to discriminate its value. The successful merchant has his customers feel the goods in order to make a deeper impression. The more senses through which we are impressed with an article, the stronger is the impression made.
III. HOW A PLEASANT FEELING TONE IS CREATED.
In the section in which we discussed the steps in a purchase, we saw that the arousal of pleasant feelings is essential, not only to bring about the sale in the first place, but in order to lead us to come back again when we feel another need. Many clever devices are used for creating pleasant feeling tone. A pleasing package goes a long way toward selling an article. This is particularly true with most cosmetics. Daintily, well proportioned, delightfully colored bottles and boxes create a pleasant feeling toward the article they contain, and our ability to discriminate actual quality is influenced by this impression. These devices for creating pleasant feeling tone are especially important in influencing our buying when we have no established habits of asking for trade-named articles. The arrangement on shelves so as to enhance the attractiveness of the packages is also important. The radio in recent years has done much toward arousing pleasant feelings by enjoyable music, humor, and other entertaining features. These feelings are carefully associated in our minds with the trade name of the articles so that when we enter a store and are in doubt about what to buy, this trade name is likely to be pleasantly aroused. The very sound of the trade name itself is carefully planned to create pleasant feelings, and pleasant names are perhaps more easily remembered. Pleasant clerks or salesmen play a most important part in creating the right feeling tone toward a store or product. Repeat orders often result simply from a pleasant remembrance of the clerk, and when only small differences in the actual quality of similar articles exists, the previous impression made by the salesman becomes the deciding factor between making only one sale or making a customer.
IV. A FEW DEVICES USED BY SALESMEN IN INFLUENCING CUSTOMERS.
In making a sale, a salesman must first of all make contact with you. In stores, this is simple because you come to the counter with a want in mind; but salesmen who must rustle their own prospects have the task of getting to talk to you. This is difficult because when they come you are usually busy with something else and are annoyed at their coming. To start with, then, you have un-
716 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
pleasant feelings toward them. They will use every device to make you feel happy that they came, so that you will give them a hearing. If you are not interested in what they have, you do well not to permit them to get started on their argument at all. In the sales manual of a well-known brush company, the salesman is told to pursue the following procedure in getting an interview with Madam Housewife. He is to call just before dinner on the first day, present a card stating that if she will keep it for a few days he will bring a free brush which he will give her in exchange for the card. The interview is then ended with a pleasant "Good Morning". Madam Housewife thinks, "Now, there is a considerate salesman to offer to give me something, and he did not bother me while I'm preparing dinner." A few days later, he calls in the afternoon with the brush in hand and asks for the card to be exchanged for it. While the lady is gone after the card, the salesman is to step inside the door so that she cannot slam it in his face. He then asks for the privilege of showing some of his other brushes, and so succeeds in getting an interview. A good salesman, once he gains an interview, exerts himself to establish friendly relations with his prospective customer by pleasant conversation, clever flattery, or some other device. He then proceeds into his sales argument by leading the customer to admit some minor points, thereby establishing the "yes response". This is done frequently to build up a receptive or yielding attitude in the customer so that it may carry over when she is finally urged to buy. The price of quality goods is also avoided until the listener seems to be convinced of the advantages of the new products and until the wants of the buyer seem sufficiently aroused. The obstacle that the price may present is minimized in view of the satisfaction the purchase will bring, or "easy" payment plans are suggested. Finally, there will be an effort to hasten the close of the sale, which effort is designed to prevent cooling off and reflection on the appealing but illogical arguments given. If a house is the article to be sold, we are told that another prospect is to give an answer on the deal tomorrow, and haste is therefore important. A good salesman knows that if we "think it over' we probably will talk to others in the family or perhaps to other salesmen and much of his glowing talk will be neutralized; hence, the sale must be closed now.
V. FURTHER WAYS OF MAKING BUYING EASY.
We purchase something when our want for it is strong enough to overcome the obstacles to buying. Perhaps we want something, but we want more to keep our money for something else. Or, suppose there is almost an even balance between our want for some article and our want for thrift. In that case, slight obstacles such as the nuisance of having to go to town in the crowds is enough to favor our thrift. Or perhaps before it becomes convenient to buy something of which we have thought, it becomes more convenient to buy something else, (thanks
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 717
to a salesman who may cross our way). Delivery service often induces buying because it does away with the inconvenience barrier. The display of articles in our modern drug stores makes it easy to pick up something we may want but for which we would not ask. "Cash and carry" stores utilize the convenience advantage in letting people serve themselves. The most common objection we raise against the purchase of an article is that we have insufficient money just now. In recent years this objection is easily overruled by suggesting "easy" payment plans or charge accounts. We are persuaded to take the satisfaction of a new automobile or a new refrigerator now and to postpone the "pain" of paying for it until some other time. Needless to say, much financial bondage is brought upon the heads of people with limited means by easy payment plans. That time purchases always cost considerably more than cash purchases seldom occurs to most people, and salesmen are careful to quote the price in small monthly amounts rather than in terms of the large total outlay.
VI. WHAT RULES SHALL WE FOLLOW IN RESISTING SALES PRESSURE?
Resistance of sales pressure depends upon our understanding of sales methods, because many of the same "tricks of the trade" can be used by the purchaser. The seller is human and has wants just as the buyer has.
1. Reverse sales strategy and use it on the seller. For example, appeal to his desire to build up his business through making his customers so well satisfied with the price, quality, and service that they will tell their neighbors. The salesman is as dependent upon his customers for what he wants as the customer is upon the salesman. You may also influence the salesman by making him like you through your courteous and pleasant treatment. If he likes you, he will often exert a greater effort to satisfy you.
2. Don't let an aggressive salesman know what your wants and "buying manias" are, because they are the weak links in your chain of resistance. The salesman is likely to strike you at these vulnerable points if you let him know what they are. In conversation, say as little as possible about your real feelings and desires.
3. Likewise, don't reveal your objections to a purchase, because if they are the fortification by which you are resisting the purchase, you have no other defense should they be broken down. Say that you do not care to buy and that you prefer not to give your reasons for not buying.
4. Ask the price early if you think the whole proposition depends upon how much it costs. Insist that the price come before the sales argument so that as you proceed you can discount each point in terms of what it may cost you.
5. Refuse to make minor admissions which may prepare you for admitting that you should buy. Assume a non-committal attitude and refuse to say "yes" to anything unless you have to.
6. Learn to discount irrelevant, unimportant features of an article. We should learn to detect the difference between sound fact and the
718 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"halo effect" of pleasant feelings which comes from the salesman or the superficial qualities of an article which often deceive us as to the real value of what we are buying. Learn to look for actual weight and quantity labels on containers rather than permitting their appearance to misguide you. 7. Postpone all important purchases. Discuss them with other persons who have not been under the spell of the salesman. Give yourself a chance to reflect on the really important considerations. Shop around, compare prices and values. There is usually a saving to be found by shopping judiciously, and on large transactions the saving is well worth the effort. 8. Patronize reputable dealers who are interested in building up trade through satisfied customers, rather than "fly by night" salesmen who work hard for sales today but who care nothing about making satisfied customers. A reputable dealer will stand behind what he sells, whereas transient salesmen sense no such responsibility; and even though there might sometimes be a slight saving in price from the canvasser, the final value for your money is likely to be less.
VII. BUDGETING ONE'S MEANS IS THE SAFEST PROTECTION AGAINST FOOLISH SPENDING.
We may have wondered why we should resist sales pressure anyway. The main reason is that we want to be sure to spend our money for those articles and services which we want and need most. If we follow a sensible budget plan, such as suggested by the Relief Society, we are prevented from forgetting a greater want while satisfying a lesser one. A budget prepared in advance of sales pressure is our most sensible way of seeing just what our real needs and wants are. A budget schedule in the back of our minds goes a long way toward preventing clever sales and advertising appeals from carrying us away from common sense principles of spending. Care in being economical does not mean we need be "stingy", but means that we want to let our money go farther toward satisfying all of our wants, including saving for our children's education or missions, for the purchase of a home, for our security during declining years, to say nothing of being prepared for the many emergencies which are likely to befall us.
Problems for Discussion
1. Show how small differences in actual quality of articles are used to advantage in selling and advertising strategy.
2. What part do pleasant feelings play in establishing buying habits?
3. What does true economy mean to you? How does budgeting fit in with your idea of economy?
4. What rules have you found in your experience to be valuable in resisting sales pressure?
References
1. Chase, S., and Schlink, F. J., Your Money's Worth, New York: Macmillan, 1931. Popular discussion of various sales methods which should make the buyer keep on his guard.
2. Phillips, M. D., Skin Deep, Washington, N. J., Consumers' Research. Popular discussion of cosmetic sales abuses.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 719
3. Schlink, F. J., Eat, Drink and Be Wary, Washington, N. J., Consumers' Research. A popular discussion of diet and food adulteration from the point of view of the consumer.
4. Snow, A. J., Psychology in Business Relations, Chicago: Shaw, 1925, pp. 21-43. Discussion of consumers' education for consumers' use of psychology in buying.
5. Strong, E. K., Psychological Aspects of Business, New York: McGraw-Hill, 1938, pp. 15-21, 318-347. Technical but readable account of principles of selling, from which many suggestions can be obtained on sales resistance.