—Kathleen B. Nelson. Good Taste In Home Decoration By I. A. Fisher THERE are many reasons why I modern design is far superior to traditional or period design. Of these, probably the most important are: A greater variety of materials to choose from, tremendously better tools to work with, and— most important of all—a greater degree of understanding of the principles of art and design. In traditional design, appearance was the end. All Duncan Phyfe, Sheraton, Chippendale, or Colonial furniture had identical characteristics. If ladder-back chairs were the fad, every home had them, no matter how inappropriate they were in the different decoration schemes. In modern design, appearance is a result—not an end. Its evaluation is a problem to most people because the approach is entirely different. To understand period design, a study of classic principles is necessary; to understand and appreciate modern design, all that is needed is plain common sense. There are three easy ways to judge modern design. The first is by its form. Considered from the standpoint of use, form must be practical, comfortable, and efficient. Its lines, bulk, and proportions must be adequate for its particular function. The second way is by its material. Does it serve its utility? Do its surface, weight, and strength meet the demands that will be made of it? The third is by its construction. Is it balanced, durable, and secure? Is it economically efficient? Is its fabrication sound as to form and materials? Since the sole purpose of its creation isusefulness, and since form, material, and construction constitute the framework of usefulness, the test of everything you buy should be on these three points. Ask of every piece: Does it do, perfectly, what it is supposed to do? Is there anything about it that does not contribute to its usefulness? A chair, for instance, must fit the human figure. It must be strong, light and have a minimum of bulk. There are many materials from which such a form can be made; but as their flexibilities, weights, and textures vary, the perfect choice depends on the particular function the chair is to fill... Such as writing, dining, or lounging. If the materials are expertly put together in a strong, simple way, if the chair is comfortable, light, and steady, if the materials fill the requirements of strength and durability, then, it is a chair of perfect modern design. Its place in your home should ther be determined by the ability of its form, texture, and color to harmonize with its surroundings. Any piece of modern design will possess beauty to the degree that form, material, and construction serve usefulness. A composite of elements reach perfection of beauty, and this is possible only when design and function blend so perfectly that there is no dividing line. To be able to apply this reasoning to each part and object of your home would be to achieve lasting beauty. The function of ccilings is to close what would otherwise be an ugly opening. Walls are to support roofs and keep out the elements. Windows are to let in sunlight, 684 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Floors are to hold furniture and to walk on. Yet in most cases ceilings are too obtrusive, walls too oppressive, windows too small and heavily draped, and floors dark, gloomy, and too broken up. Most living rooms— particularly in older homes—are either too dark, crowded and cluttered, or too dismal, bare and uninteresting. Either type, if complete modernization is out of the question, could be made morte livable by a little effort and imagination. It is impossible to think that the average person is sufficiently well trained to judge thoroughly the materials, construction, and functions of all designs. Nor could the average person possess infallible taste in colors and textures. Some people can, however; those who cannot, have access to sufficient professional help in the well-equipped Home Furnishing centers. OR those who, through necessity or desire, wish to build or modernize their own homes and do all the work themselves, the following easy-to-follow suggestions are offered: Almost all kitchens and bathrooms are functional—partly because their purpose is thoroughly understood, and partly because very few furnishings are involved. The ones which are not functional can be traced to antiquated equipment, bad color, or poor lighting. As the problems of color and lighting will be discussed later, we will concern ourselves at present with the living and dining rooms only. These rooms should fit your own mode of living and eating, and these individual problems can be solved in the main by no one but you. Less drastic changes are possible in remodeling than in building, so the suggestions have been made sufficiently general and flexible to allow for both. It is hoped that the reader realizes there are exceptions to every tule. The better informed a person is, the greater are the possibilities to achieve good taste through any one of a million variations. These rules, if studied and followed, will result in the expression of good taste and individuality in your home. Floors Keep floors plain, simple, and unbroken. Small rugs catch the feet and eyes, breaking up floor areas into uninteresting and unbalanced spaces. If re-carpeting, do so from wall to wall. This is very important. Do not buy rugs or carpets smaller than the floor space if you want simplicity and beauty. Be sure your rugs and carpets have underpads for economy, and that they are a trifle smaller than the area covered. If dining rooms, living rooms, halls, or stairways open up into each other, completely cover all floor surfaces the same. If you are building your home, have the floors made of cement or inexpensive wood, and then carpet them completely. Hardwood floors are hard to keep up, not harmonious with médst rugs and too expensive. Not being functional, they are not beautiful. If vou are already using rugs and plan to leave them, paint the surrounding space to match the rugs or harmonize as closely as possible. Dark rugs show lint and footprints and have a gloomy and. Depressing effect. If you want a cheerful, sunny atmosphere in your home, avoid them. However, dark Tugs are at RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 685 times very desirable and effective for use in certain rooms, according to general impression created and color schemes used. Usually plain gray, beige, or natural shades are best. Self-patterned, self-textured, high pile, shaggy, hand-carved, or handtufted rugs always look best in any room. Avoid contrasting patterns of any type. The more neutral your floor coverings, the greater are your possibilities for different color schemes in your decorations. Walls Walls, to be functional, should be as neutral as possible. Remove all baseboards; they spoil the beauty of a room, catch dirt, and harbor insects. Remove all mouldings from walls. Avoid patterned wallpapers for they press in on you, and the corners give one the impression of being inside a box. If patterned paper is used, contrast one wall with a heavy, draped curtain, paint, or plain paper. This eliminates the box effect and gives the impression that the walls continue on indefinitely. Eliminate all door and window frames. If this is not possible, cut them down to narrow, plain frames. Cover all panelled doors with plylox or other veneered woods and paint. Paint all woodwork to match walls, or in very close harmony with them. If in doubt, remember that off-white is always right. Most woods are not only dull and unattractive but need continual refinishing at tremendous cost, over the years. The new modern, bleached woods are beautiful and attractive and recommended wherever wood is to be used. Otherwise, complete elimination of wood for walls and frames within the home is desirable. Windows Windows should be as large as possible. If building, the problem is simple, for with the use ot structural steel, windows can be as large as one whole wall. If remodeling, enlarge windows as much as possible in relation to outside and inside arcas. Treat double and triple windows as one where possible. Hand blinds are scarcely ever completely up; thicy keep out light and add ugly lines to a room. Replace them with Vencetian blinds. 'There are several prices, but if the cost is prohibitive, bamboo roll screens with draw draperies are smart and practical. If Venetian blinds are used, they should be the same color as the window frames, or if there are no window frames, then they should match the walls. Draperies are optional but not necessary. Draperies Draperies look best when they match or harmonize closely with wall or woodwork. Plain, dull fabrics are best. Small patterns, figures, or fine horizontal stripes are next best; if these patterns are in contrasting colors, the color should be carried out elsewhere in the room. For example, with bone-white woodwork, white and canary yellow wallpaper, and white ceiling, use canary yellow draperies with small rust horizontal line, one rust chair, gray rug, etc. Avoid crisscross draping of windows or gaudy patterns. Simplicity is always best. Pictures should be few and well spaced, with never more than two or three at the most to a room, unless they are placed by an expert. Discard cheap pictures of the Lone Wolf type; confine 686 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE family portraits to bedrooms or cedar chests and replace with prints of masterpieces. 'They can be purchased for as little as seventy-five cents and: up to three dollars, and are the next best things to original paintings. Frames should match the wall or woodwork as nearly as possible.. Ceilings Ceilings should be as unobtrusive as possible—either white or in faint pastel shades. Never bring ceiling paper down on the walls to make the ceiling look lower. This not only spoils the beauty of the walls, but attracts too much attention to the ceiling. Avoid wallpaper borders. Paper the walls flush to the ceiling and leave plain. Remove all paneling or other ceiling decorations and see that lighting. Fixtures are not too low, too high, or inefficient. If all these parts of your home are functional, doing what they are supposed to do perfectly, then it is a place of charm, graciousness and enduring beauty.