SA (siting Seacher Department MESSAGES TO THE HOME No. 4 Gifts "Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variableness, neither shadow of tuming." ?James 1:17. Gi may be classified as spiritual, intellectual or material, and "every man hath his proper gift from God" to cherish and enlarge upon. The apostle Peter says, "as every man hath received the gift so minister." From the Doctrine and Covenants, 46:11, we learn: "For all have not every gift given unto them; for there are many gifts, and to every man is given a gift by the Spirit of God." 'To one is given the word of wisdom, to another faith, to another the gift of healing, to others power to cultivate the virtues that make Christian character. Whatever one's gift, it becomes his responsibility to develop it fully and completely for the work of the Master and the advancement of self. The Savior taught this in the parable of The Talents (Matt. 25:14-30). "And he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents: behold, I have gained beside them five talents more. "His Lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of the Lord...." Then he which had received the one talent was afraid and hid it in the earth and his Lord said, "Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents. For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance; but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath." The Prophet Joseph Smith said, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 7/09 "Everything that God gives us ls lawful and right; and it is proper that we should enjoy His gifts and blessings whenever and wherever He is disposed to bestow... Blessings offered, but rejected, are no longer blessings, but become like the talent hid in the earth by the slothful servant; the proffered good returns to the giver; the blessing is bestowed on those who will receive and occupy; for unto him that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundantly, but unto him that hath not or will not receive, shall be taken away that which he hath, or might have had." Whether we are gifted as poet, artist, writer, reader, homemaker, teacher, leader or follower our ambition should not be to excel one another, but rather to develop our gift to the utmost, that we may better serve God and our fellowmen; then, will the gift be added upon. Discussion 1. List some spiritual gifts; intellectual; material. 2. How may each of these be improved upon? 3. What should be our objective in developing our gifts? 4. Analyze yourself. What do you consider your special gift? How may it be used for the advancement of the work of the Master?