The Life-Centered Approach to Religious Education By Dr. M. Lynn Bennion (Supervisor of Seminaries, Church Department of Education)
THE paramount concern of we who teach the Gospel is that our instruction be reflected positively in the lives and conduct of our students. We seek a definite correlation between our teaching and growth toward higher moral and spiritual levels of behavior. We cannot be contented with religious instruction resulting in the acquisition of information and knowledge but minus any improvement in character and conduct. We recognize, of course, the limitations of the Church or any other single agency as an influence in character development. The time devoted to the Church program by children and youth is an insignificant part of their total time; and, furthermore, highly potent forces affecting character are at work the rest of the time. Further, the character-forming process is so complex that we must, if we are to be effective, utilize for constructive purposes all the educational agencies. The school, the church, and the community should not only find their own particular distinctive functions in the light of the needs of youth, but they should seek in genuinely cooperative fashion to strengthen and support the great primary force for character development; namely, the home. The teaching of our Church auxiliaries and our seminaries and institutes, if properly done, should be reflected in the home, school, and leisure-time experiences of youth. A discussion on prayer in the classroom should culminate in the evaluation of present prayer practices and plans for their future improvement. A discussion on keeping the Sabbath Day holy should be counted unfruitful unless it eventuates in heightening and enriching the spiritual activities of the Sabbath Day. In other words, there must be the right combination of discussion and doing to be effective. Our task, therefore, is not limited to instruction in the Bible, theology, or the history of the Church. Students may score well on the content of these courses and still not be materially enriched in their lives. In fact, recent research has revealed a lack of correlation between religious teaching and conduct which should give every re-
658 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ligious educator cause for serious consideration.* Students, furthermore, often lack interest in our lessons simply because they see no relationship between them and their own ongoing lives. One test, therefore, for deciding the inclusion or exclusion of a given subject in the course of study must be its significance for living the religious life today. We must constantly seek ways and means of integrating teaching and living. To enlist the interests and purposes of youth we must center our lessons in the realities of life. We must also stimulate thinking about life's serious problems. Christ habitually provoked men to think for themselves, sometimes by calling on the questioner to answer his own question: "Who thinkest thou was neighbor to him that fell among the thieves?" Sometimes he put questions to his audience and invited their answer: "What think ye of Christ? Whose Son is He?" We must, furthermore, relate thinking to doing. In the words of the Scripture, our students, if they are to develop a living religion within themselves, must: "Be doers of the Word, and not hearers only." Our problem is not the lesson primarily but the student, the immortal spirit who must grow and develop from within through self-impelled activity. His total life and environment is our great concern—a life and living—both of which are dynamic. We must seek to guide growing persons toward great ideals and only by the "mustard seed plan" can healthy change occur. We must be content patiently to motivate students toward a consciousness of God as a reality in their lives and an appreciation of their personal relationship to Him as children. Religious education seeks to bring the achieving powers of man, his capacity to think, discover values, erect ends and form judgments, into cooperation with the spiritual resources of God. Man so energized has within him "the power of God unto salvation". This, then, is the life-centered, functional approach to religious education. Blessed is the teacher who can, through his insight, knowledge, and love, awaken and stimulate these divine forces in his students.
THE test of our teaching from this point of view is not what an individual has learned or the theories he has evolved for himself, but what he has become through
*Hartshorne and May, Studies in Deceit; Studies in Service and Self Control; Studies in the Organization of Character. For a brief report see, "A Summary of the Work of the Character Education Inquiry," Religious Education, September-October 1930. Thrasher, Frederic M., "The Boys' Club and Juvenile Delinquency," American Journal of Sociology, July, 1936 Hartshorne and Lotz, Case Studies of Present-day Religious Teaching; Hartshorne, Stearns, and Uphaus, Standards and Trends in Religious Education; Hartshorne and Ehrhart, Church Schools of Today; Hartshorne and Miller, Community Organization in Religious Education. Jones, Vernon, Character and Citizenship Training in the Public Schools. Shaw, Clifford R., Delinquency Areas; Shaw and McKay, Social Factors in Juvenile Delinquency. Published by the National Commission on Law Observance and Enforcement. Dimock, Hedley S., Rediscovering the Adolescent.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 659
the application of truth. The truly religious person is recognized less by what he believes than by the way he dedicates his life to fulfilling his beliefs. Only when we have found values that evoke our total capacity for devotion have we truly found our religion. To find such values calls for constant growth and reconstruction of life as higher and nobler insights are discovered and adopted. Great is the joy that comes when out of hard study and right living are evolved convictions which give life meaning and direction. The Apostle was undoubtedly speaking of this inward spiritual growth toward godhood when he said, "Eye hath not seen nor ear heard, neither hath entered into the heart of man the things which God hath prepared for those who love him." We live in an experimental age when people want to apply the pragmatic test to decide whether a thing is true and valid. Does it work? Christ invited that test. He said: "If any man will do my will he shall know of the doctrine whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself." Thousands have done His will and know of a surety that His doctrine is of God. Our great challenge as teachers is to motivate young people to want to make this test. If we can so control their environment and guide their experiences as to lead them in the way of the Savior, they will soon begin to feel and know the concomitant joy and satisfaction that accompany this way of life and thus be stimulated to go on and on toward better things. To help them profit by the disastrous effects of sin and to be guided and stimulated by those who have traveled the ways of righteousness and joy, we must guide them to the Bible and other great resources of spiritual direction. But why go to a book as ancient as the Bible to solve the problems of present-day living? Simply, because the Bible touches the heartstrings of life. It records faithfully the experiences of men and women in their search for happiness and in their strivings for God. These experiences touch the good and the evil; they reach from the depths of the most sordid crime to a glimpse of the eternal. The Bible is a great laboratory of life where the details of the experiments with life are not stinted or the results camouflaged. Neither have the experiments of men with lies, hypocrisy, cheating, stealing, adultery, murder, truth, goodness, mercy, kindness, forgiveness, prayer, and all the tendencies of humanity been so faithfully chronicled or so graphically portrayed as in the Bible. Out of those experiences truths of God stand forth in stark reality, signposts to all subsequent civilizations. Out of the strivings of these people to find and serve God has come, finally pieced together bit by bit, a picture so wholesome, so loving, so intimate, as to turn the hearts of men to their Father in understanding worship. It is an ancient saying: "Experience is a dear school, but fools will learn in no other." It would be utter foolishness to disregard the experiences of other men and women. The boy who would learn all his knowledge of mathematics from his own experience would perhaps get little further than the multiplication tables in a life-time. In all scien-
660 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
tific fields we accept the truth which past experiments have revealed, and we progress from there. The young man or woman who insists upon learning the sweetness of virtue and the bitterness of immorality through his or her own experience and who turns deaf ears to the experiences of the past has indeed entered a school of fools. It is the high privilege and responsibility of Church teachers to use the great moral and spiritual experiences of the race to stimulate youth to enter into wholesome spiritual experiences whereby they may sense the joy of fellowship with God without passing through the bitterness which inevitably accompanies the unaided search for happiness. In this function the Bible proves a veritable storehouse of experimentation. It is like the carefully written chemistry manual which aids the students to learn the laws of gases and chemicals without the bitterness of blinded eyes and acid-burned hands.
BY way of summary, then, teachers in all of the educational activities of the Church should repeatedly ask themselves the questions: What is my objective in teaching this particular lesson? What is it that I would have my pupils do, or do differently than before? What information and what activities will best contribute toward the change I wish to make? These questions must be answered before the materials for the lesson can be wisely selected or properly used. Those who have attempted to teach astronomy, botany, zoology, or the history of nations through the Bible have either found it greatly lacking in material or have left a warped or stunted picture in the minds of students. The Bible is not adequate material for such objectives, for it does not purport to teach the secrets of the heavens or the earth but the secrets of the human heart. It is not a history of mankind upon the earth or even a history of the Hebrew people, although it contains useful material for both. It is primarily concerned with individuals and those problems of individual conduct which are as old as the race and as new as the toddling child. Present-day teaching also centers in these eternal problems. For example, the primary objective in teaching the story of Joseph must be not to increase the student's knowledge of Egyptian history but to impress upon the youthful mind through vicarious experience the eternal truth that cheerfulness, purity of thought, and faith in God bring the only lasting happiness, and the person who possesses these qualities in rich abundance can never be kept down. The story must be used only as a means to prepare students to face the problems which Joseph in Egypt faced. Subject matter enters the teaching process not as an end in itself but as a means of furthering and enriching present individual and social life. The first and last concern of religious teaching is the growing life of the boy or the girl.