THE END
NOTES FROM THE FIELD By Julia A. F. Lund,
A GLANCE at the map of the world is sufficient to present a picture of the vast distances covered by Relief Society. The tie is a strong one, uniting women of many races widely scattered throughout different lands.
South African Mission
FROM Josephine H. Folland, Relief Society president of the South African Mission, comes a very interesting report. The sisters of this mission are, for the most part, expert in knitting and handwork, and, though many of them are at business during the day, they find time to make attractive articles for use in the bazaars. While the outlined lessons present some problems, they are using them to the best of their ability. Sister Folland writes: General Secretary "I cannot express fully how much I appreciate the wealth of material in the Relief Society Magazine. I had to travel a distance of 1300 miles and also to have a vital interest in Relief Society work to gain an appreciation of this wonderful organization and its splendid Magazine."
Brazilian Mission
THE accompanying picture was taken in Novo Hamburgo and shows the Relief Society members with their first quilt, all made by hand. They are justly proud of this quilt. There are six members of the Church and several friends in this Society, which was organized during the year 1938. Sister Bowers tells us that due to climatic conditions quilts are seldom used, and this, coupled with the high cost of materials, makes the project almost prohibitive. However, the sisters are anxious to cooperate in all that is suggested by the officers of the Organization. They are greatly interested in the work, and this naturally is a factor in increasing the membership. There are some very capable missionaries in Brazil. They cooperate with the Relief Society in the program which it is endeavoring to carry forward among a very deserving people. The lesson material is translated into German for the German-speaking sisters, and it is the plan to have the lessons translated into Portuguese as soon as possible. The Magazine is a great aid here in putting over the Relief Society message.
[Caption: Quilt Made by Novo Hamburgo Branch Relief Society Members, Brazilian Mission]
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 699
Norwegian Mission
FROM the pen of one of the Elders in this mission, we have a very delightful report of the work as it is progressing in Norway. The accompanying picture is of a party held during the past year with Mission President A. Richard Peterson in attendance. While the branches in this mission are small, the sisters are enthusiastic about Relief Society. In the branch at Salesund, Norway, there are fifteen members, with a fully organized presidency. Very fine meetings are held, which attract many friends as well as members. Brother Homer P. Johnson, the author of the letter, says, "We two Elders, Floyd A. Knight and I, enjoy the Relief Society meetings very much. I receive the Magazine from the Relief Society in my home ward and read each issue very thoroughly."
[Caption: Relief Society Social, Norwegian Mission]
700 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Argentine Mission
A LETTER from Corraine S. Williams, president of the Argentine Mission, presents a picture of the work of Relief Society in that mission. The lesson work as published in the Relief Society Magazine is quite generally used in the organizations in this country of the south. Through cooperation with the Mexican Mission, the lessons are translated into Spanish, which is the language in use in this part of the world. The lessons are very interesting to the sisters. Quoting directly from Sister Williams: "We thoroughly enjoy the Relief Society Magazine. Our Elders find that it is very helpful in many ways. We regret that our Saints are unable to enjoy it fully because they are unable to understand the language. However, we translate much of its contents for their use. The picture which accompanies this item is of the annual bazaar held March 17. Nine branch Relief Societies participated in this happy event. The motto seen above the display is 'La Caridad Nunca Falla' ('Charity Never Faileth'). Seen in the picture are Sister Williams, the president, Elder Oren E. Moffett, assistant mission supervisor, and a group of Relief Society branch officers. Due to its size, approximately half of the display is all that could be included in the picture. The total sales from the bazaar amounted to 434.20 Pesos Argentinos.
[Caption: Bazaar, Argentine Mission]
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 701
Palestine-Syrian Mission
FROM this very historic and interesting part of the world comes a delightful account of the Relief Society work. Sister Leone O. Jacobs, mission president, writes: "The work here is progressing. Of course, the limited number of members makes it impossible to carry on the activities as at home, but under the circumstances good work is being done. There has been an increase in attendance since the beginning of the year. The sisters are bright and eager to learn, and the lessons are enjoyed by all." Visiting teachers' work is carried on to a certain extent. Regular minutes and also complete records of other activities are now being carefully kept, so complete reports will now be available. As uniform a schedule of Relief Society meetings will be followed as climatic conditions will permit. The accompanying picture is of one of the Relief Society meetings here in Beirut. President Jacobs is present at the meetings whenever possible and translates and explains much of the work for the sisters.
[Caption: Beirut Branch Relief Society, Palestine-Syrian Mission]
OUR attention is called to another group of Relief Society organizations far removed from those we have considered.
Swedish Mission
SISTER VIRGINIA B. LARSON, president of the Relief Society of the Mission, writes: "It is a pleasure for us to report that the Relief Societies held outstanding sessions in connection with the recent district conferences. The Singing Mothers of the Mission were a delightful feature of the program. In connection with these meetings there were well organized handwork exhibitions, which showed the Swedish women's talent for creating colorful and artistic things. The sisters of the Mission greatly enjoy the Relief Society organization and wish to extend their greetings to the Presidency in Salt Lake City."
702 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Danish Mission
FROM Sister Gertrude R. Garff, we have a pleasant message from the Danish Mission. The sisters are interested in the lesson work and follow it through very much as it is printed in the Relief Society Magazine. Sister Garff says, "We use the lessons as they come from the office with a few minor changes." This is a well organized mission, and the sisters are enthusiastic about the Relief Society work.
Ella Jeremy Richards
THE passing of Sister Ella Jeremy Richards recalls the splendid service rendered by her as president of the Malad Stake Relief Society. Her accomplishments were many. Not only was she enthusiastic in carrying into effect the general program of the Society but rendered unusual service to the Lamanite sisters of the Washakie Ward. The General Board extend sympathy to the family of Sister Richards.
MY NEED