UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. On She Way So Persia (Continued from page 673) tains, surrounded by typical Persian formal gardens. 'Tea plantations in the vicinity gave the general landscape an attractive appearance. From here our journey started up toward the Elburz mountains. Heavy vegetation covered the northern slope, decreasing in density as we drove toward the south. This road up canyons and over the mountain is the most spectacular one I have ever seen. From below sea level it rises to nearly ten thousand feet, the summit being cut by a tunnel one and two-tenths miles in length. Thousands of men were working on the road, erecting heavy masonry retaining walls and bridges, as well as widening and improving the road. Besides the men on the roadway, there were many loaded donkeys which necessitated the constant use of the automobile horn. From the tunnel outlet came the descent to the plateau on the south. A fine stream of water ran down the canyon near the road, which reminded us of Provo River. As we left the mountains at dusk, caravans and groups of donkeys were wending their weary way toward Teheran, the capital city. The entire scene showed that we were really in the Orient, even though trucks and passenger cars whisked rapidly past these ancient ships of the desert. Real darkness had come before we reached our destination. The beckoning lights of the city gave a feeling of friendship on the part of this city that is to be our temporary home. OF SPECTAL INTEREST TO CONFERENCE Visitors Each Conference time we make it a point to offer visitors some outstanding values in L. D. S. Church Literature, as well as in General Books, Gifts and other merchandise from our complete stocks. AN EXTRA SPECIAL VALUE, WHILE THEY LAST An Introduction to the Study of the Book of Mormon By J. M. Sjodahl, Price a a Regular SOME NEW BOOKS FOR YOU... Life of Joseph F. Smith, By Joseph Fielding Smith...Pose A Voice From the Dust, By Genet Bingham Dee Latter-day Saint Hymns, By George D. Pyper New Edition, Gespel Doctrine BS oe Book of Mormon Geography, By J. A. Washburn. Comprehensive History, Roberts, 6 Volumes, Cash and Carry. O. Roeser CG Documentary History, 7 Volumes, Cash and Carry, If Mailed $1.00 Extra Regular Price We also have many other exceptional values which it will pay you to investigate. While at Conference, come in and see our choice selection of Personalized Christmas Cards. DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah A New and Practical Binding Development A Better Way to Keap. Your Currant. Magazines Here is a new and convenient way to keep your magazines as they come in, orderly and readily accessible. It consists of a durable, attractive cover, so devised that twelve issues of THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE can readily be placed therein, ready for convenient reading. This binder eliminates the confusion on your reading table which is apt to result when your various current magazines are left to lie about loose. We can supply covers for holding twe: ve current issues of any Church publication, (and other publications as well), at surprisingly low prices. Write for further information, or call at our office for a demonstration. THE DESERET NEWS PRESS 29 Richards Street Salt Lake City When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine NO SHADOW OF DOUBT IN HIS FUTURE... The Outcome of a Beneficial Income Life's race depends so much on getting off to a good start... Snsurance can be had at such a low cost no family should dare risk the uncertainty of the future without life insurance protection. Insurance on parents guarantees the education of children. Insurance on children teaches them thrift and promotes independence. "we. "You Bet ?. Im Going. On to College" BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY The RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE