—Beatrice Rordame Parsons HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon OCTOBER—Such sweet contentment does October bring With garnered fruits and golden grain— - Rich promise for grim winter's reign. THE renewal of the work of the women's clubs and organizations and the fall opening of the schools has started a rush for books from the libraries and book shops. Numerous new books on a variety of subjects as well as the old favorites are ready for the eager reader. MAY ROBSON, grand old lady of the films, has purchased lots in Culver City, near Hollywood, on which she has built fourteen houses of five rooms each and rented them to "only large growing families" at a nominal rental. A film studio adjoining the lots has tried vainly to buy them. ARLENE DAVIS, the only woman in the United States holding a license to fly transport planes over land and sea, with another redhaired aviatrix, Jacqueline Cochran, famed operator of cosmetic salons, entered the transcontinental speed dash of the national air races last month. ALICE MARBLE, queen of the world's tennis courts, won the Essex Bowl championship for the third time. Helen Wills Moody is the only other tennis star to retire an Essex Bowl in fifteen years of history. Incidentally, Miss Marble has ambitions to become a famous singer and has been taking lessons from John MacCormack. IVY J. ENSIGN of Utah, director of the Lund Chaminade Ladies Chorus, is very proud that her chorus won first place at the Golden Gate International Exposition Eisteddfod. The prize was $250. MABEL SWARTZ WITHOFT of Georgia, past national president of Service Star Legion, died last month. She was a poetess and the author of a number of books. Her poem Seeded Ground was published in numerous leading magazines. ANNE VINCENT of Tremonton, Utah, 99 last month, was said to have been the "liveliest member of the party" at a recent celebration. NAOMI LANE BABSON. Has written a Chinese family story called All The Tomorrows, and Vicki Baum, Shanghai 37, both good books claiming some of the laurels from Pearl Buck. GRACE M. CANDLAND of Provo has issued a choice booklet for the Christmas time containing three pioneer poems, Glorinda, Onward, and A Deserted Village. CLARISSA YOUNG SPENCER, daughter of Brigham Young, a talented, versatile and beautiful woman dearly beloved for her fine qualities of friendship died last summer.  
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - Manager - - - Assistant Manager - - - Belle S. Spafford Louise Y. Robison Amy Brown Lyman