European Mission Presidents' Conference N_ interesting and revealing A glimpse of the spirit with which Relief Society work is carried forward in the European Missions, as well as the splendid leadership found there, comes to us in a letter from Sister Zina Y. C. Brown, President of the Relief Societies of the British Mission, in her report of the Mission Presidents' Conference, held recently in Lucerne, Switzerland. President and Sister Thomas McKay were the gracious hosts. Mission Presidents and their wives from all of the European Missions assembled in this picturesque location. Morning, afternoon, and evening sessions, characterized by genuine religious fervor, were held. Inspiring addresses, special instructions and reports were given. In addition to the Conference sessions, an afternoon spent on Lake Lucerne, a two-hour trip to Wagner's home, which is now an interesting museum containing one of his pianos, some original compositions and family portraits, a trip by cog-wheel train up the Alps where they gathered Alpine flowers and viewed the lofty peaks in all their glistening splendor, furnished delightful entertainment. Quoting from Sister Brown's letter: "Best of all, we felt close to our Creator and were stirred by emotions and thoughts that are difficult to voice but which put one in harmony with God's great plan for us, His children. The close and lasting friendships formed with our fellow workers in this part of the Lord's vineyard are so precious! I, for one, cannot be grateful enough for these experiences." Elder Joseph Fielding Smith and his wife were in attendance at the Conference. The wise counsel and blessing of Elder Smith, together with the beautiful singing of Sister Smith, brought joy to all assembled. Each Relief Society president reported her mission, bringing to the Conference her vision and also her own "brand" of enthusiasm. Each brought to the Conference something beyond price, and everyone present found her own personal store of blessings added to. THE quality of leadership and the outstanding accomplishments found among the Relief Society Presidents of the European Mission is revealed in comments made by Sister Brown: "Sister Toronto has borne two children since coming to the Czech Mission, the youngest arriving during the dark days of that land. When she arose to speak, she strove to hide the depth of her emotion. Her intense, almost passionate, loyalty to the Saints there could not be hidden. I have never been privileged to know a Latter-day Saint couple more unswerving in the discharge of appoint- Ida D. Rees, Norma S. Evans, Zina C. Brown, Margaret M. Peterson, Evelyn Wood, Jessie E. Smith, Claire T. Murdock, Virginia B. Larson, Martha S. Toronto, Gertrude R. Garff, ed responsibility than the Torontos. They have gone through so much and yet refuse to acknowledge that they have done anything unusual. Sister Toronto speaks the Czech language ably. Besides her other accomplishments in that mission, she has left the Relief Society there a fine handbook in their native tongue. "Sister Rees (East German) has worked untiringly. One of her innovations was the training of the elders in Relief Society work. When she was unable to contact the sisters in their meetings, Sister Rees sent the elders to make the visits and bring back reports. She and President Rees have labored under constant awn B. McKay strain and have been blessed with great wisdom. "The dear faithful Petersons (Norwegian), solid and dependable as the 'Rock of Gibralter'! Their reports showed a marked improvement of conditions in general. Sister Peterson has worked hard for all the auxiliaries and has brought about excellent cooperation in their work. The Relief Society will lose a noble leader when she returns home this summer. She radiates sunshine, her big heart and sense of humor endearing her to all. "The Evans (French) are another splendid family. We miss Brother and Sister Ursenbach. Sister Ursenbach had the love of all the Saints 668 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and the missionaries. It seems as if her mantle has fallen upon Sister Evans, for the fame of her sweetness and hospitality has already gone abroad. The Evanses are capable mission parents and are delving into every phase of that mission's needs. They are establishing a fine mission home in Paris. They have occupied it about three months but are still hard at work creating a home of elegance and refinement-—and on the smallest sum of money imaginable. The atmosphere is entirely French. The exquisite, crystal lighting fixtures, needle-point coverings for the drawing room, furniture, carpets and tugs are all 'finds' hunted out by Sister Evans and secured at auction. The furnishing of that house would make a story as interesting as fiction. The marble stairway leads onto a little balcony where one can look down into the beautiful drawing-room. All the other rooms show the same harmony in the selection of furniture and hangings as does the livingroom. Two lovely daughters add to the charm of the home. They are as practical as they are charming, too. They and their brother have played a big part in working the magic of that house. "Sister Murdock of the Netherlands Mission is accomplishing a great deal. Her big contribution this year is a hymn book translated into the Dutch language. She worked eighteen months preparing it, proof reading the music and words three times before sending it to press. Making the selection of hymns was a tedious part of this project. It took ingenuity to ascertain the favorite songs of the people. Another basis for her choice was suitability and beauty of the song itself. The Murdocks have translated The Way to Perfection and have also published a very fine yearbook. Sister Larson (Swedish) has done outstanding work with her chorus. She has organized, trained and directed choruses which have sung before important audiences. She and President Larson have given intelligent and abundant service. Their mission term, now ending, will ever be a record period for that mission. "Sister Gertrude Ryberg Garff (Danish), another of our young matrons, brings to her position all the poise and understanding of one twice her years, coupled with the energy of youth. She is literally building the people body and soul. She has prepared a four-page diet guide for the missionaries. This has been mimeographed and prepared to fit the missionaries' loose-leaf book. With her expert knowledge of foods, this should prove to be a priceless help. We shall adopt it in the British Mission. She is also giving food demonstrations to the women, who are enthusiastic about it. This naturally brings her into close contact with the women, and she has gained their confidence and love. "Sweet, brilliant Sister Wood holds one spellbound relating the things being accomplished in the West German Mission. Listening to her makes one feel as if he were emerging into pleasant meadows. She has dramatized many _ beautiful truths. Her story illustrating the beauty of purity of life, which she demonstrated with a fluff of white cotton and the perfect rose, is one of her methods of teaching a message. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 669 For one conference she wrote a play about a branch family, demonstrating the power of cooperation. Each of us thrilled to her gifts and felt proud of her and her accomplishments. The faith and works of the Woods is bringing results. "The welding of parts of missions into one big mission has been no 'easy task. Our beloved Sister Kelly would be very grateful to see her dreams coming true for those Saints. It is a great wrench when the various missions change leaders and our old friends return to Zion; but God raises up someone else, and the work goes forward. "Sister McKay, so genuine and truly fine, was the perfect hostess. One feels the refining and cultural influence of her presence, and recognizes her to be an ideal Latter-day Saint wife and mother. Her appreciation of the beautiful was reflected in the places she planned for us to see. One instinctively drew near to catch her understanding observations. Sister McKay has prepared a book outlining European travel that is filling a long-felt need. It is a perfect guide for returning missionaries and will facilitate matters greatly for both missionary and mission president. All of the most noted places are listed, prices of hotels and pensions given; there is even a wellmarked map within its pages. Sister McKay was assisted in this by her daughter Barbara. "WE are delighted with the present lesson set-up for the coming season's work. We have joined the ranks of the Magazine users. We are thankful to announce that we no longer have to print a lesson manual. The 1939-40 lessons have already been enthusiastically welcomed by the district supervisors to whom they were previewed at our Mission Conference by members of our Mission Relief Society Board. "Wonderful work is being done by all of the wives of the mission presidents. They are all concerned for the missionaries' welfare and are doing all in their power to strengthen both the character and _testimony of each one, that he may be trained for the ministry and for life itself. These women are meeting the challenge of their positions in a manner that leaves no room for criticism. "There is a spirit of unity and cooperation among all the mission heads. Our hearts are filled with grattude for the many blessings that are an accompaniment of this calling. SILENCE Christ sought the mountain's solitude And there His touch with God renewed. So I to meet each daily care Refresh my strength in silent prayer.