—Mabel Jones. On The Way To Persia By Estelle S. Harris THE desire to go places seems to be almost universal. Knowing that only a few of the readers of this magazine will be able to go to far-off Persia in person, I am sending a few notes to help them make this interesting journey in imagination. From western America, Persia, or Iran as it is now officially known, is almost half way around the world and so situated in relation to travel routes that it is considered the most remote post to which our diplomatic representatives are sent. From the Bible and Ancient History we have read about the Medes and Persians; we know about Cyrus the Great and Darius. More recently, we have heard of Persian gardens and rugs, of dates and melons, but almost everything about this land has always seemed remote and uncertain. My husband* having been given a commission to serve as advisor to the government of Iran, we left Provo, Utah, on the evening of July 15, 1939, to journey to Teheran, the capital city. I can assure you it was not without conflicting emotions that we bade farewell to our family and friends, although keenly appreciative of the opportunity to visit this unknown land. At New York we took our second look at the World's Fair, which is a picture of the World of Tomorrow; we found it vastly different from the world we are seeing today. The S. S. Deutschland gave us a very pleasant crossing of the Atlantic. President Franklin S. Harris, Brigham Young University. Many interesting persons from all parts of the world were met, most of them being German-speaking. France was the first land seen; its green fields and red roofs were welcome after seven days of the deep blue of the ocean. The Deutschland did not go into the port at Cherbourg, but the passengers and luggage were taken aboard a tender. We also made a stop at Southampton where there was an exchange of passengers. The trip through the English Channel was delightful, with occasional glimpses of land on either side. The feeling of "aloneness'' disappeared as we saw the many ships of all types; especially pleasing were the small sailing boats with their sails full of wind. Some fog was encountered in the North Sea, but the morning we landed at Cuxhaven, Germany, at the mouth of the Elbe River, the sun shone in all its glory. After the usual customs formalities, we boarded a train for Hamburg and from there to Berlin. After completing our business with the Iran Legation and buying tickets from the S. S. S. R. Intourist office for Persia, we called at the mission headquarters where we met Apostle and Sister Joseph Fielding Smith and President and Sister A. C. Rees. We enjoyed a visit and luncheon with them and the missionaries who had come for a special meeting with Elder Smith. Sunday morning we were present at a large gathering of the Saints and felt their sincerity and devotion to the Cause. Three days in Berlin gave us an RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 671 opportunity to see the improvements which had been made since our last visit there several years ago. Some of these were: The stadium where the Olympics were held, the immense recreational field, the splendid new paved highway, and many new buildings. We left Berlin Tuesday morning, Dean Gerrit de Jong being at the station to see us off. I HAD not previously been east of Berlin, so it was with great interest that I watched this new territory. When we reached Poland, especially from Posen to Warsaw, we found a level country rich agriculturally. At Posen two Poles shared the same compartment with us and speaking German they were able to converse with my husband. One of them was born in the part that belonged to Germany before the war, so naturally he spoke German. They gave us a good idea of conditions and how the people felt. It was night when we reached Warsaw. We had several hours to wait for our train, so we walked around the main streets until we saw a sign, "Ice cream soda". The name had magic in it; we sat down at a table on the sidewalk watching the people go by as we slowly consumed our soda. As we passed several confectioners' windows, I noticed sunflower seeds side by side with candy and nuts. I learned they are quite a delicacy in Poland and Russia when roasted. They taste somewhat like our pine nuts. As you know, at the border of each country one has to go to the customs office and have all luggage opened and examined and money declared. At the last station in Poland I had the experience of being led by a woman attendant into another room and searched. This was a decidedly novel experience for me. We passed into Russia at Schepetowka. After the usual and rather rigorous customs examinations, we boarded the Russian train which was to be our home for three days and nights. It was made up of more than a dozen cars including one Wagons-Lits with four first-class and six second-class compartments. All the other cars were "hard," which means their seats were plain boards. Most of the seats could be made double deckers, which had the appearance of shelves, facing each other, with the same type along the aisle. These benches were crowded with peasants —men, women and children. They ate and slept on these hard boards; some had meager bedding or slept on a coat or other wearing apparel. All seemed fond of watermelon, the remains of which did not reduce the condition of general confusion. We had to pass through five such cars to reach the diner three times a day. In doing so we would frequently bump against a protruding bare foot or knock the sheet off some fat man who seemed to be sleeping practically naked. The odor in these cars did not increase our appetites. Russian diners are decidedly limited in menus and attractiveness. We had sliced tomatoes and cucumbers, both unpeeled, for every meal. A dressing composed mainly of vinegar was put over them. At breakfast we were served the ones left from the night before. There was an abundance of bread and potatoes with some kind of meat once a day and eggs twice a day. The 672 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE dessert was stewed prunes or apples. The Russians are fond of "chi," their weak tea, which they drink very hot and often. It was interesting to watch the people hurry off the train as it stopped at the station to get some hot water for "chi". At most of the stops there were small houses with tanks of boiling water, which was available to the passengers. From what we could see of Russia, its people seemed very serious and almost stolid. Laughter was rare. Only once did I hear a group of girls laugh outright. They seemed to be amused at my hat, which doubtless was a bit queer to them. Few wear hats; most women wear a kerchief around their heads or go bareheaded. I could not help being sad at seeing the lack of good clothes in Russia. Everyone seemed to wear any old thing, and one had the feeling that a number of attics had been raided for old clothes of a previous generation. The absence of fine silk hose for women was especially noticeable. My chiffon hose were under constant scrutiny. Even the porter who cared for our compartment pointed to my stockings and then to himself saying, "Madam". I presumed he wanted my hose for his wife. As we went through the country, we saw women doing all sorts of work. Some were repairing the track, others moving heavy rocks or doing the farm work. Women work in offices and as street car conductors. It is said Stalin selects a woman engineer when he travels. I saw one woman carrying a baby straddled across her back and hips, holding it with her hands and supporting a heavy load on her head. Another woman was carrying a baby in her arms and balancing a loaded basket on her head. This took fine coordination of muscles. Our last place in Russia was Baku, an important oil city on the Caspian Sea. Oil from here is piped to Batum on the Black Sea from which place it is sent all over the world. The city itself is old and has a decidedly mixed population. It is built on hillsides over the bay. There remains some of the old wall which once surrounded the city and many of the old huts. Our guide passed lightly over these to tell us of the unprecedented growth of schools, public buildings. And parks of culture and recreation that have been built by the Soviet regime. We left Baku by boat about nine o'clock in the evening after again passing the customs formalities. As we passed out of the harbor, the lights of the city were even more impressive than the buildings had been by day. As these became dim, our attention was turned to a full moon rising out of a calm sea. It was closely accompanied by Jupiter, while red Mars dominated the southern sky. Here we were leaving a European shore to land the next day at a port in Asia. It seemed appropriate, therefore, that the sky should have a sort of Oriental touch. The combination of sea and sky and the strange mixture of Slav, Tartar and Aryan passenger groups so enthralled us as we sat on deck during the warm evening that we were not sorry the serving of the evening meal was delayed till past eleven o'clock. Early the next afternoon we arrived at Pahlevi, Iran. At last we were in Persia, the land which had ; RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 673 been reaching out to us for three weeks. It seemed so very strange, and we had difficulty in thinking of it as a home even for the limited time we planned to remain. From the first, however, it was hospitable. Several hours were required to attend to port regulations. We then had to get luncheon and hire an automobile to take us to Teheran. We drove through a delightful tropical country for several hours, stopping for the night at Ramsar. The beautiful new hotel here was built by the Shah. Our first introduction to Persian rugs had a splendid setting on these immense floors and halls. This hotel is spectacularly located on a hillside overlooking the Caspian Sea. Many wide steps lead up from the road and lovely formal gardens cover the terraced slopes. The flowers were familiar ones—petunias, golden glow, geraniums, salvia, canna and roses—nearly all the flowers we have at home. This first night in Iran was spent in a type of splendor that combined the age-old art of Persia with the modern conveniences of an up-to-date hotel. The next morning our progress toward Teheran was delayed by the fact that a portion of the road was closed because the Shah was passing over it. We did not mind the wait, however, as it enabled us to have luncheon and stay at another of the Shah's modern hotels at Tschalouse. While the location of this hotel was not so imposing as that at Ramsar, it was, nevertheless, in a beautiful location at the foot of the moun- (Continued on page 728)