Vol. XXVI OCTOBER, 1939 No. 10
EDITORIAL
Judging Values
THE great difficulty with humankind is that it knows so poorly how to pursue its own best interests. People generally are genuinely anxious to better their own conditions, but all to often strive to do so through satisfying their immediate selfish desires. This isn't a thing for which we should be too severely criticised, for after all, we are still but children; the fine qualities of God-like judgment are in us as yet undeveloped. We use money as a standard of value. Yet, to one unschooled in the use of money as a standard of value, something of far less intrinsic worth, fulfilling a desire resulting from past experience, would be valued more highly. A small child allowed the choice between an ice cream cone and a ten dollar bill would not hesitate in choosing the ice cream cone. We who are more sophisticated, counting ourselves mature in our judgments, smile indulgently at such a choice. But we may well look to ourselves and see if we, like the child, are not seeking present gain rather than future good. Given a choice between such things as worldly pleasure, association which brings excitement, power, or material gain on the one hand and on the other the opportunity for service in the kingdom of God, which brings incitement to do good and results in development of spiritual strength enabling us to achieve eternal life, we too frequently show the immature judgment of a child and like him choose the thing of lesser value which satisfies our immediate selfish desire?we choose the ice cream cone. The Lord recognized this tendency in man when He said: "Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye are little children, and ye have not as yet understood how great blessings the Father hath in his own hands and prepared for you."
692 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Muddling Through"
WOULD you have stoned the prophets? A ridiculous question to ask, perhaps, because the Latter-day Saints believe in revelation and look back upon the holy men of God as prophets and instruments in the Lord's hands to guide His chosen people. Joseph Smith and those who have succeeded him in the Presidency of our Church are instruments in the Lord's hands to guide us, His chosen people, of the latter days. What do you think of their revelations? Do you pay your tithing? Do you keep the Word of Wisdom? Do you prepare your children for baptism? Do you keep the Sabbath day holy? Do you have family prayers? Do you love the Lord with all your heart, mind, might and strength? Do you love your neighbor as yourself? There are many members of record in our Church who are figuratively stoning the prophets, both old and new, with indifference and disobedience. Are you one of them? There are too many of our people just "muddling through". They have a passive love for the Church and the heritage the Pioneers have left for us but are a bit lax when it comes to paying tithing, living the Word of Wisdom, observing the Sabbath day, and generally are a bit indefinite about placing themselves on the Lord's side. There is no doubt in the minds and hearts of thousands of us but that we have had and do have prophets in these last days, and we know them and respect them for what they are. Referring to these last days the Lord revealed through Joseph Smith: "And all things shall be in commotion; and surely, men's hearts shall fail them; for fear shall come upon all people;" and further, "I have sworn in my wrath and decreed wars upon the face of the earth and the wicked shall slay the wicked, and fear shall come upon every man. And the Saints also shall hardly escape." It is not only death we wish to escape; it is a death of wickedness which we all desire to avoid. Paul said near the close of his life: "For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith: Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day: and not me alone but unto all them also that love his appearing." Paul had a full portion of the sustaining influence of the Gospel within him, and death held no horrors. If we wish to have peace in our hearts and minds in these troublesome times, we must honor the prophets and serve the Lord. If we want to be ready to die as Paul was ready, we must fight a good fight, finish the course, and keep the faith. "Muddling through" will bring nothing but disappointment, heartaches and regrets.