Membership Drive Attention Top-Notchers By Rae B. Barker
DECEMBER 15 of this year (1939) will find us midway in our four-year Membership Drive. Some stakes and wards are traveling in high gear. The rest must earnestly try to "step up" their efforts if half the desired increase is to be accomplished with the passing of half the time. Interesting accounts of the best things done in the interest of the Membership Drive by stakes and wards who have shown unusual initiative, originality and consistency is of great benefit to others. To stimulate interest and activity in membership, the General Board is offering not awards but RECOGNITION for superior achievement in the following directions: Relief Society grows because it offers practical opportunity for individual growth to its members. Ward units gather new strength through the ability and talent of new members. In membership increase it is, in some instances, necessary to overcome definite obstacles or handicaps, such as transportation, care of little children, conflicts with other social or study groups. Besides the steady, consistent week to week work of coordinators, committees and individual members, there is a place in every campaign for high-grade publicity or showmanship features.
THESE four things will be the basis of four articles to be published in the Relief Society Magazine in recognition of exceptional accomplishment. The articles will be submitted to the General Office through the stakes and will deal with the following:
1. Benefits derived by a new member in Relief Society. To be submitted by a new member. Title, "Treasures I Have Found."
2. Outstanding contribution by a new member to her organization. Not to be written by a new member. Select own title.
3. Most effective showmanship work by a ward group.
4. Handicaps solved by an organization.
Regulations:
1. Articles will be limited to 800 words.
2. Sifting of articles must be done in the stakes. Not more than one article to be sent from each stake on each subject.
3. Four articles will be selected from those submitted to the General Office and published either in the March or April issues of the Magazine.
4. All entries must be in the Editor's office by January 31, 1940.
5. Address entries to Membership Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah.
6. Articles will not be returned unless accompanied by postage.
Appropriate recognition at General Relief Society Conference will also be given coordinators attaining the highest percentage of membership increase.