Family Life Family Relationships Lesson 4
The Place of the Father in the Home
IN our discussions of family relationships the place of the father in the home is worthy of special consideration because of several reasons, only two of which we shall mention at this time. First: In considering the changes that have come about in the family during the last century, we are prone to place great emphasis on the fact that the father no longer occupies the position of domination which he held in earlier periods; thus, obviously, his power of authority has declined even though he continues to represent the final authority in family life today. This is most significant when we recall that until the beginning of the present century the exercise of authority was one of the two most important functions accepted by our culture in defining the role of the father. The other function was that of providing for the economic needs of the family. As we minimize the exercise of authority by the father, we tend to emphasize his role as provider even at the expense of the many additional family functions that can be effectively performed only by him, Due to this shifting of the relative importance of these two primary functions, many fathers are in a state of more or less bewilderment as to just what is expected of them. One father said recently that if he provided the members of his family with sufficient money to maintain a comfortable standard of living, if he directed the education of his older children and handled the problems of discipline that were too difficult for his wife to handle, he thought he was doing all that any father should be expected to do. Such a definition of the role of the father ignores completely his function in maintaining intimate contacts and establishing companionship among family members, and it does not conform to our present concept of the successful father's role. Second: The decrease in the num-
720 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
ber of hours per day and in the number of days per week that the father spends at his job allows him additional time for participation in family activities. If he does not appreciate the importance of his place in the home, he probably will engage in other activities that will demand all of his leisure time. Elmer says: "In the early years of the present century, the long hours, the full six and often seven-day week, practically eliminated the father from family activities and from close contact with his children. The shorter day and the shorter week have given the father a greater amount of leisure than any generation of fathers in America have ever known. When he lacked leisure, the attitude of aloofness from his children was developed. Details of childhood association were delegated to the mother, to employees, and to outside agencies. With the increase of leisure for the father, he is at a loss to know what to do. He lacks the technique, as well as the emotional habits, of becoming once more an intimate member of the face to face group. It is, of course, a temporary and transitional situation, which when once recognized will mean 'the return of the father to the household'. His active participation will tend to eliminate many of the problems of social maladjustment now so apparent in young people." We spend our time just as we spend money?the more we have the more we spend, because the luxuries
*Elmer, Manuel Conrade, Family Adjustment and Social Change. New York: Ray Long & Richard R. Smith Inc., 1932, p. 286.
of yesterday become the needs of today. Hence, only through carefully planning the use of our time and our money are we able to use them wisely. If the father does not value the need and the importance of his participation in family life, he will, undoubtedly, spend his leisure time in other activities upon which he does place a high value. We do not wish to imply that the father can or should spend all of the time that he is not at his work with his family. This would be impossible; because, if he is a worthy member of the church, he will devote a part of his time to service for his church; if he is a citizen, in the true sense of the word, he will be expected to devote some time to community interests. We shall not attempt to mention all of the activities that may make demands on his time, for there are many, indeed, and these demands increase as life becomes more complex. With life as complicated as it has grown to be, it seems desirable that each person consider it his duty to set up for himself a standard of values in regard to activities, and that he apportion his time and energy according to his determined values. On such a scale of life's activity-values, should we not place family functions at the high point? The question is often asked: How much time should a father reserve for family association? One authority suggests ten per cent of each twenty-four hour period. However, we feel that we cannot be so specific as to suggest the number of hours thus spent; it is a problem for each father to determine for himself, according to his own particular situa- RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 721 tion. The important point is to get every father to reserve a sufficient portion of his time for family activities so that he will be a participating member of the group in all aspects of family living. His own appreciation of his importance will be enhanced in proportion to the amount of time he spends with his family and by the nature of his participation in family activities. A CASUAL survey of some twenty fathers revealed the fact that fifty per cent of them were firm in their belief that their family enjoyed more freedom and were under less strain when they were away from home. One father said, '""The minute I step into the house, I detect a strain and a forced reserve on the part of every member of the household. I fee] that all are on their good behavior just because I am present. I am treated with the greatest of respect and consideration, but sometimes I doubt if they have much real love for me." A somewhat close observation of the practices of this family group tevealed the following: The mother had instilled within the children fear of their father by threatening to tell him about any misdemeanor of which the children may have been guilty during his absence, never forgetting to add, "and you know what your father will do". Another practice was for the mother to gain obedience and cooperation from the children by promising to keep certain knowledge concerning their "bad" behavior from their father, or to indulge the children in extravagances to which the father undoubtedly would object had he known of such expenditures. Sunday was the only time when the father was expected to be at home, and the children had been trained to think that every Sunday was "Father's Day". This was the one day of the week when they were expected to exercise an undue amount of self-discipline, restraint, and extreme quietness, because "after all, Sunday was the only day Father was at home". The children looked upon the walk to and from Sunday School with their father as a duty rather than a pleasure; respectful answers to questions constituted the conversation that was carried on between father and children, and _ each thought he was behaving according to the wishes of the other. The children actually had the attitude that this self-restraint in the presence of their father was the sacrifice he expected of them in return for what he gave them. The father acknowledged that frequently he might have spent more time at home, but he thought that his unexpected presence would not be entirely welcome to the children. He knew that if his eighteen-yearold daughter, Elizabeth, was entertaining some of her friends in the living room, there would be no place for him to go except to his bedroom; the younger children would be there with their mother, and he would feel as if he were an intruder, interrupting their play and laughter. He often wondered why a father should be kept so far outside of the lives of his children. Husband, wife and children were all greatly dissatisfied with the family situation but did not realize what the difficulty was until these practices, and some others, were called 722 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to their attention. Within a year, through the conscious and determined effort of the parents to modify their own attitudes and behavior and to re-educate the children, changing their attitudes with regard to the place of the father in the home, the family experienced no less than a revolutionary change in their relationships?and needless to say, a much happier situation exists. At the present time there is voluntary cooperation on the part of each member of this family in practicing great economy so that sufficient money may be saved to reconstruct the front porch, making it into a cozy den; then, there will always be a place for Father, as well as other members of the family, even if Elizabeth or some one else is entertaining guests. We think it is not too dogmatic to say that children who are reared by members of one sex only are not adequately prepared to live successfully in a world of people composed of members of both sexes. Other things being equal, every child who is denied the companionship of either parent suffers a severe handicap in his development. Such a handicap can only be partially overcome by even the most efficient agency outside the home. Dr. LEONARD S. COTTRELL, JR., who is one of our most outstanding authorities on family living, made the following statement when asked recently for his opinion concerning the place of the father in the home: "We are inclined to think of the place of the father in the family primarily as that of breadwinner (provider) and as final authority and 'head of the household'. We are sometimes prone to overlook less obvious, but no less important, functions. Fathers themselves are likely to minimize some of their functions in the family, which I wish to mention: "Leaving aside his important social psychological role as a husband to his wife, I wish to suggest his profound importance in the emotional development of his children. "With respect to his daughter, the father's attitude and behavior toward her and his relationship with her will determine in a fundamental way her attitude toward her feminine role and her basic pattern of relations with men and with the man she finally marries. 'This complex process calls for the greatest skill and insight fathers can muster. "With respect to his son, the father furnishes a model which will be taken over to some extent by the son, whether or not the son wishes to or is conscious of it. 'There is a deep need for the son to receive affection from the father. Moreover, the pattern of relationship the father demonstrates in his marriage | will determine in large measure and in many ways the relations the son will later establish with his own wife and children. "Another important result of the father's behavior is the child's basic attitudes toward authority.