The tempo is indicated by the speed of the beat and
(Continued on page 727)
LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony Lesson 4
Saul the Pharisee and Persecutor
HELPFUL REFERENCES
F. W. Farrar, The Life and Work of St. Paul, chs. II, III, IV, VIII, IX. A. T. Robertson, Epochs in the Life of Paul, pp. 1-38. B. W. Robinson, The Life of Paul, (1918), pp. 25-42. J. Paterson Smyth, The Story of St. Paul's Life and Letters, pp. 1-27. F. A. Spencer, Beyond Damascus, chs. I-III, VII, IX, X.
PAUL'S FAMILY AND ANCESTRY.?Saul was a prince among men. He will be remembered as long as the earth lasts. For that reason it is fitting to inquire about his family and genealogy. He was a Jew who was only too glad to boast descent from Abraham (2 Cor. 11:22). In his letter to the Philippians (3:5) he emphasizes the fact that he was "of the race of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews". In his early zeal there can be little doubt that he was much concerned about family trees. His later reference to "endless genealogies" (1 Tim. 1:4) is probably an allusion to some practices not unknown in his own family. Pride of race and family was common among the Jews of his class. It is extremely unfortunate that we know so little about Saul's family. We do not even know the names of his father and mother. However, we are told that he was not only a Pharisee himself, but the son of a Pharisee (Acts 23:6). His father was, furthermore, a Roman citizen. This fact is an important one, for Saul was therefore a Roman by birth (Acts 22:28). The fact that he was a Roman aided him immensely in carrying the Gospel to various parts of the Roman Empire. Rome made the world respect her citizens. Saul was born in Tarsus, one of the great Greek cities in the Roman Empire. Sir W. A. Ramsay has definitely shown that it was possible for Jews to become Roman citizens in a city like Tarsus by being enrolled in "a Tribe set apart for them, in which they could control the religious rites and identify them with the service of the synagogue". It was not necessary, therefore, that such Roman Jews take part in idolatrous sacrifices to pagan gods and other hated ceremonies inimical to their religious interests. It is quite probable that Saul's father was an influential man in his community and an individual of considerable means. He probably financed his son's schooling in Jerusalem. Every Jewish boy learned a trade, and Saul was probably taught to be a tent-maker by his father. Even in his later life as an apostle, Saul made good use of his trade so that he should not be too dependent upon anyone for his living. In relation to Saul's mother, the late Dr. A. T. Robertson wrote: "The mother... Must have been a woman of force to have reared such
706 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
a son. We catch a faint glimpse of her also when Paul says: 'I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers' (2 Tim. 1:3). She is in that pious line. That is the noblest heritage of all. In the mention of Timothy's mother, Eunice, and grandmother, Lois (1:5), it is not difficult to catch the reflection of Saul's own fireside. When Paul reminds Timothy of whom he had learned the Holy Scriptures even from a babe (3:14f), he was echoing his own experience in the home in Tarsus. This Jewish matron must not be overlooked when we study the influences that moulded Saul. She made the home where he grew and whose stamp he always bore." We do not know how many sisters Saul had, but we do know he had one. When he was in dire straits in the city of Jerusalem as an apostle, and in danger of being killed, we are told that "Paul's sister's son, hearing of their (the enemy) lying in wait, he went and entered into the castle, and told Paul". (Acts 23: 16) As Professor Robertson reminds us, a later story calls Saul's sister, Rachel. If there were other sisters, and even brothers, history has left us no record.
SAUL AS STUDENT AND PHARISEE.?As a boy Saul was probably brought up in the strict fashion of the Pharisees. His father would be well schooled in the Law. Israel's great advantage over the rest of the world was thought to consist of her possession of the Scriptures and the rabbinical commentaries upon them. According to strict Pharisaical views it was necessary to know in detail the revelation of God as contained in Scripture. Therein lay salvation. It was thought just as bad to violate a minor religious statute as to commit a grave sin, because the whole Law was revealed by God. The Pharisees found it necessary to have a complete and careful explanation of every minor requirement of the Law in order to avoid sins of ignorance. Every single injunction of the 613 parts of the Mosaic code in addition to the oral prescriptions of the rabbis had to be observed. There were over 1500 listed things which a Pharisee might not do on the Sabbath day. The freedom of our day makes it hard for us to believe that the ancient Pharisees could be so strict. A splendid description of the life of a Pharisee is contained in the second chapter of Professor F. A. Spencer's recent book, Beyond Damascus. Notwithstanding the strict nature of Saul's early training, we cannot help but believe that the city of Tarsus with its Greek background left also a deep mark upon him. The Greeks had a marvelous culture. Their literature, art, architecture, games, philosophy and science have left a wonderful impress upon our Western civilization and cannot have failed to attract the intelligent and receptive young Saul. Note his comment in 1 Cor. 9:24-27: "Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize? So run, that ye may obtain. And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown; but we an incorruptible. I therefore so run, not as uncertainly; so fight I, not as one that beateth the air: But I keep under my body, and bring it into subjection.... RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 707 Between the ages of six and twelve Saul went to school (the House of the Book) and thoroughly learned all matters pertaining to the Scriptures normally required of a young Pharisee. He then learned a trade before entering the advanced rabbinical schools at the age of fifteen years. Ata later time he could say that he was "brought up" at Jerusalem (Acts 22:3). This would imply that he was in Jerusalem at an early age. Saul tells us that he was "taught at the feet of Gamaliel according to the perfect manner of the law of the fathers, and was zealous toward God". (Acts 22:3) Gamaliel was a famous teacher who followed the more liberal and lenient precepts of the school of Hillel rather than the stern orthodox tradition of Shammai. He allowed his students to study Greek literature in addition to the strictly Jewish subjects. Apparently he had a more tolerant attitude toward the Gentiles than most other teachers of his time. The incident mentioned in Acts 5:34-39 warms us in his favor. Saul undoubtedly owed much of his later breadth of view and generosity of spirit to this Jewish teacher. Judging from the events mentioned in the Acts, Saul learned his lessons well, for he was quickly recognized as a brilliant and zealous advocate of Pharisaic principles. Nevertheless, the strict discipline he underwent in the Jewish schools was later to prove of inestimable value in his presentation of Gospel principles to Hebrews and Greeks alike. SAUL, THE JEWISH RABBI AND PERSECUTOR. ? The seventh chapter of Acts is remarkable for its dramatic power. Stephen, one of the famous characters in the early church, defends himself before the Jewish Sanhedrin for heresy and treason. His biting words cut the Jewish leaders to the quick, and without the formalities required by law they thrust him without the city and stoned him to death. The historian then introduces the subject of this sketch as follows: "And the witnesses laid down their garments at the feet of a young man named saul." His (Luke's) psychology could scarcely be improved, for the young Pharisee is soon to be presented as one of the greatest forces in the Christian Church. The next chapter of Acts recounts other deeds of Saul. "And Saul was well pleased with his (Stephen's) death... But Saul made havoc of the church, entering into every house, and haling men and women committed them to prison." (Acts 8:1, 3) The very force with which the young Pharisee sought to blot out the heretical Christian movement perhaps portrays the sincerity by which he was actuated. In after years, Saul bitterly reproached himself for the attacks he made on the Church. "I persecuted this way unto the death, binding and delivering into prisons both men and women." (Acts 22:4) Again: "And when they were put to death I gave my voice against them." (Acts 26:10) At another time he writes: "For I am the least of the apostles, that am not meet to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of God." (1 Cor. 15:9) All these are serious condemnations and reveal by their vigor and force his recognition of the great damage done by him as a persecuting Rabbi. (See also Gal. 1:13; 1 Tim. 1:13) 708 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Questions and Problems (Deal only with those that time and circumstances permit.) 1. How would you account for the fact that so little is known of Saul's family? 2. Have a member of the class report on the city of Tarsus as it existed in Saul's day. (See Spencer, Beyond Damascus, chs. I, III; Farrar, The Life and Work of St. Paul, chs. II, III.) 3. Assign someone to describe the beliefs and practices of the ancient Pharisees. (Spencer, Beyond Damascus, ch. II; Farrar, The Life and Work of St. Paul, ch. IV.) 4. How would you explain the fact that Saul consented to the death of innocent people, yet was eventually made an apostle?