A MY MEMORY By LaVina Dodge Moeller There's a memory deep in the heart of me, Beautiful, silent and tender, Making me humble and grateful to Him— The Master of Life, her sender. Here it lies deep in my heart all the while, Keeping me happy and cheerful, Keeping me in the straight, narrow way; Sometimes inclined to be tearful. Wonderful memory, pure as the dew, Clear as the sunlight I see her; Guiding me constantly, keeping me true; Never to lie or deceive her. Never to go against what she has taught; God never gives us another— So deep in my heart and sacred I keep My wonderful mem'ry of Mother! The Relief Society and the Welfare Plan By Roscoe W. Eardley, Church Storehouse Supervisor SHE is one of the modest mothers of Israel. She sacrifices patiently for husband and children. Her home is humble but well kept. Yet, in some almost miraculous way, she is able to help her neighbors. When they are sick, she visits them. When they sorrow, she comforts them. When they hunger, she sees that food is provided, and when they are cold fuel is sent. When discouragement and despair depress them, her cheerful spirit fills them with faith and hope to try again—to carry on. Humble and plain in her bearing, she graces her calling with the spirit of a true aristocrat—an aristocrat of service. Her name? Shall we call her Legion? For she typifies the hundreds of women, officers and members of the Relief Society, who Have served their people, their Church and _ their Maker for almost a century. Elder Brigham H. Roberts has written beautifully about this "Aristocracy of Service" in the Church. Changing his words slightly to meet the ideas of today, he expresses the following inspiring thoughts: Men and women blessed with divine insight and power are giving their services practically without remuneration for the welfare of their people. They are laboring in season and out of season foi them. They are giving not only a teaching service, tending to make the truth clear and the inspiration which has come to our present leaders easily understood, but they are giving freely of their business, professional, executive and judicial abilities and craftsmanship. Men and women of the. Highest intelligence and _ spiritual qualities are devoting their lives to their people, practically without earthly reward, and are rich only in the consciousness that their services to their fellowmen are being well performed. As you read these words, you will think instantly of men and women in your own communities, as well as of men and women in presiding positions in the Church, who are numbered today among the Aristocracy of Service. You, too, may become such an aristocrat. The great Church Welfare Plan, as well as other opportunities for unselfish service in the Church, makes this possible. What is the Welfare Plan? Briefly stated, it is a union of all the forces of the Priesthood and the women of the Church to assist our people to help themselves to solve their economic and spiritual problems. In this inspired undertaking the Relief Society represents, largely, the women in the Plan. One of the pressing problems is to care for the temporal needs of the unemployed and needy. To teach this objective four things seem essential. 'They are: 1. To produce the food, clothing and other necessities that are required. 2. To distribute these necessities to all who are in need. 3. To provide work in regular industry or by work projects, so that all who are physically able may labor for what they receive, thus relieving them of the "curse of idleness and the evils of the dole". 4. To meet the social problems that have grown out of the depression and its attendant evils. What is the Relief Society Doing? To solve any problem it is necessary to ascertain the facts and then face them bravely. To know what has to be done gives one power to begin to do it. It is the work of the Ward Welfare Committee, which is composed of the Bishop or his representative, The Ward Relief Society President, The Ward Work Director, The Relief Society Work Director and representatives of the High Priests, Seventies, Elders and Adult Aaronic Priesthood to ascertain what economic and other problems confront our people. To assist the Ward Welfare Committees to gather the facts easily and accurately, the Presiding Bishopric, the General Church Welfare Committee and the General Board of Relief Society have cooperated to prepare a survey card, which is usually spoken of as "the green card." This card properly filled out is one of the principal tools in the hands of the Ward Committee. Without this tool the Committee is almost as helpless as a mason would be without a trowel or a carpenter without a hammer and saw. The gathering of the information is the responsibility of the entire committee, but experience has proven that many of the most successful surveys have been made by experienced Relief Society workers who have tactfully and gently secured the facts required. Special surveys were recently required in a number of stakes, and it was remarkable how thoroughly and quickly our sisters secured them. In one ward where the "green cards" had been kept up to date the information was available in two hours. How the Relief Society Functions in Supplying Food and Clothing for Bishops' Storehouses. The food, clothing, and other commodities supplied by the Bishops' Storehouses are largely the fruits of the labor of our people and of individual donations to the Welfare Plan. The projects to produce the raw materials needed are carried on principally, but not entirely, by Priesthood Quorums and _ other groups of men; the preparing and preservation of the food, the canning and the drying is done mainly by the women under the direction of the Relief Society. The work has been organized so that the following four classes of workers are recognized: 1. Those who are the direct recipients of the Program—those whose needs have been and will be provided for and who are physically able to work. 2. Women from the "borderline" cases—those whose incomes are scarcely adequate to meet their needs and who, through work projects, are given the opportunity to increase their incomes. 3. Volunteer workers who desire to donate their time. 4. Relief Society members and their friends who respond to the call when an emergency arises. 688 - OCTOBER, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, OCTOBER - 689 As for clothing and bedding, it is provided almost entirely by our women under the direction of the Relief Society. In wards and stakes this important phase of the work is being carried on and in the larger communities sewing centers have been organized. The Relief Society is a most vital force in the production program of the Welfare Plan. The Relief Society's Important Duty in Distribution. What does the individual family need in food, clothing, fuel? The president of the ward Relief Society, or her representative, ascertains the facts by visiting the home and talking with the mother in the home. Having learned the family's needs, she presents the list to the bishop for his approval or suggestions, and it is then sent to the Bishops' Storehouse. The Storehouse promptly fills the order. The enlarged facilities of the Welfare Plan—the green survey cards, the information supplied by other members of the committee, the canning and sewing centers, the Budget-assigned projects and the Bishops' Storehouses—place facilities at the disposal of the Relief Society organizations which enable them to meet promptly the new and larger demands of presentday economic and social conditions. That the present-day challenge is being successfully met is attested by the thousands to whom help has been given during the past three years. 'The necessities of life have been provided and distributed. Work has been found for hundreds of our women and girls. Many of the social problems growing out of the depression have been solved and a system of record keeping has been set up to assure down-to-the-minute information and prompt assistance in cases of need. It is not thinkable, but suppose the Relief Society should stop, what would happen to the Welfare Plan? SUMMER IDYLL I’ll give you half my heart, For if I give it all Pll have no heart to say that this must end— This summer's romance, destined ere begun To die with winter's snow. I’ll give you half my heart Then say goodby, and smile at summer's romance— Dead, like fallen leaves. And only half my heart will bear a scar With winter's snow.