[WomansExponent | Vol5 | 1876 | December | Issue: 14 | Title: AND WHAT THEY ARE TO DO. | Author: Unknown]

AND WHAT THEY ARE TO DO.

	Bessie Bramble, in the "Woman's Jour-
nal," discourses on the "Surplus Woman"
question after the following fashion, taking
for her text the announcement in that jour-
nal that there are in Great Britain 900 000
women in excess of men:
	900,000! Gracious goodness! Just im-
agine 900,000 slim, stiff, staid, starched old
maids, and no fault of theirs; 900,000 maid-
en aunts more or less "fussy;" 900,000 wo-
men, who by a mysterious dispensation of
Providence are unprovided with husbands
to "support them;" 900,000 ivies without
any oaks to twine on; 900,000 "lone roses

[COLUMN 2]

to pine on the stem"; 900,000 Juliets with
"nary" a Romeo; 900,000 "weaker vessels"
and nobody to lean on; 900,000 "social fail-
ures," as Sir Henry James calls them; 900,
000 women out of their heaven ordained
sphere; not from choice, perhaps, but be-
cause they cannot get in; 900,000 women
who cannot ask their husbands at home,
when they want to know anything, as St.
Paul teaches; 900,000 women who must
"hoe their own row;" 900,000 women who
stand no chance of being harassed and wor-
ried out of their lives by good-for-nothing,
mean men, and finally, to be brief, 900,000
women in Great Britain, alone, left "out in
the cold," although the wise men tell us
that God and Nature have ordained that
woman's "true sphere" is home and house-
work with a husband to "support her."
With this the most of women are, doubt-
less, disposed to agree, but what can be
done about 900,000 exceptions to the rule?
	Carl Schurz tells us that women should
be educated for wives and mothers, and all
education for girls should tend to husbands
and housekeeping. This would be all very
well, perhaps, if the supply of husbands
would "hold out," but statistics tell us there
are over 900,000 surplus women in Great
Britain, and over 30,000 in the State of
Massachusetts alone, and heaven only knows
how many elsewhere.
	Now in view of this tremendous fact, we
call upon the philosophers and learned men,
who profess to know all about the chief
end of women, to explain what is to be done
with these surplus women who are fixed, by
fate, out of their true sphere?	Oh, but the education of women should
tend to "husbands and housekeeping," says
Mr. Schurz; but he doesn't tell where the
husbands are to come from, or where wo-
men are to get the houses to keep or the
money to keep them, and housekeeping is
not a business that pays, as every woman
knows. Now if Parliament, in lieu of hus-
bands, would furnish each of these 900,000
surplus women with a house to keep and an
adequate income, we have no doubt the
most of them would be content—even with-
out a husband—to go on keeping house to
the end of the chapter, and would show no
disposition whatever to crowd their way in-
to the businesses that pay. But as long as
these women have to make their own
money or starve, they will reach out, just as
men do for whatever will pay best.
	A woman who has discovered that she
can make three thousand a year and keep a
carriage, as a doctor, is not to be scared
back into the kitchen for board and clothes;
if she should find, by dint of pluck and per-
severance, that soft seats were not reserved
for men alone, it is not likely she will dig
and delve in the depths of drudgery, for
five dollars a week; if she should discover
that fat fees followed fine ability and full
knowledge of the law and gospel, without
regard to sex, it is hardly probable she will
sew shirts for a shilling a piece or darn
stockings for nothing. The philosophers
and wise men may talk till all is blue about
woman's true sphere, but as long as hun-
dreds of thousands of women are com-
pelled to shift for themselves, they will do
what they best can for the best pay, sphere
or no sphere. The time is gone by when
they can be hooted away from the profess-
ions or the trades, because to enter these
will, as men say, unsex them.
	Mrs. Swisshelm says, "The philosophers
seem to know that hard work never unsex-
es a woman, only wages can do that." A
woman may toil like a beast of burden, as
in Germany; she may work in the harvest
field all day and do the house work at


night, as in Pennsylvania; she may work
eighteen hours out of the twenty-four any-
where, but there is no flurry about her be-
ing unsexed until she reaches for the same
wages as man in the capacity of a doctor, a
lawyer, a preacher or a legislator. Ay,
there's the rub
	That's where the howl comes in! But
women who have to take care of them-
selves are learning to disregard howling.
Experience teaches them, as it does men,
that they must strike out for themselves or
go to the bottom. They soon find that
while it is very pretty and poetical to con-
sider woman an angel and man as her pro-
tector, yet when the question comes down
in plain prose, to the "bottom facts," of
bread and butter, they must look out for
"number one." And when a brave, true-
hearted, high-spirited woman makes up her
mind to take the bull of public opinion by
the horns, ten chances to one she wins.—
The Golden Dawn.
	We do not believe there are any surplus
women; there is not one too many in all
the world. It is only the consequence of
man-made laws and misconstructed gov-
ernments. The writer calls upon philoso-
phers and learned men to explain what is to
be done with these surplus women, who are
fixed by fate out of their true sphere. We
will give her some ideas upon the subject in
our next issue of the EXPONENT, as it was
crowded out of this.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


Headache From Eye strain.—Dr. Weir Mitch
ell, in the American Journal of Medical Sciences
observes that few but opthalmic surgeons are
aware of the need of interrogating the eye for an-
swers to some of the hard questions which are put
to us by certain head symptoms; and he wishes to
impress upon the profession: (1.) That there are
many headaches which are due indirectly to disor-
ders of the refractive or accommodative apparatus-
of the eyes. (2.) That in these instances the
brain symptom is often the most, and sometimes
the sole, prominent symptom of the eye trouble,
so while there may be no pain or sense of fatigue
in the eye, the strain with which it is used may
be interpreted solely by occipital or frontal head-
ache. (3.) That the long continuance of eye trouble
may be the unsuspected source of insomnia, verti-
go, nausea, and general failure of health. (4.)
That in many cases the eye trouble becomes sud-
denly mischievous, owing to some failure of the
general health, or to increased sensitiveness of the
brain from moral or mental causes. Several illus-
trative cases are given, and the moral is: Be
careful not to strain your eyes.


On the evening of Dec. 5, the most tragi-
cal event ever known to transpire in any
theatre took place in Brooklyn, at the Brook-
lyn Theatre. The last act in the play of
"The Two Orphans" was being enacted,
when an alarm of fire was given from be-
hind the stage. The wildest confusion pre-
vailed immediately, and nearly three hun-
dred persons were burned and crushed to
death.


Fannie—"Why, Susie, what a queer
way of doing your hair—just like a snail."
"Well, my dear, I don't think any one can
call that a 'fast' headdress."


[Column 1]
