DEAR EDITOR:

	Thinking, perhaps, a few lines might be wel-
come, we thought we would inform you that
we are still alive as a Relief Society, and desire
to be useful in the kingdom of God.
	We held our nineteenth anniversary on
Monday, the 5th of May, 1887, at 10 a.m.,
Prest. Liljenquist presiding. There were
present Sister Luna Y. Thatcher of the Stake
Presidency, Sister Mary Freeze, Bishop S. M.
Molen and Sister J. E. Molen, Stake Prest. of
Primaries, and several brethren. After the
usual opening exercises, the minutes of the last
annual meeting were read and adopted. The
Secretary then read the following report:
	Statistical: Members, 240; meetings held,
20; average attendance, 40. Financial: On
hand, May 5th, 1885, cash, $18; property,
$14.21; real estate, $665; wheat, 700 bushels.
Received: Cash, $93.42; property, $70.71.
Disbursed: Charitable purposes, cash, $84.77;
property, $61.92; hospital, $6; home industries,
$10.65.
	Prest. Liljenquist made opening remarks.
and gave a good report of the labors of the
Relief Society during the past year.
	Coun. Johnsen testified to Sister Liljenquist’s
remarks, and thanked the young men who had
met to sing for us.
	Sister L. Y. Thatcher was pleased to meet
with the sisters of Hyrum. Said, “It is our
duty to sustain the authorities of the Church
with our faith and prayers. We are too apt to
criticise. Sisters, when you are in trouble and
sorrow humble yourselves and fast and pray,
and the Lord will remove the cloud and give
you the blessings you desire.”
	Sister Freeze said, “You have a good work-
ing Society, a band of noble women, which

[Column 2]
your Bishop should be proud of. Your report
is excellent. One good thing is you have but
little in your treasury; it is better to give it to
the needy than to lay it up. Let us be humble
and not wait for the Lord to humble us; if we
serve Him in prosperity He will not desert us
in the hour of sorrow.”
	Sister J. E. Molen spoke very encouragingly.
	Bishop Molen testified to the good work the
Society  had accomplished. Said, “I am
proud of our Relief Society.” He then pre-
sented the officers of the Relief Society for the
ensuing year. Prest. Liljenquist and all the
officers were sustained as before, excepting Sis-
ter Halversen and C. C. Hansen, who were
honorably released from their duty as teachers
on account of sickness. Sister M. Winge was
elected a teacher. Singing. Benediction by
Elder William Williams.
	2 p.m. Meeting called to order by Prest.
Liljenquist. Singing. Prayer by Elder H. E.
Nielsen. Singing.
	Sister Mary Freeze said, “Every principle of
this Gospel is ennobling, and especially plural
marriage. I have no doubt but that each one
wants a celestial glory; to me there is no sacri-
fice too great for this. If we want this glory
we must obey every principle. I would not be
out of it for all I have on earth or ever expect
to have, not even if I should have to lose my
life. We women are now disfranchised, but if
we cannot vote, we can use our influence for
good, and keep the commandments of God.”
Spoke of the word of wisdom, and urged the
young to keep it.
	Sister Thatcher spoke on the word of wisdom.
Said, “It is not only in eating and drinking,
but we should not overwork ourselves.” Gave
very good counsel to mothers on training their
children. “Make home happy and cheerful for
them; get them to obey you through affection,
not through fear.”
	Sisters Unsworth, Thorsen and Wilson en-
couraged the sisters to faithfulness.
	Elders C. C. Shaw, H. E. Nielsen and Wm.
Williams addressed the meeting.
	A few closing remarks by Prest. Liljenquist
and meeting adjourned for one year. Singing.
Benediction by H. T. Johnsen.
					C. LILJENQUIST, Prest.,
