	TWENTIETH WARD, S. L. CITY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The  eighth anniversary of the Primary
Association of the Twentieth Ward was held
in the school house, April 21st, 1887, Prest.
Emma Toone presiding. After singing and
prayer, the minutes of the annual meeting of
April 29th, 1886, and the report were read and
approved. The programme for the occasion
was next carried out. It was as follows: Recita-
tion of Welcome, by four little boys; Recitation,
Katie Sansome; Essay on good manners, Al-
bert Romney; Duet, Ida Sansome and Ida
Savage; Reading, George Ottinger; Recitation,
“A Dream and its Answer,” by Misses Tovey
and Armstrong; Recitation, Master Evans;
Song, Alice Clowes; Dialogue, on Politeness,
by four young girls; Questions and Answers on
the Godhead, by the members; Recitation,
Pauline Held; Duet, by Sarah Nott and Lizzie
Pritchard; Dialogue, “What shall we Follow?”
by eight boys; Essay, “Character,” Lizzie
Pritchard; Organ Solo, Kate Romney; Recita-
tion, Pearl Culmer; Recitation, “Obedience,”
by the members; Recitation, Isabelle Romney;
Song, Irene Daynes; Dialogue, Katie Lee,
Willie and Lee Richards; Recitation, Kathie
Culmer; Recitation, Hugh Sainsberry; Recita-


tion, Artie Culmer; Duet, Lena Savage and
Kate Dunbar.
	Sister Toone made a few remarks, expressing
her good feeling towards the children, and
thanking them for their good behavior during
the meeting. She then called two of the little
boys, George Ottinger and Albert Romney, to
the stand to make a few remarks. Both of
them responded to the call, showing their obe-
dience to her by saying a few words.
	Sister Toone was presented with a nice satchel
by Sister M. Sharp, her first counselor, in be-
half of the children of the Primary.  Presents
were also given to the Secretary, Miss Selina
Puzey; Organist, Kate Romney; and Corres-
ponding Secretary, Lizzie Pritchard.
	Remarks were made by Bro. George Romney,
Prest. Ellen Clawson, Sister Felt, Sister L. A.
Wells, Bro. Salmon, Bro. Savage, Miles Romney
and Dr. Ferguson.
	Meeting adjourned for one year. Singing,
“Did you Think to Pray.” Refreshments were
then partaken of, after which the meeting was
dismissed.
	In the evening the parents and a few invited
guests met in a sociable capacity, and the fol-
lowing programme was carried out: Speech, by
Bro. Romney; Recitation, “Tom’s Little Star,”
by Cecilia Sharp; Song, Fannie Savage; humor-
ous reading, “Little Yacob Straus” C. W.
Stayner; Organ Solo, Kate Romney; Grand
shaking of hands and refreshments; Song,
Emma Simmons; Recitation, “How Miss Edith
Entertained her Sister’s Beau,” Belle Salmon;
Duet, Mary and Ellen Romney; Remarks, by
Bro. Salmon; Organ Solo, Joseph J. Daynes;
Reading, Bro. Willis; Recitation, John Airmet;
Guitar selection, Messrs. Ellis, Willis and Sim-
mons; Remarks, by Sister Presendia Kimball;
Address, by Bro. Puzey; Song, Fredrick Cul-
mer; Address, by Bro. Stayner; Comic Song,
Bro. Sainsberry; Address, by Bro. Dunbar;
Recitation, Bro. Airmet.	
