Journal of Discourses, No. 5, Vol. I): “I will
tell you the truth as you will find it in eternity. If
your children do not receive impressions of true
piety, virtue, tenderness and every principle of
the holy Gospel, you may be assured that their
sins will not be required at the hands of the father,
but of the mother. Lay it to heart, ye mothers, for
it will invariably be so.	*   *   *	If you
suffer your children to grow up wild and uncor-
rected, when they come into the hands of their
fathers, and will not follow their counsels, let
them be disowned and have no portion in the in-
heritance; let them be disfranchised, be banished
from Israel, and not numbered in the books of the
offspring of Abraham.	*   *   *	If
children are not taught in their youth by their
mothers to revere and follow the counsels of their
fathers it will be hard indeed for the father ever
to control them. And when I undertake to con-
trol a child who wants to conquer me it shall be
death to him before I yield.	*   *   *   *			
Mothers, let your minds be sanctified before the
Lord, for this is the commencement, the true
foundation of a proper education in your children;
the beginning point to form a disposition in your
offspring that will bring to you satisfaction, com-
fort, honor and glory.” I would recommend every
mother to read this entire discourse, for it is full
of rich instruction upon this point, and is in per-
fect harmony with the revelations of God given
through the Prophet Joseph.
	Think for a moment. The little tabernacle that
you have been instrumental in bringing into this
world is quickened by a spirit that came from God
and esteemed by Him as of such intrinsic value,
as not to be allowed to come alone or unaccom-
panied, but is attended by a guardian angel, who
will, although an unseen observer, most certainly
testify to the treatment it receives at your hands.
With this view, then, shall we spend our entire
time in the decoration of our children’s bodies,
or in pandering to their appetites, neglecting the
development of those attributes of deity which
only require proper cultivation to give their latent
life all that strength and vigor which constitute
true manhood and womanhood? To whom belong
the principles of honor, integrity, virtue and truth?
To God. And these can only be manifest in the
flesh through the spirit which came from God,
and He will hold us responsible for this great
trust.
	We must remember, also, that our children be-
long to the Church with which we ourselves are
identified, and that we owe a duty to the Church
in regard to them, and we should preserve them
for the Church’s use. All the honor they receive
therein will come to us also if we have done our
duty, while their dishonor will cover us with their
shame if we have neglected our duty. One great
weakness that I have noticed in many mothers is
in their want of firmness. To kindly say no, when
no should be said, and maintain that position de-
spite tears and entreaties, will give strength to a
mother in the government of her family that is be-
yond estimate. For the want of this firmness
many a mother is a slave to her children, and she
finds in after life that she has lost all control over
them. I think it wise to early teach our children
the principle of sacrifice, for this is one of the
great essentials to our salvation and exaltation.
Those who have been truly great on earth have

[Column 2]
invariably learned this lesson, and that, too, gener-
ally in early life.
	We cannot guard too closely the morals of our
children. Have we the courage to say to them,
“You cannot go with that exclusion party or to
that dance, because certain individuals will be
there whose character is questionable?” Can we
say to them that they must not indulge in pleasure
seeking on the Sabbath day, that they cannot be
out at nights, and many other things of equal im-
portance? And when we have said this can we
hold firmly the ground we have taken although our
children should quote President So and So, or
Bishop So and So’s children or the children of
any other dignitaries as being allowed these in-
dulgences? Can we say to the son of our friend
and neighbor to whom our daughter is betrothed,
“It is now ten o’clock and Josephine must go to
bed?” Can we teach our daughters that rambles
in the darkness of night or loiterings at the gate
with feet upon the damp ground are both danger-
ous—the first to good morals, the second to
health?
	I recollect, some years ago, remonstrating with
a girl twenty-six years of age because of her
constant practice of sitting up with her lover until
a very late hour. Said she, “Why, Aunt Ruth,
can’t you trust me?” I replied emphatically, “No,
I cannot trust you.” She felt herself insulted at
the time, but the sequel proved I was right, for
she has cause to regret to this day that she trusted
herself too far. Mothers, you will be doing your
daughters a kindness to limit your trust in them in
this one particular, and exercise that surveillance
and motherly authority that are the true safe-
guards of virtue and maidenly purity, and they will
esteem you all the more highly in after years.
Such a thing as lost virtue among the daughters of
the Jews is a rare occurrence indeed, and their
virtue is due to an unceasing vigilance coupled
with a wise and proper exercise of parental
authority. For while Jewish parental kindness is
proverbial its authority is almost absolute, and is
in perfect keeping with the law of God both
Mosaic and modern.
	Our boys, also! Do we not too early in life
place them at too great a distance from us? For
example: Had we kept up the practice of kissing
them good night until they were well along in their
teens, we would have detected and corrected their
early habit of smoking, in hundreds of instances,
before the habit had become a confirmed one.
We might elaborate upon this subject to consider-
able length, but this one example will serve to
show how necessary it is for us to keep our child-
ren close to us; possess ourselves of their entire
confidence and never lose it, then our reward will
be all we can desire. True, some may be forward
and cut themselves loose from parental restraint
and authority, but the consciousness of having
done our duty will relieve us from those regrets
that always follow neglect.
	We hail with pleasure the elevating and cor-
recting influences of the Improvement Associa-
tions, the Sabbath Schools and the Primaries, but
a mother’s influence, wisely exercised from infancy
to maturity, is more potent than them all. Realiz-
ing this fact, let us double our diligence, having
in view, also, the many evils that exist among us,
and the avenues that are kept open night and day
to allure and decoy the youth of Zion from the
path of virtue and honor.
	One more word upon the subject of promiscuous
gatherings and I will stop. If the same strictness
in this regard were observed now as in the early
days of the Church, how many would be under
condemnation? In the month of October, 1837,
(if I mistake not) thirty-one persons were disfel-
lowshiped from the Church in Kirtland for joining
in a dance with the outsiders, and each one had to
make public acknowledgement of their wrong be-
fore they were restored to fellowship. Yet some
of our young people complain of the arbitrary rule
of the Priesthood when they condemn these pro-
miscuous associations.
								Aunt Ruth.


