DEAR SISTER WELLS:

	After saying goodbye at your office, I re-
mained in the city until the 15th of April,
when I started by train for Thompson's Springs,
where we arrived at 11 p.m., and were obliged
to stay there two nights, in order to get con-
veyed to Moab, Emery Co., a distance of three
miles. We reached the Grande River in time
to cross before sundown, which we did in a
small boat, the wind blowing a regular gale.
We found kind friends awaiting on the opposite
side, and soon came in sight of the little town.
There are only a very few of our people here,
and during my short stay I really pitied them,
they are surrounded by such a rough element.
There are some good, faithful sisters here, but
they are unable to accomplish much with so
many things of an evil nature to contend with.
I was favorably impressed with their school
teacher, a very intelligent young lady from the
north; I felt she must be very lonely, being
away from home, as I had been. I was very
thankful to find that I could, after a few days,
continue my homeward journey, where I found
myself the eighth day from starting. I was so
rejoiced to see the dear ones at home again, and
press to my heart the little ones that for so
many years claimed a mother's love and care;
but all looked strange and new to me; I could
scarcely make myself think that the general
surroundings were the same as when I left, and
now, though I can say I most willingly assume
the oldtime responsibilities, it seems a little
harder to bear after so long a vacation, yet I
feel that the loving, encouraging words of my
many dear sisters there will prove of great
worth to me, if I can only keep them in mind.
Oh! I did feel to thank my Heavenly Father
daily, while there, that He had permitted me
to once more look upon the home and friends
of childhood, after spending nine years of iso-
lation in a New Mexico home. More especially
did I appreciate the privilege of spending a
little time in one sacred place, and the blessings
I received therein. O, it was so near Him
and the angels of light, and the sweet and
noble faces of those who labor there, would I
could keep them ever in my sight, and I feel
that the thought of them, and the grand work
that is being done in that holy house, will com-
fort me through many changing and weary
scenes the future may bring.
	How often I ask myself, “Will I be faithful
through the trying ordeals of the next few
years?” Oh, kind and loving Parent, give me
faith and strength to overcome and be worthy to
share in the rich blessing that shall be poured
out upon thy Saints who withstand the fiery,
trying times, and prove that the contact has
passed, and they remain pure and true to
Thee.
	This, I believe, is the prayer of each Saint
of God, and well we can say, “In Him alone
we trust, knowing well that all other powers
will fail.”
	Dear sister, I hope your health has improved,
and do trust that your life may be spared
many, many years to bless your sex, as you
have done, and that I may meet you and enjoy
your pleasant conversation often in life.
	There was something that was denied me
during my visit on account of bad weather, 
and that was visiting often my mother's grave.
I did feel it would be such a sweet solace to
kneel there and implore strength from above,
as I have in the long ago, but I was favored so
much that I will not complain.


Please accept this rambling letter, as I be-
lieve some of the readers of our EXPONENT
will be pleased to hear of my safe return to the
south.  I will try, ere long, to tell you some-
thing of the Navajos.
	Ever wishing to remember and be remem-
bered by the humble and good, I am,
				Your sister,
