HIGHER EDUCATION FOR WOMEN.

	I read, the other day, the synopsis of a dis-
course delivered by the noted Dr. J. P. Newman,
in his church in Washington. He is giving a 
series of lectures on the education of women,
which he dignifies by the title of sermons, and
lauds the sanctity of the Sabbath day to them,
which, in a measure, doubtless gives them the air
at least of sacredness. The length to which these
lectures, to adopt his title, discourses, have been
drawn out will be seen from the following:
	“I have sought,” said Dr. Newman, “a logical
connection in these discourses. First, ‘Woman
in history;’ second ‘Woman’s mission;’ and to-
night we shall consider ‘Woman’s education for
that mission.’ Next Sabbath evening we will
talk of Woman’s power in that mission,’ and the
following week of Woman’s power for that mis-
sion.”
This comes as nearly working a subject into dis-
tinctions withont a difference as well can be
imagined. While it gives evidence of a plenti-
tude of resource it also shows a lamentable ab-
sence of topics. Not that too much can be said
on the proper education of women, but that it can
be drawn into atmospheric thinness by confining
it in such limits. The changes in the title of sub-
jects give evidence of power to play with words,
to make verbal changes, but to leave the great
text ever the same.
	But these remarks are not to the point. Dr.
Newman understands education in the sense that
is now commonly accepted, and he looks but for the
accomplishment of that work of regeneration
among the women which, in times gone by long—
2,000 years ago—it was the Holy Spirit alone
could accomplish, while I can understand that
education with some, like the quack’s pill, is the
cure for all sorts, I do not understand how the
wise can view it in that light. For those who look
upon it so, there is much to unlearn. The power
of speech is not the gift of inspiration, and we are
still like children in many respects very easily
pleased, and more especially when our self-esteem
is appealed to. I do not take exception to Dr.
Newman’s position in the main, but the question
that presses itself upon me always is this; when
women shall have been accorded equal rights with
men—at least in matters that relate to education—
when women become educated as the most san-
guine advocate of education hopes for them, what
then? There is not a question that the admira-
tion of many for education is but another phase
of the insanity that inspires in some faith in a cure-
all pill. All this if undertaken should be com-
menced and carried on for results. The very last
and least result should be the desire for education
for itself alone. Education, power, virtue, tears,
smiles, the Gospel of Jesus Christ, are all for pur-
poses. When any of these become the great aim,
instead of a means only to a higher end, their
worth and their purpose become valueless and the
results attained will never justify the labor ex-
pended to secure them. Paul said he was not
ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, not because it
was a means, i.e., “for it is the power of God unto
salvation.” Without it the end could not be ob-
tained, therefore it was all important, not for itself,
but through it salvation might be had. Surely edu-
cation in the worldly sense of the day cannot be
of greater import than the Gospel of Christ, even
though professed disciples of Christ and the self-
appointed feeders of his alleged sheep, may see fit
to place it before the Gospel as a saving factor.
If the religion of Christ is but a means we can
give no more credit and accord no more power to
education. Though the great Word-Smith—Dr.
Newman—indirectly attempt to do so.


All wise people desire to be educated. They desire
it because it gives something superior to itself, and
that something is power. Power is desirable be-
cause more good can be done by its possession
than can be accomplished without it. Good should
be done and wished, for reasons and for ends
higher than the thing itself; and when we can do
all the good we desire there will come yet higher
reasons for the exercise of our powers than are re-
vealed to us. As we go on from faith to faith,
so we go on from power to power—the highest
motives now, becoming, by the lapse of time and
the development of our powers but secondary
considerations, that lead to walks and aims yet
higher. Not that we ever lose or cease to need
the old, but that the old motives, ways, ends and
aims are ever added to, are but the stepping
stones to that which is higher and nobler still. So
on through the eternal years; ever something to
strive for; ever new heights to soar through all
time. Were it otherwise there would come a time
when the immortal would have reached a limit,
when for the Infinite there could be no advance-
ment. That limit reached, the joy of life, the pur-
pose of immortality is destroyed, the infinite is
no longer infinite and religion and faith in good
become an idle mockery and the athiest alone has
the truth.
	Ah! it is said that those who profess the name
of Christ will reject his sweet and boundless phil-
osophy for the vain theories of the world which
do not satisfy and which are as dismally full of
uncertain conjecture as ever spurious religious
creeds contained. Wrapt up in their own learning,
in the consciousness of great individual powers,
men who aver themselves, to be guided by the light
of the Holy Spirit are lured into reasonings and
to theories that end gloomily enough, for their end
is soon reached and there is no purpose to them.
The heart of the wise man is never closed to any
light. No one guided by the Holy
Spirit will claim for education a cure
for the world's evils. God has made many
things to be done in this world. To perform one
of them—to be educated—is not all; it is but one
and yet it is much. It is not in real wisdom to
claim that education or universal suffrage, or tem-
perance or honesty will bring to the earth that
happy condition which is the wish of the righte-
ous and the promise of God. There are many
laws and they must all be observed.
	It is because all that we do here is for a greater
and a grander purpose that the Latter-day Saint
gives an intelligent reason for living and he alone
gives it. It is because the theories of the most ad-
vanced ministers are unsatisfactory and vain,
that atheism grows apace and that the religious
structure of the civilized world totters and is ready
to fall. The very ministers who advance these
theories realize how insufficient they are; they
cannot trust in their own claims; they are insin-
cere and being insincere are weak. Had they but
the strength to trust God and His Holy Spirit for
direction we would not see infidelity so rampant.
	Dr. Newman talks well. He tells much truth;
but he is without that day star which lights up the
understanding of the true and humble follower of
Christ and which tells us why we are here, whence
we came, whither we return and which enables us
to place a just value upon our efforts.
	All things, however high, are but the means to
things that are higher; and when women and men
have attained the education which Dr. Newman
would have them, the purpose of life is but
little nearer its fulfillment; the mission of both
has become more important and a wider field of
immediate necessities to fulfill that mission has
but opened. Not in education is salvation to be
found, though to be saved we must be educated.
The beginning and the end of righteousness is in
obedience to the Supreme Will, for in that
obedience lies the grand and enduring strength of
Christ-like humility.
