LESSON II
Work and Business
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MARCH
(This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in March)
COURAGE
I. Courage enables us to encounter danger and difficulties fearlessly. It makes us stronger, braver, and more resolute. "Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the Lord."?Psalms 31:24.
II. Moral courage or the courage of one's convictions. A. Joseph Smith the Prophet Inception of Relief Society movement. B. The L. D. S. Missionaries. C. Pioneers. D. Historical examples among women.
1. Susan B. Anthony and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, in the face of ridicule, worked for women's suffrage.
2. Harriet Beecher Stowe worked for the abolition of slavery.
3. Florence Nightingale, first as well as one of the greatest of war nurses, devoted her life to the care of the sick.
III. Physical Courage?the type displayed by the soldier. A. David, the shepherd lad who slew the great Goliath. B. Washington at Valley Forge. C. Examples from the World War.
IV. Everyday Courage. A. Do daily tasks cheerfully. B. Make
brave decisions. C. Go on on with our work, even though unjust things are said of us. D. Seize opportunities with eagerness and zeal. "If I want to be a happy, useful citizen, I must be brave?This means I must be brave enough and strong  enough to control what I think and what I say and what I do."'?Colliers. "Be strong! We are not here to play, to dream, to drift; We have hard work to do and loads to lift; Shun not the struggle?face it Tis God's Gift.""?M. D. Babcock. V. Courage to observe Church standards. A. Is of vital importance in Relief Society work. B. Is a positive force in character building. Two Artists Two Artists stood at the dawn of day Where the way of life before them lay; Each felt the urge that is heaven lent To whom the God of Arts hath sent. Said the first, "I will paint for the world to see A masterpiece of artistry; At my touch, all men and the crowned king Will hold my name, and my praise will sing!" So he caught its gleam from the golden cloud, And the ocean's blue, and the morn-mist's shroud; Then with master stroke he flung them high? A scene of grandeur beneath the sky. The crowds came fast with praises free; The Artists gazed at his artistry? But when he viewed what his hand had wrought, *Twas not the thing himself had sought. The second, too, would win high place, An honored name in the world's great race; He, too, would work; his highest goal To put on his canvas a bit of soul. He wrought all day with patient skill. He wrought all day with his brush, until A little child with tear-filled eye And quivering lips came slowly by. Then the Artist turned from his mastery, For his soul was filled with sympathy; And then, with tender touch and mild, He drew a sketch for the little child. Till the baby smiled and raised his eyes In all of a baby's glad surprise. The Artist, thrilled with loves increase, Knew not?that the sketch was his masterpiece.. ?Alice Morrill.