Marilie's Ghost By Helen Kimball Orgill There are ghosts; but the one which haunted Marilie was different from the ordinary run of them. Hers was the ghost of a story that wanted to be written. The Alden family came from Boston to Alberta. The mother and father had engaged in pedagogical and other educational pursuits; but one day a newspaper article had attracted them, depicting the wonderful opportunities of the Northwest. A spirit of adventure seized both parents. What could be more thrilling than the prospect of owning acres of rich prairie land, acres which could be made to yield a bounteous living? In addition would there not come renewal of health and strength? So they went, selling all possessions which could not be taken. It was a far cry from teaching school in Boston to homesteading in western Canada. Years of disillusionment followed. They both pined for the cozy comforts of the old home. True, health and strength had come to them, as well as the children; but they wearied of the unceasing struggle incident to life in the rigorous North. It had been fine as long as the novelty lasted; but now, feeling unable to overcome the longings for the old home conditions, they once more disposed of their belongings, sold the land to which they now held title, and went back. But in the meantime Marilie, eldest of. Three daughters, had met big, handsome Jim Graham. Besides, youth is more easily transplanted; so she had no desire to follow the rest of her family. Jim weaved wondrous romance as he gazed across the wide stretches of rolling hills. How he loved the prairie, with its sunny skies, invigorating climate and green grass. All that was needed to make his prospects perfect was the addition of Marilie to grace his humble abode. She in turn absorbed some of his enthusiasm. So they were married, with the future looming brightly with rose-hued dreams. With foresight they planted many trees, building always with an eye for the future. Then came Betty, the wonderful first child, followed by the boy, Danny. There was indeed something to work for now. In the meantime there was a gradual stirring in Marilie's being. During her high school days, Marilie had shown undoubted literary ability. Her composition work had called forth unstinted praise from the instructors, MARILIE'S GHOST 605 "There is no literary height you may not attain to," one enthusiastic professor had declared. With the passing of the years that followed, these words were almost forgotten. The days and months seemed so crowded with matters very foreign to a literary life. But in her young married life, with the two children to care for, strangely enough, ambition was reborn, and with it a sense of guilt for neglecting a God-given talent. There were tremors in her very soul as glimmerings of this power, this ability to write, was making itself felt. And all nature, as viewed from her eyes, took on a cloak of beauty. Before, she would rush to the spring for water, and only thoughts of the work in hand came to her. Now she invariably paused as different shades of vegetation met her gaze. The aromatic odor of bergamot and various herbs soothed her senses as poetic phrases rushed to her brain. After such experiences there was nearly always something burning or boiling over on the stove, or perhaps dinner was late. In a word, something seemed to go wrong about the house. Marilie began to glimpse the struggle ahead. At any cost, Jim and the children must not be neglected; on the other hand, she was determined to cling to a career of writing. One task must not suffer at the expense of the other. But her own strength and ability to follow this straight line had not been figured on. Story writing is very engrossing, and a pioneer life anywhere | is a continual struggle. A gradual slighting of her home was the inevitable result. It showed itself first in the untidy appearance of the children. Jim was often annoyed by missing buttons. The house work no longer went like a clock. Jim was unusually patient, realizing the sacrifice Marilie had made in marrying him. The true nature of existing conditions dawned upon her one day, as Betty was coming to the house with her father. The window was up and she glanced out through the curtain in time to hear Betty remark, ?Mother's been writing again." The father placed an arm about her shoulders as he answered, "My poor little girl." Marilie felt the blood rush to her temples. It was not so much what was said as the idea that they were suffering together, sympathizing together, while she was the cause of it all, and, therefore, not included. So, came the determination to give up all thoughts of a career. But as time went on, this well-meant resolve weakened, and she found herself trying to eke out spare moments in which to set down the ideas which continued to fill her consciousness. It was early in the spring, too early for any work to be done on the land. Jim and some neighbors were planning to hunt for 
 some of their stray horses. It would mean two or three days absence at least. A te Marilie knew that here was an opportunity to go to her beloved writing. Besides a few chores to do nights and mornings, there was nothing rushing. Betty and Danny had built a play house of cobble rocks in the coulee near by, and when the weather was favorable, spent much of their time there. They had chosen a dry 'place, but a considerable amount of mud almost surrounded it. Marilie felt elated. She would write that story now with no fear of a disturbance. For months it had loomed up like a spectre, staring at her from all angles. What a relief it would be to get it safely on paper, if only to rest in the bottom of her trunk. Soon the story was being formed into written words, phrases, and sentences. They fairly leaped from her pencil point. Marilie almost wondered where they came from?surely not from her brain. Of course not; she was merely a medium, whereby a masterpiece was brought into being. Exultingly she wrote on and on, regardless of time. When her note book was full, she reached up on the shelf for some brown wrapping paper and continued. Her pencil broke, and not deigning to lose time, she tore the wood away from the lead with her fingers. After a time Betty came in.' "Mother." No answer. ) "Mother, listen. Danny won't keep. His sunfens on, His feet are getting wet." Marilie looked in her little girl's direction, then went on writing. Betty went out, but soon came in again. "Mother, his feet are sopping wet." Still no answer; so she went back to play. A half hour later, the story was completed. She placed it in the bottom of her trunk, then gazed defiantly across the room. She challenged her ghost. Immediately afterwards, a brooding sense of something gone wrong overshadowed her. Where were the children? There was a faint memory of Betty's coming in, but what Betty wanted she could not remember. Starting down the road she met them, Danny holding Betty's hand. She sighed with momentary relief. Betty pointed down at her brother's feet. "Danny, Danny," cried the mother. "You wouldn't listen to me," accused the sister. Marilie shot her a comprehending gaze, but said nothing. Had not Danny been the "croupy kind" all might have been well. As it was, his mother knew what to expect. Hurriedly she and Betty made preparations to get him into MARILIE'S GHOST 607 a warm bed. But before this was accomplished, the tell-tale cough was heard. Before night had set in, Marilie felt inadequate to the occasion. Never had an attack been so intense. Betty offered to ride the pony over to Belmont's ranch and zet someone to go for the doctor; but a snow storm came up, increasing in its fury as the evening wore on. So the mother knew the fight must be made alone. ' Valiantly the little girl stayed by her mother's side until persuaded to go to bed. One by one the remedies were tried out. The croup simply would not loosen. How she prayed as she worked! "Of course, it's all mv own fault," she moaned. With the first signs of breaking day, her prayers were answered. 'The poor, little, nearly strangled fellow breathed more easily, and Marilie sensed that intense joy which verges on pain. In the morning she felt like a reborn person; and the tormenting ghost, like an emissary of satan, knew when he had been worsted, and did not return. The next few years bore record of a mother's faithful devotion in the Graham household. Prosperity came in time, and two girls and another boy were added to the happy family. Frugality becomes a life-time habit, if kept up for a number of years. Betty had finished high school before a trip back to her Boston home was contemplated by Marilie. It was finally decided that she should go unaccompanied by her husband, but should take the youngest boy. Betty agreed to keep house for the summer, taking Mother' S place to the best of her ability. So for a month and a half, Marilie enjoyed the dear companionship of her now aging parents and old friends. At the end of this time, she was loath to leave; but her own hearthstone was calling, and she felt that she must go, even though all letters received reiterated the statement that all was well. So she and little Bud again found themselves in a comfortable Pullman, once more bound for home. At the little Canadian station Jim was impatiently awaiting the arrival of his wife and son. When they rounded the last hill which brought the farm buildings into view, the sun was just slipping out of sight over the western horizon. How good it seemed to be back! At sight of the familiar place an exclamation escaped Marilie's lips. "O, you've painted things up; and if I don't declare, you've built an addition to the house. "Yes; thought we'd get it done while you were away," he tried to say it in a matter-of-fact way. Marilie was plainly puzzled that it had all been done with no 
 helpful planning from her; but Jim would offer no further explanation. Whole-heartedly the children welcomed her. After greetings were over, there was an expectant pause and Danny spoke, "Let's show her what we've done." She was ushered into a modernly appointed sitting room and library combined. Somewhat bewildered, Marilie looked from one to another of her family. "You see, Mother,' Betty was explaining, "we all know and realize how you've sacrificed your girlhood dreams so that we might be properly cared for. We appreciate it; and after talking 't all over, Daddy suggested that we fit up this room for your own private study, and we're to see that you have all the time you want to enjoy it and none can enter without your consent." Deeply moved at this symbol of their