GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 617
tions of the upper deep, so human standards of conduct must be tested by divine standards of righteousness. Ethics and theology must be pursued as separate studies, one dealing with doctrines and creeds and the other dealing with codes of conduct; but in life each becomes the complement of the other, one emphasizing duty to God, and the other placing emphasis on duty to humanity. When Joseph the Egyptian slave plead for purity he made his plea in the name of ethics (faithfulness to his master), and in the name of religion (faithfulness to his God.) Gen. 39:9. The Decalogue begins with Theology and ends with Ethics. The Sermon on the Mount combines theology and ethics, making of two laws one complete law providing for the salvation of man. The love of God and the love of man, operating together, create a condition productive of eternal life. The first of the thirteen articles of our faith is purely theological; the last one is sweepingly ethical. Through skepticism and arrogance a person may be led to deny the existence of God; but nothing short of depravity or despair can bring one to a denial of the existence of goodness.
CONSCIENCE
Conscience is our ethical judgment resulting from our knowledge, our mental certainty as to what is right and what is wrong. The race-conscience was born in the Garden of Eden. Its birthday was the date of the fall; up to that time it could consistently be said of the human family, consisting of one couple, as it can still be said of every child, that it is neither moral nor immoral; it is merely non-moral, having no knowledge of good and evil from which to make moral judgment; it is innocent, though not necessarily harmless. Ethical experience brought into existence a moral responsibility which has increased just to the extent that the light of moral truth has been reflected on the mind of mankind; always and ever bright in spots and dim in places. In the main, the difference between the conscience of a cruel race of savages and the conscience of a kind and cultured people is a difference in moral intelligence. Crime is evidence of moral decay; habitual criminals, no matter how physically perfect and intellectually strong they may be, are moral cripples, and the danger of trusting each to carry loads of ethical responsibility becomes at once apparent. Since the conscience of the individual, in its birth and development, follows the course of the race conscience, it is governed by the same laws.


We shall consider seven of the laws governing the conscience. And this examination may help in the every day living of a life that is full of material for character growth, the highest aim of learning.
1. Personal Interest Clouds Conscience: Nations are loath to sign a compact, much less to give a bond, that they will not justify in themselves what they condemn in others. It is quite impossible for parents to see the faults of their own children as clearly as they see the faults of the children of their neighbors. Not many guests can see the hypocrisy of a host as clearly as did Jesus at the feast given by the Pharisee. Even in our dealings with the Lord our ethical vision is sometimes dimmed by the dust of dollars. The "conscientious" payment of tithing might be modified by putting it to the test recommended by Elder James E. Talmage at a general conference. The suggestion was to this effect: Calculate our income to be tithed as though we were going to receive a ten per cent dividend on it at the tithing office. In ethics this personal interest is called bias, and this law governing the influence of self interest is sometimes stated thus: Bias bends moral judgment.
2. Prejudice Pushes Conscience. "Away with the Indian." "The only good Indians are dead ones." These expressions indicate the state of mind that would precede the conscientious persecution and even the killing of the red man. Here the ethical judgment is pushed from an upright attitude by what is known as prejudice, or pre-judgment. A recognition of this law of conscience has led to an almost excessive demand concerning the qualifications of jurors. The formation of an opinion or pre-judgment on the case disqualifies a person as a juror. When Jesus said, "Judge not," he warned against prejudice. And when he declared that men would kill his disciples and think they were doing God's service, he evidently had in mind the power of prejudice in pushing the conscience to a low level.
3. Indulgence Enervates Conscience. Few men are more often quoted than Pope, and few of his statements are more frequently repeated than the following:
"Vice is a monster of so frightful mien As to be hated, needs but to be seen; Yet seen too oft, familiar with her face, We first endure, then pity, then embrace."
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 619
Indulgence is any form of vice; it is to the conscience what hacking on a rock is to a keen knife blade; it dulls if it does not ruin.
4. Custom Controls Conscience. As a rule it is considered right to do what everybody is doing; and sooner or later, with rare exceptions, the conscience of the individual conforms to the conscience of the group whether it be in matters of fashion, business, religion, or recreation. Individual ideality is always affected consciously or unconsciously by the quality of the ideals held up by popular sentiment and community conduct. The problem of keeping the good individual conscience from being swallowed up by a bad community conscience brings us to another law of conscience.
5. Law Lifts Conscience. Law as a rule is the crystallization of the ideality of the best members of society. Law represents ideas as well as emotions. It is the product of deliberation as well as of desires. It calls for a conscience that cuts and cuts deeply when wrong attempts to invade the sacred citadel of right. The Greeks were wont to say: "Hitch your chariots to the stars and let the Gods pull you." We may consistently say: "Fasten your conduct to the law and let the right lift you." When we speak of law we mean good law, law tested by the affirmative answer to the question: Will the world be made better by this law being obeyed.
6. Education Elevates the Conscience. The culture of conscience leads to a condition where wrong-doing is accompanied with so much mental pain that evil will not be indulged in, a condition in which the doing of right will be accompanied with so much pleasure that it dominates our desires and absorbs our efforts. It has been said, "Where ignorance is bliss, it is folly to be wise." In the light of our theology we are committed to saying; ethically, "Where there is opportunity to learn, it is unethical to be ignorant; where a cultivated conscience is attainable, it is wrong to have a crude one." The trustworthiness of conscience depends upon the information behind it. Conscience is one's best guide; but that "best" may be very poor. Conscience must be followed, but it is not infallible; our inner right may be an outer wrong. Our moral judgment should be questioned always when it conflicts with recognized superior intelligence or authority. How quickly Saul questioned his ethical judgment when he


found who Jesus was. With him then it was, not what his conscience would have him do but what Jesus would have him do. If children should be trained in the intelligent revision of conscience to make it fit in with parental conscience or ethical judgment, many a heart ache would be prevented.
7. Passion Paralyzes Conscience. The first criminal pleaded greed and anger as excuses for his crime, but the excuses were not accepted. If at the moment of his infamous act his conscience was paralyzed, he was responsible for its inertness. The over-urge of appetite, the allurements of ultra ambition, the fires of jealousy, the earthquakes of anger?each strikes with paralyzing power at the conscience. Conscience needs and deserves the shelter of self control; character building must fortify against brain storms.
Questions and Problems
1. Illustrate the distinction between religion and ethics.
2. Which of the ten commandments are in the main theological? Which are mostly or wholly ethical?
3. Which part of the Lord's Prayer is strikingly ethical?
4. Show the ethical elements of the thirteen articles of Latter-day Saint faith?
5. What is conscience?
6. State seven of the laws governing conscience.
7. When should we question our conscience?
8. To what extent may we be justly held accountable for the mistakes we make in following our conscience?
9. Illustrate from your own observation the seventh law of conscience mentioned in this lesson.
10. State the procedure suggested for obtaining an unbiased ethical judgment as to what amount we should pay tithing on.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 621