Literature (Third Week in January)
BIOGRAPHY
George Middleton, the son of George and Ida V. Middleton, was born in Patterson, New Jersey, October 27, 1880. He received his B. A. Degree from Columbia University in 1902. In October, 1911, he married Miss Fola LaFollette of Madison, Wisconsin. Mr. Middleton is the author of the following plays: "The Cavalier," 1902; "The Wife's Strategy," 1905; "The Sinner," 1907; "The House of a Thousand Candles," 1908; "Rosalind at Red Gate," 1910; "The Enemy," 1911; "The Prodigal Judge," 1913; "Criminals," 1914; "Hit-the-Trail-Holliday," 1915; "Collusion," 1916; "Polly with a Past," 1917; "The Cave Girl," 1919; "Adam and Eva," 1919; "The Light of the World," 1920; "Cercle," 1922; "The Unknown Lady," 1923; "The Other Rose," 1923; "The Road Together," 1924; "Accused," 1925; "Blood Money," 1927. These plays have been produced throughout the United States. Mr. Middleton is also the author of a number of one-act plays produced at various little theatres. Some of Mr. Middleton's best books are: Nowadays, Embers, Tradition, Possession, The Road Together, and Masks. Mr. Middleton is a frequent contributor to magazines on subjects relating to drama and literature. He has been literary editor of LaFollette's Weekly since 1912. At the present time he is president of the Dramatists' Guild of Authors' League of America.
NOWADAYS?BY GEORGE MIDDLETON
The plot of Nowadays centers around Diana Dawson, the daughter of a family consisting of a father, a mother, a son and Diana. The play opens at the Christmas Season. In the home Mrs. Dawson, assisted by Nellie, the maid, is putting the Christmas decorations in place when she is interrupted by the entrance of her daughter who has been in New York for two years struggling to satisfy a soul's craving to become a sculptor. Mr. Dawson, who is a conservative, thinks Diana should stay at home and assist her mother. The mother, on the contrary, who had the same yearning as a young woman to express herself in art, is not only in favor of Diana working in New York, but has gone one step further by supplying her with financial help her father refuses to give her because she is a daughter. Mrs. Dawson is dressing paper dolls and painting their clothes with an elegance
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 623
that gives them market value. The money obtained is sent to Diana to assist her in her work.
The editor of the town paper is Peter Rowe, a man who has recognized Diana's talent and has encouraged her to realize her gift. They are good friends and Diana takes advantage of this fact to have Peter see that her baggage is brought to her home safely. Before he arrives she has had a conversation with her father, who believes that she has given up her foolish notion of living in New York and has come home to stay. She assures him that she has not and surprises him by telling him that after all, he has had something to do with her desire to seek a center where she can study. The following dialogue takes place:
Diana (Not taking him too seriously): Why, daddy, how could I stay at home when it was you who made me go?
Dawson (Bewildered): Me?
Diana (Whimsically): Yes. You and the turtle.
Dawson: The turtle?
Sam: She's crazy, all right.
Diana (Fancifully throughout): Yes, the dear, dear turtle. I've laughed so many times when I think of what little things determine our lives. Do you remember that day?long ago?when I was a real little lady, and Sammy wasn't such a gentleman? Of course you don't. Nellie was sick and mother had taken Sammy to the dentist for something and you had to stay home and take care of me. You ought to remember that day: you said you had such a headache when it was over. You were so happy taking a woman's place that you fell asleep from exhaustion. That was my chance. Destiny opened the door and I went out into the garden. It was all flowers and mud. And, daddy, there on the path I saw a turtle: a poor, lonely little turtle; oh, so lonely I felt sorry for it?because you had mother and Sammy and me, and the little turtle hadn't anybody. Somehow I wanted the turtle to have some little turtles so she wouldn't be so lonely. You see, you ought to have told me where turtles and babies came from.
Later Peter Rowe puts in an appearance much to Diana's delight. Peter is patiently waiting for a moment when he can be alone with Diana, for he has something of importance to say to her.
Diana: Why don't you come to New York?
Peter: People see nothing but electric lights there. Here occasionally we can see the stars.
Diana (Going to him): What's the real reason you won't come?
Peter (Eyeing her): Some day, when you're a great success, I'll tell you.


Diana: I'll wager you won't even then. But I've half a mind to be a success just for that.
Peter: I'll wait.
Diana: Won't you tell me now? (He shakes his head.) Won't you tell me a wee little bit of something now?
Peter: Yes, Diana. One of the reasons I drove out?I almost forgot it, seeing you again. Come to the window. (He pulls aside the curtain.) Look across the lake. See it in the moonlight, three miles across? That's gone up since you went away.
Diana: The dome of the new capitol?
Peter: Yes. The architect had a sense of humor. Made it so beautiful every time even I pass it I feel like taking off my hat and praying. Tough on the politicians.
Diana: Do you feel as though you were praying when you see something beautiful?
Peter: Yes; but I do a heap of cussing.
Diana (Mock seriously): Father's terra-cotta has damns written all over it.
Peter (Pointing): There's a vacant pedestal in front of the approach?like an altar. And a statue is to go on it.
Diana: A statue? Is this where I come in?
Peter: You've got me. It's to be symbolic.
Diana: Something everybody will disagree about?
Peter: Yesterday "The Times" heard they'd decided to have an open competition; secret of course, you know. I thought it would be a fine thing for this burg if "the female of the species"?
Diana (Joyfully): Oh, Peter, wouldn't it be a joke if?
Peter (Quickly): An awful joke on your father.
Diana: But wouldn't mother be happy!
Peter: By the way, it was her old friend, Oliver Hardman, who told me. He's coming out to see her tomorrow, he said. But you mustn't tell him your intentions because he's been appointed on the Legislative Committee as judge. He's down to get a line on it. I pumped him a bit. I know what he thinks appropriate.
Diana: What?
Peter: Something they can call "Democracy." No relation to any of our present parties.
Diana (With a flash, glancing at the newspaper Mrs. Dawson has left on the table): "Democracy! (She gazes rapt before her.) I've got it now. I see it, don't you?
Peter: Never have yet in this country.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 625
Diana: That's it!
Peter: Put me wise.
Diana: Oh, I won't tell even you till I see if there's room for it. (Significantly.) But it's got a woman in it.
Mrs. Dawson wishes to return to New York with her daughter and share her attic that is located up five flights of stairs. She tries to explain to her husband that having made a fortune they should go into the city where, with Diana, they may enjoy the art of New York, but her husband does not see things that way. It has never entered his mind that his wife's housekeeping has grown monotonous and wearisome throughout the years. Much to his surprise she takes a firm stand and goes with her daughter, leaving her husband at home. With his son and wife and a baby that apparently is born during her absence. Every week Mrs. Dawson writes to her husband urging him to come to her but he stubbornly refuses. After an interval of months Mrs. Dawson receives a reply to one of her letters in which Mr. Dawson says: "Belle, I am coming to see you. You are as stubborn as I am."
Mrs. Dawson: "I wonder if your father knows I just couldn't touch his check."
Diana: "Of course he knows."
Mrs. Dawson (Going to her drawer and taking out a legal document): Every time I need a good laugh I look at the statement he drew up when I came here with you. (Reading) Bill of Service. One wife at $25.00 a month for twenty-five years?exclusive of gifts for clothes, food and masculine protection, $7,500, deposited to Belle Dawson's credit for whims, foolishness, and Paris.
Into this somewhat embarrassing situation Mr. Hardman comes, who receives the following greeting from Diana:
Diana: If ever you want to find out your real friends live up five flights of stairs without an elevator.
During the winter Mrs. Dawson has enjoyed her daughter very much. Diana has completed her design for the capitol building and submitted it to the committee. The presence of Mr. Hardman, who is a member of the committee, brings to mind the statue, so Mrs. Dawson very naturally asks about the decision of the committee. Mr. Hardman, enjoying the mother's eagerness, says: I have two surprises for you, Diana. And then he remarks, You have won. The news is so overwhelming that Diana doubts it, but the


mother, getting the full significance of Mr. Hardman's remarks, exclaims: Dearest, you've won, you've won! Oh, my girl, I knew it, I knew it! Diana weeps for joy and Hardman, placing his hand on Mrs. Dawson, says tenderly, Let her. When Diana has regained some of her self-possession she says: Forgive me for seeming like a foolish girl. The mother talks of what this success will mean to her daughter and says that she, too, has great satisfaction for, says she: I haven't failed in my motherhood. You are beautiful all through. I'm so happy you have what has passed me by, so happy.
Mr. Hardman (Tenderly): Belle, I'd give up all my position and reputation to be able to talk like that to a daughter of my own.
Mrs. Dawson: You've missed something, too?
Mr. Hardman: A great deal. Did you ever notice how everybody in the world is wanting something the other fellow has?
Diana: The statue seems so unimportant all of a sudden.
Mrs. Dawson: There now. I've robbed you of the joy of success.
Diana: No. Only how can any artist in the world ever create more beauty than life itself makes?
Mr. Hardman: If you feel that, you know the first great secret of success.
Then comes Diana's second surprise which is a visit from Peter Rowe. As Hardman opens the door Peter exclaims, Diana. He stands looking only at her as she takes his hand at the same time repeating his name. Finally Mrs. Dawson remarks: I'm here, too, Peter. The conversation drifts on and Diana, knowing Peter's devotion to her and realizing that he has not proposed because he feels that he cannot provide adequately for her, breaks into the situation by telling him that with a prize of $25,000 she can pay for the marble for the statue and yet there will be sufficient left for them to live in Paris as husband and wife and that it will give him time to complete his novel. She confesses to him that she got the idea for the statue while talking with him. Yes. Democracy. I got the thought that day when you were by my side. It was the result of all we had talked over. I tried to catch it in marble. A man and a woman marching side by side, step by step. I've broken away from the old form that made man lead far ahead with the woman trailing behind.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 627
Peter: You put them on the same line.
Diana: Both looking far ahead.
Peter: With hope in their eyes.
Diana: Yet as I modeled them both, I felt they were not complete without?without?
Peter: The child.
Diana: See how it's carried between them. Not the mother alone, but the father, too, holding the little hands as they climb up the incline?.
Peter: Together.
Diana: Together.
Peter: It's wonderful.
Diana: Peter, doesn't that tell you all my heart is asking? Shall I be kept from my right to that because you haven't a lot of money when I have enough now to start our lives together? What right had you to be silent when it concerned my life, too? Shall you and I waste our years of youth because you wouldn't speak? Peter, we belong to each other. I want you. I love you.
Then they tell the mother they have become engaged. They wish her to accompany them to Paris but she replies: I stayed by, waiting till you two were ready. I didn't know when you'd fix it up. You were both so foolish about it. I knew I'd have to lose you, Diana. I've gone as far as a mother can go with her girl. It will come to you both, some day. I've held on longer than most mothers.
Betty has come along with Peter Rowe to New York. Mrs. Dawson hunts her up and learns from her that Sam has left her, and that she needs help with the baby. Mrs. Dawson realizes that there is work for her to do in helping to rear her son's child. Betty says if she can only grow to be like Diana she will be perfectly happy, but that she cannot do the job herself, that she needs Mrs. Dawson to assist her. At that moment Mr. Dawson knocks at the door. As he enters he says: You win, Belle. We're going to Paris. To which Mrs. Dawson replies, smiling sweetly, You and I are going back home, Will.
Problems Presented in the Play
Women are justified in developing their God-given talents provided they recognize their righteous obligations toward their family and their home. The playwright's business is to present the problem, not to solve it. If he presents his problem adequately and artistically he may be said to be successful. He is under no obligation to answer or solve the problem. That is the business of society to whom he appeals.


Questions
1. What periods of a woman's life, provided she marries, are freest to do work apart from her home or outside of her home.
2. Name some women you know of who have made worthwhile contributions to life in one way or another before marriage.
3. Name some women who have made noted contributions to life in one way or another, after marriage.
4. In what ways have modern inventions assisted women in having more time to develop their talents, or give service apart from or out of the home?
5. Do you think that nowadays a woman can rear her family, take care of her husband, and develop the talents with which God has blessed her for the development of herself and the betterment of the world? If so, why? If not, why?
6. Discuss any phase of this play that appeals to you as being worthy of discussion.
LESSON IV