[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | May | Issue: 23 | Title: NATIONAL WOMAN’S RELIEF | Author: Unknown]

NATIONAL WOMAN’S RELIEF
SOCIETY.
	Although this Society is philanthropic
and charitable in character, yet during the
last few years the tendency has been in a
larger degree towards practical measures in
caring for the needy and unfortunate, real-
zing it is better and more uplifting to cre-
ate work and give employment (whenever
possible) than to bestow charity. With
this object in view the society fosters in-
dustries suitable to its circumstances and
practicable to localities. The silk industry
is well adapted to many parts of this west-
ern country, and Utah silk especially is of
fine texture and durable quality. In places
remote from manufactories, reeling and
weaving silk from native cocoons has been
made quite remunerative. In newly settled
districts where sheep raising is the princi-
pal source of revenue, carding, spinning
and weaving (as in early pioneer days) is
helpful to the working classes, and is en-
couraged by the society. There are many
women who love housewifery even to the
minutest detail of primitive work, and who
spin, and weave and declare the stockings
made at home (even silk ones) wear much
longer than those manufactured by mach-
nery.
	Since February, 1895, when our last re-
port was made to the Council in Washing-
ton, D. C., considerable material work has
been done; more halls for meetings and
society purposes, houses for the aged and
helpless, also granaries have been built and
dedicated with appropriate ceremonies for
the purpose designed, also large quantities
of grain have been stored for a time of need.
Mulberry trees have been planted on land
owned by the society, and various other
improvements made in the interest and wel-
fare of the organization. Quite recently
the society has established a system of
charitable nursing which is working ad-
mirably. Salt Lake county, which in its
limit contains fifty three branches with
over three thousand members, has taken
the initiative in this matter of trained
nurses by regular physicians, under the
auspices of the Relief Society, with the
understanding that the nurses give a cer-
tain proportion of time and service as com-
pensation for their education, under the
direction of a competent superintendent
who will supervise the entire corps of
educated nurses. Each branch society
will have on hand emergency boxes con-
taining such articles as are essential for use
in the sick room, and will also furnish
medicine and nourishment as required.
Other counties and localities it is expected
will follow this example until throughout
this benevolent society there will be no lack
of trained nurses for the sick who are not
able to pay high prices for professional help.
	This society is so perfectly organized that
it is comparatively easy to carry out any
plan formulated by the General Board,
though each respective branch society has
control of its own local affairs and property;
having its own board of officers under the
supervision of a Stake Board similarly or-
ganized, and to which branches make regular
semi-annual reports and the Stake Board of
officers make annual reports to the General
Board; thus there are divisions and sub-
divisions of the society, which consists at
present of thirty thousand members (30,000)
and more than six hundred branches (600)
scattered through this and other countries,
and on the islands of the sea.

[Column 2]
	The annual report for the year 1898
from January 1, to December 31, gives
14,400 meetings held, 180 conferences, be-
sides fairs for exhibition of various articles,
concerts, entertainments and lectures of a
helpful and instructive character. Women
speakers as missionaries duly authorized to
teach and to preach visit the organizations
in their meetings and conferences from
time to time, and through this means and
the official organ of the society, the Wo-
man’s Exponent, also by correspondence,
the officers at headquarters are kept en rap-
port with the affairs of the entire organiza-
tion. The society has in contemplation,
and is making preparation to build (as soon
as sufficient means is obtained by voluntary
donation) in Salt Lake City a large hall for
society purposes, meetings, conferences,
congresses, lectures, etc., with a bureau of
information and committee rooms.
	The society has been and is a veritable
school of instruction in higher methods of
advancement along the lines of progress,
and always in the foremost rank of social
and moral reform and the betterment of the
human race, never, however, losing sight
of its first main object, the best care of the
sick, the needy, the afflicted and the un-
fortunate; to visit the widow and the father-
less, to administer comfort and consolation
as well as temporal relief to physical wants,
to see that none are left to suffer within its
reach; to encourage habits of industry and
economy; to give a special care to those
who have not had proper training for life
and its experiences, and to care sacredly for
the dying and the dead; to minister in
tenderness to the lonely (however lowly)
when death is near, and to comfort the sor-
rowing and afflicted in times of grief and
mourning; and to perform all these kindly
deeds in a spirit of grace and heavenly
charity, in fact to cultivate a higher stand-
ard of excellence, mentally, morally and
spiritually, also to observe the laws of life
and health so wisely and well, that future
generations born under better conditions
may even live, not only a hundred years,
but to the age of a tree, as has been
prophesied.
					E. B. W.


The rooms now occcupied by the General
Society Daughters of the Revolution as
headquaters in the Presbyterian Building
are fitted with paneled oak and inlaid
floors, and are decorated in buff and blue,
the colors of the society.


