[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | May | Issue: 23 | Title: SOCIETY. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

SOCIETY.

	The General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall in this city on Saturday, April 8,
1899, commencing at 10 a. m., President
Zina D. H. Young presiding. Presidents
Jane S. Richards and Bathsheba W. Smith
were also present.

[Column 2]
	Meeting opened with singing “Now
let us rejoice in the day of salvation.”
Prayer by President M. Isabella Horne.
Singing, “We thank Thee O, God for a
prophet.”
	President Young gave a few words of
welcome, rejoiced to see the dear faces
of the sisters who had come so far to enjoy
the blessing of the conference; testified that
the spirit of God had been with His ser-
vants to reveal His holy will to His 
people, and the society had the utmost
reason to be thankful and appreciate the 
blessings bestowed upon them in these
vales of the mountains.
	Roll called and minutes read and ac-
cepted, after which the secretary also read
the “In Memoriam” of the late President
Sarah M. Kimball, as recorded in the
Society Record.
	Prest. Bathsheba W. Smith bade all
welcome, prayed that we might have a
good time and our voices be so strong that
all in the house could hear, was glad to see
so large a congregation; the society was
for the sick, the needy and unfortunate,
if we lived up to the requirements of 
the organization we would accomplish
a great and good work.
	Prest. Young then asked all sisters in the
audience over forty years of age to stand,
and it was a great majority of all assembled;
she then asked all over eighty to stand and
five sisters arose; she then spoke concerning
Joseph the Prophet and the key of knowl-
edge turned for women. Sister Zina spoke
lovingly of the late Sister Kimball, one
of the honored members of the society, who
had passed away since our last conference,
wished her to be remembered; they had
been girls together in the days of Kirtland,
some of those associated with them in
the Church had lost the faith, even some of
the “Twelve,” she was proud of the faith-
ful sisters, and added, “The Lord will
not withhold His blessings from the faith-
ful, if we ask in faith,, there are many
mothers in Israel before me today, and 
may God help us all to be faithful. Amen.”
	Prest. M. A. P. Hyde in a few brief
remarks reported Sanpete Stake, and al-
luded to the faithfulness of the sisters there,
and afterwards spoke in the gift of tongues
which was interpreted by Dr. E. S. Barney.
	Dr. Margaret C. Roberts next gave a
report of the nurses class which she had
been teaching under the auspices of the
Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake, and
which had been a success and so help-
ful among the sick and suffering since they
had graduated in their training and com-
menced practise.
	Mrs. Priscilla J. Riter, superintendent of
the nurses’ class, then read a written ad-
dress giving much of the work of the
sick room in detail, which quite inter-
ested the audience in the systematic work.
	Prest. M. Isabella Horne thought there
was a larger number of sisters in attendance
than at any previous conference, in speak-
ing of our associating together and trying
to help each other she quoted the old saying
“The rebuke of a friend is better than
the kiss of an enemy.” Thought
we should not settle down and think 
all was well with us, Bishop Hunter had
said he could see a lethargy was coming
over the people, we must not fall asleep, we
must renew our faith and wake up to
the present conditions. Prest. Wilford
Woodruff had said “The sword was un-
sheathed, and the word had gone forth,”

[Column 3]
as foretold in the holy scriptures; obedi-
ence is heaven’s first law and order is
the second, we must abide by these, we
must examine and purify ourselves; let
us as a society store up wheat, the time 
is coming when we shall need it, and
the day spoken of when he who will 
not take up the sword against his neighbor
must needs flee to Zion for safety. Sis-
ter Horne added, she did not want to be
condemned for not keeping her covenants,
“we are all weak and frail, we want
more love and stronger faith in the Gospel.”
	Prest. Jane S. Richards spoke a few
words, alluded to the nursing class, what 
good they would accomplish, approved
of the work they were doing, was glad
to see so many present, while she was
speaking of Sister Riter coming forward
had thought of her father, hoped other
young women would be induced to take
part in the benevolent and charitable work,
it would be a blessing to them if they
would, she felt to have charity for all
who stood in need of assistance, no matter
who they were, they were all our Father's
children, the Savior said do good to those
who despitefully use you; we must have
greater love, love to do for all who are 
needy, sorrowing or unfortunate; it gave
her great joy to be of some service in
the great work.
	Conference adjourned till 2 p m. with
singing Doxology and benediction by Dr.
R. B. Pratt.
	Afternoon session: Meeting opened by
singing “O, say what is truth.” Prayer
by Prest. Rachel R. Grant. Singing “How
firm a foundation ye Saints of the Lord.”
	The first Stake called was Alberta, Can-
ada, reported by Sister Thomas, who spoke
of their good president, Sister Mary L.
Woolf, and of Sister Zina Y. Card as
a pillar of faith among the Saints there,
and referred to the sick being healed when
the sisters anointed and prayed for them;
they were also doing what they could to
assist in erecting a building in this city for
the General Society, bore a good testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
	Prest. Young exhibited a piece of natural
colored silk made in St. George, and urged
putting out mulberry trees and raising silk
worms, that we may have silk to wear and
to dispose of, she had always tried to pro-
mote the silk industry and knew it would
prove a source of wealth if the people
would take hold of it and be diligent and
persevere.
	Prest. Ann C. Woodbury, St. George
Stake, related much in detail of the silk
industry in that locality, they had three
looms put up to weave silk that were doing
well, and wanted to purchase a ribbon
loom, they could make 50 per cent more on
ribbons, they expected now to do scouring
and coloring and not have to send it East
to be done; this industry will give employ-
ment to the young people that they may
earn their own living. We are told to orna-
ment ourselves with the workmanship
of our own hands; we use the Japanese
 reels. The bounty on cocoons has been
a great blessing to old and young. In
reporting the Stake the speaker said, “We
have 18 branches and 614 members 
enrolled, we travel 400 miles to visit and
have no railroad, we go 100 miles to visit
three settlements; the railroad is in pro-
gress of building now; the Lord is opening
our way, Sister McDonald is making artifi-
cial flowers, very beautiful, and we have a 
good shoe factory and other industries.”


[Column 1]
	Sister Mary E. Cluff, one of the “aids”
in St. Joseph Stake, Arizona, spoke for the
Relief Society of that Stake, said she
thought their president and counselors
equal to the work, and the society was
in good condition, everything greatly for-
warded under Prest. Kimball, were going
to build an elevator for grain; they were
all trying to be Latter-day Saints, and
to start home industries.
	Maricopa Stake, Arizona, represented
by Sister Bergen, an “aid,” she was proud
of the society, they had 6 branches, had
lately been reorganized and felt they should
be able to advance, their’s was a semi-
tropical climate, they had not been able
to keep wheat from weevil until the Indians
taught them how to keep it in mud huts
sealed up. Prest. Hakes had been very
sick and could not come to the conference,
they had a new branch started, the “Pine.”
“The climate is two months in advance
of Utah, grain growing verdure every-
where, it is a good country for silk, we
have mulberry trees planted and intend
to push the silk industry.” Referred to
the nursing class in which she was much
interested, thought all the branches should
have the instruction, it is a labor of love,
had herself some experience in nursing.
	Bannock Stake, Idaho, was represented
by the secretary, Miss Millie Campbell, the
president, Mrs. Mary A. Call, had visited
Salt Lake at the October conference, in one
society in their county the president had
only been absent from the meeting once in
seven years, speaker bore a good testimony,
felt the Stake officers were new to the work
as they were only recently called to preside.
	Box Elder Stake was represented by
Prest. Susanna P. Booth, had been recently
reorganized because of the death of the
beloved president, Sister Olivia Wider-
borg. Sister Booth made an excellent brief
report and expressed a desire to press on-
ward in the good work in which so many
noble women were engaged, and bore a
good testimony.
	Fremont Stake, Idaho, reported by
Elizabeth Atkinson, “aid,” as the president
could not come, the president and aids had
visited all the Stake and encouraged the
sisters to be diligent, had over 1,700 bush-
els of grain stored up, and were striving to
live good and pure lives devoted to good
works.
	Los Angeles branch, California, reported
by Prest. Elizabeth Woollacott, the society
was first organized by Prest. E. H. Nye,
and it had done much to strengthen and
help the sisters. “Our teachers go out and
visit families two by two, we live far apart,
but we are progressing and gathering in
some means, we have had no poor only
exceptional cases, and therefore we have
used our means to purchase books, etc.”
They had a bazar and accumulated some
money with the disposal of articles; good
people have come to a knowledge of the
work, she had herself been a member of
the Church 48 years, bore a faithful testi-
mony.
	San Francisco branch represented by
Sister Harriet Nye, who gave a very good
account of the work in that city, and
she spoke of the society organized in Sacra-
mento and San Diego. The speaker re-
ferred to the Mission house in San Francis-
co as a home and resting place for the
Saints who visit that city and for the
traveling Elders, and spoke enthusiastically
of the joy she felt in her labors in minister-
ing to those who come from time to time;

[Column 2]
she delighted in the work of the Lord and
in this labor of love.
	Prest. Lucy Grant reported Woodruff
Stake, it had only been organized last June,
1898, she had visited some of the branches
and was kindly received, she felt very new
to the work, but was anxious to do her
duty, and had found all the sisters willing
to assist and help the work along.
	Prest. Eliza Oram of Pocatello Stake,
Idaho, stated that the Stake was organized
last August, had visited all the branches
and found there was a good average at-
tendance of members, and there were many
good, faithful sisters, they had given liber-
ally to missionaries, had stored considerable
wheat and owned some granaries, they had
responded in four wards to the ten cent
fund and more would give, some sisters
live ten miles from a post office; she desired
to take advice and counsel from those who
presided, felt all the poor were well taken
care of.
	Wayne Stake, represented by Sister Julia
Blackburn they were encouraging young
women to join the society, they were
planting thousands of mulberry trees and
cuttings, caring for the poor and for the
sick, storing grain, building society halls;
they had many widows among them, their
president was a very humble woman who
visited the sick and all who needed comfort,
gave an excellent report. 
	Apostle F. M. Lyman who was present
in the stand responded to President Young’s
invitation to address the sisters; he said
many excellent things and gave much
valuable counsel, which was greatly appre-
ciated by the sisters who labor in the
society the speaker expressed his pleasure
in meeting with the sisters and said he, felt
it was the first and choicest section of the
Church; he had met with 74 sisters in
Tooele on Relief Society day, March 17,
and felt the day would be held sacred in
the future, thought every married wo-
man should be enrolled in the Relief So-
ciety, there should be no exception, we
should make the society popular, it is a
great thing to be registered, this society
ought to be so popular that not one woman
should be left off, there are many engaged
in this work now, but there is room for
many more, and we want to see
as many as can possibly be enlisted in
this good work and the Lord will bless
them, follow after the Priests and Prophets,
“we love the sisters and we love the Relief
Society, no section of the Church receives
such commendation as does the Relief
Society, I find it so in all my travels.”
Apostle Lyman said he came laden with
the blessing of President Lorenzo Snow
to Sister Zina, and all the sisters, they
have his love and confidence, the speaker
then blest all assembled in the name of
Jesus.
	Sister L. L. Greene Richards spoke of
her visit in Chicago, her meeting with
the sisters of the Relief Society, wanted
the sisters to remember them in their pray-
ers, Sister Rosa Smith of Nephi is presi-
dent of the Relief Society in Chicago.
	The secretary, Sister E. B. Wells, gave
out some notices of meetings, etc., and
spoke of the Relief Society in Omaha in
Denver, in Pueblo and in St. John’s,
Kansas, she also presented at the request of
the president of Panguitch Stake, the resig-
nation of Sister Barbara Myers, president
of the Relief Society of that Stake, it
was moved and seconded that she be
honorably released and that the assembly

[Column 3]
give her a vote of thanks for her faith-
ful service for many years, the vote was
unanimous. The speaker also alluded
briefly to the recent visit of the sisters
to the National Council of Women in
Washington, especially the Committee
work.
	Prest. Richards felt we had been greatly
blest in the conference, rejoiced in the
reports but realized we never had time
to hear from all, which she regreted, would
like a conference of several days, that
all might have a chance to speak, especially,
the distant ones, Sister Young feels she
is a mother to all the Relief Society. Sister
Richards sustained Brother Lyman in say-
ing all women should join the Relief
Society, young women should join, they
need it, they will learn to be liberal and
charitable in this organization; it need
not interfere with the young ladies meet-
ing in their own association the speaker
approved of boys attending these meetings,
then when they go on missions they can
give instructions. “We do not know what
is before us; I would rather feed my spirit
than my body, feel rested after a good
meeting.” Regreted that we could not
continue the conference two or three days
and get all the young folks to join us;
spoke lovingly to those from a distance.
	Prest. Young blest the sisters and prayed
they might have retentive memories, and
said, “May we be fit temples for the Holy
Spirit to dwell in, carry home the spirit of
the Lord, be punctual in your daily prayers
and you will never grow weary in the
good work, and may you live to the age of
a tree. Amen.”
	Conference adjourned until next Oc-
tober. Singing, “O, my Father Thou that
dwellest.” Benediction by Prest. Sarah J.
Cannon.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


Julia Marlow is to speak at the meeting
of the Woman’s International Council in
London, on “Women on the Stage.”


