[Vol50 | October 1963 | Page 740 | Fiction | Kiss of the Wind — Chapter 4 | ]
The Relief society Magazine OCTOBER 1963 VOLUME 50 NUMBER 10 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford Sixcr time immemorial men's thoughts have been directed, their emotions swayed, their lives influenced, and their actions stirred or curtained by the expressed thoughts, and experiences lived by others. Real thinkers are the small ml nority, and the followers in thought and act are the great majority. People are changed by what they hear and what they read. Alexander Smith says: "Books are a finer world within a world." And we heartily agree if he refers to the "best books." While there have been books and records all through the ages, they are far more abundant today, and even a person of moderate means may have an adequate library in his own home and have access to numerous books and magazines through public libraries which boast millions of copies. There is little excuse for even the poorest folk in our day to be without good reading material. In pioneer days written material was at a premium. It is recorded that Abraham Lincoln, the American Emancipator, was so hungry for reading material that he walked long distances to borrow a book and then to return it; and he used charcoal to write on smooth wood and a knife to whittle off the writing. In those early days when men were fighting the natural elements, trying to get a foothold in the soil and to establish themselves in virgin territory, their long hours were spent in manual labor, and they had 724 The Power of Books Elder Spencer W. Kimball of the Council of the Twelve and Camilla E.. Kimball neither the time nor the books. But today what an opportunity! Laboring hours have been reduced and leisure time increased! Numerous leisure hours have been made available to men. It is noticeable that many use these extra hours for fun and pleasure. Certainly an increased part of it could profitably be used in gaining knowledge and _ culture through the reading of good books. Numerous people fail to take advantage of these opportunities. Many people spend hours in planes with only cursory glancing at magazines, and in the train or bus, time is spent "sitting and thinking," and in many cases, "just sitting," when there could be such a constructive program of reading. People in beauty parlors, professional offices, waiting rooms, and elsewhere waste precious hours thumbing through outdated magazines when much valuable reading could be done in these islands of time. For example, the Bible can be read in a year's time with but a little time each day. Good reading habits should be formed in early childhood. Since women, generally, have the greater responsibility in training the children they should make a study of their facilities. We might ask each mother: Is there a dearth of good books in your home? Is there sufficient reading material of good quality and high standard for each child, so that each will read the appropriate books as he grows up — those books which will whet his taste for good things, stimulate his ambition, properly stir his emotions, and increase his love for the beautiful and proper things, and develop his faith and build his character? Do you mothers read to your children to start them in their hunger for the good things? There are mothers who read the stories of the scriptures regularly to their children who look forward to this delightful family experience. Axx you careful in the selection of the books which go into your home library so that only the clean and the good are available to the children? Are you as careful with the diet of reading material for their minds as you are of the food which goes daily into their bodies? How few children would get a balanced diet if left to their own fickle appetites. And it is in these homes where parents are careless that there is found pornographic reading material and salacious pictures and stories to stuff the minds with lewdness and filth. If children establish their standards from either rude persons or crude books and pictures, society has suffered an irreparable loss, whereas it has a right to expect from each of its members a worthwhile contribution toward peace, joy, and progress. Out of the vast amount of reading material available there is something exactly to fit the needs of every child at every age from the slightly retarded to the most brilliant child, and all in between at their own vocabulary level. 'The wise parents will supply the proper books and stimulate their reading. Someone has said: "I no more THE POWER OF BOOKS remember the books I have read, than the meals I have eaten, but they make me what I am." Every person we meet makes a contribution to our lives, good or bad. Every book can influence the life of the person who reads it. The parents' responsibility, then, is to make certain that the influence is good. While the body is sacred and vital, the mind and spirit are of greater importance. Even in the beginning there was the written word, for Adam and Eve were conscious of the need for the development of the mind, "And by them their children were taught to read and write, having a language which was pure and undefiled" (Moses 6:6). The prophets were faithful in recording their predictions and warnings, and the patriarchs in making accurate accounts of the movements of the people, their human events, their genealogies, their biographies, and the world events. Their smaller world was limited in communication and transportation, but, coming from them, we have the precious records of the ages with their lessons of life accurately depicted. Whether they wrote on paper, papyrus, clay tablets, on stone or on metal, the political and _ spiritual leaders made faithful records and, to them, we are indebted for the great mass of worthwhile information that is available to us today. I. THE museums of London, Cairo, Bagdad, Paris, and elsewhere are numerous clay tablets and metal records preserved from the antiquities. Far down in the bowels of the 


 earth in the Valley of the Kings near Luxor in Egypt, the walls of the tombs are covered with colored writings preserved through the ages. From the earth in New York came precious metal plates of gold recording histories and biographies and events in the old and new worlds for about 2600 years. How fortunate we are to have all these records! In our own day, the printing presses of all the more developed countries run incessantly pouring out new reading material. We are advised that books are published in the United States, alone, at the rate of more than a thousand per month. With the millions already in libraries and new books every few minutes, there is little justification for one in our enlightened groups being unread. Most people, and especially children, need guidance as to what they should read. Children will generally follow the patterns of their parents. The Lord has indicated this when he said: And as all have not faith, seek ye diligently and teach one another words of wisdom; yea, seek ye out of the best books, words of wisdom, seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D & C 88:118). Happy is the family whose members have learned to make good books their companions. The need of guidance by parents, teachers, and Church organizations is apparent, that the minds of children be properly stirred and fed. One is literally what he thinks, and his thinking is greatly influenced by what he reads. Someone gave us this: Thought in the mind hath made us. What we are 726 By thought was wrought and built. If a man's mind Hath evil thoughts, pain comes on him, as comes The wheel the ox behind. If one endure In purity of thought, joy follows him As his own shadow — sure. The Lord would have us know the gospel truths first, but would not limit us to the scriptures. He has said: Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me (John 5:39). He has also indicated that our reading should be of a general nature, including material in every legitimate field. As we yearn and plan and program our lives to become gods, it is apparent that we must have full knowledge of all the fields which affect a world. The Lord has made this clear: And I give unto you a commandment that ye shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom. Teach ye diligently and my grace shall attend you, that you may be instructed more perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand; Of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad; the wars and the perplexities of the nations, and the judgments which are on the land; and a knowledge also of countries and of kingdoms — That ye may be prepared in all things when I shall send you again to magnify the calling whereunto I have called you, and the mission with which I have commissioned you (D & C 88:77-80). It would seem from the foregoing that the Lord expected that the people should have access to a wide variety of information to give them breadth and depth in their lives.. Things in heaven" might be the study of astronomy and related subjects. 'To know and appreciate the wonders of the heavens cannot but increase our appreciation of God and his great wisdom and power. With all the study of the ages, men are but beginning to comprehend this vast science. As parents we should strive to learn about the wonders of the universe and teach our children of them by putting into their hands books suited to their age and development, which will encourage and help them to understand these limitless creations of God.. And in the earth." This echoes the commandment given to Adam to replenish the earth and subdue it. The Lord has said also: The fulness of the earth is yours. Yea, all things which come of the earth. Are made for the benefit and the use of man. And it pleaseth God that he hath given all these things unto man (D & C 59:16-20). To understand the soil and the seasons would be a fascinating study, and every home should have a bit of garden even if it can be had only in a window box, as is so often seen in European apartments. This can furnish a limited opportunity for learning in this field and the appreciation of it. "Subdue the earth" could include THE POWER OF BOOKS engineering in damming of streams for power, irrigation and flood control, dredging waterways for navigation, bridging of rivers and ocean inlets for better transportation, drilling of wells, and making canals for more beneficial use of water, and numerous other services for the subduing of the earth. The sciences of biology, geology, and other ologies teach us about the earth and its formation and its inhabitants; oceanography is the study of the elements "under the earth." "Things which have been'"' invites us to delve into history which can be a fascinating hobby and a lifetime challenge. Current events or history in the making should cause us great concern and careful study. The selection of dependable and unbiased reporting should influence our source material. "A knowledge of countries... And kingdoms..." will be found in a study of political and physical geography, languages, and customs. This should help us to understand people better, that we may live more harmoniously together. The National Geographic Magazine is a good example of many available magazines which furnish excellent, helpful source material about the earth and all its peoples; and one is well read in this field who captures and absorbs the extensive material there afforded. It is not seasonal like a newspaper, but extends its usable life into long years and is dependable as a blueprint or road map of countries one wishes to visit. Television, radio, travel, and countless well-written books of other lands also help. The Lord directs us to study all potentials of the elements 


 of nature, and all scientific developments. "Things which are at home" might be an' invitation to study home building, homemaking, furnishing, child psychology and child training, marital felicity, and such. "Wars and perplexities of the nations' are our great concern since the world is now a single community, and perplexities afflicting one people affect and influence all lives. Newspapers and magazines keep us posted on these matters, and to keep aware of world happenings may help us to avoid entangling alliances and difficulties. The Lord indicates that "the fulness of the earth is yours," and he goes on, saying: Yea, all things which come of the earth, in the season thereof, are made for the benefit and the use of man, both to please the eye and to gladden the heart and to enliven the soul (D & C 59:18-19). Somermes one becomes surfeited in reading the difficult subject matter which takes concentration, and he needs variety. 'There is available a wide selection of books which will give development to the aesthetic and the cultural. Music, drama, poetry, fiction, and other cultural fields are available to everyone. The contributions come to us from great minds and great hearts and great sufferers and great thinkers. In addition to all the serious study there should be time for just plain reading for pleasure. Here one needs assistance to select that which is pleasurable in a worthwhile way. 'There are countless works of fiction which help us to understand ourselves and others better, and to 728 get real pleasure in the learning. There are great books which stimulate our thinking and help us to establish values. A typical little volume, exciting to read and of wholesome thought, is Gift From the Sea by Anne Lindbergh. It could be read many times. She found the simple life reminiscent of Thoreau's Walden which influenced the thinking of Relief Society women last year. The women of the Church should find no difficulty in selecting reading material for themselves and their families with The Children's Friend, The Instructor, The Era, The Relief Society Magazine, the Church Section of the Deseret News, and all the lessons of the auxiliary organizations. Mothers have also the well-written lessons in_ literature, social science, and theology which can give them a lib

eral education if they are dutiful in their pursuit. The sisters should not be content to hear the lessons only, but should let that lesson be only the appetizer to induce a total reading of the books referred to. The Lord commanded us to learn by study and by faith and prayer. When the Savior was tempted by Lucifer, he replied: Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God (Mt. 4:4). It is the spiritual and ethical and religious reading which all should do which will give background for cultural and spiritual growth. Since no amount of knowledge can save or exalt, one must apply his knowledge. Consequently it is necessary that in the reading habits of men there should be a generous part directed to the spiritual:... That you shall teach one another the doctrine of the kingdom... And -.. More perfectly in theory, in principle, in doctrine, in the law of the gospel, in all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God, that are expedient for you to understand (D & C 88:77-78). This would imply careful, regular, and systematic study of the standard works of the Church. Herein will be found the material for a lifetime of profitable study. One could not possibly, in mortality, learn all about the Way of Life, consequently these books should be in every home, available for constant reference and reading. Splendid it would be if gifts to children in their early years were book-gifts. How fine if every child could have the New Testament even in early years, and, a little later, his own triple combination of the three books and also his own Bible. Herein are found the "... Principle, doctrine, the law of the gospel, all things that pertain unto the kingdom of God." Emerson said: ""There is properly no history; only biography," and, if children are to grow up _ with character and intense love and deepseated faith, let them read the biographies of the great of all time. Every lesson in ethical standards and in proper spiritual living is found in the standard works. Here will be found the rewards of righteousness and the penalties of sin. Here will be the life stories of men who were selfish, arrogant, bold, and vicious, and who came to tragic ends. Here are the histories of nations which degenerated from godTHE POWER OF BOOKS hood back to beasthood, who with their posterity, suffered untold agonies and death. "In the history of the world," said Emerson, "a very large part of what has been achieved can be traced to the influence of a relatively small handful of men — men who were dedicated, enterprising, curious and able to a degree which set them apart from their contemporaries. There is a real sense in which the story of their lives is the history of the world." Here are the pictures of people who lived and met all the exigencies of life and overcame meanness, jealousies, envies, hatreds, and became pure of heart and clean of hands. Here are pictures of the winds of disobedience and rebellion and uncleanness and the whirlwinds that enveloped them. Here are men who approached perfection under trials and difficulties, like Job, and who emerged superior beings. Here are the biographies of the prophets and of leaders and of the Lord himself, giving example and direction so that men can, by following those examples, be perfected, happy, full of joy, and with eternity their goal and expectation. And the Lord required, in addition to the study of these numerous fields of culture and interest, we '.. Study my word which hath gone forth among the children of men." [This would be the Holy Bible said by John Livingstone Lowes to be the noblest monument of English prose, and said by the Lord to be MY WORD.I.. And also study my word which shall come forth among the children of men, or that which is now translating...." [This is certainly the Book of Mormon.] éé 


 ae yea, until you have obtained all which I shall grant unto the children ot men in this generation, and then shall all things be added thereto...." [And _perhaps this includes from the Pearl of Greai Price, the Book of Moses]: "The visions of Moses as revealed to Joseph Smith, the Prophet" [and also the Book of Abraham] "a translation of some ancient records " (D & C 11:22). [And the Lord commanded further]:.. Seek ye out of the Book of Commandments..." Jour Doctrine and Covenants, our book of modern revelation]. Among the "best books" to be read are the numerous commentaries of the leaders of the Church, too numerous to list, but which are stimulating and clarifying and written to give a better understanding of the Plan. The Articles of Faith is a type of gospel explanation books. Home Memories of President David O. McKay is an example of ideal home life and characterbuilding books. The Way to Perfection, by President Joseph Fielding Smih is a gospel treatise. Our Lord of the Gospels, by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., is a comprehensive arrangement making the study of the scriptures easier for the student. It must be remembered that all books published by Church authors are not official Church publications, and the reader must be discriminating and selective. But all these numerous books have much of value in them for the discriminating student. In all the commentaries, good as they may be, it must be remembered that none takes the place of the original source material. Conditions may have been such that few people could talk to Browning, Shakespeare, Scott, or Emerson, but almost everyone in ce 730 our world can profit by their written thoughts. Few of us could travel with Byrd to the South Pole or with Peary into the frozen areas of the North, but everyone can read of their experiences and of the conditions in those desolate areas. Few of us can travel to the Sistine Chapel in Rome and see the great array of masterpieces of the great artists in the great art galleries of the world, nor can we sit in their studios and see them work, but relatively few need be deprived of seeing the works of the masters, for home libraries may have faithful reproductions. Not everyone may kneel with the Prophet in the Sacred Grove nor on Mount Sinai with Moses, nor on the Mount of Transfiguration with Peter, James, and John, yet nearly every soul in our world may see the pictures of artists and read the true record of these world-stirring events. Few of us may, at this time, fly into space, yet we may do so by proxy as we read the exploits of the astronauts. Through books we may come to know the kindliness of Abraham Lincoln, the devotion of Sweitzer, the vision of Franklin, the faith of Abraham, and the sacrifice of our Lord Jesus Chnist. Few of the billions of earth can walk with God as did Adam and Abraham and Moses, yet, in the world in which we live, the scriptures are available to nearly every soul, and, through them, men can become intimately acquainted with their Heavenly Father, his Son Jesus Christ, and with conditions and opportunities and expectations of life eternal. Josef Muench FARM SCENE IN NORTH WALES Landscape Quilting Iris W. Schow Fall plowing forms the lining; The fleece is fluffy snow; Contrasting crops Piece patchwork tops, And the intense lines Of all the fencelines Mark where the quilting stitches go!
