[Vol50 | October 1963 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Lesson | Title: Social Science — Priesthood Quorums and Their Function | Author: Ariel S. Ballif]
789  Social  Science  —  Priesthood  Quorums  and  Their  Function       Ariel  S.  Ballif 
Poetry 
721     Lingering  Autvunn  —  Frontispiece       Dorothy  J.  Roberts 
Landscape  Quilting  by  Iris  W.  Schow,  731;  Watchcare,  by  Zara  Sabin,  739;  Farewell  to 
a  House  Well  Loved,  by  Mabel  Jones  Gabbott,  744;  Suggestion,  by  Ida  Elaine  James, 
746;  Count  Your  Blessings  —  Not  Troubles,  by  Ursula  King  Bell,  751;  Old  Wagon 
Wheel,  by  Jeanette  Swanson,  762;  Ready  for  Carnival,  by  Maude  Rubin,  773;  My 
Afghan,  by  Pearle  M.  Olsen,  795;  Open  Kettle  Canning,  by  Christie  Lund  Coles,  796; 
Hidden  Worth,  by  Eva  Willes  Wangsgaard,  796;  Two  By  Two,  by  Arline  Cummings, 
797;  Pictures  of  an  Old  Red  Barn,  by  Linnie  F.  Robinson,  798;  Sidewalk  Vignette,  by 
Betty  Isler,  800. 
Published  monthly  by  THE  GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  ©  1963  by 
the  Relief  Society  General  Board  Association.  Editorial  and  Business  Office;  76  North  Main,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah  84111;  Phone  EMpire 
4-2511;  Subscriptions  2642;  Editoriol  Dept.  2654.  Subscription  Price  $2.00  a  year;  foreign,  $2.00  a  year;  20c  a  copy,  payable  in  ad- 
vance. The  Magazine  is  not  sent  after  subscription  expires.  No  back  numbers  con  be  supplied.  Renew  promptly  so  that  no  copies 
will  be  missed.  Report  change  of  address  at  once,  giving  old  ond  new  address.  Entered  as  second-class  matter  February  18,  1914, 
at  the  Post  Office,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  under  the  Act  of  March  3,  1879.  Acceptance  for  mailing  at  special  rate  of  postage  provided 
for  in  section  1103,  Act  of  October  8,  1917,  authorized  June  29,  1918.  Manuscripts  will  not  be  returned  unless  return  postage  is 
enclosed.     Rejected  manuscripts  will  be  retained  for  six  months  only.     The  Magazine  is  not  responsible  for  unsolicited  manuscripts.

B       NATIONAL 
■  (iE()GR\PHIC i 
\ 
The  Power  of  Books 
Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
and  Camilla  E.  Kimball 
l^^^'^TT 
1 
Since  time  immemorial  men's 
thoughts  have  been  directed,  their 
emotions  swayed,  their  lives  influ- 
enced, and  their  actions  stirred  or 
curtained  by  the  expressed  thoughts, 
and  experiences  lived  by  others. 
Real  thinkers  are  the  small  mi- 
nority, and  the  followers  in  thought 
and  act  are  the  great  majority. 
People  are  changed  by  what  they 
hear  and  what  they  read.  Alexander 
Smith  says:  ''Books  are  a  finer  world 
within  a  world."  And  we  heartily 
agree  if  he  refers  to  the  ''best 
books." 
While  there  have  been  books  and 
records  all  through  the  ages,  they 
are  far  more  abundant  today,  and 
even  a  person  of  moderate  means 
may  have  an  adequate  library  in  his 
own  home  and  have  access  to  nu- 
merous books  and  magazines 
through  public  libraries  which  boast 
millions  of  copies.  There  is  little 
excuse  for  even  the  poorest  folk  in 
our  day  to  be  without  good  reading 
material. 
In  pioneer  days  written  material 
was  at  a  premium.  It  is  recorded 
that  Abraham  Lincoln,  the  Ameri- 
can Emancipator,  was  so  hungry  for 
reading  material  that  he  walked 
long  distances  to  borrow  a  book  and 
then  to  return  it;  and  he  used 
charcoal  to  write  on  smooth  wood 
and  a  knife  to  whittle  off  the  writ- 
ing. In  those  early  days  when  men 
were  fighting  the  natural  elements, 
trying  to  get  a  foothold  in  the  soil 
and  to  establish  themselves  in  vir- 
gin territory,  their  long  hours  were 
spent  in  manual  labor,  and  they  had 
neither  the  time  nor  the  books.  But 
today  what  an  opportunity!  Labor- 
ing hours  have  been  reduced  and 
leisure  time  increased!  Numerous 
leisure  hours  have  been  made  avail- 
able to  men.  It  is  noticeable  that 
many  use  these  extra  hours  for  fun 
and  pleasure.  Certainly  an  increased 
part  of  it  could  profitably  be  used  in 
gaining  knowledge  and  culture 
through  the  reading  of  good  books. 
Numerous  people  fail  to  take  ad- 
vantage of  these  opportunities. 
Many  people  spend  hours  in  planes 
with  only  cursory  glancing  at  maga- 
zines, and  in  the  train  or  bus,  time 
is  spent  "sitting  and  thinking,"  and 
in  many  cases,  "just  sitting,"  when 
there  could  be  such  a  constructive 
program  of  reading.  People  in  beauty 
parlors,  professional  offices,  waiting 
rooms,  and  elsewhere  waste  precious 
hours  thumbing  through  outdated 
magazines  when  much  valuable  read- 
ing could  be  done  in  these  islands 
of  time.  For  example,  the  Bible 
can  be  read  in  a  year's  time  with  but 
a  little  time  each  day. 
Good  reading  habits  should  be 
formed  in  early  childhood.  Since 
women,  generally,  have  the  greater 
responsibility  in  training  the  chil- 
dren they  should  make  a  study  of 
their  facilities. 
We  might  ask  each  mother:  Is 
there  a  dearth  of  good  books  in 
your  home?  Is  there  sufficient  read- 
ing material  of  good  quality  and 
high  standard  for  each  child,  so  that 
each  will  read  the  appropriate  books 
as  he  grows  up  —  those  books  which 
will  whet  his  taste  for  good  things, 
724

THE  POWER  OF  BOOKS 
stimulate  his  ambition,  properly  stir 
his  emotions,  and  increase  his  love 
for  the  beautiful  and  proper  things, 
and  develop  his  faith  and  build  his 
character? 
Do  you  mothers  read  to  your  chil- 
dren to  start  them  in  their  hunger 
for  the  good  things?  There  are 
mothers  who  read  the  stories  of  the 
scriptures  regularly  to  their  children 
w^ho  look  forward  to  this  delightful 
family  experience. 
Are  you  careful  in  the  selection  of 
the  books  which  go  into  your  home 
library  so  that  only  the  clean  and 
the  good  are  available  to  the  chil- 
dren? Are  you  as  careful  with  the 
diet  of  reading  material  for  their 
minds  as  you  are  of  the  food  which 
goes  daily  into  their  bodies?  How 
few  children  would  get  a  balanced 
diet  if  left  to  their  own  fickle  appe- 
tites. And  it  is  in  these  homes 
where  parents  are  careless  that  there 
is  found  pornographic  reading  ma- 
terial and  salacious  pictures  and 
stories  to  stuff  the  minds  with 
lewdness  and  filth.  If  children 
establish  their  standards  from  either 
rude  persons  or  crude  books  and 
pictures,  society  has  suffered  an 
irreparable  loss,  whereas  it  has  a 
right  to  expect  from  each  of  its 
members  a  worthwhile  contribution 
toward  peace,  joy,  and  progress. 
Out  of  the  vast  amount  of  reading 
material  available  there  is  something 
exactly  to  fit  the  needs  of  every 
child  at  every  age  from  the  slightly 
retarded  to  the  most  brilliant  child, 
and  all  in  between  at  their  own 
vocabulary  level.  The  wise  parents 
will  supply  the  proper  books  and 
stimulate  their  reading. 
Someone  has  said:    "I  no   more 
remember  the  books  I  have  read, 
than  the  meals  I  have  eaten,  but 
they  make  me  what  I  am." 
Every  person  we  meet  makes  a 
contribution  to  our  lives,  good  or 
bad.  Every  book  can  influence  the 
life  of  the  person  who  reads  it.  The 
parents'  responsibility,  then,  is  to 
make  certain  that  the  influence  is 
good.  Wliile  the  body  is  sacred  and 
vital,  the  mind  and  spirit  are  of 
greater  importance.  Even  in  the 
beginning  there  was  the  written 
word,  for  Adam  and  Eve  were  con- 
scious of  the  need  for  the  develop- 
ment of  the  mind,  ''And  by  them 
their  children  were  taught  to  read 
and  write,  having  a  language  which 
was  pure  and  undefiled"  (Moses 
6:6). 
The  prophets  were  faithful  in  re- 
cording their  predictions  and  warn- 
ings, and  the  patriarchs  in  making 
accurate  accounts  of  the  movements 
of  the  people,  their  human  events, 
their  genealogies,  their  biographies, 
and  the  world  events.  Their  smaller 
world  was  limited  in  communication 
and  transportation,  but,  coming 
from  them,  we  have  the  precious 
records  of  the  ages  with  their  lessons 
of  life  accurately  depicted. 
Whether  they  wrote  on  paper, 
papyrus,  clay  tablets,  on  stone  or  on 
metal,  the  political  and  spiritual 
leaders  made  faithful  records  and, 
to  them,  we  are  indebted  for  the 
great  mass  of  worthwhile  informa- 
tion that  is  available  to  us  today. 
In  the  museums  of  London,  Cairo, 
Bagdad,  Paris,  and  elsewhere  are 
numerous  clay  tablets  and  metal 
records  preserved  from  the  antiqui- 
ties. 
Far  down  in  the  bowels  of  the 
725

OCTOBER  1963 
earth  in  the  Valley  of  the  Kings  near 
Luxor  in  Egypt,  the  walls  of  the 
tombs  are  covered  with  colored 
writings  preserved  through  the  ages. 
From  the  earth  in  New  York  came 
precious  metal  plates  of  gold  record- 
ing histories  and  biographies  and 
events  in  the  old  and  new  worlds 
for  about  2600  years.  How  fortunate 
we  are  to  have  all  these  records! 
In  our  own  day,  the  printing 
presses  of  all  the  more  developed 
countries  run  incessantly  pouring 
out  new  reading  material.  We  are 
advised  that  books  are  published  in 
the  United  States,  alone,  at  the  rate 
of  more  than  a  thousand  per  month. 
With  the  millions  already  in  librar- 
ies and  new  books  every  few  min- 
utes, there  is  little  justification  for 
one  in  our  enlightened  groups  being 
unread. 
Most  people,  and  especially  chil- 
dren, need  guidance  as  to  what  they 
should  read.  Children  will  general- 
ly follow  the  patterns  of  their  par- 
ents. The  Lord  has  indicated  this 
when  he  said: 
And  as  all  have  not  faith,  seek  ye  dili 
gently  and  teach  one  another  words  of 
wisdom;  yea,  seek  ye  out  of  the  best 
books,  words  of  wisdom,  seek  learning, 
even  by  study  and  also  by  faith  (D  &  C 
88:118). 
Happy  is  the  family  whose  mem- 
bers  have  learned  to  make  good 
books  their  companions.  The  need 
of  guidance  by  parents,  teachers,  and 
Church  organizations  is  apparent, 
that  the  minds  of  children  be  prop- 
erly stirred  and  fed.  One  is  literally 
what  he  thinks,  and  his  thinking  is 
greatly  influenced  by  what  he  reads. 
Someone  gave  us  this: 
Thought  in  the  mind  hath  made  us.  What 
we  are 
By  thought  was  wrought  and  built.     If  a 
man's  mind 
Hath  evil  thoughts,  pain  comes  on  him, 
as  comes 
The  wheel  the  ox  behind.  .  .  . 
...  if  one  endure 
In  purity  of  thought,  joy  follows  him 
As  his  own  shadow  —  sure. 
The  Lord  would  have  us  know 
the  gospel  truths  first,  but  would 
not  limit  us  to  the  scriptures.  He 
has  said: 
Search  the  scriptures;  for  in  them  ye 
think  ye  have  eternal  life:  and  they  are 
they  which  testify  of  me  (John  5:39). 
He  has  also  indicated  that  our 
reading  should  be  of  a  general  na- 
ture, including  material  in  every 
legitimate  field. 
As  we  yearn  and  plan  and  pro- 
gram our  lives  to  become  gods,  it 
is  apparent  that  we  must  have  full 
knowledge  of  all  the  fields  which 
affect  a  world.  The  Lord  has  made 
this  clear: 
And  I  give  unto  you  a  commandment 
that  ye  shall  teach  one  another  the  doc- 
trine of  the  kingdom. 
Teach  ye  diligently  and  my  grace  shall 
attend  you,  that  you  may  be  instructed 
more  perfectly  in  theory,  in  principle,  in 
doctrine,  in  the  law  of  the  gospel,  in  all 
things  that  pertain  unto  the  kingdom  of 
God,  that  are  expedient  for  you  to  under- 
stand; 
Of  things  both  in  heaven  and  in  the 
earth,  and  under  the  earth;  things  which 
have  been,  things  which  are,  things  which 
must  shortly  come  to  pass;  things  which 
are  at  home,  things  which  are  abroad;  the 
wars  and  the  perplexities  of  the  nations, 
and  the  judgments  which  are  on  the  land; 
and  a  knowledge  also  of  countries  and 
of  kingdoms  — 
That  ye  may  be  prepared  in  all  things 
when   I   shall  send  you  again  to  magnify 
726