[Vol50 | October 1963 | Page 751 | Home | Stretching the Food Budget — Part II — Evaporated Milk Marion Bennion and Sadie | O. Morris]
[Stretching the Food Budget — Part II — Evaporated Milk Marion Bennion and Sadie O. Morris]

See regulations governing the submittal of material for ""Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Organize a Relief Society, March 1963 Front row, seated, left to right: Ened Allen, First Counselor; Sara Nichols, President; Zelma R. West, President, Eastern States Mission Relief Society; Opal Sabey, Secretary, Bermuda Relief Society. Back row, standing, left to right: Lola Turek; LaVerne Guymon; Beth Mathis, Magazine representative; Patricia Doane. Sister West reports: "We are so pleased with the Relief Society organization in Bermuda. The first meeting was held in March of this year. All the sisters expressed their happiness at having the Relief Society lessons as a pattern to guide their lives as wives and mothers, and they are thrilled with the opportunity to study and work together. At the social which they gave for President West and me, the attractive refreshment table was centered with a lovely cake decorated with pansies in Relief Society colors, and with the words 'Welcome to the Bermuda Relief Society' written on top." 763 North Sevier Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music For Many Occasions Gladys Johnson, President, North Sevier Stake Relief Society, stands at the right on the second row, with Bernece Mickelsen, chairman, next to her; Wilma Sorensen, director, is seated in the center on the front row, with LaJuana and Rozena Bastian, organists, on each side respectively. Sister Johnson reports: "We are very proud of our Singing Mothers. They have sung for many occasions. Many hours have been spent in practicing for conferences, concerts, and funerals. We have been very thrilled with the response of our sisters and especially appreciative of the untiring efforts of our chorister and our organists.