[Vol50 | October 1963 | Page 744 | General Feature | Editorial: In Time of Harvest Vesta | P. Crawford]
EDITORIAL In Time of Harvest "Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth labourers into his harvest" (Mt. 9:38). Acain comes the interval season between the warm and radiant summer and the long quietness of winter. In this way autumn comes to the Northern Hemisphere, with its blessings of harvest. And in that other Hemisphere where it is now springtime and the days of blossoming, there will come also a time of harvesting according to the word of the Lord, "While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease" (Genesis 8:22). For harvest is the ingathering of that which may be reaped for the maintenance of the body and the enrichment of the mind and spirit — a time also for sharing all that is given sparingly or in abundance. So it has been throughout the centuries. So it was among the people of ancient Israel, a time for the counting of days and the beginning of a calendar, when it was given to Moses to proclaim a time of rejoicing, "And the feast of the harvest, the firstfruits of thy labours, which thou hast sown in the field: and the feast of ingathering...." So it was in later generations in a wider world when the fields turned to gold and the orchards were laden with fruit. There was also a harvest that first year on the dark New England shore. A harvest followed the first hasty planting that was made in the valleys of the mountains in late July, when the clear mountain waters were turned upon the primeval land, and prayers of hopefulness were mingled with the planting. Relief Society women, frugal and industrious in their ways, gleaned in the wheat fields in the years that followed, and they were as beautiful and as humble as Ruth of ancient times who "came to Bethlehem in the beginning of barley harvest." For the people of many centuries have rejoiced in the golden beaded wheat, the barley fields in rippled waves, and the plumes of oats, expressing gratitude for the grains choice among the plants of earth. 742 © éreen ears," when the corn was brought S and the €st ears were Toasted on the embers of Onfire Friends and relatives traveled ma On one such occasion a yj land which they had arvests, she Said, "The and this I 743 e