[Vol50 | October 1963 | Page 754 | Home | Check Your Sewing Equipment | Shirley Thulin]
[Check Your Sewing Equipment Shirley Thulin]

Also, be sure to provide a varied supply of snaps, hooks and eyes, interfacings of neutral colors, mending aids, linings, good scissors to fit each cutting job, and thread, tapes, measuring devices, and zippers. A new product — colorless thread — is now available in some stores, and many seamstresses have found it to be a useful substitute for having on hand a variety of color in sewing thread. If you take care of all these sewing needs, then you can sit down to sew without any interruptions, or running to the store for one thing at a time. 753 AY Cellar'ot: ' Long Ago Vliriam R. Anderson Pati A: Grampa's farm, a trip to the cellar, that dim, mysterious region underground, was spine-tingling adventure. Here the gifts of the summer were stored, cool] and dry. The good Michigan earth formed the floor, and this pungent, full-bodied aroma was intoxicating fragrance to eight-year-old nostrils. Grandma's "Do you want to get some potatoes for supper?" was, I am now certain, a cleverly executed ruse perpetrated for my occupation and amusement. Across the wide years, I still remember the twinkle in her eyes that accompanied the words. While I quivered with anticipation, which was fringed with a delicious awe at the thought of the dark, cavernous depths to which I would soon descend alone, she lighted the kerosene lantern. As always I received grandmotherly warnings and advice as to its use. Then with my Indian-made_basket, I started on mv adventure. It really began in the stillness on the stairs. The qmet dnfting up from the cellar was not like any other part of the house. The muffled footsteps of an occasional walker overhead and the creak-creak of ancient beams and rafters only mag- 754 nified it. The stillness here had height, breadth, and body. The infrequent scurryings of a mouse, alarmed at this trespass of -her domain, accentuated it. There was the echo of my boots, tentatively trying for the next step down the steep, old-fashioned stairs. (For the house had been built in the "eighties." ) There were misty cobwebs in the stair ceiling corners, where I knew spider life was going on, in its own mysterious way. Then, stepping on the earth floor, there was an enveloping pure quiet. Dark vistas ranged away behind the used part of the cellar; the mingled aroma of lantern and cellar assailed me with lovely excitement. I drew deep breaths of the tantalizing, acrid sweetness of stored fruit, the crisp breath of cabbage, rutabagas, turnips, potatoes, and onions. The apple smell (for this was apple country) was alone worth the venture. Over all was the permeating moist odor of the earth floor. (What Indians might have lived right here — in times gone by?) I would think. I knew they were Chippewas — but what were their names? By deep enough toe diggings with my boots, I "might even uncover an arrowhead! Hlopive the lantern high, the shelves with their orderly rows of shining jars of preserves, fruit, vegetables, and pickles, sat complacently smug, forming a tidy world of their own above the bins of vegetables. Here, indeed, was a journey into the mysterious and adult world of industry, responsibility, and providence. Well I knew that weeks of toil and expert handling had gone on in the summer kitchen before those jars had come to rest in their appointed places, provision against the bitter northern winter. I had helped Harry, the hired man, tug in bushel baskets of crimson, succulent tomatoes from the fields. They joined ranks with the baskets of slender green cucumbers, yellow onions, creamy cauliflowers, and red and green peppers. The tantalizing breath of chili sauce, tomato catsup, and piccalilli had filled the farmhouse for days. Then Grandma and Sarah, Harry's wife, had begun on the apple butter which, it seemed to me, had simmered for days to spicy, bubbling thickness on the wood range. Therehad been also the aroma of cloves in the pickled peaches, without which no Michigan Thanksgiving or Christmas festivity would be complete. Looking at the colorful perfection of the jars, I could almost smell the dill, the spices and seasonings that had gone into their making. On these shelves the fruits of the summer just past awaited our pleasure. Trim rows of green and gold pickles made pleasurable contrast to the red richness of tomato preserves. There were butter-yellow peaches, arranged tidily, rounded side out to the jar.