[Vol50 | October 1963 | Page 731 | Poem | Lingering Autvunn — Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts Landscape Quilting by | Iris W. Schow]
[Lingering Autvunn — Frontispiece Dorothy J. Roberts Landscape Quilting by Iris W. Schow]

Their lips met as his arms went around her in a lingering embrace. Ben saw them, too. The world around them all was suddenlv very still. A moment out of time. At last Emma Lu walked slowly toward her parents, and Larry hurried to the main office. Her face was pale as marble in the moonlight. When she was near enough Luana noticed that the Roselani lei around her neck was crushed and withered. Her hands fluttered to the petals as if she would keep them from falling off. "My girls," Ben said softly, slipping an arm around each of them, as they followed Tutu and Margeret to the car. Luana glanced sideways at Emma Lu. Her cheeks were wet and shiny with tears. She is no longer a girl, Luana thought achingly. She is a woman who knows love and must make decisions. Tix: Harringtons always had their family prayer, but first they sat 760 around the big table on the lanai. Ben opened the Bible and read a favorite psalm. 'Then they knelt beside their chairs for prayer. Tonight, it was Benjy's turn to pray aloud. Luana followed her twin boys to their bedroom, as she always did. There was never a night that she did not have a quiet moment with each of her children, a moment of understanding, when all little faults and unkind acts were forgiven. But tonight Bo was already asleep, as she tucked the coverlet over him. Benjy pulled her down beside him. He still wore his lollipop lei over his pajamas. "T love you, Mama," he whispered sleepily. "You're the best Mother in all the world — even in the Mainland." Luana smiled. The Mainland had become very important to the children now that Hawaii was the fiftieth State in the Union. Phil was standing by the window when she-went to his room. He was looking up at the moon, his eyes puzzled. "Are you cross at me, Mom?" he questioned as he turned to her. "About Larry, I mean? I thought you weren't yourself today — not as gay." "No — I'm not cross with you, son," she answered, thoughtfully. "But I am disturbed about Larry and Emma Lu. There is another boy in. Her life, Philip. In San Francisco. You knew nothing about him so don't blame yourself. There was no time for her to tell anyone but me." "Another boy!" he repeated. "You mean — serious?" Luana nodded. "Engaged," she told him. "Wouldn't you call that very serious?" "Yes " his voice caught. "Yes, I would, Mom. How could she do that to Larry, when she knows he's completely gone on her. My sister! I'd like to tell her off!" Luana put her fingers on his lips. "No, Philip," she coaxed. "It's not your place to tell your sister off. I am trying to let her make up her own mind. You should do the same. I told you because I expect you to be mature about it. Someday you will bring a special girl home to meet your family, and you will want me to be fair enough to see her through your eyes. Shall we let Emma Lu have that privilege, too?" He flopped onto the bed. His face relaxed in a boyish grin. "Sure, Mom," he said, lifting his head for her goodnight kiss. "Sure but it's a tough break for somebody." Walking down the hallway toward her bedroom, Luana noticed the lights were out in Margaret's bedroom and in Tutu's, too. They were asleep, no doubt, after an exciting day. She hesitated by Emma Lu's and Pixie's room, where the door was half open and the light still on. Pixie was fast asleep in her twin bed, but Emma Lu was not there. Six opened the door to her own bedroom. Emma Lu was seated on an Ottoman in front of Ben, who was in his armchair. Luana took her place quietly beside him. His big hands were laced together, the knuckles showing white. His dark KISS OF THE WIND eyes looked hurt, but he was listening with quiet restraint. "I was telling Daddy about Sherman," she said. "I met him at Bishop Hammond's home. You remember I've written about them. They were so nice to me. They had Sunday night suppers after church, and this night Sherman was there. He handed me a glass of punch. We smiled together. I couldn't see anyone else after that. I am so proud to be engaged to Sherman." She met their eyes with an expression as sweet and honest as a child's first prayer. Ben said in a tight voice, "You did not act like a girl who is engaged to marry another man when you were with Larry today." "I know I didn't, Daddy," she answered. "But please... Try to understand. I had to see Larry again sooner or later. I told Sherman that I had to see him again. I had to know for sure that I am free from his charm. Daddy." She reached for Ben's hand and held it in both of hers. "There is always a boy like Larry Brown in every gitl's life. Even while we are in love with him and fascinated, still.. We know all along that he isn't the one we want to marry. Today, when I saw Larry again he was part of my Hawaii — part of my girlhood — part of the blue sky and the white glistening sand and the mystic moonlight." Ben's dark brows drew together. "I saw you kiss him, Emma Lu," he said. "Your mother and I saw you kiss him." "I know," she answered. "That 


 was a goodbye kiss, Daddy. Our aloha kiss. Larry flies to Sydney in the morning. No doubt he has a sweetheart there. I told him about Sherman. That we will be married this summer in the Temple at Laie. Larry and I won't be seeing each other anymore." Her lips trembled, and she bent her head. They were silent for a moment. When she lifted her head, her voice was steady. "Daddy," she said, "I was attracted to Sherman because he is the same kind of man that you are — stalwart and dependable. You have always been my ideal. You and Mama should have trusted me enough to know I wouldn't choose a husband who didn't meet your high standards." Ben drew a long, relieved breath. He got to his feet and straightened his broad shoulders. "Good girl!" he said, with his big smile. "You have my blessing." "Mine, too," Luana said. "If he is like your Daddy, I couldn't ask for a better husband for my daughtem" Emma Lu hugged them both. Luana noticed shadows of worry deepen in Ben's eyes. Probably thinking of the expense of fitting out Emma Lu, Luana thought. Ben spoke, "It takes a great deal of ready cash to keep this plantation going. ~I'm one of the last independent owners. Nearly all of my friends have sold out to the corporation. I'm trying to hold on " Luana's heart reached out to him, wanting to help him. She must help him. She must win the artist's contest, she thought, desperately.