[Vol50 | October 1963 | Page 722 | General Feature | From Near and Far]
[From Near and Far]

From Near and Far

The beautiful lithographed covers of the Magazine are wonderful. The June 1963 issue, with its picture of the Salem Pond, brought joy to my heart, because that is the pond I grew up with. That pond is a delight to the people of the town and all who visit it. Claire Noall's pictures of Norway were a specialty to me. My parents were both born there, and their children were reared with stories about the beauties of their native land.
—Bessie Iverson Jenkins
Salt Lake City, Utah

I enjoy the Magazine and make use of many of the ideas presented in it. I followed the ideas given in the article "Let's Have a Bake Party" (by Mary S. Kemp in the March issue), and gave a party for my five-year-old daughter. The children were delighted with the idea, and the parents thought it was the cleverest idea they had ever heard of. Thanks so much for the idea.
—Mrs. Ernestine Sanford
Socorro, New Mexico

I have been a member of the Church since last November, but only just started to take the Magazine. How thrilled I was when I discovered the Sydney Stake, Parramatta Ward picture in the Magazine (July 1963). My eldest daughter, now almost four, was born in the Parramatta Hospital, and my husband and I and our two daughters hope to return to Sydney within the next two years. No doubt we shall be meeting the sisters whose picture was in the Magazine, for we shall be hoping to live in Parramatta.
—Mrs. Viv Jackson
Haney
British Columbia

I like The Relief Society Magazine very much, especially the lovely poetry, and I appreciate the opportunity of receiving the Magazine.
—Mrs. Bessie Williams
Winston, Oregon

The Relief Society Magazine is truly grand and holds a wealth of knowledge to suit all members. In the June issue, I especially enjoyed "Norway — A Road By the Sea," by Claire Noall. Having traveled there three years ago with my husband, the article had great appeal to me. I liked all the artwork in the Magazine, and the article on growing African Violets, by Irene Dunford was practical and beautiful.
—Olive Hingston
Taranaki, New Zealand

Congratulations on your beautiful, modern July number. I have found the colorful cover of the pioneers at South Pass most interesting. The fine family sermon; the sketch of my great-uncle, President John Taylor; the picture of the handcart; the fresh, life-like stories; the musical poems; the sewing, cooking, and cultural articles all combine to inspire and improve our lives.
—Mary Porter Ober
Alhambra, California

Congratulations on the Fiftieth Anniversary of The Relief Society Magazine. May I say that our Magazine is one of the finest. The story "Kiss of the Wind," by Rosa Lee Lloyd (serial beginning in July 1963) brings the Hawaiian people back to my mind. The Near and Far page gives a glimpse of the feelings and expressions of other members of the Latter-day Saint family.
—Mrs. Frank Ashley
Roseburg, Oregon

Just lately I have been receiving The Relief Society Magazine, and in it I am finding wonderful material for lessons. We missionaries are always thankful for extra help in our work. I find the lessons especially helpful in teaching the saints here in the mission.
—Elder Kent Lyman Stevenson
La Paz, Baja California

722
