[Vol50 | October 1963 | Page 779 | Lesson | Theology — The Scriptures Hoy | W. Doxey]
[Theology — The Scriptures Hoy W. Doxey]

Moses challenged his 


 people not to leave the Lord, saying, "Is not he thy father... Hath he not made thee, and established thee?... Ask thy father, and he will shew thee" (Deut. 32:6-7). Solomon expressed the same thought when he said, "In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall dimet thy paths' (Prov. 3:6). Through the prophet Jeremiah the Lord said 'Call unto me, and I will answer thee" (Jer. 33:3). In his Sermon on the Mount the Lord Jesus Christ once more extended to his people the same glorious invitation, "Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (Matt. 7:7). And then the Lord added "For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. Or what man is there of you, whom if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone?... If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him?" (Matt. 7:8-11). When the Savior organized his church among the Nephites on the American Continent, he emphasized this same counsel and invitation. (See 3 Nephi 14:7-8.) Then, to dramatize the importance of this counsel further, just prior to his ascension to heaven, the Savior again said, "whatsoever things ye shall ask the Father in my name shall be given unto you. Therefore, ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you" (3 Nephi 27:28- 29). Why is this counsel or invitation 780 so important that the Lord has emphasized and reemphasized it so repeatedly? One of the best answers to this question was given by Isaiah when he described some of the blessings the Lord has in store for those who ask and wait upon the Lord. He said, "Men have not heard — 38 neither hath the eye seen... What he [the Lord] hath prepared for him that waiteth for him" (Is. 64:4). The apostle Paul restated this same promise in a letter to the Corinthians. He said, "Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him" (1 Cor. 2:9). Wonderful blessings, blessings beyond our power to comprehend, are prepared by the Lord for us if we will conscientiously seek them. But, to seek them we must ask; to enter into the Lord's house of promise, we must knock. The apostle James told the early Christians, " ye have not, because ye ask not" (James 4:2). However, these blessings do not come automatically. We must be deserving and we must ask in faith, "nothing wavering." (See James 1:6.) The Savior said, "all things, whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive" (Matt. 21:22). One famous author has set down four requirements necessary when asking for blessings from the Lord. He said, "Test your desire. Is it good for you? Are you ready for it now? Is it fair to all others concerned? Do you honestly feel it is according to God's will?" (ALLEN, CuarteEs L.: How to Get What You Want, page 79). If we can truly answer "yes" to these four questions, we can ask the Lord for our desires. But, we must ask him with full, unwavering faith, believing. There is still another requirement if we are to receive the Lord's blessings. This requirement was emphasized in an experience shared by the Prophet Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery while they were working on the translation of The Book of Mormon. At one point in that work, Oliver, with the permission of the Prophet, attempted to translate but was unable to use the urim and thummim, and he and Joseph inquired of the Lord the reason. In answer, the Lord said, "Behold, you have not understood; you have supposed that I would give it unto you, when you took no thought save it was to ask me. But, behold, I say unto you, that you must study it out in your mind; then you must LESSON DEPARTMENT ask me if it be night, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore, you shall feel that it is nght'" (D & C 9:7-8). As indicated in this experience, the Lord also expects us to work and to exercise our own intelligence and initiative in order to deserve his blessings. Surely the Lord has prepared for us bounteous blessings. He pleads with us to live so as to deserve these blessings and, deserving them, he counsels us "ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." But let us be wise in that which we request. Let us be sure that we have done what the Lord requires, asking in faith — fully believing — and the Lord will open the doors of his rich blessings and shower them upon us. WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 12 — Planning the Use of Resources Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, January 1964 Objective: To investigate methods of managing money, to determine their relative merits, and to adopt a method consistent with family goals. In today's world one is forced to be awake and on the job every minute as he assumes the responsibility of managing his own affairs, if he and his family are to make the most of their resources. Since women have a longer life span than men and are likely to have entire responsibility of their affairs some day, it is important that they learn to use money wisely.

Each family should have a plan 


 for the use of its resources, some training in method, and a clear understanding of family goals. 'Training in how to make decisions about the use of money can begin for a child as soon as he is aware of the difference in value of coins. He is then old enough to join the family planning session. By virtue of the fact that he is a member of the family and shares in the work of the home, he has the right to share in the money resources. His share will be small to begin with, but he will have the chance to choose for himself how he will spend it. For extra work, a child may receive extra compensation and learn what it means to work for pay. Gradually he can learn to save for items of special importance to him. The only way he can learn to use money is to have some to use, and the only way to learn to save is to have a plan for the saving. Parents set the savings goals of a mission or college education, but to a small child these goals are too remote to have much meaning. His participation in the savings plan for them will give meaning and motivate their realization. However, he learns through participation in family planning the great satisfactions to be gained through planned giving. He will know the joy of adding his bit to the building of a chapel, and share in the feeling of family securitv in setting aside the Lord's tenth. He will appreciate the feeling of security the payment of tithes can bring. The contributions planned for community relief will help him become aware of humanity's needs. Grandparents, too, can be helpful in training children in the use of 782 money. They can provide the children with extra work opportunities and suggest ways in which the money earned might be used. If grandmother has more time than mother, she might be the one to teach the child to buy fabric for a pinafore and help her make it. Grandfather might provide a small garden plot for a boy in which to grow vegetables, help him buy the seed, plant — and cultivate the garden, and advise — him on how to find a buyer for the vegetables when ready for the table. Each family plan will be different, even though basic needs may be the same — housing, food, clothing, etc. How, then, shall we go about making a plan that will fit our family needs and enable us to make wise use of our resources? First, let us discover what we are actually doing with our money by keeping a record of our expenditures fora month. Envelopes might be labeled food, rent, clothing, health (doctor, dentist, medicines), tithes and offerings, personal care, and other items. Receipts might be put in the envelopes as purchases are made or bills are paid. 'There would be ready access to the figures which could be tallied up at the end of the month. After listing these items for two or three months, the figures could be used as a base for charting money goals and making plans for the rest of the year. The checkbook method is another easy way to keep record of expenditures, and this method has the advantage of providing evidence for income tax purposes. It requires having enough money in the bank to do business.* As you make up your record of expenditures, you will be made aware of your actual spending practices, and where some seem unwise you will wish to plan changes. For example, if a teenage daughter wanted a new dress and her spending record showed a disproportionate amount spent on personal care, she would readily see where she could plan the use of her money to bring her greater satisfaction. LESSON DEPARTMENT Real savings are possible when one sees the mistakes that have been made and ideas develop for the better use of resources. Planning together as a family is a character-building activity which brings spiritual strength to the family and helps keep them from thinking only of the materialistic values of this world. *Refer to "The Family Dollar," by Robert Daines in the April, 1963, Improvement Era for further information about this method. LITERATURE @ America's Literature The Last Hundred Years Lesson 44 — William Dean Howells, Democratic Realist (1837-1920) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 674-695 ) For Third Meeting, January 1964 Objective: To define and exemplify American Realism by studying the life and writings of its prime spokesman. Rewemser that wherever life is simplest and purest and kindest, that is the highest civilization." This statement fairly represents William Dean Howells, one of the kindest and gentlest and most affectionate of America's influential writers. For more than sixty years the dominant passion of his life was to defend and enlarge such a_ philosophy. Nonetheless, he became outmoded and forgotten many years before his death in 1920. Our own generation cannot forget him since we have never really known his name. Only a few teachers and literary historians remember him, and then, usually, as a literary scapegoat, scorned alike by the once-popular Romantics of the earlier nineteenth century and the "liberated" modern writers for whom he paved the way. Yet he eminently deserves to be respected, read, and enjoyed. Affectionately known in his decades of literary and critical predominance as the Dean of American Letters, Mr. Howells spoke out courageously 


 and effectively as the literary conscience of the late nineteenth century. 'That he was read and heard and respected more widely than any other writer of his day, save possibly Twain, is sufficient justification for acknowledging his claim upon our time. Furthermore, those who read him will find in his pages an immediate reassurance and _ pleasure, provided, of course, they are Howells' type of people, namely the middle-class, average Americans whom he knew best and loved most. Finally, in his message to the young writers of his own day he emphasized the timeless values of integrity and truth when he said, Do not trouble yourselves about standards or contempts or passions; but try to be faithful and natural; and remember that there is no greatness, no beauty, which does not come from truth to your own knowledge of things (Kirk & Kirk, Representative Selections, American Book Company, 1950, Cxxxili). It is such values which comprise the essence of Realism, and of Howells himself. THE FORMATIVE YEARS Howells was born in 1837 in Martin's Ferry, Ohio, and spent his youth in several Ohio villages where his father ran the local newspaper. Belief in the goodness of all mankind and in the vital need for idealistic living and humanitarian reform were current in the air. His father was blessed with a great love of literature, and during the long, quiet evenings shared his delight in Thomson and Pope by reading their works aloud to his family. Young William grew up knowing with his family that "in every thought and in 784 every deed they were choosing their portion with the devils or the angels, and that God himself could not save them against themselves" (Ibid., XXlll). When he was thirteen the Howells family spent a year living in a log cabin wilderness near Xenia, Ohio, where Father Howells and his two brothers had hoped to establish their own communal Utopia. When the experiment failed, the family moved to Ashtabula in the Western Reserve and went heavily in debt to buy the town newspaper. An experienced typesetter since he was nine, William worked in the print shop full time, thus being deprived of any formal education. Possibly because the eight Howells children were, with some justification, regarded as "different"; or because William was extremely sensitive over a mentally retarded brother; or because he never grew taller than five feet four inches — for one reason or for all of them, William withdrew into the world of books, which he found so satisfying and exciting that all he wanted was more books. Though none of the normal pastimes and delights of a childhood in a typically casual and equally small town were unknown to him, as proved by his warm, mature remembrances of his youth as recorded in A Boy's Town, he was so driven by a desire to attain more literary knowledge that in his late teens he experienced a sort of mental breakdown when he could neither sleep nor work. And no wonder. During the day he absorbed from the old journeyman printers their great love of Shakespeare so that nights on end he sat in his little cubicle beneath the stairs reading until one or two o'clock. With an old bookbinder he would sit up reading his beloved poetry of Heinrich Heine in the original until the book was worn out. With no other help than a dictionary, young Howells learned Greek and Latin and Spanish, all that he might read Dante's and Cervantes' original words. Thus he drove himself toward a goal which he could not even begin to define, and when his great chance came, he was ready. But when, as a famous author and editor, he was offered professorships of literature at Johns Hopkins and Harvard, he refused them, feeling that he was not qualified since "self-taught is halftaught." Yet he did not refuse honorary degrees from Yale, Oxford, and Columbia, nor need he have done so, for no one more fully deserved them. As a competent young journalist, he did not hesitate to accept when someone asked him to write a campaign biography for Abraham Lincoln, whom he had never seen. But instead of interviewing him personally, he sent a law student to Illinois to gather material, and thus "I missed the greatest chance of my life." As a reward for Howell's efforts, Lincoln appointed him American Consul in Vienna where he spent the Civil War years getting acquainted with his lovely, understanding wife and, with typical industry, writing poetry and sketches which no one would publish. When after four years of intense diligence he saw only four short poems in print, he told a friend, in 1864, that "to write of literature makes my soul LESSON DEPARTMENT sick within me." For him this was a long period of "waiting and defeat, which I thought would never end." LITERARY SUCCESS In 1860, dedicated Howells, then barely twenty-three, brashly used his earnings from the Lincoln biography to make his long-awaited literary pilgrimage to Boston and Concord. Without hesitation, this unknown upstart from the uncultivated prairies of the Western Reserve called on the retiring Hawthorne, was cordially entertained, and was sent to the august Emerson _ bearing Hawthorne's abrupt but just summary, "I find this young man worthy." James Russell Lowell, then editor of the newly established Atlantic Monthly, was so impressed that he arranged a dinner in honor of Howells, inviting Oliver Wendell Holmes and James I'.. Fields, who succeeded Lowell as editor, and who offered Howells the position of assistant editor in 1866. He emphasized that the appointment was an economy measure designed to take advantage of Howells' experience and skill at correcting copy. So effectively did he serve that, five years later in 1871, he was appointed editor, a position which he filled most brilliantly for the next ten years, when he resigned to devote himself completely to his writing. How uniquely American, and what a vindication of democratic principles to have an uneducated printers son from the untamed West chosen to shape the destinies of the new Nation's most sophisticated literary publication! 


 "DEAN" HOWELLS Though it might seem foolish to relinquish so influential a position as editor of the Atlantic, actually Howells was amply justified. While he had done his job most commendably, he had become frightfully tired of the tasks of editing. Accomplishments of the next decade proved the wisdom of his decision. 'Though during his sixty-odd years of productivity more than one hundred books were to flow from his pen, he had yet to discover his true powers as a novelist; likewise, the formulation of his critical principles had not even begun. As a literary term, the word Realism was unknown. Within the next decade all his best novels were published: A Modern Instance (1882), The Rise of Silas Lapham (1885), Indian Summer (1886) and A Hazard of New Fortunes (1890). The next year his Criticism and Fiction established Howells as the advocate of a new set of critical values for fiction, and the most prominent critic in the country. It was to William Dean Howells that all the struggling young writers of the new Realism turned for critical direction, moral support and approval, and a congenial sponsor who could get their works published. But in one sense Howells' greatest accomplishment (and _ living proof of his impartial versatility) was his ability to maintain intimate and lifelong friendships with such literary opposites as Henry James and Mark Twain. While both were Realists, how completely they differed, in subject, style, and personality. Yet both were eager to acknowledge Howells as a major influence in their lives and work. 786 Another proof of his great influence was his cosmopolitan literary awareness. It was Howells who first introduced to his countrymen the writings of great Continental authors. He freely acknowledged Tolstoy as the greatest single literary influence of his life as mirrored in his later novels, which exhibit a sharpened social and economic consciousness and awareness of injustices in the strike-torn 18g0's. THE EMERGING REALIST The mature Howells became the leading advocate of Realism because, as he observed his own changing values and those of the world around him, he came to believe that the Romantic literary form and vision now intruded as an artificial pretense. Early in his career he had promised himself always to "inquire into the facts with unsparing fearlessness'"; this, he felt, could be achieved if the sentimentality and over-concern for the ancient, the unusual, and the picturesque were replaced by "the romance of the real and the thrill and the charm of the common." When first he attempted writing, Howells was convinced that his new, rough homeland offered no fit subject for literary treatment, and he was embarrassed by such a lack. However, as he lived longer and observed life about him, he saw in his fellow Americans innocence, yes, but a strength, a moral courage, a goodness of life and action which had their origins in the common, everyday events which once he had felt were the very defects of American life and art! THE RISE OF SILAS LAPHAM Though Howells himself felt Indian Summer to be his best novel (and it might well be subtler and more firmly constructed), over the decades, The Rise of Silas Lapham has been the general favorite. (See text.) It fairly represents Howells and the Realistic school of writing. Having made a fortune in his rural paint mine, Silas brings his family to Boston where he and his wife Persis hope to become part of "high society." Their daughter Penelope wins the love of Tom Corey, son of one of the best families, but when the rugged Silas is invited to a formal dinner and becomes so ill at ease amid the strange, unfriendly atmosphere that he drinks and boasts himself into discredit in the eyes of all present, the match seems doomed. Silas builds a house in the best neighborhood, but it costs more than he _ had anticipated. When it burns, without being insured, and when he loses heavily in. A speculative venture, rather than compromise his honest principles, the "fall" seems complete and the family returns to Vermont. In fact, his sterling qualities have triumphed over apparent disaster. Penelope finally wins Tom Corey, and the novel ends happily. The novel is so plain that it becomes real, not by attempting to exhibit a "slice of life," but by revealing the character of a typical American businessman. In contrast to the novels of Jack London, Frank Norris, and Theodore Dreiser, which depict the businessman as a greedy, all-powerful tycoon, Howells depicts his central character as successful, and proud of it, but more nearly an LESSON DEPARTMENT actual person, neither excessively glamorized nor belittled. The first chapter consists of an interview in Silas' office between the sole proprietor of the paint firm and Bartley Hubbard, newspaperman. A short excerpt will give the rhythm and tone and characterization which are representative. Silas is explaining why he fought in the Civil War, which had ended his paint business.... I was about heart-broken... But m'wife she looked at it another way. "I guess it's a providence," says she. 'Silas, I guess you've got a country that's worth fighting for. Any rate, you better go out and give it a chance." Well, sir, I went. I knew she meant business. It might kill her to have me go, but it would kill her sure if I stayed. She was one of that kind. I went. Her last words was, "I'll look after the paint, Si...." So I went. I got through; and you can call me Colonel, if you want to. Feel there!" Lapham took Bartley's thumb and _ forefinger and put them on a bunch in his leg, just above the knee. 'Anything hard?" "Ball?" Lapham nodded. "Gettysburg. That's my thermometer. If it wa'n't for that, I wouldn't know enough to come in when it rains..." (from Howe is, WILLIAM Dean, The Rise of Silas Lapham, Houghton Mifflin Company, 1912. Reprinted by permission of the publisher. See text, pp. 681-682). The same straightforward lack of pretense is to be found in the conversation between Silas and his wife after the "Hill Ladies' have called at the Lapham residence, excusing their lateness because their coachman had never before been in their neighborhood. 'This hint left a barb which only grew larger in the minds of both mother and daughter. When she explains the cut to Silas, he then discloses to her that secretly 


 he has bought a lot on the Back Bay. "Want me to build on it?" he asked in reply, with a quizzical smile. "I guess we can get along here for a while." This was at night. Mrs. Lapham said — "I suppose we ought to do the best we can for the children, in every way." "I supposed we always had," replied her husband. "Yes, we have, according to our light." "Have you got some new light?" "I don't know as it's light. But if the girls are going to keep on living in Boston and marry here, I presume we ought to try to get them into society, some way; or ought to do something." "Well, who's ever done more for their children than we have?'' demanded Lapham, with a pang at the thought that he could possibly have been outdone. "Don't they have everything they want? Don't they dress just as you say? Don't you go everywhere with 'em? Is there ever anything going on that's worth while that they don't see it or hear it? I don't know what you mean. Why don't you get them into society? There's money enough." "There's got to be something besides money, I guess," said Mrs. Lapham, with a hopeless sigh. "I presume we didn't go to work just the right way about their schooling. We ought to have got them into 'some school where they'd have got acquainted with city girls — girls who could help them along. Nearly everybody at Miss Smillie's was from somewhere else." "Well, its pretty late to think about that now," grumbled Lapham. "And we've always gone our own way, and not looked out for the future. We ought to have gone out more, and had people come to the house. Nobody comes." "Well, is that my fault? I guess nobody ever makes people welcomer." "We ought to have invited company more." "Why don't you do it now? In the morning If it's for 788 the girls, I don't care if you have the house full all the while." Mrs. Lapham was forced to a confession full of humiliation. "I don't know who to ask." "Well, you can't expect me to tell you." "No; we're both country people, and we ve kept our country ways, and we don't either of us, know what to do." (Text, page 687). Such parental exchanges are the very stuff of life, neither glamorized nor grim, but just solidly there. Likewise Howells himself is solidly there, for those who might bother to seek him out and permit him to speak of his real world in his own terms. And whether we approach him as a personality in his own right, as social or cultural historian, as literary critic or author, if we grant him the basic privilege of sympathetic reading, judged in terms of what he was attempting to achieve, Howells then achieves a new stature as a courageous pioneer who ventured successfully into new realms of America's literary art to leave abundant proof of his right principles, keen ear and eye, and large heart. THOUGHTS FOR DISCUSSION 1. In Howells' youth where lay the true reality, in his Ohio village or in books? How does this first reality predict or relate to his later one? 2. As defined by Howells, are Romantic and Naturalistic writers false writers, or do - they merely depict another form of truth? 3. Do you feel that democratic art, as exemplified in Howells' theory and _ practice, can become so common and colorless that it is not art at all? Must art be glamorized or romanticized to be considered art? SOCIAL SCIENCE ° Divine Law and Church Government Church Government: Its Organization and Structure Lesson 10 — Priesthood Quorums and Their Function Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, January 1964 Objective: To acquaint Relief Society members with the importance of quorum organization and the obligation of quorum membership. Because the women of the Church can and do have great influence on their families, it is of the greatest importance that they understand the organization of the Priesthood quorums to which their husbands and sons belong. They must know the obligations which come with membership in a quotum, if they are to give adequate support and encouragement to the members of their families in meeting their responsibilities. The following quotation indicates the seriousness of these obligations. Wherefore, now let every man learn his duty, and to act in the office in which he is appointed, in all diligence. He that is slothful shall not be counted worthy to stand, and he that learns not his duty and shows himself not approved shall not be counted worthy to stand. Even so. Amen (D&C 107:99-100). Every ordinance, every step essential to exaltation and eternal life, is included in the power and authority of the Priesthood. It contains the complete formula for the abundant life. These things being true, it should follow that every intelligent person should be interested in and influenced by the operation of the Priesthood. PRIESTHOOD QUORUMS, THEIR MEANING AND RELATIONSHIP "The priesthood quorums [Melchizedek] are part of the revealed organization whereby adult brethren are trained and enabled to do their part in helping the Church to discharge its divine mission" (Melchizedek Priesthood Handbook, page 21). The quorum presents a most interesting social situation in regard to the loyalty of the quorum members. This loyalty can only be achieved by personal conviction as to the reality of God. 'There is no force that can command or demand this response. So far as human association is concerned, the quorum can. Be the most effective means of developing group solidarity that human beings can experience. It is built on usefulness to fellow men, based on revealed truth and motivated by love. 1. Called by Authority to Act in Church Government.