[Vol50 | October 1963 | Page 774 | Lesson | Lessons Anna | B. Hart]
You will know the capacities, skills, 770 Design Your Teaching Atds Jor the 1963-64 Lessons Anna B. Hart Member, General Board of Relief Society Teacher, Brigham Young University and interests of your sisters, the great range of differences in age and experience. You may know how their desires and talents may be directed. Your main interest is in the sisters in your class. Now what can you do to your carefully prepared lesson to add zest, interest, and color to the learning situations? You will attend Leadership Meeting regularly and will select, with the help of your stake class leader and the other resourceful ward class leaders, the best methods, devices, and Teaching Aids to learning, which, in your best judgment, will give superior results. You may use the visual aids at the beginning of the class to attract attention, or serve aS a motivator for a difficult concept. Your teaching aid should communicate vitally to each sister. You may find that only one of the many pictures and ideas which you brought to the Leadership Meeting will add the vitality to the needed learning situation. Simplicity may be the answer. The teaching aid you choose may be just the one that will enable your sisters to learn faster the spiritual message, learn more in less time, or gain double the accurate information because you re-emphasized it. You may decide to beautify a picture by placing it in an attractive and appropriate frame. You may find just the story spots in the lesson to help solve the problem of going into more detail. It may be that the remark you made when you showed the picture helped the sisters to understand better that delicate concept or hidden meaning. You, as a class leader, are well aware that there is no substitute for your own warmth, insight, and enthusiasm. You are responsible for creating a favorable learning environment. Yours is the opportunity to plan and organize the lesson, and then to select and adapt teaching aids. Your personality may help make you the capable class leader that you are, but even you might need to highlight your teaching plans, to plan your teaching aids and design them. Even you may need to extend yourself and your planned ideas. Teaching aids may do this for you. Remember again that they are just aids. They are not intended to displace good instructional techniques. 'They are most effective when employed to supplement the personality and teaching skill of you, the class leader, and to assist in helping your sisters better to assimilate and apply your messages. I+ will not be necessary in this brief discussion to list again visual and audio aids and other numerous LESSON DEPARTMENT teaching aids. Just read some of the articles to which you are referred. You are constantly surrounded by audio and visual aids. Advertisements surround us. Our homes are colored with visual aids. We are involved with various forms of mass communication. Nature gives us a Matterhorn; man's world the architect's spires of a temple. But take any one of the many aids and see if you can fit it into your lesson in a more distinctive and finished way than you have ever before done. Feel yourself in the place of your class members. Just think of the way you like to have teaching aids used. Have some been too small for you to see? Did they detract from the lesson because you saw all or several of them during the entire class? Did the class leader speak to the visual aid or to you? Did you like the picture that was hidden under the table and brought into view just after the lovely poem was read? Were you aware of the map which had been turned to the wall or placed carefully behind the piano, until the moment in the theology lesson when you wanted to see that place geographically located, after being so effectively described? Were you surprised when the class leader drew the diagram on the blackboard with such apparent ease? Were you aware that she had practiced drawing it eight times before the class met? You may not have seen that she had some tiny dots helping her to space her writing or drawing. You will find that your resources in the form of teaching aids will help you build information, improve your speaking skill, develop apprecia- 


 tion, reinforce and amplify your text discussions, extend interests, and improve the sisterhood in your classes. You are no doubt entirely aware that learning is truly most effective when great messages, insights, concepts, are enriched with concrete things that touch and sharpen the senses — that are heard, seen, felt, smelled, labeled, or discussed. You must know that this enrichment will be remembered with pleasure long after the Relief Society lesson is over. You must also become aware of the fact that the carefully selected teaching aids are not used in isolation, but are carefully inserted and interwoven with the ideas and concepts so that one is hardly aware of them. Yet the glow of satisfaction that they give during the lesson and long afterward is a pleasant memory. You must be careful that your selected teaching aids do not compete with each other or stand out as loud, clashing color. If you choose too many aids, your class may lose the objective or purpose of the lesson, and have the feeling of seeing a gaudy display, thereby forgetting the message. Your lesson preparation is especially important so that the entire experience will be a carefully designed presentation, allowing for class participation, weighing the proper methods to use for that social science lesson, using the best questions to bring out the objective or the proper way of showing that literature picture to make a lasting impression on the entire lesson, not on the visual aid. How effective will be carefully chosen visual aids in the refreshing work meeting discussions or in theology? A simple Fre but effective chalkboard drawing may communicate thoughts dynamically in the visiting teacher message presentation at the meeting. The chalkboard and other teaching aids will be very effective in exploring the organization and structure of Church government in the social science lessons this coming year. You, as a class leader, will achieve your purposes if you carefully design your visual aid for a particular lesson. Class leader, refresh yourself with a brief checklist before designing a Relief Society lesson for presentation. Does your lesson need an extension, a highlight, a map or diagram? Do you budget your time to show the visual aid most effectively? You may wish to be resourceful and make your own teaching aid. Are you using a fresh, new approach? Is your aid suited to your subject matter? Are you planning to use your aid at the climax in the lesson? Do you speak to the teaching aid instead of to the sisters? Have you removed all unrelated aids, even though you especially liked that chart? Does that poster tell your conclusion at a glance? Did you make the effort to obtain that simple, but much needed, easel? It may be the only aid you need to display that picture for the literature lesson. Did you anticipate that hook or hanger or piece of string so that you may hang a painting or chart with just one movement? Do you make a habit of filing teaching aids? Did you take the time to assist the sister who is displaying a teaching aid? Are you allowing a few minutes to introduce effec- tively that new literature portrait? Are you using that bulletin board which is already in the room? Did you make a portable one, if none was available? Did you practice using even the simplest aid for the lesson presentation? Will your lesson be enriched by the teaching aid, your sisters benefited by the instruction, and your application made more sure and vital in the lives of your sisters? Are you able to make an appraisal of your plans? Do you know how to interpret, criticize, judge, and evaluate? Do you plan carefully when a teaching aid should be used, what to use, with whom and for whom, for what and with what purpose? The conclusion of a lesson may be the time when an effective teaching LESSON DEPARTMENT aid should be displayed for a particular lesson, so that the objective will be long remembered and the application made meaningful, so that action may result in the life of the sisters, making that lesson memorable. Yes, class leader, carefully design your lesson for participation, for the extended sparkle in visual aids, to provide an overall viewpoint to liven the application. Then you will have the feeling of composure, as does the actor who has learned his part or the director who can watch his production unfold in tnumph. Class leaders, design with distinction your teaching aids. How blessed you are to be a Relief Society class leader during the year 1963-64! BIBLIOGRAPHY Articles, such as the following, have appeared in The Relief Society Magazine and are applicable, in a general way, for use this year. "The Value and Use of Audio-Visual Teaching Aids in Relief Society," January 1953, page 27, by Leone G. Layton. "Suggestions on Teaching Aids for the 1953-54 Lessons," June 1953, page 418, by Leone G. Layton. § "Teaching Aids for the 1954-55 Lessons," June 1954, page 400, by Edith S. Lott. "Teaching and Teaching Aids for the 1955-56 Lessons," June 1955, page 403, by Mildred B. Eyring. "Audio Visual Aids for 1956-57," July 1956, page 475, by Mildred B. Eyring. I "Teaching Aids for the 1957-58 Lessons," June 1957, page 398, by Mary R. Oung. "Teaching Aids-for the 1958-59 Lessons," June 1958, page 399, by Mary R. Young. "Using the Blackboard in Teaching Lessons in the Relief Society," April 1960, page 228, by William E. Berrett. "Audio-Visual Teaching Materials for the 1962-1963 Lessons," June 1962, page 456, by Alice L. Wilkinson.