[Vol50 | October 1963 | Page 783 | Lesson | Work Meeting — Planning the Use of Resources Virginia | F. Cutler]
These courses include theology, the visiting teacher messages, work meeting discussions, literature, and social science. These recordings have been prepared for the use of the blind only and will be sent free to any blind person desiring them. Requests should be sent to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, Department for the Aid of the Sightless, 47 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah, 84111. Farewell to a House Well Loved Mabel Jones Gabbott I shall take the Wedgewood pitcher from the shelf, And father's desk that stands beside the door, And this hooked rug that I once made myself, And mother's maple rocker — nothing more. Now, I must say goodbye to these stucco walls, Built by my pioneer father years ago, Must bid farewell to rooms within, and halls, And to this garden where the rose and tulip grow. For just one moment I must sit again Before the fire in the inglenook, And dream of winter days and the east wind That whipped the flames up as we read The Book. And having all these memories to hold, I shall not mind because the house is sold. 744 IMikzs. HILDA ANDERSSON ERICKSON, one hundred and three years old, is the only living Latter-day Saint pioneer woman (one who crossed the plains before the coming of the railroad to Utah in 1869). Mrs. Erickson stood alone at the annual pioneer luncheon, July 24, when hundreds of guests arose and offered her a heartfelt ovation, standing until she smilingly waved them down. Mrs. Erickson has been a business woman, dentist, missionary, rancher, and banker. ELNoRA 3B. KNOPF is a_ wellknown and highly respected structural geologist. Her specialty is rock structure, and she is an authority on many areas, including the Stissing Mountains of New York State, which she describes in detail in her newest publication "Stratigraphy and Structure of the Stissing Mountain Area." WVALENTINA TERESHKOVA, a former Russian factory worker, became the first woman in space when she was launched on a flight June 16, 1963. She orbited the earth forty-eight times in seventy hours and fifty minutes. Mizs. HEIM, fifty-six, editor and founder ALICIA PATTERSON GUGGENof the Long Island newspaper Newsday, died in New York, July 2, 1963. Daughter of Joseph Medill Patterson, famous founder of the New York News, she was also a cousin of Robert R. McCormick of the Chicago Tribune. She welcomed conflicting ideas in_ her paper, especially those of her husband, with whom she frequently differed. She was considered one of the "greats" in the newspaper world, giving her paper "vitality, courage, high readability and hardhitting investigative reporting." FF RENCH MADAME ERNEST (JULIE) ROUART still lives in and cherishes the lovely home built long ago by her parents in Paris, with all its art treasures and memories. A number of the paintings were done by the early impressionists, such as Degas, Renoir, Manet, Monet, and Mary Cassat, with whom Julie's mother Berthe Morisot Manet, was a fellow artist. 'The beautiful Berthe and her lovely daughter Julie were the subjects of many of the paintings of the impressionist colony, and quite a number of them still hang in Julie's lovely ancestral home. 745 Dorothy C. Little Miaxunc frozen TV dinners is fun and economical. You will discover dozens of ideas for variety once you have tried making them! When you are in the mood to cook, prepare three or four times enough food for your family dinner, as if you were cooking for a crowd. Just cook three or four roasts instead of one, and plenty of vegetables. It doesn't take any more heat if you fill the oven full. Make your gravy a little thin. Let the extra food cool while you are eating. After dinner, line up six or eight aluminum TV dinner dishes on the counter. Aluminum pie plates may also be used. Work on only six or eight dishes at a time. Daintily slice the meat and place servings onto the dishes, using the prettiest pieces on top and hiding the fragments underneath. Cover the meat with gravy. Serve helpings of potatoes and top with butter. To make it complete you will need one more vegetable. Choose a green one if you have potatoes. These can be put onto the aluminum plates directly from opened cans. Top with butter. If you're really ambitious, make a bread dressing (plenty moist) to go with the meat, and you will have a real feast prepared! Cover each plate securely with a piece of aluminum foil on which you have previously written a label. Seal carefully and freeze. To use, put the prepared dinners directly from the freezer into the oven, leaving the foil on. 'Twenty-five to thirty minutes at 350 degrees, and dinner is ready! Always use the biggest pot you own when you cook chili or navy beans, soup, or goulash. Use what you need for a meal and freeze the rest. (Goulash should be slightly under-cooked to freeze, and partly thawed before reheating.) The oven is the easiest place in which to reheat your frozen dishes, because the heat is more constant and even, and you don't have to stand over the stove to keep the food from buming. When you make a_ casserole, double the recipe and freeze half for a later meal. There are few casseroles that will not freeze successfully. Just wait to add any crisp toppings, like crumbs, until you reheat the dish. Freeze the food in the casserole dish or pan in which you plan to reheat it, then place the container in a pan of hot water for a few seconds. Take out the block of frozen food and wrap it as you would a piece of meat. Labe! And return it to the freezer. When you reheat it, use the same utensil in which you froze it. Quite handy! 747 Part ilEvaporated Milk Marion Bennion, Ph. D., Chairman, Department of Food and Nutrition Sadie O. Mortis, Ph. D., Department of Food and Nutrition Brigham Young University Mux may be concentrated by removing part of the water from it. Evaporated milk is whole milk which has had about half of the water removed, after which it has been sealed in a can and sterilized. Most of the evaporated milks on the market have had vitamin D added to them to increase the nutritive value of the milk. A similar amount of water to that which has been removed in processing may be returned to the milk, and the milk may then be used in any way that whole milk might have been used, as a beverage or in food preparation. Since the milk has been heated to a high temperature for sterilization, the flavor will be somewhat changed but is still acceptable, even as a beverage. Usually equal amounts of water and evaporated milk are mixed to give a milk about equal to whole milk. Evaporated milk may be used 748 without the addition of any water in many recipes. Because it is concentrated, it gives more creamy, smooth characteristics to many foods than does regular milk. Soups, gravies, sauces, casserole dishes, puddings, all have a richer flavor and creamier texture when made with evaporated milk. As with dry milk, the nutritive value of some recipes may be actually increased by using evaporated milk in its original form. For example, bread may be made with different proportions of evaporated milk and water. The nutnents especially increased by the use of evaporated milk are calcium, riboflavin, and good quality protein. The following chart shows the change in calcium and riboflavin when a loaf of white enriched bread is made with different proportions of evaporated milk and water. q fi hi Calcium Riboflavin (mg.) (mg. "" evap. Milk "2 water 404 1.3 24, evap. Milk ¥ water 462 1.4 % evap. Milk "4 water 524 1.6 The texture, color, and flavor of the bread will be somewhat different from that made with less milk or all water. The color will be more creamy and the bread more moist and less crumbly. When evaporated milk is chilled icy cold it may be whipped and used in fruit whips, Bavarian creams, salads, refrigerator desserts, and toppings. The addition of two teaspoons of lemon juice for each %4 cup evaporated milk will give a more stable whipped topping and also adds a pleasing flavor. While evaporated milk may be stored for several months, it is recommended that the cans or cases be turned upside down about every month. This prevents thickening and clotting of the milk. Since evaporated milk has been sterilized, it is a safe food supply. In the unopened can it may be kept for long periods of time without refrigeration, but as soon as the can is opened it must be kept in the refrigerator like any other milk. Evaporafed Milk Recipes White Bread "2 ¢. + 1 tbsp. Warm water 1% tbsp. Sugar 1% tsp. Salt ' pkg. Yeast, dry or compressed 1 tbsp. Oil or soft shortening *'4 c. + 1 tbsp. Evaporated milk 1% c. Flour, plus enough additional flour to make a soft dough that leaves the sides of the bowl. Measure lukewarm water and sugar into large mixing bowl. Crumble compressed or dry yeast into mixture. (Use warm water 110-115° F with active dry yeast.) Stir and dissolve. Add salt, shortening, and milk. Sift flour and add to first ingredients and mix together thoroughly. Add enough additional flour to make a soft dough (approximately 3-3% c.). When dough leaves the sides of the bowl, turn it out onto a lightly floured board and knead until smooth and elastic. It should no longer stick to board. Shape into ball 749 and place in clean bowl, grease lightly on top, and allow to rise until double in bulk. Bake in preheated oven at 400° F. For about 35 minutes. Turn out of pan when baked and cool on racks. *For additional nutritive value, the amount of evaporated milk may be increased, at the same time decreasing the amount of warm water and flour as shown below: c. Warm water c. Evaporated milk 2% c. Flour C. % c. Warm water % c. + 2 tbsp. Evaporated milk 2% c. Flour Oatmeal Bread (no knead) 2 pkg. Active dry yeast "A c. Warm water % c. Boiling water 1 ¢. Quick cooking rolled oats ' c. Molasses ¥% c. Shortening 1 tbsp. Salt *1 c. Evaporated milk 2 slightly beaten eggs 6 c. Sifted flour Soften yeast in warm water. In large bowl combine boiling water with rolled oats, molasses, shortening, and salt. Cool to lukewarm. Stir in 2 c. Sifted flour, add eggs and evaporated milk, beat well. Stir in softened yeast. Add remaining flour, 2 c. At a time, to make moderately stiff dough. Beat until smooth and gluten is developed. Grease lightly on top, cover tightly, and refrigerate at least 2 hours or overnight. Turn out onto well floured board, shape into 2 loaves, put in loaf pans. Let double in bulk. Bake about 40 minutes at 375° F. Turn out of pans when baked and cool on racks. *If nonfat dry milk is used in place of evaporated milk, use % c. Regular nonfat dry milk (or 34 c. Instant nonfat dry milk) and increase boiling water from %c. To 1% ¢. Macaroni Supreme 1 C. Macaroni 1% tbsp. Margarine or butter, 750 2 tbsp. Flour ° % tsp. Salt % c. Hot water (or liquid off vegetables) % c. Evaporated milk 1% c. Grated cheddar cheese, sharp 4 hard-cooked eggs, sliced Cook macaroni in boiling water until tender; drain. Melt margarine in saucepan; add flour and salt and stir. Cook until bubbly. Quickly add hot water, stirring constantly; bring mixture quickly to a boil. Remove from heat and stir in evaporated milk. Return to heat and bring back to boiling and cook about 2 minutes over moderate heat. Remove from heat and add grated cheese. Place over low heat and stir until blended. Place macaroni in greased baking dish, cover with sliced eggs, and add cheese sauce. Sprinkle buttered crumbs over top. Brown in moderate oven, 375° F., for 20-25 minutes. Yield: six servings. Old-Fashioned Butterscotch Pudding "2 ¢. Brown sugar Y cup less 1 tbsp. Granulated sugar % c. Flour % tsp. Salt ' c. Water % c. Evaporated milk 2 eggs "4 c. Water 1 tbsp. Butter or substitute 7 tsp. Vanilla Mix together sugar, flour, and _ salt. Add % c. Water and blend until smooth. Add evaporated milk. Place on burner and bring to boiling, stirring constantly. Cook about 2 minutes over moderate heat. Meanwhile, beat the eggs with %4 c. Water. Add the egg-water mixture to the cooked starch paste and blend. Cook over low heat for 3-4 minutes until egg is cooked. Remove from heat; add butter and vanilla. Pour into — serving dishes and chill. Garnish with whipped topping and nuts or a cherry. Or, one egg white may be saved to use as a meringue on top of the pudding. For meringue, gradually beat in 2 tbsp. Sugar and whip until stiff. Place meringue on top of each pudding and heat in 400° F. Oven until lightly browned. Yield: 4-5 servings. Ironing Whar are you thinking about when you wash your dishes? What are you thinking about when you iron the wrinkles out of your husband's shirt, when you scrub the floor, when you make the beds? I have a habit of making up sermons. Some may not be too good, but I always take the main theme from my project at hand.