Guide Lessons for January LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in January) BOOK OF MORMON LESSON 4?PROPHECIES AND DOCTRINES This lesson includes the matter between Second Nephi, chapter 25, and the end of the Book of Jacob?pages 106 to 150, inclusive. There is almost no narrative or story details in the lesson, the only thing of the kind being the account of the kings after Nephi I, the incident about Sherem, and the suggestion of difficulties between the Nephites and the Lamanites. The great bulk of the matter, as suggested in the title of the present lesson, is an explanation of doctrines. Following is a brief outline: I. The Word of Nephi. 1. Prophecies (Chapter 25-30). A. Concerning the Jerusalem of Nephi's day. B. Concerning Christ among the Jews. (1) His name foretold. (2) Rejection of him by Jews.. Concerning the "last days." (1) Coming of the Book of Mormon. To whom given. How viewed by Gentiles. Value to mankind. (2) Conditions at time book is given. (3) Times subsequent to appearance of book. 2. Teachings. A. Baptism of Christ?significance. (1) Obedience in ordinances. (2) Narrowness of way suggested. B. Reception of Holy Ghost. C. Prayer a safeguard afterwards. II. Book of Jacob. 1. Jacob receives "Small Plates." 2. Political events?kings. 3. Teachings and warnings. A. Pride over riches. B. "Fornication and lasciviousness." 4. Parable of the Vineyard. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 613 a. The parable itself. B. Interpretation of it. 5. Incident of Sherem. A. Sherem's fascination and doctrine. B. What became of it. 6. Conflicts with Lamanites. Notes ? 1. The Miracle of Prophecy. Of all the miracles we read about in sacred literature, the least explainable or even understandable is that of prophecy. Yet it was one of the commonest with the ancient prophets, whether in the Hebrew or the Nephite nation. And certainly one of the most remarkable is the one by Nephi in this lesson. For in it he tells us about Christ among the Jewish people and the Nephites, who was not to come for almost six hundred years; about the coming forth of the Book of Mormon and how it would be looked upon by the people among whom it appeared; about the religious conditions at the time of its appearance; and what would take place among the nations after its coming forth. One part of this prophecy, or rather series of prophecies, is equally striking whether we regard the prediction as being uttered by Nephi twenty-five hundred years ago or by Joseph Smith a year or so before its fulfilment. It is the statement of how the book the prophet was then translating would be received, or, strictly, rejected by the people. 'A bible!" they are made to exclaim, "a bible! We have a bible and need no more bible." As a matter of fact, that is the very language objectors to the Book of Mormon have been using for a hundred years?Christians, all. The remarkable character of this forecast would at once appear, if we should ask any author today in the beginning of his work to foretell the exact words the public will use when it is issued. 'One of the puzzling things about this attitude of Christian people towards the Nephite Record is their thoughtless inconsistency in the matter. For here they are, on the one hand, hopelessly divided religiously, a condition due to the inadequacy of the Hebrew Scriptures, and there they are, on the other hand, refusing even to consider a volume that purports to be from God and that makes 'plain what is obscure in the book they accept as the word of God. 'Oh, consistency, thou art a jewel!" 2. Nephi on Baptism. It is a strange thing that Nephi should give a discourse on baptism six hundred years before John the Baptist teaches it. Which goes to show that it is one of the oldest of the ordinances in the Church, and not at all confined to the Christian dispensation and after. But Nephi has some views on the subject that have not been sufficiently considered, even by those who have taught and  practiced the ordinance as much as we have. For instance, he gives two reasons for the baptism of our Savior, and this centuries before the event. They are, first, that Jesus wanted to set the pattern in obedience and, second, that he wanted to show how strait and narrow the Way is. (The word is improperly spelled "straight" in the Book of Mormon; in the Gospel it is given as "strait,' which means ''confined, distressful, difficult'"?very obviously Nephi's meaning.) In addition to that he throws light on the remission of sin in baptism. It is in the "baptism by fire and the Holy Ghost" that sins are remitted or forgiven, whereas we have always connected it with baptism by water; and Nephi's explanation appears the more reasonable. The prophet says nothing about faith and repentance here, but takes it for granted that they will have been already adopted by the candidate for baptism. For no one would be baptized unless he had repented first, and he would not have repented unless he had believed before that. So Nephi's exposition may be termed an exposition of the "first principles and ordinances of the gospel," and certainly it is one of the finest to be found anywhere?brief, clear, simple, easy to understand. Indeed it goes farther than the first step in salvation, for it includes the rest of the plan. And what do you suppose that is? Prayer. Nothing can go to the heart of the matter any better than that. For prayer keeps one in close touch with the divine Spirit, and keeping in tune with that, one is not likely to stray far from the path or be in a quandary what to do as one goes along. An excellent little treatise on the subject, these two chapters, and excellently worded too. 3. The Small Plates. Here is as good a place as any to take up a matter that is often found puzzling in the study of the Book of Mormon. It is the matter of plates. One gathers from several passages in the Record that the people of Nephi were taught to read, that there was popular education to that extent at least. In connection with Sherem we are told that the people "searched the scriptures," after which they "hearkened no more to the words of this wicked man." These scriptures, Orson Pratt thought, were "probably copies made from the Brass Plates"?that is, the writings which Lehi brought with him from Jerusalem. If so, then the Nephites would most likely have copies on some other material than gold plates. For Jacob (4:1) speaks of the "difficulty of engraving our words upon plates," and infers that the reason for writing on plates was "that the things which we write upon plates must remain." And he goes on to say that "whatsoever things we write upon any thing, save it be upon plates, must perish and vanish away." The clear inference here is that they did have "other things" upon which they wrote "things" that were not intended to be GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 615 permanently preserved. What these were the Book of Mormon does not inform us. Nephi began and carried on a history of his people from the time the colony left Jerusalem till his death, and requested that the work be continued by his historian successors?which was done. This work was on what he called the "larger plates," and covered mainly political events. But as he went on, he was requested to make "smaller plates," for a "wise purpose" in the Lord of which he, Nephi, was in the dark, and on these he was to record the distinctively religious history of his people?prophecy, doctrine, religious development, miracles, revelation, and so on. And this he did. This "wise purpose" did not come to view till Joseph Smith translated the golden volume, in 1829. With Martin Harris as amanuensis, he translated the first leaves of the larger plates of the book?which covered one hundred sixteen pages of manuscript. This manuscript Martin Harris lost, and the Prophet was advised not to attempt a re-translation but instead to substitute the "smaller plates" for that part of the "larger plates" of the regular record. Thus it is that we have "the more religious part" of the Book of Mormon to begin with?the first one hundred fifty-seven pages of our present volume. As for the rest of our book, it is nearly all an abridgment of the general record of the Nephites, made by a man named Mormon, who lived toward the close of the Nephite nation?almost a thousand years away from the first Nephi. This is why the Nephite Record as we have it is called the "Book of Mormon." Between the "smaller plates" of Nephi and this abridgment is an introductory chapter, called the "Words of Mormon." So that the Book of Mormon in its present form comprises (1) the small plates of Nephi, (2) an abridgment of the general history of the Nephites by Mormon, (3) an abridgment of the record of an earlier people called Jaredites by Moroni, son of Mormon, and (4) some closing chapters by Moroni. 4. The Sealed Book. In our present lesson Nephi calls attention to a point in connection with the golden volume delivered oy Moroni to Joseph Smith, which deserves a paragraph or two ere. That book, as we know, consisted of two parts?one of free leaves, about two-thirds, and another of leaves that were sealed, about one-third. Only the unsealed part was translated by the Prophet. What was the sealed part about? When are we to know its. Contents? Nephi answers these questions in a general way in our text. The sealed part of the book, according to our authority, is "a revelation from God, from the beginning of the world to the ending thereof." It was not translated by the Prophet and its contents made known at the time because of the "wickedness and  abominations of the people.' Moreover, "the revelation which was sealed shall be kept in the book until the own due time of the Lord, that they may come forth; for behold, they reveal all things from the foundation of the world to the end thereof." Then these words of the sealed part "shall be read upon the house tops; and they shall be read by the power of Christ; and all things shall be revealed unto the children of men which ever have been among the children of men, and which ever will be, even unto the end of the earth." Hence the Latter-day Saints have something to look forward to in connection with the Book of Mormon. After Joseph had finished translating the Record, he gave the plates, sealed and unsealed, back to the angel, "who has them to this day." So that when the time comes for the part which was sealed to be made known, the book will be available for the purpose. It is a very interesting world in which we live. Questions 1. Tell about the sealed and the unsealed part of the Book of Mormon. 2. Explain the larger plates and the smaller plates of which Nephi speaks in the text. 3. What was the "wise purpose" in the making of the small plates? 4. Give the substance of Nephi's discourse on baptism. 5. Why is prophecy miraculous? Would it be a good thing for us to know all about what is to happen to us before it comes? Why? 6. Is what is prophesied bound to happen because it is foreseen? Or has the foreseeing of it anything to do with making it come to pass? Explain in the light of Martin Harris's episode and the small plates. 7. What does Jacob have in mind when he speaks of wives and concubines? LESSON II Work and Business TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JANUARY (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in January) CHEERFULNESS I. Cheerfulness implies a bright and equable temper and shows itself in the face, the voice, the action. GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY ol7 Il. Cheerfulness a Gospel Doctrine. 1. Men are that they might have joy.?III Nephi, 2:25. Faith promotes cheerfulness; repentance assures us of it; the Gift of the Holy Ghost gives utterance through a cheerful heart. Scriptures admonish us to be cheerful. Serve the Lord with cheerful heart and countenance.? Doc. And Cov. Sec. 59:15-18. Be of good cheer, it is I? Matt. 14:27. Be of good cheer, Paul.?Acts 23:11. A merry heart doeth good like a medicine?Proverbs 17:22. Ill. Cheerfulness a Positive Power in Character Building. Be It can be taught and learned. Serenity of mind comes easy to some, hard to others. Teach the duty of happiness as well as the happiness of duty. Let the child feel the joy of doing some kind act each, day for some one else, and to express his feelings to you, his mother. Encourage children to sing and whistle at their work, to see the funny side, to look for and tell a good joke as Abraham Lincoln did. Cheerfulness is as contagious as measles. Children are sensitive to the emotional moods of the family. How essential, then, for parents to be cheerful. Cheerfulness dispels gloom and doubt. Cheerfulness in the home is to children as sunshine is to flowers. If people only knew the medicinal power of laughter, of good cheer, of the constant, unrepressed expression of joy and, gladness, then half the physicians would be out of work IV. Cheerfulness an Asset in Winning Success. It is the bright and cheerful person that wins the final triumph. Everybody avoids the company of those who are always "blue." Be an optimist; cheerful people are welcome in any group. "Fate served me meanly but I looked at her and laughed, That none might know how bitter was the cup I quaffed, Along came Joy and paused beside me where I sat, Saying, 'I came to see what you were laughing at. ? 99  LESSON III Literature (Third Week in January) A SON OF THE MIDDLE BORDER By Hamlin Garland Hamlin Garland, author of A Son of the Middle Border and many other novels, poems, and articles, was born in Wisconsin in 1860. His birthplace was a frontier farm; his parents were pioneer people who were wresting from the wilderness a meager living. Before young Garland was eleven years of age, the family had moved three different times ever westward to more thinly populated territory. Like frontier boys of our own state, Garland attended school only a few short months during the winter, but finally graduated from the Cedar Valley Seminary, Iowa, after which he taught school for a few years. Becoming interested in literature, the young man finally went East to Boston, where he met a number of literary men including William Dean Howells. Beginning to write, he soon was making a fair living. His Stories Are Stirring After he had been somewhat weaned from the West, he returned to visit his parents and family. The prairies took on a new light. He saw the drudgery and the hopelessness of farm life as it was then. Returning East, he wrote a book of short stories, which he called ''"Main Traveled Roads." This book was published in 1891. These stories, in the opinion of many people, still rank as Garland's best, for he was at home in them and spoke out of a sore heart. Fred Lewis Patee says: "What Mrs. Freeman did for New England, Hamlin Garland did for the Middle West, the only difference being that Garland was the pioneer depicter of his middle border farm lands and Mrs. Freeman was the last of a long line of story tellers dealing with Yankee life." "His pictures grip the imagination like Zola's," Mr. Patee continues; "they do not depress, they anger, they stir the blood, they call for action." Garland has written a number of strong poems also. Though he is now a man 69 or 70 years of age, he is still at work. Few of the things he ever wrote can be loved for their sweetness, but they can all be admired for their strength and vigor. Anyone who has been reared on a farm any place in the West will find in Garland's A Son of the Middle Border, a partial relation, at least, of the story of his own life. In this story of a pioneer GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 619 family, Mr. Garland has given us pictures of farm life that in color and realism have never been equaled in any other literature that I have read. Gives Both Sides of Farm Life Usually those who know little about farm life have been the ones who have romanced about it. James Whitcomb Riley, for instance, a youth who never spent a day on the farm in his life except as a visitor or on-looker, gave us "When the Frost Is on the Pumpkin" and other similar poems; true pictures, certainly, but revealing only one side of farm life. Mr. Garland has given us in a masterly manner both sides. On account of his realism, Hamlin Garland has been classed with the writers of protest. His Matin Traveled Roads, a book of short stories mentioned in A Son of the Middle Border, reveals, as no other stories have ever done, the sordid side of farm life, the drudgery, the struggle. In fact, they have been important in bettering conditions on farms. They are the "Uncle Tom's Cabin" of the farmer and his wife and children. So austere were they that even many farmers said they were overdrawn; but they served to hold up before the American people the hopeless condition of the farm folk. Fred Lewis Patee in his American Literature Since 1870, says of A. Son of the Middle Border, "It is an autobiography and it is more; it is a document in the history of the Middle West. It has a value above all his novels, above all else that he has written, saving always those tense short stories of his first inspiration." Typical Pictures of Men and Boys In this book we have an excellent picture of Garland himself, and in addition some epic pictures of his relatives, fearless and fine pioneers of the Middle Border. The Garlands, the McClintocks, and a few of. The neighbors are drawn with a masterly hand, as are the farm scenes that adorn the pages of this most interesting volume. "The Old Soldier," Garland's father, is a typical pioneer such as are found in scores of homes in our own intermountain West, yes, in practically every family. Few of us who read the book will lay it down without saying, "This man Garland was just like father," or Uncle Jim, or some other of our relatives or friends. Ever looking beyond the sunset, ever eager to engage in the struggle with virgin sod, ever determined to make next year pay, Mr. Garland was just like many a "Mormon" pioneer who has written history in the sage and soil. David McClintock, especially, is another picture of a great man that will haunt the reader. Big, brave, but artistic of soul,  he was not especially made for the prairie, where his lot was ever cast and where he played a losing game. A dreamer who could not bring himself steadily to fight the grim battle expected of him, he saw his less talented yet thriftier neighbors increase in property as he declined. That story has been told a thousand times on the frontier, where there never is a variety of employment. The misfits are always pathetic though lovable and fine. Hamlin Garland is called a realist, a writer who sees the romance of life, but penetrates it and tells also of the realties. As is indicated in this book under consideration, he was a worshiper of Howells and Walt Whitman, brief portraits of whom he gives in his masterly manner. The very fact that The Hoosier School Master was so keenly enjoyed by this middle- border boy would indicate, perhaps, that in his own writing he would turn rather to realism than to romance.
"This Land of My Childhood"
The whole gamut of a farm boy's likes and dislikes is run in this book?from Thanksgiving on the farm to milking cows in muddy weather and fanning wheat by hand. Nothing, or very little, at least, is left out. The author's memories are so strong upon him that he bursts out, after describing a country Thanksgiving visit, "It all lies in the unchanging realm of the past?this land of my childhood. Its charm, its strange dominion, cannot return save in the poet's reminiscent dream. No money, no railway train, can take us back to it. It did not in truth exist?it was a magical world born of the vibrant union of youth and firelight, of music and the voice of moaning winds?a union which can never come again to you or me, father, uncle, brother, till the coulee meadows bloom again unscarred of spade or plow."
That nature, surrounding the boy on the prairies, had its effect upon him is indicated by passages like this one taken from Chapter Eight: "Meanwhile above our heads the wild ducks again pursued their northward flight, and the far honking of the geese fell to our ears from the solemn deeps of the windless night. On the first dry warm ridges the prairie cocks began to boom, and then at last came the day when father's imperious voice rang high in familiar command, 'Out with the drags, boys! We start seeding tomorrow'."
In the latter part of the book the budding author and school teacher is more and more in the East with his work; but his heart remains in the West despite the commiseration he feels for his family when he returns to visit them.
Garland's Own Life Is Portrayed
The Son of the Middle Border is his autobiography. It begins with his very early youth when his father, a soldier in the Civil War, returns home at its close to take up life where he had
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 621
left it off. The story pictures the Garlands and the McClintocks, a family of which Hamlin's mother was a member. It then goes forward picturing the grim struggle with poverty on one hand and the stubborn virgin soil on the other as the family moves westward, ever westward, until they at length reach North Dakota. Young Garland obtains an education through self-struggle. And with a little help prepares for teaching. Eventually he goes East, where he meets a number of authors whose influence leads him to attempt to write. His first productions were what we would now call feature articles; later he began writing short stories and novels with the farm life of the Middle Border as the backgrounds. With these he was very successful, for the reason that he had struck into a field which had never before been used to any great extent by writers. His parents grew poorer and poorer on their big homestead in Dakota until at last the successful young author returned, induced them to sell their farm and return to Wisconsin to a home he had awaiting them.
"The first question which you have a right to ask me is this: Is it true?" says Mr. Garland in a foreword addressed to "My Young Readers." He replies, "My answer is as direct as your question, It is." Since this book will probably be in every public library and in most high school libraries and since an excellent edition may be obtained for $1, I shall not attempt to quote more from it. My suggestion would be for the one who gives it in the class to have the book with her well-marked in order that she may read striking passages or passages that give good pictures of these pioneers of the Middle West who, after all, are much like our own pioneers. Some of the farm scenes might be read and discussed as well as passages of beauty such as are found at the close of chapter fifteen, in the middle of chapter twenty and elsewhere. This book, as printed in "The Modern Readers Series," has questions and helps at the back which may prove helpful.
Questions and Problems
1. Who is Hamlin Garland? Why has he a right to picture farm life?
2. How does he rank as a writer of short stories and novels?
3. Are his pictures of farm life too grim?
4. Why might his stories be called the "Uncle Tom's Cabin" of farm folk?
5. Read "Under the Lion's Paw" and "Up the Coulee" and "Among the Corn Rows;" then comment upon their pictures of farm life.
6. Read passages that to you were especially impressive.
7. What effect has the life of Hamlin Garland had on the west?
 
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in January)
THE FIELD OF SOCIAL WORK
Lesson 1. THE NATURE AND SCOPE OF SOCIAL WORK
We now begin a consideration of the six lessons devoted to the Field of Social Work. The purpose of this and the five lessons which follow is to acquaint our members with the nature and scope of social work as an endeavor to promote human happiness. We shall, of necessity, have to be brief. Class leaders and others will find the references cited in these lessons helpful in elaborating the subjects treated. The six lessons will include (1) the nature and scope of social work, (2) poverty and dependency, (3) physical and mental diseases, (4) physical and mental defects, (5) crime and delinquency, and (6) the organization and administration of social work.
WHAT IS SOCIAL WORK?
The following definitions are selected from among the best and most representative:
Social work is not a clearly defined single field corresponding to a single need, but includes many diverse occupations which have as their tasks to supplement the work of the other professions. For example, the school visitor supplements the work of the teacher; the public health nurse the work of the physician; the family visitor the work of parents; the Bureau of Personal Service, or Legal Aid Society, or probation officer, and the settlement worker is found on many kinds of committees. (Tufts, Education and Training for Social Work, Russell Sage Foundation, 1923.)
In the United States of America "social work" has come into use in recent years as a comprehensive term, including reformation and all other conscious efforts, whether by the state or on private initiative, to provide for the dependent, the sick, and the criminal; to diminish the amount of poverty, disease, and crime, and to improve general living and working conditions. (Edward T. Devine and Lilian Brandt, American Social Work in the Twentieth Century.)
Social work is the business of producing, changing or adjusting social organizations and procedure in the interests of human welfare according to scientific standards. (L. A. Halbert, What is Professional Social Work? The Survey, New York, 1923, page 25.)
Perhaps the nearest we can come to a definition is to say that social work is the art of adjusting personal relationships, of helping to overcome the difficulties which may arise?for example, between native and foreign born, between employer and employee,
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 623
between school and home. (Stuart A. Queen, Social Work in the Light of History, Lippincott, Philadelphia, 1922, page 18.)
WHAT FORMS DOES SOCIAL WORK TAKE?
There are many ways of classifying the various fields of social work. As a matter of fact, there is no one exact way. The following, for instance, is a classification of the fields of social work based on their relation to various institutions and to society as a whole. It is the work of Tufts, in the book cited above, page 24.
1. As related to the Family:
Care for the family as a whole, Family Welfare Societies,* Home Service of Red Cross, Public Welfare Departments doing "case work" in families.
Care for special types of adult or adolescent individuals such as deserted wives, unmarried mothers, the aged; Domestic Relations Courts.
Care for children, in their own homes, through child-placing agencies, through protective agencies, in institutions.
Housing, considered from the point of view of the homes of families, and of men and women not in families.
Visiting housekeeper or visiting dietitian.
2. As related to Government:
Civic agencies designed to organize public opinion for reform or improvement of government or for co-operation with it, reform leagues, city clubs, committees of various sorts with professional executives or secretaries.
Offices of government, particularly in the administrative departments which have to do with giving relief, with mothers' pensions, with factory legislation and child labor laws, with institutions for the care of the blind, the insane, the sick, the dependent and the delinquent. The Children's Bureau, juvenile research bureaus.
The legal field, including especially the juvenile court, with its agents; probation officers, and parole officers; legal aid societies, for aiding discharged prisoners; societies which include both public officials and others interested in penal problems, such as the American Prison Association and its various affiliated societies.
3. As related to Economic Institutions:
Agriculture, county agents, home demonstrators, leaders of boys' and girls' clubs, such as poultry clubs, corn clubs, and the like.
Commerce, associations of commerce, chambers of commerce, in so far as these take an interest in community problems.
*The L. D. S. Relief Society would be classed as a family welfare society.
 
Industry, employment management, arbitration procedure, nurses, recreation leadership, administration of workingmen's compensation, labor unions (in certain aspects.)
4. As related to Hygiene and Medicine:
Public health, including physicians, inspectors, nurses, laboratory workers, and other officials.
Special fields, anti-tuberculosis campaigns, tuberculosis sanitaria, social hygiene committees and leagues.
Visiting nurses.
Hospital social work.
Nutrition work (which might be included also under care for children or under work of home demonstrators in the rural field).
Psychiatric social work.
Mental hygiene.
5. As related to Organized Recreation:
(This is analogous to 3 above in that Recreation like the economic field is supposed to be primarily left to individual initiative, but is found to need attention from the point of view of social and public interests.)
Recreation for children, playgrounds, summer camps.
Recreation for young people and adults, club work, gymnasiums, community music, pageants, dramatic presentations.
(Recreation cannot be sharply defined from the fields of hygiene, of education, and of ministration to the higher community life through the nobler arts.)
6. As related to Education and the Arts:
The school as social center in both rural and urban districts.
The work of school visitor or visiting teacher.
Vocational guidance.
Providing scholarships for children otherwise unable to remain in school.
The public library.
Clubs for study, reading, parliamentary practice, debate.
Boy Scouts, Campfire Girls.
Education of special groups, such as immigrants, workers, illiterate adults, et cetera.
Education in music, and the graphic and plastic arts.
7. As related to Organized Religion:
Work of the church or synagogue along similar lines to those noted under 1, 4, 5, and 6 above.
Work of the Young Men's Christian Association and Young Women's Christian Association, Knights and Ladies of Columbus, and the Young Men's Hebrew Association for young people in cities.*
*The Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, and the Primary Association naturally fall into this group.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 625
Rural work of the church.
Community work of the Young Men's Christian Association and Young Women's Christian Association.
Industrial work of the Young Men's Christian Association and Young Women's Christian Association.
Work of the Salvation Army, Volunteers of America.
8. As related to Institutions for cultivation of Friendship or Mutual Aid:
Clubs for children and adolescents.
(Certain types of social work are not comprehended under any of the above classes. The reason why they cannot be placed in relation to some one institution may be either because they supplement several institutions, or because they aim to supply some need or to promote some end for which society has not as yet organized any specific institution.)
9. Activities for certain groups, racial, geographic, occupational, which combine several of the fields above named:
Work with immigrants, with the Negro, with the American Indians.
Specially organized work for the mill village, the mining community or the lumber community, or for homeless and migratory groups.
City clubs, community centers, the Country Life movement.
10. The Settlement.
A second method of classifying social work is that of listing the various types of work done in a typical community. The following list, taken from the charities directories of New York and Philadelphia, presents a cross-section of social work. The multiplicity and range of social-work activities will readily be seen.
1920 New York Philadelphia Agencies having to do with health...............412 224 Child welfare agencies..........................233 147 Settlements,* social centers and housekeeping centers...................................227 60 Relief societies...............................180 102 Societies for civic and economic betterment by means of surveys, investigations, education of the public, etc................157 36 Adult homes...................................136 112 Agencies for obtaining or providing employment..................................123 46 Special educational opportunities, agricultural, musical, etc......................118 71
*The Neighborhood House is perhaps the best example of a settlement that we have in this region.
 
Philanthropic agencies with a predominantly religious purpose.............................96 191 Agencies interested in naturalization, colonization and work for immigrants.........91 28 Correctional and protective agencies.........81 54 Societies serving special groups.............81 60 Negroes..................................29 36 Soldiers, sailors, or their dependents....25 10 Clergymen................................8 Medical men..............................7 Indians..................................5 Artists..................................4 Firemen..................................3 Recreational facilities.....................63 88 Banking, loan and saving societies..........23 10 Milk stations, diet kitchens and lunch rooms.20 23 Conferences and federations which include social work agencies......................12 20 Legal Aid societies.........................11 7 Societies for the protection of animals......9 14
A third method is illustrated by the divisions of the National Conference of Social Work, an organization of social workers which meets annually in various parts of the United States to consider the current problems and practices in the field.
Division I?Children. Division II?Delinquents and Correction. Division III?Health. Division IV?The Family. Division V?Industrial and Economic Problems. Division VI?Neighborhood and Community Life. Division VII?Mental Hygiene. Division VIII?Organization of Social Forces. Division IX?Public Officials and Administration. Division X?The Immigrant. Division XI?Professional Standards and Education. Division XII?Educational Publicity.
HOW IS SOCIAL WORK RELATED TO THE OTHER PROFESSIONS?
Measured by the accepted standards of a profession, social work and social workers are truly professional. In the first place social work and social workers have no ulterior purpose in their work. The client in social work, as the patient in medicine, is the center of attention. His interests and his welfare are always uppermost. In the second place the field comprises a definite body
GUIDE LESSONS FOR JANUARY 627
of principles and practice for which training is necessary. In the third place the profession is controlled by its members and all who are identified with it are governed by a democratically-evolved set of ethical standards. In these respects and in many other ways social work is on a par with law, medicine, engineering, nursing, teaching, etc.
Social work is both auxiliary and a separate field of activity. It is auxiliary in the sense that many of its services are the logical extensions of already-existing professional activities. As has already been suggested, the medical social worker, for example, might be viewed as an auxiliary to the physician; the legal aid worker as an auxiliary to the court; the visiting teacher as an auxiliary in the school, etc. And yet, in a very real sense, social work is a distinct profession, coordinate in rank and independence with the traditional professions just mentioned. Thus, the service of the family case worker is altogether unique and is auxiliary to no already-existing profession or field of endeavor. This is also true of many other social workers, such as the community organizer, the public welfare administrator, the social executive, the social investigator, etc. In these respects then we have a new profession calling for education and skill, the equal of that required in law, in teaching, and even in medicine. Proof of this fact is the existence in the United States today of over twenty schools?most of which are connected with colleges and universities?for the professional training of social workers.
To be sure, a great deal of social work has been?and still is?done by intelligent, untrained volunteers. The tendency, however, is more and more in the direction of professional training. There are, however, many forms of social work which can be done by volunteers working under the direction of trained social workers.
One of the outstanding features of Relief Society work is the stupendous service which has been rendered by thousands of intelligent Christian women whose chief equipment for their work is their general education, their common sense and their love for their fellowmen. It is unnecessary to add that this work is greatly appreciated.
Questions
1. In what respect do the definitions for social work given above differ from one another? What is your own (or your class leader's) definition?
2. What are the specific problems attacked by social work?
3. What social and economic conditions have brought social work about?
 
4. How is social work related to alms giving? How does it differ?
5. What are the specific forms of social work in your community?
6. How does the procedure of a trained social worker differ from that of an untrained volunteer?
7. What are some of the commoner objections to professional social work and social workers? How valid are these objections?
8. What, in your opinion, are the qualifications for a social worker, on the side of (a) personality, (b) education, (c) training?
9. What problems in your community might be better solved if the services of trained social workers were available?
References
(In communities where there is a public library, stake officers will do well to ask the local librarian to secure and place on reserve the following books.)
1. Karl De Schweinitz, The Art of Helping People Out of Trouble; Houghton, Boston.
2. Stuart A. Queen, Social Work in the Light of History; J. B. Lippincott and Company, Philadelphia.
3. Alice S. Cheyney, The Nature and Scope of Social Work; American Association of Social Workers, New York, price 50c.
4. The Annual Proceedings of the National Conference of Social Work; University of Chicago Press, Chicago, Illinois.
5. Robert Kelso, The Science of Public Welfare; Henry Holt and Company, New York.
6. The Survey (published twice a month).