Pioneers By Lais Vernon Hales Back-Trailers From The Middle Border?Hamlin Garland In this the fourth and closing number of his "Trail" books, Hamlin Garland completes his fine record of the development of the Northwest as experienced by the members of a single representative family?his family. The three earlier books told vividly and so honestly of pioneer days and of Mr. Garland's own youth in the West. In Back Trailers from the Middle Border he tells how, in middle life, he took the back-trail to the East?the place whence his father began his western march?and completed the circle. Mr. Garland feels that in taking the back-trail he and his family are as typical of our times as. Our fathers were of theirs. He feels that the age of physical exploration is almost ended. "The average man of today is too gregarious to be a pathfinder. * * * The love of crowds, the wish to live in great centers, is well-nigh universal. If all the people who wish to live in New York were able to follow their inclination, we should have a city of twenty millions instead of seven." It is this growing power?this rushing together of those who love cities?that brought the Garlands to New York, where with occasional interesting trips to New and Old England, they reside. On the physical side Mr. Garland hates the city. He "loathes its bad air, its ugly brick walls, its noise, and its ever present garbage _cans; but he finds in it the intellectual companionships which he craves.' Deep down in his consciousness is a feeling of guilt, a sense of disloyalty to his ancestors; but it is not strong enough to alter his course. Mr. Garland feels that to outline the dangers of the city is only to add to its charm and appeal, and accelerate this world-wide moving, seeking, integrating. As his first three books embody the spirit of the pioneer, so his last book shows clearly, and I believe honestly, the centripetal forces that are drawing old and young to the large cities of the world. Coming from "a land where nothing is venerable," Mr. Garland appreciates fully the shrines of our cities. He feels himself at the source of legend when he visits Washington and Mount Vernon, where America's first great president dined and slept. He feels keenly the pathos of Martha Washington's last days in the little attic room, whose window looks out over the grave of her illustrious husband. Garland laments the decay of the pioneer spirit in himself. He no longer cares to pioneer, even in the literary sense. He has no desire for further hardship. Yet he senses deeply the beauty of the pioneers and pays tribute again to their solid, sterling qualities.  Of the Middle West he says, "Confident, ready, boastful, it is for a time only. It is tragic or it is humorous (according to the observer) when a people so hopeful and so vigorous dies out upon a plain as a river loses itself in the sand." Of the pioneers, he says, "That our forefathers and our foremothers lived in a world as real as our own and with far greater hardships is true. It is probable that their hours of rejoicing were fewer than ours, and yet I shall go on believing that they enjoyed a more poetic world than that in which I live and that they had more courage and less enfeebling doubt." Back-Trailers from the Middle Border is rich in references to the "intellectual companionships" which Mr. Garland values so much and which are primarily responsible for his back-trailing. He likens the life of an author to a man digging for gold. Once your vein "pinches out, nothing remains but to climb from your shaft and hunt a new lead." One of the first men Garland met after he moved to New York was William Dean Howells, now old and not at all well, of whom he says, "In the tones of his voice, I detected the wistful resignation of hopeless age." Mr. Howells was troubled about the life after death, and he and Mr. Garland exchanged views on the thought of the old Saxon poet who figured the life of man to be like the coming of a swallow out of the dark into the light of the house for an instant, and then on into the night again. John Burroughs, a revered friend and later a neighbor of Mr. Garland's, is mentioned often, with love and understanding. Of his "intellectual companionships" in Europe, those of Maurice Hewlett, Joseph Conrad, A. A. Milne, and James Barrie are the most vividly and fully given. As one reads of these delightful companionships with the greatest men of his time, one can understand how the finely grained, charming, gentle Hamlin Garland was drawn eastward from the land of his pioneer forebears. To those who have not experienced the hardships incident to pioneer life, Mr. Garland's appreciation of his home "in the land of Rip Van Winkle" will perhaps seem far-fetched. But Garland has had much of poverty and illness in his life and he enjoys the feeling of security which he experiences in the city. He has granted the heroism of the pioneer, praising also their loyalty and patient hardihood. About this book there is the sadness of something completed. For fifteen years Hamlin Garland has been working on this series of books and now with Back-Trailers from the Middle Border his story is told and his face is turned to the fireside and the past. But what a past! Though he has his moments of doubt and wondering as to whether the irritations of the subway and the tumult of the pavement are adequate returns for the loss of mountain dawns and prairie sunsets, we feel sure that he will happily blend them and rest content.