[Column 2]
but, alas, the time had fled, and very soon 
the guests would arrive.
	The library adjoining the parlor was pre-
pared for the bride and groom to receive
the congratulations in. The bay window
was embowered in beauty even before the
happy couple stood there under the yoke of
green coptis leaves, smilax and roses, with
the figures 1874 and 1899 in silver at oppo-
site corners.
	The bride wore a white satin gown
covered with white silk tulle, embroidered
in silver bow knots, and carried a lorgnette
of pearls, a delicate ivory fan and pale pink
and white roses, with long stems, fine
white slippers with silver clasps, and lace
and silver ornaments in her dark hair. She
looked quite as lovely, but not as shy, as on
her wedding day twenty-five years before.
The bridegroom was attired in the regula-
tion black broadcloth and immaculate linen
collar and cuffs etc., and white silk tie.
	The two daughters wore black silk tulle
over black satin bespangled with brilliants
and profusely trimmed with real lace.
Many of the ladies of the party were very
elegantly gowned, and the gentlemen were
in evening dress, even the military officers,
except one or two young Lieutenants, who
wore their handsome uniforms.
	The parlor, hall and dining room har-
monized in decorations with the library,
carnations, roses and chrysanthemums,
fragrant and abundant, in every nook and
corner.
	There were many handsome and some
very exquisite (silver) gifts, many of them
from other states, as well as a number given
by the fifty or more guests present.
	Besides other delicious refreshments
daintily served, there was a large wedding
cake with the significant figures that marked
the date of the former happy wedding party
in the “dear old home” on State Street.
	Alas, how much has transpired in this
quarter of a century!
	There was some fine instrumental music
by one of the gentlemen, and Mrs. Daisie
Allen rendered in her fine, sympathetic
voice, two or three songs. Mrs. Verona
Hillard afterwards sang some light, airy
melodies, and the “Little Mother,” by
urgent request, read the verses composed
en route.
	The guests when departing, each in turn,
in the most elaborate language and with
hearty good will, hoped the host and
hostess might live to celebrate their golden
wedding anniversary in prosperity and
happiness. The party certainly passed off
pleasantly, and it will assuredly be a happy
memory in the lives and hearts of those
whose anniversary was thus celebrated, be-
cause of the warm fellowship and kindly
feeling manifested by all assembled.
		
