[Column 2]
tion. She was in constant fear of Dr. 
Gannett. His searching gaze seemed to 
penetrate beyond the disguise she wore.
She dared not follow him farther, so when
orders came for moving she pleaded sick
leave and was left behind. She was to
care for others as soon as she recovered,
which was shortly. Dr. Gannett remon-
strated at the ill luck that separated him
from the youth who so deeply interested
him. He said as much to him, but only
met with a cool rejoinder, bidding him do
his duty and follow his regiment. When
he was gone and Deborah was quite re-
covered, she began to care for the sick and
wounded. She was placed in charge of
one special soldier who was very ill. They
were lodged in the family of a Dutchman,
Van Tassel by name, and a Tory to boot.
	Deborah suspected as much and was on
the alert for action. Van Tassel had a
very pretty daughter, Mina. She was be-
trothed to David Brenton, Deborah’s
former lover. He had gone over to the
Tories.
	So far Deborah escaped detection, for she
was changed since he saw her, bronzed by
the sun and worn from hardships. She
avoided him as much as possible, and he
showed no signs of recognition, but mani-
fested an insane jealousy of her attentions to
Mina, as they presumably came from a
handsome young soldier. But Deborah
continued them, thus finding out the secret
meetings of the Tories, who met at Van
Tassel’s house.
	On a dark night she made her way to the
American camp and disclosed the plot to
the Colonel. He immediately ordered a
party of men to aid her, putting her in
command. She rushed off boldly with
them, surrounded Van Tassel’s home just
as a meeting was in progress and captured
fifteen Tories. In the midst of the fray
Deborah found that she was being attacked 
by Sergeant Brenton.
	She parried his sword thrusts as best she
could. But his skill was too much for her
and he gave her an ugly gash, inflicting a
wound which opened the old one.
	She staggered, nearly falling, but she
overcame her weakness. Her coat was
colored with blood. The flickering candles
in the kitchen, where they fought, threw a
light on her pale, determined face.
	“To the death!” she called out to her
comrades as they wavered a second. “Don’t
let them go, my men. On, on to victory!”
	She rushed madly at the Sergeant again,
who by this time was thoroughly incensed
and was fixed in his desire to kill his
assailant. His thrusts became surer.
	Suddenly he observed the young man’s
appearance, the bedraggled uniform, the
disordered hair matted with blood from a
scalp wound, the wide open dark eyes, a 
strange memory stirred him. He had seen
the face before. Where? And then it 
was clear to him. He saw a girl at a win-
dow in the moonlight, looking down at
him. He held back his sword and grasped
the boy’s wrist and bent closer. Scanning
him mercilessly, Deborah read recognition
in his eyes. The room swam about her. 
	“My God,” he said, “who are you?
Speak.”
	She nerved herself bravely for the
answer, leaning against a table. The
other combatants were fighting outside now
and they were comparatively alone.
	“Speak,” he repeated.
	“My name is Robert Shirtliff,” she said
boldly.


