[Column 2]
“Here lieth * * * chaplain of the perpetual
Chantry, founded at the Altar of the Blessed
Virgin Mary, by Walter Hungerford, Lord
Hungerford * * * who died the 5th * * *
on whose soul may God have mercy.
Amen.”
	The stone was raised a few years ago,
and the skeleton of a young man, with
teeth quite perfect, was discovered. Time
is slowly doing its work of decay. Even
the helmets have large holes forming in
them. There are many spears as well as 
breast plates.
	A pew that belonged to the ancient
church, is about six feet long and nine
inches wide, carved into chairs for each
person. One could not think of the wor-
shippers of those days going to sleep in
such a pew as that. I think it would take
him all his time to keep in it.
	The place is damp, green on the steps
leading down to it. This is only one of
the instruments used to carry out the de-
cree, “All things shall perish.”
	The Mausoleums are very finely sculp-
tured, these being in the inner Chantry,
and others near the channel. The full 
features are fine and clearly cut, showing
the gentlemen much as they are today, and
the ladies beautiful and delicate. I looked 
over the moat of the old castle, and was
told that the water for it used to come from
seventy miles away.
	A visit to the crypts, whose steps were
green with moss. Looking through the
bars, the leaden coffins, some large and
some small, meet the eye. A chill as of
death was about the place. After peering
into the semi-darkness and discovering that
the coffins looked like stone, sunken in the
middle as the bodies crumbled to dust, we
hastily sought the clear open air, leaving
the dampness, darkness and death with a
shudder.
	In the city of Frame, not far distant, is a 
very old church; originally it was Saxon,
built by S. Aldheine, probably on this site,
about the year 680, A. D. It has been
altered and restored many times. First in
the 12th century, during the reign of
Stephen. The north and south doorways
and porches of the present church were
built then, also the doorway in the Ladye
Chapel.
	In the 13th century the Chapel Arch, the
tower and arcade of the nave, as far as the
porches, and probably the walls of the nave
were built. 
	In the 14th century, the western portion
of the arcade, the remainder of the isles 
and the west font was added.
	In the 15th century the roof of the nave
was raised, the clestory added, the tower
raised and a roof loft constructed.
	The Ladye Chapel was originally built in
the reign of Stephen, rebuilt in the reign of
Edward III, and restored during the in-
cumbency of Rev. Bennett. The Chapel
of St. John the Baptist, on the north side
of the choir, was founded in 1337, but is 
now used as an organ chamber.
	The Chapel of St. Andrew, on the south
side of the choir, was founded in 1412. It 
was restored in 1844 in memory of Bishop 
Ken.
	The Chapel of St. Nicholas, near the
north porch, was founded in 1517, the latest
portion of the whole church now used as
the baptistry.
	The restoration was begun in the year
1852, and completed in 1866. On a brass
plate on the door many of the names given

[Column 3]
above are inscribed; also “Glory be to God
alone in Christ.”
	There are many objects of interest. Old 
carved stones in the east wall of the belfry,
with some images at the west end. S.
Aldheine, the founder, S. Alban, the pro-
martyrs of England. S. Andrew, the patron
of the Diocese, and S. George, the patron
of our country.
	The windows of the nave illustrate the
life and death of St. John the Baptist; also
illustrations of the life of St. Nicholas, in
the lower compartments.
	The window of the St. Andrew’s Chap-
el includes a kneeling figure of Bishop
Ken, and a representation of the Bishop
entertaining numbers of poor persons at
his weekly feast. The east window is
very beautiful indeed, and illustrates the
sufferings of Christ which ended in the 
crucifixion; a picture of St. John the
Evangelist, with a caldron of oil; also
some of the miracles of Christ. These
windows throw such a hallowed light
through the church, that one stands with a 
feeling of awe, looking upon them and the
scenes they portray.
	This is a Church of England, but it is
called High Church, the incense burning
day and night in six red glass censers. The
confessional is being introduced, or re-
established again, leaving only the celi-
bacy of the priests to be Roman Catholic as
before, and to that church the Church of
England is rapidly tending; and not many
years hence, it looks as though it would be
swallowed up in the Catholic Church.
	These red censers are being brought
from Rome, and are to be seen in many of
the churches now. 
	Outside under the east window, is Bishop
Ken’s grave, also the late Vicar’s. A stone
wall encircles the upper side from the 
church which gradually slopes down to the
street in steps or terraces. On each terrace
is a scene from the life of Christ cut out in
stone, the figures standing boldly out from
the background. Cradled in the manger,
the flight into Egypt, teaching the doctors
in the Temple, calling His disciples, the
Sermon on the Mount, His agony in
Gethsemane, His betrayal, trial before
Pontius Pilate, then carrying the cross, one
picture where he stumbled beneath the
weight of it, where He sank down, then
where Stephen carries it to Calvary. These 
scenes are strikingly portrayed where he
stumbled and sunk down is particularly
touching. Then the scene of the cruci-
fixion: it is a beautiful theme, and the soul
of the artist is stirred within him.
	All around the church are numberless
dead of long years ago The town is built 
up all around the church and the bustle of
life goes steadily on, with scarcely a
thought of the sleepers just beside it. Un-
told numbers of England’s dead sleep in
the cities and towns, so long ago some of
them passed to the other life, that the
letters cut in stone have become obliterated
by Time, whose unerring finger points to
the end of all things earthly. Who shall
name them? The breeze as it sighs among
them, whispers “Who?”
	Trowbridge, July, 1899.
