EDITORIAL NOTES.
	MRS. J. ELLEN FOSTER, Attorney at
Law, visited Salt Lake City the first week
in November.
	THE November meteors which were ex-
pected on the 14th or 15th did not material-
ize very satisfactorily, although elaborate
preparations were made by astronomers in
many observatories. A few have been re-
ported from different localities, but not
more brilliant than have been observed at
unexpected occasions. Possibly in the year
of our Lord 1900, the prediction may be
fulfilled, at least, that is the general idea of
of those scientists who investigate the
heavenly bodies and phenomena.
	IT is announced that the young Queen
Wilhelmina, of the Netherlands, has given
her word to the Kaiser of Germany that
she will wed none other than the Crown
Prince Frederic William of Germany. Wil-
helmina is a year and nine months older
than the Crown Prince, she was nineteen
years old August 31, and he will be eigh-
teen years old May 6, 1900. A report has
been current that she was engaged to Prince
Ferdinand Joachim Albrecht of Prussia.
	THE Hon. Joseph Chamberlain, Secre-
tary of State for the Colonies, in a speech
at a luncheon at Leicester, said the country
owed a debt of gratitude to Lord Salisbury
for the great improvement in Great Britain’s
position; and also remarked upon the exist-
ing relations of America and England, say-
ing: “The union, the alliance, if you please,
the understanding between these two great
nations, is indeed a guarantee of the peace
of the world.” He also made reference to
Germany in unmistakable terms, and in-
ferred there would be “a triple alliance be-
tween the Teutonic race and the two great
branches of the Anglo Saxons that would
be a potent influence in the future world.”
He spoke also of newspaper articles which
“had not spared the almost sacred person
of the Queen.”
	AMBASSADOR CHOATE, at the Thanksgiv-
ing dinner of the American Society, at the
Hotel Cecil in London, made a significant
speech on the present situation and the
keynote of which was the spreading of
American commerce, alluding to America,
Great Britain and Germany as the “three
great commercial nations of the world.” He
had asked a very brilliant woman what to
take for a basis of his remarks, and her
reply was, “Let England and America join
hands across the sea, and the peace of the
world will be assured.” In regard to the ex-
pansion of America the Ambassador said:
“I think we all agree with the declaration
of our Secretary of War, that the Pacific
cable ought to be laid by America from

