SPECIAL MEETING AT HEBER CITY.
	Minutes of a special meeting held in the
Heber City Stake House, September 23, 1899.
	Meeting opened with singing “An angel
from on high.” Prayer by Christy Giles.
Continued by singing, “How firm a
foundation.”
	President Anna R. Duke spoke but a
short time, as she desired to hear President
Zina D. H. Young, of Salt Lake City, who
was present.
	President Young addressed the sisters:
“Sisters be faithful and watchful, guard
against faultfinding and never let your chil-
dren hear you speak disrespectfully of any
one, or find fault with the authorities of the
Church. I was present at a meeting in
Nauvoo and heard the Prophet Joseph
Smith say in a discourse, ‘I now turn the
key of knowledge for women.’ Women
have filled an important position in the
Church since that time, and will continue
to do so. It is now over sixty-three years
since I was baptized. I have seen many
changes. We are not working under a
mere belief, but we have the blessing of
assurance. We are sure of a reward if we
prove faithful. It is our privilege to
understand the Gospel. We should study
and read something every day from good
books. Teach your children the principles
of the Gospel, the Gospel is the bread of
life. Let the children learn of the peace of
the Gospel at home. The Lord has great
blessings in store for His handmaidens.”
Sister Young closed her remarks by saying
she desired to hear the sisters talk and
asked the blessings of God to be with
all.
	President Anna Duke introduced Sister
Elizabeth Buzzo, from Salt Lake City, who
made a few remarks; also Sister Catherine
Archibald, of Snyderville, who spoke a
short time.
	Sister Ann Murdock bore her testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Sarah Bond made a few remarks,
also Christy Giles.
	President Anna Duke thought we were
blest to have a sister with us who had seen
the Prophet Joseph Smith.
	Sister Wilson, from Midway, said she
knew Aunt Zina when she was a young
girl. She had lived in President Young’s
family for a number of years, and Aunt
Zina’s every day life was an exemplary
one.
	Sister Zina Young spoke a short time.
Her remarks were on the early rise of the
Church, and the blessings in store for those
that prove faithful.
	President Hatch was very glad to see
Aunt Zina. He had known her since he
was a boy of about ten years of age. Said
the Relief Society was one of the most
helpful organizations in the Church. Asked
the blessing of the Lord to be with all.
	Sister Anna Duke gave all who wished a
chance to shake hands with Sister
Young.
	Meeting closed with singing “Praise to
the man.” Benediction by Sister Ruth
Hatch.
	Sister Zina shook hands with one hun-
dred and twenty-six.
			ALICE M. LAMBERT,
							Act. Sec.


The dark today leads into light tomorrow,
There is no endless joy, no endless sorrow.


