[Column 1]
causing him to go away that the attachment
might be thus broken up. The morning
that he left for other lands, she went to the
river and drowned herself. These things
should never occur in our day of common
sense.
	But here we are at the bottom of Farley
hill. Getting out we slowly ascend the
grand archway leading into the castle, al-
most tottering into decay, but, no doubt,
supported by the luxuriant ivy, that is
grown and interwoven through and over it
all.
	The castle in the days of its glory must
have been an immense structure. One por-
tion stands, in which are three fire places,
on as many different sides, which must 
have been rooms.
	In the upper story of this also, the ivy is
dense and twining it all around. One
more entrance, which might have been a
grand door once, on the opposite side, is all,
except portions of walls, that is left of the
castle. The church, a little lower down,
still stands in a fair degree of preservation,
being inside and beyond the castle. Enter-
ing (the guide at the door for the fee) we
see more armor and helmets than I have 
seen anywhere else, hanging all over the
walls. It must be Norman armor, as the
church is certainly Norman, and was built
in the 11th century. The stained glass
window over the altar, though somewhat
worn, is not nearly so grand as those of more
modern churches. While the pictures are
beautiful, they are much smaller than any
others that I have seen.
	On a stand in front of the altar is an old 
Bible whose letters, though English, al-
most look like some foreign characters. It 
is in a glass case under lock and key. On 
one of its open pages its history is briefly
told in writing:
	This is a copy of the First Edition of Barker’s
folio, authorized version, and was printed in 1611.
The Edition is known as the Great “He” Bible,
from a printer’s error, at Ruth III, 15th verse:
“He went into the citie,” instead of “She went,”
&c. This book has been much mutilated by visitors
to the building abstracting sheets and otherwise
defacing it. Being in a dilapitated condition, it
was re-sown in March 1899, and is now placed 
under lock and key.
	The castle formerly belonged to the noble
Hungerford family, who, no doubt, were
Normans. The arch is Norman, as also
the baptismal font in the church.
	Two chairs that belonged to the chapel,
black almost with age, still are there on
either side of the chancel; also an altar
of like wood and design, all being magnifi-
cently carved in curious characters. Christ 
hanging on the cross, with candlesticks on
either side, where the candles have been 
long removed.
	The pulpit is almost intact, save a hole in
its top where a stone from the ceiling
came crashing through. A copy of a letter
said to be the handwriting of Oliver Crom-
well is shown.
	The tombs are those of the Hungerford
family, inscriptions being in Latin. Trans-
lated one reads: “Here lieth Thomas
Hungerford, Knight, Lord of Farley, Wil-
low and Haytesburg, who died 3rd Decem-
ber, A. D. 1398. On whose soul God have
mercy. Amen.”
	Walter Hungerford was the personage
celebrated during the reign of Elizabeth, as
the rural and hospitable knight of Farley
Castle. The maxim, “Time trieth truth,”
appears to have been his favorite adage.
	On another tomb is written in Latin:

