[Column 1]
well as our first, and be diligent in season
and out of season
	President Horne made some further re-
marks about the training of nurses, and that
it should be under the auspices of the
Relief Society. Felt very thankful it had
been such a success in this Stake. The
sick should be taken care of by experienced
sisters.
	President Mary A. Call, of Bannock
Stake, asked some questions about the
financial matters, which were answered
satisfactorily. She made some very appro-
priate remarks and urged all to faithfulness,
also to be humble.
	President Young alluded to the society
everywhere observing the 17th of March, and
was sure a blessing would follow. Referred
to the Prophet turning the key of knowl-
edge for women and the wonderful things
that had since transpired. “Remember
what blessings have been pronounced
upon the handmaids of the Lord since that
day. I feel as though I was looking upon
the faces of the angels when I look at my
sisters and know what they have passed
through and endured and borne, and the
sacrifices they have made. Let us live so
that we may know what is best for us.”
	After some instructions in reference to
tithing, which were in answer to questions
that had been asked by the sisters from a
distance, the congregation joined in singing
“Praise to the man who communed with
Jehovah.”
	The secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells, stated
that President Jane S. Richards and Presi-
dent Sarah J. Cannon were both absent
from the conference, detained at home
through sickness in their families, and re-
quested that they be mentioned in the
closing prayer, and that all unite their faith
in behalf of the sick, that they might be
restored to health.
	Benedicton was pronounced by President
Horne.
	Afternoon session, 2 p. m. President Zina
D. H. Young presiding, opened with sing-
ing “Our God we raise to Thee.” Prayer
by President F. A. Hammond. Continued
by singing “For the strength of the hills.”
Minutes of afternoon session of the April
conference read and accepted. 
	President Mary Pitchforth, Juab Stake,
reported everything favorable of the society
except Eureka, which it was intended to
reorganize very soon. She rejoiced in the
work of the society and the Latter dispen-
sation of the fulness of times. Gave some
items from her experience and alluded
briefly to the time when Apostle Woodruff
came to England and baptized nearly all the
society of United Brethren, and she, a
young girl, offered herself for baptism. Her
family were all opposed, but she had been
thankful then and ever since that she heard
the true Gospel and had been able to en-
dure all trials and persecutions, and had
been abundantly blessed.
	President Mary John, Utah Stake, made
an excellent report of work accomplished,
and referred to the quantity of grain stored
and the good feeling manifest throughout
the county when she visited the Stake.
	President Lucy Grant, Woodruff Stake,
reported the society in good condition, had
visited all the branches during the summer.
They held officers’ meetings regularly.
Theirs being a new Stake, they had not yet
commenced to lay up grain, but intended to
this fall.
	Counselor Angeline Hinckley gave a

