		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	On the death of Sister Julia A. Tanner. 

   Sister Julia A. Tanner was born in Willough-
by, Ohio, Nov. 24, 1839, and died in Beaver City,
May 15, 1899.
   WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father has seen fit to
call from our midst a kind friend, sister and co-
laborer, Julia A. Tanner, be it 
   RESOLVED, That we strive, as a band of workers


and fellow associates, to emulate her example;
that her death has caused a vacancy in our midst,
and her loss we deeply feel.
	RESOLVED, That we realize that God calls from
our midst our esteemed associates and friends; that
He doeth all things for the best, and we must be
resigned to His holy will.
	RESOLVED, That we cherish her teachings as a
wise counselor, a loving mother, a friend to the
poor and needy, and a faithful member in our
society.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon our record book, one be given to the
bereaved family, and one sent to t e WOMAN'S
EXPONENT for publication. 
JANE BICKLEY, Pres.
MARY T. WHITE, Sec.
	JANE ST. CLAIR GILLIES.
	Jane St. Clair Gillies was born in Flin, Perth-
shire, Scotland, May 5, 1816, She was the daugh-
ter of Daniel and Ann St. Clair, and was married
to Robert Gillies in 1843. She joined the Church
in Scotland while quite young, and emigrated to
this country in 1856, crossing the plains in Daniel
Jones' handcart company. She settled in Session’s
Settlement, and from there moved to Salt Lake
City, then to Beaver, where she remained. She
died in Circleville, August 28, 1899, while visiting
with her daughter.
	Sister Gillies was the president of the first
Primary organized in Beaver City, March 17,
1880. She was a continual worker from then
until the beginning of her sickness.  
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS, God in His infinite mercy has seen fit
to call from our midst our beloved sister and co-
worker, Sister Jane St. Clair Gillies, be it
	RESOLVED, That, as members of the Relief
Society, we emulate her example and put into
practice the many kind teachings and the advice
given to us by her.
	RESOLVED, That we strive, as a band of sisters
and workers, to follow in the footsteps marked out
for us by her example, which she ever tried to put
into practice and set forth to her many friends and
associates.
	RESOLVED, That we ever remember the patience
our sister had in her long sufferings; she was never
known to complain in all she had to pass through,
and died as she had lived, a faithful sister, a true
mother and a loving friend to all.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication,
one be put on the Beaver Relief Society record
book and one given to the bereaved family, to
whom we extend our heartfelt sympathy.
JANE W. BICKLEY, Pres.
