[Column 1]
A WOMAN MISSIONARY.
	[Mrs. Addison Pratt on the Society Islands
1850.]
			(Continued.)
	Singing hymns (the natives can sing
nothing else) is a great source of happiness
to us. A portion of our time every eve-
ning is spent in this amusement.
	When Mr. Layton returned from Tahiti,
he brought with him a young girl with a
view to rescue her from a life of sin, and to
watch over her for good. She is a sweet
singer and looks innocent, but has had no
teachings from her parents to warn her to
shun temptations. I would like to have a
large house; and have means to take all
such poor, abused children under my im-
mediate charge. I look upon this poor
girl’s intelligent countenance, listen to her
pleasant voice and think how lamentable
that she must be sacrificed to the base pas-
sion of ungodly men. Had I no daughters
of my own, I would adopt her, and teach
her to be chaste and pure; but she would
be a dangerous companion for those young-
er than herself; there is something ensnar-
ing in her looks. The two little girls we
have in our family are very amusing. They
sing with energy, as if they felt the thrill-
ing effect of their own music. I look upon
them with admiration. 
	September 20. Last night our rest was
disturbed by the sickness of Brother Lay-
ton’s wife. The Elders were called up to
administer to her by the laying on of hands.
Her little sister sleeping in my house was
awakened to go with all the relatives and
sympathize, whether the person is danger-
ously ill or not. Such is their custom,
even to a fanaura (a birth) all must be
present.
	This morning a sister from Ravaivai,
called and inquired for Ellen. It was her
niece, she said, who had made friends with
our daughter, when she visited that island.
For that reason she called Ellen her grand-
child, and land belonging to her niece, she
affirmed, was Ellen’s. Such is their cus-
tom when two make an agreement to be
friends. Whatever property they possess
belongs equally to both, and must not be
withholden in case it is needed.
	The 9th day. This morning a native
sister sent in haste for the Elders, having
been taken alarmingly ill with the cramp
cholic. Mr. Pratt had a few days before
refused to administer to her and her hus-
band, on account of their using too much
tobacco, upon which they were both re-
baptized and covenanted to use no more. I
nursed her, anointed her with oil and the
Elders laid on hands in the name of the
Lord, and she soon recovered. Poor
creatures, they know nothing about nursing
each other; children they are in knowledge.
They repeat everything from their teachers,
they set no bounds to their abilities. Sacri-
fices and self-denial they consider necessary
adornments; powers of mind to supply their
wants and assist the needy, they think
should be qualifications of all the servants
of God. They are liberal with their means

