[Column 1]
SPEECH OF MISS ANTHONY.
AT QUEEN’S HALL, LONDON, JULY 29, 1899.
Mrs. President, Officers and Members of the
	Suffrage Societies of Great Britain and
	Ireland and the world over:
	I wish I might be worthy of the honor
which Mrs. Phillipps gave me of being one
of those who, more than fifty years ago,
assembled in the little town of Seneca Falls,
New York, and made the declaration that
the right to vote is the under-lying right,
the one which protects all other rights.
But I was not there. Lucretia Mott was
there, and Martha C. White, whose daugh-
ter sits beside me, and Elizabeth Cady
Stanton—all signers of the call for that first
Convention. I hear all these women and
the men also, asking “Why is it that when
this first proclamation for the ballot was
made in the United States more than half a
century ago, other countries are getting
ahead of us?” Well, I can assure you
there are many reasons. It is not from any
lack of hard work and persistent effort on
the part of the handful of women who have
stood at the front of this movement in our
country; but the complications are very un-
like those in your own country. Suppose
that here in England, after all your labors,
and after all your magnificent champions—
from John Stuart Mill and Jacob Bright,
down to Mr. Begg—had worked in your
Parliament for years, had urged enactment
of a law, and succeeded in getting it through
the House of Lords, that the question then
had to be voted on by every elector in the
mines, the factories and the rural districts
of England, how much would you expect
to get all at once? And that is the difficul-
ty with us.
	Our revolutionary Fathers proclaimed
equal political rights. At first they made
practical application to a very few men only,
and during the more than a hundred years
battle in our country, those great principles
have been gradually extended to one class
after another. In the beginning only
Church members voted, then only rich men,
then only white men, then only men; that
is, we had an aristocracy of the Church; then
an aristocracy of men of wealth; then an aris-
tocracy of white men, and last we now have
an aristocracy of men. We are simply de-
manding today the application of our funda-
mental principle of political equality to the
other half of our citizens. We are asking
for nothing now, but simply for the prac-
tical application of the old doctrine that was
declared by Hancock and Adams and all
the old revolutionists, who rebelled against
King George because he insisted on taxing
them without giving them the right of
representation. We are insisting today that
the men of the United States shall no long
er continue to violate their principles—to
tax women and deny them representation.
We have what you might call forty-five
Englands: that is, we have forty-five States,
and each State Legislature must first pass a
resolution submitting the question to be
voted upon by the men of that State. We
have succeeded in gaining the franchise in
four states of the Union by this slow pro-
cess.
	Another hindrance I want to mention to
you: every single year over a quarter of a
million of foreign born men are landed on
our shores, fresh from the monarchies of
the Old World, who know nothing at all of
the Declaration of Independence, of the
principle of free and equal government,

