REAPER’S CLUB.
	The Reaper’s Club held its first meeting
after an adjournment for the summer, at
the EXPONENT office, Templeton, on Sep-
tember 11, 1899.
	A very interesting paper was read by
Mrs. Amelia Woolley Wardrop, on the life
of Benjamin Franklin. She mentioned
incidents in his early life that exerted an
influence upon his character and energies,
and that were instrumental in making him
successful in the midst of unfavorable sur-
roundings. At one time he published the
Pennsylvania Gazette, in which he wrote
some important articles, etc.; also published
an almanac in 1733, that was quite a won-
derful work in that day, and commenced
the study of languages. He afterwards
occupied positions of trust, and was sent to
England and France to perform important
services for his country. He invented the
lightning conductor, by discovering the in-
fluence exerted by the electric current while
flying his famous kite. He was one of the
signers of the Declaration of Independence.
He died in 1790, at the age of eighty-four
ears.
	Mrs. Mary L. Morris gave a sketch of
the life of George Stephenson, inventor of
the railroad locomotive.
	These subjects were discussed by mem-
bers, and the many wise sayings of Frank-
lin, and his wonderful career, were talked
of; also Stephenson’s genius and inven-
tions.
	The club met again on September 25,
and after transacting some considerable
business, a program was rendered.
	First, a short but instructive sketch of
the life of Robert Fulton, by Mrs. Ida
Haag, his early life and orphanage when a
boy. Fulton constructed some famous iron
bridges, and also invented a diving boat,
but the name of Robert Fulton became
most famous as inventor of the steamboat.
He died in 1850, and was buried near Trin-
ty Church, New York.


The club program concluded, as it al-
ways does, with mentioning current events,
which, at the present time, are quite im-
portant.
				J. A. DRUCE,
						Act Sec.

	On October 23, the club was addressed
by Mrs. Annie Lewis Johnson, on the sub-
jects of self culture and hygiene, of which
she herself is an able exponent.
	President Zina D. H. Young was present,
which was a great pleasure to the ladies of the
club, as of late her many duties have pre-
vented her being with us except now and
then. Her name heads the roll of honor of
the Reaper’s Club, among whom are also
President Jane S. Richards, President
Bathsheba W. Smith and President M. Isa-
bella Horne. Though we rarely have their
presence to grace our meetings, yet we ap-
preciate their coming whenever it is pos
sible for them to attend.


