		OVER THE MOUNTAIN.
	After a week spent with the dear ones at
Wallace we must needs go over to Murray
to pass a few days. The journey has to be
taken by stage, or in private conveyance,
twenty-two miles over a mountain road
through mining camps, and winding around
high mountains. At this late season the
scenery is not so beautiful as when the
woods are green, or when the frost has
tinged the leaves and shrubs with all the
bright hues possible to imagine. The rain
had been pouring for a few days and the
mud made it difficult driving. Some im-
provements were noticable, a fine three
story mining mill at Monarch, the first

[Column 3]
place of human habitation after leaving
Wallace, except the shanties for miners, far
up the mountain side, with tunnels here
and there, and from appearances one would
imagine every vein of gold or silver in the
mountains had been opened.
	The woods were fragrant of the pine per-
fume, notwithstanding the other varieties
of trees were bare, tho’ here and there the
fiery red berries of the mountain ash bright-
ened the woods, and occasionally the flash
of the sumach showed in the distance.
	On the summit of the highest mountain
we take a survey of the road behind us,
trailing around and around through the
timber, and wonder how we could have
passed the teams on the way; and we ob-
serve the new railroad, “Sixteen to One,”
which is being built to haul ore from the
great Sunset mine. This opens another
roadway among the monarchs of the pine
forests.
	When the ride is about half com-
pleted we come to Beaver Station, where
weary travelers may rest and be sure of a
good meal. The hostess had just come in
from hunting with her gun. She had shot
a pheasant, and was plucking the feathers
as we drove up. There was nothing bold or
mannish in the appearance of Mrs Horban,
though evidently she knew how to use a
gun to some advantage; and she also lives
where women have equal political privileges.
Her two little girls were at Delta in school,
two or three miles further on, where they
are taken every morning and brought home
after school hours. Delta seems to be more
of a mining village than Beaver, more
houses, stores, saloons (these abound where-
ever mines are worked) and at the school
house, as we passed through about half
past two, children were out for recess, and
one could not help wondering where they
all lived. Farther on was Myrtle, another
of the small towns in this vicinity, and
more tunnels and gulches, and by and by a
graveyard, the notice on the high gates
signifying it belonged to the “Union,” and
of course, no other “need apply.” Pritch-
ard creek had been in sight for some time
and Tiger Gulch on the opposite side
and we began to see signs of Murray,
which lies between high mountains covered
with timber and where the pines are al-
ways sighing and the waters murmuring.
	In this little vale there has been much
gold discovered and placer mining has been
carried on to the amount of many thousands
of dollars, and in the early settling here
there were lively times. It was also the
county seat of Shoshone County until about
a year ago Wallace succeeded in having
the business of the County removed there,
as it is more accessible and has increased
faster in population and influence. There
is some mining still going on in Murray,
and the Mother-Lode, a famous mine which
has made several fortunes for its former
owners, is still yielding its yellow dust and
considered valuable property. Hydraulic
works are established here, and north of
the mine is Eagle, another mining settle-
ment, somewhat dilapitated. On the south
is Littlefield and Daddyville, where there
has been mining in former days, if not so
successful now. Chess is a mine still in
operation, with “great expectations” of its
near future.
	To one only sojourning temporarily there
is a sort of restfulness in the singing of the
pines and the murmuring of many rivulets;
and to one whose thoughts come more
readily or of dreaming, there is abundance


of time, about eighteen hours a day of
candle-light. The one drawback to posi-
tive enjoyment is that it rains and one can-
not indulge in walking, or even riding
through the pines, as on other occasions
when visiting up here earlier in the season
	There are some lovely little dells, and
cottages of logs nestled down among the
woods, where women live secluded from
gossip, assuredly; women who have fol-
lowed their husbands who had come to seek
fortunes imbedded in these mountain for-
ests. And these women have political
privileges not enjoyed by some of the
dwellers in large cities.


as a pleasant remembrance of two happy
parties in Wallace.


