[Column 2]
Shakespearian period, and that is no doubt
the object.
	The Parish Church near by, was not so
different from many other churches except
for its history. This is the church where
the great Shakespeare was baptized on April
26, 1564, and as it was usual to baptize at
three days old, the 23rd of April is regarded
as the birthday of the great poet. The rec-
ord reads Gulielmus filius Johannes
Shakespeare.
	It has been remodeled considerably, but the
situation is fine, on the banks of the historic
river Avon, a placid stream overhung with
magnificent trees. At the hour we climbed
to the top of the tall steeple, the river was
dotted with pretty little skiffs, and girls and
boys in yachting costumes, merrily singing,
chatting and laughing, leisurely rowing
along the shores a picturesque sight, fit
for a poet’s pen or an artist’s brush.
Portions of the church are said to date
from the time of the Conquest, and to have
been built on the site of an old Saxon
church. Some parts have been pulled
down, rebuilt and beautified. Altogether
its history is interesting, but a description
of the church would take too much space
and is not strictly a part of our visit.
	From there we wended our way to
Shakespeare’s house, low and rambling,
where we were shown the chimney corner
so famous for the many recollections of fire-
side conversation. It is said that at this
chimney corner of Shakespeare’s father,
who was Councilor and Bailiff, two of the
highest positions in the town council, all
sorts and conditions of men gathered to dis-
cuss the affairs of town and state; also the
gossips, who only talked of commonplace
matters, and travelers who brought the
news of the great world. This house,
where Willie played in his infancy and
childhood, is visited by thousands of pil-
grims every year.
	After wandering through the rooms in
the Shakespeare house, and reflecting upon
the many incidents one has heard and read,
one feels scarcely fit to mingle with the
fresh, breezy people of the world; neverthe-
less, when the twilight was coming on,
and we were turning corners and angles of
the crooked streets, we came upon “Ye
Halle Crofte,” where the lady of the Falcon
had told us Marie Correlli was lodged,
writing two books, also that she refused
absolutely to see any one. However, when
one has traveled seven thousand miles one
is not easily discouraged at trifles, so we
made bold to lift the great brass knocker.
A porter in livery opened the door, and
when he saw only a timid little woman,
seemed greatly astonished. The errand
was soon made clear, and he said he would
do his best to procure an interview, and to
come at. 9:15 or later, considering the cir-
cumstances. Leaving a card for the great
author, we hurried to overtake our friend,
who was still wandering among the old,
historic places.
	After dinner or tea (one cannot always
remember which) we donned our best
traveling apparel, and, at the appointed
time, again lifted the brass knocker, and
the same fine porter opened the door and
his face was wreathed in smiles when he
said, “My lady will see you.”
	The house is quaint; there are three gables
front and everything betokens peculiarity.
The great beams overhead in the entrance
room, which one would judge had been a
living room, are lettered. The first to at,
tract the eye, immediately facing the door-

[Column 3]
is a welcome to all who enter here, in sort
of scriptural style and old-fashioned letter-
ing, but it makes one feel welcome, though
the place is almost sacred from association.
The house was formerly the home, of Dr.
John Hall, who married Susanna, the
elder daughter of Shakespeare. It is very
sweet to be so warmly received by a great
author when one is far from home, and
totally unknown except by name, as was
the writer of this sketch by this lovely
woman, whose books have, made her fa-
mous the world over. She came forward to
meet her caller with all the grace of a real
Duchess, and was as elegantly dressed. She
wore heavy white silk with a profusion of
white lace, and jewels that were dazzling;
also pearls upon her fair neck, which was
white as alabaster. Her abundant wealth
of golden auburn hair was dressed low, and
fell about her brow and temples in loose
tresses. She was beautiful as a dream of
summer, and her face was like sunshine,
her teeth like pearls and her lips ruby
red. Remembering her, one cannot wonder
she can write, and that she is musical, the
marvelously sweet tones of her voice would
tell you that. We talked freely of books
and places. She said she dreaded the ocean,
so she feared she could never visit America.
She sent for coffee and refreshments, and
served them herself in the daintiest fashion
in the finest Sevres china and silver service.
She gave the writer her autograph and said
in the most positive manner: “O, now,
Mrs. Wells, you must have my two books
am busy writing how. That is why I
can’t see people, every day I, should be
thronged with visitors.” When we in-
quired the titles, or what her books were to
be called, she told us they were not named
yet.
	She chatted freely of herself, her great
trouble, her brother’s death, her own
health, the crisis she had passed through
safely when she had been attended by a
woman doctor, and how anxious she was to
have everyone know how successful the
doctor had been in the case. She also was
profuse in her admiration of Halle Crofte,
which she would like to purchase; and of
the Falcon, where we were staying, and of
Ann Hathaway’s cottage, told us what we
must be sure and see in both these places
referred to the old church and the River
Avon, with its boating; insisted we must
have seen her rowing at twilight in a boat
on the river, when we were gazing down
from the church steeple; described her dress,
a simple white muslin and a white straw
sailor hat. Rowing is a pastime for which
she seemed to have the keenest enjoyment.
	It was a very great pleasure to meet this
charming woman, who has certainly a
striking personality, and once in her pres-
ence, one is not likely to forget the power 
of her fascination.
	Early the next morning we walked
through the lanes that led to Ann Hath-
away’s cottage. A delightful day; the fields
were thick with clover, daisies and red
poppies, and the wicket gates and green
hedges were more real than we could have
imagined by reading of them We were
there before the opening time, nine o’clock, 
so loitered about the quaint flower garden,
and curious thatched-roof cottages were
near as well as the Hathaway house itself.
It is reputed to be this footpath that
Shakespeare must have wandered over to
meet his lady-love in the soft twilight,
quiet and luxuriant, about one mile from
Stratford along the paths to Shottery, with


its old-fashioned gables and half-timbered
houess. On the way there is a little road-
side inn called “The Sheakespeare.” Trees
are heavy with foliage, almost embowering
the houses. Down the lane you cross a
little brook a few yards from the house,
which is a long thatched tenement of wood
and plaster. On the central chimney, cut
into the stone and let into bricks, is en-
graved the letters J. H., and date 1697.
The house is divided into three apartments.
There is a passage between two of them;
the room on the right has a chimney ex-
tending the whole width of the house, with
an oven, and boiler; this is the kitchen.
The rooms are ceiled with strong, heavy
beams. The present resident is a grand-
daughter of John Hathaway Taylor. Over
the parlor is the bedroom, up rickety stairs,
where there stands an old carved oak bed-
stead, elaborately and tastefully executed,
certainly as old as the Shakespeare period,
and handed down as an heirloom with the
house. The old lady of the house, nearly
ninety years of age, declares she slept in it
from childhood, and was always told it had
been there ever since  the house was
built. 
	The Shakespeare house, New Place,
Guild Hall and Grammar School, where
Shakespeare was taught, will be sufficient
for another short sketch (as this is already
too long), about our visit to Stratford-on
Avon.


