[Column 1]
OBITUARY.
HELEN RIDLEY WEBB.
	Mrs. Helen Ridley Webb was born in the City
of London, England, May 29, 1815, and died in
Salt Lake City, Utah, U. S. A., September 22,
1899. Her father, William Ridley, was descended
in a direct line from the famous Nicholas Ridley,
Bishop of London, crown chaplain in the 16th
century, an eminent and learned Divine, distin-
guished not only in the annals of literature and
art, but in the higher and perilous fields of social
and religious reform, at a period when superstition
and fanatacism bound the very souls of men, and
often sealed in silence the lips of such as fain
would be champions of right and humanity, or
doomed them to the dungeon and the stake, where
terminated the mortal career of Bishop Ridley.
But the fires of bigotry which consumed his body
only served to set at liberty the undying spirit of
human right and religious freedom, which we find
bursting forth again, though in a modified degree,
in the life and character of Helen, who, like her
great ancestor, became early in life impressed with
the idea that the religious sects of the day had
deviated from the original plan of human redemp-
tion, that some vital principle was missing from
the perfect scheme. While in this form of mind
she met with the Mormon missionaries early in
1850. She carefully investigated their doctrines,
and became convinced that they possessed that
which had been missing, and forthwith identified
herself with them.
	Her husband, Samuel Whitehead Webb, to
whom she had been married July 10, 1836, also
embraced the same faith, and for a time ran well,
but his ardor cooled, his faith failed and eventual-
ly he stepped aside altogether. Then she realized
to its fullest extent what it is to stand alone, but
her strength was equal to her day. She conse-
crated herself and her future, and commenced her
life’s work in earnest.
	One of her first moves was to suggest, and, with
aid from the proper authorities, organized a Sab-
bath School at Camden Town, London, in the
year 1854, which proved a complete success, and
in it she labored diligently until her emigration in
1877.
	She was the mother of tweve children, six sons

