GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.
	The October Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Salt Lake Assembly
Hall, in this city, Thursday, October 5,
1899, commencing at 10 a. m., President
Zina D. H. Young presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “Come let us
anew.” Prayer by President Ann C.
Woodbury. Singing, “We thank Thee,
O God, for a prophet.” Roll called, eigh-
teen presidents present. Minutes of morn-
ing conference of April last read and
accepted. Minutes of officers’ meeting in
April last read and accepted.
	President Young stated that the morning
would be occupied in hearing from the
presidents of the various Stakes, and made
some explanatory remarks in regard to
Stake conferences being held quarterly, or
semi-annually.
	President Susanna P. Booth, of Box
Elder Stake, and Lucy S. Cardon, of Cache
Stake, were in favor of conference twice a
year.
	President Zina Y. Card, of the Y. L.
M. I. A. of Alberta Stake, stated that in
that Stake they only held conference twice
a year, and that there were so many organ-
izations, that was considered best for them.
	President Emma J. Bennett, Bingham, said
they only held two conferences in a year.
	President Mary A. Hyde, Sanpete, said
they had always held quarterly conferences,
but alternated from one part of the county
to another, which made a difference, and
did not seem to be too much. She was
willing to conform to the decision.
	President M. Isabella Horne, Salt Lake
Stake, thought it advisable under some
circumstances, but Salt Lake Stake was so
much larger than any other, and if there
were but two conferences it would certainly
be necessary for each branch to have an
annual meeting, which would enable them
to make a showing of their work.
	President Cornelia Mortensen, of San
Luis Stake, said it had never been conven-
ient to hold conferences but twice a year,
but the sisters were alive to their duties.
This was the first time she had enjoyed the
privilege of attending the General Confer-
ence, and was very grateful for the oppor-
tunity to do so.
	Dr. M. C. Roberts spoke of having anoth-
er class in nursing, students to come from
other Stakes, and gave some advice in re-
gard to what was needful, and said that we
should as a people employ when sick
those of our own faith, and made other re-
marks pertinent to the subject.
	President M. Isabella Horne addressed
the sisters, urging them to awake to their
duties and responsibilities and to attend
these conferences and get spiritual strength.
If the president was not able to attend send
a representative, some one authorized to
speak for the Stake, and to take home the
teaching given for the building up of the
society.
	President Bathsheba W. Smith was glad
to hear about the nursing class, we want
several nurses in each branch society.
Spoke earnestly about paying tithing and
upon punctuality, it was an important thing
in life; also urged the sisters to be diligent
in the work for the dead, said Joseph the
Prophet was anxious upon this subject.
Spoke of our keeping our second estate, as


