[Column 2]
and six daughters, four of whom preceded her to
Utah, and her youngest, Fredrick O. Webb, fol-
lowed later.
	On her arrival here she settled in the 20th
ward, which was divided soon after and she was
in the 21st ward, with Captain Andrew Burt
as Bishop, and H. J. Foulger and W. L. N. Allen as
Counselors. The new ward was organized as
usual with a Relief Society, in which she became
an active and zealous member. A Sabbath School
with a primary department, to which she was called.
Only those familiar with teaching can fully realize
the peculiar tact and skill required in the success-
ful management of such a department; for it is in
the primary or infant school that the foundation is
laid for the future moral and intellectual structure.
For such work Sister Webb was by nature amply
qualified, hence she made a success of this, too.
A general organization for social and intellectual
purposes was formed, composed of both sexes and
all ages, called the “Twenty First Ward Mutual
Improvement Association.” She was one of the
first to volunteer for membership. Here, as every-
where else, she rendered valuable service, prompt-
ly responding to every call made upon her by the
committee on programs, on which committee she
was in turn called to serve. 
	Her co-workers, and those who knew her best,
saw in all she did and all she said, the individual
stamp of her native modesty and dignity. She
was remarkably patient and enduring, firm as the
hills, her word could be counted on, for it was in
very deed her bond. She was proud and sensitive,
and self-dependent as far as possible, and at this
time supported herself by teaching a private
school Thus fully employed she steadily pursued
the even tenor of her way, blessing and being
blessed, until the infirmities of nature forced her
into retirement, where her chief pleasure was to
converse on the redemption of the race, and the
principles of the Gospel as revealed to the Prophet
Joseph, when her friends called upon her to chat
with, or read to her, the beaming countenance and
sparkling eye was ample reward for their trouble.
	During her busy days she had not neglected her
Temple duties. All that circumstances would per-
mit had been done. Therefore, there was nothing
left for her to do but meekly fold her hands and
say, “Now, O Lord, let Thine handmaid depart
in peace,” and it was verily so. At the close of
day, when men seek their couches for natural rest,
she sought hers, slightly ailing, it is true, but
nothing to alarm, no racking pain, no agonizing
struggle, only somewhat labored breathing. In a
natural voice she asked for water which was given
her and which she drank. Then turning slightly
over, she breathed her last.
	Two only of her children were with her, the rest
were summoned. Their shock can be imagined,
but not described. Was it possible? Surely this
could not be death! Piteously they called upon
her to speak to them once more, only once. But
all was silence. She had said her say, she had
finished her work, her record was sealed and her
example before them.
	Another earthly race is run,
	Another glorious victory won,
	Another grave on the hillside made,
	Another Saint to rest is laid,
	Another empty chair have we,
	A place with the great redeemed has she,
	Sleep, darling mother, sweetly sleep!
	For thou no more shalt wake to weep.
								I. F. S.


