in arranging the pass ways of a city, but
there are no blocks. It is all miles, quarter
or half miles. There are no fences any-
where, and when one wants fruit or grapes
to eat, he just walks into the other fellow’s
orchard and helps himself, and at the same
time, he is welcome to all the roses he cares
for. With my love for roses, you can
imagine I have not neglected many oppor-
tunities of that kind, and it having been
the dream of my life to spend a winter in
Southern California, you can imagine what
it is for me to read of the cold weather else-
where, then turn, first to the quantities of
roses that my friends provide me with, and
then look out and see the orange trees laden
with green fruits, and, at the same time,
see the spring making its appearance in the
lilac buds, and the rose-bushes and other
shrubs putting out their fresh, tender twigs
for the new bloom.
	The roads are all lined on either side
with beautiful trees, palms, roses and olean-
ders, so you can imagine what an after-
noon’s drive is, The homes are all com-
fortable and many of them elegant. At first
it seemed strange to see no grass anywhere
except a patch in front of each house. The
saying that “orange raising and culture
goes together” is a true one, for I find that
while the people all live on ranches, they
forget not the higher duties to their children,
that is, to cultivate the mind as well as the
land. There are, of course, no sidewalks,
but each child has a ‘wheel,” and while
he may live several miles from the school,
he does not look upon that as a reason for
being absent.
	One day my friends drove me out to visit
one of the largest canning factories in the
state, where some five hundred or more
men and women find steady employment in
the fruit season. It costs between five and
six thousand dollars per day to keep up the
running expenses of the factory. I have
forgotten how many tomato cans they filled
the day we were there, but they soldered
three thousand every ten minutes, labeled
ten thousand in six minutes and loaded a
railroad car in less than twenty minutes.
Quick work, eh?
	Another day we visited a winery where
the owner raises miles of grapes, and when
they are hauled in, in big wagons, the juice
streams out of every crack in the wagon
bed as the men shovel them into the press
with shovels something like your snow
shovels, only larger. I saw dozens of wine
vats that held from six hundred to one
thousand gallons.
	I am visiting where there are five lovely
boys that range in age from fourteen to
twenty-six, and they have all done much
to make my visit an enjoyable one, and
they have not failed in the attempt. One
day last week they arranged a rabbit hunt
for my pleasure. At first they were not
satisfied with their success, and when I
caught them out of my sight I slipped an
old shoe in the box where they put their
game, at the bottom of the carriage. I
drove the horses and sometimes the boys
shot the rabbits from the carriage. We
drove through the orange groves, where

[Column 3]
the boys killed several “cotton tails,” then
we drove out on the remnant of the desert,
that lay between us and the mountains that
are only six miles to the east of us. I flat-
ter myself that the old shoe had something
to do with the final success of the hunters,
as they killed seven “cotton tails” and six
“jacks” and got back home in two hours
and a half; but, man-like, they said they
would have had twice that many.
	I suppose you will be surprised when I
tell you I have learned to ride a wheel
since I came here, and I am not going to
leave until I have climbed up to the top of
the wheel track and rode down. The
avenue is twice as wide as the Salt Lake
streets. On either side of the avenue is a
line of orange and lemon trees, and the
centre is parted with a double row of the
most beautiful shade trees you could im-
agine, and between each tree there is a
large palm tree, and in the centre is the
white track. The avenue is six miles long
and the good riders coast their wheels from
the top to the bottom without a stop or a
turn. 
	In the three weeks that I have been here
have had more pleasure and seen more of
the country than the ordinary traveler
would see in that many months, because I
have not confined myself to the cities and
railroad towns. This is not the season of
the orange blossom or the rose, still I have
always quantities of both in my room, and
will send you an orange blossom to remind
you of me. Love to old friends.
		(MRS.) L. S. DICKINSON.
	Ontario, Cal., October 17, 1899.


