[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.
	THE Convention of the State Federation
of Clubs, held October 26, 27 and 28, in
the Congregational Church, in this city,
was both interesting and successful. The
papers and addresses were of a high char-
acter intellectually and bespoke the great
interest awakened among women on sub-
jects of vital importance. Mrs. A. V. Tay-
lor’s address of welcome, Mrs Ewing’s paper
upon Fiction, Mrs Lund’s paper and Dr.
Elliot’s, were all excellent, and we shall be
very glad to make further mention of these
meetings hereafter.
	MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN CATT and Miss
Mary G. Hay, of New York City, are tour-
ing in the West in the interest of Equal
Suffrage. Both are fine looking, and are
women of marked ability. Mrs. Catt is
one of the finest speakers on the platform,
that there is in the suffrage work. They
came here from Montana and went direct
from Salt Lake to San Francisco. At a
meeting of ladies in this office on Monday,
October 30, at 3 p. m., a Central Committee
was organized to do special work in this
State in the interest of suffrage for other
parts of the country. Mrs. F. S. Richards
is chairman; Mrs J. Fewson Smith secre-
tary; Mrs. Ella W. Hyde, treasurer; Mrs.
E. J. McFarlane, chairman canvassing
committee. The ladies represented three
counties. A meeting to complete the or-
ganization and plan will be held at Mrs. P.
P. Jennings’ residence, on Saturday at 3 p.
m., November 4.
	THE ladies of the W. C. T. U. who were in
the city Sunday and Monday, were tendered
a reception by the Central Board of the
Y. L. N. M. I. A., in the parlors of the Bee
Hive, the residence of President Lorenzo
Snow, on Monday afternoon. The rooms
were tastefully decorated with flowers and
plants. Mrs. Snow, the hostess, is an
active member of the Board, Mrs. E. S.
Taylor is president and Miss Ann M. Can-
non secretary. Other members assisted in
receiving and in serving dainty and delicate
refreshments. Miss Bessie Edmonds ren-
dered very sweetly two charming songs,
“Good Bye Sweet Day” and “Slumber’s
Sweet Lullaby. Fine selections on the
piano were artistically executed.


