[Column 1]
most forgot my duties here with mother.”
	As he watched her he became more de-
lighted with her womanliness and sweet-
ness.
	“Deborah,” he said, after a while and
during a pause, “I have come here for a
purpose today.”
	“A purpose,” she repeated.
	The room with its ancient furniture, the
great fireplace, where the logs blazed, was
impressed indelibly upon the minds of the
two there, each expectant of the other, each
knowing that a new era was about to open
out before them—an era of some great joy.
	Ben could see his love where she stood by
the fireplace, looking down into the danc-
ing flames, as higher they leaped in a mad
race as if each one wished to go higher than
the other, then were put backwards as
others pushed themselves into their places.
	“Life is like that,” Deborah said thought-
fully, “like the flames. We try to push
ourselves into other’s places. Don’t we,
Ben?”
	“Perhaps. But no one could push them-
selves into your place, Deborah,” he said
earnestly.
	“And why not, Ben?”
	“Because, dear, I love you, and want
only you—you for my wife, dear.”
	“Is it true? you love me after all?” she
asked hesitatingly.
	“Quite true, Deborah. I have loved
you for a long time.”
	“And you really want me, Ben?”
	“Yes, dear.”
	They stood a moment in silence. The
ruddy fanciful light fell over them. He
seemed to her an invincible presence, an
ideal she had dreamed of all her life, and
there he stood before her in veritable truth.
	While she was to him the woman he
loved. Very beautiful, a being who seemed
to him far beyond him in goodness.
	“Tell me, Deborah,” he said, in an in-
sistent voice, “what I want to know. Tell
me, dear.”
	“’Tis love, Ben. I love you,” she said
caressingly.
	He went close to her and looked into her
face. He studied the brave eyes and the
careless, almost reckless courage of the
determined mouth. He knew he must be
strong to control such a nature, but he had
no fear.
	“She underwent the scrutiny calmly.
	“Well,” she said, will you have me for
better or worse? and it’s most like worse.”
	“I wasn’t thinking of that, Deborah,”
he said. “I was thinking of myself and
wondering if I am worthy of' you and
thinking of my happiness in the knowledge
that you love me. Yes, sweetheart, I take
you for better or worse.”
	He drew her to him close within his
arms, kissing her.
	“My love, my love,” he said in low
tones, and Deborah found her happiness at
last in the strong nature revealed to her in
Ben Gannett and his undying love for her.
	In the following April, on the seventh of
that month, 1774, they were married.
	The year that followed she was asked by
Washington to again visit the seat of
government as a guest. So with her hus-
band she returned thither. She was feted
and made much of, attending receptions
given by the officers. She was given a
pension for life.
	At one of the most notable receptions a
request was furthered to her that the people
wished to see her in her regimentals and

