[Column 2]
in the highest degree, but little do they
have. 
	September 15th. One year ago this day
we left the coast of California; that was the
Sabbath, this is Monday. Little did I then
think what was before me! My extreme
sickness on the water and the trials attend-
ing that voyage, were hidden from me.
Had I known beforehand what I should
suffer, I could not have undertaken it. I
have endeavored to sow good seed. My 
daughters have set an example of industry
and sobriety. Our reward will certainly
come to us in the great future.
	Mr. Grouard invited us to his house to
dine. His native wife, after helping to
cook the food, would not eat at the table.
I marvel greatly when I see white men,
sensible, intelligent men, conforming to the
habits of the island women; eating their
food from the ground, without knife or
fork; isolating themselves from the world;
raising a posterity they can never be proud
of. There must be some cause not appar-
ent to those who are sent here to preach the
Gospel. For them to go back to their
native country and mingle in society,
would be like being ushered into a new
world.
	When the white men are absent the head
chief leads. “Hoatau” has a powerful
voice, and great energy and force in his
manner, besides great zeal for this cause.
He is a natural orator. Mr. Grouard is ex-
tremely anxious to be sent to California to
get a vessel in which to convey the island
brethren to the body of the Church. Mr.
Pratt is not in favor of the enterprise, fear-
ing it might detain us here too long. How
painful to be kept in suspense!
	The 22nd day. The equinoctial storm
occurred, which continued for a week. We
are expecting to hear of terrible disasters at
sea. Glad our hearts are to see the smiling
face of the old king of day once more. In
this far-off world a dark, dismal day seems
intolerable. Sunshine and flowers are our
congenial companions.
	On the 26th, before the dawn of day, Mr.
Pratt went forth with dog and gun to shoot
wild fowl. He was induced to take Fran-
ces, our second daughter, with him, with a
view to dispel the gloom which seemed
hanging over her. They went two miles to
the mountains, up the cliff, and returned
with plenty of game. The excursion had
the desired effect. This seclusion from the
world at intervals is very trying on the
children. At such times they resort to
rambles on the mountains with the native
children, gather wild flowers, decorate
themselves and return in fine spirits.
	I have witnessed another setting sun,
beautiful when going down behind the
great deep. All is silent, not a sound do I
hear from the noisy world. I know not
but it is all buried up, and Babylon fallen
to rise no more forever. I trust, however,
that Salt Lake City still remains. How
long must we endure this imprisonment! 
I have one little hope remaining. Captain 
Johnson is expected in, and he will bring
us news from the dear old world. So I
will try to live a few days longer. 
	My employment daily is to keep the
children at their books. I made a feast for
those under my immediate charge. Four-
teen were seated around the table at once. 
They conducted themselves extremely well,
ate with knives and forks and tried to
imitate their superiors.
		[To be continued.]


