[Column 2]
San Francisco to Manila. We have planted
our footsteps in the sea. How we have
progressed! First it was San Francisco,
then Hawaii, then Gauon, then Manila and
one step more and we will be the open door
to China.”
	BESIDES spending Thanksgiving with
the dear ones in Idaho, an afternoon Tea
and luncheon were given in honor of the
“Little Mother.” Wednesday, November
29, at two p. m., the elite of Wallace
assembled at the home of Mrs. Daisie D.
Allen, of Wallace, and although the rain
was simply pouring down, all were punctu-
al in coming. Knowing of the International
Council having been received by the Queen
in the quadrangle of Windsor Castle, and
entertained by Her Majesty at an elaborate
tea (almost a banquet) in St. George’s hall,
we yielded to the earnest request of the
ladies and related the incident and described
what we saw and remembered of this inter-
esting place, and personality of the Queen
of Great Britain and Empress of India.
The afternoon was a pleasant one. Mrs.
Allen as hostess did the honors gracefully,
and each guest had a card with the auto-
graph of the “Little Mother” and a quota-
tion from her book of poems, “Musings and
Memories.” “Tea,” which consisted of a
variety of delicate dishes handsomely
served, with fine china and the finest em-
broidered linen, in dainty patterns, the
tables decorated with evergreen; but the
brilliant conversation of intelligent women
surpasses luxuriant feasting, and to close
the sweet day, music and songs were added
to our enjoyment. Some of the sweetest
old songs were rendered by Mrs. Allen and
Mrs. Burke; a day long to be remembered.
	THE luncheon was given by Mrs. Mell
C. Woods, at her residence in Wallace, on
Saturday, December 2, at half past one p.
m. The rooms were artistically decorated
with carnations and chrysanthemums of
many colors, pink and white mostly, and
the beautiful evergreen coptis leaves that
grow in the mountains. The menu cards
were tied with ribbon and carna-
tions, and were unique in having every
dish in the course designated with a quota-
tion from Shakespeare, and left to the ladies
to guess, which afforded some amusement
and helped digestion, no doubt. The table
was daintily spread with elegant service,
and everything arranged in “apple pie
order”—fit for a queen; and the ladies
themselves were handsomely gowned in
rich apparel. After the fun of guessing
was over, the ladies discussed their favorite
poets, the book of fiction which had im-
pressed them most, and the greatest living
woman in America. To be sure, there
were differences of opinion on all these
questions, but they led to much thinking
and bringing out ideas, and proved that
women when gathered in parties nowadays
do not always gossip or talk of dress and
fashion. The guests were entertained in
the parlor afterwards with music and sing-
ing, Mrs. Allen, who has a particularly
fine voice, singing some favorite ballads,
and Mrs. Finch, tho’ very timid, sang
one song sweetly, after a great deal of en-
treaty. The Wallace ladies whom we
had the pleasure of meeting were very
gracious to the woman editor, but however
we try we cannot describe their dresses,
that is quite impossible; and, therefore, we
trust they will not consider the omission
ungracious, and accept this passing notice


