LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting con-
vened in the 14th ward hall, September 30,
1899, at 2 p. m., President M. I. Horne
presiding.
	Meeting opened with singing, “Lord we
come before Thee now.” Prayer by Sister
M. W. Wilcox. Singing, “O say what is
truth.” Minutes of previous meeting read
and approved.
	President Horne said when we come to
the house of the Lord, we should leave our
cares at home and centre our minds upon
God; that without the spirit of God we can-
not live acceptably. Alluded to the simpli-
city of the Gospel. Said the spirit of God
helps us under all trying circumstances if
we put our trust in Him. Referred to the
trials of the Saints in the early days, and
how God has blessed them. Spoke also of
the blessings we have in making the earth
so productive, and the privilege women
have in gaining useful knowledge, and also
the many duties devolving upon us in
various ways.
	Sister Brown felt if we cultivate the spir-
it of God our minds will be enlightened and
our understanding quickened. Referred to
the importance of Temple work.
	Sister Rachel Grant spoke of her visit to
Cache Valley, and the good spirit enjoyed
at the conference there. President Snow
shook hands with three hundred children;
she never saw healthier or finer children.
She thought it a great privilege to pay
tithing. We should keep the command-
ments of God and observe the laws of
nature. We could live to be healthier and
happier by observing these laws. Thought
the time was drawing near when we could
go back to Jackson Co. Desired to live
that she might be among those who return
to do that work. She looked upon trials
as blessings in disguise, and rejoiced that
she was associated with the best people on
the earth.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith thought we
should be more interested and do more
Temple work; should be economical and
not run into debt: pay our tithing and help
pay the Church debt, and redeem our dead.
The Prophet Joseph promised if we would
do our duty and keep the commandments
of God, we should reclaim our children,
none will be lost.
	The congregation sang “The spirit of
God.”


Sister Jane James and Sister Rawlings
each bore testimony.
	Sister Mary E. Bassett had seen the
Egyptian mummies at the Prophet Joseph’s,
and some of the records that were with
them; she bore her testimony.
	Sister Martha Morris sang a hymn. 
	Counselor Elizabeth Stevenson said she
had visited Tooele Stake Relief Society,
and enjoyed meeting with the sisters there.
Spoke of the trials of mothers in these days
in raising children with so many allure-
ments around us.
	The congregation sang “Our God we
raise to Thee.”
	Sister Johnson was introduced by Presi-
dent Horne, and said this was one of the
happiest days of her life, to be in Zion. She
had been baptized twenty-two years ago,
but had lived in the world, and had been in
dangerous places many times but she had
the promise of life, and did not fear. Spoke
of the blessings our sisters had enjoyed in
seeing angels; such a thing was not known
in the world. She had always borne a
testimony of the Gospel where the privilege
of doing so was afforded. Spoke of break-
ing the laws of nature; if we do, we must
endure the penalty. We must get our
bodies under control by relaxing  every
joint and muscle of the body. Said she
wished to form a class to study the laws of
health. By observing the laws and exer-
cising faith, we as a people can enjoy health.
Spoke of the necessity of an exercise of
faith. She wished to live with this people
and give her time to the work.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks with
singing and benediction by Sister Julia C.
Howe.
