[Column 2]
and we have, as General Grant once said, “a
big job on our hands.” We have to edu-
cate a quarter of a million of men every
year into the principles of our American
Institutions. And I want to say to you,
my good friends, that in every one of the
fifteen States in the Union in which the
question has been voted upon, if only the
native born men had had the franchise, the
women in every one of them would have
had the ballot today. I am not sorry that
those men who do not understand our
Institutions have the right to vote, for they
never would understand them if they had
not that right. So we must wait with
patience the slow process of education.
And we have been very patient: in our
half century of agitation and education we
have gained Woman Suffrage in four
States! And besides that, women have
municipal suffrage in one State, a vote on
matters of taxation in several others, and
school suffrage, to a greater or less extent,
in twenty-three States. In over one half of
the States of our Union women are voting
today. In Louisiana, one of the old slave
States, on the sixth day of this month,
women taxpayers in the city of New Orleans
for the first time in history cast their ballots
on the question of taxing the people of that
city for the purpose of building sewers and
improving sanitary conditions. The men
were so considerate of the women that they
made that constitutional proviso, that they
arranged for them to vote by proxy if they
were too modest to go to the ballot box.
When some of the women attempted to get
a proxy they learned that by the law of
Louisiana, a married woman’s name on a
certificate would not stand, therefore they
were compelled to go to the ballot box.
	The distance we have gone in the last
fifty years is beyond computation. Before
I sit down I will tell one little incident
illustrating the condition of things when we
started. I had been a teacher in the State
of New York for fifteen years—from the
age of fifteen to thirty. A State Teachers’
Convention was held in my city of Roches-
ter. Over a thousand women had gathered
in that convention and perhaps two hun-
dred men. Up to that time no woman’s
voice had ever been heard in one of these
conventions; only men had reported the re-
sult of their experience, because it was con-
sidered improper for women to speak in
public. Those men appointed a committee
to prepare resolutions, and one of these de-
clared that teachers were not respected as
were ministers, lawyers and doctors. In
discussing that resolution one man declared
that the profession of teacher was higher
than that of a doctor, of more use to the
community; another, that it was higher
than that of a lawyer, and a third even
affirmed that it was of more service to the
world to train the young than it was to try
to reform them after they had been brought 
up in a crooked way. “And yet,” said
these men, “ministers, doctors and lawyers
are treated with the greatest respect, invited
into the best families, often elected to high
offices, whereas schoolmasters are treated
slightingly, and are often called Miss Nan-
cies and old grandmothers!” I listened
with a great deal of interest, and at length
—having been born a Quaker, and always
taught that God inspired a woman to speech
just as weil as a man—I rose in my seat and
said, “Mr. President!”
	The president was a Professor of Mathe-
matics at West Point, a pompous man,
wearing a blue coat, brass buttons and buff

[Column 3]
vest. He stepped to the front of the plat-
form, and inserting his thumbs in his arm-
holes, asked, “What will the lady have?”
	The idea never entered that man’s cran-
ium that a woman could rise in her seat and
address the chair just like a man! And I
said, “Mr. President and gentlemen, I
would like to say a word on the question
under discussion.”
	“Then,” said Professor Davis, “what is
the pleasure of the convention?” And he
looked down to this little handful of men on
the front seats, never casting a furtive
glance to the thousand women crowding
that hall. One man moved that the lady
should be heard, and another seconded, and
they discussed the question for half an hour.
	At last, by a very small majority, it was
decided that the lady should be heard, and
I managed to say, “Mr. President and
gentlemen, I have listened to your discus-
sion with a great deal of interest, but it
seems to me that none of you quite compre-
hend the cause of the disrespect of which
you complain. Do you not see that so long
as society says that a woman hasn’t brains
enough to be either a minister, a lawyer or
a doctor, but has ample brains to be a
teacher, that every man of you who teaches
school practically acknowledges that he
hasn’t any more brains than a woman?”
and sat down.
	As I passed out of the hall at the close of
the session I heard many a woman whisper-
ing to another, “Who is that creature?”
“Where did she come from?” “I was
never so ashamed in my life, I wished the
floor had opened and swallowed me up!”
They wer honest, they really believed
it was degrading to a woman to speak.
	The next morning Professor Davis in
calling the convention to order, assumed
his pompous position and said: “I have
been asked why it is women are not put
upon the committees, why they are not
invited to prepare reports and so on.” And
then he continued: “Look at this mag-
nificent hall, at the beauty of the entabla-
ture, the symmetry of the shaft and the
strength of the pedestal. Could I be instru-
mental in dragging from its proud eleva-
tion that beautiful etablature and rolling it
in the dirt and dust that surround the
pedestal? No, heaven forbid!”
	And he was quite sincere, and really be-
lieved that if a woman stood in an audience
and spoke she would be degraded to the
level of a man. Exactly so now. Men are
afraid that if women vote, if they hold
office, if they sit in Congressional and
Parliamental halls, they will degrade them-
selves to the level of men!!


