[Column 2]
still living to mourn a tender and devoted
mother, to whom they were most devotedly
attached. She has left thirty grandchildren,
ten great grandchildren and an aged hus-
band, the companion of her youth, and to
whom she was fondly attached through
more than half a century.
	The funeral services were held on Friday
October 27, at 2 p. m., at the residence of
President Joseph F. Smith, her son-in-law,
and were conducted by Bishop W. J.
Beatie, Bishop of the Seventeeth Ward, in
which she had resided ever since the ward
was organized. 
	The services opened by singing “O, my
Father, Thou that dwellest,’ etc. Prayer
was offered by Bishop Emery, of the Six-
teenth Ward. The choir sang “When first
the glorious light of truth,” etc.
	The first speaker was Elder George B.
Wallace, a near neighbor, and one who had
known her from the settling of these val-
leys. He told of her many virtues and her
strict integrity to the truth under all cir-
cumstances, and gave a brief retrospect of
the early days, the organization of wards,
quorums, and so on, and paid a glowing
tribute to this excellent woman.
	Bishop Elijah S. Sheets followed, and
testified of the faith and integrity of the en-
tire family of Brother Bigler, (the father)
members of which he had been intimately
acquainted with in the days of Nauvoo.
	Apostle John Henry Smith spoke of the at-
tractive and entertaining qualities of Sister
Lambson, whom he had known from his
boyhood up. Alluded also to the family of
Brother and Sister Bigler and their great
faith in the Gospel, and referred to the
aged brother of the deceased, Brother Jacob
Bigler, a Patriarch of the Church, still liv-
ing in Nephi, Utah, yet not able to come
to Salt Lake City to attend the funeral; a
man of strict integrity and unquestioning
faith. He also spoke with affection and in
terms of praise of Sister Bathsheba W.
Smith, the only one of the Bigler sisters
still living. Many excellent tributes, were
paid Sister Lambson in the remarks made
by the several speakers. 
	Bishop Beatie made some closing re-
marks in which he mentioned more recent
matters pertaining to Sister Lambson’s life,
and the acquaintance he made with her
when acting as a teacher in the ward, and
afterwards as her Bishop.
	The closing hymn was, “We shall meet
beyond the river.” The music was furn-
ished by the Sixteenth Ward choir, and
was very choice in selection and well ren-
dered. The benediction was pronounced
by Counselor Frank S. Tingey.
	Sister Lambson looked peaceful and hap-
py in her beautiful robes as she lay in the
white casket, and many were the floral
tributes from loving and sympathetic rela-
tives and friends. Her remains were fol-
lowed to the cemetery by a numerous pro-
cession of those who loved and honored her
memory. The grave was dedicated by
Patriarch Jesse B. Martin, and Sister Lamb-
son’s mortal body was laid peacefully away
to await the morning of the resurrection of
the just.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from
henceforth, yea t[-]ey rest, from t[-]eir labors and
their works do follow t[-]em.”


IF we had no faults ourselves we should
not be so quick to observe those of our
friends.


