[Column 1]
	“It’s a lie!” he exclaimed, drawing her
directly under the light. He pushed back
the matted hair and looked long and pas-
sionately at her as if for months he had
wished for this moment.
	“’Tis Deborah, Deborah my lost love.
My poor girl,” he said tenderly and clasped
her in his arms, kissing her lips, her brow
with a wild passion. She was in a half un-
conscious state and realized very little that
occurred.
	“God help me,” David said, “I have
wounded you—I—”
	“Nothing,” she gasped, “let me die.”
	“No, no,” she heard as in a dream and
then another voice broke upon her senses
A voice she remembered but too well, 
a voice which thrilled her and then bending 
over her she saw Ben Gannett.
	“Ben,” she said, trying to raise herself,
but finding it impossible, and David suc-
ceeded in getting her to her feet by holding
her in his arms.
	Dr. Gannett looked amazed to find an
enemy caring for her.
	“You are wounded, Rob, my poor boy,”
he said.
	“Yes, to the death, Ben,” Deborah mut-
tered, dragging herself forcibly away from
Brenton’s detaining hand, and throwing
her arms suddenly about Ben’s neck.
	“To the death,” she said again, and 
then lay quiet.
	“Not that,” he remonstrated gently,
while he raised her head to look at her.
	She was deathly pale, her eyes closed,
this time she was in a deep swoon.
	“And I have done it. God forgive me,”
David said brokenly.
	Ben was more surprised at this remark,
but bade him lend a hand, and together
they carried her to the camp, and straight
to the Doctor’s tent, where they laid her
down. It was here David Brenton told 
Deborah’s secret to Ben Gannett, whose
astonishment was manifest. The two men,
however, swore allegiance to her, each
promising to keep the secret, until a proper
time came to divulge it, and the Doctor
seemed to see when that would be.
	David, with a miserable remorse tugging
at his heart, was forced to return to his
duties, and to his promise to marry Mina,
whom he had never really loved. He found
his role a difficult one, but he played it
honorably, only going regularly to inquire
for the young soldier. The Doctor cau-
tioned him not to come after she began to
recover, fearing she might suspect he had
told her secret. So David stayed away .and
Deborah did not see him again for many
years, and when they did meet he was
married to Mina.
	It is needless to say that during Deborah’s
illness, which followed on her wounds, Dr.
Gannett never left her, and allowed no one
else to nurse her. He found a deeper senti-
ment than duty kept him by her side—he
loved her, but how to tell her. He read
her proud yet sensitive nature like an open
book, and hardly dared to think how this
great love for her might end.
	One day in the early autumn, Deborah,
weak and emancipated, walked outside the
tent with Ben’s assistance. It was difficult
to guard every word and look as he felt her
soft hand in his. He wanted to throw dis-
cretion to the winds, and tell his love to
her and hold her in a close embrace, but
looking now upon her lovely face, pure and
innocent as a child’s, he controlled himself,
and she never imagined that her truest
friend knew her as she was. Many had

