A VISIT TO STRATFORD-ON-AVON.
	A perfect day in July, and a landscape as
beautiful as it is possible for scenery to be,
Tuesday, July 19, 1899, when we took a
morning train in Nottingham for Stratford-
on-Avon. One’s anticipations have some-
thing to do with one’s enjoyment generally,
and the thought of visiting the immortal
Shakespeare’s birthplace, and the scenes of
his activity, where he lived and loved and
wrote and became famous, to an ardent
admirer of his genius was sufficient to
make everything appear glorious, if even
the day had been dull and the journey
tiresome. But such was not the case; the
part of country through which we traveled
was charming. There were many fine
towns and villages, and the great city of
Birmingham, of which we could, from the
railway, only see the signs of its busy
manufacturing appearance, though we
afterwards had a fine visit there. We
passed, on the way, many handsome villas
and gentlemen’s country seats, some of
them well-known to our pleasant traveling
companion, who was familiar with many
parts of England, where his early life had
been spent. We reached Stratford-on-Avon
about 2 p. m., and went direct to the Fal-
con, a very old-fashioned inn, where we
had been informed there were many curi-
ous and ancient articles, typical of the
Shakespeare period.
	We found we were too late for the lunch
hour, but were directed to a Shake-
speare restaurant a short distance up the
street, quite as quaint as the inn itself.
	We made some inquires at the Falcon
from the hostess, who had already assigned
us rooms previous to our going out, and
had informed us that the room given the
writer had been Marie Correlli’s room when
she was a guest at the Falcon, and where
she had written “The Sorrows of Satan.”
The furniture was very old style—high 
post bedstead with heavy silk curtains and
bell with long silken cord, which was one
of a chime of nine bells, each having a
name attached over each respective bell in
the hall below, which was also the name of
the room; this one was called Silence.
We sallied forth to see the town and learn
all we could of its curious history. The
streets were narrow, and gave one the feel-
ing of antiquity; the houses were old and
many of them entirely different in style to
those we had seen in other parts of Eng-
land. Now and then, a house that looked
fresh and new was seen, but the tendency
seemed to be towards keeping up the

