[Column 2]
been the inquiries for Rob during his ill-
ness, and the soldiers crowded around him
as he came out in the faded blue regimentals.
Their brave faces were anxious and yet in
the eyes of many were tears at the sight of
the wan face and eager eyes. The Doctor,
seeing them so moved, put on a jovial man-
ner and turned the conversation to lighter
topics, and the morning passed pleasantly.
Thus day by day Deborah grew stronger,
and soon expressed a wish to take up her
duties as before, but she found opposition
in the Doctor.
	“It’s no use, Ben,” as he had insisted
upon being called, “I must join the ranks
once more, I must have action. See, I am
quite strong now.” A bright flush mounted
her cheeks while she spoke. She looked to
him very womanly as she stood before him.
The glance he bent upon her made her un-
easy.
	“I cannot and will not allow you to go,
Rob,” the Doctor said finally. “But if you
wont listen to me, I have secured a com-
mission, or rather a letter, from the Colonel
to General Washington, which you have
been ordered to carry to him. It is of im-
portance.”
	He did not meet her eyes and a hundred
misgivings came to him.
	“Will you take it?” he asked, holding it.
towards her. 
	“Yes, of course, at once, today. ” she
answered quickly.
	“But why this haste? Within a month
the Colonel’s orders were.”
	“Very well. Give it to me.”
	He did so.
	“Strange how contrary you are, Rob.”
	“It is not that, Ben. But I must be on
the go, some action, serving my country.”
	“Yes, but you cannot now.”
	“We shall see.”
	He suddenly drew her inside his tent and
placing both hands on her shoulders forced
her to look into his eyes. Her’s were filled
with defiance yet he perceived a wavering,
a fear in their clear depths.
	“Rob,” he said, “don’t be reckless again.
You have very nearly lost your life. Try
to think of me, for—for—you are very dear
to me.”
	“Thank God, sir, for that,” Deborah
said fervently.
	How he rejoiced to hear the eager tone.
How well he knew every outline of her
face. Had he not watched over her for
eight long weeks until her loveliness was
imprinted on his memory, never to be
effaced.
		(To be continued.)


