MISS ANTHONY ON ROBERTS.
	Miss Anthony has been more or less
criticised for her remarks in opposition to
the resolution calling upon Congress to re-
fuse a seat to Brigham H. Roberts, which
was introduced at the recent Convention of
the New York State Federation of Wom-
en’s Clubs. She has been interviewed for
the daily press, and asked to define her
position more fully. She is reported as
saying:
	“When I opposed the motion presented
at the Federation in regard to Roberts, I
did so on the ground that the motion, as
worded, petitioned Congress to refuse to
admit Roberts as a member of the House of
Representatives, which, as I explained at
the time, it was useless to do. I was argu-
ing on the motion before the House. It
referred not to the removal of Robert’s after
he was seated, which is the only way Con-
gress can approach the matter, but to his
admission. I did not wish the Federation
to make itself ridiculous by solemnly taking
this action in regard to Roberts, and there-
by invoking scathing remarks from the
press of the country in reference to the in
ability of women to comprehend the sim-
plest matter of constitutional law.
	“After discussing this point, the question
of Roberts’s unfitness came up, and I said
what I believe in regard to the standard of
morality among men as a class. If it is so
uncommon for men to violate the sanctity
of the home, as some of these good women
would have us believe, why does a double
standard of morality exist for men and
women? I also hold that Roberts, whose
religion upholds him in his polygamous
life, is less a sinner than those men who
live in violation of the teachings of the
society in which they move.”
	“It has been suggested,” said the re-
porter, “that your opposition to the
Roberts resolution lies in the fact that the
women of Utah are enfranchised.”
	Miss Anthony laughed quietly and re-
plied:
	“As a matter of fact, Roberts is, person-
ally, strongly and bitterly opposed to wom-
an suffrage, and many women in Utah
voted against him for that reason.
	“I sincerely believe that one reason why
the Roberts resolutions as adopted by
the women’s clubs throughout the country,
have referred to the admission of Roberts
instead of his removal, is a faint realization
of the difficulty that would be encountered
in prefering charges of immorality against
him that would be worse than those that
could be brought to light in connection
with the very men upon whom would de-
volve the duty of denouncing Roberts.
People who live in glass houses should not
throw stones.”


