MOTHERHOOD.

Motherhood: First mere laying of an egg
With blind foreseeing of the wisest place, 
And blind provision of the proper food
For unseen larva to grow fat upon
After the instinct-guided mother died—
Posthumous motherhood, no love, no joy. 

Motherhood: Brooding patient o’er the nest, 
With gentle stirring of an unknown love;
Defending eggs unhatched, feeding the young
For days of callow feebleness, and then
Driving the fledgling from the nest to fly.

Motherhood: When the kitten and the cub
Cried out alive, and first the mother knew,
The fumbling of furry little paws,  
The pressure of the hungry little mouth
Against the more than ready mother-breast—
The love that comes of giving and of care.

Motherhood: Nursing with her heart-warm milk,
Fighting to death all danger to her young,
Hunting for food for little ones half-weaned
Teaching them how to hunt and fight in turn—
Then loving not till the new litter came.

Motherhood: When the little savage grew
Tall at his mother’s side, and learned to feel
Some mother even in his father’s heart.
Love coming to new babies while the first 
Still needed mother’s care, and therefore love—
Love lasting longer because childhood did.

Motherhood: Semi-civilized, intense,
Fierce with brute passion, narrow with the range
Of slavish lives to meanest service bowed;
Devoted—to the sacrifice of life;
Jealous beyond belief, and ignorant
Even of what should keep the child alive.
Love spreading with the spread of human needs,
The child’s new, changing, ever-growing wants, 
Yet seeking like brute mothers of the past
To give all things to her own child herself.  
Loving to the exclusion of all else;
To the child’s service bending a whole life;
Yet stunting the young creature day by day 
With lack of Justice, Liberty and Peace.

Motherhood: Civilized. There stands at last
Facing the heavens with as calm a smile,
The highest fruit of the long work of God;
The highest type of this the highest race;
She from whose groping instinct grew all love—
All love—in which is all the life of man. 

Motherhood: Seeing with her clear, kind eyes,
Luminous, tender eyes, wherein the smile
Is like the smile of sunlight on the sea,
That the new children of the newer day
Need more than any single heart can give,
More than is known to any single mind,
More than is found in any single house,
And need it from the day they see the light.
Then measuring her love by what they need,
Gives from the heart of modern motherhood,
Gives first, as tree to bear God’s highest fruit,
A clean, strong body, perfect and full grown, 
Fair for the purpose of its womanhood,
Not for light fancy of a lower mind;
Gives a clear mind, athletic, beautiful,
Dispassionate, unswerving from the truth;
Gives a great heart that throbs with human love,
As she would wish her son to love the world.

Then when the child comes, lovely as a star,
She in the peace of primal motherhood,
Nurses her baby with unceasing joy,
With milk of human kindness, human health,
Bright human beauty and immortal love.
And then? Ah! here is the New Motherhood— 
The motherhood of the fair new-made world—
O glorious New Mother of New Men!
Her child, with other children from its birth,
In the unstinted freedom of warm air, 
Under the wisest eyes, the tenderest thought,
Surrounded by all beauty and all peace,
Led, playing, through the gardens of the world, 
With the crowned heads of science and great love
Mapping safe paths for those small rosy feet—
Taught human love by feeling human love,
Taught justice by the laws that rule his days,
Taught wisdom by the way in which he lives,
Taught to love all mankind and serve them fair
By seeing from his birth, all children served
With the same righteous, all-embracing care. 
 
O Mother! Noble Mother, yet to come!
How shall thy child point to the bright career
Of her of whom he boasts to be the son—
Not by assiduous service spent on him, 
But for the wisdom which has set him forth
A clear-brained, pure-souled, noble-hearted man,
With health and strength and beauty for his own, 

