[Column 1]
poor and needy had been looked after, and
union prevailed. An effort had been made
to obey counsel in planting mulberry trees
in view of silk culture in the future. It
had been successful, and she hoped the
society would double its efforts another sea-
son. Felt the blessing of the Lord had
been upon our labors, and she felt very ap-
preciative for His many mercies.
	Counselor Mary E. Hanks said we need
the aid of the priesthood at all times. Our
leading brethren and sisters are trying to
prepare us for the events that are coming.
The time has come when we have to live
up to the principles of the Gospel. Now is
the time to shake off our indifference.
Spoke on the word of wisdom, also on pay-
ing tithes and offerings, and of the mission
of motherhood and the good lives we as
sisters should lead.
	Counselor Sarah J. Forsythe said we
should teach our children the principles of
the Gospel and encourage them to attend
their meetings. We should keep all the
commandments more strictly.
	President Louisa J. Taylor reported the
Fremont branch. They are a united band
of sisters.
	President Margaret J. Taylor reported
Loa branch, they are energetic. With the
aid of the Young Ladies, the society there
had purchased a lot in a better location
than the present one. Both the associations
intend to unite in building a suitable hall
to meet in.
	President W. E. Robinson was pleased
to have the privilege of attending Relief
Society conference in such a comfortable
building, and pleased to see so many out.
“The remarks have been directed to the
mothers, who have the forming of the
minds of future generations. We are made
strong by sustaining one another, he loved
to see and sustain Relief Society work.
We all have responsibility placed upon us.
Every sister should be an active member.
Prayed the Lord to bless all connected with
the good work.
	Singing. Benediction by Bishop N. W.
Mansfield.
	Afternoon session. Singing, “Come, O
Thou King of kings.” Prayer by Elder
Edgar Jeffrey. Singing, “The happy day
is rolling on.”
	President Sarah G. Meeks reported the
Thurber branch as prospering.
	Sister Juliette Blackburn spoke on some
of the instructions given at the last confer-
ence, and bore testimony to the efficacy of
prayer.
	Patriarch Blackburn said there could be
no heaven without the sisters. He was
here to bless the sick, felt to bow before the
Lord continually and thank Him for His
power made manifest. Said there is not
enough devotion and spirituality cultivated.
Our young sisters should guard their virtue
as they would their lives. Angels are
watching us. The sisters hold in their
hands the destiny of the home.
	Secretary Anna Coleman presented the
General Board and Stake officers, and they
were sustained by unanimous vote. Tor-
rey and Grover branches were reported by
their respective presidents as doing well.
	President Elizabeth Rust reported Caine-
ville. She said in summer time, instead of
making quilts and sewing at working
meetings, they all met on that day and
turned out with their hoes and cultivated
their lot, which is planted with mulberry
trees, beans and corn. It gave the sisters

