[Column 2]
gently. “You are to be commended for 
your bravery.”
	The man in the window turned instantly 
as the General spoke, but Deborah did not 
heed him. She fell on one knee saying,
“Your blessing, General.”
	He gave it and conferred upon her the 
honorary badge of distinction established 
by him. He proceeded to put into her 
hand a discharge from the army, a note of 
praise as well and a few words of advice 
and farewell.
	She rose to withdraw, but some one stood 
beside her. She recognized Ben Gannett.
	Robert,” he exclaimed.
	“You here,” she said in confusion.
	They made their adieus to Washington 
and his staff and departed.
	As they found themselves in the street 
Deborah asked, “How did you come here?”
	“To wait for you, Rob. I wanted to be 
here when you came to help you,” he
answered, with an unmistakable meaning 
in his glance.
	She blushed uncomfortably. He knew 
her secret! She hastily tore open Wash-
ington’s letter containing her dismissal 
from the army and the note of praise for a
woman’s bravery and a bit of advice to a
madcap’s wildness. She laughed nervous-
ly as she said to Ben, “And you, sir, have 
you known my secret, too?”
	“Yes,” he said, laughing with her.
“And now let’s hurry and get to camp.”
	“I’m going home,” she said thought-
fully, “and you will come and see me later
on.”
	“If you want me,” he replied.
	“Of course I want you,” she said.
“How thankful I am,” she continued, “to
that great and good man who so kindly 
spared my feelings. He saw me ready to 
sink with shame. One word from him at 
that moment would have crushed me to the 
earth, but he spoke no word and I bless 
him for it.”
	“You are right, Deborah,” he said, call-
ing her for the first time by her own name 
and she gave him a glance of pleasure.
“General Washington is a noble man.”
	A few months later Ben Gannett rang 
the bell of a humble house in Plympton.
Deborah opened the door for him. She 
was in a pale lavender muslin, her dark 
curls grown a trifle longer, encircling her 
lovely face. The glow of health once 
more showed on her cheeks, her eyes 
beamed with pleasure at beholding him.
	“Ben,” she said, after the greeting, “I
am so glad to see you.”
	She led him into the living room. On a 
hook in a corner hung an army cap and 
sword, and close by her rifle. “See,” she
went on, “the remains of my service to my
country.”
	The enthusiasm, the inspiration lighting 
her dark eyes told him that she had not 
overcome that absorbing passion for her 
country. He did not seek to stifle it, in-
stead he remarked:
	“Yes. Deborah, I see, and who knows, 
you may have occasion to use them again?”
	“No, I think not,” she said. “I have
been away from home so long that I al-


