[Column 1]
DEBORAH SAMPSON—A WOMAN OF THE 
REVOLUTION.
BY ALICE BURKE.
(Conclusion.)
	Deborah knew her only safety lay in part-
ing from him. She feared she might be-
tray herself if she stayed, for she grew 
restive under the necessity of concealing 
her identity, for never had she been so in-
terested in any one as she was in him. The 
power he exerted over her made her only 
safe in retreat. She dared not look into her 
soul and find a deeper feeling for him,
though she knew too well it was there, so 
now she made light of his earnestness.
	“Dr. Ben,” she said, “It’s useless trying 
to tie me down. My nature is wild and 
free. I want to be away.”
	“As you please then. I’m sorry. Yet, 
Rob, I know that some day you will return 
to me. Good-bye, my boy.”
	He clasped her hands with a strong pres-
sure. His manly countenance grew pale as 
he gazed at her. She saw the anxious 
look, but left him to go to the tent, where 
she packed up a few things and in a little 
while she was gone.
	Ben Gannett meantime went to head-
quarters to see the General. Day after day 
he waited, but no trace of Deborah. She 
meanwhile wandered rather aimlessly 
through the camps, engaged in one or two
expeditions, trying to find the only peace 
she could in forgetfulness. It would not 
come, and finally she became disheartened 
and found that she only had one day to 
reach Washington on the Colonel’s com-
mission. She hastened thither at once.
	She dressed herself in full dress regiment-
als and seemed a gallant youth, as she was 
shown into the presence of General Wash-
ington. He received her with the mem-
bers of his staff about him. The room was 
spacious and three or four long French 
windows allowed the sunlight to glisten 
over the place. The golden rays fell full 
upon the slight figure of Deborah, on the 
gold bands and gilt buttons and hat, with 
its cockade of red, white and blue, and
lighted her inspired face, her gleaming 
eyes and parted lips showing the white 
teeth as she paused in expectancy, waiting 
to hear the General’s orders.
	The hour was midday and the sun was at 
its brightest. Yet while it fell upon 
Deborah, it left one part of the room in 
comparative shadow. She had an un-
comfortable feeling that some one was 
standing looking out, but she did not turn 
to make sure, for she was curious to watch 
Washington, and she became agitated as 
she stood there, with all those great men 
gazing at her. But while she looked at the
General’s noble countenance a great calm-
ness came over her and she delivered the
Colonel’s letter into his hands and stood at 
attention, waiting.
	The room was very still; no sound but 
the rustle of the paper as Washington 
turned a page. When he finished reading 
it he looked at her kindly.
“And you are Robert Shirtliffe,” he said 

