[Column 2]
implored her to appear before them thus 
apparelled.
	Deborah hesitated but Ben encouraged
her to comply with the demand, and finally
she sent home for the suit.
	When the memorable night came, she
was in full dress uniform once more, and
carried the self-same rifle which had been
her trusty friend through the war.
	Her curls were tucked under the Wash-
ington hat she wore, and as she stood wait-
ing for Ben, she was a fine youth to behold.
When her husband joined her he stooped
first to kiss her, then said, “My lad once
more, and my love.”
	She laughed merrily.
	“Take care, sir, I may join the service
again.” she said.
	They were shortly entering the large
room where the reception took place.  Men
in gold lace and satin knickerbockers, dia-
mond buckles and lace frills crowded about
them. A hundred candles in tall brass
candlesticks suffused the light. Some one
was singing to the accompaniment of a
spinet. The women in their flowered silks
and satin petticoats and high-heeled slip-
pers and gorgeous buckles, also joined the
crowd around Deborah, who was worthy of
their attention in her brave accoutrements
and her charming face alight with gayety,
her eyes dazzling in their brilliancy.
	An earnest request was given from
Washington to have her go through the
manual of arms with her rifle, which she
readily consented to do. They said of her
afterwards. “She could make a gun talk.”
	But Deborah grew tired of this social
whirl and in a few days they returned
home.
	Dr. Gannett had abandoned his profes-
sion and interested himself about a large
farm, which had been handed down to him
from his ancestors, somewhere in Sharon.
He thoroughly enjoyed the life and though
he had plenty of men to carry on the rough
work, Deborah frequently found him toiling
in the fields on a cool summer’s eve with a
large wide-brimmed hat on his head and in
a suit of home-spun, and she would bid
him come with her for a walk to the sum-
mit of the hill, where they would pause and
watch the moon steal up from the valley,
and later its effulgence would touch the
scene with a glamor of dreaminess and mys-
tery.
	And Deborah clasped her hands about his
arm and said, “It’s very beautiful here,
very beautiful.”
	“Yes,” he answered. “How happy we
are, you and I together. For our life is
love, dear, all of love to live, dear, just
with you.”
	“We’ve had our trial, Ben, haven’t we?”
she continued, as they returned homeward,
“yet I regret nothing of the past, of that
past of my life when I served my country,”
she ended.
	“I know that, Deborah, but now you be-
long to me,” he said firmly.
	“Yes, and I’m not sorry for that either,”
she said gaily.
	They walked slowly through the moon-lit
meadows, while before them the radiance
of the river, on the hills, shimmered seem-
ingly with peace and joy, guiding them
ever onward.
		American Monthly Magazine.


