[Column 1]
		WAYSIDE NOTES.
	A hurried journey by train is seldom
very interesting late in the Autumn, when
gray is the prevailing color in the land-
scape, and the road runs far and away from
the largest towns, only skirting the outside
edge to call one, two or three minutes at
stations to take on passangers, or allow
them barely time to jump off. However,
we did get a glimpse of a muddy river here
and there, and American Falls, which
diversify the scenery just a little, and are
always a momentary delight to the weary
traveler. A dining car en route is a posi-
tive luxury, and when one finds it has been
left at some station by the way, it is sure
to be disappointing. All things considered,
the trip to Northern Idaho was pleasant
until we had to change from a Pulman to
an accommodation train and stay over night
at a country hotel. However, one who
writes can occupy the time, if there is noth-
ing more important to be done; though
when one is expected to furnish an original
sentiment for an exceptional gathering of
relatives and friends, one needs to be in-
spired, and a railway train and country
hot 1 are not specially inviting to a way-
ward muse.
	Here we heard the latest news from the
court at Moscow (not in Russia, but in
Idaho) of the decision concerning strikers,
and saw some of the men who had been
in the “Bull Pen,” but were released and
were now staying at “The Wayside Inn”
at Tekoa, Washington, where we were to
pass the night.
	Early next morning the train for Wallace
was ready, and we pulled out in eager ex-
pectancy of soon reaching our destination.
The day was not as bright as we could have
wished for an anniversary party, but the
sun shone later on, and when we arrived in
Wallace the clouds had nearly disappeared. 
We who live in Utah hardly realize how 
much sunshine we have, until we go far to
the north, where lights are often necessary
at high noon, and always by four in the
afternoon in winter time. Several of the
family were at the station and we were
very soon greeted by all the dear ones who
had gathered for the silver wedding party.
		THE SILVER WEDDING.
	The house was decorated so profusely it
was like a fairy bower of vines and flowers,
artistically arranged and festooned, a real
work of art; in such an Eden one might
have hoped to see one of the “divine nine,”

