LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	The regular Semi-Monthly Meeting con-
vened in the 14th ward hall, October 14,
1899, President M. I. Horne presiding.
	Meeting opened by singing “God moves
in a mysterious way.” Prayer by Annie
T. Hyde. Singing, “Arise, O glorious
Zion. Minutes read and accepted.
	President Horne said these meetings
gave her many thoughts for reflection. We
should testify of the goodness of God, for
our Savior has said “Those who will testi-
fy of me before men, I will testify of them
before my Father.” Alluded to the sorrow
our children meet with who marry outside
our faith. We should lovingly teach our
children to avoid making such attachments.
We should supply them with proper liter-
ature, and teach them the necessity of
having family prayers.
	Sister Diana Read spoke of the blessings
she had received through the faith that had
been exercised for her by her sisters during
her sickness.
	President Pond, from Pocatello, spoke of
the privilege of working in the Temple.
Exhorted the sisters to be kind to one
another and love one another.
	The congregation sang “Now let us re-
joice in the day of salvation.”
	Sister M.A. Hardy said she had belonged
to this Church for fifty years. Her family
deserted her and she left them for the Gos-
pel’s sake. Spoke of the benefit Relief
Society work had been to her.
	A sister in the congregation spoke of the
blessings she had received from her Heaven-
ly Father every day.
	Sister Mary Morris related a circumstance
of a sister who had been completely restored
to health through the administration of the
Elders.
	Another sister bore testimony, and Sister
Mary P. Silver said the Lord is bestowing
blessings upon us continually.
	Sister Stevens said the Lord will never
forsake us.
	Sister Julia S. Woolley spoke of the
necessity of keeping the Word of Wisdom
and becoming worthy mothers of children.
	Sister Almeda Young related a prophesy
of Brother George Goddard in regard to the
Word of Wisdom, which had been fulfilled,


that Box Elder Stake Sunday School officers
and teachers had conformed to this law.
	Three other sisters bore testimonies of
the truth of the Gospel.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. Sing-
ing, Doxology. Benediction by Counselor
Stevenson.
