SS. PRINZESS IRENE, JULY 6, 1904.
	Once more at sea—and this time finding
it much pleasanter. The Prinzess Irene
is called “the lady ship,” and a lady she
is, serene, quiet, steady, and a little slow.
	Hence we are spared the jarring of a
hard-run screw, and forge along as smooth-
ly as a ferry boat. It being midsummer,
there are few passengers going this way,
and this gives comparative quiet to the ear
as well as the rest of the body. And, with
warm and pleasant weather, open ports and
habitable decks give us more “sea air” than
is usually obtainable.
	The rush and whirl of the Congress pre-
vented my writing while it was going on,
and a crowded week of traveling afterward
was equally inimical to letters; but now
there is time enough, and a little space of
removal gives a better picture in the mind.
	For suffragists, the pleasantest feature of
the great gathering might be found in the
universal interest in the “Frauenstimm-
recht” among the gathered representatives
of many lands; the keen interest and large
attendance at suffrage meetings, and the
special honor paid to our great Miss An-
thony. When the empress received the
presidents of each national council, Lady
Aberdeen the incoming and Mrs. Sewall the
outgoing international president, she also
received Miss Anthony, on her own merits.
Well has it been said, “There is nothing
impossible to the steadfast determination of
one human will.”
	When a human being absolutely and de-
terminedly devotes a life to some one pur-
pose, he or she grows great, and that great-
ness is recognized sooner or later: it cannot
be hidden.
	To the old view that women are useful
only as mothers, with some additional con-
venience as housekeepers, the visible pre-
sence of great women who serve the world
in their human capacity, if not as “females,”
is invaluable.
	Of course we need mothers; but there are
plenty.
	Of course, the fullest life should include
all functions, but not all of us may have all
things. And in this strange, changeful,
trying period of the renaissance of women,
many must renounce much—in order to do
more.
	One woman at the Congress, a magnifi-
cent creature from Norway, young, strong,
serenely beautiful, with a long, heavy flaxen
plait hanging down her back, and ropes of
big silver beads around her neck, was also
proudly carrying a sturdy child of a year or
so. It was a splendid picture—the woman
in all her typical, original power and beau-
ty; the handsome, well grown boy to prove
fulfillment of all primal duty; and then the
big human soul and mind—the interest in
her country’s progress and that of other
countries; the journey from her northern
home to join this meeting of the nations.
In the smoother years that are coming, the
alternative will not be forced upon the grow-
ing woman, and she will be able to be a
full-grown, widely useful human creature,

[Column 2]
and a happy woman, too. All honor to
those who have served the world in these
hard years of heavy cost, relentlessly de-
manded and so nobly paid!
	This meeting in Germany was a trium-
phant success. The preliminary suffrage
meeting was satisfactory—some coming to
that who did not stay to the later proceed-
ings; the Council accomplished much, and
the Congress was better than our hopes.
There was a large attendance both of dele-
gates and visitors, and the general public
of Berlin fflled the halls from day to day.
The audiences were immense, including
many men.
	It must be a strange thing to a man, ac-
customed only to see women singly, in
their private capacity, or in social groups,
each with an escort, to be present at these
great gatherings, to see thousands of wom-
en together, not “as women,” but as human
beings and members of society. Quite apart
from argument and appeal, the impression
made by the mere visible presence of such
an aggregate of public-spirited women must
be very great.
	And it is. Many remarks were made on
it by astonished German gentlemen.
	Besides the public welcome, interest and
applause, we were received and entertained
with all cordiality and honor by the hostess
city. The beautiful houses of Berlin re-
ceived us, Art museums, gardens, galler-
ies, parks, all were open to us; royalty,
nobility, and—what really counted for more
than all—“der stadt Berlin” itself magnifi-
cently entertained this organization of wom-
en united to serve the world.
	The reception by the city, our great
banquet in the richly decorated Rathhaus,
marks an epoch in the woman’s movement.
Here was the great public building, built
by men and for men, the official home of
of the governing sex, open to do honor to
the once only domestic sex—with Burgo-
meister, Oberburgermeister, magistrates and
ministers, in their gold chains, receiving
and entertaining us. And this not as indi-
viduals, not as separate dignitaries, however
distinguished some of our women are, but
as an organization of real value to the
world.
	It should be a lesson clear and convincing
to those loyal but limited souls who put
their chosen reform before all others and
say, “we must have prohibition first” or
“suffrage first” or “socialism first.” We
must have first what we can get first—and
some things come together.
	We do not confront a growing child and
demand hair first, or teeth first, or bones
first. We do not, or at least we should not,
confront a growing character, forming or
reforming, and say, “we must have courage
first,” or “patience first.” Growth is com-
plex and gradual, in individuals or in the
world as a whole; and needs to be studied
before we can safely hasten it.
	In earlier days, when less was known of
the nature of man, we assumed the people
could if they chose become quite different
and behave quite differently. Now we are
slowly and somewhat reluctantly finding
out that conduct is the symptom of charac-
ter, and character the result of conditions.
The problem of the scientific reformer is:
How to change conditions so as to improve
character, and thus modify conduct to the
desired form.
	We are learning something of this prob-
lem, though but slowly.
							C. P. G.
				Boston Woman's Journal.


