IN MEMORIAM.
HELEN MAY WINTERS WOODRUFF
	Sister Helen Woodruff who passed away
so suddenly May 25, 1904, while on a trip
to Mexico, whither she had gone with her
husband and little ones, was a charming
young woman, as well as beautiful, the
very soul of good nature, vivacious and
witty, attracting attention wherever she
went by her fascinating manner, and en-
dearing herself to all with whom she be-
came acquainted. ‘‘None knew her but to
love her,” for she possessed all those fine
qualities that make the perfect woman, and
carry away captive men’s hearts. But
Helen was wooed and won by one most
worthy, and to whom she gave her heart’s
devotion.
	Looking back on her wedded life it
seems a happy summer-dream, full of sun-
shine and music and without shadows.
Owen and Helen’s lives blended admirably
together, and they were indeed comrades in
every place, whether at their own hospit-
able home or engaged in social or religious
duties.
	So much has been said and written of
each of them that one can only repeat as it
were that which has already been better
expressed, yet as a friend and neighbor the
writer fee’s she must in the columns of the
EXPONENT record the touching story, and
express her sympathy for the bereaved
mothers’, both Sister Mary Ann Winters,
a lifelong friend, and Sister Emma S. Wood-
ruff with whom in Relief Society work intim-
ately associated. Sweet sympathy helps us
over many hard places in this life, and those
who suffer need the faith, the prayers, the
tender sympathy that helps even by a press-
ure of the hand, Hannah T. King wrote:
		Sweet the sympathetic hand
		Ever ready to expand,
		To raise, to comfort, and to bless
		All the needy in distress.
	Not only have I known the mothers but
the sisters of Sister Helen, and of Brother
Owen Woodruff, and to them my heart goes
out in loving tenderness; and yet they may
indeed rejoice that those dear beloved ones
have made their lives sublime while in this
probation and they know their exaltation is
sure, it only remains for those who love
them to follow in their footsteps that they
also may reach the heavenly mansions pre-
pared for the faithful.
	Sister Helen May Winters was born in
Pleasant Grove Sept, 24, 1873, married to
Abraham Owen Woodruff in the Salt Lake

[Column 2]
Temple June 30, 1897, and she was a bride
any man might be proud to lead to the sa-
cred altar.
		‘‘Grace in all her steps
		Heaven in her eye, in every
		Gesture dignity and love!
		The friend and co-partner
		Of her brother man, weaving
		The crown matrimonial, as
		The badge of the partner of his
		Throne and sovereignty!”
	Four lovely little ones were given to
them, one son Wilford Owen, Helen, Mar-
jorie and Rhoda the baby six months old at
the time of the mother’s decease. The
greatest tenderness is felt by the saints for
these orphan children, and prayers innum-
erable are no doubt offered daily in their
behalf, that they may be protected from
every evil and guarded and guided in the
path that leads to eternal life.
	Sister Helen W. Woodruff was an active
and zealous member of the General Board
of the Y. L. N. M. I. A. and traveled ex-
tensively in the interest of the organiza-
tion. She was one of its loyal supporters
and advocates and was ready at all times to
testify to the truth of the Gospel.
	Helen has gone and we can only say, we
do not understand.


