			SELECTED.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
	ST. GEORGE.
Dear Editor:
	We held our Relief Society conference
June 26, 1904. Apostle Rudger Clawson
and Brother Henry McCune, also the presi-
dency of the stake, Edward Snow and coun-
selors, present, and gave us some good
instructions. President Snow gave us a
great deal of eneouragement, he thought
that once a year we could be represented
in the tabernacle, so you see we are gain-
ing ground. The Lord has the work in
hand; all we have to do is to do right. He
will do the rest. My heart swells with
gratitude to my heavenly Father for His
loving kindness that He has preserved us in
the truth, that He has counted us worthy to
have a name and standing with His people.
I often wonder how many of this people
realize what a blessing it is to them and
their children to live in these peaceful vales.
The trials of life are nothing when we en.
joy the Spirit of the Lord. When we think
of the condition of the world and the little
hope they have for the future.
	Give my kind love to Annie and family,
and accept the same yourself and Sister
Lambert when you see her. I trust you
are well. I know you are busy. May
the Lord bless you with life and health and
every righteous desire of yonr heart is the
wish of your loving sister.
		ANN C. WOODBURY,
President of the Relief Society St. George
		Stake.
	NEBO STAKE.
	The annual conference of the Relief So-
ciety of the Nebo Stake was held in the
Payson tabernacle, President Lylius C. Page
presiding. Visiting sisters present—Mary
Alice C. Lambert and Carrie S. Thomas
from Salt Lake City. Sister Josephine
Peterson reported Payson First ward. Own
a meeting house and had started to build a
granary. Sister Christina Ellworth reported
the Second ward, Payson. Sisters donated
freely, owned granary, had 750 bushels of
wheat. Sister Carrie Holt reported the
First ward society, Spanish Fork. Sister
Pace Second ward, Spanish Fork, reported
that society—owned a meeting house and
have granary nearly completed. Sister
Mary Hallam, Spanish Fork Third ward
society— have about 27 widows, have about
199 bushels of wheat on hand, have donat-
ed $8.00 to the Woman's Building. Sister
Swenson reported Fourth ward society,
Spanish Fork—own meeting house and
granary. Paid $25.00 for Woman's Build-
ing, gathered Sunday eggs to the amount
of $92.00.
	Sister Mary A. Lambert, missionary of
the General Board, was pleased with the
reports given in, and especially those about
the wheat, encouragod the sisters to teach
the children to observe the Sabbath day,
teach them by example as well as precept;
wives should respect their husbands, teach
the children to pay their tithing and honor
their parents. Sister Bathsheba W. Smith
sends her love to the sisters, she is a lovely

[Column 2]
woman; spoke of the blessings received in
working in the Temple.
	Counselor Henry Gardner spoke of the
great benefit of the Relief Society, and en-
couraged the sisters to keep on in the good
work.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas, member of the
General Board, spoke of the beautiful flow-
ers; but thought they were not half so beau-
tiful as the faces of the sisters; was pleased
with the reports; said how pleased Sister
Smith would be to know how united the
sisters all are.
	Sister Page invited all to stay for lunch.
Benediction by President Page.
	Afternoon session, Sister Page presiding.
After the opening exercises a song was
sung by Esther Coombs. Sister Page called
for more reports. Sister Ferguson reported
the Lake Shore society. The Leland so-
ciety reported by Sister Chisholm—the sis-
ters are all united, it is a new ward. Ben-
jamin society, reported by Sister Bingham
—the sisters are all united, but are so
scattered; own a granary, and are quite
earnest in taking care of the sick. Sister
Ball recited "Somebody's Mother."
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas said she would like
to speak about the nurses' class, which she
did at some length, hoped we would be
able to send some from our stake; read a
letter of instructions from Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith; spoke of woman's work.
	Sister M.A. Lambert spoke of the nurses'
class and the Woman's Building. Said we
should have confidence in our children and
impress upon their minds the value of
prayer; we should be saviors upon mount
Zion to bless every one.
	Sister Lucy Dixon recitsd “At a Stylish
Church.”
	The officers of the General Board and of
the Nebo Stake Relief Society were unan-
imously sustained.
	Stake Counselor Hyrum Lemmon spoke
of the duties of the Relief Society in taking
care of the sick and poor, also the plan of
having nurses to take care of our sick,
should all be united.
	Sister Dixon said the sisters of the Lake
Shore ward had invited us to come there
for our next conference, and we would ad-
journ this conference for three months, to be
held at Lake Shore. Read a sentiment and
urged all to think of the nurses' class, and
try and get some to go and take that course.
	Benediction by Sister Mary Roberts.
		HATTIE WRIDE, Cor. Sec.
	BEAR LAKE.
	The annual conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Bear Lake Stake convened in the
Bloomington meeting house at 2 p.m., July
9, 1904, President Julia P. Lindsay presid-
ing.
	President Lindsay addressed the sisters:
“We have claim upon the blessings of the
Lord. and we shall not be left to ourselves;
though we have not any visitors, we can
hear many good things from our sisters
in Bear Lake: It is necessary to obtain
that which we need for our sustenance, but
we should not allow all our time to be used
in our temporal labors, the spiritual food is


[Column 1]
also necessary for our welfare. God reigns
supreme.” She felt grateful for the pros-
perity that surrounded the Saints.
	Verbal reports as follows: Bloomington,
President S. Patterson; Liberty, President
M. Morgan; Sharon, President E. Miles;
Montpelier, President Agnes Pearce; Ben-
nington, President M.Van Orman; George-
town, Jeanet Thibets; Raymond, President
Martha Hart.
	Counselor Mary Bagley had noted the de-
votion manifested by the presidents. Would
not be deprived of attending Relief Society
if it were possible to attend for all this
world’s goods. The influence felt in asso-
ciating together is a power for good; enu-
merated many of the blessings received by
attending and being energetic in the per-
formance of duties, such as visiting the
sick, administering comfort to those around
us both by word and deed. Had the priv-
lege recently of listening to a sister who
lived in the days of the Prophet Joseph and
who was also a member of the first Relief
Society.
	Sister Sarah A. Allred, of the Stake Pres-
dency of Young Ladies, thought we were
all laboring for the same goal, should be
willing to divide our substance with those
who are less fortunate, charitable to all
God’s children, and pray for all regardless
of color or creed.
	Stake Missionary Elnora Austin felt that
it is good to have a clear conscience; it is a
great satisfaction to feel that we are trying
to keep the laws of God, Felt like trying
to overcome her weaknesses.
	Bishop Alma Findlay spoke on the object
of this probation. There is no reason why
we should not be happy, the Gospel brings
joy to the heart.
	President J. P. Lindsay expressed her
gratitude for the good advice and instruc-
tion given and for the Holy Spirit made
manifest. Prayer by Elder John Bagley.
	Relief Society officers’ meeting, July 10,
1904.
	Verbal reports not given on Saturday
were given: Fish Haven,by President Jessie
Nelson; St. Charles by President Sarah A.
Young; Wardboro and Dingle were report-
ed by President J. P. Lindsay, who with
other stake officers had recently visited, had
also filled vacancies where needed; Ovid,by
President Mary Jensen; Paris, First ward,
by President Jane Stucki; Paris. Second
ward, by President Sarah Ashley; Lanark,
by Counselor Sarah A. Ludlum; Cokeville,
by President J. Lindsay.
	President William Budge was pleased to
see the interest manifested by the attend-
ance. The reports have been interesting.
Should take care of the grain; good grana-
ries should be built. It would not be wis-
dom to donate wheat unless it can be pre-
served for our use in time of need. The
spirit of disobedience and independence is
growing among our children and young
people; they neglect their meetings and
other duties. Felt pleased to offer words of
encouragement to all who are devoted to
this noble work.
	Sunday afternoon, July 10.1904, 2 p. m.
	Meeting was presided over by Bishop
Alma Findlay until after the administration
of the Sacrament.
	President Julia Lindsay then conducted
the meeting and addressed a large congre-
gation in relation to our object in meeting
in conference. She earnestly solicited the
prayers of those present that she might
have wisdom and strength to instruct her
sisters. We have additional work in our

[Column 2]
society—that is, the Mothers Work. Asked
the young ladies to come and take advan-
tage of these opportunities, they are espec-
ially prepared for those who are raising
children. We can accomplish much good
if we are only united.
	President Nancy E. Pugmire, of the Y.
L. M. I. A. said, ‘‘It is a pleasant thought
to know that we are all true to the Gospel.
If we endure to the end we will be saved;
we should try and get all the sunshine into
our souls that is possible. We will be
known by the company we keep. Thought
that many of the parents were too indulg-
ent; we are ambitious for our children.
There is nothing that will bring us greater
satisfaction than a well spent life.
	Sister Elnora Austin said the Relief So-
ciety has a work among the young people
in trying to keep them in subjection to the
proper influences and not allow them to run
at large at all hours of the night.
	Sister Amelia Hoge endorsed the re-
marks made upon the government of our
children. Mothers should instruct their
daughters to become good wives and moth-
ers, that they may understand the rules
and regulations of a model home.
	Bishop W. W. Clark felt like supporting
the organization; they are indeed filling
their mission as a Relief Society. Missed
from our midst Sister E. Hart.  Pleased to
see sisters uncover their heads in religious
services. Many other valuable remarks
were given.
	Sister Mary Bagley said we should look
after those who are weak in the faith.
Jesus came to heal the sick. It is our duty
to look after those who are sick in body,
also in spirit, and comfort the distressed by
kind and encouraging words.
	Closing prayer by Bishop Alma Findlay.
LOUISE TUELLER, Cor. Secretary-
	PIONEER STAKE.
The first quarterly conference of the
Pioneer Stake Relief Society was held on
Jnne 9th, in the Seventh Ward Assembly
rooms, President Annie Wells Cannon pre-
siding. Commenced at 10 a.m. There
were present on the stand besides the reg-
ular stake officers, Sisters Phebe Y. Beatie
and Carrie S. Thomas of the General
Board and President Annie S. Musser and
counselors of Liberty Stake, President Mar-
garet Romney of Ensign Stake, Sister Mary
Alice Lambert and others. There was a
fine attendance of members and a splendid
spirit prevailed.
	After the opening exercises, the ward
presidents reported the condition of the
several branches of the stake, and then fol-
lowed some interesting remarks by Sister
Beatie, pertaining principally to the Relief
Society nurse work. She gave much valu-
able instruction in regard to the selecting
of young women for this work and also as
to the care of them by friends, in homes
when they come from outside settlements.
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas spoke on the
same subject, and referred to the charges of
nurses. Said she knew “the laborer was
worthy of his hire,” still the Latter-day
Saint women must have care, and the
nurse ought not to expect more than
the husband’s wage's for her services; that
she thought there should be a reasonable
arrangement made concerning the prices
for nurses. Spoke interestingly on the
mother's work and said by Relief Society
work we associated ourselves with the very
best women, and always received fine op-
portunities of mingling where the Spirit of

[Column 3]
the Lord abounded.
	President Musser addressed the meeting,
and spoke quite interestingly about her own
stake work and her newly aroused interest
in Relief Society work.
	President Annie W. Cannon urged the
sisters to heed the good counsel given and
spoke especially about the progress of the
Relief Society work, and how we kept on
reaching after new ideas and introducing
new lines of work; that the women of Zion
were always bringing forth new interests,
and that our work was given us through
inspiration, even as we were organized by
inspiration; that when President Brigham
Young called Sister Romania B. Pratt to go
away and study medicine, it was the open-
ing of a new era for our women. He saw
the great necessity among the people for
intelligent women doctors, and he placed
this mission upon her, to prepare herself
and to teach others, that there might be less
suffering and sorrow among the women of
Zion, and now we not only have women
physicians, but trained nurses throughout
the stakes of Zion. It is not in the City
where the want of good, intelligent care is
felt so much as in the outlying settlements,
and we must open our homes to these girls
who come here to learn nursing for the
benefit of our sisters.
	After singing and prayer, the meeting
took a recess until two o’clock.
	At two in the afternoon the sisters re-
assembled, and the hall was filled. On the
stand, beside the stake officers, were Pres-
dent McLachlan and Counselers Sylvester
Q. Cannon and Charles H. Hyde of Pioneer
Stake, and we were also honored by the
presence of the General President of the
Relief Society, Bathsheba W. Smith, and
the General Secretary, Emmeline B. Wells,
also Sister Julina L. Smith of the General
Board, besides Presidents Musser and Rom-
ney, Sister Thomas and others.
	After the opening exercises, SisterCannon
introduced Sister Bathsheba W, Smith, the
General President, snd the only person liv-
ing who was present at the organization of
the Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph
Smith. President Smith spoke briefly of her
great interest and devotion to Relief Society
and Temple work, and read some instruc-
tions given by the Prophet Joseph to the
Saints. She bore a strong testimony of the
truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Julina Smith followed and spoke
about raising our children in the princi-
pses of the Gospel, and the great help we
had now through the Primary, Sunday
School and Improvement work.
	Sister Emmeline B. Wells then spoke at
some length about Relief Society work in
its different and interesting branches. Spoke
of the great good the sisters had done;
related some reminiscences of Kirtland and
Nauvoo. Spoke oi the Relief Society as
the first auxiliary organization in the
Church, therefore standing next to the
priesthood.
	Miss Ruth Dahlquist then sang a solo,
after which President McLachlan spoke to
the sisters very interestingly indeed, nnd
gave excellent advice about attending their
meetings punctually and regularly, and
said he fully realized the great benefit of
the Relief Society organizations. He was
followed by Counselor Sylvester Q. Can-
non, who also made interesting and instruc-
tive remarks.
	The names of the General Officers of the
Relief Society and the Stake Officers were


then presented to the meeting and sus-
tained, and six missionaries were appointed
to assist the stake officers and sustained.
	After singing and prayer, the conference
adjourned until September 9, 1904.
	CLARA LITTLE CLAWSON, Secretary.


