IN MEMORIUM
	Sketch of the life of Sister Sarah Ann Scott
who departed this life June 7th 1904, after seven
months illness from general debility. Deceased
was born in Philadelphia Sept. 6th 1832, became a
member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in 1847. Married Elder Andrew H.
Scott January 12th 1851, at Kanesville, Iowa. came
to Utah the same year with her husband and moth-
er living in Salt Lake City until 1852, when she
moved to Provo and has since resided there was
the mother of eleven children, 102 grandchildren,
and 36 great-grand-children. Has been President
of the Provo 2nd Ward Relief Society, since 1867
until last spring,
	Resolutions of respect adopted by the Relief
Society of the Provo 2nd Ward.
	Whereas—It Has pleased our Heavenly Father
to call from our midst our most beloved President
and co-laborer Sarah Ann Scott and
	Whereas—She has labored as a R. S. President
36 years until her last sickness and
	Whereas—She has labored in aiding five suc-
cessive Bishops in caring for the poor, comforting
the sick, and spiritually uplifting the sorrowful be
it therefore
	Resolved—That through her departure the R.S.
has lost a faithful and zealous worker, a wise
President, and a devoted, practical, Latter-day
Saint and
	Resolved—That we, her co-laborers, emulate
her devoted life and example and may her sons
aud daughters and grandchildren constantly look
to her ideal life for strength and perseverance
while toiling for eternal riches and
	Resolved—That these resolutions be placed up-
on the records of the Provo 2nd Ward R. S. and
that they be published in the WOMANS EXPONENT
also in the Provo Enquirer.
					HARRIET SCOTT
					SINA HENDRICKSON
					ELIZA NELSON
				In behalf of 2nd Ward R. S.


Why is a man who adds to false rumors
like one who believes all that he is told?—
Because he re-lies on all that he hears.


[Column 1]
			MOTHER’ WORK.
PLAN OF MOTHERS’ WORK FOR THE RELIEF
	SOCIETY BRANCHES OF THE UTAH STAKE
	OF ZION, FOR THE YEAR 1905.
		Self Culture.
1—Physical culture for mothers:
	(a) Care of general health.
	(b) Preparation for maternity.
	(c) Personal appearance.
2—Intellectual culture of mothers.
	(a) What literature shall she read?
	(b) Art in the home.
	(c) Practical science in the home.
3—Moral culture for mothers:
	(a) Gospel ideals of Morality.
	(b) Self control.
	(c) Social duties.
4—Religious culture for mothers:
	(a) Study of the principles of the Gos-
		pel.
	(b) Application of the principles of the
		Gospel.
	(c) Result of study and Application of
		the Principles of the Gospel, as
		manifest in the Relief Society and
		in Church work.
