NINTH WARD R. S. REUNION.
	By invitatton of the President of the
Ninth Ward Relief Society of this City,
Tuesday, June 5, 2 p.m., the General Pres-
ident of the Relief Society and the writer
attended a meeting of that society; there
were also present President Annie S. Mus-
ser of the Liberty stake and her counselors,
Zurviah G. Eardley and Mary E. Hodgson.
Sister Lucy Kimball had also been specially
invited. There was a good attendance of
members, President Mary Mair presiding,
both her counselors were on the platform,
and Bishop West and Counselor Taylor
Woolley.
	After the usual exersises, President B.W.
Smith made some excellent remarks on the
early days of the Church and spoke of the
first organization of the Relief Society at
which she was present; she then read some


of the Prophet Joseph’s remarks to the sis-
ters in that early day, which she had copied
from the minutes kept by Sister Eliza R.
Snow, the first secretary of the society. A
lovely spirit pervaded the meeting while
she was addressing the audience. Sister
Lucy W. Kimball also related personal rem-
iniscences of the Prophet Joseph, in whose
family she had lived and referred to the
Prophet’s wife (Sister Emma Smith), her
good traits of character and her great char-
ity; she alluded to her own home life in
the valley after her marriage to President
Heber C. Kimball. Other speakers were
President Annie S. Musser, Z. C. Eardley,
M. E Hodgson, E. Webb and the writer.
Bishop West made a few remarks endorsing
what had been said and praised the sisters
for their good works. Counselor Taylor
Woolley added a few earnest words and
pronounced the benediction.
	Refreshments were served after the meet-
ing had adjourned in a spacious room ad-
joining the hall, and social conversation,
with instrumental music on the piano, and
a song or two enlivened the hours and made
a pleasing variety, which was most enjoy-
able.
	Four new members were enrolled on
that day, which is always a hopeful sign of
progress. The hall was decorated with
beautiful flowers in great variety, and the
visiting sisters were each presented with a
handsome bouquet. These reunions are
helpful to the sisters in promoting sociabil-
ity and union of feeling, aims and interests.


