EDITORIAL NOTE.
	Stakes visited in June and July of this
year are—Pocatello, Sisters Clarissa S. Wil-
liams and Phebe Y. Beatie; Tooele, Dr. Ellis
R. Shipp and Elizabeth J. Stevenson; We-
ber, Sarah Jenne Cannon and Maggie C.
Hull; Big Horn, Priscilla Smith and Hattie
B. Harker; Summit, Counselor Annie T.
Hyde and Rebeeca E. Little; North San-
pete, South Sanpete and Sevier, Counselor
Annie T. Hyde and Martha A. Cannon;
Bannock, Sisters Emmeline B. Wells and
Sarah J. Jenne Cannon; Utah and Alpine,
President Bathsheba W. Smith and Sister
Emmeline B. Wells; Davls; President
B. W. Smith, Sisters E. B. Wells and Julina
L. Smith; Nebo, Sisters Carrie S. Thomas
and Mary Alice Lambert; San Luis, Mar-
garet A. Caine and Hattie B. Harker; Wa-
satch, C. S. Thomas and R. E Little.


[For the Exponent.]
		FOREIGN LETTER.
	July Fourth, nineteen and four, was cele-
brated by the Americans who live in Leip-
zig at Wald Schatke, in an enthusiastic and
fitting manner.
	An automobile, with our nation’s flags in
evidence, first attracted our attention, while
near the band stand, a beautiful new one,
was in full view. O, it waved so proudly,
as we stopped to count the stars in its folds.
Yes, forty-five, and ours the last, though
not the least, by any means of that stately
family.
	We had reached the place, by a walk of
seven miles, through the forest of Couner-
vitz Holy, a little dorf or village. It was
an ideal day, cool and pleasant, so that we
scarcely noticed the long walk. We lost
our way for a time and roamed through
paths and roads each one seeming more
picturesque than the other. The forests are
so near the large cities here, that it is only
a few minutes walk, to while away an hour
or two in the company of solitude and sil-
ence. Seats are placed at intervals, where
one may rest and commune with themselves,
away from the marts of men.
	The river Bleise, a pretty, slow stream
winds through the wild tangle of shrubs
and trees. The grassy knolls are dotted
with butter-cups, yellow as gold, and with-


in a few yards of us, were three deer, the
little one looking at us with that wild look,
that did not even evince surprise, I feel sad
and alone, oft times in a crowd but here the
language of silence thrills my heart.
	While the young people cut gum from
the Spruce trees I dreamed. A soft song of
the past, is sung by the passing breeze that
murmurs through the wide spreading trees.
Beautiful castles rise to view, both of the
present and future, gilded by the golden sun
rays as they gleam through the waving
boughs, where the birds sing love songs,
songs of hope and promise. But here we
are at last, and the games are engaging
every one’s attention.
	The agility of the men, and the graceful
movements of the women, proclaim them
“Americans.” Their dress too, proclaims
their nationality, and it is refreshing to hear
them talk, with that ease and freedom, for
which we are noted.
	A number of prizes were awarded, amid
peals of laughter, one lady winning a din-
ner set.
	In the evening fire works, and a dance
closed the festivities.
	But long before they were over, we left;
taking a short cut to the car for home, pass-
ing a large party of students, with their
sweet-hearts, who were enjoying a boat ride
on the still river.
	Leipzig is not so large nor beautiful a city
as Berlin, but it has its Palmen garden, so
pardonably renowned. It reminds one of
fairy land, or a scene from some fair tropi-
cal country.
	The rose garden, the landscape, trees
and shrubs, cannot be described, but they
show the care, and utter disregard of cost,
shown by the Germans, in their pleasure re-
sorts. The music from the band lends en-
chantment, to the glorious surroundings.
