ANNUAL MEEING R. S. CANNON WARD.
	President Rebecca A. Sharp, of Cannon
Ward in Pioneer Stake, invited the Society
to meet at her beautiful home on Twelfth
South and Redwood Road, to keep their an-
nual day. Her parlors were well filled, a
number of visitors being invited, and there
was a good attendance of members, as well
as Bishop Lewis M. Cannon, who was also
in attendance. Visitors were General Pres-
ident Bathsheba W. Smith, her first coun-
selor Annie T. Hyde, Secretary Emmeline
B. Wells, Counselors Sarah J. Jenne Cannon
and Clara C. Cannon, of the former Salt
Lake Stake, and former Treasurer Marga-
ret C. Hull. After singing, prayer, etc.,
Secretary Martha T. Cannon read the min-
utes of the last meeting, which were quite
interesting and contained remarks by Pres-
ident M. Isabella Horne, who was at that
time President of the Salt Lake Stake, which
included the four new stakes. Sister
S. J. J, Cannon stated that Sister Horne
had been expected to be present at this
meeting, but regretted very much she was
not quite well enough to come.
	President Sharp made opening remarks
and welcomed the sisters, was glad to see
so many, etc. She spoke of a case of sick-
ness iu the ward and solicited means to
aid the family, who were in distressed cir-
cumstances. The sisters who addressed
the meeting were first, President B. W.
Smith, who occupied a few minutes in giv-
ing good counsel and expressing her pleas-
ure in her labors, both in the Society and
in the Temple. Counselor Annie T. Hyde
followed, alluding to the subject of criti-
cism and slander. Sisters Sarah A. J. Can-
non, Clara C. Cannon and Martha T. 
Cannon each made excellent remarks and
bore faithful testimonies of the truth of the
Gospel.
	Sister M. C. Hull sung in her magnificent
voice, “The Holy City.”


Sister E. B. Wells spoke briefly, referring
to the early days of the organization.
	Bishop Cannon was then asked to address
the sisters, but said he would prefer to
hear Sister Smith tell of the first meeting
of this Society. In response to this Sister
Bathsheba W. Smith drew a pretty word
picture of that unique gathering in Nauvoo
when only eighteen women were present,
though the Prophet Joseph was there, with
Elders Willard Richards and John Taylor.
Bishop Cannon added a few words express-
ing his good wishes for the Society, men-
tioning the grain question, etc., and willing-
ness to aid them in all undertakings. Two
new members, both young women, were
added to the enrollment, and after singing
and prayer the annual meeting was ad-
journed for one year.
	After the adjournment refreshments were
served, including fine rosy apples raised in
the orchard where the home stands. Sister
Sharp is said to be a model home-maker,
as well as a thoroughly good president, her
counselors are efficient, and she has an ex-
cellent secretary and competent treasurer
and corps of teachers.


