WONDERFUL OLD MEN.
	Men of thought have always been dis-
tinguished for their age. Solon, Sophoc-
les, Pindar, Anacreon, and Xenophon were
octogenarians. Kent, Buffon, Goethe, Fon-
tenelle and Newton were over eighty when
they died; So was Harvey, the discoverer
of the circulation of the blood. Many men
have done excellent work after they have
passed eighty years. Landor wrote his
“Imaginary Conversations’ when eighty-
five, Izaak Walton wielded a ready pen at
ninety. Hahnemann married at eighty and
was working at ninety-one. Michael
Angelo was still painting his giant canvas-
es at eighty-nine, and Titian at ninety
worked with the vigor of his early years.
Fontenelle was as light-hearted at ninety-
eight as at forty, and Newton at eighty-
three worked as hard as he did in middle
life. Cornara was in far better health at
ninety-five than at thirty, and as happy as
a boy. Dr. Du Boisy was practising at
Hanover as a physician in 1897, going his
daily rounds at the age of one hundred and
three. William Reynold Salmon, M. R.
C. S., of Conbridge, Glamorganshire, died
on March 11th, 1897, at the age of one
hundred and six. At the time of his death
he was the oldest known individual of indis-
putably authenticated age, the oldest phy-
sician, the oldest member of the Royal Col-
lege of Surgeons, and the oldest Freemason
in the world.

	Miss Florence Nightingale recently passed
her eighty-fourth birthday. Although
long since removed from conspicuous par-
ticipation in affairs she is still active and
wields a strong influence ln a quiet manner
in charitable and reform movements. It
is said that she will have in a short time
the Order of Merit bestowed upon her by
King Edward. This is a decoration founded
by the king. It is well merited by Flor-
ence Nightingale, who began the great
system of nursing the sick and wounded
in war time, which now prevails over the
world.
	An afternoon “tea” for Americans only,
was given by Mary B. Willard, in Berlin,
whose School for Girls has been noted for
a quarter of a century. The Ambassador,
Consul General Mason, Dr. Dickie, and
other prominent Americans, gave to the
pleasant rooms an atmosphere highly appre-
ciated by those who were several thousand
miles away from home. Mrs. Willard has
sold her school, and will reside in New
York after August.
	Great disappointment is felt because of
the limited number whom the empress
received on Tuesday. Sixteen women only
were elected to represent the twenty
countries, but three of those were from the
United States. When Canada, Australia
and New Zealand protested because they
were not invited, the answer was that they
had their representation through Great
Britain.


It is told of the Archbishop of Canter-
bury that he once asked a Sunday School
class what the difference was between King
Solomon and other men. No one could
solve the problem. “Come,” said his grace
—“was there any difference, for instance,
between King Solomon and myself?” And
then one child ventured a reply—“Please,
sir, Solomon was wise!”


