PIONEER DAY, JULY 24, 1904.
	Monday, July 24, of this year, was very
appropriately celebrated wtth exercises in
the Assembly Hall and a street parade in
imitation of the original methods of coming
into the valley in the earliest times. The
committee had previously sent out invita-
tions to all the Pioneers of 1847 that there
would be a banquet for them and some
prizes given. The place of gathering was
in Liberty Park, and bands of music were
in attendance. Two military companies
from Fort Douglas were in the parade, in
charge of Captain Briant S. Wells of the
H. & L. infantry, and the march from South
Temple to the Park was quite satisfactory
and creditable in its display, civil and mil-
itary, of old-time eannons and wagons and
other details.
	The society Daughters of the Pioneers
had the banquet in charge, and the stand-
ing committee on entertainment, assisted
by some of the presiding officers, worked
assiduously to make the dinner a success.
They provided for a hundred, but more
were seated at the first table.
	It is well known that only a very few of
the first band of original Pioneers are now
living, and that first company that followed
them, arriving here in October of the same
year, and a few of the Mormon Battalion,
make up what is reckoned the Pioneers.
Some of these were then little children or
babes in arms.
	The festivities of several kinds, music
and speech making, continued through the
day, and at night there were brilliant fire-
works to entertain those who were not too
weary to remain and witness the pyrotech-
nics.
	Among those of 1847 who were entitled
to presents because of age was Sister Mary
Isabella Horne, who was given a handsome
silk umbrella with gold handle. Governor
Heber M. Wells, in his happy style, made
the presentation, and the honored lady res-
ponded in a few gracious and well chosen
words. The oldest Pioneer of the brethren
was Bro. James Luch, who was given a
gold-headed cane, with a few fitting words.
	Utah may well be proud of the Pioneers,
when they recall the labor not only of
crossing the plains, but to make this barren
land habitable; and too much credit cannot
be awarded to the Pioneer of Pioneers—
Brigham Young—and his faithful co-labor-
ers who came here with him on that famous
pilgrimage—Heber C. Kimball, Willard
Richard, Orson Pratt and Wilford Wood-
ruff.


