APOSTLE ABRAHAM OWEN WOODRUFF.
	The first thought that came to the writer
when hearing the shocking news of the
death of Elder Woodruff who had died in
Mexico was “the beloved Apostle” and such
he was to many in very deed. His tender
tone of voice, his gracious manner at all
times and in all places, his innocent, child-
like expression, his genial kindliness, all
betokened the loveliness of his well-rounded
character. We can only think of him as a
man possessed of all the best attributes of
heart and soul, that tend toward the high-
est aspirations reaching out to eternal life.
One thinks of the Savior’s illustration when
He took the little child and set him in their
midst and said, “Unless ye become as one
of these, ye can in no wise enter the king-
dom of heaven.”
	Owen Woodruff, like his great and well-
beloved father, was the very personification
of humility; but he has gone from this
world to join his father in the place pre-
pared for those who have been faithful
here; and though those nearest and dearest
will mourn his absence, yet they have the
blessed assurance which the Gospel affords
of meeting him again where there is no
more parting, or tears or sorrow for ever-
more.
	Abraham Owen Woodruff, son of Presi-
dent Wilford Woodruff and his wife, Emma
Smith Woodruff, was born November 22,
1872, on the farm just outside the city limits
where he afterwards made his own home;
he was of a religious nature and fond of his
home and of the companionship of those
who were inclined to serve the Lord, in
this respect following in the footsteps of his
illustrious and exemplary father.
	He filled a successful mission to Germany
remaining there between two and three
years, during which time he also visited
Austria and Italy, and made good use of
these opportunities. Not long after his re-
turn he married Helen May Winters, June
30, 1897, and on October 7, of the same
year, was ordained an Apostle; ever since
he has labored diligently among the Saints,
and traveled hither and thither in the sev-
eral Stakes of Zion, and was one of the
principal colonizers of the Big Horn coun-


try in Wyoming, an arduous undertaking.
	Although his loss is deeply felt by his
family and associates and indeed all the
Saints, for he was widely known and every-
where beloved, his good works and noble
record will never perish, and his name will
be a synonym for good among the Saints
for all time. He died in Mexico, June 20,
1904. It is sad to die away from home
among strangers, yet it can make no differ-
ences to the one who goes, for the earth is
the Lord’s and his hand is over all, and “not
a sparrow falls to the ground without His
notice,” therefore we know as the poet says,
	“And not on a blind and aimless way,
		The spirit goeth.”


