MRS. HORNE AT HOME.
	Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne is home again,
having reached here August 18, feeling de-
lighted with her success while away and


the beautiful places she has seen iu her trip
abroad. Mrs. Horne went to Europe to
attend the International Council and Con-
gress in Berlin; she left this city April 18, ult.,
and went first to New York and afterwards to
Boston to attend the annual meeting of the
Daughters of the Revolution, which was
held there early in May. Mrs. Horne was
proxy for the Regent of the D. R. Utah
Society, and was present at all the meetings
and festivities. She was received with the
greatest courtesy and had every opportunity
to vote and to speak for the society she rep-
resented. The meetings were interesting,
the entertainments enjoyable. Mrs Horne
sailed from Boston for Liverpool on board
the “Cretic,” Miss Christensen of Utah
accompanying her) and Mrs. Lydia D. Al-
der and daughter May were also in the
same ocean party.
	Mrs. Horne arrived in Berlin in time to
attend all the meetings and gatherings of
the International Council, which com-
menced the week previous to the Con-
gress. Most of our readers have read
a great deal of this wonderful Congress of
representative women from many lands,
and Mrs. Horne and others, who have had
this privilege of attending and participating
in these immense gatherings will be able to
tell us something more of the magnitude,
and magnificence of these wonderful affairs,
that have been so largely successful in ev-
ery respect. No such Woman’s Congress
has ever convened in the world’s history as
this last one in Berlin. The great Con-
gress held in Chicago in connection with
the World’s Fair, and the much greater
one held five years ago in London, scarcely
compare with this last superb effort made
by the great body of earnest, brilliant,
strong-minded women, who are uniting
their forces for the betterment of the world.
Utah was well represented in this great
congress, not only in having places on the
program and the opportunity of speaking
to large audiences, but in various other
ways, garden parties, receptions, “teas,”
“coffees” and public entertainments.
	In another part of this paper Mrs. Lydia
D. Alder has given a few items cencerning
this great congress, and we shall possibly
be having more and more of the incidents,
and what took place, as thought crystalizes
in the minds of those who saw and heard
and took part in these brilliant assemblies,
and drove and rode and walked through the
grand scenery, and gazed upon the old ruins
as well as the grandeur of the new in arch-
itecture, statuary, pictures, and all that
makes the old world beautiful.


