Dr. Valeria H. Parker President of National Council of Women United States of America Dr.. Valeria H. Parker, Director of the Department of Protective Measures of the American Social Hygiene Association, has had a long experience in social work.. She was born in Chicago, but since 1905 has lived further east, her home being in New York. Her training for her profession was obtained in Augusta Hospital, Berlin, Germany, in 1892; at Daros Platza, Switzerland, 1895; Hering Homeopathic Medical College, Chicago, 1902. In 1898, she was graduated receiving the degree of B. A. From Oxford College, Oxford, Ohio. Probably some of her medical work was done in this institution, but we have no information as to that. She has not been in active medical practice since her marriage, in 1905. In 1913, she was appointed the first woman probation officer in her home town of Greenwich, Connecticut. The following year she became Field Secretary of the Connecticut Social Hygiene Association, and continued to work for this organization until 1919, when she joined the staff of the American Social Hygiene Association. From 1919 to 1921, she was Chairman of the Social Hygiene Committee of the National League of Women Voters. She directs the social hygiene activities of the National Congress of Parents and Teachers and also the Department of Social Morality of the National Woman's Christian Temperance Union. In 1920, when the United States Public Health Service held its Institute on Venereal Diseases and Social Hygiene, she was appointed one of the lecturers, and she was also a member of the Conference Committee of Fifty for the All-American Conference on Venereal Diseases of that year. In addition to her lecture and educational work, she has had experience in the direction of a home for deserted and unmarried mothers and their babies, and during the war was appointed, under the Connecticut State Council of Defense, supervisor of a force of six policewomen, who formed part of the state police force and acted as law-enforcement and protective agents. In June 1921, Dr. Parker was appointed to succeed Dr. Thomas 'A Storey, as Executive Secretary of the United States Interdepartmental Social Hygiene Board, a federal board established by Congress, in 1918, to protect soldiers and sailors from vicious influence and from venereal infections, in addition to promoting educational and scientific research in these fields. Through this work, Dr. Parker was enabled to develop further medical and sociological researches of value to the whole nation, and to cooperate with the United States Public Health Service, and other 
 federal voluntary agencies, in stimulating local officials and voluntary groups to new efforts in repressing prostitution, securing medical treatment, and rehabilitation for those needing them, and employing policewomen and other protective workers. No attempt was made by the Board to usurp police powers, but its work was one of aid and cooperation, its wide experience enabling it to help local authorities effectively. On the termination of her leave of absence, July 1, 1922, Dr. Parker returned to the staff of the American Social Hygiene Association, as Director of its Department of Protective Measures. The Association is the representative voluntary social hygiene agency in the United States, its departments of Public Information, Educational Measures, Protective Measures, Legal Measures, and Medical Measures, cooperating closely with the governmental agencies such as the United States Public Health Service, United States Bureau of Education, the Department of Labor and the Department of Justice. It also: works with state and community boards of health, and other recognized voluntary organizations having problems in its field. Through its motion pictures, books and pamphlets, exhibits, and other material, together with the advisory service rendered by its staff, the 'Association jhas been able to give efficient cooperation to the influential women's organizations in the United States and other countries. Close relations are maintained with the League of Women Voters, the Women's Christian Temperance Union, the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, the Council of Jewish Women, the General Federation of Women's Clubs, and other organizations, regardless of sectarian or political affiliations. In all this work, Dr. Parker is active in assisting to solve the complicated problems arising from the awakened public sense of responsibility for preventing sex delinquency, and in dealing fairly and wisely with the delinquent. Her wide experience in this field is constantly called upon, and her services as lecturer are in demand throughout the United States.