Ode to Aunt Eliza R. Snow Maggie Ivins Bentley
Second poem to receive honorable mention in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest

Deep in my heart are cherished memories Of a dear lady, now with us no more; One who possessed a queenly dignity, With naught unwomanly to mar her grace, When but a child upon my mother's knee, In pensive mood [I listened to the lore, Thrilling beyond compare, of pioneers, Whho braved the dangers of the West, to find A fitting place in which to make a home Where they might worship as did Saints of old, And rear their children in the path of right. Among those noble men and women, who For sake of conscience fled familiar scenes, Courting the dangers of the wilderness, Was Aunt Eliza, brave and true of heart, Though frail in body, and by grief bowed down, Because of tribulation's iron hand. She ne'er was blessed with children of her own, Yet, as a mother was revered by many Who came to her for counsel and advice, Or comfort in their greatest lhour of need; Her poesy, likewise, gave consolation To Saints in Zion and in foreign lands— Produced rare hymns of praise, and glorified The cause for which her labor was expended. From youth to age her valiancy was proven, Regardless of the stress or circumstance; By tongue and pen she heralded the truth For which our martyred prophet suffered death. What though the mortal casket of this dear And gracious lady, long ago, was laid Away in mother earth?—Her fame lives on, And will continue so to do, as long As time shall last. Dear Aunt Eliza:— Memory recalls the day when you Gave inspiration to the little ones Who flocked to meet you, as from place to place, You journeyed, working for the good of all; The old, the young, the high as well as low, Revered you as their prophetess and friend— Even as Miriam, of Bible lore wasloved By countless hosts of ancient Israel. Aunt Zina's name, with yours is always linked, As true companion for the public weal; We loved you both, and many others, who Helped us to learn to do the better part. God bless the noble pioneers who built So well, and made it possible for us To live and strive, as Saints of Latter days. — 2 Si Ze xe ) Sf. @::. FPR AT, a Sell Zz Ale ON 4 ONG THE é Relief Society Magazine Vol. XIV MARCH, 1927 No. 3