THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Evon W. Peterson Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman Edith S. Elliott Louise W. Madsen Mildred B. Eyring Winniefred S. Florence J. Madsen Aleine M. Young Helen W. Anderson Manwaring Leone G. Layton Josie B. Bay Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond Blanche B. Stoddard Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Annie M. Ellsworth Mary R. Young RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - - - - - - - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford 

Vol. 43 JULY 1956 No. 7 
Contents 
SPECIAL FEATURES Outings and Family Solidarity 20 0 0coc0ccccccccccccccsecseseeeeeeeseeseeesessesteeeneeseeeererereseee LaVern W,. Parmley 420 The Danish Mission.002..2..2 2 0.----: ccccceeeeeceecececeesceeeceneceneeeseneee —— lePreston R. Nibley 426 GR oa cncnnncaiisn-narenscenncncncecsdsceceecsecacceaccaceeesssecnscecsecnconcsecnnseccsreventanscasscececusuensensscsnssenscecsonasssWillard Luce 432 Annual Report 1955 uo. EceeecceceseeceecesesceeenecceesseesseesecessenenseesceeesceseesseeseeeesteseseeseenereseMargaret C. Pickering 458 FICTION Pretty As a Pansy. Ooin.. EceccecsecceceeccsceececeesceececsseeseeseeneeecsesnnessssnesesnasosssssssseseceeeseeseecesscetaceensereessFrances C. Yost 428 Cathy and the Onions 20 cc cecececeeeceeeeeeee scenes eeFlorence B. Dunford 434 Heart's Bounty — Chapter 2 o ececcecscececesceseesesssenneeeeeeateneeecceeeeneeseuteececenseeaseeseesDeone R. Sutherland 449 GENERAL FEATURES BeOS CT CIC FR rei. Nnn. Nccccnecqenecnseneovescnvesvcencaccarsussecancececocsstcccsnnsnecchenseanesancsenssssessuseseonsdenssuecsessuseosensasenseecseeesers 418 Sixty Years Ago ooi cccccccssecececeesecscecceeeeceseeseneeceeeeseecees SS ee | ee 440 Woman's Sphere ooieeeeceeeseceseeeeee eee e nee ee CO Ramona W. Cannon 441 PHEEOTICH:. FrOmtiers - ------voeccseocensssscacsencsnesnsaseccassessanasesescceensensencsanssacsancenssecenecesesVesta P. Crawford 442 Notes to the Field: Buying Textbooks for Relief Society Lessons 2220 0 22..222ceceeceeeeceeeeeeeneeteneeeee 444 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities.2 0..2..2ececceeeceeeceeee seen Margaret C. Pickering 470 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Lily N. Hortnagl Makes Handicraft Gifts for Many Occasions 22.2.0 00 cccscecececeeseseccececeeceeeeeeneseecesenes 445 Recipes From the Danish Mission -0 2..0..0c. CeccscccesessecscecsnecceeecececececenssseecenescaseessenennseseseceeoesesesMary Kaiser 446 Sew a Sunbornet occ. EeeeccccccsncccsenecesscpencsesnscsectenecescscenseuenscccesessceauccesececesseessnceeeseeeeecceessMarijane Morris 455 SENG wiches 2.2. Ccec eececcceeeccececenececeeeesceessccecsscnessccestecenceccesecteestenscsnceesscegeacsceneeessnsceeenccessceeeseessRhea H. Gardner 456 Herbs for Modern Cookery — Femme] oo 0ccccccceceesceseeceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeteeeeenesElizabeth Williamson 496 LESSON DEPARTMENT Audio Visual Aids for 1956-57 o. Oo cececeeececeeceeeeeeeeeeesa SaMildred B. Eyring 475 Theology: Jesus Instructs the Nephites 20 0..20 02 cceccceceeeeeeene= Leland H. Monson 477 Visiting Teacher Messages — 'Yea, Wo Unto Him That Shall Deny the Revelations GUMTTENG ne casnc---aasssucrccvaveccesac-cccesscecsunqaesnuecescecnceccussseccesse=cesiglipeessstsreccesnessncnsaeeeesLeone O. Jacobs 481 Work Meeting: Lunches and Sandwiches 00 2.2. Ceeceeceeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeteeeeeeee-eeee-- Rhea H. Gardner 482 Literature: Why Shakespeare? 0 cecccccscececce cece cseeneeeceseesesseqeeeneesenececseccnnsscecssecsecenseesBriant S. Jacobs 484 Social Science: Joseph Smith's Early Home Life -0.000.0a. John Farr Larson 490 POETRY Navajo Flute — Frontispiece oo.. EececececccccececeeccescseeceseeneesecesceeecenecareeeeeeeeeceseessneseseesenteaceesHazel Loomis 418 DOMMES ID oe ccetbld tne nennnncevesoeconsvcuasaenereccescnsanseccccencesccascccspuesndensionessntlbcnseoreassnverssEthel Jacobson 425 FAT PMU nnn nena cncccencennncenone sem nscecncecenenecccserearcaeteccseucscesesenacascennsesscesoseserarssantarnessrecssseeneseseLuella N. Adams 431 VCR nnn aa nee nccnsececncsccenncecacnnvenneccedllvancheasiuctblllinensecsuccovanacassesecessererstencabecesevencuaseanaceessGrace B. Wilson 433 Golden Windows 0 ccecccecsssceesescececeseeeeceeneneeeeececeesenesssuecensnsnesaesensenssneeecoesecessorsesessesecseeesDorothy J. Roberts 439 Grandfather's Cello oo. CeccecececceceeccenneeeneenennsneesenecnenncneseeoesneneeceeseseeeceeeessseneteeteseeneesesDora Toone Brough 443 PM acl cates enncnveu-cenusceswusevieeseeanaceeaseeouacva-eseeeseneusapeuee<eoeneeecacecaneseeeuecase-vaesensdiinvescasMabel Jones Gabbott 444 Each Day Is Mine ue a iz. AeMary Hess Hackney 448 In the Quiet Harbor. 0.000000 Pe EEMabel Law Atkinson 454 I I ce oe nn nnencnnavercneonvere-eenncsserstecereereccevenvrecvesauecuenecnaesasescssneenceasenszonsesaneseascacecesIrene E. Jones 495 

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 North Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Outings and Family Solidarity LaVern W. Parmley President, The Primary Association RECENTLY at a stake conference, one of the leaders said to Brother Oscar A. Kirkham, "After the morning meeting I wish you would take the opportunity to walk home with my son. He is not going to his Sabbath School, and I wish you would have a chat with him." Brother Kirkham, after the meeting, took the chap by the arm, and they started down the street towards home. He thought a very good approach would be to say: "You know, you have a great father. He is a fine man." 'The boy immediately turned and said, "Brother Kirkham, I wish you would talk to my father for me. In all my life he has never been with me to a movie. He has never taken me with him anywhere. I haven't even had a game of checkers with him. I would appreciate it." There are many adults who seem to have attained the dignified state of parenthood without having first passed through the undignified state of childhood. Childhood memories dim with the passing of years, until, finally, all that are left are those of the somewhat idealistic side. Through doing things together, parents learn to understand their child's point of view, and to deal more sympathetically with his natural urges and desires. What all parents really need is a bridge between themselves and their children Page 420 to shorten the gap and bring about family solidarity. Business men, educators, and _ religious leaders agree that the early home experiences of a child are important factors in his life. The question has been asked — "Can a child fail in his life's work because parents have provided him with poor home training and environment?" Executives and personnel experts of leading American corporations declare a unanimous "yes." United States industry says this to parents: "We wouldn't want your son or daughter, if you have failed to train him for successful adulthood." Most industrial leaders believe members of a family should pull together to develop their standards of living. According to Lawrence A. Appley, President of the American Management Association, Inc., "There seems to be a direct significant relationship between early home environment and on-the-job SUCCESS." ARENTS ought to build into the minds of their children confidence in their own ability. One business manager, when asked how this could be done, said, "Encourage your child to try a variety of skills, take him hunting and _ fishing; teach him the use of power tools; teach him civic mindedness, OUTINGS AND FAMILY SOLIDARITY 421 THE FAMILY HOUR FEATURES A PICNIC AT HOME Members of the Francis A. Madsen family: Seated at the table, left to right: Mary Louise Rawlings (daughter); David Rawlings (grandson); Ben E. Rawlings (son-in-law); Francis A. Madsen (father); Francis A. Madsen, Jr. (son); Susan Madsen (granddaughter); Connie Madsen (daughter-in-law). Standing in the background, left to right: Louise W. Madsen (mother, member of the general board of Relief Society); Richard Madsen (son). Children, seated at the table, in front, left: Scott Rawlings (grandson); Peter William Madsen (son); Michelle Madsen (granddaughter). Community loyalty, church loyalty and build his moral fiber." In an article "Your Children Need Family Recreation,' written by Dr. Rex A. Skidmore of the University of Utah, and published in the November 1955 issue of the Children's Friend, we read: It has been said that "the family that prays together stays together." Some experts have added to this that the family that "plays together grows together." Case studies show that both of these activities have great possibilities sound family relationships. Some values of the family playing together are particularly important. First, the family usually gets better acquainted with each other. 'Too many families live at home in name only and are away from each other most of the time. Family recreation can be "loads of fun." Playing with those who are near and dear to one is enjoyable in many respects. Participating in recreational activities establishes a deeper bond, and opens the doors of communication among family members, in developing 422 A picnic seems to be one type of outing suitable for families. Young and old enjoy taking a lunch to a park, canyon, seaside, or other appropriate place where there is an abundance of fresh air and things to do, where the children can romp and expend some of the energies which build up within them. Parents who nag their children at home usually find it easy to let them run, yell, and sing to their "'heart's content" in a picnic area. Parents who do not take their whole family on a picnic at least several times during a year are missing a golden opportunity for having fun and _ strengthening family bonds. Elder Ezra Taft Benson, at a general conference, said: Our homes need the stabilizing influence of a closer relationship between parents and children. Every boy and girl needs the safeguard which an intimate association with mother or father will provide. 'This relationship must be built upon love and mutual confidence. Such an atmosphere can be created as parents plan for recreation and diversion together with their children. An evening spent in wholesome activity; a picnic in the mountains or nearby park; or a project for fathers and sons and mothers and daughters — these will all tend to increase filial affection and love in the home, and strengthen parent-children relations. Time thus spent yields big dividends. Parents in this close association have no difficulty teaching virtue, honesty and industry, the basic principles of our American way of life. There can be no genuine happiness separate and apart from the home. More recreation and more devotion in the home will result in greater family solidarity. Solidarity, as defined in the dictionary, means: "An entire union of interests and responsibilities in a group; community of interests, standards, etc." Children, themselves, feel the necessity of family solidarity, of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 sharing, working, and playing together in a family group. The question, "What do you think makes a happy family?" was asked of more than 1500 school children. Every grade from the second grade to the last year in high school was represented in this study conducted by the New Rochelle Guidance Center. The following are some of the answers given: A thirteen year old boy summed up his answer in these words, "A happy family reminds me of a baseball team, with Mom pitching, Dad catching and the kids fielding with everyone taking a turn at bat." The seven and eight-year-olds focused their answers on the concrete satisfactions of family life: a picnic in the park, the "surprise" daddy brings home, holiday celebrations, the family pet. One said, "Our family is happy because we help each other a lot." The nine-year-olds put their emphasis on relationships in family life: 'They frequently mentioned family parties and outings, playing games with the family, talking about pleasant things at meals. 'To them happiness meant togetherness. The ten - year - olds generally reached this conclusion: Do your chores, have fun, and go places together. The eleven and twelve-year-olds continued to underline the ideas of the younger children but did so more maturely. The happy family is the united family. 'The most important thing in a happy family is being together a lot. OUTINGS AND FAMILY SOLIDARITY Family solidarity was what each group wanted. 'These young people, so varied in age and_background, agreed with startling unanimity that being together in the family and doing things with all of its members is the very essence of happiness. ESTABLISHING play habits of the right sort is perhaps one of the most important things in character development. 'The president of a stake once said, "Oh, if my father had only let me _ play when I was a boy. If I wanted to _ play ball or go on a hike, he would say, If you've got more energy than you need, there's the hoe and there's the cornfield.' His attitude towards play activities was that they were a waste of time. Now I feel myself all cramped and bound into a limited space of action. I can't reach out easily for social contacts." There is a great vacancy in that man's life. In the book Recreation in the Home, we read: It is generally recognized as true that right living is not transmitted by merely telling children to be honest and brave and true. Rather it is developed in the individual as a phase of other activities and through the example of parents and children working, playing, and carrying on social life together. Perhaps there is not the same degree of pleasure to the boy who blisters his hands on a hoe handle or exhausts himself in running a mile to chase the cows out of the lucerne patch, that there is when he blisters his hands on a baseball bat and exhausts himself in making a home run. But there can be pleasure in both if the proper attitude is fixed for both. In any program of family activity 423 there must be socialized co-operation. The tasks allotted should take into consideration the age and abilities of the children. 'They should give opportunity for individual success and excellence of performance. Individual initiative should not be crushed and the child should be given due credit and praise when the task is completed. Boy Scouts in the family may be given the joy of building the fire, and even cooking the meal for a family outing. The girls may plan and prepare a picnic supper for the back yard. They can set the table and arrange flowers for the centerpiece. If the outing is held in the canyon or park, the younger set can be given the "clean-up" assignment. Scouts, again, can use their "know-how" in seeing that the fire is completely out. Fortunate is the family that works and plays together. A family will be surprised at the enjoyable time that is to be had by spending a vacation at home. Many families fail to explore their own communities and the facilities available for recreation. 'They never visit places of interest that tourists travel miles to see. 'They do not realize that parks and museums are established for their interest and pleasure. 'There is a world of enjoyment and education to be had in such places. Backyard camping and cooking can be most exciting. A trip to the zoo affords a lot of fun. A bicycle or hiking trip can be exhilarating. Family picnics in the park, or neatby canyons can be real family outings. 'Tours of dairies, printing presses, and other industries can be revealing and educational in value, 424 HE great cry of parents is, "We don't have time." There is just so much time in the world. No one has more time than someone else. 'The difference is, some use it wisely, others waste it. Parents should take time to lay up a store of good family relationships. Such accomplishments will last for a lifetime. Time cannot take them away. In a recent issue of a weekly periodical a mother summarized her thoughts about time: My biggest mistake as a mother was a mistaken perspective of time. While our children were growing up, I was under the impression that the major part of my life was being lived while I had them with me. Looking back, I well understand what my beloved grandfather meant when he used to speak of "those few weeks we had the children with us." It is such a short, short time. I don't mean it seems brief; it is brief! For a birthday present a father once gave his son a piece of paper with the following written on it: "To my dear Son: I give you one hour of my time each day, to be yours, and to be used as you want to, without interference of any kind whatsoever. Your Father." Realizing that this father could make a very costly gift to his son, a friend asked, "How did you happen to hit upon the idea of giving such an extraordinary present?" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 The man answered, "The other day a young fellow, whom I had not seen since he was a lad about my boy's age, came to my office to 'make a touch.' His face and bearing carried the tell-tale marks of idleness and dissipation. 'Robert!' I exclaimed in amazement, 'to see you like this — and you with such a fine father!' "The boy answered, "Well, I've often heard Dad was a fine man. All his friends have told me so. I never knew him. He was so much occupied with his business, that I only saw him occasionally at mealtimes. I never really knew him,' "That made me think, and think furiously, and believe me, from now on I am going to see to it that my son has a chance to know me. This is the greatest gift a man can give, yet a gift every father owes to his son." Parents must realize how much of the mature years of their children will be spent in seeing the things memory preserves for them. 'They must guard the space in a child's memory storehouse, so they will have stored up a mighty collection of mental movies which will depict happy family associations. In Elder Mark E. Petersen's book, For Time or Eternity, he says, "It is our faith that the family is a basic unit in heaven. We should be saved as families." Family outings are some of the best tools to use in building family solidarity. Family solidarity built upon this earth will continue throughout eternity. Don Knight SWIFTCURRENT LAKE, GLACIER NATIONAL PARK MONTANA Nountain Vigil Ethel Jacobson The last light pales on the loftiest rim Long after the valleys are veiled and dim, Then heaven bends in a starry arc Spreading a mantle of tranquil dark. The wind lies hushed in the silvery firs, On soundless wings the great owl stirs As, in infinity's embrace, Poised constellations wheel in space. The spheres tread out their measured dance The stars give way. 'The sun's swift lance Touches the topmost peak anew At a moment preordained, on cue, Set long before the tremulous light Of dawn first quickened primordial night. Faith needs no sign for all reborning Beyond this miracle of morning. Page 425 The Danish Mission Preston R. Nibley T the October Conference of the Church, held in Salt Lake City in 1849, Erastus Snow, thirty-one years of age, a member of the Council of the 'T'welve, was selected to open a mission for the Church "in the Scandinavian Countries." Elders Peter O. Hansen and John E. Forsgren were called to accompany him. Elder Hansen was a native of Denmark and had begun to translate The Book of Mormon into the Danish language before leaving America. When these brethren reached England, in April 1850, Elder Snow requested George P. Dykes, an elder laboring in that country, to join them, as he had some knowledge of the Norwegian language; the missionaries then continued their journey and arrived in Copenhagen, Denmark, on June 14, 1850. In delivering their message to the Danish people, they met with almost immediate success and, on August 12, 1850, less than two months after their arrival, Erastus Snow baptized fifteen converts "in the clear salt water of the Sound." A branch of the Church was organized in CopenBy Ewing Galloway, New York - NEW KING'S MARKET, COPENHAGEN, DENMARK Page 426 THE DANISH MISSION 427 Lind Studios Submitted by Mary G. Sorensen GEELS FOREST IN HOLTE, NEAR COPENHAGEN, DENMARK hagen on September 15, following. Other elders arrived in the mission and the work of proselyting was gradually extended to all parts of Denmark. Andrew Jenson, Assistant Church Historian and a native of Denmark, computed in 1930 that 26,656 of his countrymen had joined the Church since the introduction of the gospel in 1850, eighty years previously. During that time, also, he stated, 13,984 of these baptized had "emlgrated to Zion." Denmark remained a part of the Scandinavian Mission until 1920, when a separate mission was formed with Elder Carl E.. Petersen as the first president. In March 1956, there were 1,875 members in the Danish Mission, located in sixteen branches. Holger P. Peterson is the present president of the Danish Mission. Seventeen Relief Society organizations were reported in December 1955, with 359 members. Ora Irene H. Peterson presides over the Danish Mission Relief Society. > Note: The cover for this Magazine is a View of Ribe, Denmark, From the Domkirke. See also "Recipes From the Danish Mission," page 446. Pretty As a Pansy Frances C. Yost ANDA looked nervously at \\y the clock ticking away the minutes. "Here it is after one. If Vince doesn't come right away to eat, I'll miss Relief Society today." She gently moved the lace curtain at the window and peered down the street, hoping to see the familiar green pickup truck turn the corner. Since Vince had _ started in his own lumber business, it was hard for him to keep regular hours. Wanda didn't want to miss the meeting. She received so much joy and satisfaction and down-toearth education from Relief Society. She enjoyed working in the other organizations, too; but Relief Society was different. It was her meeting. A meeting where she could develop in a_ well-rounded way, as well as serving others. As Wanda watched at the window, the truck slowed up to the curb and Vince, almost running, came to the house. She hurried to the door to greet him. You couldn't be cross with someone who was late when he was working his heart out for you. She swung the door wide for him, and gave him her prettiest smile. "Welcome home, stranger." "Sorry I'm late, honey. Had a customer. Couldn't make it a minute sooner. But [ll eat and run so you can make it to your meeting." Vincent brushed her cheek with a swift kiss as he hurried to wash up. "That's okeh," Wanda replied. She had sort of given up the idea of getting to Relief Society, © but in no time at all Vince was Page 428 grabbing his hat, brushing her cheek with a quick goodbye kiss, and gone. Wanda glanced at the clock, a quarter to two. She almost never left the dishes in the sink, but if she did today she could still make it to Relief Society. Untying her apron, and powdering her nose, Wanda whisked on her tweed sports coat and shut the door gently, leaving it unlatched for her girls when they would come from school. As she left her home, she glanced at the home of Granny Crockett who lived next door. Usually they walked to Relief Society meeting together, but Granny Crockett had probably seen Vince's truck, and gone ahead. But we can walk home together, Wanda thought. It was the literature lesson today, given well by Sister Bates. Imagine writing nine hundred poems and fourteen novels as Thomas Hardy did, the ladies sighed! Only too soon, the meeting was over, and the sisters exchanged greetings and well wishes. Wanda Mason and Granny Crockett slowly walked the short distance to their homes together. "You can tell from his poems Thomas Hardy was a man of the soil,' Granny remarked. "Such a_ well-rounded person, Thomas Hardy was. Imagine, even as a boy, he went around to parties and weddings playing his violin," Wanda reminisced. Then she fell to thinking how Relief Society tipped the scales of PRETTY AS A PANSY values in her life, helping her to shape her outlook and define her goals. She was so engrossed in thoughts of the lesson that she did not remember the dishes in the sink, until she stepped on the porch. Marie and Connie would probably be doing up the dishes right this minute to surprise her. Wanda prepared herself to act really surprised, and lavish them with her praise. But, as she opened the door, the odor of burning meat surrounded her. The girls must be cooking hamburgers. No, it was the expensive ground round steak with which she had planned to make a special new dish. Anger made Wanda rigid at the sight of the very small amount of ground round steak which was left. ER lovely kitchen was a chaos of confusion! <A_ greasy griddle, burned almost black, was on the cupboard, and the lovely copperbottom skillet was filled with hamburgers and onions. Wanda glanced through the rooms to see the girls' school clothes draped on the beds, the living room strewn' with crumbs, while the television blasted away at high volume. 'The house Wanda had spent all morning cleaning was in utter disorder. Suddenly Wanda was scolding as rain pours down in cascades. Connie and Marie stood by with startled consternation on their faces. Wanda, realizing she had been too hasty, went to her room and shut the door quickly behind her. Shame at her outburst and discouragement seemed to engulf her. She was disappointed, too. Would the girls never learn? Would they never start to take hold, to keep the house 429 in shape, to think before using up household stores? Wanda - said nothing when the children took choice things like nuts, cherries, and olives, but now when they were using the dinner meat for afterschool snacks, that was the last straw. "All morning I've worked in the house and for what?" she asked herself aloud. "I would have been ahead if I had forgotten the house entirely and planted the pansies that are waiting." Wanda put on her gardening things, tied a scarf on her hair, and walked through the house, looking neither to the right nor to the left. On the porch she picked up the pansy plants she had purchased yesterday at the greenhouse and, with the planter fork, left the house, slamming the door almost childishly behind her. As Wanda's hands worked in the rich black soil, she thought again of the poet Thomas Hardy, and the common rural people of whom he wrote. Gradually her mind seemed to grope its way from a soundless sort of fog. RANNY Crockett, next door, sat crocheting on her warm sun porch. She had sat down to rest after the walk from Relief Society. As her hands moved, her mind dwelt on the lesson at Relief Society. She recalled a line from one of 'Thomas Hardy's poems: "This is the weather the cuckoo likes, and so do I." Suddenly from next door she heard Wanda's voice raised in scolding. "Why land sakes, pretty Wanda Mason went into that house not more than five minutes ago. Won- 430 der what mischief she found her girls into?" Granny said softly. 'Harsh words are molded on children's memories forever." Her mind went back to a day, when, as a little child, her mother in heated wrath had called her a lozy dolt. Granny's head, with its hair pinned neatly into a round flat knot at the crown of her neck, shook as if to erase the memory. It was only when she looked up from her crocheting that she noticed Wanda Mason in her garden, setting out pansy plants. Granny laid down her crochet work and, out of the corner of her eye, saw Wanda Mason wipe her eyes with the sleeve of her shirt, as she knelt in the flower bed. Suddenly Granny Crockett remembered the water cress a neighbor had brought her from his last fishing trip. Wrapping a generous portion of the cress in wax paper and going out the back door, she meandered over to where Wanda Mason was setting out her pansies. It wasn't until Granny Crockett was right to Wanda that she noticed the tears falling from her eyes, moistening the soil where she was working. Words seemed inadequate. Instead, Granny Crockett placed her hand gently on Wanda's shoulder. Wanda looked up startled, but, at sight of Granny Crockett, the flood locks broke, and a new flow of tears rushed forth. "There, there, child,' Granny Crockett comforted. "I suppose you heard me raise my voice to the children. I'm so dreadfully ashamed. But, oh, Granny, | a so hard to make a real home. A clean home, and I skimp and go without to plan and prepare nice RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 meals, and the children."" Wanda told Granny everything, how she had found the house, and about the dinner meat used for after-school hamburgers. "Tt is discouraging," Granny Crockett admitted.. "And yet I'd give a lot, if my children were close enough to raid my pantry. I've lived to see three generations, and they all do it sometime or another, and they all seem to come through that growing hungry stage like a blueribbon heifer. I brought you over some water cress." "Why, how nice. You know how we love it in the spring. Thanks so much," Wanda said. "You have chosen a nice assortment of pansy plants," Granny Crockett said, looking at the plants Wanda was planting. ANDA was pleased. Granny Crockett had a "green thumb," and Wanda appreciated any floral compliment Granny gave her. "I do hope they grow." "They'll grow," Granny Crockett nodded knowingly, "just like those two lovely girls of yours are growing.", Wanda, who had placed the last plant in its little moistened crevice and anchored it firmly with black rich soil, shifted herself from her knees to her feet and stood surveying the plants. "Those blooms should be picked, to strengthen the roots. I'll let the girls do that for the table decoration for our supper table." Wanda realized that in her planting, she had also planted every bit of her wrath. "I want you to come and see my pansy bed now, Sister Wanda. Pansies are such choice little flowers. PRETTY AS A PANSY Why, they're almost human when you look straight in their faces. Come." She took Wanda's arm firmly. Together, they walked through the arbor that divided the Mason and the Crockett lawns, and which would be covered with climbing roses in June. "See those tiny pansies peeping through?" Granny Crockett asked. "Once I spaded up a bed because I saw a weed or two. But in doing it, I uprooted the tiny pansies just pushing through. Life's like that. Sometimes we uproot our homes and children to get mid of a weed or two of wrong, that would wither later, on their own. What children really need more than spading, is warm, loving sunshine... The sunshine of a mother's loving smile. A smile that is as dependable as the sun's rays." Wanda realized, with a pang of consternation, that her children had seen her face torn with anger. No wonder they had looked so startled. She secretly vowed to try to keep it from happening again. Lilac dusk was creeping upon them, but Wanda's mind had already taken up its routine. She could make spaghetti and meat balls for supper. The family enjoyed the dishes they were used to more than something new and fancy, anyway. 43] And the water cress gift from Granny Crockett would make a_ lovely cress and hard-boiled egg salad, which would be a treat for Vince and the girls on a spring evening. And she would pull out a cherry pie from the deep freeze, as a sort of celebration of her burying the hatchet, so to speak. "T must hurry," Wanda said. Her face smiled like the big white pansies which Granny Crockett knew would later bloom in her garden. "And thanks... Thanks for everything!"" Wanda added. When she walked into her home, it seemed her own little world had righted itself. 'The school clothes were put away, the coats hung neatly in the hall, and Marie and Connie were doing the dishes. "We were going to surprise you," they chorused when caught in the act. "What a happy surprise!'"" Wanda smiled a pretty violet-eyed pansy smile Granny Crockett walked through the garden and over the smooth green lawn which sloped to the lily pond. <A _ bluebird came flashing out of nowhere, and stopped short on seeing her so closely, then flitted away among the peonies beside the garden fence. Granny smiled, all was calm and smooth again. 'The pansy faces all were smiling faces. Her Hands Luella N. Adams Not shapely white, those precious hands— Deep lined, with labor etched, They helped to build an empire, Those hands that rested not. Kind hands that eased our childish pain We know that we will clasp again. Old Sucson Willard Luce LD Tucson isn't nearly as old as it sounds—or looks. Its crumbling adobe walls seem to have weathered centuries of desert wind and rain. Its warped lumber seems to have been burned brown by the desert sun and sucked dry of all moisture. Its hitchracks appear to have tethered a thousand horses. But all this is make-believe. Old Tucson was born in 1940, created by Hollywood for the movie "Arizona." Built in the Tucson Mountains a few miles west of Tucson, Arizona, the set was constructed to represent the old Spanish settlement of Tucson during our Civil War days. When the film was finished, the movie company moved out and the Junior Chamber of Commerce moved in. 'They kept the set repaired as a show place for tourists and as a location for their annual 'Tucson Daze celebration held each autumn. Since 'Tucson ls a square dancing center with a dozen or more clubs meeting regularly, the J. C.'s inaugurated square dancing at Old Tucson. 'These weekly get-togethers are well attended by visitors and natives alike. Since 1940, the movie companies have moved back to Old Tucson on several occasions. In 1954 they came back for the Cinemascope production of Greer Garson's "Strange Lady in Town." They completely remodeled Old Tucson. They covered some of the adobe Page 432 walls with boards. They added second stories to some of the buildings. 'They built hotels, livery stables, saloons, and a dozen other establishments until you just wouldn't know the old town. And that is quite as it should be since the setting for this new, full-color film was Santa Fe, New Mexico, 7 9) just before the "Gay go's. Most of these buildings are complete — not just walls and false fronts. They are colorful, authentic, and a tourist attracter of the first magnitude. 'Today, however, Wards Saloon dispenses soft drinks, postcards, and other tourist subplies. 'There are other business houses which open and do a landoffice business during "Tucson Daze" and the height of the tourist season. It is said that the set will soon be reconverted back to the original "Old Tucson." Set on a valley floor in the Tucson Mountain Park, the make-believe town is surrounded by giant saguaro cactus. On the east and south the rugged mountain peaks hover over it. There are picnicking areas in the Tucson Mountain Park, and there is the Trailside Museum. 'This museum features live exhibits of the fauna and flora of the ArizonaSonora desert. 'The larger animals include the peccary — or wild hog — mountain lion, wildcat, ocelot, etc. The small animal room in- OLD TUCSON Willard Luce MOVIE SET OF "OLD TUCSON," TUCSON MOUNTAIN PARK ARIZONA cludes live species of centipedes, scorpions, lizards, rodents, and snakes. 'Trails lead through the botanical gardens where the plants are well labeled. Desert water holes have been so placed as to give the visitor an opportunity to study the desert wild life at first hand. So, even if Old Tucson isn't as old as it sounds, it's an interesting place to visit, especially if you take in the rest of Tucson Mountain Park. -—fa—— Wega Grace Barker Wilson The shades are drawn, the doors are closed, And all about an empty look Proclaims a solitary house That somebody forsook. Around the yard the grass grows tall, And weeds crowd every flower bed; The stray dogs in the neighborhood Hold counsel there, instead. At night the darkened windows have A ghastly, special glare, and some, Both animals and flowers, wish The owners would come home, Cathy and the Onions Florence Berrett Dunford door to their cousin 'Theodore's, less than a third of a country block apart, Cathy Bennett was so weary she thought she could not make it. Theodore's mother had nine boys. Naturally it was almost impossible to keep a hired girl. 'The morning before when Uncle Stanley had appealed to her father, Cathy had offered to help out. For eight hours on Thursday and until noon on Fniday, she had stood at the ironing board and ironed nothing but shirts. I never want to see another boy's shirt, she thought, as she opened the screen door. She stopped short. Her father and mother were in the long narrow kitchen with its blue and white linoleum and _ polished range, talking in low tones. "[m_ sorry," her mother said, brushing at a wing of dark hair, "I'd like to go to the party. But I just can't. I haven't a thing to wear except one of those old Mother-Hubbards. I'm tired of those." "I know you are." Cathy's father's' voice was tender. "But still you've got to go. You haven't been out SINCE.. SiGe.. Since the baby died, Cathy supplied in her own mind. Her mother loved babies. She supposed there was nothing worse to her than losing a baby. She's got to go! Cathy thought. Mother's got to go to Aunt Mae's party tomorrow night. | "It's taking a little time to get Page 434 T HOUGH home was just next on my feet after the flood," Cathy's father said, apologetically. Until the summer before they'd lived on a ranch. But the Dry. Bed had overflowed its banks. Now they were back in Menan again, but the job at the flour mill didn't pay enough for new dresses. Even Cathy could see that. Cathy backed down the steps. There was a hopelessness in her parents' voices, that meant defeat. Only Cathy wouldn't admit failure. Her sister, Jinny, who was eight, came up at that moment. "Mother can't go to Aunt Mae's party because she hasn't anything to wear,' Cathy told Jinny there in the sun-baked dooryard. "Tho what?" Jinny lisped. "Tho... We have to do something." "Didn't Uncle Stanley pay youoh anything for awning?" Jinny asked. It was warm, the first of June. 'The Idaho sun turned Jinny's hair to flame. "Of course not," Cathy said. "That was a favor." "Well, whyn't you ask 'Thindoo?" Thindoo was the best Jinny could do with Theodore. "T will! I will!" Cathy cried, her eyes brightening. "Come on." She grasped Jinny's hand. Forgetting her weariness, she hurried along the path toward Theodore's again. HEODORE and Homer were just climbing onto Theodore's pony. "We've got to hurry," Theodore said, "Father's expecting CATHY AND THE ONIONS us at the ranch to thin beets." Theodore had fair hair and blue eyes and a kind manner. '"Mothah can't go to the party tomorrow night," Jinny lisped. "We've got to duoh something to get her a new dress." "We thought perhaps you might tell us where we could get a job," Cathy said. "Job?" 'Theodore scratched his head. "Too bad thinning beets is a man's job." He took time out to think a minute. "If we could get work that paid," Cathy said, "we could ask Miz Rawson at the store to help us select a dress for Mother and charge it." "It's too bad Mother's hired girl just showed up. I wish I could help you," Theodore said again. "Wait a minute. This morning at the postoffice I heard Tom Smith say he wanted someone to weed his onions. He has a big patch, you know; lives about a mile west of town on the way to our ranch." "That big thkin-flint?" Jinny asked. Theodore grinned. "I guess he is a bit close. He's a bachelor." "Maybe he'd think weeding onions was a boy's job, too,' Cathy said. "Maybe so," Theodore said. "But he said this morning he'd take girls. Aren't any boys who'd work for the wages he pays.' "You think Jinny and I might get jobs?" Cathy asked. "You could cottainily try. Though I have my doubts about Jinny." a; eee x <¢T'M twelve," Cathy said over the phone a few minttes later. Luckily her mother was taking her 435 fifteen-minute rest. "Jinny's a bit younger than I," she added. "That's all right," Mr. Boomed. Leaving a note for their mother, Cathy and Jinny hurried out the white picket front gate and toward town. Miz Rawson was very nice about the dress. "You're sure you have the job?" she asked. She was as old as Cathy's mother, but she had never found the right man. Her silvery-reddish hair was thin and frizzy. "Not that it matters," she said. "Your father's credit is always Smith good." "Oh, but this isn't Father," Cathy insisted. "Mr. Smith said Jinny and I were to report at eight in the morning." They found a pretty dress. "The color of your mother's eyes," Miz Rawson said. "Mother's eyes are gray," Jinny said. "Blue," Cathy said. "A gray-blue," Miz Rawson compromised. "I know she'll like this dress. And of course I know her size. Your mother and I went to school together." "Mother says you were the payest girl in the class," Cathy said. "But she was the prettiest, Rawson said, sighing. It was the middle of the afternoon when Cathy and Jinny returned home, the new dress in its wrapping of paper, carried carefully under Cathy's arm. But she wanted her father there, too, when she showed it. Urging Jinny to keep their secret, she tiptoed through the dim front room to the big bedroom she shared with her sisters " Miz 436 and slid the package up on a closet sivelE. Gem: "Mother was real touched; she had tears in her eyes," Jinny told Cathy happily the next morning as they went down the shaded sidewalk in the direction of 'Tom Smith's. "She thought the dress was lovely," Cathy said. 'Father didn't like it because we'd charged it." "But he couldn't say anything with Mothah so happy," Jinny exulted. "T don't care how hot it is, or how hard 'Tom Smith makes us work," Cathy said. "I'm so happy Mother has her dress." OW do we weed onions?" Jinny asked, as they neared the big white frame house. "With a hoe?" "Maybe he'll make us get down on our knees," Cathy said. "You should have borrowed Thindoo's overalls." "IT never wear levis; you know that,' Cathy said a bit sharply. "We'll donth blame me if you get callouses on your knees," Jinny said. Mr. Smith answered Cathy's knock at the rear. He seemed very glad to see her, though not Jinny. "She wouldn't know a weed from an onion," he said. Mr. Smith's face was round. He was quite round all over, Cathy noticed. "I work alth time at home," ny protested. "I'm eight." "She doesn't look eight,' Mr. Smith said. "I suppose you won't weed without her?" "Oh, yes, I will!' Cathy said hurriedly. She was very disapJinRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 pointed. How long would it take her to earn the dress? "Forty-seven cents a row," Mr. Smith said, squinting down one of the rows that to Cathy looked a whole block long. "And no hoes. You sure you can tell weeds from onions?" "Cathy hath an awful nose; she can smell everything," Jinny said, snickering. "She means I'm aller... Sensitive to some things," Cathy said. "Sometimes I get hives." "Huh." Mr. Smith was not interested. "I suppose you brought your lunch?" When they picked raspberries for the Wendell's, they were always given their lunch. But after Theodore's warning, Cathy had not expected it of Mr. Smith. "We sure did," Jinny lisped. When Mr. Smith's broad back disappeared inside the cool depths of his house again, she said, "I'm just goin' to stay awhile and watch." CATHY got down on her knees. Lucky she had worn a big straw cil Her old cotton stockings came up well above her knees. "These weeds are sure thick," she called out to Jinny a few moments later. There were furrows between the rows. She crawled along in one, pulled the small weeds from _between the onions, dropped them in the furrow. "Water will carry them away," Mr. Smith had said. "T wishth..." Jinny began, from her shady spot on the ditchbank. Cathy's sneeze cut short her remarks. "Oww," Cathy said, and rubbed the forefinger of her right hand across her nose. And sneezed three times, heavily. CATHY AND THE ONIONS "What's the mattah?" Jinny called out. Cathy straightened up on_ her knees. "I don't know. I feel funny. Ker choo! Oh, my arm's itching!" She scraped at her left arm. "Now it's my forehead," she cried. "Oh, dear! Can you smell the onions?" "Of courth not," Jinny said. "Whatth mattah with you anyway? Your face looks all splotchy." Cathy swallowed. 'I'wo big tears ran down her stinging cheeks. "I feel sick. I'm getting hives,' she wailed. "These awful old onions are giving me hives!" "Til go tell Mr. Smith," Jinny said, getting to her feet. "You will not! [Pl be all right." She started to pull weeds faster than ever, casting them furiously into the small furrow. Already _ her knees were burning. Could the welts be breaking out all over? "T can't stop; I can't," she muttered to herself. "I've already charged the dress. Mother has got it. [I've got to weed the onions... To get the money... To pay for Mother's "Oh, Jinny," she wailed, sitting down flat in the furrow, "I can't see! My eyes are swelling shut! I can't tell a weed from an onion!" She began rubbing the back of her hand across her eyes, sniffling. "I can't see!" she called wildly. "What's this about not seeing?" It was Mr. Smith's voice, and Cathy thought dimly he must have ears in the back of his head. Or else he was watching from a window. "Cathy's got hives; she can't thee," Jinny said. Jinny always 437 spoke out, making bad matters worse, Cathy thought desperately. "Tll be all right,' Cathy gasped. "They'll go away." To herself, she said frantically, They've got to. Her mother wouldn't keep the dress if she lost the job. When her father got home from the mill tonight, there'd be only gloom in the house. Cathy got up on her knees again, plucked at what she thought was a weed. "Stop it! Stop it!" Mr. Smith yelled. "That's an onion!' He leaned over and, grasping Cathy by the shoulder, lifted her to her feet. "Now then, let's look at you." From his silence Cathy felt she must look shocking. "Come in the house no, sit down on the ditchbank in the shade." Even Mr. Smith's tight-fisted nature, his concern for his onions, seemed taking second place. "TI be all right,' Cathy gasped. "TIL be all night!" "Well, you won't be around onions, that's for sure," Mr. Smith said. "You," he went on, glancing at Jinny, "take your sister's arm and lead her home." As Jinny hurried forward, he muttered distractedly, "T've got to get somebody to weed those onions." As Cathy and Jinny made their way alongside the house toward the front gate, Cathy could hear his voice on the telephone. "NOWTH what?" Jinny said, as they stood outside the gate. "IT don't know," Cathy - said. "Let's just stand here a minute. | feel better already. I believe I can see a little." 438 "Buth you can't weed onions," Jinny said. "No. And we can't go home, either!" Despair poured through Cathy. "Why canth the dress — stay charged?" Jinny reasoned. "Miz Rawson said Fawthah's credit was good." "It won't be if we do things like this!" Cathy cried. "Besides, Mother won't let us keep it. By the time Father gets home it'll be sent back. And he won't really want to keep it either. 'Theodore " In any trouble, Cathy's mind went to her cousin. "Thindoo, Thindoo!" Jinny began to dance around with joy. "He'll help us." "He will not,' Cathy "How can he? He and Homer are thinning beets. And _ their: beets are almost as important to them as Mr. Smith's onions are to him." "Wellth, anyway," Jinny pleaded, "leth just go on down to the ranch. Ith only a mile; no farther than home." Without hope, Cathy let herself be persuaded. 'There was no way out of her trouble this time, she felt sure. Going to Theodore's would only prolong her ordeal. And her respect and love for her father demanded she be back home. In time to return the dress before the store closed for the night. Walking along the dusty road, hurrying toward each patch of shade, feeling the coolness of the water in the ditch beside the road, hearing its rush and music and thythm, did something for Cathy's hives. By the time they turned in at the wide pole gate at 'Theodore's ranch, most of the swelling seemed scolded. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 to have gone away. "I can even see," she told Jinny. | O the north now lay the green expanse of the beet field. 'Two small blobs, one shorter and rounder over to the right, told Cathy where to go. Somehow the task ahead of her would seem easier if Theodore knew. While Cathy told 'Theodore against Jinny's interruptions—Theodore went on thinning beets, watching Homer out of one eye, who kept striking out with his short hoe in all directions. "T might have known," he said, his voice warm with sympathy. "T've noticed you never eat onions." "T really didn't know myself I didn't like them," Cathy said. "You're sure your mother won't keep the dress?" 'Theodore asked. "Tm sure." Cathy's brown eyes met his blue ones. 'Sometimes it's better to just do a thing go home and take the dress back, I mean," Theodore said. It was his way of saying that this time he couldn't help. I shouldn't have come, Cathy thought. It was bad enough that she'd got herself into this trouble. Now she had Theodore worried too. She was just turning away, when she saw Uncle Stanley coming toward them. "Anything wrong?" he asked. Uncle Stanley was kind, but he was also practical. He had so much work to do, he couldn't let his heart overrule his head the way 'Theodore sometimes seemed to do. 'We justh came to see Thindoo," Jinny said. "Cathy charged a dress so Aunt Sue could go to Mother's party to- CATHY AND THE ONIONS night," Theodore told his father, "on the strength of weeding onions for Tom Smith. But Mr. Smith wouldn't let Jinny in the patch, and the onions gave Cathy hives. Her eyes swelled up so she couldn't see." He smiled a little at Cathy. "Well, you might thin beets, though the job is for men," Uncle Stanley said. "But I'm short of cash, too. 'Theodore and Homer won't get paid until the beets are hauled this fall." "I guess there's just nothing we can do," Cathy said, fighting to keep her voice steady. "Mother just can't go to the party." "T didn't think you'd let girls thin beets," 'Theodore told his father. "Under ordinary circumstances I wouldn't," Uncle Stanley said. "I wonder," Theodore said, "if we could make a trade for a few days. I could go over to Mr. Smith's and weed his onions, take the money he gives me and pay for Aunt Sue's dress. Cathy and Jinny could stay here and thin beets." Cathy saw Uncle Stanley's eyes 439 go over the broad field of beets. Theodore, she knew, was his mainstay. Homer and Jinny and she would be poor substitutes. "T'm sorry," he said. Already he was ina hurry. "I just." Suddenly he seemed really to see Cathy. "Why, this is Cathy!" he said. And then he grinned—like Theodore—and said, "We _ surely appreciated you ironing all those shirts!" "Oh, that was all right," Cathy said. She closed her right hand, feeling the blisters which, by now, were turning to callouses. "I was glad to help." Uncle Stanley seemed to be undergoing a change of heart. "Since it's Cathy who is asking, I think we should do our best. How long," he asked 'Theodore, "do you suppose it'll take you over at Smith's?" Theodore was smiling now, too. Homer and Jinny were jumping up and. Down, their arms about each other. For the first moment since yesterday noon when she schemed her wild scheme, Cathy felt everything was going to be all right. Golden Windows Dorothy J. Roberts In new pride I polish from my window pane The wavy rivulets where rain has been. Once, far away, I watched a splendor come Upon my own as on some hill-wide home. And I recall the sheets of flaming gold Each sash, against the dark and distance, held. The final fingers of the sunset reached Across the valley till these panes were touched And rooms were filled with molten gold that fell, A burning atras, to the window sill. Rayed in rose and distance, mine was no less Than the greatest treasure behind a window-glass. I shine to luster every crystal square For though I may not see it, gold is there, Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1896 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN OF ALL NaTIONS" VOTE WISELY: 'The political conditions of this country at the present time are anything but satisfactory. It is impossible to tell what a day may bring forth, or what new scheme may be developed by those who manipulate the machinery of politics. Disturbing elements are at work.... Every man is asking his neighbor what the issues are likely to produce.... It is a solemn time as well as a time of extraordinary privilege, for one cannot contemplate the condition of this nation under the present outlook without feelings of sadness, and only to those who trust in God can there come the hope that is uplifting. —Editorial RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN BINGHAM STAKE (IDAHO): President Zina D. H. Young and her Counselor Jane S. Richards, also Sister R. E. Monch attended the Relief Society Conference held at Iona, Idaho on the 13th of June. Apostle F. D. Richards was present and spoke very interestingly upon the Relief Society. These sisters had intended to visit Bannock and Bear Lake Stakes, but were hindered from making the trip on account of the high water. —FEditorial Notes THE OTHER WORLD It lies around us like a cloud, The world we do not see; Yet the sweet closing of an eye May bring us there to be Sweet souls around us watch us still, Press nearer to our side, Into our thoughts, into our prayers, With gentle helping glide —Selected THE AUTHOR OF "UNCLE TOM'S CABIN": Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe died at her home in Forest Street, Hartford (Connecticut) Wednesday, July ist. Mrs. Stowe, the daughter of Lyman Beecher, was born at Litchfield, Conn., June 15, 1811. At an early age she manifested a great eagerness for books.... On January 5, 1836, she married Rev. Calvin Stowe, D. D., professor of Biblical History in Lane Seminary, over which her father presided. During Mrs. Stowe's intervals of leisure amidst family cares, she contributed to the periodicals, sketches and short stories In 1852 she contributed to the National Era, an anti-slavery paper published at Washington, "Uncle Tom's Cabin" as a serial.... It met with unequaled success, 313,000 copies (in book form) were sold in the United States within three years and a half, and in all, over a million copies, including a German edition prepared there. In Great Britain its sale was enormous. It was translated into twenty different languages... And it was dramatized in various forms —Boston Transcript Page 440 OUR "Woman's Sphere" editor is sightseeing and visiting with members of her family in Europe and was privileged to attend the unusually inspirational Latter-day Saints Servicemen's Conference at the Army's Religious Retreat in Berchtesgaden. Minerva Young Bennion, wife of Elder Adam S. Bennion, touched the hearts of the servicemen with her appeal from mothers to these youths. The wives of the West German, French, and Netherlands Mi§ission _ presidents: Bernice O. Dyer, Rachael L. Lee, and Ada S. VanDam gave beautiful talks. 'The same is true of Sister Bringhurst, whose husband is president of the Bern Temple. FE, learned how proud _ the Dutch people are of their Queen Juliana. They love her thrift, her democracy, her schedule of hard work, her excellent and wise motherhood. Besides this, she is "a clever woman." She went all through the University of Leyden with no special privileges or help from anyone. Since the high schools in Holland have eight-year courses, the University work is on a more advanced level, and one is twenty-five (if smart like Juliana) or, ordinarily, twenty-six at graduation time. Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon ELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, was awarded an honorary degree, Doctor of Humanities, at the commencement exercises at Brigham Young University, June 1, 1956. In addition to her devoted and _ distinguished service to Relief Society, President Spafford has participated in many other social welfare and humanitarian activities. She became vice-chairman of the Crusade for Freedom in 1952; she has been a vice-president of the National Council of Women since 1948, and attended the meetings of the International Council of Women in Helsinki, Finland, in 1954, as head of the American delegation of the National Council of Women of the United States. She is a director of the American Mothers' Committee. President Spafford has already received a citation from Brigham Young University as a distinguished alumnus. IR'THDAY congratulations are extended to: Mrs. Jane Anderton Perkins, Bountiful, Utah; ninety-two; Mrs. Matilda C. Robbins, Salt Lake City, Utah, ninety-two; Mrs. Minnie Peterson Brown, Coalville, Utah, ninety-one; Mrs. Eleanor Kelly Nicholes, American Fork, Utah, ninety; Mrs. Sarah Burbank Williams, Brigham City, Utah, ninety; Mrs. Lovisa Allan, Wellsville, Utah, ninety. Page 441 CQ) EDITORIAL 9 VOL. 43 JULY 1956 Fro ntiers T has been said that frontiers are now but half-forgotten realms in the world of history, that their eager, spiritual beckoning, their call to adventure and far places, their promise and their fulfillment will never be known to another generation. It is true that the geographical aspects of the world are fairly well known, having been viewed from the skies, and having been explored even to the lonely outposts by the brave and the venturesome. Nearly all the habitable regions are occupied, and, although some areas are still in various phases of the pioneering stage, still the noontide of seeking the unknown frontier is past. Today we are not privileged to experience the sacrifice, the wonder, and the rejoicing of the quest of a far frontier. 'lhe wagons are gone, the trails but faintly marked upon the prairie; the mountain peaks are named and mapped, the course of the rivers long discovered. We may feel that in our generation we have lost something of that fearless facing of the future, that undeviating purpose, that great fulfillment that led the vanguard westward. And turned the desert into gardens. Still we need never be without the heritage of the frontier. It is our great legacy from the past to be for us a source of courage and buoyant inspiration, for, though the geographical frontiers have vanished, Page 442 the frontiers of the future forever remain — the undiscovered realms of mind and spirit — individual development and group accomplishment. Along these pathways, there are still mountains to climb and wide and verdant valleys to be cultivated. Much of life is like an ever-beckoning frontier. Take the morning, for instance — dawn is forever a frontier, the light of day on a far peak, the joy of waking with the golden hours unfolding. No one knows in the morning what treasures of enlightenment and understanding a day may bring. Its hours are all to be discovered — "'if I take the wings of the morning c A new type of work is a frontier, or a new way of doing a familiar responsibility. A homemaker walks each day in a frontier land, for almost every hour brings some new adventure on the trail of time. It may be only the planting of the garden, the glory of first bloom, the ripe fruit on a tree. It may be an adventure into designing or home decorating, or perhaps the making of a gift or the planning of a birthday dinner — or something more prosaic. Perfection may be in small units, and often a valley view of life may exceed in contentment the expanse that some far height reveals. How privileged is the woman who sees her children and her grandchildren embark on the frontiers of life. The mysterious world lies all around EDITORIAL the infant — to be explored — the texture of a petal, the satin lining of a quilt, the windowpane — and then all the further. Knowledge breaking upon his consciousness. Wonderful is the frontier of childhood and privileged those who may Share and influence that journey which reaches through family patterns into the far eternity. Each picture first seen, all the music heard and learned, are pathways of satisfaction where, in the mind and spirit, one may feel the joy of discovery. Who has fully discovered the treasures along scriptural highways? Each reading and re-reading may become a frontier of spiritual heights. Recall the Proverb, speaking of wisdom: The Lord possessed me in the beginning of his way, before his works of old. I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning.... When there were no depths, I was brought forth; when there were no fountains abounding with water. 443 fields, nor the highest part of the dust of the world (Proverbs 8:22-26). For us in the Church, our own Relief Society, established when Nauvoo the Beautiful was a frontier city, for us the world-wide sisterhood offers a broad and shining pathway into new interests and accomplishments, a journeying into regions of the mind and spirit not known before. For all of us there are illuminating and satisfying experiences in every meeting, every activity — new friends, new thoughts, new knowledge, further enlightenment, and the ever-increasing unity of the sisterhood. Once a poet in reverie asked, "What canst thou find with seeking which hath not long been found?" There is much to be found with seeking which we have not yet experienced, and the place to find our beckoning horizons is still along the far and near frontiers. We still shall find "the heaven for height, and the Before the mountains were settled, before earth for depth (Proverbs the hills was I brought forth. While as AG 2). | yet he had not made the earth, nor the —V a. C. ~~ >_> G randfather s Cello Dora Toone Brough The oxen trudged along, their pace was slow, Week after week across that sun-scorched plain; Grandfather's cello tied to a wagon bow— It came out West in a pioneer train. Yes, it must come, no matter what the risk For why should he leave such a treasured thing? And cello music could be loud and brisk By campfire glow, to help them dance and sing. It found its way into a hall of fame, That grand old Playhouse known from East to West? Those music makers of the past became Most famous, too, they were among the best. Now, in his grandson's home it shall endure Close by grandmother's loom, safe and secure. Notes TO THE FIELD Buying Sexthooks for Relicf Society Lessons ROM inquiries which come to the general board it would seem that some Relief Society officers and class leaders are not acquainted with the recommended procedure for acquiring necessary textbooks for lessons. The education counselor in both the stake and ward should present to the president of the respective organizations, a list of the textbooks which will be needed to teach the Relief Society lessons during the coming season. She should then be authorized to purchase these books with funds from the Relief Society general fund. 'The education counselors should see that the name of the Relief Society organization is written in each book before giving it to the respective stake or ward class leader for her use. At the end of the course the education counselor is responsible for collecting the books and placing them in the Relief Society library. Where a teacher wishes to purchase her own textbook in order to be able to mark it and keep it after the conclusion of the course, it is recommended that the Relief Society organization should also purchase a textbook: 1. In order that the book may become a part of the Relief Society library; 2. To be available for use by those given special assignments; 3. Because a change of teachers might be necessary during the course, and at that time it might be impossible for the Relief Society organization to purchase a copy of the desired textbook. Education counselors are urged to safeguard Relief Society libraries and to be alert to opportunities of adding to them gifts of Church and other worthwhile books. —_- deer Mabel Jones Gabbott Years are but soundless shells beside life's sea, When filled with only days and days, Yet each returns a muted symphony, When crowned with kindly gracious ways. Page 444 Lily il Hortnagl Mlakes Handicraft Gifts for Mlany Occasions ae Norton Scott Hortnagl of Long Beach, California, has done many kinds of work, but the "odd" minutes she has spent on her handicraft hobbies have netted her a rich reward and have given happiness to hundreds of her relatives and friends. She has made sixteen star quilts, and each of her children received a star quilt as a wedding gift. She has crocheted many doilies, pot holders, tablecloths, lace for many pillowships, and hundreds of other items. She has made baskets from greeting cards, has painted tea towels, and has done both hand and machine sewing of all kinds. Her work has won awards at fairs on different occasions, and two years ago she won a first prize for making a man's shirt, which was exhibited at the Arizona State Fair in Phoenix. Mrs. Hortnag] was born in Colonia Dublan, Mexico, and was married to Charles B. Scott in 1910. In 1927 she was left a widow with six children. In Pomerene, Arizona, she served nine years as postmistress, and, supplementing this occupation with janitorial work at might, she made a living for her family. With the help of her thirteen-year-old son, she built a house, using second-hand brick, rocks from the hills, and sand from the creek. She mixed the concrete with a hand mixer. When she was ready for the roof, all the men from the town helped put up the gable ends ready to be shingled. While Mrs. Hortnagl was tacking on the shingles, the Relief Society visiting teachers came. "Don't come down," they called, "we will give you our message and you can hear from where you are. 'The message is: 'Beautify Your Homes.' You are setting an example." In 1932 she was married to Lorenz Hortnagl and moved to California. She filled two stake missions and, in 1950, accompanied her husband to Switzerland for a twoyear mission. She has been a visiting teacher since 1910, and for thirteen years she made a one-hundred per cent record without a break. She has twenty-three grandchildren and one great-granddaughter. She has compiled a beautiful "Book of Remembrance' and loves to write. Mrs. Hortnagl says that she hopes she will never be "laid on the shelf." Page 445 RECIPES FROM THE DANISH MISSION 447 AEG 0G SILD (Eggs and Herrings) Spread slices of hard boiled egg on buttered bread and place one or more boned herrings lengthwise on the egg. Decorate with cress. REJEMAD (Shrimp Sandwich) The small Danish shrimps are extremely popular delicacies, and most Danish housewives are virtual masters at peeling them, but it is slow work for the beginner. At restaurants, shrimps are always served peeled, unless the customer specifically asks for unpeeled ones. Put a fresh leaf of lettuce on the buttered bread and top abundantly with cold boiled shrimps. DyRLAEGENS NATMAD ("The Veterinarian's Midnight Snack'') Spread spiced lard on a piece of dark rye bread, and put slices of liver paste on top. Pieces of jellied consomme are placed over this, and on top, pieces of slightly salted boiled veal. Decorate with cress. RoguEeFoRT Ost MED AEGGEBLOMME (Blue Cheese and Egg Yolk) Butter a piece of white bread and spread Danish blue cheese — or gorgonzola — in a ring, making a hollow in the center. When eating the sandwich, break the raw egg yolk and spread it across the cheese. Thin slices of radish may be used to decorate this and other kinds of cheese sandwiches. KopsuPPE MED URTER OG BOLLER (Meat Soup With Vegetables, Meat Balls, and Dumplings) Soup 8% Ibs. Beef 5 leeks 7 qts. Water parsley 1 celeriac (a variety of celery) salt and pepper to taste 4 Carrots Put the beef in water, add salt, cover, and boil for fifteen minutes. Then skim, and add celery or celeriac, carrots, leeks, and a bunch of the top of a leek, leaves from the celeriac or celery, a sprig of parsley and seasoning. When meat is tender, remove, together with the vegetables, and strain the soup. Cut the vegetables in small pieces. Meat Batts % Ib. Veal 2 c. Milk "2 |b. Pork 1 egg 2 tbsp. Flour salt and pepper to taste Put veal and pork together through the grinder four or five times. Add flour, milk, and eggs. Boil the meat balls by themselves, but do not add to the soup until they are done, otherwise, they will thicken the soup. Dumptincs 24 c. Butter 5 eggs 1 c. Flour little salt and sugar 1 c. Water Melt butter, stir in flour and add boiling water. When mixture is cool, add egg yolks and a little salt and sugar. Finally, fold in stiffly beaten egg whites. Form into 448 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 tiny balls with a teaspoon, and drop into boiling water. Cook slowly for a few minutes, and remove from water with a perforated spoon. Put the dumplings, the meat balls, and the vegetables in the soup and serve. Slice the beef and serve it afterwards with boiled potatoes and horse-radish sauce. AEBLEKAGE (Apple Cake) 2 Ibs. Cooking apples jelly 1 c. Melted butter whipped cream sweeten to taste vanilla dried bread crumbs Peel, core, and quarter apples. Simmer, covered in a little water, until soft. Force through a sieve and sweeten to taste. Add vanilla. Butter a fireproof dish, put layers of bread crumbs and layers of applesauce into the dish alternately, letting the bottom and the top layer be of bread crumbs. Pour the melted butter down through the apple cake, and bake for 30 minutes in a hot oven. 'Turn on to a plate and decorate with jelly and whipped cream. Additional whipped cream may be served in a separate dish. Serve the cake either hot or cold. KRINGLE (Knot-shaped Cake) 300 grams flour 2 eggs 300 grams butter or margarine 60 grams dry yeast 200 grams sugar egg and sugar for coating Mix flour with margarine or butter. Stir yeast with a little sugar and put it in the flour together with eggs. Roll the dough at once in two bars. Stir butter with sugar and place it on the bars. Form the bars as a knot, place them in the pan, and let them rise from three to four hours. Coat with egg and sugar. Bake in a hot oven (375°) for about 20 minutes. Note: About 28% grams equal an ounce in avoirdupois weight. For purposes of cooking measurements, it would be reliable to figure about 28 grams to an ounce. Ci1TRON-FROMAGE (Lemon Sponge Cream) 5 eggs 5 sheets husblas (unsweetened gelatine 100 grams sugar equal to one envelope) juice and grated peel of 1 lemon Whip egg yolks and sugar light and foamy. Add lemon juice and grated peel. Stir soaked, melted, and warmed gelatine in the eggs. Place in a cool place. When it thickens, mix carefully the stiff whipped egg whites in it. Pour into a bowl and set in a cool place until it is completely stiff. Decorate wth whipped cream. Note: If the sponge cream parts into two layers, the yolks and the whites have been mixed too early. If the gelatine thickens in fluffs or lumps, it has been too cold and added too slowly when it was mixed in the sponge cream. <-> Each Day Js Mine Mary Hess Hackney As time unwinds upon life's reel, Each day is mine, and none can steal The happiness and deep content That come to me with time well spent. Heart's Bounty CHAPTER 2 Deone R. Sutherland Synopsis: Fourteen-year-old Annie Griffith is taken by her father to Salt Lake City at the invitation of the Wialhams family to live and be educated with their daughter Marie. Annie's family is temporarily living in the mountains while Brother Griffith serves a mission to cut stone for the temple. Annie, almost in tears, bids goodbye to her father, and is comforted by Parker Josephson, a neighbor and friend of the Williams family. For Annie Griffith, and she was able to get over the first pangs of homesickness that she had felt. She longed for word of her family, and letters did come whenever anyone from the camp came to the town. She applied herself to her lessons and grew quite proud of the ease with which she sailed through her first Latin grammar. She would be reading Julius Caesar in no time, Professor Peterson said. But her heart sank as the days got crisper, and it was obvious that her father wasn't going to be able to make another trip down until spring. She hadn't really expected him, but the thought that he might, had comforted her at night those first sad days. Annie and Marie ran around the top of the carriage house spreading white sheets to dry fruit on. The apricots and corn were all long safe in the cellar, and the season for preparing for the winter, nearly over. Parker Josephson came out of his house and waved at the girls. He was with his father, and they were T HE days turned into a pattern on their way back to the Josephson store. Both girls nearly tumbled off the roof trying to wave back. Marie called out, but her Aunt Agnes reproved her _ sharply. "Theyre on their way back to Brother Josephson's store; you can't delay them for foolish play. Besides, Parker has a great many things to do these last few days, and you girls must leave him alone, so he can get ready without being interrupted by your games and jokes." Marie stood up with her arms akimbo. "Aunt Agnes, what's he getting ready for?" "Now, I have let the cat out of the bag, and we'll never finish our work. It's time for your lessons in less than an hour, and we've too much to do to waste it gabbing." Aunt Agnes set her lips firmly, and Anmie and Marie began to work again. Marie broke the silence once, but her Aunt Agnes again stopped her short. It wasn't until they raced back into the house for lesson time, that Marie rushed to her mother with their questions. "Why, girls, Marie dear, Parkers going back East to a university, a college. He's going to prepare himself in mathematics and the sciences so he can come home some day, and help make our own university a place to be proud of. I thought perhaps he might have told you already, Marie, but I suppose he was trying to save your feelings a few more happy days. He has been Page 449 450 such a good playmate for a little girl who had no sisters or brothers of her own. But now you have Annie." "T want Parker," Marie cried, and she burst into tears. "How long will he be gone?" Annie asked. Sister Williams stroked Marie's hair. "About three years, they say. Don't cry, Marie. He'll come back. You have other friends who love you, Marie." Marie looked up. "We can make him a present to take. Oh, Annie, let's make him something special. Only you'll have to do the sewing, because I'm such a dunce at sewing." Aunt Agnes stood in the doorway. "You're a little dunce, because you never finish anything you start. But I'll help you cut out and sew Parker a shirt, if you promise to stay with the project until it's completed." "T will, I will.' Marie danced with joy. '""That's a real present he'll love, won't he, Annie?" "Yes, if we can make it nicely enough. I've helped with my brother's shirts at home, but Mama always made Daddy's shirts." "T won't let you make any mistakes." Aunt Agnes smiled at Annie's earnest concern. "You'll be able to handle everything very well, I'm sure." HE week before Parker was to leave, Brother and Sister Williams had a small dinner for him in their home. There had been a dance held especially in his honor at the Church amusement hall, but the girls had had to come home early. Parker had been very fair; he had RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 danced with friends his own age, but had included one dance each for Marie and Annie. Aunt Agnes had thought they were much too young for that sort of thing. The girls had lain in bed and talked about the dance after Marie had finally stopped grumbling about having to come home so early. "It won't be the same without Parker,' Marie lamented, turning over and resting her cheek snugly in her pillow. "No," said Annie, "it won't be the same." "Tm glad he's coming to our place last of all before he's to go. Mama and Papa have been friends with his parents before I was even born. Do you think he'll ever come back?" "Of course," said Annie who was lying on her back looking up toward the dark ceiling. "Then Pm going to wait and marry him then," said Marie yawning. In a moment she was sound asleep, and, finally, Annie turned over and slept also. Sister Williams used her best china, the china Brother Williams had brought all the way from New York, for the special Parker dinner, as they called it. The girls flew back and forth working all day to help get the house shining and the dinner ready. 'There were no lessons that day, which made Marie jump for joy. The shirt was finished and pressed neatly and tied up in a package ready for Parker. "I'll be the one to give it to him," Marie said happily. "Annie should be the one," said Aunt Agnes, "since she did almost HEART'S BOUNTY all the work. You'll never be much of a sewer, I'm afraid, Marie." Sister Willams was brushing Marie's ringlets. "You're so hard on her, Agnes. Marie can give the shirt for both of them. Annie will be right there. He'll know they both did their best." "You'll let me, won't you, Annie?" Marie pleaded. "Of course, it doesn't matter who gives it to him." "You see!" phantly. "Do hold still," her mother pleaded. "We don't have much time to finish dressing, and you're taking all the time with your hair. Look, Annie's ready to go down and help again in the kitchen." Annie had braided her heavy black hair so tightly it pulled at her scalp. Her face was scrubbed until it shone, and the dark blue of her dress matched her eyes exactly. She followed Aunt Agnes back down the long dark stairs to the kitchen and pantry, where the main _ preparations for the meal were in progress. Steam covered all the downstairs windows, and it was unbearably warm in the kitchen. 'They dared not open the outside door, because both Sister Williams and Marie were prone to lung congestion. There were beads of perspiration on Annie's brow before it was finally time to serve dinner. Brother and Sister Josephson and two other families had come to the dinner. Though the girls helped with the serving, they also ate at the large, round dinner table. Annie thought she had never tasted such delicious roast beef and Yorkshire pudding. There were so many things to learn, Marie. Said trium- 451 thought Annie. They had not been able to have many elaborate dinners in the mountains. But there were not many years left, and they would all be back together on her father's farm. She would know a great deal by then, she thought. HEY saved the presents until after dinner. 'The families gathered in the parlor for singing, and then came the moment the girls had decided upon to present Parker with his shirt. Marie's eyes sparkled as she laid it in his lap. He untied it and declared that it was the nicest shirt he'd ever owned. Then he kissed Marie on the top of her head for a thank you, but Annie ran and hid in the kitchen when he came over to thank her, which made everyone laugh. They sang "Auld Lang Syne" and "God Be With You," and then Brother Williams said the evening prayers, with everyone kneeling against the chairs and_ loveseat. Everyone hated to say goodbye to Parker. He was such a lot of fun, and he was very industrious, everyone said. But he would be able to better serve his Church and _ people with further education, and he did have a good mind. At dawn the next morning, Marie and Annie ran and hid behind the lilac bushes to watch Parker leave with his father in the buggy. 'The girls had agreed to say nothing, simply to hide there and watch him leave, but at the last minute, Marie had danced out into the path calling, "Goodbye, Parker, goodbye." He ran over, then, and ordered Marie back into the house before She caught her death of cold. 452 "Goodbye, little Marie," he said. "Goodbye, Annie. Why did you run and hide last night when I wanted to say goodbye?" "T don't know," Annie said, and tried to drop behind Marie. "Here, then," Parker said. "We'll shake hands before I go, anyway." Annie offered her hand while Marie hopped up and down and cried, "You will write to us, won't you, Parker?" "T surely will, if you'll answer my letters. Now run back into the house both of you, or Marie's mother will never forgive me. Go on, while I watch. And no sniffling, Marie." Annie turned to follow Marie, but Parker caught her arm again. "Annie, will you still be here when I get back?" "T think so," Annie said without looking at him. "T guess you'll be all grown up then, but I hope you'll be here or not too far away, anyway." Annie tried to draw away, and this time he let her go, but he didn't turn until the big door had closed on both the girls. T was hard for Marie and Annie to concentrate on their lessons. In a few days, though, they felt less as if they had lost their only friend, and began to play again and consider that there would be a time when Parker would be coming back. By spring Annie was well into Julius Caesar and able to read it very well. Professor Peterson had nothing but praise for the results of her serious efforts. Marie would bend her golden head over her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 book, stumbling on the phrases until her face would grow scarlet. Annie yearned to whisper the answers, but she was far too afraid of the wrath of their teacher. The lessons sometimes ended with Marie in a fit of tears, but, more often, Marie was indifferent. "T never want to be a teacher," she would say petulantly, when her teacher would question her why she was not better prepared. "I'm going to get married." "Do you not think you need to know anything to get married?" Professor Peterson's face would get angry. When Marie's mother sat in the room with them, the lessons went more peacefully. Often two other girls joined them for special lessons. It was more fun in a larger group, Annie thought, and Marie did better when she wasn't really pinned down to be specific in her answers. In the spring, the girls were told that this year would finish any mathematics they were to have. Marie was delighted, but Annie stayed to talk to Professor Peterson after their lessons. "IT feel I know nothing about mathematics," she explained. "I would like you to help me go on in that study next fall. I can't stop now before I've really learned anything." Professor Peterson put his finger beside his nose. "You may continue those lessons. Most certainly." He did not say it, but Annie with her quick mind was a continual delight to him. And now this. Yes, she would make a fine teacher. "The glory of God is intelligence." HEART'S BOUNTY AFTER the snow melted and the earth dried for summer, Annie began to look forward to seeing her father again. She half expected someone to bring a letter letting her know when he might be coming into Salt Lake. One afternoon after she had finished scrubbing the kitchen, the pantry, the porch, and the stairs that led down to the board walk in back of the house, she looked up to see Aunt Agnes (as she now called Marie's Aunt) beckoning her from the window. There was a stitch in her back when she stood up, and she hadn't washed her hands yet, but she went right back up the stairs. She rinsed her hands in the kitchen and Aunt Agnes came to the doorway in some agitation. "Annie, dear, do hurry. There's news of your father in the parlor." Annie never bothered to dry her hands at all. A letter? Here? She ran down the hall toward the front of the house, seeking Sister Williams who must have the letter. "No, not a letter," Aunt Agnes called, but Annie dashed into the parlor and almost stumbled over her father sitting quietly talking to Sister Williams. He caught her in his arms and kissed her soundly and made her sit down. "Oh, Father," Annie cried, "I was going to impress you so with my lady-like behavior when you came, and now I've spoiled everything." "You did come in a bit swiftly," her father laughed. "But Sister Williams has told me enough to make me very happy and proud of you, Annie." Annie's eyes thanked Sister Williams. It was wonderful to visit 453 with her father again, and get news of her mother and her brothers. They talked of how quickly the year had gone by, and how quickly the next three years would pass, and then they would be back together again at their own farm, north of Great Salt Lake City. Annie would be able to teach somewhere close by, or perhaps stay at home and help her mother. Annie thought that would be wonderful. It was sad to see her father go again in two days, but Annie didn't need anyone this time to help her through the parting, as Parker had helped her the year before. She cried a little in her pillow at night, but woke with a happy heart and a zest for all the things she and Marie were required to do each day. She read the Aeneid the next winter, and began Greek. She had always been excellent in spelling and reading and was doing well, Professor Peterson thought, in her mathematics—for a girl. "You could make a first-rate scholar," Professor Peterson told her once. "But Marie, you're dawdling all your time and talent away." Marie never heard. She daydreamed, with her curls caught between her pretty hands. "Annie, which trim shall I have on my new dress, the pink lace or the brown?" Professor Peterson stood up in exasperation, and the lessons were over for another day. Annie worked all summer over presents te send to her family. She knitted a warm woolen petticoat and shawl for her mother, and made shirts and socks for her broth- 454 ers and father. Sometimes she was desperate because she felt she might never finish them before the last wagon went up to the little camp in the mountains. There was little time when she was not working or studying or accompanying Marie somewhere. But she did get her bundle completed and firmly packed and sent off with Brother Harris who had his small family up in the mountains, too. Annie felt dull and just a little sad, with her sewing finished and no new project immediately in sight. 'The days were getting cold and sharp when Marie and Annie received their first letter from Parker Josephson. Marie squealed with delight. "TIsn't he kind and thoughtful to include both our names on the letter, Annie? Isn't he wonderful?" He told of the big Eastern university and the pretty countryside, and how much more foliage there was back there than at home. He said he missed everyone very much, but especially the jokes and fun of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 his two little friends. There was also a long letter to Marie's parents and, of course, mail for his own family and other friends his own age. "We must write him back at once," Marie said. "You can help me with a letter, Annie. Help me think of things to say." "And how to spell the words?" asked Aunt Agnes briskly. "Yes," laughed Marie. "T'll write the letter. What do you want me to tell Parker for you, Annie?" Aunt Agnes bit a thread with her teeth. 'Marie, maybe Annie wants to write her own letter." "No, that's all nght," Annie said, not looking up from her crocheting. "Marie can tell him hello for me." Marie danced off to get the materials for writing from her mother. Annie pressed her lips together firmly and blinked back the sting against her eyelids. It was foolish to be so sensitive. She would have to learn to be less so. (To be continued ) — Jn the Quiet Harbor Mabel Law Atkinson Within the harbor of tranquility I judge the ravages of pirate years Less harshly than the while they plundered me, Flaunting their dreaded gonfalon of fears; For now I know the wise, far-seeing Pilot Chartered the course my fragile craft should take To come at last unto fulfillment's islet Where starlings call a challenge from the brake. Where once the winds of desolation moaned To mock my cry, re-echoes lyric song— Mute carillons of angels were intoned Within despair to guide my craft along. The dreams I thought the piste years had killed | = ~ Now in thé quiet' harbor are fulfilled.- °° —e ale BRIM c 2 CUT DOUBLE {: i Vv < 18" - YO vO iS / Back i 18!) af {0 2 Ee Plo < S J sieaeleneate a J<— 374" STRIP FACED 14 if TO UNDERSIDE TO / GATHER TO FORM a iy CAPE J J fe— FACE OR HEM — a ----- Seow a Sunbonnet Manijane Morris [I the women of America were ever to need a common symbol — it could be the sunbonnet. The broad-brimmed bonnets, in some form or another, were always present whenever something really important happened to America. Curiously, however, little information is available on them as a type of headdress. And yet, they have endured through the years and are still a favorite of many women. Those who make and wear sunbonnets today may not do as grandmother did, match them to their dresses, but you can be sure they know their value in warding off the sun's rays and frustrating the insects. Surely, the sunbonnet has earned more than mention in a dictionary. The pattern here is a basic one consisting of five pieces: the brim, the back, the three-fourths inch deep strip sewed to the underside back to be used to gather up the cape, and the two ties. It requires one-half yard of any kind of light-weight material, print, organdy, cretonne, etc. The brim is made double. The back is gathered to the underside of. The brim, and the right side of the brim stitched down on top, as you would attach a collar. Or skirt band.; SS Page 455 Sa ndwiches Rhea H. Gardner Extension Service Home Management and Furnishings Specialist, Utah State Agricultural College The purpose of a sandwich determines the kind and amount of filling to be used, as well as its size. A sandwich can supply most of the needs of a good meal, or it may be a light accompaniment to a salad, soup, or beverage. CHEESE FILLINGS: PIMIENTO CHEESE LOGs Cut a sandwich loaf into thin slices. Trim off crusts. Spread each slice with cream cheese pimiento filling. Roll up like a jelly roll. Circle with bacon; fasten ends with toothpick, then broil till golden on all sides and bacon is crisp. Serve at once with a crisp salad. SPECIAL CHEESE Blend together one 3-0z. Package cream cheese, 1 tbsp. Chopped pimiento, 1% tbsp. Chopped olives, and % tbsp. Chopped nuts. SNAPPY CHEESE Wash, dry, and finely chop 1 c. Water cress. Add 3 tbsp. Cream cheese, % tbsp. Worcestershire and 1 tbsp. French dressing. ROQUEFORT SPECIAL Blend 1 small package (3 0z.) cream cheese with 2 oz. Roquefort or blue cheese. Season with % tsp. Grated onion, % tsp. Worcestershire and % tsp. Salt. Spread on bread. Cut. Sprinkle each sandwich with paprika and place under broiler to brown. VARIETY CHEESE SPREAD This easily prepared spread is excellent for sandwiches and hors d'oeuvres. 'The possibilities of seasoning it are endless.: 1 pound cheddar-type cheese —- any smooth melting cheese may be used. Process cheese is excellent. 1 tall can evaporated milk. Grate cheese or cut in small pieces. Put cheese and milk in top part of double boiler; cook over hot water, stirring constantly just until the cheese melts. Remove from heat and season to taste. It is a good idea to divide the mixture into 2 or 3 portions and season each differently. Seasonings: Minced chives, pimiento, or parsley Chopped olives or celery Pickle relish Prepared mustard Caraway seeds CHICKEN SALAD ROLLS Combine 1 c. Each minced chicken and celery, and % c. Each chopped nuts and shredded carrots with % c. Thick sour cream, 2 tbsp. French dressing; 1 tsp. Each salt and dry mustard, and % tsp. Sage. Spread on 8 buttered rolls. Page 456 SANDWICHES 457 CHICKEN SALAD Combine 1% c. Chopped cooked chicken, %4 c. Chopped celery, 2 tbsp. Chopped olives, %4 tsp. Salt. Mix with enough mayonnaise to moisten — about 4 tbsp. Add a crisp leaf of lettuce or shredded lettuce to each sandwich. (Tuna may be used in place of chicken. ) CHICKEN AND ALMOND Combine 1 c. Chopped cooked chicken, 4 c. Chopped toasted almonds or peanuts, 3 tbsp. Mayonnaise, 3 tbsp. Sour cream, 1 tbsp. Lemon juice, salt and pepper to taste. Mix well. CHICKEN TREAT Use two parts each of chopped cooked chicken and broken California walnuts with 1 part drained crushed pineapple, moistened with salad dressing. CornepD BEEF Combine 1 c. Chopped corned beef, % c. Chopped celery, 1 tsp. Grated onion, 1 tbsp. Prepared mustard, 2 tbsp. Mayonnaise. Mix well. Tuna SPECIAL Remove excess oil from canned tuna fish. Flake fish and combine 1 c. With % c. Each of chopped celery, nuts, and olives; add % tsp. Salt and mayonnaise, enough to moisten — about 4 tbsp. ORANGE CRUNCH SANDWICHES 3 oranges, 1 tbsp. Butter, 2 c. Granulated sugar, 1 c. Boiling water. Put orange rinds and all through food chopper, using coarse blade. Mix all ingredients in saucepan. Boil about 15 minutes or until mixture is thick. Store in covered jar in refrigerator. When ready to use, spread slices of raisin bread with butter. Mix chunk style peanut butter ito as much of the orange mixture as you intend to use. Spread on bread. SANDWICH FILLINGS SUITABLE FOR FREEZING: BrEeF AND KetcHupP 1% c. Cooked ground beef "2 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Worcestershire ¥% c. Ketchup 1 'tbsp. Softened butter Cornep BEEF 1 c. (12 oz. Can) corned beef, chopped 2 tbsp. Pickle relish % ¢. Cooked salad dressing "2 tsp. Celery salt CHICKEN OR TUNA AND PICKLE 1% c. Cooked, chopped chicken or tuna ¥ c. Boiled salad dressing or undiluted % c. Chopped pickle ~ | cream of chicken soup 1 tsp. Worcestershire sauce % tsp. Celery salt Selected Data—Annual Report 1955 REV Society continued to advance in nearly all phases of the program during 1955, its 113th year, according to the activities and achievements reflected in this report compiled mn the annual reports of 223 stakes and 42 missions. Many worthwhile and inspiring activities, particularly in compassionate service, were disclosed by the narrative sections of the reports. There were 7,213 members added to Relief Society dung the year, bringing the total membership to 163,513—a considerable number being young women living in foreign lands to which their husbands have been assigned in the armed forces. These young women not only enjoy the benefits of the Relief Society program themselves, but are introducing them to their neighbors among whom they are temporarily living. While the growth reflected in 1955 is commendable, it is less than 1954, and so our goal— every Latter-day Saint woman a member of Relief Society—should continue to receive constant, serious consideration. In 1955, 103,467 Relief Society members participated in leadership activities, bringing opportunity for development to 6,269 more women than were reached by these activities in 1954. The overall average attendance at regular meetings showed a slight decrease, though there was a slight increase in the missions. Theology and testimony meetings continued to enjoy the largest attendance, followed, in order, by work, literature, and social science meetings. We are particularly gratified to see that work meeting, through its varied program designed to meet the needs of all homemakers, old and young, is bringing into the society many young women interested in making their homes attractive and happier. Visiting teacher meetings increased 760 in the stakes and 376 in the missions, and the increase of 163,079 visits to Latter-day Saint families by 4,873 more visiting teachers in 2,617 more districts, reflects steady progress in this vital activity. Compassionate services continued to receive increased attention as indicated by 12,421 more visits to the sick and homebound, and ten more days care of the sick, over 1954. The increase in days care of the sick, while small, is commendable in view of the present trend toward hospitalization. 'The narrative sections of the reports contained many inspiring and heartwarming incidents of varied types of solicitude and help for the aged as well as for neighbors and friends. All this is evidence that the grand key words of the society as given by the Prophet Joseph Smith — "'Said Jesus: 'Ye shall do the work which ye see me do' " — continue to have place and purpose in the hearts of Relief Society members. This is the second year we have received reports on the Singing Mothers choruses. These showed 2,005 choruses in the stakes and missions, an increase of 228, with approximately 30,983 singers, an increase of 3,703 over 1954. These are very encouraging increases in this lovely and satisfying activity which gives added unity, spirituality, and cultural benefits to those who listen as well as to those who sing, and, in addition, brings music into the homes of the participants. Each year sees an expansion of Relief Society's program and influence, not only in the established stakes and missions, but in newly created stakes and in missions in remote lands and islands not heretofore reached, and so our great band of sisterhood gradually is encircling the world. The general board gratefully acknowledges the support of all those who have so unselfishly given of their time, talents, minds, and hearts in advancing the Relief Society program of raising human lives to higher and happier levels. With the sustained loyalty of its devoted workers, Relief Society will continue to do so. Mangerut 0. Pietsrimg General Secretary-Treasurer Page 458. ANNUAL REPORT. 459 MEMBERSHIP — 1955 334,906 L. D. S. Families + 16,216 over 1954 163,513 R. S. Members -|- 7,213 over 1954 or 48.82% of potential membership In Stakes 276,077 L. D. S. Families ie 11,495 over 1954 133,228 R. S. Members = 6,166 over 1954 or 48.26% of potential membership In Missions 58,829 L. D. S. Families + 4,721 over 1954 30,285 R. S. Members JE 1,047 over 1954 or 51.48% of potential membership LEADERSHIP ACTIVITIES 103,467 R. S. Members Participated in Leadership Activities — 1955 97,198 in 1954 1955 1954 General Officers ----:----+-++ 26 24 Stake Officers 2..2.-222-.200-------- 2,579 2,490 Mission Officers --------++ 697 607 Local Executive Officers 13,882 13,524 Other Officers - ----------- 7,309 | 7,011 Class Leaders -0 2..22---00000 13,462 12,903 Visiting Teachers ---.-------- 65,512. 60,639 460 GEOGRAPHIC DISTRIBUTION OF RELIEF SOCIETY RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 ORGANIZATIONS AND MEMBERS—1955 Location Stakes OrganiMembers zations United States and Territories Alabama Alaska Arizona 105 6,385 Arkansas California 298 18,232 Colorado 25 1,348 Connecticut Delaware District of Columbia 3 110 Florida 9 364 Georgia 3 04 Hawaii 16 739 Idaho 329 20,113 Illinois 8 311 Indiana 1 26 Iowa Kansas Kentucky Louisiana 9 238 Maine Maryland 4 268 Massachusetts Michigan 9 272 Minnesota Mississippi 8 118 Missouri Montana 12 368 Nebraska Nevada 41 2,316 New Hampshire New Jersey 2 85 New Mexico 18 649 New York 5 241 North Carolina North Dakota Ohio 1 33 Oklahoma Oregon 54 2,739 Pennsylvania 1 42 Rhode Island = South Carolina 12 419 zations Missions OrganiMembers 14 177 4 119 23 437 7 110 33 861 26 615 4 80 3 43 35 632 19 382 41 810 5 99 28 523 22 542 10 205 21 312 22 358 8 156 11 127 1 13 11 192 5 118 15 333 7 118 21 435 50 1,130 13 194 3 32 4 129 30 516 21 405 40 816 6 62 21 501 22 © 339 23 494 24 432 2 12 10 139 14 4 128 7 331 51 Totals OrganiMembers zations 177 119 6,822 110 19,093 1,963 80 43 ANNUAL REPORT Stakes OrganiMembers zations United States and Territories South Dakota Tennessee Texas 38 1,134 Utah 911 67,880 Vermont Virginia 5 271 Washington 61 2,947 West Virginia Wisconsin 3 115 Wyoming 52 2,785 Total United States Other Countries Argentina Australia Austria Belgium Brazil Canada 57. Costa Rica Denmark England Finland (1954) France (1954) Germany — East (1954) Germany — West Guatemala Honduras Ireland Japan | Mexico 4 150 Netherlands New Zealand Nicaragua Norway (1954) Panama Canal Zone Puerto Rico Salvador Samoa (1954) Scotland Sweden Switzerland Tahiti Tonga Union of South Africa Uruguay Wales Total Other Countries 61 GRAND TOTAL Location 2,043 130,642 2,436 2,104 Missions OrganiMembers zations 9 117 13 199 34 554 2 19 22 443 8 156 10 203 13 168 16 308 792 15,165 21 424 24 531 6 127 11 86 15 143 67 1,191 2 15 17 359 71 937 13 168 14 111 95 3,777 65 906 5 98 1 5 3 DI 20 245 56 1,183 22 279 70 998 1 5 13 343 2 25 2 17 3 37 50 686 6 81 4] 518 26 388 15 170 40 619 15 199 24 364 & 34 840 15,120 1,632 30,285 461 Totals OrganiMembers zations 117 190 1,688 67,880 IG. 714 3,103 203 283 3,093 145,807 462 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 MEETINGS — 1955 176,358 Total Meetings Held in Wards and Branches 120,008 Regular Meetings Increase or a In Stakes Over 1964 In Missions Over 1954 PTheology 16,354 + 788 13,921 + 220 Work 23,347 + 1,263 15,931 — 50 Literature 15,967 + 743 10,944 + 352 (Optional Lessons in Missions) Social Science 13,882 + 486 9,662 — 159 (Optional Lessons in Missions) 19,790 Visiting Teacher Meetings Increase Over 1954 In Stakes 2 eccceecceeseeceenene 15,125 + 760 In Missions 0 --0e---000 4,665 + 376 36,560 All Other Meetings Increase Over 1954 In Stakes cccccesssscceseceeceeoeee 21,474 + 1,370 In Missions --s0----eeceeeeees 15,086 + 736 ANNUAL REPORT 463 ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS — 1955 Regular Meetings 58,633 or 35.86% Total Average Attendance in 1955 56,166 or 35.93% in 1954 Average Attendance Total Average Increase In Stakes In Missions Attendance Over 1954 Theology 51,357 12,389 63,746 +2,316 Work 46,160 11,859 58,019 +3,442 Literature 45,148 11,554 56,702 +2,804 Social Science 43,731 11,014 54,745 +1,180 VISITING TEACHER MEETINGS 33,238 or 50.74% Total Average Attendance in 1955 31,217 or 51.48% in 1954 Average Attendance Total Average Increase In Stakes In Missions Attendance Over 1954 29,401 3,837 = =33,238 =+2,021 VISITING TEACHER SERVICE 1955 1954. Over 1984 Total Family Visits 2,797,264 2,634,185 + 163,079 Visiting Teachers 65,512 60,639 + 4,873 Districts 35,045 32,428 + 2,617 Families Visited At Home 1,873,610 1,764,915 + 108,695 Not Home 923,654 869,270 + 54,384 8.35 Av. Visits were made to each L. D. S. Family in 1955 8.27, in 1954 464 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 SEWING SERVICE — 1955 Increase 1955 1954. CHPectease Total Articles Completed 313,495 298,005 -+15,490 Av. Number of Women Sewing Monthly at Work Meeting 45,888 45,158 + 730 Quilts 0 18,367 17,165 + 1,202 Children's Clothing 30,664 29,079 + 1,585 Women's Clothing 43,644 41,463 -+ 2,181 Men's Clothing.- 2,505 3,057 — 552 Household Furnishings 99,711 93,120 + 6,591 Miscellaneous Articles 118,604 114,121 + 4,483 COMPASSIONATE SERVICE — 1955 Increase 1955 1954 Over 1954 Visits to Sick and Homebound. 247,878 235,457 +-12,421 Days Care of Sick 25,510 25,500 + 10 Number of Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted.. 7,168 6561 + 607 Dressing for Burial _ 656 678 — 22 ANNUAL REPORT 465 CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE — 1955 Increase 1955 1954 Oven TaEt Average Number of Women Participating in Welfare Sewing at Work Meeting 8,268 8,648 — 380 5 a Average Number of yah Women Participating in Welfare Sewing 7 <a at Sewing Center 2,374 3,178 — 804 Average Number of Women Participating in Welfare Projects Other Than Sewing 18,077 16,243 + 1,834 FAMILY WELFARE SERVICE — 1955 Increase 1955 1954 "over T954 Number of Initial Family Visits Under Direction of Bishop 11,093 10,983 + 110.\, Number of Subsequent | or Follow-up Visits 27,518 26,874 + 644 * Number Visited Who _\ Gave Service on \ Church Welfare > ProjectS _2.. Ee ee eteeeeees 2,395 2,299 -+- 96 Number of Women Visited Who Sewed at Work Meeting 2,243 2,246 — 3 Number of Women Visited Who Sewed for Themselves and Families - --------- 2,713 2,174 — 61 466 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL REPORT FOR STAKES AND MISSIONS Receipts and Disbursements — 1955 Cash Balance on Hand, January 1 $ 1,087,379.38 FROCSIS US eh ste nenennen nes 1,668,621.55 $ 2,756,000.93 Disbursements _2 0.2-0..02.-0--eceeeeeeeneeeeeeeee 1,592,047.01 Cash Balance on Hand, December 31 _$ 1,163,953.92 Assets and Liabilities — December 31, 1955 Assets emnems COSH Balance on Hand, December 31..$ 1,163,953.92 - Wheat Trust Fund Deposited at Presiding Bishop's Office 1 422,912.22 Other Invested Funds (Savings Bonds, etc.) o2 2. Cceeeteteeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 86,001.27 Real Estate and Buildings — 2 87,963.05 Furniture and Fixtures —.000000200000.00..--- 814,414.03 Other Assets - 0..22 2210c220cceeceseeeeeeeeeeee 170,650.28 Total Assets 00..00 ceeccceeeeeeeeeeeeee$ 2,745,894.77 Liabilities Accounts Payable ~..00 2 2-22-..2-:--20--000+$ 2,605.14 Balance Net Worth ~ 0002000202.2222.2--n---- 2,743,289.63 Total Liabilities and Net Worth.$ 2,745,894.77 KX REPORT OF FUNDS FOR NEW = RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING 1947 — 1955 Receipts Contributions - 1 -oe f$ 563,142.98 Co a 20,029.16 Proceeds from Sale of NN tea NONI - serene -..---------0a2-- 3,594.50 Total Receipts -----------$ 586,766.64 Disbursements Including Construction Expense - --------- 407,072.92 Cash Balance December 31, 1955 $ 179,693.72 = eT ANNUAL REPORT 467 COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL DATA 1954-1955 1955 1954 Changes 1954 to 1955 Number Number Number or or Or Amount Amount Amount Per Cent Organizations Stakes and Missions, Total 265 258 + i aA Stakes _2 2-ceeceeeeeeeeeeeeceeceeneees 223 216 + To 324 Missions -.-.--00-----00000 42 42 — — Jia).___ --. Ca-----centeeeeconeee-+-coeede 3,736 3,601 + 135 + 3.75 Wards and Branches in Stakes 2,104 2,023 -+- 81 + 4.00 Branches in Missions 1,632 1578 + pre 42 Membership Total 163,513 156,300 + 7,213 + 4.61 Stakes: _ --. Scsecccesccsscceecceonnes 133,228 127,062 + 6,166 + 4.85 Missions _ -..-..-2-.------esesesseeeeeeeeee 30,285 29,238 + 1,047 + 3.58 General Officers and Board Members ++ 26 24 + Z + 8.33 Stake Officers and Board Members 2,579 2,490 -}- C7 == ar Mission Presidents and Other Officers -- 0 s00 697 607 + 90 +-14.83 Ward and Branch Executive Officers - 13,882 13,524 + 358 + 2.65 Other Officers _..222.2.00..2eeeeeeeee 7,309 7O1L 298 +- 4.25 Class Leaders -22222.22 e..-- 13,462 12,903 + 559 + 4,33 Visiting Teachers 65,512 60,639 + 4,873 + 8.04 All Other Members 60,046 59,102 + 944 + 1.60 L. D. S. Families—T otal 334,906 318690 + 16,216 + 5.09 In Stakes 22. Ceeeceeecceeeneeees 276,077 264,582 + 11,495 4+ 4.34 In Missions 2..22 -.1.--ceeeceeeee 58,829 STwe = yz 8.73 Meetings and Attendance 1. Meetings Held, Total 181,651 174,733 + 6,918 + 3.96 General Board Meetings 31 29 + 2 + 6.90 Relief Society General Conference _o cesceeeeeees 1 1 — = Group Stake Conventions 120 112° 8 + 7.14 In Stakes and Missions 5,141 5,118 + 23 + 45 Stake and Mission District Board Meetings 2,883 2,791 +- Joes 3:30 Stake and Ward Officers (Union) Meetings 2,258 2,327 — 69 — 2.97 In Wards and Branches 176,358 169,473 + 6,885 + 4.06 Regular Meetings fo Members 0 22 2----00-00 120,008 116,365 + 3,643 + 3.13 March, November Sundays and Other Special Meetings — 2---.----eeeeee 12,959 11,518 + 1,441 +12.51 Visiting Teachers Meetings.. 19,790 18,654 + 1,136 + 6.09 Preparation Meetings: 18,496 18,0139 + 483 + 2.68 Relief Society Conferences.- 3,192 3,002 +- 190 + 6.33 R. S. Conf. Preliminar Meetings aaa. 1,913 1,921 — 8 —.42 468 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 1955 1954 Changes 1954 to 1955 Number Number Number or or or Amount Amount Amount Per Cent 2. Average Attendance at Regular Meetings for Members 58,633 56,166 + 2,467 + 4.39 In Stakes.02..222..222-eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 46,599 44,650 + 1,949 4 4.37 In Missions _ -----.--------00++ 12,034 11,516 + 518 + 4,50 3. Per Cent of Members Represented by Average Attendance at Regular Meetings -_ 35.86% 35.93% In Stakes..02 2 22eeeeeeeeeeeeees 34.989, 35.14% In Missions --.--.---2+--++--+- 39.74%, 39.38% 4. Average Attendance at Visiting Teachers Meetings 33,238 31,217 + 2,021 + 6.47 5. Per Cent of Visiting Teachers | Represented by Average Attendance ooo eeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeees 50.74% 51.48% Visits by Stake and Mission Officers 1. To Wards and Branches 24,864 23,411 + 1,453 + 6.21 To Wards by Stake Officers.. 19,309 18,201 + 1,108 + 6.09 To Branches by Mission and District Officers _ 5,555 5,210 + 345 + 6.62 Activities 1. Visiting Teaching: Number of Visiting Teacher Districts - 22.222..---2-20--1000+ 35,045 32,428 + 2,617 + 8.07 Family Visits — Total - 2,797,264 2,634,185 +163,079 + 6.19 Home oon eeeneeeeeeeeneeeeeeeeees 1,873,610 1,764,915 +108,695 + 6.16 Not Home -..-------::-+-++- 923,654 869,270 + 54,384 + 6.26 Per Cent at Home - 66.98% 67.00% Number Communications in Lieu of Visits --.-.--.---10++ 42,798 32,910 + 9,888 + 30.05 2. Educational Meetings: Average Attendance at Relief Society - ---------seeeeeceeeeeeeeeees Theology -..---.---::---::1-00++- 63,746 61,430 + 2,316 + 3.77 Work (Sewing) - ------+-- 58,019 54,5//— + 3442 + 631 Literature _ -----.0--eeee-- 56,702 53,898 + 2,804 + 5.20 Social Science 2..--.--- 54,745 53,565 + 1,180 + 2.20 3. Sewing Service at Meetings: Average Number of Women Sewing Monthly 45,888 45,158 + 730 + 1.62 Total Articles Completed 313,495 298,005 + 15,490 + 5.20 Kind of Articles: Quilts 2. Eee 18,367 17,165 + 1,202 + 7.00 Children's Clothing 30,664 29,079 + 1,585 + 5.45 Women's Clothing 43,644 41,463 + 2,181 + 5.26 Men's Clothing - 2,505 3,057 — 552 —18.06 Household Furnishings 99,711 93,120 + 6,591 + 7.08 Other (Miscellaneous) 118,604 114,121 + 4,483 +. 3.93 ANNUAL REPORT 4. Compassionate Service: Visits to Sick and Homebound Number Days Care of the Sick Number of Bodies Dressed for Burial Number of Funerals at Which Relief Society Assisted 5. Church Welfare Services: Average Number Women Participating in Welfare Sewing at Work Meeting Average Number Women Participating in Welfare Sewing at Sewing Center 0.000000 Average Number Women Participating in Welfare Projects Other Than Sewing 6. Family Welfare Service: Number Initial Visits Under Direction of Bishop Number of Subsequent or Follow-up Visits.0.000000002.. Number Visited Who Gave Service on Church Welfare Projects Number of Women Visited Who Sewed at Work Meet- 10 oe Who Sewed for Themselves and Families Total Number of Wards and Branches With Lists of Nurses Wards and Branches in Stakes Mission Branches - Total Number of Wards and Branches Having Singing Mothers Choruses -.-.- Wards and Branches in Stakes Mission Branches Total Approximate Number of Singers Wards and Branches in Stakes Mission Branches Magazine 'Relief Society Magazine Subscriptions Finances Cash Receipts $1,668,621.55 1,592,047.01 _.. 2,743,289.63 Cash Disbursements Net Assets 1955 469 1954 Changes 1954 to 1955 Number Number OTL or Amount Amount Number or Amount Per Cent 247,878 235,457 + 12,421 + 5.28 25,510 25500 + 10+.04 656 678 — 22 — 3.24 7,168 6,561 + 607 + 9.25 8,268 8,648 — 380 — 4.39 2,374 3,178 — 804 —25.30 18,077 16,243 + 1,834 411.29 11,093 10,983 + 110 + 1.00 27,518 26,874 + 644 + 2.40 2,395 2,299 + 96 + 4.18 2,243 2,246 — 3— 13 2,713 2,774 — 61 — 2.20 2,190 2,043 + 147 + 7.20 1,673 1,566 + 107 + 6.83 517 477 + 40 + 8.39 2,005 1,777 + 228 +12.83 1,600 1430 + 170 +11.89 405 347 + 58 +1671 30,983 27,280 + 3,703 +13.57 26,683 23,095 + 3,588 415.54 4,300 4185 4+ 115 + 2.75 135,726 — 128,86814-1.6,857144 5.32 $1,517,003.50 +$151,618.05 + 9,99 1,466,112.69 + 125,934.32 +4 8.59 2,633,414.03 + 109,875.60 + 4.17 Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Rose B. Astle SOUTH LOS ANGELES STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS FURNISH MUSIC FOR PATRIOTIC PROGRAM "LAND OF THE FREE," March 16, 1956 Ruth Haycock, the chorister, is seated at the right on the front row, and the organist, Lillian Carsey, is seated next to Sister Haycock. Rose B. Astle, President, South Los Angeles Stake Relief Society, reports the activities of these Singing Mothers: "They furnished music for a patriotic program en-- titled "Land of the Free," honoring our ward Rclicf Society officers, Magazine representatives, and our elderly people. They also furnished music for our recent stake quarterly conference, and in several of our wards they have sung for sacrament meetings. They will sing for our coming Relief Society convention, where our stake will be host to Inglewood and Los Angeles Stake Relief Societies." Page 470 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 47] Ve Photograph submitted by Christie H. Haynes NEVADA STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY THIRTIETH ANNIVERSARY SOCIAL HONORS FORMER PRESIDENTS, March 23, 1956 Standing, left to right, former presidents: Mary E. Horlacher; Louisa Johnson; Anna M. Aljets; Erma A. Erickson; Hope G. Broadbent; Lucille Horton; Koa L. 'Taylor; Marietta T'. Call; Sylvia H. Johnson; Christie H. Haynes, present President, Nevada Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Elaine B. Curtis HOLLADAY STAKE (UTAH) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR. QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, March 18, 1956 Seated at the organ, left to mght: Wilma B. Bunker, chorister; Maurine W. Keyes, pianist; Theo C. Eves, organist. Two hundred Singing Mothers presented the music for quarterly conference at the time of the organization of the Holladay Stake. Wood fiber corsages were made by the stake board members and presented to each Singing Mother. Holladay Stake was formerly part of Cottonwood Stake. Elaine B. Curtis is president of Holladay Stake Relief Society. 472 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 Nose Photograph submitted by Jenna Vee Hall GOODING STAKE (IDAHO), JEROME SECOND WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 9, 1956 Jenna Vee Hall, President, Gooding Stake Relief Society, reports the success and happiness occasioned by this delightful party: "A turkey dinner was served to 175 members of the ward. 'The tables were decorated in the Relief Society colors, blue and gold. 'The centerpiece depicted the various departments of Relief Society by means of dolls carrying articles representative of the different activities. Each separate doll was attached to a center doll by white nbbons. 'The center doll represented Relief Society, with the motto: 'Charity Never Faileth.' Daffodils in blue vases were also used. Special guests were the Gooding Stake presidency and their wives and the husbands of the stake Relief Society presidency. 'These guests are seated at the head table. The party created a good feeling among the ward members and the sisters felt that their time was well spent in making preparations for the occasion. Officers of the Jerome Second Ward Relief Society are: Idella Walker, President; Virgie Packer, First Counselor; LaVerl Johnson, Second Counselor; Eva Johnson, Secretary." Photograph submitted by Fern Horton SANTAQUIN-TINTIC STAKE (UTAH), EUREKA WARD ANNIVERSARY PARTY, March 17, 1956 Front row, seated, left to right: Grace Atherley, work meeting leader; 'Trina Peterson; Mildred Garrity; Ruby Robinson; Alice Jamison; Elna C. Bird, First Counselor, NOTES FROM THE FIELD 473 Marene Bird; Ella H. Sandstrom, President; Beatrice Boss, Second Counselor; Ruby Bigler, Secretary-Treasurer; Hilda Webb; Sarah Sanderson. Second row, standing, left to right: Sylvia Childs; Erma Gourley; Mildred Kay, literature class leader; Janet Lee; Rhoda Bell, visiting teacher message leader; Margaret Brady, program chairman; Grace Chatwin, theology class leader; Ada Cherry; Maude Scofield; Mathena Dalton; Stella Jones; Clara Garbett; Kate Elliott. Third row, standing, left to right: Pearl Forsey; Elva Webb; Valene Livingston; Kate Ames; Mayme Wirthlin, chorister; Mary Garbett, organist; Celestia 'Thompson; Nellie Laird; LaRue Fox; Genevieve Sanderson. Fourth row, standing, left to right: Alice Daniels; Delores Robinson, Magazine representative; Blanche Beck; Joan Dale, social science class leader; Donna Paxman, bazaar chairman. Fern Horton is president of Santaquin-Tintic Stake Relief Society. Wow? Jake mi msi Photograph submitted by Ione J. Simpson SOUTH IDAHO FALLS STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT SPRING CONCERT "MELODIES AND MODES," March 29, 1956 Front row, seated, beginning sixth from the left: Sara Ker, stake organist; Florine Berntson, who acted as pianist for the chorus; Barbara Anderson, stake chorister; Eva Wallace, stake work meeting leader, center, back row. Ione J. Simpson, President, South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "Sharing honors with the Singing Mothers were the ward work meeting departments under the able leadership of Eva Wallace. Results of the work of the teachers of ward sewing and tailoring classes were shown as models displayed clothing made for all occasions, the modesty of which lost nothing in style. Tables of articles made in work meetings completed the display." 474 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 Photograph submitted by Eugenia N. Logan OAHU STAKE (HAWAII) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, February 1956 Eugenia N. Logan, President, Oahu Stake Relief Society, reports that Elder Spencer W. Kimball of the Council of the Twelve, and Sister Kimball attended the con-. Ference. Sister Alene M. Young represented the general board at Relief Society convention, Sister Young stands in center front, back of the rostrum. * es a v Photograph submitted by Leora G. Clawson SEATTLE STAKE (WASHINGTON) BIRTHDAY PARTY AND REUNION March 12, 1956 Front row, seated, left to right: Mable Arnold; Media Hawkstrasser; Duckie Cornelius; Maurine Linde; Vera Leishman; Leora G. Clawson, President; Birdie Bean; Jennie Kearns; Helen Milligan; Charlotte Holman; Lucy Chabot. Back row, standing, left to right: Hazel Doble; Pearl Hoyle; Melba Westra; Chelta Brown; Lila Croshaw; Mable Udell, First Counselor; Luella Bean, Second Counselor; Clara Smith, Secretary-Treasurer; Blanch Payne; Ruby Finlayson; Elva Jackson; Leona Torney; Emily Brain. President Leora G. Clawson reports: "The Seattle Stake Relief Society Board gave a birthday and reunion luncheon March 12, 1956, honoring Jennie Kearns, Maurine Linde, and Clarine Walpole, who were resigning from the board. Special guests were Vera Leishman and Birdie Bean, former presidents of Seattle Stake Relief Society. All those who had served as stake board members since the stake was organized in 1938 were invited to attend. 'Table decorations were carried out in Relief Society colors, with dolls dressed in costumes of 1842 carrying a copy of The Times and Seasons, and dolls in modern dress carrying a copy of The Relief Society Magazine dated March 1956." Audio Visual Aids for 1956-57 Mildred B. Eyring Member, General Board of Relief Society HE value of teaching aids and the wise use of them should be understood by all Relief Society officers and teachers. To aid means to help or assist. Any device which does not clarify a lesson or project, attract and hold interest, or assist members in remembering important points, is not really an aid, and should be discarded. New workers in Relief Society, particularly, should read the articles on Audio-Visual Aids which have appeared in The Relief Society Mag- - azine in recent years: January 1953, page 27; June 1953, page 418; June 1954, page 40o; and June 1955, page 03.: The exchange of ideas for teaching aids in stake union meeting is most important. Each ward class leader can give her ideas, and, in turn, will receive many more ideas from the class leaders of the other wards. 'The stake leader will be there to give her information, wise direction, and counsel to the planning. In the stake conventions this year many suggestions are being given to stake leaders regarding visual aids for this coming year's work. These will be helpful as will be also the written material which ls being left in the stakes. Theology — "Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon" 1. Blackboard 2. A growing chart 3. A brief review chart is being left with stake leaders in the conventions. 4. Graphic chart of the records kept by Book of Mormon people, Relief Society Magazine, July 1951, PP. 476-477. | (Theology leaders might be interested in the comparative chart of events in The Book of Mormon, Bible, and world history given in the August 1955 issue of The Instructor, page 256. 'his issue may be purchased from the Deseret Sunday School Union, 50 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah.) Page 4/5 476 Visiting Teacher Messages "Book of Mormon Gems of Truth" 1. Blackboard or chart giving the quotations from 'The Book of Mormon. 2. Blackboard or chart giving the objective of the lesson. 3. Blackboard or chart giving the special points to be stressed. Literature "Shakespeare in Our Lives" 1. Blackboard. 2. Pictures in the text including the plan of a Shakespearean 'Theater (Text, Plate V). 3. Pictures from the Perry Picture Company, Malden, Massachusetts. (Send fifteen cents for their catalogue direct to the company.) 4. Some of Shakespeare's poems have been given musical settings and are available in sheet music. See June 1956 Relief Society Magazine, page 410. Some songs may be found in old song books. "Who Is Sylvia?" with music by Schubert is familiar to many. Social Science "Latter-day Saint Family Life" 1. Blackboard. 2. Pictures of the Prophet Joseph Smith, his mother, their homes in Palmyra and Nauvoo, and many others can be obtained from the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. The price is 5c each for black and white and loc each for colored pictures. 3. Pictures and information in A Centenary of Relief Society. 4. A comparative chart showing the position of women in 1842 and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 1956 is being given to stake leaders in stake conventions. 5- Ihe History of Joseph Smith by His Mother Lucy Mack Smith is a reference book for class leaders. 6. Lists of many articles published in The Relief Society Magazine are being left with stake leaders in the conventions. FXECUTIVES, choristers, organists, Magazine representatives, and work meeting leaders should also be aware of the value of good visual aids and make use of them in their work. The executives of stakes and wards are being given suggestions in the conventions for visual aids in publicizing the March and November Fast Sunday night meetings. Visual aids can also be used to improve membership and attendance. Magazine representatives are urged to make use of attractive posters and charts to stimulate interest in their work. Work meeting leaders can make their plans known to members by the use of informative, attractive posters. Music leaders will find material in the text, Fundamentals of Conducting, by J. Spencer Cornwall, which can be used as visual aids in their department. Also much of the work in Sister Madsen's lessons in The Relief Society Magazine, 1950-51 and 1951-52, can be made more effective by good visual aids devised by stake and ward music leaders. The general board again urges leaders in all departments to make the best possible use of audio-visual aids in carrying out their various assignments. Sheology—Characters and Teachings of The Book of Mormon Lesson 41—Jesus Instructs the Nephites Elder Leland H. Monson (Text: The Book of Mormon: 3 Nephi, chapters 15-21) For Tuesday, October 2, 1956 Objective: To show the great compassion of Jesus toward the Nephites who manifested such great faith in him, and his love for children. WHEN Jesus appeared to the Nephites, God, the Eternal Father introduced him as his Son ".. In whom I am_ well pleased..." (3 Nephi 11:7). For the Nephites and for us this reestablishes and reaffirms the divinity of Christ. As a God, not merely as a great moral teacher, he gave to the Nephites the Sermon on the Mount, which we studied last year. In this lesson we turn to other instructions which this divine Being, Christ our Redeemer, gave to the Nephites. The Law of Moses Superseded Christ told the Nephites that he had given to ancient Israel the Law of Moses and that now the law was fulfilled. He said, " I have come to fulfil the law; therefore it hath an end" (3 Nephi 15:5). He asked that they live the new law which he had and would give unto them. "Behold," he said, "I am the law, and the light. Look unto me and endure to the end, and ye shall live " (3 Nephi 15:9). The Sheep of Another Fold Jesus then told the Nephites that they, and the other lost tribes of Israel, had been separated from those at Jerusalem because of the iniquity that existed among the Jews. He informed them that they were the sheep of another fold that he mentioned to the Jews. And verily I say unto you, that ye are they of whom I said: Other sheep I have which are not of this fold; them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd (3 Nephi 15:21). He further told them that there was still another fold that should hear him (See 3 Nephi 16:1-3); and announced that he was going to visit them. (See 3 Nephi 17:4.) Jesus instructed the Nephites: And I command you that ye shall write these sayings after I am gone, that if it so be that my people at Jerusalem, they who have seen me and been with me in my ministry, do not ask the Father in my name, that they may receive a knowledge of you by the Holy Ghost, and also of the other tribes whom they know not of, that these sayings which ye shall write shall be kept and shall be manifested unto the Gentiles, that through the fulness of the Gentiles, the remnant of their seed, who shall be scattered forth upon the face of the earth because of their unbelief, may be brought in, or may be brought to a knowledge of me, their Redeemer. And then will I gather them in from the four quarters of the earth; and then Page 477 478 will I fulfill the covenant which the Father hath made unto all the people of the house of Israel. And blessed are the Gentiles, because of their belief in me, in and of the Holy Ghost, which witnesses unto them of me and of the Father. Behold, because of their belief in me, saith the Father, and because of the unbelief of you, O house of Israel, in the latter day shall the truth come unto the Gentiles, that the fulness of these things shall be made known unto them (3 Nephi 16:4-7). Jesus also said that the land was given to the Nephites, the seed of Joseph, for their inheritance: Verily, verily, I say unto you, thus hath the Father commanded: me — that I should give unto this people this land for their inheritance (3 Nephi 16:16). The Savior then perceived that the people were weak and could not understand all the words which the Father had commanded him to speak to them at that time, so he counseled them to go to their homes and "... Ponder upon the things which I have said, and ask of the Father, in my name, that ye may understand " (3 Nephi 17:3). Jesus then said he must go to his Father and also to show himself to the lost tribes of Israel, but as he looked at the multitude, he saw they were in tears and their eyes seemed to implore him to stay with them a little longer. Healing of the Sick The Savior spoke, "... Behold, my bowels are filled with compassion towards you" (3 Nephi 17:6), and he instructed them to bring any sick, lame, blind, halt, maimed, or otherwise afflicted to him. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 And it came to pass that when he had thus spoken, all the multitude, with one accord, did go forth with their sick and their afflicted, and their lame, and with their blind, and with their dumb, and with all them that were afflicted in any manner and he did heal them every one as they were brought forth unto him. And they did all, both they who had been healed and they who were whole, bow down at his feet, and did worshi him; and as many as could come for the multitude did kiss his feet, insomuch that they did bathe his feet with their tears (3 Nephi 17:9-10). Jesus then commanded them to bring their little children. He stood in the midst of them and commanded the multitude to kneel and he prayed mightily to the Father:.. And the things which he prayed cannot be written, and the multitude did bear record who heard him. And after this manner do they bear record: The eye hath never seen, neither hath the ear heard, before, so great and marvelous things as we saw and _ heard Jesus speak unto the Father; And no tongue can speak, neither can there be written by any man, neither can the hearts of men conceive so great and marvelous things as we both saw and heard Jesus speak; and no one can conceive of the joy which filled our souls at the time we heard him pray for us unto the Father (3 Nephi 17:15-17). Blessing Little Children The two thousand five hundred people who were assembled were overjoyed. When Jesus: witnessed their great faith he told them his joy was full. As he spoke to them he wept, and "... Took their little children, one by one, and blessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them. And when he had done LESSON DEPARTMENT this he. Wept. Again" (3 Nephi 17:21-22). 'The Savior then asked the multitude to look at their. Little ones, and, as they looked, angels came down, and encircled the little children, and ministered unto them. Institution of Sacrament Jesus instituted the ordinance of the sacrament among the Nephites. The disciples were told that they must partake of the sacrament in remembrance of Christ's body and blood that it should be a testimony unto the Father that they would always remember him. 'They were promised that if they would do this, his spirit would always be with them, and that it would show their willingness to do that which Jesus had commanded them. Jesus instructed the Nephites to pray always, saying: ye must watch and pray always lest ye enter into temptation for Satan desireth to have you, that he may sift you as wheat (3 Nephi 18:18). And as I have prayed among you even so shall ye pray in my church, among my people who do repent, and are baptized in my name. Behold I am the light; I have set an example for you (3 Nephi 18:16). He instructed the disciples further that if a man is unworthy to partake of the sacrament he should be forbidden. However, he should not be cast out from among them, but be ministered to by them and be prayed for. 'Then, if he repents and is baptized, he should be received by them and be given the sacrament. If a man would not repent they were still to continue to minister to him in case he might return and. Repent. Which, if he 479 did, and came to the Savior with full purpose of heart, the Savior would heal him and the people would be the means of bringing salvation to him. (See 3 Nephi 18: 28-32. ) _ Jesus then " touched with his hand.." (3 Nephi 18:36) the twelve disciples, giving them power to bestow the Holy Ghost. He then departed from them and ascended into heaven. Bestowal of Holy Ghost Word soon spread among the people that Jesus would appear on the next day. On that day, the twelve disciples appeared before the assembled group. 'The assembly was so large that it was divided into twelve groups, over each one of which a disciple presided. The disciples prayed that the Holy Ghost should be given unto them. '"... Nephi went down into the water and was baptized And he baptized all those whom Jesus had chosen" (3 Nephi 19:11-12). When they came up out of the water "... The Holy Ghost did fall upon them..." (3 Nephi 19:13). Angels came down and ministered to the disciples. While this was taking place "... Jesus came and stood in the midst and ministered unto them" (3 Nephi 19:15). Jesus went a short distance and prayed as follows: Father, I thank thee that thou hast given the Holy Ghost unto these whom I have chosen; and it is because of their belief in me that I have chosen them out of the world.. Father, I pray thee that thou wilt give the Holy Ghost unto all them that shall believe in their words, 480 Father, thou hast given them the Holy Ghost because they believe in me; and thou seest that they believe in me because thou hearest them, and they pray unto me; and they pray unto me _ because I am with them. And now Father, I pray unto thee for them, and also for all those who shall believe on their words, that they may believe in me, that I may be in them as thou, Father, art in me, that we may be one (3 Nephi 19:20-23). After Jesus had finished praying, he commended the disciples on their faith, saying:... So great faith have I never seen among all the Jews; wherefore I could not show unto them so great miracles, because of their unbelief.... There are none of them that have seen so great things as ye have seen; neither have they heard so great things as ye have heard (3 Nephi 19:35-36). Jesus then commanded the multitude and the disciples to arise and cease praying, but he admonished them to pray always in their hearts. Jesus miraculously provided the sacrament and:... He brake bread again and blessed it, and gave to the disciples to eat. And when they had eaten he commanded them that they should break bread, and give unto the multitude... He also gave them wine to drink... (3 Nephi 20:3-5). The Gospel in the Latter Days The Savior advised the Nephites that in the latter days the gospel should be preached to the Jews and that they would accept it. "Then," he said, "will the Father gather them together again, and give unto them Jerusalem for the land of their inheritance" (3 Nephi 20:33). Given this RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 That the people of the latter days might be. Fully aware of the time when these events would occur, Jesus gave the Nephites the sign of the Father's work. "... This is the thing which I will give unto you for a sign," he said, "for verily I say unto you that when these things which I declare unto you, and which I shall declare unto you hereafter of myself, and by the power of the Holy Ghost which shall be given unto you of the Father, shall be made known unto the Gentiles that they may know concerning... This my people who shall be scattered by them... It shall be a sign unto them, that they may know that the work of the Father hath already commenced unto the fulfilling of the covenant which he hath made unto the people who are of the house of Israel" (3 Nephi 21:2, 7). Jesus further told the Nephites that a great work should be accomplished at that time and that there would be many who would not believe it "... Although a man shall declare it unto them" (3 Nephi 21:9). Concerning the Gentiles in that day, Jesus said: "Yea, wo be unto the Gentiles except they repent..." (3 Nephi 21:14). On the other hand, he pointed out, if they would repent and "... Hearken unto my words..." he would establish his church among them:. And they shall come in unto the covenant and be numbered among this the remnant of Jacob, unto whom I have land for their inheritance (3 Nephi 21:22). Jesus was deeply concerned over the Gentiles and the Jews of the last days when the record of the Ne- LESSON DEPARTMENT phites should come forth amongst them. He stressed the importance of the sacrament in the lives of the Nephites, informing them that it would help them to remember him, that it would be a witness unto the Father that they did remember him. He also was grateful unto his Father that the disciples had been given the Holy Ghost as a companion. 'The Savior's emphasis upon the sacrament and upon the bestowal of the Holy Ghost, indicates the great importance of these ordinances. Sometimes, however, partaking of the sacrament becomes so routine in our lives that we do not derive the full benefit from it. Only as we live worthily and meditate upon the meaning of the sacrifice of the Savior and the covenants we 481 take, can we get the full blessing that accompanies proper participation. After we have been baptized and confirmed and have received the Holy Ghost, we must continue to be faithful, to live the gospel, if we are to have the Holy Ghost and its influence to direct our lives. Questions on the Lesson 1. What miracles did Jesus perform among the Nephites? 2. What did Jesus say about the latterday Gentiles? 3. What did he say about the latterday Jews? 4. Discuss the importance of the ordinance of the sacrament. 5. Discuss the significance and blessings attached to the bestowal of the Holy Ghost. Visiting Seacher ITlessages— Book of Mormon Gems of Truth Lesson 41—"Yea, Wo Unto Him That Shall Deny the Revelations of the Lord and That Shall Say the Lord No Longer Worketh by Revelation..." (3 Nephi 29:6). Leone O. Jacobs For Tuesday, October 2, 1956 Objective: To show that faith in continuous revelation is essential to a testimony of the truth of the gospel. CONTINUOUS revelation is the foundation stone upon which The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is built. It was also by means of this principle that the Church was restored in these latter days. When the Father and the Son appeared to Joseph Smith in 1820 that principle was reaffirmed in modern times. Many people discount divine revelation entirely, saying such belief is purely mythical, that the scriptures are only unproved tradition. Others say that revelation is no longer necessary, that God gave all the instructions needed for the welfare of mankind, in ancient days. But Latter-day Saints "... Believe all that God has revealed, all that He does now reveal, and we believe that He will yet reveal many great 482 and important things pertaining to the Kingdom of God" (gth Article of Faith). There are certain fundamental principles and commandments in the scriptures which apply to all ages. Other revelations may apply only to particular circumstances. It was necessary, for example, for the Lord to instruct Moses day by day, in the flight of the children of Israel from Egypt. 'The resurrected Christ told the Nephites: Behold, I say unto you that the law is fulfilled that was given unto Moses. Behold, I am he that gave the law, and I am he who covenanted with my people Israel; therefore, the law in me is fulfilled, for I have come to fulfil the law; therefore it hath an end (3 Nephi 15:45). Brigham Young was given revelation concerning the westward march of the saints to the Rocky Mountains, etc. Guidance is defnitely needed from God in all ages and for different circumstances. It would seem inconsistent for anyone who believes in the Bible to reject the principle of continuous revelation, for surely a just and loving God, who is "the same yesterRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 day, today and forever" would not reveal his will to Noah, to Abraham, to Moses and others, yet leave later generations without contact. Many people inquire, "Do the Authorities of the Church receive revelations today?" Certainly they do. Revelations are received currently for the welfare of the Church as a whole. Because they do not appear in book form as do those in the Doctrine and Covenants, for example, does not mean they are any less important or authoritative. In a recent address on the subject of revelation President Stephen L Richards stated:... The secret of life is to. Build on the old, the tried and the true. Now revelation is the foundation. I know of nothing else so solid and dependable « Revelation has generally come to us through the prophets, although the greatest and most important of all revelation came directly from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Eternal God.... Modern day scripture or revelation has the same validity with even more direct proof of authenticity than does ancient scripture. Both emanate from the same source. We know the right through revelation.. So, my brethren and sisters, learn the revelations and live by them. They are true. (Deseret News, Church Section, July oe 1955, pp. 2-3). Vork Tleeting— Food Preparation and Service (A Course Recommended for Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Lesson 1—Lunches and Sandwiches Rhea H. Gardner For Tuesday, October 9, 1956 HEN one meal a day must be carried to work in a lunch box, the homemaker has a real challenge to meet, for into that lunch box must go foods that will provide a fair share of the day's needs and be so inviting, satisfying, and healthful, that the worker or LESSON DEPARTMENT school child will keep physically and mentally fit. Whatever the packed lunch lacks in providing a third of the day's nutritional needs should be met in the other two meals. With the use of thermos jars, in which can be carried warm soups, stews, or other main dish foods or _refrigeratorchilled beverages, the task of preparing a tasty and well-balanced packed lunch meal is greatly simplihed. With the improved food wrappings one is now able to include in the packed lunch crisp strips of salad-type vegetables, with the assurance that they will stay refrigerator crisp until eaten. Glass jars or colorful plastic containers with tight-fitting lids—in which can be carried well-chilled fruit, baked custard, or other desserts, are a further help in giving the meals you pack, the same high rating as your other meals. Because sandwiches are so often a mainstay in the lunch box, it is especially important that they be prepared with care, imagination, and a thought of what they will taste like three to five hours after they are prepared. The imaginative sandwich maker today keeps her sandwiches right at the top in appetite appeal. In addition to enriched white and whole wheat, she also uses raisin, bran, French, rye, and nut breads for variety. She uses a wide variety of sandwich fillings and tries always to include two different kinds of sandwiches in each lunch box meal. She combines ingredients for sandwich fillings with a thought for Note: See ' Magazine and "Packed Lunch Suggestions," zine, October 1952, page 669. 483 contrast in flavor, color, and texture. Bland fillings are sharpened with lemon, custard, ketchup, sauces, and pickles. Crunchiness is added by crisp bacon, nuts, cucumber, celery, carrots, or shredded cabbage. Fillings which lack color are enlivened with chopped pickle, pimiento, olives, sweet peppers, or parsley. The — skilled sandwich maker creams, but never melts, the butter she uses; then spreads it out to the very edges of both slices. She is generous with sandwich fillings, making them as thick as one slice of bread. Each sandwich is neatly and securely wrapped to prevent drying out of the bread. She wraps clean, crisp lettuce leaves in waxed paper to be added to the sandwich just before it is eaten. She includes in every lunch an element of surprise — some fresh fruit, a piece of favorite cake, candy, cookies, or other dessert. In many instances, the home freezer is the sandwich maket's best friend. A variety of sandwiches can be prepared and kept in the freezer for two or three weeks, but no longer. Frozen sandwiches wrapped two to a package in moisture-vapor proof wrappings, not waxed paper, thaw in about three hours and are still refrigerator cool. They should be eaten soon after thawing, however, since frozen food deteriorates quickly after thawing. Whether the packed lunch is to serve aS a main meal for a working man, for a school child, or for a dainty refreshment at a social function, it deserves all the care and interest you can give it both for your sake and the one who will eat it. 'Sandwiches," by Rhea H. Gardner, page 456, in this issue of the by Hazel Stevens, The Relief Society Maga- oLiterature—Shakespeate in Our Lives Lesson 1—Why Shakespeare? Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: Shakespeare Major Plays and the Sonnets, by G. B. Harrison, Harcourt, Brace & Company, 1948) For Tuesday, October 16, 1956 Objective: To understand the reasons for Shakespeare's greatness and appreciate his contribution to our lives. Thyself and thy belongings Are not thine own so proper as to waste Thyself upon thy virtues, they on thee. Heaven doth with us as we with torches do, Not light them for themselves; for if our virtues Did not go forth of us, 'twere all alike As if we had them not ERE English literature to be compared to the universe, Shakespeare would be the sun, about which all others circle to feel the warming influence of its outstanding glow. To bask in Shakespeare's life-giving zest and gusto, to be quickened by the sheer cleanness and precision of his words, to be awed by his wisdom and justice as he shares with us his probings deep into the human heart and the mysteries of mortality — in these realms of highest adventure Shakespeare is our supreme guide and spokesman, and has been for centuries. 'Time has proved him moral and true; his virtues reveal him as brilliant and just; his selfless humility proclaims him worthy of the sustained love of mankind. None of our writers has received more love or deserved more, than he. Love cannot be commanded or forced, it must be earned, usually by giving oneself to others. Shakespeare has given himself to others so abundantly that rarely are we Page 484 Measure for Measure, I. 1.30-36 fully aware of our debt. For centuries he has been the most widely quoted man in our culture, surpassed only by the Bible. Actually he constantly places more words in our mouths than any of us realize. "Brevity is the soul of wit" (to quote Shakespeare), and well-turned phrases are so rare because so few mortals have ever been able to put the nub of the matter into a few memorable words. Best proof that Shakespeare is the master phrasemaker of the language is to cite a few of his contributions to our everyday language which after centuries still survive. For how many of the following have you ever expressed gratitude to Shakespeare? There's something in the wind (Comedy of Errors); play fast and loose, out of the question (Love's Labour's Lost); single blessedness, the course of true love never runs smooth (Midsummer Night's Dream); halcyon days (I Henry VI); paint the lily, elbow room, cold comfort (King John); what's in a name? A fool's paradise (Romeo and Juliet); my own flesh and blood, it's a wise father that knows LESSON DEPARTMENT his own child (Merchant of Venice); merry as the day is long (Much Ado About Nothing); too much of a good thing (As You Like It); he has eaten me out of house and home (II Henry IV); give the devil his due, tell the truth and shame the devil, hearts of gold, the better part of valor is discretion (I Henry IV); wear my heart on my sleeve, a green-eyed monster, a foregone conclusion, who steals my purse steals trash, loved not wisely but too well, the seamy side of life (Othello); a lean and hungry look, an itching palm, it was Greek to me, a dish fit for the gods (Julius Caesar); flaming youth, in my mind's eye, the glass of fashion, as easy as lying, cudgel thy brains, the primrose path, it smells to heaven, something rotten in Denmark, method in his madness, every dog will have his day (Hamlet); every inch a king, the wheel is come full circle, more sinned against than sinning (King Lear). Merely because these now common expressions are Shakespeare's is not to justify them. Instead let us say that, while all of us use them today, essentially they are his, and are included here solely to illustrate the fecundity of his verbal powers. Actually we should ignore these "old saws" and invent our own. Would that we could! Would we were Shakespeare! Attempts to Know Shakespeare From 1623, when the First Folio edition of Shakespeare's plays appeared, up to the present, at least 120 men have dedicated their mature years to editing Shakespeare's works, criticizing the texts, relating his plays to their sources, determining the order in which the plays were written, etc. The first ShakeSpeare societies appeared early in the nineteenth century; today they are everywhere. Special Shakespeare collections are prized possessions of the wealthiest, largest li- 485 braries in England and the United States; in the United States, the largest and most famous is the Folger Library in Washington, D. C., an entire institution dedicated to Shakespearean scholarship. So thoroughly has Shakespeare been counted, compared, explained, analyzed, paraphrased, quoted, searched by X-ray and ultraviolet light that no one can doubt his greatness, since he has survived this deluge triumphant. When many of our best minds for centuries have dedicated their lives to him, what remains for us to do or claim to do? J. W. Mackail gives us the only sane and true answer: The best approach to Shakespeare is to read him. It is easy, and common, to read too much about him (Approach to Shakespeare, page 5). To be known, then, Shakespeare must be read and heard. Yes, we possess him in some degree, since it is impossible for a literate, attentive person in our society to escape hearing him being constantly quoted. We have studied him at school in our youth, and, occasionally, we may have read him for our own pleasure during maturity. All members of our western culture beyond eatly childhood know of Shakespeare, in varying degree; not quite as many know him. Many of us feel that we would like to know him "if we just had the time." On a more mature level, let us grant the fact that all of us have time for what we most enjoy. Inasmuch as we now have time to enjoy Shakespeare — the next two years of the literature lessons have been dedicated to introducing him — our immediate challenge is to convince ourselves 486 that he yields a rich enjoyment which eminently deserves our attention, our effort, and, most precious, our time. The more we read Shakespeare the more each of us, no matter who we are or whatever our background, must come to realize that in every page of Shakespeare there is joy and truth and insight which will immediately enrich our day-to-day existence, if only we will be among those who will give him ear. If we will each day share with ourselves and our families only one or two of his great thoughts or piercing insights into human frailty, then we will understand as never before why his audience constantly increases in size and loyalty. Why Study Shakespeare? One reason may be that time has proved his greatness, has proved his visions and values to be true. If we study him as the greatest dramatist, because some of our greatest critics have so proclaimed, we know we shall not be wasting our precious time and effort. But, valid and popular as this approach may be, in part it robs us of the privilege and pain of making our own judgments. Let us ask ourselves the following questions: Why have millions of people read Shakespeare of their own choice, and attended his plays? How has he fed the timeless, basic hungers of multitudes of people, from all walks of life? How can anything more than three hundred years old be considered great in our modern, scientific, efficient world? Word Magic As we have already seen, Shakespeare's words give such pleasure that many of his phrases have beRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 come part of our living language. The longer we read him the more we marvel at the aptness and cunning of his words. 'The fecundity of his imagination seems inexhaustible. Sometimes we even come to feel that his ability to portray a soul, or catch an essence of place or mood solely through words reveals almost supernatural powers. 'To witness such word dexterity makes us more humbly aware of man's infinite though mortal capabilities. As an example, consider his effortless skill in using the commonest household incidents to reveal the deeper, hidden truths within us which are often felt but seldom expressed. How very apt is his comparing the spilling of concealed guilt with one's attempt to carry a pan brimful: So full of artless jealousy is guilt, It spills itself in fearing to be spilt. Hamlet, IV. 5.19 Such a comparison provokes us into deep thought, itself its own delight, since it frees us from our constant, exclusive concern with the surface trivia of life. If he wishes us to experience the turmoil of human suffering, his words bring us the aged King Lear wandering afield during storm, neatly grief-crazed over the treachery and selfishness of his daughter:... Tears his white hair, Which the impetuous blasts, with eyeless rage, Catch in their fury, and make nothing of; Strives in his little world of man to outscorn The to-and-fro-conflicting wind and rain. King Lear HI. 7-11 In other passages Shakespeare is less violent, really gentle and warm, ' LESSON DEPARTMENT 487 A Perry Picture STRATFORD-ON-AVON — THE HOME OF SHAKESPEARE when it suits his purpose to be so. For example, to be "... As vigilant as a cat to steal cream" (I Henry IV, IV.2.65) brings almost a smile to our faces. Since a cat has no moral standards, Shakespeare _ reminds us pertinently of this part of the cat's basic nature, while vigilance is a qualifying word of sufficient mildness to merit so warm and domestic a comparison. Self-Revelation One of Shakespeare's most substantial rewards is that, more forcefully and intensely than any other writer, he reveals us to ourselves; he "holds the mirror up to nature" and helps us see ourselves as we really are. 'This he can do because he "has the most comprehensive soul," the most searching eye, the sharpest pen. Although he does not provide Copyright 1902 all the answers, he uses the method of poetry and art — intuition, insight, metaphor, rhythm, subtlety — to help us see all things as they really are. Probably his supreme gift is his intense zest for life, possible only if preceded by a probing, recording curiosity about everything in life: nature, society, ourselves, our God. Because Shakespeare felt this straining tug of his own monstrous curiosity and obeyed it, he feels and thus soothes our own. Seeing truth in his created world, we can then better see it revealed in ourselves. As William Hazlitt has observed: Every single character in Shakespeare is as much an individual as those in life itself.... His characters are real beings of flesh and blood How well indeed we come to 488 know more of ourselves from the following random quotes: He jests at scars that never felt a wound. Romeo and Juliet, II.2 How sharper than a serpent's tooth it is To have a thankless child!... King Lear, I, 4 That which in mean men we entitle patience Is pale cold cowardice in noble breasts. Richard II, 1, 2- Smooth runs the water where the brook is deep; Henry VI, III, I I had most need of blessing, and "Amen" Stuck in my throat. Macbeth, II, 2 Thus conscience does make cowards of us all, And thus the native hue of resolution Is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought, Hamlet, III, 1 The Prince of Darkness is a gentleman. King Lear, III, 4 No, 'tis slander; Whose edge is sharper than the sword; whose tongue Outvenoms all the worms of Nile; whose breath Rides on the posting winds, and doth belie All corners of the world: kings, queens, and states, Maids, matrons, nay, the secrets of the grave This viperous slander enters. Cymbeline, III, 4 True Morality How beautifully reassuring it ls that our heritage has chosen for its supreme spokesman William Shakespeare, a man so intelligent and sensitive, so aware of every phase of humankind, so unbiased and sympathetic in his depiction of things as they are, so strong and gentle and wholesome, in a word, so comprehensive and universal. How many other candidates we RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 have had for the office of Greatest English Poet, writers sometimes partially blind to the goodness of man and nature, writers calloused by cynicism and despair, or writers who refuse to face life's great spiritual and moral problems but would rather escape in glib shallowness or frivolity or sensation! For how many have illicit love and adultery been cause for jest; how many have seen cruelty and pride and hypocrisy and yielding to animal desire and faithless self-interest, as the inevitable state of man. But Shakespeare is none of these. As Coleridge has seen in all his wisdom: Shakespeare has no innocent adulteries.. No virtuous vice; he never renders that amiable which religion and reason alike teach us to detest; or clothe impurity in the garb of virtue. Shakespeare's characters depict the basic truths of mortality and immortality in and of themselves, without seeming to be pious, sanctimonious, or "preachy." His truths never seem "'tacked-on," or sugarcoated moralizing pills slipped down our throats when he has popped our mouths open; instead, his truths are the very essence of things as they are. Because he is excited by all phases of life, he discusses everything, and holds nothing back. Because he has vowed to hold the mirror up to all of nature he presents every human evil and weakness, but his greatness is that, without posting little moralizing signposts (which would weaken and mar his larger effect), he subtly suggests to us that what he speaks of as evil is evil. For example, when anyone mentions the word luxury but leaves LESSON DEPARTMENT it untagged, without any slanting adjectives, how are we to know whether that person regards luxury as good or bad? But when Shakespeare personifies luxury as "the devil luxury, with his fat rump and potato finger" (Troilus and Cressida, V.2.55), it is difficult for us to refrain from identifying so vigorous an image not only with the immediate character who speaks it, but with Shakespeare's own opinion. To define this as his over-all attitude toward luxury seems further justified when we find him speaking elsewhere of luxury in similar tone; for example, in The Merry Wives of Windsor, Falstaff is caught and chided by the fairies in his attempt to steal a man's wife: Fie on sinful fantasy! Fie on lust and luxury! Lust is but a bloody fire, Kindled with unchaste desire, Fed in heart, whose flames aspire, As thoughts do blow them, higher. V.5.97-102 Again, after reading the following (II.3.153-171) on pride, a revealing aside from 'Troilus and Cressida, how much more subtle and personal does Shakespeare make pride than if he had merely tacked on the wall such a proverb as, "Pride goeth before destruction," a widespread custom in Elizabethan homes. Ajax and Agamemnon have been lamenting Achilles' pride. Note particularly the cunning Shakespeare employs to tell us that Ajax is a proud man, and about as awkward in selfanalysis as the rest of us. Speaking of Achilles, Ajax says, "Is he so much? Do you not think, he thinks himself a better man than I am?" 489 Agam. No question. Ajax. Will you subscribe this thought and say he is? Agam. No, noble Ajax. You are as strong, as valiant, as wise, no less noble, much more gentle, and altogether more tractable. Ajax. Why should a man be proud? How doth pride grow? I know not what pride is. Agam. Your mind's the clearer, Ajax, and your virtues the fairer. He that is proud eats up himself. Pride is his own glass, his own trumpet, his own chronicle, and whatever praises itself but in the deed devours the deed in the praise. Ajax. I do hate a proud man as I hate the engendering of toads. Nestor. (aside) And yet he loves himself. Is it not strange? How superbly Shakespeare's tone herein accomplishes what might well have been his two objectives: first, to give a body or form to his own emotional attitude toward pride; and second, by Ajax's smugness ("How doth pride grow?'') and by Ajax's own vigorous image of pride ("as I hate the engendering of toads'') to illustrate in Ajax the very quality which he condemns. Shakespeare subtly forces us to realize that pride is not a vice which occurs only in others. He does not strongly denounce it in Ajax, as Ajax resembles the rest of us. And Shakespeare seems to say, "Inasmuch as we are all in this business of life together, let us then act as brothers, and tolerate each other in our human weaknesses." Shakespeare has been many things to many peoples; so he must be to each of us. But whatever else he may or may not be, read him, that he may then be allowed to remind you that all men become brothers when, in compassion, they share 490 the great binding experiences of life: pain, sorrow, laughter, death. It is in these tender times that all men shrug off their surface badges of distinction and understand one another, and this great unifying truth does not come to an end with the termination of either mortality or death. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 Thoughts for Discussion 1. Has Shakespeare endured time's onslaughts because he is true or because he is popular? Discuss. 2. How does Shakespeare treat evil? 3. Why does Shakespeare deserve a constant rereading? 4. Should the purpose of a writer be to "hold the mirror up to nature" or should. He select and omit, to make the mirror reflect only the lovely in life? Social Science—Latter-day Saint Family Life Lesson 1—Joseph Smith's Early Home Life Elder John Farr Larson For Tuesday, October 23, 1956 Objective: To show the influence of the Prophet's early family life upon his teachings to the Latter-day Saint women. Poe Smith established a pattern, both of opportunity and of obligation, for Latter-day Saint women which has been followed and built upon by the succeeding Presidents of the Church. His teachings regarding Latter-day Saint women came as inspiration from the Lord, after long years of preparation for his calling. 'The Prophet's early family life undoubtedly played a most important role in influencing this preparation. In the life of the Prophet's mother we find exemplified the virtues which should characterize a true Latterday Saint. A glimpse into the Smith household will help us to appreciate more fully the development of the Prophet's lofty concepts regarding woman's sphere, which are to be discussed in the lessons to follow. Family Background Joseph Smith, Jr. Was born the fourth child in a family of eleven. His parents, Joseph Smith, Sr. And Lucy Mack Smith, descended from substantial New England stock, the Smiths having been "honorable farmers" and the Macks "industrious land owners." His parents were chosen to fill very important muissions in helping to establish the Church in this dispensation. The parents were well-to-do at the time of their marriage, and for a few years following, but, because of the fraud of a trusted agent, a large indebtedness was imposed upon them, which not only wiped out their entire holdings but burdened them for many years to come. T A series of misfortunes followed. 'The story of how this family moved from place to place overcoming adversity and wrestling with poverty, is one of hard work, sacrifice, relAll references in this lesson, unless otherwise noted, are from the mother of the Prophet Joseph. See History of Joseph Smith By His Mother, Lucy Mack Smith, as edited by Preston Nibley. LESSON DEPARTMENT sourcefulness, courage, and great faith. Through it all, the parents seemed sustained by a deep spirituality and absolute trust in God which had characterized their families for generations and which were readily absorbed by their children. Their trials and hardships resulted in even greater humility, strength of character, and family solidarity than they had heretofore known. The Smith children learned at an early age to be industrious and dutiful, sharing alongside their parents the responsibilities of their pioneer life. In this superior home Christian virtues were taught and_practiced.. Family prayer, Bible reading, and thoughtful meditation by the fireside were the order of the day. Kindness and consideration were their watchwords. 'The parents instructed the children in reading and writing, since they "had, in great measure, been debarred from the privilege of schools." So impressive were their evening family gatherings, that on many occasions neighbors joined to partake of their spirit. On one of these evenings, soon after the family began singing, a couple of little boys came in, and one of them stepped up to Samuel and whispered, "Mr. Smith, won't you pray pretty soon? Our mother said we must be home by eight o'clock, and we would like to hear you pray before we go" (Ibid., page 189). Often repeated in the family circle were the prophetic declarations made by members of both the Smith and the Mack families prior to this time, which were to be fulfilled by the Prophet's mission. Lucy Mack's brother, Jason Mack, had believed: 491... That by prayer and faith the gifts of the gospel, which were enjoyed by the ancient disciples of Christ, might be attained.... He was also of the opinion that God would, at some subsequent period, manifest His Power as He _ had anciently done—in signs and wonders (Ibid., page 9). One of the Smith ancestors had been impressed to say that a Prophet would be raised up within the family to perform a great work on the earth. The familiar accounts of other spiritual manifestations to family members combined to produce a spiritual sensitiveness and belief in divine power, which were undoubtedly a preparation for the family's acceptance of the Prophet's mission. Family Acceptance of the Prophet's Message The assurance that his father would accept his story was given Joseph by the Angel Moroni on the morming of September 22, 1823. This was the morning after the angel appeared to the Prophet in his bedroom to instruct him regarding the sacred record he was to translate. He was sent from the field by his father when he seemed ill. As he went home, the angel appeared and asked him why he had not told his father that which he had been commanded to tell. Joseph replied: "I was afraid my father would not believe me." 'The angel answered, "He will believe every word you say to him." And, just as the angel had predicted, his father not only believed him, but charged him to follow every instruction given him by Moroni (Ibid., page 79. See also Pearl of Great Price, Joseph Smith 2:29-50). The interest of parents in the 492 worthy activities of their children and faith in their accomplishments are real factors in attainment. The support of the Prophet by his parents, and by his brothers and sisters, stimulated him in his calling. The entire family openly received Joseph's message. In fact, they were so eager to hear more that the eldest son, Alvin, who always exhibited great anxiety over the plates, suggested they arise early, complete their work, and leave time for long evenings to listen to Joseph. 'The Prophet confided what he had been permitted to reveal, cautioning them to keep his words within the family circle. The Prophet's mother beautifully describes the family during the days which followed: From this time forth, Joseph continued to receive instructions from the Lord, and we continued to get the children together every evening for the purpose of listening while he gave us a relation of the same. I presume our family presented an aspect as singular as any that ever lived upon the face of the earth—all seated in a circle, father, mother, sons and daughters, and giving the most profound attention to a boy, eighteen years of age, who had never read the Bible through in his life: he seemed much less inclined to the perusal of books than any of the rest of our children, but far more given to meditation and deep study. We were now confirmed in the opinion that God was about to bring to light something upon which we could stay our minds, or that would give us a more perfect knowledge of the plan of salvation and the redemption of the human family. This caused us greatly to rejoice, the sweetest union and happiness _pervaded our house, and tranquility reigned in our midst. During our evening conversations, Joseph would occasionally give us some of the most amusing recitals that could be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 imagined. He would describe the ancient inhabitants of this continent, their dress, mode of traveling, and the animals upon which they rode; their cities, their buildings, with every particular; their mode of warfare; and also their religious worship. This he would do with as much ease, seemingly, as if he had spent his whole life among them (Ibid., pp. 82-83). Prophet's Dependence Upon His Parents Each child derives great strength, ability, and character from the love, advice, and close association of his parents. The Prophet Joseph Smith was no exception. He leaned heavily on the support and counsel of his parents, both before and after the organization of the Church. The bond of affection between them grew stronger as they shared the many responsibilities involved in his mission. One instance is cited to indicate that Joseph desired to include them in his joys as well as his anxieties. Upon completion of the translation of 'The Book of Mormon, Joseph asked his parents to join him at the Whitmer home. The evening was spent in reading the manuscript, and the following morning "after attending to the usual services, namely, reading, singing and praying, Joseph and Oliver Cowdery, David Whitmer, and Martin Harris, went to a nearby grove to engage in prayer, after which they were shown the plates by an angel. (See D. H. C. I, pp. 52-57.) When Joseph returned to the house, he threw himself down beside his mother and exclaimed: Father, mother, you do not know how happy I am: the Lord has now caused the plates to be shown to three more besides myself. They have seen an angel, who has testified to them, and they will have to bear witness to the truth of what LESSON DEPARTMENT I have said, for now they know for themselves, that I do not go about to deceive the people, and I feel as if I was relieved of a burden which was almost too heavy for me to bear, and it rejoices my soul, that I am not any longer to be entirely alone in the world (History of Joseph Smith By His Mother, Lucy Mack Smith, page 152). The Prophet always showed deep gratitude for the influence of his parents. 'This is shown by the following entry in his Annals made in October 1835, when the Prophet visited his father for several days, attending to him during an illness: Waited on my father again... All this day with my heart raised to God in the name of Jesus Christ, that He would restore him to health, that I might be blessed with his company and_ advice, esteeming it one of the greatest earthly blessings to be blessed with the society of parents, whose mature years and experience render them capable of administering the most wholesome advice.... We called on the Lord in mighty prayer in the name of Jesus Christ, and laid our hands on him and _ rebuked the disease. And God heard and answered our prayers — to the great joy and satisfaction of our souls. Our aged father arose and dressed himself, shouted, and praised the Lord (D. H. C. II, page 289). "Mother Smith" There were many sterling qualities in Lucy Mack Smith which endeared her to her family and the people about her. She was by nature refined, cultured, and dignified. She was kind and courteous, and, because of her sympathetic understanding, she was of great comfort as she ministered among the sick and distressed. 'The Prophet had ample opportunity to see her strong leadership in action, first in the home, then in the community, and afterwards among the women of the 493 Church, and must have felt the need for others to emulate her spirit of service and her deep spirituality. Her life was not an easy one, but at no time did she question the hand of the Lord. In fact, she seemed to have a talent for turning adversity into a blessing. At one time the entire family, except the parents, was struck with typhus fever. It was at this time that Joseph developed a leg infection and underwent a most painful operation. After these experiences, she wrote: Having passed through about a year of sickness and distress, health again returned to our family, and we most assuredly realized the blessing; and indeed, we felt to acknowledge the hand of God, more in preserving our lives through such a tremendous scene of affliction, than if we had, during this time, seen nothing but health and prosperity (History of Joseph Smith By His Mother, Lucy Mack Smith, page 58). Early in her married life, when seriously ill, she had promised the Lord if he would restore her to health, she would devote the remainder of her life to him and her family, and this she did consistently. She had great faith in the power of the Priesthood and was always ready to sustain her husband and sons in their respective Church assignments. On many occasions when the men of the household were absent, she adroitly handled intruding enemies to prevent their obtaining The Book of Mormon manuscript. Mother Smith was an effective missionary, not only by means of her good life, but in actually expounding the principles of the gospel. She spoke frequently in the 494 Sed Whisic a LADIES THREE PART CHORUSES. An Evening Prayer (SSAA) —Helmund - -. 18. Holy Lord God—Cain.18 _ If Ye Love Me, Keep My Commandments — Mad- 2) 9 a.20 GEN -..-cceclocne.--e ee.20. Lord Bless You and Keep You — Lutkin - - ---.20 Lord's Prayer—Malotte...25 Prayer For Service—Gaul.20. Teach Me, O Lord—Hamblen.2oi22-2 2eeeeeeeeeeeee eee.20. Twenty - Third Psalm — Schubert - ------- 25 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank errr rr TTT TTT TTT rrr rT TrTrrT Tre TT errr errr errr rrr ir ei rere ' DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Please send the music indicated above. (J On Approval LJ Charge [| Money Enclosed V4 Baynes Mace | | 15 Gt eet L45 NORTH UNIVERSITY, PROVO of 2860 WASHINGTON BLID. CODEN RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 Nauvoo Relief Society meetings, and seized every opportunity, when traveling, to engage a "Gentile" in conversation. Her years of experience were invaluable to the younger mothers of the Church, and they looked to her for wise counsel and sound judgment. Her capacity to love was unlimited. Not only did she shower her own children and husband with affection, but she extended the same devotion to those who married into her family; she welcomed the Phophet's wife, Emma, from the time he first brought her to the Smith home as a bride. There was always a strong affinity between them. Not every mother is called upon to be the mother of a prophet, but the challenge of establishing a righteous home life, one that will carefully develop those traits of character so well developed in the Prophet, is an incentive to Relief Society members everywhere. Every child, if properly nurtured in the home, will be better equipped to respond to calls of leadership which may come to him—whether in the Church, the community, or the nation. Supplementary References 1. "Solomon Mack and His Family'"— series by Archibald F. Bennett commencing in the September 1955 Improvement Era. (Background reading for teacher. ) 2. "Testimony Through Reading The Book of Mormon"'—Mathew Cowley, Relief Society Magazine, January 1953, page 6. 3. "Spiritualizing Our Homes''—Velma N. Simonsen, Relief Society Magazine, April 1953, page 238. 4. "Mother's Influence'"—Edith Price Backman, Relief Society Magazine, May 1954, page 284. LESSON DEPARTMENT Questions for Discussion 1. What characteristics made the Smith household a superior one? 2. How was the Prophet's family prepared for his mission? 3. Cite instances which illustrate the family's interest in Joseph's message. Why was this important? 4. Give examples of the Prophet's dependence on his parents? Of his desire to share his experiences with them? 5- How did Lucy Mack Smith influence the Prophet's teachings to Latter-day Saint women? How were his teachings affected by his early home life? << INy Prayer Irene E. Jones Dear Lord, to thee I raise my prayer, That I may always kindness share, And fill with love another's need: Dear Lord, this is my humble creed. Oh, give me daily of thy grace, To lighten every darkened place Where shadows dwell and fears abide; Be ever present at my side. Lord, whomsoever I chance to meet, Who doubting knows and fears defeat, May I have strength to strengthen him, To dry the tears his eyes bedim. Oh, give me of thy wisdom, Lord, That I may teach in sweet accord, And with thy everlasting plan, Lift nearer thee, each stricken man. In all I do, may I fulfill Thy holy mission, and instill In all who mourn, a part of me That comes, O Lord, direct from thee. Oh, give me faith and gratitude; Give unto me an attitude Like unto thine when thou didst teach; May I serve thee while serving each, 495 HISTORIC TRAIN Write for information about the HISTORIC TRAIN that will include the great PAGEANT AT THE HILL CUMORAH. HAWAII Plan on going to Hawaii this Fall. We sail on November 9, 1956, from Los Angeles, California. For Complete Details, Write or Phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Phone: EM 4-2017 COOKING ELECTRICALLY brings better food with less work ® Buy from Your Dealer Be Modern Live Electrically | UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. 496 THE WORLD'S FINEST PIANOS Mason & Hamlin The Stradivari of Pianos EVERETT Finest Toned Spinet Piano Built Cable-Nelson Finest Low Priced Piano Built ———— Obtain your November 4th music— 'Teach Me O Lord," price 20c per copy. Please order early! Beesley Music Co. Pioneer Piano People 70 S. MAIN ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH It's awaiting @ You YES there is still a tremendous amount of outstanding instruction and use awaiting you in this and other copies of the Relief Society Magazine. Your editions may be handsomely bound at the West's finest bindery and printing plant for $2.50 cloth bound and $3.50 leather bound per volume plus postage for mail orders. All mail orders must be paid in advance. Follow these postage rates if you send your order by mail: Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 35 150 to 300 miles 39 300 to 600 miles 0- 45 © 600 to 1000 miles — 00 e 54 1000 to 1400 miles 220.-0..-.64 1400 to 1800 miles 0000002.2 oe 76 Over 1800 miles _ 0 2.002000eoc eee 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1956 Herbs for Modern Cookery FENNEL (FoEnicuLum Dutce) Elizabeth Williamson WEET fennel is an annual herb, not usually included in the kitchen herb gardens, but once started it becomes an old standby, often seeding itself. Fennel needs a sunny exposure and will grow tall (two to four feet high) and feathery. It makes a pretty background in the garden. Onginally fennel came from the Mediterranean area. The Romans used it as a vegetable. 'They also dried the leaves and extracted the juice from the stalks. The juice was used for eye medicine and for stomach disorders. Fennel is still commonly used in Italian cookery. The early English used the extract in drinks supposed to make obese people lose weight and become thin. The most common American use of fennel is for a sauce to be used with boiled fish. It provides a sharp and unusual flavor. If you have never tried this herb, you will experience a new thrill in herb cookery. It is also good with white beans, salads, soups, and sauces. The dried seeds are used in seasoning pickles, cake, and cookies. The stalks are good for eating raw. ORSON PRATT PARLEY PRATT From the writings of Orson & Parley Pratt ORSON PRATT'S WORKS Compiled by Parker Pratt Robison Unfamiliar to many in this generation are these fine selections from the writings of Orson Pratt, one of the Church's first missionaries. Each article has dynamic missionary appeal and _e recalls vividly the early days of the Church, both in foreign lands and in America. $3.00 2. WRITINGS OF PARLEY P. PRATT Compiled by Parker Pratt Robison The priceless gems contained in this collection clearly explain the profound principles of the Restored Gospel, and reveal the beauty, the peace, and the joy of the Great Millennium. Cover titles are in 26 karat gold leaf. $3.00 - 44 East i. | DESERET BOOK COMPANY | 44 East South Temple | Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: A N Address Cit | | | | | | | | | l South Temple Enclosed you will find ( ) charge to my account for the following: 1 2 3 mount enclosed $ 000.00000.0.. C0 cee GUIMMOR eres nee cece aera ccoccnecncceececesnearenee he a Residents of Utah include 2% sales tax. | ee ee ete ee 3. KEY TT} THEOLOGY Parley P. Pratt First written in 1851, this valuable book offers an excellent general view of the science of theology, as gathered from revelation, history, and prophecy. It is written by one of the first missionaries of the Church, who was an authority and scholar in the field of theology. This book has converted many to _ the Church. $1.50 "Book Co. Salt Lake Cuy. -Utatt ( ) check ( ) money order Zone REX-R 5-222-7659_ you'll want plenty for those afterF Schodl snacks; and nothing goes better Berry-Good Treats with with toast in the morning. Stock up now on U and I Granulated for the early canning season. DU" J Ke! STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. Generous helpings of fresh, flavorrich berries, topped with whipped cream 28°" and Superfine Granulated U and I Sugar a treat few can resist. AND JUST PLAIN STRAWBERRIES. Or not quite "plain"; whether you like 'em with or without cream, it takes U and I Superfine Dessert Sugar to bring out the full delicious sweetness and goodness of the berries. Or you may prefer them topped with U and I Powdered. Stock up NOW! With suits coming on-the market, it's: a good time to take a look at your stock of the entire U and I Sugar family. 
