[WomansExponent | Vol11 | 1882 | March | Issue: 19 | Title: A SERMON ON CANVAS. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

		A SERMON ON CANVAS.
	One of the most eloquent sermons we have
ever experienced, and certainly one of the most
marvelous ever preached through the medium
of the painter's art, is on exhibition at the Dore
Gallery, 35, New Bond Street, London. We refer
to the mammoth painting by M. Gustave Dore,
entitled "Christ leaving the Praetorium," al-
ready celebrated in Europe and America, and
pronounced by competent critics to be the  most
wonderful production of palette and brush
which the present age can boast. It was exe
cuted in Paris, fron 1867 to 1872, but as the work
was not uninterrupted, it can scarcely be said
to have occupied that period in painting. As
a matter of fact, the time expended on it was
less than three years. It was in a forward but
unfinished state at the beginning of the Franco-
German war, and during the siege of Paris lay
carefully folded up and hidden away in the
earth, to preserve it from injury by shot and
shell or other impending casualties. At the
close of the bloody and ruinous strife it was
resurrected and brought forth from its fiery bap-
tism and burial, and, as if still further a figure
and type of the Divine character it portrays,
perfected and placed on high to elicit the won-
der and admiration of the world.
	The first, though far from most important
feature which strikes the beholder of this beau-
tiful and sublime specimen of art, is its immen-
sity. The canvas containing it is no less than
twenty feet in height by thirty in width, and
takes up one entire side of the Gallery. The 
figures covering it, of which there is a veritable 
multitude, are life size, and so strikingly life-
like, that at first sight they seem to be actually
moving about upon the canvas, thus investing
the picture with an inexpressible charm while
clothing it in all its fearful reality. The subject
is explained by the title—“Christ leaving the
Praetorium," the artist having chosen for the
theme of his masterpiece that thrilling episode
in the history of our blessed Redeemer, where
He, after being tried and condemned before
Pilate, is descending the steep stairway leading
from the Praetorium or Hall of Judgment on
His way to Golgotha, the scene of the cruci-
fixion.
	The figure of Christ, to use the language of
the writer of an excellent critique on this cele-
brated picture, "is nothing short of an inspira-

[COLUMN 2]
tion." We have never before seen a portrait of
the Savior—and we have seen many styles,
both ancient and modern—which came any 
where near suggesting, in our opinion, a correct
or consistent idea of Him who died that man
might live. All other artists, whose ideals we
have examined, in their over anxiety to make
him appear beautiful, have simply rendered
him effeminate, and in nearly all paintings
descriptive of his Passion, in order to depict the
intensity of his sufferings, have imparted to
the countenance an expression of despair and
pain as undignified as it is ordinary and repul-
sive. The e fe tures, together with the stereo-
typed corons, blazing halo or moonlight back-
ground for the head, as unsightly and unnatural
as the feathered wings given to this day by
Christian limners to their angels and immortals,
have invariably spoiled, for our taste, every
pictorial representation containing them. But
Do e, with the characteristic daring of true
genius, has departed entirely from these tradi-
tional customs and given us in this sublime
creation—the spirit of a God in the body of a
mortal man—something that we can truly feel
approaches the inimitable likeness of One who
was indeed fairer and gentler, but at the same
time mightier and more powerful than all the
sons of men. Even the time-honored scarlet
robe is dispensed with, and in its stead the god-
like form of the noble Sufferer, full of grace, of
gentleness and unassuming dignity, is arrayed
in a garment as white as the purity of Him
who wears it. The head is crowned with thorns,
from every barb of which, buried deeply in the
brow it encircles, trickles a tiny rivulet of blood,
not far enough to disfigure the heavenly beauty
of the face beneath, but enhancing its calm and
patient expression, and imparting to it such a
vivid phase of reality that instinctively our
hands go up to our own foreheads as if to re-
lieve by counter pressure the cruel anguish of
the uncomplaining Martyr whose sublime suf-
fering we behold. The hair and beard of the
Savior are of a sunny auburn, and interweaving
the tresses that fall gracefully upon his shoul-
ders, course streams of deeper scarlet from the
wounded brow above. The eye has a wonder-
ful expression. Full of anguish softened by pa-
tience, and of holy indignation kept down by a 
compassion more divine. There is no weakness
in that look. It is the face of manhood, of
Godhood in distress. No petty anger gleams
in that celestial eye, but from its wondrous
depths the soft rays of pity shed their lustre
like the stars. It is the look of a martyr going
willingly to his grave, the aspect of a King, all-
conscious of the power he could wield, but un-
willing to exercise it for his own preservation or
the punishment of his persecutors. Around
the head plays a delicate halo, so soft and sub-
dued as to be all but unnoticeable, not as if put
there by the painter's hand, but as if emanat-
ing from the face itself, or as if the cloud-
hung skies, already dark with the impending
shadows of Divine displeasure, had rifted 
sufficiently to send forth a single ray of light
on the sorrow-bowed head of the mighty Suffer-
er, and while the dove-like sign of the Holy 
Ghost descended upon him, the voice of the
Eternal Father was again heard whispering:
"This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well 
pleased."
	The Savior, for the moment, is standing
alone, freed by the repellant force of his own
majesty, from the desecrating touch of those
who are thirsting and clamoring for his blood
The broad flight of steps down which He is
slowly wending his way, is besieged on both
sides by the excited populace, frantically eager
to catch a glance at or gloat insultingly over the 
downfall of the despised Nazarene, and only 
restrained from offering violence to his person

[COLUMN 3]
by the protended spears of the Roman soldiery,
engaged in clearing the path towards Calvary.
The balconies and high places on either hand
are also filled with excited faces and swaying
forms, bent forward in attitudes of the in-
tensest interest. At the foot of the stairs are
the huge forms of the malefactors lifting up the
heavy wooden cross which is about to be placed
upon the delicate shoulders of Him who in
that shameful burden bore the sins of a fallen
world. To the left of the picture, a little way
from the bottom of the steps, pressed back by
the spear shafts of the unfeeling soldiers, and
hemmed in by the [------] crowd, appear two
female forms, one of them pale and delicate,
though very beautiful, arrayed in blue and
white, whose sad face, sinking frame, downcast
eyes and sweet and silent expression of sorrow,
touching enough to melt the heart even of a
stone and to fill the eyes of all who behold her
with tears, contrast strangely with the wild
and vehement grief of her companion, who,
throwing up her hands and uttering a despair
ing cry, sinks down upon the ground where
she is in momentary danger of being trodden
under food by the heedless and howling multi-
tude. The first is Mary, the Virgin Mother,
through whose tender soul the prophetic sword
is even now piercing, but who has braved the
agony of the ordeal and dared the danger of
the occasion, to obtain a passing farewell
glimpse of Him who is her soul's idol, the be-
loved Being to whom, but three and thirty years
before, she had given mortal birth. Her com-
panion is Mary Magdalene.
	On all sides gleam the distorted visages of the
rabble, their eyes glistening with hatred and 
their tongues uttering execrations. One can
almost hear the shouts of "Crucify him! Cruci-
fy him!" swelling up from their maddened
throats. Here and there amid the throng may
be picked out faces that suggest for their
owners members of the Apostolic Twelve, sad,
silent and non-committal, the trembling victims
of human hope and fear. More than half way
up the steps, a little in the rear and to the left of
the Savior, stands a group of three persons,
richly appareled in sacerdotal robes, with
haughtiness of mien and malignant triumph
stamped on every feature. In the foremost of 
these we recognize Caiaphas the High Priest,
and in the others, one bent with age and the
other more youthful, his no less cruel and envi-
ous kinsmen and associates-Annas and Alex-
ander.
	But there is one face, in all that motley
throng, upon which it is fearful to gaze.
Second only to that of Christ in power of attrac-
tion, though for a far different reason, and so
hideous of aspect as to send a shudder through
the soul of the spectator, what shall we say,
what can we say of the countenance of Judas,
the accursed! Half hidden by the crowd, yet
plainly conspicuous from the position he holds,
not daring to see or be seen by Him whom his
polluting kiss betrayed, wistful to fly yet power-
less to move, and feeling, notwithstanding his
concealment, that the all-searching eye of the
Master is even now reading the secret thoughts
of his heart, he stands as if riveted to the spot
by the conscious horror of his crime, glaring
gloomily askance from behind the green'sh cowl
which lends additional repulsiveness to his
features, and quailing like a coward at some in-
visible fo[-], endeavoring in vain to quiet the
pangs of conscience which are darting like poi-
soned arrows through his soul. It is indeed a 
fearful sight. The quintessence of horror and
remorse! Perdition personified! Hell in one
human countenance! Awful even to gaze at,
what must it have been to endure! As we
stand spell-bound before that terrible picture of
misery and guilt, our sympathy for the con-


demned Savior is turned into pity for the
wretch who betrayed Him. And well may he
be pitied. No man need suffer hell who looks
and feels as that man does. No wonder the
Son of God could commiserate his murderers,
and invoke the clemency of heaven upon the
ignorant, unthinking rabble who clamored for
his sacrifice. “Father forgive them, for they
know not what they do!" But for Judas the
apostate, the betrayer of his brethren, the shed-
der of innocent blood, the wi ful sinner against
light and knowledge, what remaineth for him?
Alas! nothing, nothing but that “certain fear-
ful looking for of judgment and fiery indigna-
tion” that shall devour the adversary and his
dupes. Go thy way, thou doomed and desolate
soul! Hide thy vi[-]age in the tomb where
sleep forever all hopes of thy redemption.
Thou hast betrayed the innocent blood, thou
hast sold the Lord of life unto death, and writ-
ten in a hand of fire damnation upon every 
lineament of thy existence. Go thy way, thou
scorched and blasted being, but think not to
escape thy visitation, for though thy body turn
to dust, and earth that shall curse thy name
would fain repudiate thy memory, yet thy
spirit shall live on, live on in endless torment,
where the worm that dieth not and the fire
that cannot be quenched shall inflict upon thee
the terrors of that dreadful, but for thee merit-
ed punishment, the end of which no man
knoweth.
 In the dim perspective, near the portals of
the Hall of Judgment, having the statue of
C[-]sar and an in erior view of Jerusalem in the
background, are outlined the forms of Pilate,
the Roman governor, and Herod, the tetrach
of Galilee, who “were made friends together”
that same day, the former, distinguished
through the gathering darkness by his long
red toga, appearing by his attitude and g[-]sture
to disclaim all responsibility for the tragedy
then being enacted—the “judicial murder” of
the sinle[-]s Son of God. There are various
other features, though we have mentioned the
main ones, of this remarkable creation,
which lack of time and limited space pre-
clude from notice, and which, like all the rest,
are only to b[-] appreciated by being seen.
“Christ leaving the Pr[-]torium” is a master-
piece, both of conception and execution, a ser-
mon to whose silent eloquence the dullest ear
could not listen in va[-]n. M. Dor[-] has numer-
ous paintings, all of them excellent, and many
magnificent, but the one we have attempted
to describe is undoubtedly the crowning effort
of his life, eclipsing by its sunlike splendor
the brightest of its rivals, and compelling
them to shine with the subdued radiance of
its [-]atellites.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1
