[Vol18 | January 1931 | Sequence: 21b | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field]

Notes from the Field

North Sevier Stake:
RELIEF SOCIETY workers are always interested in the report of the floral festivals of the stakes. That held in the North Sevier stake on August 20, 1930, was extremely successful. The Redmond Ward Recreation Hall was the scene of this very beautiful exhibition. It was under the direction of the president, Mrs. Melissa Crane. A program consisting of a one-act play and a musical number by the Relief Society chorus, was rendered. The judges of the floral offerings were from the Gunnison stake Relief Society, and they included experienced florists who declared that the display was of unusual merit both in variety and beauty. Cash prizes were given for the best ward displays. Salina Second ward took the first prize, the second prize went to the Redmond ward, while the third prize went to the Salina First ward. Ribbons were given for individual entries.

Following the demonstration refreshments were served by the Redmond ward Relief Society to 250 guests.

Franklin Stake:
ON August 5, 1930, in compliment to the executive officers of the Relief Society of the Preston Second ward, Franklin stake, a very splendid social was given in the ward chapel. This was an activity of the Relief Society. The hall was beautifully decorated with flowers; paper cap souvenirs were given to all the guests. The stake Relief Society presidency, the board members and the ward bishopric were in attendance. A spicy program was given which featured the great scope of Relief Society work. A little playlet called "Angel of Mercy," was presented, after which a delicious luncheon was served. Covers were laid for 80. It was the feeling of the group that the affair was a most decided success.

Alberta Stake:
FROM the far north comes a most interesting account of Relief Society activities. On Saturday, October 18, 1930, there was a demonstration of the Work and Business Day of the Alberta stake Relief Society. The Cardston Gymnasium was the scene of this very remarkable exhibition. All the wards of the stake had assisted the officers in preparing the exhibits for display, and the people of the town particularly had donated many articles for re-sale to those whose funds were insufficient to purchase the new articles. The Gymnasium walls were covered and several tables about the room, showed articles that were most tempting. The total quantity of goods that were displayed was remarkable, and offered a wonderful opportunity for scores of people who were in attendance. Not only was it a fine chance to profit by the bargains offered, but it was an excellent exhibition of the skill and the frugality that is taught through the medium of the Relief Society. One of the most interesting phases of the demonstration was the work-saving devices. At one table was shown a dressed wild duck, illustrating an easier way to clean these game birds, especially in the removal of the pin feathers that are so great a bugbear to the housewife. After plucking the large feathers off the bird, it is covered with a thin coating of hot paraffine, applied with a cloth or small brush. When this hardens it may be easily scraped off, taking with it every pin feather. Another device was to demonstrate how onions may be cut without touching them or getting the juice in the eyes and causing so much weeping. Another method was how to make a quilt in an hour's time, displacing the old-time quilting bee where 7 or 8 women call on you and spend a day of toil slaving over the quilt. Cookery too, which is always interesting to the men—if the women do it—was demonstrated, and all those fancy little things as the making of letters and designs on cakes, putting those frills on cooking, which do not really cost any more, and create so many appetizing features. Another helpful hint was how to mend socks without so much waste of time. There were a hundred ways of how to do the common little things in an uncommon way. Another very valuable feature of this was the day's program on the method of providing good reading material in the home. The Relief Society sisters are creating an exchange reading table, and have it under the direction of one of the stake board members. They take all the spare magazines, newspapers or other periodicals available from the homes where they are found in overabundance, and distribute them in the homes where the people are without good reading material. Hundreds of magazines which would otherwise be food for the furnace or the bonfire find their way to homes where children are hungry for the things printed in them. The work is just beginning, but it can be extended indefinitely if once people get behind the movement and give generously of their spare magazines. A most useful section of the demonstration was the clothing booth, where articles had been remade or cleaned and repaired, and many bargains were to be had. Altogether it was a most remarkable demonstration, covering the scope of Relief Society activities and demonstrating just what can be done when these earnest women cooperate, as they do in this forward-looking stake.

Logan Stake:
THIS picture shows a cast of characters from the Logan 11th ward, as they appeared in a pageant called "The Conversion of King Lamoni," given under the direction of the Logan Stake Relief Society. This is quite in keeping with the theological studies for this year. The pageant is taken from the Book of Mormon, the 18th and 19th chapters of Alma, and opened with soft music singing "God moves in a Mysterious Way His Wonders to Perform." The presentation was beautifully rendered in all wards of the Logan stake at the ward conferences, each ward supplying its own cast of characters. The purpose of this demonstration was to create a desire in the hearts of every soul to seek the truths that are to be found in the sacred book. A very keen interest was taken, and every performance was to crowded houses. This is certainly a very splendid demonstration of vitalizing and bringing actively before the people the magnificent messages of the Book of Mormon.