Notes to the Field The Board hopes through this department to keep in closer touch with the stake workers.

As soon as your Magazine comes, turn to this page to get the latest word from the General Board Social Work Contemplate the scope of social work—"all conscious effort to help human beings, including mass betterment as well as individual betterment"—-comes under its aegis.

It includes preventive as well as corrective work., With this in mind, one sees the many problems that may engage the Relief Society worker.

We thought a special number of our Magazine, giving the history of social service and some of the work being done among us, would be interesting and profitable to our readers.

Magazine Agents We cannot publish the honor roll promised in our letter of August 6, 1930, until more of our stakes send in the information asked for.

Kindly let us know at once what your membership was in 1930 and how many Magazines were subscribed for in your stake.

What is your membership in 1931 and how many subscriptions have you sent in for this year?

In response to our 'August 6, 1930, asking that a house to house canvass be made in the interest of Magazine subscriptions, Grant Stake Board offered a prize of ten annual subscriptions to the ward that should get the highest percentage of its members as subscribers, and five annual subscriptions to the ward that should secure second place in the contest.

Later, a third prize of five annual subscriptions was given, as one ward had made such an exceptional record in both letter of yearly and half-yearly subscriptions.

Burton ward won the first prize with this record: membership, 69, yearly subscriptions, 62, half-yearly subscriptions, 10. Whittier ward secured second prize, with 58 yearly subscribers among their membership of 65. The third prize went to Southgate ward, with a membership of 41, which secured 23 yearly subscribers and 34 half-yearly subscribers.

We congratulate Grant stake, which is the first, and at the present time, the only stake which has sent in the information asked for in our above mentioned letter.

In 1929 they had 465 subscribers, or 43% of their enrollment.

This year (1930) they have 652 subscribers, or 52% of their enrollment.

Subscription Lists Relief Society Presidents: Kindly instruct your Magazine agents to state which month to begin subscriptions with when sending in orders for the Magazine, so as to avoid duplications, as it is our custom to commence subscriptions with the current issue, unless directed otherwise.

The Eliza Roxey Snow Poem Contest The interest in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest increases from year to year.

There were 77 entries this year, eight more than for 1929. The winner of the first prize is Sarah Ahlstrom Nelson of Rexburg, Idaho, for "Abraham Lincoln." The second prize is awarded to Merling D. Clyde of Price, Utah, for "Unto the Least of These," Honorable mention is given to Claire Stewart Boyer of Salt Lake City, for "Up Past the Stars to God," Edith E. Anderson of Tremonton, Utah, for "To a Relief Society Worker,' and to Katheryn L. Clyde, Heber City, Utah, for "My Masterpiece." The judges of the contest were Dr. Sherman B. Neff, head of the English Department of the University of Utah; Mrs. Elsie Talmage Brandley, associate editor of the Improvement Era; and Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter of the General Board.

We congratulate the winners and express appreciation for the many excellent poems that were submitted.

Give Alloted Time to Class Leaders The success of our meetings, as well as our educational program, depends upon the efficiency of our Class Leaders.

When these faithful women spend hours, often days, preparing their topics, it is discouraging to have the lesson period shortened.

Reports frequently reach the General Board that Class Leaders are curtailed in the time for giving lessons.

One capable, enthusiastic sister prepared a Theology Lesson, expecting to have forty-five minutes for the presentation.

Meeting began a few minutes late, full fifteen minutes were used in singing practice; a Stake Board member in attendance was asked to speak, and twenty-five minutes time was reserved for testimony bearing, leaving far too short a period for the Theology Lesson with its vital and inspiring message.

The General Board recommends that announcements be made when the meeting is called to order; that as far as possible the business of the Society such as receiving new members etc. Be transacted in Work and Business Meeting; that there be no singing practice on Theology and Testimony day.

We hope our Presidents will carefully plan their meetings and not permit anything to interfere with the time allotted to our Class Leaders.

Music in Our Organization Choristers and Organists, how are you succeeding with the music in your organization?

Is it representative of your ideals?

Are you using successfully the ten minutes allowed for good lively community song practice?

Are you teaching new songs and creating a renewed interest in good singing?

Does the music in your ward reflect the standards of our people?

Is the character of the music in your organization such as would attract and increase the enrollment of new members?

Is the music of your organization keeping pace with the other fine intellectual activities of the Relief Society?

Are you yourself so enthusiastic over your work that your enthusiasm is contagious?

Choristers and Organists, emphasize a more active participation in music on the part of the Relief Society members.

Help them to realize the value of preserving in adult life the musical aptitudes which were developed through public school music, and other musical activities.

The product of this training must have found its way into our Relief Society groups.

Try to establish in the hearts of our sisters this idea, this desire—Hear Music, Make Music, Enjoy Music.

Let us all remember there are no age limits to music—that music is the real fountain of youth.

Music is a sacred, a divine thing that lifts us up to God.

It helps us to feel His glory. (Continued