[Vol9 | October 1922 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Leisure]

Leisure Someone has attempted recently to make a study of the daily activities of the average ind: vidual and to determine the relative number of hours spent in dull routine in comparison with the number spent in enjoyable living. It is, of course, impossible to chart every activity and arbitrarily label it as boring or fascinating. What is play to one is arduous work to another. Toa certain type of woman a party may be a "hard day of pleasure." The study involves the whole problem of individual differences, and therefore not many definite conclusions can be drawn. It is likewise difficult to determine whether the same activities, such as eating, conversing, or riding on street cars, are on all occasions equally pleasurable. But the person making the study concluded, after careful observation and introspection, that the greater part of the waking day, in the cases of most individuals, is spent in dull and tiresome performances. The average individual spends somewhere near eight hours a day at definite work—and in most cases, with a few exceptions such as creative artists, the work is of necessity, of a routinary and uninspiring nature. Eight hours in jan office— typewriting, reading and dictating letters, filing, or selling merchandise—is, as a rule, fatiguing labor. Eight hours, and usually more, spent in a home washing dishes, cleaning vegetables, dusting rooms, or making bread, often savors of drudgery. At this point it may be suggested that the time occupied by purely automatic tasks may be saved from actual waste by consciously applying the mind in some other field. Poems may be learned, lessons may be planned, or a letter may be thought out, while the hands are performing familiar details. Bibbs, in Booth Tarkington's The Turmoil, while operating a machine in his father's factory, rejoiced in the fact that, although engaged in lowly labor, he could preserve his mental freedom. But allowing eight hours for work, and a similar period for sleep, there still remains another eight hours which may be classified as leisure. It is true that perhaps two or three hours of this time are consumed in dressing, going to and from work, and other details of living. But, as a rule, in every individual's daily life, there are several hours of time at his disposal; time that he may devote to his personal pursuits. The reward of diversion and rest at the end of the day makes the machine-like processes of the working period tolerable. It is these hours of  recreation, of pleasurable living, that makes the daily routine and toil endurable. This is a natural and perfectly proper attitude. The body is fatigued and a change of activity is, physiologically, necessary. The nerves and muscles, that have been at work earning a livelihood, or maintaining a home, demand a rest. The mind and spirit demand a reprieve from irksome and deadening routine, and seek a new and more satisfying expression. Leisure, then, should be spent so as to give the body the rest it needs, and should at the same time be pleasurable; that is, it should give the whole being the sense of "living." To a person whose work requires physical exertion, the needed rest might be an evening spent in reading or in attending a theater. If a person has spent several hours in an office, some physical activity, such as an outdoor game, some household tasks, or a long walk, may in reality be a "rest." The recreation should be of such a nature that the powers employed and worn out during the day may be actually given an opportunity to be recreated. The selection of pastimes for the leisure hours should be studied, not only with the view of resting the body, but also with the purpose of determining what will be pleasurable. It must be rememberd, too, that one's taste for pleasures can be cultivated, and that pleasure, in the sense here used, should not Be confused with mere ga'ety or frivolity. Pleasure, to one, may be the thrill of doing a piece of creative work; to another it may be the joy of writing a cheery letter to a troubled friend. It may be the mental vigor that a well written book may inspire. It may be the peaceful satisfaction that accompanies an unselfish act. It may be the calm that attends a victor who has conquered his unruly spirit. It is not difficult to distinguish between ephemeral gaieties and the lasting pleasures of Ife; nor is it, to those who have experienced both, difficult to measure their relative worth. The real problem of leisure, of full and pleasurable living, is that of proper cultivation. A taste for reading can be acquired only by establishing the habit. The Scriptures offer no 'nspiration to those who never read the pages of holy writ. A symphony by Mozart is not appreciated, nor does it touch the soul of one accustomed to "popular" music. A walk on the hills has no appeal to a preoccupied "flapper." Because such tastes can be cultivated, there is perhaps no better index to a person's character, his tendencies, and his potentialities, than the manner in which he makes use of his leisure. The excessive moving picture "fan," the street corner loafer, the nightly "jazz" crowds, and the eternal front porch idlers, all reveal their mental levels. They are expressing their idea of "living."