[Vol9 | October 1922 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Home | Title: Home Economics Jeannette A. Hyde]

Home Economics By Jeannette A, Hyde Ripe Cucumber Pickles 12 large ripe cucumbers. 1 qt. Small onions. 1 bunch dil. Y% cup mixed spices. 1 horse radish root. Vinegar. Peel, cut cucumbers in halves lengthwise, scrape pulp and seeds with silver spoon, cut dice-sized pieces. Peel onions, sprinkle with salt, let stand. Put cucumbers in salt water 5 hours, 1 cup salt to 8 cups water. To every gallon of water allow 1 tbsp. Mustard.. Place in jars alternate layers of cucumbers, onions, dill, spices, and 'horse radish. Put in equal parts of water and vinegar. Cover and let stand. Dill Pickled Beans 1 pk. Wax or green beans. 4 qts. Water. 1 cup salt. 2 large stalks dill. 4% oz. Black pepper corns. 6 bay leaves. 6 grape or cherry leaves., 1 cup vinegar. Pour boiled beans in salt water, 1 tsp. Salt to 1 qt. Boiling water. Drain and pack in jars. Add pepper corns, repeat unt] all ingredients have been used. Summer Dill Pickles 100 pickles. 6 stalks dill. 1 oz. Black pepper corns. 1 cup vinegar. Grape leaves. 4 gal. Water. 1 cup salt. HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT 52) Soak pickles 12 hours in cold water. Drain aud dry. Put 2 layers pickles and 3 or 4 blossom ends of dill, 1 tsp. Witote or grape leaves. To 4 qts. Water, use 1 cup salt. Boil and cool. Pour over pickles to cover. Weight and cover. Let stand 1 week. Then add 1 cup vinegar. Rinse off scum every day from cloth in warn weather. Twice in cold. Put in cool and dry place. Boiled Beets 1 qt. Cold boiled beets, sliced. 1 tsp. Salt. 1 tsp. Caroway seed. Ym tsp. Pepper. 1 pt. Vinegar. Mix and put ingredients on beets. Cucumber Appetizer Peel large firm cucumber. Cut into thick slices. Scoop out center with cutter, leaving only rind. Put each piece on. Thick slice of tomato. Fill center with cold chopped fish, vegetables or ition: parsley. French Fruit Dressing 1-3 cup salad oil. 1% tbsp. Lemon juice. YR tbsp. Salt. ¥% tbsp. Melted currant jelly or honey. Few grains paprika. First combine the ingredients, then beat well and serve with any fruit salad. Broiled Fish with Sauce 114: Ibs. Fish. 4 hard cooked whites of eggs, chop whites. 4 hard cooked yolks of eggs. 1 tbsp. Capers or pickled nasturtium seeds. 1 tbsp. Pickles, finely chopped. 1 tbsp. Onion, finely chopped. 1 tsp. Mustard. % cup mayonnaise dressing. 1 tbsp. Catsup. 'l tbsp. Powdered sugar. 1 tbsp. Vinegar. 1 tsp. Chopped parsley. 1 cup strained fish liquid. Ber. Mix with mayonnaise dressing. Repeat until all are used. Cover top with cherry leaves Decorate w-th chopped  Mash egg yolks with mustard and oil. Add all but chopped ingredients, which should be put in last. Season to taste. The following recipe was furnished by Mrs. Doris Jenkins, Oakley, Idaho. Mrs. Jenkins vouches for the perfection of the corn if put up this way: 9 cups of corn. 1 cup of sugar. Y% cup salt. Cut corn from cob, and salt and sugar, place in jars and boil 30 minutes. Seal air tight. BOOK NOTICE Columbus, Westward Ho! By Alice Merrill Horne, which has been published recently, has attracted considerable attention among local literary people. The author, in her play, has humanized Columbus. The skeleton of the daring explorer has been taken from the dead pages of history and has been transformed to a living, vital, and appealing figure. The reader is made to understand and sympathize with the human Columbus, and to experience with him his burning ambitions, his undaunted hopes, his passionate love for the sea, and his unbroken faith in his great mission. The play is in two acts, with a prologue and an epilogue. The scene in the prologue, where the boy Columbus finally prevails upon his father and mother tto allow him to go to sea, is particularly touching. Every mother who has had a son plead for permission to forsake his home, and answer Ambition's call, will read the lines with an understanding heart. The incidents in all of the scenes are skilfully arranged and each one culminates in a striking and dramatic climax. The career of Columbus, accurate in historical detail, is made a vivid and moving story, and his triumphs and defeats are graphically told in convincing and beautiful English. The volume offers a pleasant evening's reading, and will undoubtedly become familiar to the public through the printed page. However, a presentation of it on the stage, even with simple settings and costumes, would unquestionably be delightful and effective. The charm of the book is enhanced by several distinctive il-' lustrations by Florence Ware, a local artist. Several prominent men of the state have discovered with pleasure that they have been included in the verses which accompany tthe dedication of the book—"To Boys on Discovery Bent." Published by Deseret News Press. On sale at Deseret Book Co., $1.75, cloth; $3.00, leather; postage 10c extra.