[Vol9 | October 1922 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: LESSON III - Literature - HYMNS WRITTEN BY WOMEN]

LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in December) HYMNS WRITTEN BY WOMEN Many people know that women have contributed a goodly number of hymns, of great value, to the hymnals of Christendom; yet they do not know to what extent women have contributed, neither do they know that a large group of the most valued hymns have been written by women. It is the purpose of this lesson to discuss the points indicated in the introductory paragraph. From 1546, to very near the present day, 2,500 hymns have been written by women. A list of twelve well known hymns will indicate what some of these hymns are: "T Need Thee Every Hour," Mrs, E. P. Prentiss; "Nearer My God, to Thee," Mrs. Sarah Flower Adams: "Work for the Night is Coming," Annie L. Walker; "The Ninety and Nine," Elizabeth C. Clephane; "Over the River," Nancy W. Priest; "Rocked in the Cradle of the Deep,' Mrs. Willard; "Flee as a Bird," Mrs. M. S. B. Dana; ''Peace, be Still," Mrs. M. A. Baker; "Sowing the Seed" (with the well known chorus, What shall the harvest be?), Mrs. Emily S. Oakey; "When the Mists have Rolled Away," Annie Herbert; "Nearer Home," Phoebe Cary; "The Battle Hymn of the Republic," Julia Ward Howe. Of these hymns the three most valued, perhaps, are 'Ninety and Nine," called by some people the greatest gospel hymn of our time; "Nearer My God to Thee," sung the world over by people of every Christian creed; and the "Battle Hymn of the Republic," valued for its Jofty tone and Christian patriotism.  An outstanding feature of hymns written by women is the fact that almost without exception they are filled with a deep sense of gratitude to Jesus, whom they paise as their Redeemer, their Savior from sin, the Author of eterfal life. This should be a source of satisfaction to all women, for in these hours of intellectual keenness, and sometimes spiritual darkness, we are all indebted to those persons who have become witnesses for Christ, in song or story, or through whatever medium the Holy Spirit prompts. Another reason why it is natural for women to praise Christ is that he exalted women. Throughout his min'stry, he placed her at man's side, where she belongs. He was throughout his life her champion, her sympathetic advisor and companion. It was she to whom he first revealed himself at the tomb and to whom he gave the commisssion that she should tell the brethren, his disciples, that the crucified Lord had become the risen Redeemer. The light of truth which Christ brought into the world to dispel the darkness of ignorance and error must always be the most potent of all factors for the exaltation of womanhood. One of the loftiest truths paid to woman in connection with her Redeemer is found in the lines of Elizabeth Barrett Browning: "Not she with traitorous kiss her Savior stung; Not she den'ed him with unholy tongue; She, while apostles shrank, could danger brave, Last at his cross, and earliest at his grave." The hymn, 'Ninety and Nine," written by Elizabeth C. Clephane, a native of Scotland, in the year 1864, was inspired by the Scriptural lines, "Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep that was lost." The author of "Nearer, My God, to Thee," Mrs. Sarah Flower Adams, was born in Cambridge, England, February 22, 1805. She has been but very slightly known to the great public who have cherished her lyrics as among its most sacred treasures for nearly half a century. Her father was the editor of a weekly Cambridge paper, and her mother was a woman of fine gifts and culture. She herself was the youngest child. She was noted in early life for the taste she manifested in literature, and in her maturer years for great zeal and earnestness in her religious life. At what time she wrote the world-famous hymn, "Nearer, My God, to Thee," is unknown, but, say her biographers, "it was probably during some period of peculiar trial when her spirit was uplifted through sorrow almost beyond its earthly body." The hymn was first published in 1841, in a volume of sacred lyrics issued  by Mr. Fox of England, just eight years before the death of the author, who passed beyond in her forty-fifth year. Mrs, Adams visited America just before her hymn was first written. Besides being an author she also composed music consdered good in England. Her works have been collected and edited. At the time of her death she did not suspect that she had written one of the first of Christian hymns, a hymn that takes its place with "Rock of Ages," "A Mighty Fortress is My God" and other hymns recognized as greatest in Christian hymnology. Julia Ward Howe,. Author of "The Battle Hymn of the Republic," was born in Bowling Green, New York City, in 1819. Her early years showed unusual talent for writing both in prose and verse. At seventeen she was a valued contributor to the New York Magazine, a well known periodical at that time. She early developed musical talent and was urged by her instructors to devote herself to composing music. She had a musical voice and dramatic ability that won her high rank among the amateurs of her time. Her father was a man of wealth and culture, drawing into the home the most eminent mus'cians and literary connoisseurs, so that Mrs. Howe had practically every advantage for self improvement that those early days afforded. In 1843 she was married to Dr. Samuel Howe, a prominent reformer. While abroad a year or two after her marriage she gave birth to a daughter christened Julia Romania in remembrance of her birth in Rome. After her return from Europe she became much interested in the slavery question, and in 1845, "Words for the Hour" was pttblished, which was her second volume of poems published, the first being issued under the title of "Passion Flower." It was during the Civil war that she wrote her world-famous poem, "The Battle Hymn of the Republic." The following account of the writing of this hymn is given by her biographer in Famous Women:?'When our land was stained with the blood of its defenders, and the war bugles rang through the country, her voice took up the cry and echoed back a war pean grand enough for the march of the Republic to its greatest conquest, the victory of self. It has been unjustly attributed by some to Chaplain McCabe, because he sang it so frequently after it came out, while he was doing noble work among the boys in blue. Here is the circumstance that inspired the writing of it. In company with her husband and a party of ladies and gentlemen she made a memorable visit to the Capital of the United States during the war. In company with friend, at a review of troops, an interruption was caused by movements from the enemy. Re'nforcements were sent to a party of soldiers that had been surrounded and the review  was abandoned for the day. The carriage containing Mrs. Howe and friends moved slowly along, surrounded by armed men. Among other things she sang 'John Brown Song' in her rich melodious voice, which much' pleased and inspired her hearers. She then expressed a desire to write better words for that soulstirring tune, remarking that she feared that she would never be able to accomplish it. "She retired to rest that night full of thoughts of battle, and awakening in the gray dawn next morning, she sprang from her bed, seized her pen and paper and in a few moments the 'Battle Hymn of the Republic' was completed. As she finished it, she exclaimed: 'I like that better than anything I have ever written'." She lived to be nearly one hundred years of age, passing to her reward Oct. 17, 1910. Four children survived her; the eldest daughter died before her mother's death. It should be a source of great pride and satisfaction to the Latter-day Saints that their women have kept pace with the gifted women of the world in their contribution of hymns to the hymnology of their people. Time will give to the women of latter-day Israel, who have written hymns of high order, the recognition they so justly deserve. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Use the three hymns "Ninety and Nine," "Nearer, My God, to Thee,' and "Battle Hymn of the Republic" for the music of the meeting, as far as possible. If it is impossible for you to have these hymns stung, for any reason best known to you, have them read. 2. Have someone give the scriptural account of the lost sheep., 3. To what events of history does Elizabeth Barrett Browning refer when she writes of woman, "Last at his cross and earliest at his grave." 4. What tragic occurrence, within the last twelve years, brought the hymn "Nearer, My God, to Thee," into new prominence, all over the world? 5. Namea song written by a woman, during the world's war that gained great popularity?