		TANTE DORETTE.
	We had been traveling for several days
in the interest of our society work—Aunt
Janie and I, and one morning we drove to a
farm house out on the southern desert sev-
eral miles from the railroad terminal. We
were both quite tired and very hungry, and
from the appearance of the place neither
one of us expected much entertainment, for
the house was a small frame and the sur-
roundings boasted of no particular comfort.
The interior, however, was a surprise, and
belied the rude and desolate appearance
outside. Around the walls, covered with
painted burlap, were shelves filled with
choice books; some beautiful prints, copies
of the masters, and one rare piece of tapestry
were suspended above the shelves, while on
a small table by the window were a few
dainty pieces of china and glass. But the
greatest surprise of all was the quaint little
woman who welcomed us within. Neither
of us could tell you if she was old or young,
plain or beautiful, but one thing we were
both agreed upon: she was perfectly charm-
ing. Hair wavy and slightly gray, eyes
bright and black as night, medium height,
slender and graceful, she extended to greet
us a long, slender hand, brown with ex-

[Column 2]
posure, but not hard as her pioneer life
would lead you to think, and with the grace
and decorum of a duchess bade us enter
her humble home. After we had taken off
our wraps, shaken the dust of the desert
from our clothing and freshened our toil-
ettes somewhat, we drew our chairs up to
the heater at the end of the room and en-
tered into a speculation about the early life
and history of our hostess while she was
absent in another room, preparing a lunch
for us.
	“Aunt Janie, I know she’s French,” I
said impulsively, “and has a history worth
the telling, let’s get it out of her.” “I think
she is Swiss, probably a weaver of silk, did
you notice the tapestry on the wall?” re-
plied Aunt Janie. “Some of our early Swiss
converts were quite well off, but how they
were ever landed in this desert is a mystery
to me. Anyway, she’s a charming old lady,
and I mean to make the most of the hour
we stay here by finding out about these
books and this china and glass. Why, those
vases look Venetian, do come nearer and
look at them. See how iridescent and thin
they are.”
	The subject of our conversation just then
entered the room to announce that our din-
ner was ready. I felt very much embar-
rassed that she should find me examining
her treasures, but with an apology explained
that I had been attracted towards the table
by the delicate coloring in the glass. She
seemed not annoyed but pleased, and said
few people who came that way seemed to
appreciate such things, yet they were most
precious to her, for she had brought them
from her “own dear Italy.” We both laughed
to ourselves at our stupid guessing; for here
she was neither French nor Swiss, but Ital-
ian.
	It seemed almost unreal, this dainty, deli-
cious lunch, served by this quiet, beautiful
lady in such an out-of-the-way, desolate
place. We found her more than willing to 
tell her story, in fact she declared it was a
comfort and pleasure to meet sympathetic
and interested listeners, for the pioneer life
at best is lonely and hard where the occa-
sional visitor is generally a cowboy looking
for lost cattle or a drummer with his case of
samples on his way to the next town—the
conversation of either one of little interest to
a cultivated woman.
	“Yes,” she began with a little sigh, “it is
very strange, our coming here; but it shows
how the gospel reaches out and finds the
true seed. We were the only ones in our
village and for miles around who would even
listen to the elders and I think the reason
must have been because we were of differ-
ent origin. My father’s people, you know,
were French Huguenots who fled from
France at the time of the Thirty Years’ war,
fled in the night time,”——just then I 
nudged Aunt Janie knowingly, for the guess
I had made in the beginning—whispering
blood tells, you know, even to the third and
fourth generation——“crossed the border
into Switzerland and, there in an Alpine vil-
lage not far from the city of Berne, high in 
the Oberland, found a refuge and lived in


[Column 1]
the enjoyment of their freedom. It was
there my grandfather was born and lived.
He married a Swiss peasant maiden who
boasted of wonderful ingenuity in fine
needlework and lacemaking.”
	It was now Aunt Janie’s turn to smile,
for here the Swiss guess was proven cor-
rect, and we both laughed at our different
surmises so oddly fulfilled.
	“My father,” she continued, “as he grew
to manhood was not satisfied with the Swiss
life, and was seized with the ‘wanderlust’ as
the Germans say; and left home while still
a youth to seek his fortune in another land.
He crossed the Alps into Italy and found
work among the Piedmontese with a
wealthy vintner. The soft winds and balmy
air of northern Italy somewhat toned his
rugged Alpine disposition, and he soon
adapted himself to the work in the vine-
yards and became a great favorite in the
family of his employer, especially with the
black-eyed signorita whom he married when
she was only sixteen years old. Thus es-
tablished as heirs of the family, the larger
part of the vineyard was given my father
and mother; and in their pretty home, built
on the slope of the hill, with terrace after
terrace covered with most beautiful grape
vines spread out in front, and long paths
shaded with olive trees and great wisteria
vines hanging over the windows and doors—
there I was born and raised.”
	For a moment she seemed lost in reverie
as this picture presented itself and in the
silence we both thought of the vast differ-
ence to this poor woman from the shaded,
vine-clad hills of northern Italy to the bleak-
ness of this broad, level desert home, with
its sagebrush and mesquite.
	Presently she resumed: “When I was
five years old I had a very strange dream
and very real, so real, in fact, that I awoke
with a scream and ran down the stairs where
my father was just starting the morning
fire. It seemed as though my room was
flooded with a great light and standing at
the foot of my bed were two strange men,
dressed not as we dressed in Italy but in a
fashion peculiar to me, and in their hands
each one held a book with a gold cover. One
of them, a tall, dark, slender man, spoke
to me in these words: ‘To this house we
have brought the book of life—to your fath-
er and his household and his ancestors the
way is open—come!’ Now that I am older,
I think those were the very words; of course
as a child I could not repeat them so; but
one thing, I know they said ‘Come;’ and I
was so startled, and believed they had come
to carry me away, that I clung to my father
and would not let him leave me all that day.
In fact for a long time I never went out to
play with my little friends, and if a stran-
ger came to the farm I used to go away in
secret and pray for protection and conceal
myself in my mother’s room. But as the
years passed this fear left me, though the
remembrance of the dream never became
even dim in my mind.
	“On my sixteenth birthday a stranger ap-
plied for work among the vines and during
the day he told my father that on the way to
our village he had had a singular encounter
with two men from a new country. One
spoke to him a strange language, then in
broken French; but he understood so little
that the other, who spoke the Sicilian dia-
lect, undertook to explain that they had a
new religion, that the Christ had again ap-
peared, and all the people were to be taught

[Column 2]
the new gospel. My father was very much
impressed with what the laborer, Pietro, told
him, and began to inquire as to which road
the men had taken, and further as to what
they had said; but the only information he
could get was that they had gone over the
hill beyond us towards the mountains;
Pietro had thought their actions unusual
because they had asked him to pray with
them, and when he refused, the taller man
—he thought him English—spoke with great
feeling and raised his hand in which he held
a book, above him; but though he could
not understand the words, the incident made
him feel very uneasy, and he could not
throw off the peculiar feeling, which was
why he had told about it now.
	“When my father came in to dinner he
related this to my mother and me, and to all
three of us at once the thought of the dream
came back. ‘It is the child’s dream,’ ex-
claimed my mother; and we all knew that
something of a different nature had entered
our lives.
	“That afternoon my father did not return
to the vineyard but sat for hours musing
before the door. Toward evening, as
though suddenly resolved, he came to my
mother and said: ‘I must find them;’ and
turning to me he said, ‘Little Dorette, be
not afraid; I will bring them back and we
shall see your beautiful book.’
	“For two days my father walked in their
wake, never overtaking them but learning
that two such men had passed the way be-
fore him and hearing of the words they
had left behind. Towards evening of the
third day he reached a little chapel high on
the mountain side, approached by a single
path through the forest of trees. Entering
the door he found six or eight people assem-
bled listening to the strange words of a tall,
straight man; and though the language was
foreign, yet the spirit of what he said
seemed to hold them almost breathless.
When this one had finished another man
interpreted his words in the Sicilian dialect
and then himself said: ‘I know this is the
truth.’
	“My father had seated himself at the
back, and after the men had finished speak-
ing and the people began to go away, he
went up to them and said: ‘I want you to
come back with me to my home.’ He re-
turned with them that night to a village and
paid for their entertainment, and next day
brought them to our home. On the way the
tall man told him of Joseph Smith and his
mission, and bore testimony of the Truth, of
the gospel being restored. My father does
not know to this day how it was that he
understood it all, for he knew not a word
of English nor did his companion know any
Italian, or even German, my father’s na-
tive tongue; yet they conversed in perfect
understanding of each other.
	“My mother and myself saw them ap-
proaching the house, and the earnest man-
ner of them all and the lightness of their step
caused us to feel that something of a pleas-
ant nature awaited us; and we were most
happy, for father’s long absence had caused
us not a little uneasiness. As soon as the
evening meal was over, my father described
to us his journey and how he felt all the
time impelled to keep on until he found
them, never once thinking of turning back,
and would have so continued going on for
weeks had it been necessary, for he knew
they had for him something greater than
earthly treasures.

[Column 3]
	“The result of it was that my father,
my mother, and myself were baptized into
the Church, but my dear mother never lived
to come to America. When we were just
about ready to leave she was taken very ill
and our journey was delayed a year, hoping
that she would recover; but she had con-
tracted consumption, which finally overcame
her, and we buried her on the hillside near
our cottage. The neighbors had thought my
father crazy to shelter and befriend the
elders, and the pious people refused to have
my mother buried in the churchyard, be-
cause of our strange belief. We never had
been Catholics, though my mother’s people
were, and our home had always been a rest-
ingplace for any who had liberal views.
	“We came to America and to Zion, my
father and I, and we are not sorry, though
sometimes we miss our beautiful Italy. Per-
haps had we not come south where we were
told it was balmier and more like our old
home we could better have adapted our-
selves; but we planted a beautiful vineyard
on the Santa Clara and made most excel-
lent wine. But my husband is American and
not content with a little vineyard; he must
reach out after big things; so here we are in
this lonely place where they tell us some
day big capitalists are coming to draw oil
from the earth and then maybe I will be rich
enough to go back to Italy, Switzerland and
France and obtain all the records of my
ancestors and do for them a great work.
For this I am willing to wait, but really
waiting is very monotonous.”
	I rather surprised the quaint little lady at
this juncture by throwing my arms about
her impulsively, saying: “Just one more
lovely testimony of the honest in heart.”
By this time our team was ready and we
had to proceed on our way.

	I do not know whether the oil wells or
the vineyards yielded the money, but Aunt
Dorette and her father made a long visit
to their native land soon afterwards and
doubtless returned with work enough to
keep them busy for a long time to come.
	Well, children, this is only one of the
thousands of stories of how God’s ministers
are led to the honest in heart, and how they
bring to them the light and truth. Maybe
you can guess who the tall, dark man was
when I tell you he was the one who intro-
duced the gospel into Italy, was an Apostle
of the Lord in these our days, and lived to
be the President of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints in all the world.
And now Goodnight and Happy Dreams.
