		ST. JOSEPH STAKE. 
	A Relief Society conference of the St. 
Joseph Stake was held at Thatcher, October
1 in the meeting house. A business ses-
sion convened at 10 a. m., at which a good
representation of the officers from all the
branches was present. A number of the
bishops and brethren were in attendance, al-
so Sister Elizabeth McCune of the General
Board, President Elizabeth W. Layton, all
of the St. Joseph Stake Board, and about
thirty-eight officers, which is a good show-
ing. 
	First Counselor Selena Phillips, who was
in charge, made pleasant and congratulatory
remarks at the opening and was followed by
reports from different local presidents; Pima
society by Sena Norton; Matthews ward by
Mary Mack; Eden by Carrie Blair; Emery
by Olive Windsor; Graham by Hattie Skin-
ner; Layton by Louise Welker; Central by
Diantha Smith; Thatcher by Adelia Tyler,
all in a very fair condition. 
	President E. W. Layton gave a detailed
report of the Relief Society of the Stake. 
Said that all the wards had been visited, and
been encouraged in their work. All were up
in their lessons except in the Doctrine and
Covenants, sections of which had been rec-
ommended for the work meetings. Those
societies that have taken hold of this study,

[Column 2]
testify of the great worth it has been to
them. Believed that much good was being
accomplished in the way of donations and
in assistance to the poor. 
	Sister McCune spoke of the origin of the
Relief Society, its aim and object as ex-
plained by the Prophet Joseph Smith. We
must each do our duty if we become identi-
fied with this great work, and not allow a
few to do it all. Realized that the officers
had great responsibilities and perhaps they
were not always appreciated, but we must
seek to know our duty and then ask God to
help us to perform it, no matter how difficult
it may seem. We must be kind to the poor
and aid them, for thereby we gain a bless-
ing; diligent in holding our meetings even
if only a few are present. Encouraged the
storing of wheat and not keep our wheat
money, as it would be useless should a fam-
ine come. Urged the mothers to see that
their young people go to the Temple to be
married, that their children might be born
under the covenant; recommended economy
and simplicity in our Temple clothes. 
	At 2 p. m. the Relief Society conference
was held in connection with the ward meet-
ing. The house was filled, many coming
from other wards. The Thatcher choir was
in attendance, and rendered some beautiful
anthems. 
	After the administration of the sacrament,
the time was given over to the sisters and
President Elizabeth W. Layton presided,
and introduced Sister Elizabeth McCune,
who occupied most of the remaining time
and to good advantage. She began by de-
scribing the scenes of some of her travels
and incidents connected therewith. Spoke
on subjects of importance to Latter-day
Saints, more especially of Temple work for
the dead. Urged that families organize, for
the purpose of raising a fund to obtain their
genealogy which in some instances is very
difficult. The work of the Lord must be
done in order and holiness, and we can do
it only by seeking His assistance each hour
of the day. 
	Conference adjourned for six months,
after the anthem, “Hark, what mean those
holy voices,” with benediction by President
C. M. Layton.
			JOSEPHINE KIMBALL,
							Secretary. 

