		BIG HORN STAKE.
	Minutes of Relief Society Conference of
the Big Horn Stake of Zion, held at Byron
meeting house, August 20, 1911. President
Mary L. Welch presiding; meeting opened
at 10 a. m., with usual exercises.
	Minutes of forenoon session of our last
conference were read and accepted. As it
was Sunday, President Mary L. Welch felt
to thank the Bishop for the use of the meet-
ing house. Reports of the different associ-
ations were given. Millie Egan gave a
piano selection. Sisters Phebe Young Beatie
and Sarah McLelland of the General Board
were introduced, and spoke as follows:
	Sister Beatie was pleased to see so many
young women at work in our Society, felt
we should aim to have our young busy, also
spoke of the duties of the teachers of the
Society, said they were the backbone, en-
couraged us to be cheerful and learn to
look pleasant, especially around the sick, re-
lated a circumstance in her own life, felt
that Relief Society sisters should be united
and love one another, should be charitable,
patient, and kind and care for our young
girls, both ours and our neighbors’. She also
spoke in regard to nurse work, she thought
our young girls ought to be taught in this
course.
	Sister McLelland stated that this was the
largest audience she had met in the Society
for several months. She related instances
of some of our outside friends in regards
to the Book of Mormon, also said that our
missionary boys felt to encourage the moth-
ers to aid them in their work, related a
“story,” to the little folks showing what a
mother’s influence has over the children in

[Column 2]
early childhood, felt that the Lord prepared
us for our work if we only live for it.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p. m.
	Benediction, Stake Counselor R. C. May.
	Afternoon session.—Was presided over
by President Mary L. Welch. After the
usual opening exercises, President Wm. C.
Partridge spoke for a few moments.
	Retta Porter read an essay on, “Benevo-
lence.”
	Vocal solo, Pattie Hatch.
	Sister McLelland spoke, saying she was
very much pleased with the possibilities for
our young folks in this country. She com-
pared the lives of young men and women in
the cities to those in the country, and on the
farm, and told of the missionary work be-
ing done in Salt Lake City for the young
girls. She spoke also of the wickedness that
is going on and felt that Relief Society sis-
ters should reach out a helping hand and
aid all those they could. She related her
missionary experiences and visit to Nauvoo,
she saw the house of the Prophet Joseph
Smith and many other prominent places.
Sister Beatie spoke in regards to our li-
braries which President Emmeline B. Wells
wished each association to have.
	President Mary L. Welch gave notice of
a Relief Society meeting to be held at Cow-
ley, Monday the 21st, and wished to thank
all those who had helped to make this con-
ference a success.
	Benediction by Relief Society Stake
Counselor, Sarah Partridge.
					LIBBIE SNELL,
					Acting Secretary.


