				ETHEL M. HUMPHREYS.


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		CARBON STAKE.
	The Carbon Stake Relief Society confer-
ence was held at Price, August 4, 1911.
President Pauline Pace presiding.
	After opening exercises and roll call,
showing eighteen officers present, remarks
by President Pace, reporting the stake work
and financial condition. The wards were
reported as being in good order. Sister
Edna Davis of the General Board related
the legend of Peter and John, and gave ex-
cellent instructions. Sister Susa Y. Gates,
also of the General Board, explained the
qualifications of members of the Relief So-
ciety. Dwelt upon the storing grain and
making libraries in the Relief Society. She
advised all members to become subscribers
of the Exponent.
	Bishop Albert Bryner endorsed what had
been said, as did also First Counselor Oliver
J. Harmon. 
	At the afternoon session, Sister Eliza
Horsely made a few remarks encouraging
the sisters to attend to their duties; and
narrating some of her missionary experi-
ences. A solo was rendered by Sister Nellie
Wilson.
	Sister Edna Davis spoke of how faith can
be increased in the home; and Sister Susa
Y. Gates said the Relief Society of Emery
Stake was the first to contribute to the
Woman’s Building at Salt Lake City. She
spoke of the mother’s influence in the home,
and instructed the sisters how to dress on
coming to the Temple.
	Elder Arthur W. Horsely spoke of the
good work the Society was performing, also
endorsing the remarks of the preceding
speakers.
	President Pauline Pace made closing re-
marks, and after singing “The Spirit of
God,” benediction was offered by Elder
Ernest S. Horsely.
				MARY E. PACE,
					Acting Secretary.
		YELLOWSTONE STAKE.
	The Relief Society annual conference of
Yellowstone Stake was held July 20, 1911.
There were present President Daniel G. Mil-
ler; Bishop A. D. Miller, of the St. An-
thony ward; the bishops of Ashton and
Farnum, two high councilors, and Sisters
Sarah J. Cannon and Julia P. M. Farns-
worth of the General Board, also eight Re-
lief Society Stake officers.


[Column 1]
	President Julia E. Miller welcomed the
sisters to the conference after which the
following Societies were reported as being
in a thriving condition: Marysville, Ash-
ton and Parker. Sister Miller reported the
Societies as being in good working order,
the stake officers as being united and all
keeping the Word of Wisdom. 
	Stake Treasurer Rhoda A. Mason gave
a financial report, after which Sister Vera
C. Sharp of St. Anthony rendered a vocal
solo. Sister Farnsworth spoke for some
time on the beauties of Relief Society work,
and gave many other good instructions; and
Sister Cannon spoke on the duties of the Re-
lief Society teacher, also on the need of be-
ing charitable to all. 
	Bishop Cunningham of the Ashton ward
told of the help the Relief Society is to the
Bishopric. 
	The afternoon session convened at 2 p. m.
with President Julia E. Miller presiding. 
	The following societies were reported: 
Farnum, Egin, and Wilford; and words of
welcome were given by First Counselor
Mary J. Miller, followed by a duet from
Marysville ward. 
	Sister Sarah J. Cannon spoke on the stor-
ing of grain; suggested that the Relief So-
ciety should have a reserve fund for emer-
gencies. 
	Sister Farnsworth spoke of genealogical
work; told of the evils of the saloon and
gave other good instructions. 
	Brother C. E. Lloyd of the High Council
encouraged the sisters in the good work. 
President D. G. Miller spoke of the grand
work of the mothers. He said each mem-
ber of the Relief Society should be a mis-
sionary. 
	A paper on Mother’s Class Work was read
by Sister Ethel M. Humphreys. 
	After a duet by two little girls of Marys-
ville ward, benediction was pronounced by
Bishop A. D. Miller. 
				MARY E. BROWER. 
								Secretary. 

