			UINTAH STAKE. 
	The annual Conference of the Relief So-
ciety of Uintah Stake was held in the Stake
tabernacle, August 9, 1911, beginning at
10 a. m. President Nancy A. Colton pre-
siding. 
	There were present of the priesthood:
Stake Counselor Ernest Eaton; three High
Councilors; one Bishop; four Elders, and
three visiting brethren; also Sisters Susa
Young Gates and Edna May Davis of the
General Board. 
	President Colton welcomed the brethren
and sisters, and also reported the Society
in good condition. Mrs. Fannie E. Stew-
art, supervisor of mother’s work, reported
the work and read the outlines of last year’s
also this year’s work.
	Sister Edna May Davis related some of
the benefits received from prayer when we
pray in faith, doubting nothing; spoke of
some of her travels, and of the first princi-
ples of the gospel. Referring to our dress,
she said we should not follow the fashions
of the world, and in conclusion urged each
and every one to try and keep the command-
ments of the Lord. 
	A recitation was given by Miss Mary
Merkley. 
	Mrs. Susa Young Gates compared the
belief of the Latter-day Saints with other
denominations; advised the mothers to ed-
ucate their children in the gospel, for “train
a child in the way it should go it will not
depart from it.” She spoke some of her
travels in distant lands as well as at home. 
	President Colton made a few closing re-
marks in regard to the duties of the Relief
Society. 
	An officers’ meeting was held between ses-
sions, at which President Keturah Merkley
reported Vernal First ward; and President
Hannah B. Odekirk reported Vernal Sec-
ond ward Society in good condition. 
	Miss Edna May Davis gave instructions
as to storing grain and of the clothes to be
worn in the Temple of the Lord. 
	Mrs. Susa Young Gates said President
Emmeline B. Wells wished all the Relief
Societies to have a good library, and sug-
gested a way to start one. She advised the
teachers in regard to their duties especially
in regard to prayer in time of trouble and
when they go out teaching the people. 
	At the afternoon session Mrs. Susa
Young Gates was the first speaker. She
said the gospel is nothing new, it is preached
just the same today as it was in the rise of


[Column 1]
the Church. She spoke of her travels in
England, Switzerland, Germany, France, the
islands of the sea, from north to south, and
east to west. She had raised her voice in all
of these in defense of the gospel of Jesus
Christ. She advised mothers to teach their
children honor and respect for the priest-
hood, and spoke at some length on self-
destruction. She also spoke of the resur-
rection and baptism for the dead.
	A song was given by a group of little
girls from Maeser, accompanied by Miss
Meda Carpenter.
	Stake President Don B. Colton spoke of
the firmness of children’s views as to the
gospel when they have been taught from
childhood. He urged the sisters to be com-
panions to their children, to teach them the
gospel and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ,
also unity in the home.
	A recitation was given by Miss Zara
Colton.
	Miss Edna May Davis spoke on obedience
and urged all to do their duty.
	Mrs. Mary H. Stringham encouraged
every one present to live up to what we
have heard, and asked the mothers to see
that their children have proper books, that
they may get their lessons for the different
organizations in the Church. She thanked
the sisters of Vernal First and Second ward
for their hospitality, and President Nancy
A. Colton thanked all for their attendance.
	After a song by Sisters Mina Pack and
Bathera Young, accompanied by Miss Oral
Wilson, Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett in behalf of
the Stake Board thanked the visiting sis-
ters from Salt Lake City for their presence,
and the benediction was given by Elder
Sterling D. Colton.
			PHEBE A. MERKLEY,
							Secretary.

