JOHN SMITH, PATRIARCH.
	It is very seldom that it becomes necessary
to record in the same issue of any journal
the death of two distinguished members of
the same family, both very prominent in the
community of which they formed a part.
Such becomes the unusual and unhappy duty
of the Exponent at this time.
	Mention has already been made of the de-
mise of President John Henry Smith. His
co-laborer and kinsman, John Smith, presid-
ing patriarch of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, obeyed the final sum-
mons and passed to his rest late in the night
of Monday, the 6th of November, three
weeks lacking one day after his cousin was
laid in the tomb. Within a month, there-
fore, the Church has had the sorrowful ex-
perience of parting from two valiant chief-
tains in the cause of Truth, and the Taber-
nacle has twice within that brief period put
on funeral drapery and been the gathering
place of mourning thousands. The double
bereavement recalls in some respects, though
without the awful circumstances, the trag-
edy at Carthage, in 1844, when the father of
one of these leaders and the uncle of both of
them, met their fate at assassins’ hands,
united in death as they had been united in
life.
	John Smith, the fourth presiding patri-
arch of the Church, was the oldest son of
Hyrum Smith, patriarch and martyr, and
therefore a brother of President Joseph F.
Smith. He was born at Kirtland, Ohio,
September 22, 1832, his mother, Jerusha
Barden, dying when he was five years old.
As a lad he went to Missouri with his father,
and his early boyhood was spent among the
cruel scenes enacted there against the
Saints; he was also among those banished
from the city of Nauvoo, moving westward
with the family of Heber C. Kimball. While
camped on the banks of the Missouri river
near the present city of Council Bluffs he
tenderly nursed back to health Col. Thomas
L. Kane, the devoted friend of the perse-
cuted Saints who, while engaged in con-
tinual efforts to help them, had contracted
a fever from which he almost died. Brother
Smith here rejoined his father’s family, and
remained with them at Winter Quarters on
this side of the river until 1848, when he
came to the Salt Lake valley, arriving on
his sixteenth birthday.
	He was ordained to his high office on the


18th of February, 1855, previous incum-
bents having been his grandfather, his father
and his grand-uncle. In 1862 he was called
on a mission to Scandinavia, and started out
to cross the plains on horseback without
purse or scrip. His way was opened up be-
fore him, however, and he fulfilled a lengthy
and honorable mission, during which he
mastered the Scandinavian languages.
	While a man of retiring disposition, and 
not given to multiplying of words or seek-
ing after prominence in public speaking or
public affairs, he was nevertheless widely
known and beloved for his goodness of
heart. He was spiritual in a marked degree,
as became his patriarchal lineage and call-
ing, and he loved to promise rich blessings 
upon the heads of those deserving of them.
An instance of his obedience to the prompt-
ings of the Spirit was narrated at his funer-
al: to a man who came to receive a blessing
under his hands, he replied that he did not
feel like complying at the time; such a 
blessing as the visitor desired he did not feel
able to pronounce, while such promises as
he probably should be led to make, his vis-
itor would not like to hear; and it subse-
quently transpired that the applicant proved
himself altogether unworthy.
	All the speakers at his funeral, which
took place on the 12th inst., testified to his
excellence as a man and his fidelity as a
servant of the Lord; the vast audience in 
attendance attested by their presence the es-
teem in which he was held; and the many
thousands thoroughout Zion who knew and
have been benefited by association with him
will unite in mourning his loss and honoring
his memory.
							A. W. C.


