However frail, or small, or young, the babe
	within your arms may be,
It still may speak with potent tongue uplift
	humanity.

Again beyond, above all power of life’s most
	fond, supreme desire,
There blooms a fair exquisite flower, there,
	burns a bright immortal fire.
The blessed thought that we still live, when all
	this mortal strife is o’er,
Tis possible e’en life to give, and know that
	God will all restore.—Ellis R. Shipp.


[Column 1]
TRANSPLANTED—A THANKSGIVING
				STORY.
	The old-fashioned farmhouse with its
broad halls and long staircases, its deep
casement windows and great fireplaces, had
been a scene of merriment and rejoicing all
day. The grown sons and daughters with
their families had come home to partake of
the Thanksgiving cheer and the youngsters
at home had sported and romped with their
young nephews and nieces, and the youths
and maidens had entertained their guests
with games and music, for this was an old-
fashioned family of many children, as well
as an old-fashioned home, and all had gath-
ered for a real old-fashioned Thanksgiving
time. On such a day the old are young and
the young are old, and the beaming counte-
nance but reflects the loving heart. Father
and mother had welcomed them all, had giv-
en bounteously of harvest gathering. There
had been the hearty dinner with the great
russet brown turkeys, sauces, vegetables, and
all the usual accompaniments including the
steaming plum pudding surrounded with
blue flames and the golden pumpkin pies that
“no one could make like mother,” and after
that the passing of rosy apples and pans
of snowy popcorn, until, surfeited with good
things and happy hours, the little ones be-
gan to weary. Goodnights were said and
the young families betook themselves to
their own firesides.
	The children at home drew their chairs
close around the fireside, reserving a central
place for father and mother, and settled
down for a quiet hour before the final hymn
and prayer were said. “Now, mother, for a
story—some good old-fashioned story for
us to sleep on,” was the cry, and mother,
finding rest and comfort herself in these
reminiscent hours, narrated the story of

