MISSIONARY EXPERIENCES.
	These experiences thronged into my
mind one day, when I rapped at the door of
a house, in a long row of houses, in a nice
part of Stratford. I had gone all over that
district with first tracts some time before
and was now leaving seconds. A lady
opened the door, and I was explaining the
tract to her when a man’s voice from within
called out, “Come in, I want to see you!”
	Glad of an invitation, I entered without
delay; followed the lady into the parlor,
where a large round table was spread for
tea. A man, I should say of nearly eighty
years, met us at the door. “I want to tell
you,” he said, “that the explanation you
gave of Rev. 14:6, 7 is not correct. It does
not mean a literal angel at all.” After ex-
plaining his idea of the passage, he told me
of a distant relative, who, years ago, had
gone to Utah, and died there, and her fu-
neral expenses had been sent to, or reverted
to him in some way, and he was, even now,
furious about it. He had asked me to be
seated, while he stood before me, accusing
some person unknown to me, of sending his
own mother’s funeral expenses to him to
defray, and on account of this we were im-
posters of the worst kind. When he grew
tired he looked at me (I had not said
much), and said, “You are a good woman,
and sincere, but you are deluded; do you
mind having a word of prayer with me?”
“Not in the least!” So we three knelt
down, and he prayed long and fervently that
the Lord would lead me to his truth, and
make his will plain to me from the error of
my ways to serve him, etc. All this I
could conscientiously subscribe to, so I sol-
emnly joined in his “Amen.” If there was
one thing I desired more than another, it
was that I should understand the truth,
and I was willing to forsake all my errors,
when I found it. When we arose he faced
me again. I said, “You have had your say,
now I will have mine,” and straightway de-
clared that the calling of Joseph Smith was
divine, explaining it. Asserted that Moroni
was the angel spoken of by John and that
some ungrateful son, failing in his duty to
his parent, had nothing to do with the gos-
pel. And I won. The spirit that always ac-
companies the declaration of the truthful-
ness of the mission of Joseph Smith filled
the room and he quieted down. Before this
he had said that if I brought another tract
to his house, in the fire it would go. I
had then turned to his wife, and said, “I
pay for those tracts, and it would be a pity
to burn them,” and she handed them back
to me. Now he said, “if my wife desires
to read those tracts she may.” I handed them
to her again. While all this had been go-
ing on, their children had gathered in the
room, so that we had quite a little meeting;
all of whom were listening to this, to them,
strange conversation. We parted, in a most
friendly manner, the gentleman accompany-
ing me to the door. When we found it
was raining, he proffered me an umbrella,
but I always carried one on my arm. I
earnestly prayed over this man and his fam-
ily that night, plead with the Almighty to
aid him to see and understand the truth.
	Next day, as I was wont to do, I again
visited that row of houses, knocking at the
doors, where I had received no answer on
the previous day. What was my surprise
when the knock on a certain door was an-
swered by the aged minister (you can al-

[Column 2]
ways tell them by the low, round collar, and,
on the street the little low black hat), I had
met yesterday. “You do not live here?” I
nquired. “No, this is my son’s house who
is away. I came to see if all was right.”
“Did you read the tracts?” I asked. His
aged face was working convulsively, and his
hand trembled as he stretched it out to me
and said, “Have you some more tracts?”
The Spirit had borne witness to him of the
truth, and before me was the proof of the
anguish that will come to those who do not
obey it. “May I bring you the Book of
Mormon?” which he had not seen. “Yes.”
“May I bring the elders? You would en-
joy talking with them?” “No; I would
rather talk to you; you come again” Sol
placed him on my reading list of investi-
gators and soon called again, leaving some
more tracts, a Book of Mormon and Life
of Brigham Young. I called again in about
three weeks. The books were ready for
me, but I was informed that he was out,
but did not want any more literature. So
I never saw him again.
	The winter passed as did the one before.
It was so cold that often I did not know
whether I walked on sticks or feet. The
door mats in England are let into the floor,
on the inside, so that the door will open
over them. When I was so very cold, I
would ask the lady to let me stand on the
mat, while I talked to her about the tract I
had brought which introduced the Gospel.
“To be sure, come in,” she would some-
times say, and offer me a cup of tea, and a
piece of cake. I accepted a cup of hot water
quite often, with many thanks. Sometimes
she would let me warm my feet by the open
fire (always an open grate, and though the
fires of thousands of years have been going
up in the air, it is not warm yet outside,
and never very warm inside).
	My companion, Miss Farnsworth, lodged
not very far away from us, so we could
visit occasionally. It was rather a queer
household where we lived. The man, I felt
sure, was the black sheep of some aristo-
cratic family, who had married a barmaid.
(She was a gentle, sweet little woman, the
mother of two children). He tried some
of his charming ways upon us, but found
we were as coldly polite as any English
lady, so we won the wife’s respect, and
lived in her home as long as we remained
in Stratford. (I say her home, because he
was mostly away in London), and before
leaving England, when we called at the
house, we were informed that he was in
prison for some of his dark deeds, and his
wife had gone home to her father. Our
presiding elder held a priesthood meeting
once a week, which was a joy to us all, for
while the elders lived in Stratford we lived
in Leyton, a suburb, and did not see each
other except on Sundays. Comparing notes
and talking over our experiences, with
necessary instructions, we found very ben-
eficial. As soon as the weather permitted
we began our street meetings, where many
friends we had made came to hear us,
among them our landlady, who also came
to the hall the last Sunday evening we were
there. We had learned to love the saints
during our stay among them, and I trust
we had been a blessing to them. My health
was not the best. It was always damp on
the streets, either from rain or sprinkling,
so that I contracted a cold, perhaps from
inhaling the damp air; any way a severe

[Column 3]
cough seized me, which was hard for me,
and disagreeable to the folks in the house.
	In the latter part of March the Confer-
ence was called in London. Before leaving
we promised our landlady to come back to
her, if we were returned to Stratford. Are
those tarred with the same brush as our-
selves? How like oases in the desert are
these meetings to the missionary! In a city
where daily thousands of people thronged
the marts it was next to never we saw a fa-
miliar face. “By this ye shall know that
ye have passed from death unto life, if ye
love the brethren,” and sisters too, might
be added.
	This is in our thoughts as we meet again
in Conference. And this is to be our last
one in London, as well as that of the pres-
idency, they having been released to return
home. President McMurrin was away on
the Continent.
	We were returned to Stratford for the
time being, but President Lyman said we
would be released from field labor April 25
and he invited us to accompany them to
some of the Conferences, so that the saints
might see some of the sisters from Utah,
and we might have a little holiday before
our return home.
	The intervening time we spent in closing
up our work in Stratford, taking leave of
the friends we had made, and bidding fare-
well to the Saints who had done much to
make our stay among them pleasant I de-
voted much time to my class of investiga-
tors, to whom I was greatly attached One
lady said “there were prophets of old, and
I could not say there were to be no more;
if I had heard your doctrine before I made
my friends in life I believe I would have
embraced it.” Another said, “Well, good-
bye! I will look for you in the next world.”
“And I will look for you,” I said: “then
you will know that the testimony I leave
with you is true.” This solemn death
testimony was very strong and we reluc-
tantly parted from each other. I did not
go to see a woman where I once called with
a tract. “Come in,” she said, “I am pretty
good myself; often in the night I hear the
rustling of the angels’ wings.” Afterwards
I learned she was not a good woman, and
was warned not to go there.
	Many hundreds of tracts had been deliv-
ered in Stratford and as many testimonies
borne (as I never left a tract until I could
see the people and explain it). How many
of them will cast their lots with us in time
to come I know not. The seed has been
sown, in humility, prayer and tears, but
God it is who gives the increase We will
now leave it with him.
	One family of saints here have twined
themselves very closely around my heart.
In parting they clung to me weeping that I
must leave them. They appealed so much
to me that after my return home it was my
blessed privilege to bring them to Zion, rais-
ing the money by lectures and concerts,
some of the elders who labored in Strat-
ford (a part of London) lending their aid.
And they have done well, and, after several
years are still faithful and true. They num-
bered seven when I brought them out;
they now number ten: father, mother and
eight promising children. We left London
April 25, sailing from Stepney for Newcas-
tle-on-Tyne for the Conference.
