FREAKISH DRESS FOE TO SUFFRAGE.
	Mrs. Ida Husted Harper, author and lec-
turer, is quoted as saying:
	“Nothing has done so much harm to suf-
frage in the last fifty years as the way wom-
en have dressed themselves in the last year
or two. They have aroused general con-
tempt and criticism, and have made men say
everywhere that they have neither sense nor
judgment, and so are not fit to be trusted
with the ballot.
	“No woman who enters a great movement
can allow herself the same freedom she en-
joyed, before. She is no longer responsible
merely as an individual. She is the em-
bodiment of the cause she represents.
	“If she is a suffragist whatever silly thing
she does is charged up to suffrage by the
men. Therefore, I am convinced that no
one thing has hurt the suffrage cause so
much as the way women have dressed or un-
dressed in the last few years.
	“Their hats alone have made them the
laughing stock of the country. These ridic-
ulous objects are without excuse in either
shape or trimming, and they are made worse
by the wearing of long hatpins.
	“The most influential women have worn
dresses on the street and in public places in
which a woman of the demi-monde would
not have appeared a few years ago.
	“They are everywhere,” she said. “Al-
most every little town has would-be ‘smart’
women who parade the streets in all the
latest indecent eccentricities of fashion.
	“Of course, these women really form the
smallest proportion compared with the
working woman, the mother of families, and
the woman doing splendid service in
churches and other organizations. But, like
the froth and foam they are, they come to
the top. They show themselves in public
and assume a much larger place than they
really occupy. If they only injured them-
selves it would not be so bad, but they in-
jure every good thing other women try
to do and go a long way to counteract
the magnificent work women have actually
accomplished.”—From Chicago Tribune.


[Column 1]
		SELF-CONTROL.
	The following paper was read before the
Yellowstone Stake Relief Society:

	“Honor and fame from no condition rise,
	Act well your part, there all the honor lies.”

	True greatness is measured by the deeds
done or the good accomplished, not by the
amount of wealth possessed. We are placed
upon the earth to be tried and tested; we are
surrounded by environments of every na-
ture. There are those who are ready to help
us climb, and others who are anxious to pull

[Column 2]
us down. If we stand the test and reach a
standard of honor and usefulness, we must
learn to govern the impulses and passions of
human nature. We have many examples in
men and women who have attained success
and made the world better for their having
lived in it. I have in mind now a young
man who took for his ideals the great heroes
in history, and when problems confronted
him he would ask himself, what would these
great men have done under the same cir-
cumstances; consequently his life was a
great success, for,

	“Lives of great men all remind us
		We can make our lives sublime, 
	And departing, leave behind us,
		Footprints on the sands of time.”

	To make our lives successful and lay a
firm foundation for true greatness we must
be master of ourselves, for “He that is slow
to anger is better than the mighty: and he
that ruleth his spirit, than he that taketh a
city.”
	Then let us as individuals and as parents
strive to uphold the good, and discard every-
thing from our dispositions and our homes
that is not pure and clean and sweet. Let
us instill into the lives of our children those
three factors that go to make up a grand and
noble character—a knowledge of right and
wrong; an awakened strong conscience, and
a developed dominating will, for these con-
stitute self-control. A child to be self gov-
erning must learn to use its own reasoning
powers. Too often we decide for our chil-
dren. Teach them to grow up with the
power to discern right from wrong, and have
power to trample underfoot that which an
experienced conscience tells them is wrong.
Teach a child that it is possible to control
every appetite on impulse of its nature.
Teach it to say, “I can and I will obey the
laws of God and be of some use in the
world.” Picture to it the awfulness of doing
wrong and the misery caused through com-
mitting sin, then picture the joy, peace, and
contentment experienced through overcom-
ing evil and pleasing its Heavenly Father
and obeying its parents.
	If we force a child to do right because
we are stronger and can inflict pain upon its
little body, we only weaken its will power
or force it into rebellion. It is much bet-
ter never to punish in anger, but to govern
by love, and give a reason for the request
made. The child should be taught to do
right for right’s sake and not through fear
of punishment or ridicule. Punishment
should be resorted to only after everything
else has failed. Often a little patience and
perhaps a story will cause a child to choose
the right, when scolding or force would
cause him to submit but would implant a
rebellious spirit and a determination to have
his own way as soon as he is big enough to
resist compulsions.
	Will is the most important agent in the
formation of what we call character. A de-
veloped will is at the foundation of one’s
self mastery in every domain. A strong
will enables one to choose the right, and
every such choice strengthens character.
Stronger than heredity or environment, (in
determining a person’s destiny) is a man’s
own will.
	Surround the child with everything at
your command that will add to his strength
and enlarge his confidence in ultimate suc-
cess. The value of self-control is known
only to those who have mastered self. Happy
indeed is the man or woman, boy or girl,

[Column 3]
who has the power to resist temptation and
say yes or no at the right time. In the ex-
ercising of any of the virtues, such as po-
liteness, courtesy, patience, or in the faithful
performance of duty, self-control is an es-
sential. Any mother in going about her du-
ties realizes how necessary it is for the
peace, happiness, and contentment of all in
the home, that she be master of self. And
by so doing she would ever be an example
to her family and a light to their footsteps.

	“School thy feelings O my brother.
		Train thy warm, impulsive soul,
	Do not its emotions smother, 
		But Jet wisdom’s voice control.
	School thy feelings, there is power
		In the cool collected mind,
	Passion shatters reason’s tower,
		Makes the clearest vision blind.”
				JANETTE C. MILLER,
