SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH	-	 NOVEMBER, 1911


[Column 1]
JOHN HENRY SMITH—A TRIBUTE.
	Better than to be the conqueror of a city
or to rise to victorious heights by treading
the proud passages of human ambition, is
to lose selfishness in the service of God and
to fill one’s days with love of humankind.
Earthly glories and vanities flash and flat-
ter for a time, but soon pass away. En-
during happiness of the completest kind is
only to be gained in the way the Master in-
dicated: “Thou shalt love the Lord thy
God with all thy heart, and thy neighbor
as thyself.”
	This admonition is instinctively brought
to mind when one thinks of John Henry
Smith, servant of God and friend of human-
ity, whose mortal life ended on the 13th of
last month. He was indeed a man to be sin-
cerely mourned, for the relation he sustained
to those who knew him was of the personal,
intimate sort that makes the sense of be-
reavement heartfelt and deep. At some
men’s death we feel a consciousness of great
public loss—we stand stricken, as it were
afar off, in admiration of their conspicuous
talents, and wonderment as to where suc-
cessors shall be found to carry forward
worthily their mighty work. At other men’s
death, we bow in actual sorrow as when the
blow comes against one near and dear to us,
the wound being close to our own heart.
The latter feeling is the one notably mani-
fested at the removal of this beloved chief-
tain in Israel, John Henry Smith.
	Brother John Henry was in the best sense
an optimist. He never from choice looked
at the gloomy side of any situation. When
clouds really were dark and heavy, he was
still cheerful and full of hope. He carried
into his ripe manhood the buoyancy of
youth, to which no obstacle seems insur-
mountable. No weight of years could have
made him old; and his big boyish heart
found fitting place in his fine physical form,
and fitting expression in his warm and affec-
tionate manner. He was a believer in the
germ of goodness that is innate in every
soul, for he looked upon all men as his broth-
ers. He consigned no one to perdition for a
single sin or even a series of them, but with
warm handclasp and hearty words of cheer
he reached out after the erring and rejoiced
in their repentance; this while he abhorred
impurity and had no sympathy with any
form of wrong-doing. But his strong sense
of justice was always tempered with the
splendid attribute of mercy. No bigot he,
though knowing beyond peradventure that
many wilfully chose darkness rather than

[Column 2]
the light which he had received. Hence he
came to deserve the praise that was so gen-
erally accorded him, and mentioned prom-
inently at his obsequies,—he was tolerant
of other men’s beliefs and charitable to all
men’s weaknesses. This would be a hap-
pier world and a better, if there were more
like him in this respect.
	Perhaps no man ever had in more marked
degree than he the gift of making and re-
taining friends. It would be no less uncom-
plimentary than untrue to say he was with-
out enemies. The very qualities that lead
to enduring esteem are sure to provoke oc-
casional and sometimes bitter antipathies. Of
this good man, however, it may be truth-
fully said that while there may have been
those who disliked him, there was not one
against whom he treasured enmity. From
no person worthy of an honorable man’s
friendship was his withheld. And that,
after all, is as far as any man’s self-respect
and honorable sense should permit him to
go.
	It is not the purpose of these lines to in-
dulge in praise or panegyric of this departed
leader in Zion. The Saints all knew and
loved him. His days from infancy have been
spent among the people in these mountain
valleys, and his life has been an open book,
filled with good and faithful deeds, with
acts and words of helpfulness, with constant
devotion to the cause of Truth, with im-
pulses and motives alike an inspiration to the
young, and a comfort to the old, a faithful
soldier of the Cross gone to his sure re-
ward. He will be greatly missed and sin-
cerely mourned, and his memory will ever
be kept green in the hearts of the people
who loved him for the true man that he was.

	John Henry Smith was born near Kanes-
ville, now Council Bluffs, Iowa, Sept. 18,
1848. His parents were George A. and
Sarah Ann Libby Smith. George A. was a
cousin of the Prophet Joseph, their fathers
being brothers, Joseph’s father being Joseph,
and George A.’s father being John, and both
having filled the position of presiding patri-
arch of the Church. The infant John Henry
was brought by his parents to the Valley in
1849, where two years later his mother died,
after being an invalid for many years. He
was reared by his mother’s sister, Hannah
Maria, also a wife of his father, and was al-
ways proud to testify of the influence of this
good, forceful woman upon his life. His
boyhood years were spent in Provo, where
he received such meager educational oppor-
tunities as the schools of those early days af-
forded and he later became a telegraph oper-
ator, and was chosen counselor in the Fourth
ward bishopric. After the completion of the
transcontinental railroad, upon which he la-
bored in the employ of Benson, Farr and
West, he having married in 1866 a daughter
of one of the firm, Lorin Farr, he declined
the offer of a good railroad position in Cali-
fornia, and returned home, and during the
next few years traveled extensively among
the settlements of the Saints in company
with his father and President Young. He
was called on a mission to England in 1874,
but was hastily summoned home the next
year by reason of his father’s severe illness,
arriving only two weeks before that great
man’s death. He re-entered the railway em-
ploy, but was soon after ordained bishop of
the Seventeenth ward, Salt Lake City. He
was chosen an Apostle in October, 1880, and
two years later went again to England, as

[Column 3]
president of the European mission, returning
late in 1884. He became a member of the
First Presidency in April, 1910, after the
death of President John R. Winder, occupy-
ing this high position for a year and a half,
his death occurring suddenly from hemor-
rhage early on the morning of Friday, Oct.
13. Besides the ecclesiastical offices referred
to, he has held many important political and
business positions, being prominent in every
movement looking toward the advancement
of the state, and enjoying a nation-wide ac-
quaintance with and prominence among men
of affairs. In conventions and congresses
where leaders of men meet together to dis-
cuss public questions he was a well-known
and influential figure, and, as said above, had
an almost incomparable gift for making and
retaining friends.
						A. W. C.


