HOUSEHOLD HINTS.
	Following are some timely and well-
proven recipes:
	CRANBERRIES.—3 cups berries, 1 1/4 cups
sugar, 1 cup boiling water, cover and boil
ten minutes; this is not strained; jells nice-
ly, and keeps the bright color.
	FILLING FOR SQUASH PIE.—Two cups
of squash, one cup milk, 1/4 cup sugar, 1/2
teaspoonful salt, 1/4 teaspoonful cinnamon,
1/4 teaspoonful ginger, a little nutmeg and
2 eggs. This quantity makes two pies.
	DECORATIONS—In place of flowers, which
in winter time are expensive and hard to
obtain, a basket of fruit with ivy leaves
entwined makes a pretty and inexpensive
table decoration.
	MAHOGANY CAKE.—1/2 cup chocolate
grated and 1/2 cup milk boiled together, 1/2
cup of butter, 1 1/2 cups sugar, 2 cups flour,
3 eggs, 1/2 cup sweet milk, 1 level teaspoon-
ful of soda, 1 teaspoonful vanilla. Bake 30
minutes in moderate oven.
	ENGLISH PLUM PUDDING.—1 lb. brown
sugar, 1 lb. suet, 1 lb. bread crumbs, 1 lb.
raisins, 1 lb. currants, 1/4 lb. citron and lem-
on peel, 1/2 oz. each mace, cinnamon and
allspice, 1 nutmeg, 9 eggs (beat the yolks
and whites separately), 1 cup milk, enough
flour to make a nice stiff batter. Boil in
mould or bag from eight to ten hours the
first day, and four to six hours the day of
using.


[Column 1]
		OBITUARY NOTES.
		Mary Ann Whittle.
	At Richmond on the 5th of June, death called
Sister Mary Ann Whittle, one of the dear
faithful women of the Church. Sister Whittle
was a great sufferer from rheumatism and for

[Column 2]
many years past quite helpless. She bore her
affliction with great patience and gentleness of
spirit and fully appreciated the tender care of
her loving children. Sister Whittle was born
at Springfield, Ill., April 1st, 1839, came to
Utah with her parents in 1848, and has ever
been a faithful and consistent Latter-day
Saint.
		Christiana S. Rasmussen.
	Christiana Sorensen Rasmussen, secretary
of the Relief Society of Lyman, Utah, died on
the 29th of August.
	Sister Rasmussen was one of those faithful,
unselfish women, whose loss will long be great-
ly felt, for she was full of kindness and devo-
tion to all around her. She was a most un-
tiring and efficient laborer in the Relief So-
ciety, was a member of the ward choir and
a worker in the Sunday School. Sister Ras-
mussen was one of those devoted Saints who
pushed a hand-cart across the plains to join her
fate with the Latter-day Saints, and though
only seventeen years old when she came to
these valleys, was rich in testimony and faith.
She was a loving and tender wife and mother
and when left a widow at an early age proved
her strength of character in the manner in
which she reared her family of three boys to a
true and honest manhood.
	The memory of her faithfulness and integ-
rity are an inspiration and comfort to her fam-
ly.
			Mary Pratt Young.
	When the spirit of Mary Pratt Young an-
swered the final summons, one of Zion’s choic-
est daughters was called home.
	A woman of rare qualities of heart and mind
whose very presence was an inspiration and
whose words were always full of comfort, and
bespoke the thoughtful mind, Sister Mary
bore life’s trials gently and bravely and re-
joiced in all the good things that came to her
or hers. There could not be a more tender
mother, sister, friend or neighbor, and those
who knew her best loved her most. When the
Granite Stake Relief Society was organized Sis-
ter Young was made first counselor to Sister
Emma Woodruff, and filled that position with
an earnestness of effort not to be excelled.
	To quote Sister Woodruff’s own words we
can say, “There is nothing too good to be said
of her and we shall sadly miss her in our
work, and in our lives.”
	Mary Pratt Young was the daughter of Par-
ley P. Pratt and his wife Mary, and possessed
both the intellectual attainments and refine-
ment of manner so characteristic of her par-
ents. She died October 25th, 1911.
		Margaret H. Clark.
	Sister Margaret H. Clark, president of the
Panguitch Ward Relief Society, departed this
life May 20, 1911. Sister Clark was the daugh-
ter of James and Margaret Houston, and was
born Dec. 1, 1855 in Salt Lake City, Utah.
“Aunt Maggie,” as she was lovingly called,
was an exceptionally fine woman. As a wife
and mother she could scarcely be excelled,
being of a sweet, lovable disposition, firm and
steadfast in adhering to principle, and a wom-
an of great faith. Her home was ever a
clean, beautiful place of rest and comfort,
where friends and strangers alike found a
welcome. She was the wife of Riley G. Clark
who preceded her to the other side. They had
eleven children, seven of whom survive them.
	Sister Clark has held many positions of
trust and honor. She was the first president
of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Panguitch Ward, and
later a Stake officer in the Mutual. She acted
as a counselor in the Relief Society for many
years, and had acted as president but a few
months when called away by death; but dur-
ing those few months she was successful in
accomplishing a great work and made im-
provements which will be lasting. She will be
greatly missed by those with whom she was
associated.
	The following beautiful words, written by
Sister Emmeline B. Wells, apply most aptly
to our beloved president:
A saintly face and a great mother-heart,
So rich in grace and charity thou art.
That evermore our reverence shall be
A loving tribute to thy memory.
				MARIA L. SARGENT.
				MARIA L. HEYWOOD,
