EDITORIAL NOTES.
	The next number of the Exponent, the
issue for December, marks the closing of the
year, and the time seems appropriate for a
settlement of accounts. Subscribers will ad-
mit that we have been very lenient in push-
ing collections, and it is with reluctance that
the matter is hinted at now. But important
alterations and improvements in the paper
are in contemplation, for the carrying out
of which it is quite essential that all sub-
scription accounts be settled and all collec-
tions made. Feeling that our patrons will
understand the reasons for this urgency, we
trust they will exert themselves to comply
promptly with the request now made.
	The General Relief Society has been the
recipient of three handsome presents which
add to the adornment of these headquarters.
One is a very beautiful piece of needlework
by Mrs. Rebecca Brown, aged 75, in the
shape of an unfurled flag; the work is quite
remarkable, especially when one considers
the age of the lady. San Juan Stake Re-
lief Society sent a large Navajo rug, the
brightness of whose colors adds to the cheer-
fulness of the rooms. The Pine Grove ward
of Union Stake, Oregon, presents a sofa
pillow prettily done in white and blue. For
all these we are very grateful, and appre-
ciate the thoughtful givers.
	The selected chorus of two hundred
voices from the Tabernacle Choir have
made a most successful and enjoyable trip
to New York and other eastern points, and
return laden with immeasurable honor. The
daily papers followed their progress from
day to day, and it is not necessary to go into
any detail of the trip—only to assert our
own interest in the singers individually and
collectively. That Utah and her people
have been greatly benefited through this
trip is without question, for the world will
better realize how education and the arts are
encouraged here. The fact that the singers
were in New York to participate in the
exercises of the presentation of the silver
service to the battleship Utah was also a 
matter for congratulation; and the recep-
tion tendered the singers by the nation’s
Executive at the White House in Washing-
ton was a marked courtesy not shown to
many. It was also most fitting that on
their return trip they were able to assist in
the dedicatory services of the monument to
Oliver Cowdery, one of the three witnesses
of the Book of Mormon, at Richmond, Mo.
We join heartily in their welcome home.


[Column 1]
	NOTES ABOUT WOMEN.
	We must now revise our suffrage maps,
and get ready a big new star to be sewn
upon our suffrage flags. Nobody will
grudge the trouble.
	Alborg is the first Danish city where a
woman constable will soon appear in the
streets. She will wear ordinary dress, in-

[Column 2]
stead of uniform, and her special duty will
be to keep a sharp eye on persons of her
own sex.
	Mrs. Beatrice Forbes-Robertson Hale,
with her baby daughter, returned from Eu-
rope recently to take up her lecture work
for equal suffrage in this country. On the
voyage over, Mrs. Hale gave a suffrage ad-
dress that made a deep impression on her
fellow passengers.
	Miss Rogstead, the first woman to repre-
sent a constituency in the Norwegian Parlia-
ment, made her first speech before that body
a few days ago, and it is said that the entire
assembly rose when she began. A New York
paper facetiously remarked that such chiv-
alry was not displayed in the subway.
	Rabbi Ephraim Frisch, of Arkansas, in a
recent address, said: “We cannot have
enough of woman’s work and spirit in any
phase of our endeavors. Woman has be-
come the custodian and champion of our
very most precious possessions—our litera-
ture, our music, our art, our homes and our
children. Why should we fear extending to
her the privilege of voting?”
	The women town councillors are reported
to have won in the recent fight in Reykjavik,
the capital of Iceland. For several days
there was a deadlock in the town council
over the lighting of the city. All the men
members were in favor of electricity while
the women stood solidly for gas, because
they wished to use it for cooking also. Aft-
er considerable hesitation the mayor cast his
vote with the women.
	Vermont suffragists are appealing to busi-
ness men by means of display paid advertise-
ments in the leading newspapers, setting
forth the acknowledged merits of votes for
women as a means for advertising their
State. “Vermont men who love the freedom
which your fathers won for you,” reads
one, “pay your debt by winning freedom
for your daughters. Advertise Vermont by
getting votes for Vermont women!”—The
Woman’s Journal.
	The aptitude of women for vocations hav-
ing to do with fabrics has gained recognition
from one of the most famous textile schools
in the world, that in Grayfield, Germany.
Hitherto only men students have been ad-
mitted, but the bars have been lowered and
in behalf of an American girl, Bessie Ben-
nett, assistant director of the Chicago Art
Institute and curator of the museum. Al-
ready well versed in textiles, she will follow
special courses in the German institute on
invitation of the head of the school.
	Miss Edith Campbell, member-at-large of
the Cincinnati Board of Education, is a
graduate of the Cincinnati University,
where she took her master’s degree, and
also served for a year as instructor in eco-
nomics. She became Director of the
Schmidlapp Fund for Girls in 1908, and a
year later it was enlarged under her direc-
tion into an employment bureau for women
and girls. She has been much interested in
educational matters, the industrial school
for girls, and the Work Certificate Bureau,
conducted by the Board of Education, is un-
der the joint direction of Miss Campbell
and E. N. Clopper, Secretary of the National
Child Labor Commission for the Middle
Western States. She has also been greatly
interested in the Delaware Industrial Home
for Girls, the condition of which aroused


club women all over the country and caused
a personal visit to the place by Governor
Harmon and his wife, with the result that
conditions were much improved. 
	Miss Campbell’s victory gives her a three-
fold distinction. She is the first woman
elected to any public office in Cincinnati,
though several have been candidates before.
She is the first candidate ever elected to
the Board of Education in Cincinnati who
ran as an independent candidate, and she
goes on record as the first woman in the
United States for whom a President of the
United States cast his vote.


