[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: ANNA GARLIN SPENCER ON THE | Author: PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

ANNA GARLIN SPENCER ON THE
			WAR.

Providence, R. I., May 2, 1898.

To the Honprable Nelson W. Aldrich, and
	Messrs. Westmore, Bull, and Capron,
Senators and Representatives from Rhode
Island in the Congress of the United
States:
Respected Sirs—This communication is


addressed to you from a portion of your
constituency, namely “The Local Council 
of the Women of Rhode Island,” which is 
a delegate body representing thirty-one of
the leading educational, charitable and re-
formatory associations and institutions of 
the State and of the city of Providence 
which are managed by women, or in which 
women are prominent as officers and voting
members.
	At an executive session of this Council of
Women held April 4, the delegates present 
(representing sixteen of those organizations) 
passed unanimously the following resolu-
tions, and ordered them forwarded to you, 
Honorable Gentlemen, as the persons just 
now charged with the duty of representing 
our State in the National Government: 
	Resolved, That the women of this Coun-
cil here present view, with deep concern the 
present situation of our country in respect 
to Spanish-Cuban affairs. 
	That we beg our Rhode Island members 
of Congress to remember that the strength 
of self-control, the dignity of patience and 
the calm of balanced judgment alone give 
lasting power to a nation, as to an indi-
vidual; and we beg them also to remember 
that the gospel of universal brotherhood has 
supreme right of way in all social and ethi-
cal questions, and, therefore, that the uni-
versal peace, which is the final expression
of that gospel, should be considered sacred 
in all the deliberations of this hour, while 
the command to be “first pure” and just,
“then peaceable,” should not be ignored 
when Cuba’s sufferings and the loss of our 
own brave men stir all hearts to righteous
indignation.
	That as patriots and philanthropists we
earnestly desire to see the end of all cruelty 
and wrong; but as “human beings of the 
mother sex,” pledged by virtue of our office 
to full regard for the sacredness of human 
life and against the methods of war, we 
plead that all possible means for a peaceable 
ending of such cruelty and wrong be ex-
hausted before recourse is had to the sword, 
which, when wielded in any cause, even 
the most righteous, brings moral confusion, 
social degradation, family bereavement and 
financial loss to both the avenger and the 
evil-doer whose deeds are thus avenged. 
		ANNA GARLIN SPECNER, 
President of the Local Council of the Wo-
	men of Rhode Island. 
Mrs. E. E. Hill, Miss E. I. Nichols Secretaries,


MISS JANE ADDAMS of Chicago, in the
April International Journal of Ethics, has
an article entitled “Ethical Survivals in
Municipal Corruption.”
	A  NEW law requires all public school dis-
tricts of New York State to supply public
schools with flags, which must be displayed
during school hours on or near the schools
house.
	CLARA BARTON has started for Cuba
again with an army of women. They car-
ry food for the starving, clothing for the
naked, medicine for the sick and succor for
the dying. Surely such soldiers as Red
Cross women deserve to be voters!
	SOROSIS celebrated its thirtieth birthday
last week. The subject discussed was
"The Woman with Power." Miss Helen
M. Winslow of the N. E. W. P. A., who
was present, spoke of Lucy Stone as an ex-
ample of the woman with power, and the
allusion called out warm applause.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT. 
WOMAN'S EXPONENT
	EMMELINE B. WELLS, - 	-	 Editor.
	ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor. 

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months, 
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts. 
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil 
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis- 
count regular advertisers. 
	EXPONENT office, Room 208 Templeton, South Tem-
ple Street. Buisness hours From 10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every 
day, except Sunday. 
Address all business communications to 
	PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT
						Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as 
second-class matter. 

