[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: EDITORS AND PEOPLE WHO READ. | Author: Unknown]

EDITORS AND PEOPLE WHO READ.

	One who is engaged in newspaper work
cannot help thinking and feeling that the
people in whose interest this class of toilers
labor are very unappreciative. No matter
how earnest and diligent the efforts of editors
and reporters whose time, thought and
energies are literally absorbed in what can be
done to advocate, instruct and reform, to
keep their readers abreast of the times and
acquainted with such matters as come within
their particular province, it seems to be one
and the same unless financial success is se-
cured.
	The few who are always prompt with sub-
scriptions wonder how it can possibly be that
the paper is not more prosperous, and those
who do not trouble about paying, or move
from place to place and never pay up are
o[-]ten aggrieved at this and that, and when
newspapers are so amply illustrated many
think it an actual hardship to pay for some-
thing not so progressive, or so much in
keeping with these days of sensational
literature and pictorial illustrations, and there-
fore a very plain, modest, unassuming paper
that comes directly into the home life with-
out any flourishes or ostentation is considered
of little or no consequence, and does not
please the public.
	Financial success is not the rule in the
line of work followed by women's papers
generally, who advocate reform, in fact it is
the execption and not the rule. During
the last few years many of the newspapers
and magazines published by women have
had to suspend and others that are still strug-
gling, labor under heavy encumbrances and
great responsibilities.
	The Woman’s Journal of Boston per-
haps (and indeed we might be justified in
saying) the most popular and most widely
circulated of any woman's paper in America,
entered upon its 29th year in January last,
and in an editorial note records the fact that
in 1870 when it was founded, £2,000 was
raised irom friends of the movement by the
editor, and founder, Lucy Stone, for its
capital. Within the first two years all that
capital was expended and further financial
aid was needed and was forthcoming.
And moreover it is stated “that the Woman’s
Journal has never been self-supporting. Al-
most every year its friends have had to meet
a deficit.” The recompense is in the posi-
tive advance in public sentiment, the change
of laws, customs and opinions, co-education
and various other concessions and reforms in
the establishment of political equality, munic-
ipal and school government and in every way

[Column 2]
helping on the people along these lines of
higher thought, higher education and great-
er enlightenment.
	Those who are familiar with the business
matters of the papers published in Salt Lake
City know what financial embarrassments
there have been to battle with, and how diffi-
cult it has been to keep going.
	To come down to the little paper, the
“Woman’s Exponent,” and tell its readers
how it has championed the cause of the wo-
men of this intermountain region would take
far too much time and space. Certainly
the Latter-day Saint women ought to know
and to realize that the greatest efforts have
been and are being made to keep it alive;
and surely its record has been for the eleva-
tion and education of women along all the
lines of progressive thought and general in-
formation, and the encouragement of home
industries and home culture.
	As a matter of fact some of the ablest
authors and writers among the young people
began their literary work in the columns of
the “Woman’s Exponent.” The letters that
have been received from time to time show-
ing the interest taken in this little paper are
proof direct of the importance of its mission
to those outside of the Church; and to the
sisters and Elders on missions there is abun-
dant testimony of its value. Recently the
editor received a letter from Amsterdam ask-
ing that a complete file of the “Woman’s
Exponent” be furnished for the Exhibition
which will be held at the Hague during the
coming summer of Woman’s Industries and
subjects concerning the woman’s question.
This is the fifth call of this kind, though it
is the first from a foreign country, and will
be responded to as soon as possible.
	This number of the paper completes the
26th year of its publication, and what ad-
vantage it has been to the women of this
region of country and particularly to the 
women of Zion can never be estimated.
However, let us all hope that the future
may be more hopeful, and that those en-
gaged in the various branches and along
the several lines of woman’s work and pro-
gressive thought may see the importance of
a paper that makes a specialty of recogniz-
ing women’s organizations and of keeping
in touch with the interests of women
generally and encouraging all higher, purer
and better living according to higher laws
in the home and in the great world of man-
kind.


[Column 1]
