[WomansExponent | Vol26 | 1897 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING. | Author: Unknown]

LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	Minutes of the Ladies Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall Saturday, April 16, 1898. Singing
“Oh say what is truth.” Prayer by Sister
Margaret P. Young. Singing “O, my
Father.” Counselor E. J. Stevenson pre-
sided. The minutes of the previous meet-
ing were unavoidably omitted.
	Sister Stevenson expressed her regret at
the absence of President Horne and urged
the sisters to pray that all things might be
over-ruled for good in these troublous times,
that if our young men were called out to
war they might be preserved from harm.
Referred to our late conference, thought we
had never before had such a good one where
so much good instruction was given.
	Sister Carrington prayed that the sons of
Zion might be preserved in these trying
times.
	Sister Hannah Wright felt it was good
for us to meet together, knew we would
have a good meeting, spoke upon the war
cries and expressed her fears, but said the
Lord had promised that “there should be
peace in Zion.”
	Sister Brixen spoke of her enjoyment of
the conference, felt very thankful for this
and felt that if our young men were called
out to war the ones who kept the word of
wisdom would be preserved. Said she was
going away to gather her genealogy, prayed
that she might be blessed in going and
bore a strong testimony.
	Sister Mary Ann Hardy spoke of reading
the Voice of Warning, and what a grand
book it was and the amount of good teach-
ing there was in it.
	Sister Julia C. Howe felt very thankful
for the privileges she enjoyed in the Gospel,
knew they were very great, and quoted the
Bible in regard to war wherein it said that
“the wicked should slay the wicked.” Said
we should pray for peace rather than war,

[Column 2]
felt if the mothers and grandmothers prayed
earnestly, that our sons would not be called
out to war, but if they were that they
would be preserved, testified that God did
hear and answer prayers and felt that Presi-
dent McKinley was very wise in taking the
course, he had.
	Sister Armeda Young spoke of teaching
our children to be peace-makers instead of
the reverse, knew there was much responsi-
bility resting upon the mothers.
	Sister Maria Nebeker said that God had
promised to be a husband to the widow,
this she had seen literally fulfilled in her
own case. Spoke of the war and said God
had promised to fight our battles, felt if our
young men were called out they would be
looked after as they were in olden times.
Said we were all in the hands of the Lord,
and prayed He would look down in mercy
upon us.
	Dr. E. S. Barney spoke of a meeting she
attended of sisters and after the meet-
ing many of them came up to her for a
blessing, and how the Spirit of the Lord
was poured out upon her, also spoke on the
war. Spoke of patriarchal blessings, urged
the sisters to have them and said there was
virtue in them. Spoke of faith, said we,
should cultivate it more than we did and
made many instructive remarks.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde felt impressed to
read the 98th section of the Doctrine and
Covenants, felt it was applicable to the pres-
ent time and thought President McKinley
had unknowingly carried out this plan.
Felt that every mother who prayed earnest-
ly to the Lord that her son would be pre-
served from harm if he were pressed into
service, would have her prayer answered.
	Sister Clara C. Cannon bore a strong
testimony, felt impressed that our sons
would not be called upon for active service,
we need not fear for the Lord was with us
and would continue to bless us, felt to re-
joice through it all and prayed the Lord
would bless every mother and give her.
peace.
	Counselor Elizabeth Webb knew we
were greatly blessed that we could meet
here in peace when all is strife and war
outside, felt our sons would be preserved,
for the Lord’s care was over us. Testified
that there was a mighty power in prayer,
made many beautiful remarks and urged
the sisters to be faithful in their Relief
Society labors, it would benefit them.
	A sister in the congregation who was a
stranger said she would feel condemned if
she did not express her feelings. Although
a stranger in our midst she could feel the
same sweet spirit that always attends such
meetings.
	Counselor Stevenson felt we had had a
very enjoyable and beneficial time, made
some closing remarks, and meeting ad-
journed for two weeks by singing “Satan’s
empire long has flourished,” and benedic-
tion by Sister E. S. Taylor.
