[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 64 | PDF Page 65]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 87% | Novel words: 8%]

--- PAGE 64 (PDF page 65) ---
JANUARY 1965

tance, but their lot will be found among the unbelievers where there are wailing and gnashing of teeth. (Verses 9-11.) The consequences of disobedience are serious indeed when one considers the penalty imposed upon the children of the priest. (Ezra 2:61-63.) They shall be cut off from the ordinances of the house of the Lord, and from their fathers who are dead and who were faithful. The separation of fathers, mothers, and children in eternity with the loss of eternal life, is far more serious than some members of the Church are prone to consider. President Joseph F. Smith in discussing this matter was emphatic, as brought out in this lesson, that Section 85 not

only has reference to the law of consecration but also to the law of tithing because it took the place of the former law. (Conference Report, October 1899, page 42.)

QUESTIONS FOR DISCUSSION

1. Tell what circumstances brought forth Section 85.
2. Why would you believe that letters can be scripture?
3. What relationship is there between the book of life and the book of the law?
4. Discuss: Section 85 is a commandment to observe the law of tithing.
5. What is the still small voice and who may enjoy its promptings?
6. What does the Lord say in Section 85 about the penalty of disobedience to his commandments?

VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE
Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants

Christine H. Robinson

Message 63 — "For They Shall Be Judged According to Their Works, and Every Man Shall Receive According to His Own Works . . ."
(D&C 76:111).

For First Meeting, April 1965

Objective: To be counted worthy and to receive the commendation of the Lord, our lives must be filled with fruitful actions.

ONE of the most clearly established facts outlined in the scriptures is that men shall be judged by their works. Both ancient and modern scriptures are replete with statements supporting this fact. The Savior in his parables and in his sermons frequently stressed the importance of performing good works. He said, "Ye

64
