[Vol52 | October | Magazine Page 790 | PDF Page 827]

--- PAGE 790 (PDF page 827) ---
OCTOBER 1965

a daughter of God through ordinances performed by a bearer of the Priesthood who is delegated to act with authority? What are the occasions which bring into focus these specific blessings?

1. Blessing as an infant.
2. Baptism and confirmation.
3. Receiving a patriarchal blessing.
4. Administration by Priesthood in times of illness.
5. Other special blessings.
6. Personal endowment.
7. Celestial marriage.
8. Opportunity to perform vicarious temple work for the dead.
9. Set apart by Priesthood when giving specific callings in the Church.

From the above listed blessings we see that from infancy to the end of earth-life and into eternity, a Latter-day Saint girl-child is a recipient of numerous and specific blessings through the Priesthood of God.

As an infant she may receive a father's blessing and a name by which she will be known among her associates. This ordinance is performed by authority of the Priesthood. Her baptism and confirmation with the bestowal of the Holy Ghost admit her into the Church. These blessings are special blessings, received only through the delegated power of the Priesthood.

As her father and brothers who bear the Priesthood, she, too, may be given a patriarchal blessing which may be a guide, inspiration, and comfort to her throughout her life. She may receive the administration of the Priesthood in times of illness or on other occasions, when the sustaining influence and help of the Lord through the authority of the Priesthood are especially needed.

She may realize how her own abilities are augmented as a result of her faith in the Priesthood, when a blessing is given her if she is set apart for some specific calling in the Church.

The opportunity of entering the House of the Lord in receiving her own endowments and the opportunity of the sacred ceremony of celestial marriage are two of the greatest of God's blessings to her. By the side of the companion of her choice, the Latter-day Saint woman may experience the culminating Priesthood ordinance in this life, the efficacy of these ordinances being dependent upon faithfulness.

BLESSINGS AVAILABLE

The home where husband or father holds and honors the Priesthood, is greatly blessed. All family relationships are influenced for good, all problems tempered where parents seek the help and guidance to which the Priesthood entitles them.

For those women whose husbands have not as yet embraced the gospel truth, there are still blessings derived from Priesthood which are available to them, such as baptism, confirmation, the patriarchal, and other special blessings. Upon them perhaps rests a greater responsibility—to rear their children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord as this opportunity is available to them. They may also enjoy the counsel of their Home Teachers and of their bishops who have been commissioned to use their Priesthood for the benefit and blessing of members of the ward.

790