[Vol52 | October | Magazine Page 726 | PDF Page 763]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 87% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 726 (PDF page 763) ---
OCTOBER 1965

President Brigham Young had this thought concerning the use of water, which stresses the importance of the complete covering of water as a true sign of coming forth into a newness of life: "In the last book of the New Testament," the statement is made, "that in the beginning God cursed the earth; but did he curse all things pertaining to it? No, he did not curse the water; he blessed it. Pure water is cleansing—it serves to purify, and you are aware that the ancient saints were very tenacious with regard to their purification by water."

In order to answer to the likeness of the dead, that one principle might accord with the other, "the ordinance of baptism by water," declared the Prophet Joseph Smith, is, "To be immersed in the water and come forth out of the water in the likeness of the resurrection of the dead in coming forth out of their graves. . . ." The Prophet, speaking further of baptism by immersion, as the more complete symbol of death, burial, and resurrection, stated: "Immersion is certainly a correct figure, and represents his burial and resurrection exactly. It is a better symbol of it, at all events, than the symbol of sprinkling,—for ask all common sense, how a man can be baptized into Jesus Christ,—'baptized into his death'—be 'buried with him by baptism into death,'—and be planted together 'in the likeness of his death,' in

a single drop or even a bucket of water. It is an impossibility."

The historic accounts of the ordinance of baptism of Adam the first man, and of Jesus of Nazareth, the Only Begotten of the Father in the flesh, by immersion, as the complete symbol of death, burial, and resurrection, together with the numerous scriptural references in both the Holy Bible and The Book of Mormon, which assert this mode of baptism, should leave no doubt in any open mind of the validity of the Fourth Article of Faith in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints: "We believe the first principles and ordinances of the gospel are: First, Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ; (2) Repentance; (3) Baptism by immersion for the remission of sins; (4) Laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost."

The Dual Nature of Baptism

The ordinance of baptism by immersion in water, has, from the beginning, been a symbol of "cleansing" and "washing" pertaining to a remission of sin. Even when the fulness of the gospel was not among men, because of their wickedness and rebellion against God, the practice of baptism solely for repentance and a remission of sin has been practiced. Of this nature were the baptisms performed by John the Baptist, the forerunner of the Christ. But in the fulness of baptism, in addition to the remission of sin of those who worthily, by faith and repentance, obtain this ordinance, there is the covenant and promise, which the Prophet Joseph Smith, as already stated, proclaimed to be, "a sign

[footnotes]
JD., Brigham Young, Vol. 7, page 162.
Times and Seasons, Vol. 4, page 595.
Times and Seasons, Vol. 4, page 622.
Moses 6:60.
Matthew 3:13-16.
John 3:23; Acts 8:39; Romans 6:3-5.
3 Nephi 11:23-26.
Fourth Article of Faith.
See D&C 84:26-27.
See Matthew 3:11.

726
