[Vol52 | September | Magazine Page 664 | PDF Page 697]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 664 (PDF page 697) ---
SEPTEMBER 1965

up at the Doctor. His eyes were soft, and it seemed to her that he was almost ready to smile that big smile of his again, but it was just a pleasant smile . . . a little smile.

"Do you know what he was doing when I got there?"

"No."

"He was sitting in a chair with some kind of a schoolbook on his lap."

"He was?"

"Yes. He said you had given him the book."

"Yes . . . I . . ."

"I wouldn't get my hopes up too high, Miss Morgan, these cases are changeable, but I think you have made good progress."

"Oh, thank you, Doctor. I hope so."

"Now, if you'll just look those papers over this evening, I'll expect a report in the morning."

Joan thanked him. "I'll have them ready," she said and tried to hold her voice calm, though there was a happy little tune trying to bubble from between the words she spoke.

Suddenly Joan felt hungry. She hurried to the lunchroom. I hope they haven't closed, I'm so late for the lunch hour, she

thought. She also hoped she would see someone to talk to. Doctor Dean Desmond would do just fine. She wanted to tell him how Tom was. . . . She wanted to let him know that, at last, she was getting through to Tom.

Joan entered the room and looked around. There were a lot of late diners. She spotted Miss Jackson and Doctor Desmond sitting in a corner of the room. She decided not to bother them. She had picked up a tray when she heard it—the piercing sound of the ambulance. At first it was so small a sound that she knew the ambulance was still blocks away from the hospital, then as it came closer, the sickening scream filled her whole being. She quickly looked around her. No one else had seemed to hear it. Everyone was still eating and quietly talking. Why had the sound cut through her like this? She certainly had heard dozens before. She put her tray down and hurried towards the emergency entrance.

The ambulance was carrying someone she knew . . . she was sure of that, for long ago, in the night, she had heard the siren just like this.

(To be continued)

[decorative flourish]

French Twist
June F. Krambule

Little hands with sculptor's way,
    What fame you'll someday win.
I find it evidenced each day:
    The shapes I find my hairpins in!

664
