[Vol52 | March | Magazine Page 188 | PDF Page 197]

--- PAGE 188 (PDF page 197) ---
The Red Cross and Its Field of Service

Robert W. Sarnoff
Volunteer National Co-Chairman
1965 Campaign for Members and Funds
The American Red Cross

If any one word typifies the Sixties, the word is change. The American Red Cross is busy reassessing and readjusting to new circumstances and developments.

While its traditions of service remain constant, the Red Cross has taken two especially significant steps to expand and improve services. One innovation is the grouping of metropolitan and surrounding chapters into cooperative arrangements called "combined service territories." Through this plan, existing volunteer and staff resources of each Red Cross chapter are available to all chapters in the area, enabling them better to serve disaster victims, the mushrooming suburbs, and other emerging needs.

The second vital change involves the updating of the volunteer structure in Red Cross chapters. Under the new plan, volunteers receive a basic training course followed by additional training for the specific job they are going to do. With this approach, volunteers will be able to vary their service according to their talents and available free time. They will be able to meet changing needs of people who require Red Cross help.

Last autumn, the ARC Board of Governors issued an official mission statement for the organization.

The American Red Cross is the instrument chosen by the Congress to help carry out the obligations assumed by the United States under certain international treaties known as the Geneva or Red Cross Conventions. Specifically, its Congressional charter imposes on the American Red Cross the duties to act as the medium of voluntary relief and communications between the American people and their armed forces, and to carry on a system of national and international relief to prevent and mitigate suffering caused by disasters.

All the activities of the American Red Cross and its chapters support these duties.

Nationally and locally the American Red Cross is governed by volunteers, most of its duties are performed by volunteers, and it is financed by voluntary contributions.

The new Red Cross theme for 1965, "Join Up—Join In," conveys the two ways the American people can help their neighbors and their friends around the world. The slogan emphasizes that in making a contribution every citizen becomes a member of the American Red Cross. In addition, it urges everyone to "Join In" by becoming an active volunteer, giving his time and skills to the many services carried on by the Red Cross.

188