[Vol52 | November | Magazine Page 832 | PDF Page 873]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 0%]

--- PAGE 832 (PDF page 873) ---
NOVEMBER 1965

with nothing on it but a few blue lights. Pretty enough, but not for a child's Christmas. Of course, if his mother didn't work things might be different.

SHE knew Marcia, his mother, hadn't come home yet. So she asked them to sit down and passed them a box of candy the store had given her. Once more the man hesitated, saying he was not sure Paul's mother would approve.

"But it is . . . Christmas," Annie said, "we have to make a few exceptions."

"Yes," he agreed, his lips growing a little tight. Then, as though she had reminded him of something, he reached into his pocket and took out a small, carefully wrapped box. "Would you mind giving her this? Just a remembrance. . . ."

She could hardly swallow for the pity that caught her throat. She answered, "Why don't you give it to her yourself? She's coming up the steps now. I can always tell when it is she. She comes so quickly, as if she can't wait to get home to her little boy."

"She does?" he asked. "I thought she loved her job."

Annie couldn't do any more than shake her head before she was at the door, calling to the blonde young woman, stopping her. Marcia came in. Her child rushed to her arms, saying, "Mommie! Daddy's here. Look at the tree." The girl, still young and pretty enough to be a bride, flushed as she saw the square-built, athletic looking man stand up and speak, "Hi, Marcia," giving her a quizzical little smile

that could have meant so many things.

"Will you excuse me just a moment?" Annie asked them, "I must see to my cookies." She had baked them earlier and their fragrance was still in the air. She decided to put them in the cookie jar, to leave them alone. When she came back into the room, the couple was standing before the tree, the child holding the hand of each of them. She looked at them and somehow remembered the mother and father of Jesus, the following of the star; the ordeal at his birth; their going together to the temple in search of him. Parenthood was not something to be taken lightly. Oh, this girl, this young man, might have been her children. This small boy might have been her grandchild. They weren't of course. But maybe she could help them. As if she had just thought of it, she asked, "Why don't you come back later for some cookies?"

"Tonight?" he questioned, whirling around.

She paused before saying, "Well, why not make it tomorrow night, Christmas Eve? And why don't you come for supper with me. I've a great big goose that will be stuffed with prunes and apples. You and your mother. . . ."

"And my Daddy, too?" Somehow, she knew Paul would pick up the cue.

"Yes, and your Daddy, too." The man looked at his wife—hopefully. She looked into their child's beseeching eyes. She shrugged, "Why not? But you must let me help you with something. . . ."

"There may be just plenty to

832
