[Vol52 | October | Magazine Page 789 | PDF Page 826]

--- PAGE 789 (PDF page 826) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

Son and the Holy Ghost, and act legitimately" (WHITSOE, JOHN A.: Priesthood and Church Government, page 33).

They are familiar with the statement that "the Church itself is a product of Priesthood" and the means through which the Eternal Father accomplishes his divine purposes.

LESSON FOLLOW-UP

Invite several members of the class to report on their efforts to make their 1965 observation of Christmas more meaningful and in keeping with its purpose, as suggested in the December lesson.

THIS LESSON

Since the first unit of Priesthood quorum lessons deals with the subject of Priesthood, this lesson will likewise deal with some phases of this great power. It will be, of necessity, largely doctrinal, and will consider

1. Priesthood as an eternal blessing to all of God's children.
2. The specific blessings of Priesthood in which a woman may share.

PRIESTHOOD AN ETERNAL BLESSING TO ALL

President Brigham Young had this to say about the Priesthood of the Son of God:

... it is the law by which the worlds are, were, and will continue for ever and ever. It is that system which brings worlds into existence and peoples them, gives them their revolutions—their days, weeks, months, years, their seasons and times and by which they are rolled up as a scroll, as it were, and go into a higher state of existence (Discourses of Brigham Young, page 130).

The power of all truth dwells in the bosom of our Father and God, which he dispenses to his children as he will, by the means of his eternal Priesthood. He is enthroned in the light, glory and power of truth. ... The Gospel and the Priesthood are the means he employs to save and exalt his obedient children to the possession with him of the same glory and power to be crowned with crowns of glory, immortality and eternal lives (Ibid., page 5).

It is impossible for us to comprehend the full significance of the foregoing quotations. It is clearly evident, however, that all who live upon the earth, female as well as male, are beneficiaries of the blessings of the Priesthood.

Men have no greater claim than women upon the blessings that issue from the Priesthood and accompany its possession. Woman does not hold the Priesthood, but she is a partaker of the blessings of the Priesthood. That is, the man holds the Priesthood, performs the priestly duties of the Church, but his wife enjoys with him every other privilege derived from the possession of the Priesthood (WHITSOE, JOHN A.: Priesthood and Church Government, page 83).

It is evident that a woman is blessed by this great, eternal power because she is a daughter of God. The following scripture, moreover, among others, indicates that the blessings do not apply to this world only. She always has been a recipient of these blessings and, if obedient to the gospel teaching, will be blessed through the power of the Priesthood throughout eternity.

"Now this same Priesthood, which was in the beginning, shall be in the end of the world also" (Pearl of Great Price, Moses 6:7).

SPECIFIC BLESSINGS IN MORTALITY

What are the specific blessings of Priesthood which may come to

789