[Vol52 | July | Magazine Page 552 | PDF Page 577]

--- PAGE 552 (PDF page 577) ---
JULY 1965

own backgrounds. Approaching literature in this manner, not afraid of it but eager to explore it, will help us discover in it not only beauty and delight but also wisdom and truth.

The lesson for this month covers four selections—two very short poems, a fairly long poem, and a short story. All are concerned with the complex relationships between good and evil in human experience, and, especially, with man's efforts to overcome evil and promote good. As indicated in the introductory comments on page 283 of the text, probably literature has explored no other subject so much as the relationship between good and evil in the universe, with the related problem of sin and redemption from sin, and this is especially true of the great works of literature. Indeed, the most challenging questions that have faced thinking men through the ages in religion and philosophy, as well as in literature, have often had their roots in the nature of good and evil in relation to each other and in relation to God and man. As members of the Church, we are fortunate in having special insight into these problems through the inspired writings of our modern prophets; in addition we can profit from what wise men of literature have had to say.

The Tiger. To plunge us dramatically into the whole subject of the problem of evil in the universe, we start with the little poem by William Blake (English poet, 1757-1827) called "The Tiger," which is printed, with fuller notes than given here, on page 285 of the text. And in connection with our reading of "The Tiger" we probably should review Blake's companion poem," "The Lamb," printed on page 91 of the text. The contrast between the two poems is vivid and strong. "The Lamb" is a tender, lovely poem, fragile in artistry and reverent in tone. "The Tiger" is fierce and grim, but the contrast goes far beyond just a difference in language and tone. The reader easily sees that the lamb is a symbol of all that is beautiful and good in the world, whereas the tiger is a symbol of all that is destructive and evil. The key line in "The Tiger," linking the two poems together and thrusting to the heart of the problem they explore, occurs in the fifth stanza: "Did He who made the Lamb make thee?" Blake is asking, did God, the Creator of all that is good in the world, also create evil? What is the source of evil in the universe? Blake does not answer the question—at least not in this poem. He simply asks it, leaving the reader to ponder. As Latter-day Saints we know that God does not cause evil. The Lord's plan for the salvation of his children, however, provides for the presence of evil in the world and the means of meeting and overcoming it.

Dark in the Forest, Strange As Time. Exploring further into the complex problem is Thomas Wolfe's luxuriantly written short story "Dark in the Forest, Strange As Time," printed, with a full discussion, on pp. 287-301 of the text. The story is complex in both the rich artistry of its prose style and the multiplicity of its meanings, as discussed in the text more fully

552