[Vol52 | February | Magazine Page 98 | PDF Page 102]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 98 (PDF page 102) ---
AMONG STRANGERS

New York and we're going to him now." Somehow that didn't sound right, either.

"Left you, did he?" said the old man in the cowboy hat and boots.

"No, no," Janet said, her cheeks flushing. "You don't understand. He went east to study."

"Hah?" said the old man, cupping his hand to his ear. "I don't hear so well."

Janet twisted around to explain, but just then the visitor dropped his carrot, and there was a grand scramble as the boys looked for it. By the time they found it, Susan was fussing about something, and Janet decided the time for explaining the misunderstanding had passed. She huddled down in her seat, trying to ignore everyone. She fancied they whispered about her — the lady whose husband left her. Well, she didn't care. They were only strangers.

The other boy gave Danny a bite of his now-grimy carrot, and they became fast friends, playing happily — and noisily — until the boy's mother came looking for him to take him for an ice-cream cone. She offered to take Danny along, but Janet said no, not wanting Danny to go off with someone she didn't know.

Now Danny was sick. Despite Janet's efforts to soothe him, his soft whimpering became louder until plaintive wails drowned out the old man's snores.

"Sh, honey," Janet whispered. "People are trying to sleep."

The woman in the red muu-muu awakened and peered over the top of her seat.

"I'm sorry we disturbed you," Janet apologized.

"Is the little fellow sick?" the woman asked.

"I'm afraid so." Tears welled in Janet's eyes at the unexpected kindness of the woman's tone.

THE woman reached over and felt Danny's head.

"Goodness, he's burning up," she said. She heaved herself out of her seat and came around to stand in the aisle, searching in her capacious handbag until she found a tiny flashlight. She shined the light on Danny's face, which was decidedly flushed. She pried his mouth open to peer inside.

"Are you a nurse?" Janet asked hopefully.

"No," said the woman, "but I reared eight children and got a lot of what you call practical experience." She chuckled a little, then became serious.

"You've got a sick lad there. Wonder if there's a doctor on the train."

"Whatsa matter?" rumbled the old man in the cowboy hat, awakening with a start.

"Boy's sick," said the woman.

"Hah?" said the old man.

"Sick," shouted the woman.

"Huh? Who's sick?" demanded a sleepy, feminine voice.

"Little boy up here," said the woman in the red muu-muu.

The girl in the black pleated skirt and sweater came and bent over Janet.

"I'm sorry we awakened you," Janet said.

"That doesn't matter," said the girl. "Can I help?"

"Want me to go see if I can round up a doctor?" asked the old man.

97
