[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 37 | PDF Page 38]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 37 (PDF page 38) ---
Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

Mrs. Dorothy Lewis, President of the American Mothers Committee, is sponsoring the organization of Young Mothers Councils in many cities of the United States. In Salt Lake City, Utah, in October, Mrs. Lewis declared: "Today's mother cannot cope with her young children's discipline problems because she herself likely has had little or no discipline shown her. Parental delinquency is at the root of this trouble. Youths need spiritual training, concepts of conformity to law — within and without the family." While in Salt Lake City, Mrs. Lewis called on Relief Society General President Belle S. Spafford, a close friend, and was taken on a tour of the Relief Society building.

Mrs. Carma Noble, Hurricane, Utah, mother of seven children, is the leader of a remarkable beautification effort which has attracted national attention to Hurricane and has given that city of 1400 population several outstanding State awards. Mrs. Noble, in cooperation with the City Beautification Club which she organized, has supervised the planting of 450 trees, the painting of fifty houses and commercial buildings, the tearing down of 88 barns, corrals, sheds, and chicken coops, the hauling away of several dozen old car bodies, the placing of litter cans on streets, and the paving of forty blocks of streets. All but two families in Hurricane cooperated on these projects.

Mrs. Jean Scott, mother of four, from Lincoln, England, administrative head of all social work done by the Women's Voluntary Service in Lincoln, while touring the United States and visiting many welfare programs, was a guest of the General Board of Relief Society in October. She met with the First Presidency of the Church, visited Welfare Square and many production and distribution centers under Church management.

Mrs. Dorothy Crowfoot Hodgkin, a teacher at Oxford University, England, won the 1964 Nobel Prize in chemistry. She is the first woman to receive this coveted award since Madame Marie Curie in 1911. Her contribution to science is an X-ray technique for photographing such mysteries as the molecular structure of chemicals.

Cathy Ferguson, a sixteen-year-old high school girl from Burbank, California, won one of the United States' thirty-six gold medals in the Olympic Games in Tokyo, Japan, in late October. Hers was for swimming in the 100-meter backstroke event, setting a world's record of one minute, seven and nine-tenths seconds. The only other American girl to win a gold medal was Lesley Bush, of Princeton, New Jersey, for her high dive. Three Russian women won gold medals and Vera Caslavaska of Czechoslovakia won three gold medals in the women's gymnastic events.

37
