[Vol52 | October | Magazine Page 787 | PDF Page 824]

--- PAGE 787 (PDF page 824) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

ingly active. He is painstakingly busy and diligent and is devoted to lawful and useful labor.

We should all be eternally grateful for the blessings of work and for the development that purposeful industry brings to each of us. Charles Kingsley has said, "Thank God every morning when you get up that you have something to do that day which must be done, whether you like it or not. Being forced to work, and forced to do your best, will breed in you temperance and self-control, diligence and strength of will, cheerfulness and content, and a hundred virtues which the idle never know" (as quoted in Marler, Ezra L.: Golden Nuggets of Thought, Volume II, page 148).

Without doubt the most effective medicine to heal discontent and drive away discouragement is purposeful and diligent work.

Most of us have within us the necessary power for useful, progressive and successful lives. If we apply the abilities which may lie dormant within us, our powers for accomplishment will develop and grow. We are now living during a period of remarkable opportunities, when the Lord has poured out his spirit upon the inhabitants of the earth. It is a glorious and choice opportunity for each of us to be a part of this great progress, and to be able, through industry and work, to make our small, but most important contribution.

For our own happiness and success, we should heed this commandment of the Lord as stated in the Doctrine and Covenants 88:124. We must not fritter away our time in useless, idle, and unimportant pursuits. If we are industrious we will aspire, plan, organize, concentrate, use our initiative, analyze, and accomplish. These are the ingredients of constructive work and the tools of satisfying success.

Let us, then, be up and doing,
With a heart for any fate;
Still achieving, still pursuing,
Learn to labor and to wait.
(Longfellow, "Psalm of Life")

WORK MEETING

The Work Meeting Discussion for January 1966 will appear in the November issue of the Magazine.

787