[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 19 | PDF Page 20]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 19 (PDF page 20) ---
PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME

fifteenth wedding anniversary, and my husband is being baptized tonight a member of the Church." And he was back there to help, as one of those appointed to take care of all the physical arrangements for the Singing Mothers as they arranged themselves for that great concert.

It is that kind of salvation which maybe some faithful wife will have to help her husband one day to achieve.

Remember what the apostle Paul said, "The unbelieving husband is sanctified by the believing wife."

Now, I am not talking of a husband who is unfaithful to the point of endangering his wife's health, immoral, and who probably has almost deprived himself of the right of life itself, but I am talking merely of one who presently seems to show no interest, or has his mind presently upon worldly things. If we will do our part as mothers, wives, with patience and prayer, and with the power of the Priesthood now concentrated, as we hope it will be, we may hope in the years that lie ahead to see a tremendous resurrection of interest, unity, faith, and the strengthening of the Latter-day Saint homes of this people.

Now, dear, sisters, you must give leadership to this. It will not go unless the mothers take the initiative in many homes. Put father in his place and urge him to take that place, and help him to be the teacher and leader that the Lord expects fathers to be, as holders of the Priesthood.

So I leave you my blessing this afternoon, again expressing my great delight at what I heard of the general session. How proud I was to hear your President, Sister Spafford, and these wonderful counselors. I think the word "great" is not an exaggeration — to say these are great women who are leading you, loyal, devoted, untiring, faithful. Sister Spafford has attained a world-wide stature. When she goes to foreign lands, she is well known to women's groups everywhere. She has addressed them on many occasions. She will leave this conference shortly to go to one similar conference back East. She has earned her place because she has maintained her standards and she has taught the gospel of Jesus Christ.

I am grateful to be here in the presence of Brother Romney. I think his talk to you yesterday was one of the finest expressions on one of the great needs of developing an awareness of the Spirit and how we must strive to get that Spirit and keep it. I think that is something that ought to be printed and reprinted and read and re-read, as Brother Romney has given it to you yesterday.

May I say, parenthetically, that the loyalty that brought him from a long meeting to sit through this hour, that may not have been, shall I say, too engaging, indicates the kind of loyalty and the strength that I have always felt in Elder Marion G. Romney, than whom I have never known a more loyal, a more faithful, and a more dear companion in the earnest work that belongs to the kingdom of God.

I commend what has been said and done and commend you to the further responsibilities that

19
