[Vol52 | May | Magazine Page 371 | PDF Page 388]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 1%]

--- PAGE 371 (PDF page 388) ---
THE TURN OF THE WHEEL

"Thank you very much," she replied. "I am surely glad to be back. If only for this week."

"Nein!" he cried. "Now that I have both you and Maria it is time for me to take a vacation. For fifteen years now I have been at this shop day and night, except on Sundays and holidays. Now it is my turn to play. Fran Klopfer and I will go to the Land of the Midnight Sun. Is that not a wonderful idea?"

"It is, indeed," agreed Elsa. "Quite as wonderful for me as for you."

She was grateful that she was sure now of work for at least a month. That would give her ample time to look around and find something more permanent.

When she left the shop that evening Karl was waiting outside in his red Volkswagon. Her face lighted up. "What a nice surprise!" she exclaimed. "Now I shan't have to punish my aching feet any longer but can ride home like a queen."

"But we are not going home," he answered. "I have a lunch packed. We are going up to Konigstuhl. There is something I wish you to see."

"Good! It will be wonderful to see my valley again from the top of Konigstuhl—especially on this lovely summer evening."

They parked the car and took the funicular railroad up to the top. Then they walked along a path to a spot that afforded a wonderful view of the valley and the Neckar River below. When they came to a grassy knoll, Karl spread out the blanket he had carried and put down the lunch basket.

"I hope this will be enough,"

he said. "I remember that your mother packed twice as much for our last picnic up here."

"And we probably carried half of it back down again," smiled Elsa. "Yes, I am sure that this will do."

THEY ate heartily and there was none left this time to carry back. "Now, I have something else to show you," said Karl, rising and helping Elsa to her feet.

They walked along the path around a bend and there, close by the side of the path, was a small pile of rocks. "See," he pointed. "Our monument."

"But! how has it lasted all these months?" she gasped in surprise. "Surely small boys have been along to toss them down hill?"

"A few," he admitted. "Once in awhile I have had to rebuild. But in the main, it is still here. It marks the spot where I first fell in love with you." He took hold of her hand. "Shall I leave it here—or join the small boys and scatter the rocks on the hillside?"

"Oh, yes, Karl! Leave it by all means!"

He put an arm around her and drew her close. "There will be a group going to the temple at Berne within a few weeks. I have been there once. It is very lovely against the setting of pines. Shall we go? You will not find it so large and magnificent perhaps as the one in Salt Lake City."

"No," she smiled happily. "But this one is ours. This is where I want to go." She looked up into his eyes again and added, "And I want to go with you."

371
