[Vol52 | December | Magazine Page 907 | PDF Page 952]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 907 (PDF page 952) ---
Church Conference

all the saints to make a determined and constructive effort to uphold the institutions of freedom.

We should understand that each of us has a duty to honor, support, and sustain our civil leaders and the law. The fact that everyone is entitled to his or her own opinion insofar as various matters of law and government are concerned does not relieve any one of us of the personal responsibility to obey, honor, and sustain the elected governmental officers and the law which it is their duty to administer.

Surely as we face the future there is reason for concern, but there is no reason for despair. Let us find a reason to lift, to build and to uphold.

President N. Eldon Tanner emphasized the two-fold nature of laws established for the government of men upon the earth—protection and punishment.

To us the law is the bedrock of our basic ideals: democracy, freedom, justice. However, from day to day most of us take our law for granted. We forget about it until we need it or break it, but law looks over our shoulders constantly, seldom intruding on us, so much a part of our lives that it has become more of a guide than a restriction, more protection than threat of punishment.

Let us remember, too, and never forget, that if we keep the laws of God, the greatest of all law-givers, we will automatically keep the laws of the land, and that the laws of God, if kept, will ensure peace, security, and happiness here on this earth, and lead us to immortality and eternal life.

A farewell blessing was given by President McKay in words of tender concern and counsel.

My brethren and sisters, as we come to this parting hour, I should like to say to you that the teachings and life of the Master never before seemed to me more beautiful, more necessary, and more applicable to human happiness than they are today. Never have I believed more firmly in the perfection of humanity as the final result of man's placement here on earth. With my whole soul I accept Jesus Christ as the personification of human perfection—as God made manifest in the flesh, as the Savior and Redeemer of mankind.

Anna B. Hart
Edith S. Elliott
Florence J. Madsen
Leone G. Layton
Blanche B. Stoddard
Evon W. Peterson
Aleine M. Young
Josie B. Bay
Alberta H. Christensen
Mildred B. Ewing
Edith P. Backman
Winniefred S. Manwaring

Elna P. Haymond
Mary R. Young
Mary V. Cameron
Afton W. Hunt
Weatha S. Mendenhall
Elsa T. Peterson
Fanny S. Kienitz
Elizabeth B. Winters
LaRue H. Rosell
Jennie R. Scott
Alice L. Wilkinson
Irene W. Buehner

Hazel S. Love
Fawn H. Sharp
Celestia J. Taylor
Irene C. Lloyd
Anna R. Gledhill
Belva B. Ashton
Zola J. McGhie
Oa J. Cannon
Lila B. Walch
Lenore G. Gundersen
Marjorie C. Pingree
Darlene C. Dedskind

Cleone R. Eccles
Edythe K. Watson
Ellen N. Barnes
Kathryn S. Gilbert
Verda F. Burton
Myrtle R. Olson
Alice C. Smith
Lucille P. Peterson
Elaine B. Curtis
