[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 43 | PDF Page 44]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 43 (PDF page 44) ---
WAIT UP FOR ME, JENNY

Jenny screamed with delight and ran outside, not minding the snow that had piled in drifts all around her. Doug was just getting out, and in a moment, Jenny was in his arms.

"I know'd you'd come," she said. "Oh, I just knew it." Her voice trailed off, as she saw people getting out of the cab. A man and a woman emerged from the shadows.

"Julie Anne," said Jenny. "You got here for Christmas! Mr. Smith, oh, Mr. Smith, they're here!"

MR. SMITH had come to the door. Now he had the full impact of the excitement. Julie Anne and her husband were coming toward him.

"I'll get that rear door open," said Douglas. "I'll bet these kids are sound asleep on the mattresses."

One by one the four children tumbled out from the back end of the van.

"Well, this is great," said Mr. Smith, as his grandchildren came toward him. "You mean you're all here?"

"Indeed we are," said Julie Anne, as she hugged her father, and the children gathered around, sleepy-eyed.

"And here's your Christmas tree," said Douglas, setting a fully trimmed tree before them in a snowdrift.

"We brought everything," laughed Julie Anne. "Turkey, food, gifts, and things for Santa Claus for the little ones. Doug said there was still lots of room in the van, so why not the Christmas tree?"

"And lucky you did," said Mr. Smith, with a wink at Jenny.

The little procession began, led by Mr. Smith to his own house. Everyone carried something—baskets, suitcases, and carton boxes loaded with things for a happy holiday. Julie Anne's husband carried the tree. Soon they were all on the threshold of the big, old house.

"Merry Christmas," they all called."

"Merry Christmas!" returned Doug and Jenny. "We'll see you tomorrow."

"How did you ever strike it so lucky?" asked Jenny, as she and Doug went into the house. "I had no idea that you really would bring them."

"After you suggested over the phone that I stop and see them, I did, and I gave them ten minutes to get loaded in the van. Julie Anne really wanted to come, and you should have seen them scramble. We got into the canyon just before it was closed for travel."

"It was certainly thoughtful of you to bring the tree," laughed Jenny. "Well, it's like Sharen said, just after you left, and there was so much uncertainty about getting everything done for Christmas, 'Christmas has a way, Mom, of coming right to your door when the big day comes,' and it has." Jenny smiled up at Doug. "And here comes Sharen."

Jenny could hear the cars in the driveway.

Douglas stretched his long arms, then closed them around Jenny. "I'm glad you waited up for me," he said affectionately. "Merry Christmas."

43
