[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 52 | PDF Page 53]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 52 (PDF page 53) ---
JANUARY 1965

Swedish Mission Relief Society Receives a Visit From a General Board Member
for the First Time, April 25-27, 1964

Seated, front row, left to right: Agness Carlström, translator; Britta Rydström, Secretary, Swedish Mission Primary Association; La Vern W. Parrish, President, Primary Association; Aleine M. Young, member, General Board of Relief Society; Marianne Tenström, President, Swedish Mission Relief Society; Jean W. Fletcher, Supervisor, Swedish Mission Relief Society.

The other sisters in the picture are members of the Relief Society and Primary presidencies of the five districts of the Swedish Mission.

Sister Tenström reports that a dinner party was held in Stockholm on April 25, 1964, for all the mission district leaders, at which time Sister Young and Sister Parrish were honored, and gifts were presented to them. For the occasion, Eva Gerling, Eva Myrberg, and Bergit Pearson were dressed in Swedish national costumes.

On March 17, 1964, the Stockholm First Branch presented a skit called "Sixty Years Ago," and representing the time when the chapel in Stockholm was dedicated by President Heber J. Grant. Irma Hodell, President, Stockholm First Branch Relief Society, wrote the skit, which presented the sisters hard at work preparing for the great day of the chapel dedication. Greta Anderson, Ethel Ramsden, and Inez Perciwall, also participated as characters in the skit. As a child, Sister Perciwall, accompanied her mother to the chapel dedication sixty years ago.

Ammon Stake (Idaho), Idaho Falls Twenty-Sixth Ward Nursery

Pictured assisting the children are Kay Zorn and Jean Smith.
Emma Jane Nelson, President, Ammon Stake Relief Society, reports: "The sisters of the Twenty-sixth Ward have placed special emphasis on making their Relief Society nursery an ideal place for the children of their ward. Their nursery is, indeed, one of the most outstanding in our stake. Note the clever aprons worn by each child. Sister Smith is now the president of this ward, although this article and picture were submitted by Harriett Kerr, the former president. Sister Kerr, in explaining some of the elements of the successful nursery in her ward, stated: 'We begin by selecting gentle baby sitters who will assure our younger groups that mother will be right back, and who will quietly usher our older groups into the Junior Sunday School room, where they will happily encounter flannel board stories and well-known songs. After this comes activity time. The picture shows one such period in which our children were busy and intent upon pasting popcorn on a bare, pre-arranged apricot tree. As the children come to meet their mothers at the conclusion of Relief Society, they are smiling, and we feel that everyone leaves with a spirit of fulfillment. One little girl comes alone because she hasn't yet convinced Mother it is a wonderful place to be."

San Joaquin Stake (California) Singing Mothers Present Two Concerts
Modesto, May 2, 1964, and Stockton, June 5, 1964

Leona B. Hansen, former president, Modesto Stake Relief Society, reports: "Sixty-five sisters spent many hours the past six months preparing for our Singing Mothers concerts. We placed special emphasis on inviting our nonmember friends, and the two evenings brought over 400 people to enjoy the evenings of music. Sister Francelle Larsen conducted, with Janet Odum at the piano, and Karlyn Brett at the organ. As one sister expressed her feelings, 'I have never felt closer to my Father in heaven.' Indeed, it was a spiritual feast."

The new President of San Joaquin Stake Relief Society is Leona Brown Hansen.

52
