[Vol52 | February | Magazine Page 114 | PDF Page 118]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 100% | Novel words: 0%]

--- PAGE 114 (PDF page 118) ---
MADAME LETITIA

her glittering new bag — then glittering pumps, then turned and
stopped short. Something was walked toward her own car. A
missing. period on a most frustrating eve-
Shoes — pumps. She tried to ning.
push her feet into one, then sat * * * *
down to put them on. They were The sting of that goodnight
a dream of brocaded satin, flashy had put the sour taste in Tish's
clips, and spike heels. But — but mouth. The next morning she
they were not the size she had felt even more embarrassed.
tried on. A mistake, printed "She was right," Tish acknowl-
size indicated. edged. "I am an old woman. If
"It is all in my mind," she tried I am as old as I feel, I am at least
to reassure herself. "If other a hundred. But I love to go
women can balance on tooth- places and do things. I love life.
picks, I can, too." I don't want to be old-fashioned
Before the evening was over but. . . ." Memories of last eve-
Tish hoped her vow would not be ning cut short the sentence. With
taken seriously. Fortunately, her a groan she swung her feet to the
feet became so numb that by floor.
leaning on chair backs, holding Without interest, Tish pre-
on to arms, and sitting when she pared and ate her breakfast.
could edge onto a chair ahead of Usually she went for a walk be-
someone else, she managed to fore eating, but what old woman
present a reasonable facsimile of could go abroad on such a dark,
her usual gay, vocal self. She was rainy day. Just settle down in
tempted to slip out of her slippers your rocking chair and be your
but wisely resisted. She thought age! But she had no rocking
of all the martyrs who had inflict- chair.
ed punishment on themselves.

MADAME Knolski was just as THE rain drizzled off, and sud-
Tish had anticipated. She was denly Tish knew she must go for
petite and stood and walked a walk. A walk had always been
about on spikes without a sign of the starting of her day's activi-
discomfort. Her girlish skirt ties, and she might walk the sore-
swished pleasingly, but her hair ness out of her feet.
was white; not bleached or rinsed, Once on the graveled road
just white that comes with age. where she walked each morning,
Unwillingly, Tish began to like her spirits lifted. Fall had always
her. been her favorite time of the
When the time came to leave, year. Yesterday the trees on
Tish could scarcely wait to get either side had swayed with the
out to their car; but barring her breeze, touching the leaves with
way at the door stood Althea, a soft rustling sound. Last night's
Tish's best friend. rain had stripped them of their
"Salaam! Madame Letitia." gay leaves. What had been a riot
Althea bowed dramatically. She of color was now drab gray and
glanced scornfully from her brown.
friend's still perfect hairdo to the Nearing the place of return,
Tish paused a moment to breathe
deeply. She did so enjoy walks

113
