[Vol52 | February | Magazine Page 102 | PDF Page 106]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 89% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 102 (PDF page 106) ---
Woman's Sphere

Ramona W. Cannon

Flora Beth Benson, wife of Elder Ezra Taft Benson, member of The Council of the Twelve, and President of the European Mission, is the subject of the feature article in a recent issue of Overseas Living. The article is illustrated with several pictures of Sister Benson, Elder Benson, and their daughter Beth who lives with them in Frankfurt, Germany. Sister Benson's Church activities are discussed in detail, and she is quoted as saying: "The Relief Society is organized to help women be better homemakers and broaden their education. A few years of it is almost like a college degree."

Roene DiFiore, a Utah musician, well known in the United States, received a unique honor in November 1964. In appreciation of her many years of singing as a soloist in Church and civic events, and for her outstanding conducting of choruses, operettas, and operas, "Roene Day" was celebrated in Richfield, Utah. Among the many citations mentioned at the celebration was the distinction which Mrs. DiFiore achieved in 1951 in Miami, Florida, when her singing in the American Legion Quartet won an outstanding award in the National finals.

Mrs. LaVerne (Don) Carter of Saint Louis is the 1964 champion woman bowler of the United States.

Barbara Hall Ellis, author, food technologist, and inventor, is an example of the many facets of accomplishment open to trained home economists. She is the highest ranking woman employee of the Continental Can Company and its twenty-two million dollar Research and Development Center in Chicago, Illinois. She plans, coordinates, and directs projects at the research center, supervises its test kitchen and taste panel, and trains and directs its home economics staff.

Dr. Helen Hogg, grandmother, star gazer, and first woman to be president of the Royal Canadian Institute, was also the first woman elected to the physical science section of the Royal Society of Canada, and in 1960 she became the first woman president of that section. At the break of dawn each photographs stars and later catalogues their brightness, size, speed, and color, thus adding to the knowledge of how to compute stellar distance.

Faith Baldwin, eminent novelist and short story writer, is one of many literary women who claim that creative writing is an ideal hobby and occupational accomplishment for women, since it permits them to remain in their homes and attend to the supervisory duties so necessary to a homemaker, wife, and mother.

101
