[Vol52 | September | Magazine Page 670 | PDF Page 703]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 670 (PDF page 703) ---
Promise of Spring

Preparing for a Springtime Garden

Irvin T. Nelson

Director of Landscaping, Temple Square, Church Historic Sites, Foreign Temples, Mormon Pavilion, World's Fair

Member, White House Conference on National Beauty

Transparencies by the Author

■ A spring garden, like anything worthwhile, needs some forethought, intelligence, and a bit of work. For the experienced gardener and for the best results, the planning for next year's garden commences when this year's garden is in bloom. At that time a person can see the successes and failures and plan accordingly. Then, too, it is necessary to start early to get the plants ready. Even with bulbs, it is advisable to order in May or June, if one is to be sure of getting what he wants at good prices. Also, with other plants for a spring garden, it is necessary to get them underway before summer is too far advanced. For example, if you are going to use pansies or violas, which are generally next to bulbs, as the main feature of a spring garden, then the seed must be ordered and planted before mid-July. If you are going to use primroses in next year's garden, then you should start to divide the plants after they are through blooming. So it is usually good to plan about a year ahead.

However, if you are one who has not started until now, do not despair. If you take a few definite steps at once you can get along very well.

SELECTION OF PLANTS

You must first decide what you want in your spring garden. Usually bulbs of some sort are an immediate choice—hyacinths, tulips, daffodils, narcissi, and a score of others. If you are uncertain of what you really want, get some good bulb catalogues or books, or talk with some experienced gardeners for ideas. Visit nurseries or stores featuring bulbs as soon as they are on display. Here you can get ideas and, which is often important, find out how much various things are going to cost. Remember, for the small garden, great numbers of bulbs are not necessary. By proper selection of varieties and colors, and by wise grouping, you can get splendid results. I

670
