[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 13 | PDF Page 14]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 13 (PDF page 14) ---
PLACE OF MOTHERS IN THE PLAN OF TEACHING THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME

conference or at a general conference, but the all-important thing is what people think we said. That is the important thing. Well, now, some people have thought we said certain things that we did not say, or at least, we have repented of, if we seemed to have said it; and it is now about some of these things I wish to speak.

Now about the Primary Home Partnership. Some things were said that seemed to negate all of that good work of the Primary trying to carry the Primary lessons into the home; and likewise the Sunday School had a similar kind of program. We were asked to make some comments about that.

The Ward Council Meeting

One of the weekly meetings of the executive committee of each Priesthood group in the ward is to be held each month, and is resolved into what we call a ward council meeting, where all the heads of the auxiliaries and all the heads of the Priesthood groups will meet together. The bishop will bring to this group the assignments which need to be made to the auxiliaries. The place of the auxiliary is there determined, primarily by the outcome of the studies or the visits of the Home Teachers, as revealed by oral or written reports, which are sifted by the secretary of the Home Teaching committee, or assistant ward clerk, and the bishopric.

Relationship Between Priesthood Home Teachers and Auxiliary Workers on Enlistment

There have been some questions asked relative to the

relationship between Priesthood Home Teachers and the auxiliary workers, relating to enlistment work necessary for an individual child or adult member. During last month we held a seminar of all Priesthood representatives of the four Priesthood committees — Home Teaching, Missionary, Genealogy, and Welfare. In that meeting, this very question came up, and in the discussion, they seemed to draw an interesting distinction between the enlistment work necessary for a longtime inactive family or one which had never been active, and the infrequent absence of a child who had skipped going to Sunday School or who had skipped going to Primary for a week or more. The enlistment work can be considered as one thing, the visit of a child who is ill or occasionally absent, is another.

In one stake I visited I conferred with the Relief Society and Primary board workers, after their all-day sessions with stake leaders, and I found that only fifty per cent of the mothers in that stake were enrolled in Relief Society; and there were 225 children of Primary age who were not participating in Primary. Whose business is this? Is this just the business of the Relief Society and the teachers of the various classes? Is it just the business of the Primary and the teachers of the Primary classes? It is the business of the total Priesthood of the Church to see, so far as it is possible, that every mother is induced to come to Relief Society, and that every child of Primary age is induced to participate in the Primary program. Now, by analogy, that means

13
