[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 78 | PDF Page 79]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 84% | Novel words: 6%]

--- PAGE 78 (PDF page 79) ---
JANUARY 1965

bers, including their spiritual, temporal, and intellectual welfare.

IN SUMMARY

The Welfare Program, though very briefly reviewed above, is an excellent example of the functioning of religious idealism. Much is said about being our brother's keeper, unselfishness, and the Golden Rule, but in the Welfare Program, we have a practical application of true brotherhood. This is expressed in the unified approach to resolving the problems of poverty, both spiritual and material, among Church members.

As long as the members have a desire to be self-supporting and are willing to do their best, then the Welfare Program provides the way for the quorum members to help their brothers without embarrassing them. Every project developed by wards or stakes presents a potential occupational opportunity for a member who is without employment. The unemployed person can join with others in a united effort to make the project successful. The needy person can spend as much time as he needs on a welfare project in order to care for his family. His quorum brethren work with him to establish him on a self-supporting basis. At the same time, the quorum members are constantly searching for permanent employment for their brother in an industry that will provide him with a greater opportunity to improve his economic situation.

By the united effort of all Church members in support of the welfare projects, work opportunities are made available, and the needs of a person can be met

in the time-honored method of personal effort.

Perhaps it should be emphasized here, at the conclusion of this lesson, that all Melchizedek Priesthood members will be encouraged to participate in activities pertaining to all phases of the Priesthood correlation program, including home teaching, genealogy, missionary, and welfare work. The quorums or groups will engage in all these activities as directed by their respective Priesthood committees of the high council and in concurrence and cooperation with the ward bishopric and the ward council. The members of each quorum will be responsible and report directly to their group leaders in all phases of Priesthood work.

However, the leadership of these Priesthood programs will be given to various groups. Thus, the leadership of the home teaching program rests with the bishopric working through and with the various Priesthood quorum and group leaders. The leadership for the genealogy program will be given to the high priests group, and the group leader will serve as the ward council adviser on genealogy. Similarly, leadership for missionary activities will be given to the seventies quorum or group in the ward, and the seventies leader in the ward will serve as the ward council adviser on missionary work. Under the direction of the bishopric, the elders quorum will be given the leadership for the Welfare Program, and the elders president or group leader will serve as the ward council adviser on welfare. However, the bishop will serve as chairman of the ward welfare

78
