[Vol52 | February | Magazine Page 100 | PDF Page 104]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 100 (PDF page 104) ---
AMONG STRANGERS

THE woman from the other coach spoke up. "I think he does."

"There's a town about forty miles from here," said the conductor. "I'll stop and have a doctor waiting." He reached out to touch Danny's forehead, then left without further comment.

Janet was fearful that the doctor would be grumpy at being roused from his bed, but she was mistaken. The train had scarcely stopped in the small prairie town when a cheerful young man carrying a black bag came striding down the aisle followed by the conductor. He smiled briefly at Janet as he knelt by the seat.

"Okay, partner," he said briskly. "Let's pop this into your mouth for a minute."

Danny made no objection to the thermometer or to the rest of the doctor's examination, which was performed in the light of the conductor's lantern. The other passengers watched silently. It was very quiet when the doctor finally spoke.

"I've never seen a healthier specimen," he said, smiling again at Janet. "His temperature is high and he may have a virus, but I'd say it's mostly from excitement and over-fatigue. I'll give him something to help him sleep, and leave some aspirin with you. If his temperature isn't normal by the time you get to Chicago tomorrow, you'd better see a doctor there."

The doctor gave something to unresisting Danny, and Janet relaxed for the first time since the boy became ill. She smiled gratefully at the cheerful young physician as he gave her instructions about the aspirin.

"I'm sorry we got you out of bed," she said.

The doctor stood up and patted her shoulder. "It's not the first time," he said. "Nor the last, I'm sure. Glad I could be of service." He accepted the bill Janet thrust into his hand, tousled Danny's hair, and left.

The conductor lingered for a moment. "Send someone after me if he gets any worse," he said. "There's another town in about 100 miles or so."

"Thank you," Janet called after him as he walked swiftly out of the coach. She felt that the simple words were inadequate.

AS the train started, Susan woke up. Before she had a chance to cry out, the lady in the red muu-muu swooped down and picked her up. Whispering softly to her, the woman changed her, then cuddled her while she rocked back and forth on the seat crooning, "Go to sleep, Suzie, time for a snoozy."

The rest of the people dispersed quietly, assuring Janet they would hurry back if needed. Janet, groggy with fatigue, thanked them all.

Cheryl, Janet noticed, still slumbered peacefully. Danny was relaxing limply in her arms. Carefully she laid him down in the seat and leaned back.

She hadn't meant to sleep, but when she opened her eyes again sunlight was streaming through the windows of the train. She looked up to see the woman in the red muu-muu peering at her over the back of the seat.

"Thought I heard you stir,"

97
