[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 10 | PDF Page 11]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 94% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 10 (PDF page 11) ---
JANUARY 1965

Begotten is the Son of Man, even Jesus Christ, a righteous judge, who shall come in the meridian of time. Therefore I give unto you a commandment, to teach these things freely unto your children . . . (Moses 6:56-58).

Now, that's one of the earliest instructions I could find, where parents and leaders were to teach children.

King Benjamin to his people said:

And ye will not suffer your children that they go hungry, or naked; neither will ye suffer that they transgress the laws of God, and fight and quarrel one with another, and serve the devil, who is the master of sin, or who is the evil spirit which has been spoken of by our fathers, he being an enemy to all righteousness. But ye will teach them to walk in the ways of truth and soberness; ye will teach them to love one another, and to serve one another (Mosiah 4:14, 15).

In the book of Deuteronomy, in the Old Testament, we find this being said by Moses, as the Lord instructed him:

And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might. And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart: And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up (Deut. 6:5-7).

Now, our leaders today have said something. From the discourses of President Woodruff, I have a quotation:

I consider that the mother has a greater influence over her posterity than any other person can have. And the question has arisen some time "When does this education begin?" Our prophets have said, "When the spirit life from God enters into the

tabernacle." The condition of the mother at that time will have its effect upon the fruit of her womb; and from the birth of the child, and all through life, the teachings and the example of the mother govern and control in a great measure, that child, and her influence is felt by it through time and eternity.

I have long been satisfied that the devil was making great exertions to drive a wedge in between parents and children — trying to inspire and instil into the minds of the sons and daughters of the Saints those corrupting notions that will prevent them from following the footsteps of their fathers and mothers; but this cannot be done! The sons and daughters of this people, if we do our duty, will be held by the strength and in the name of Israel's God (The Discourses of Wilford Woodruff, pp. 269-270).

President Grant has made two very important comments:

There seems to be a power which the mother possesses in shaping the life of the child that is far superior. . . . A mother's love seems to be the most perfect and most sincere, the strongest of any love we know anything about. I, for one, rejoice in it because of its wonderful example to me.

If we as parents will so order our lives that our children will know and realize in their hearts that we are very deed latter-day Saints, that we actually know what we are talking about, they, by seeking after the Lord, will get that same testimony (Gospel Standards, pp. 152, 154).

What a tremendous comfort and promise that must be!

President McKay has these comments to make:

God has placed upon parents the responsibility of instilling these principles into the minds of children. Church schools, Sunday Schools, Mutual Improvement Associations, Primary organizations are all helps in government, established here to assist

10
