[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 41 | PDF Page 42]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 90% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 41 (PDF page 42) ---
WAIT UP FOR ME, JENNY

the radio. Daniel's Canyon was closed. Road blocks were general throughout the State.

Jenny burst into tears. Then Doug wouldn't get through. "If I'd counted on it so. A good Christmas for everyone. How can we ever have Christmas without your father?" Jenny looked at Sharen helplessly. "And Mr. Smith! He was so sure that Julie Anne would come."

"Mother, Dad will get through," said Sharen protectively, putting an arm around her mother. "You'll see."

Jenny wrapped herself in her coat and scarf. "I'll go and see how Mr. Smith is taking this," she said. "He'll be so disappointed." She went to her home, leaving Sharen to stay with Amy. No sooner had she entered her house when the doorbell rang loudly. Jenny opened the door, and there stood Mr. Smith, the wind whipping about him. He looked unhappy and dejected. Jenny hurried him into the house.

"I suppose you've heard! The canyon's closed," he said.

"Yes," said Jenny. "The radio announced that it might be closed for several days, depending on when the storm subsides."

"I've tried to call my daughter, but the wires are down up in that area where they live, and I have no way of knowing whether they started out or not."

"But, Mr. Smith!" Jenny grew excited. "There's still a possibility that your family might come. You shouldn't give your food and things away."

Jenny was sorry for her fine old neighbor. The snow beat against the windows in fierce persistence, as she tried to watch his bent figure going to his home. He had said he would return with a sleigh and together they would go to Amy's, taking the things that Julie Anne had given him much joy in preparation for the anticipated visit of his daughter and her family.

It was not long before Mr. Smith returned with a large hand sleigh stacked high with the good things that he had gathered together for Amy's Christmas. A large basket held the turkey and all the trimmings. There were pies, cookies, and various breads, packaged vegetables, and candy and nuts and popcorn balls.

IN a few minutes, the beauty of Christmas moved into Amy's small household. The wreath went on the door, the turkey was put in the oven to roast, the gifts were done up by Sharen in gay wrappings. Amy could only look on in honest gratitude, and the children stood around in wonderment as they saw the larder filled with many good things.

"Now for the tree," said Mr. Smith. "I'll bring it up, but I'll leave the trimming to you, Sharen."

"But, Mr. Smith!" exclaimed Jenny, "you'll have to keep your tree! Why, your children would expect that more than any part of Christmas."

Mr. Smith was determined in his purpose. "They won't be here," he said with finality. "Anyway, these children need the tree."

The tree was brought, and Sharen trimmed it with the ornaments in Amy's basement.

"Merry Christmas!" said Amy, with moist eyes. "Imagine what

41
