[Vol52 | September | Magazine Page 668 | PDF Page 701]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 668 (PDF page 701) ---
IN MEMORIAM
Leah Dunford Widtsoe

February 24, 1874 — June 7, 1965

Leah Eudora Dunford Widtsoe, wife of the late John A. Widtsoe, a member of the Council of the Twelve, passed away in Salt Lake City, Utah, June 7, 1965. She was the daughter of Dr. Alma B. Dunford and Susa Young Gates, a gifted pioneer writer, a former editor of The Relief Society Magazine, and a daughter of President Brigham Young. Sister Widtsoe attended the University of Utah, Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, New York, and was graduated from Brigham Young University in 1899. She was a gracious and cultured woman, carrying out the many responsibilities which came to her during the time that her husband studied in Europe, served as President of Utah State University, and the University of Utah, as well as traveling with Dr. Widtsoe to his many assignments as a General Authority of the Church. She was the author of several books and many articles in the field of domestic science and arts, and was co-author of The Life Story of Brigham Young. Among her many honors were an honorary Doctor of Humanities Degree from Brigham Young University, and her selection as a member of the Utah Hall of Fame. She will long be remembered as a distinguished daughter of pioneer families, and as a loving and devoted wife and mother.

The General Board of Relief Society extends sympathy to the two daughters of Sister Widtsoe, Mrs. Ann W. Wallace and Mrs. Eudora W. Durham, to their families, and to the wide circle of friends who have known and loved Leah D. Widtsoe.

From a Schoolroom Window
Bernice Ames

The teacher asked Jane to spell "foretold,"
But meadows below her are brimming with gold,
And the voice in the room is drifting again
As cicadas shrill like a scratchy pen.

Tom should explain the Civil War,
But a groundhog hole, unnoticed before
In the field outside, makes his fingers itch,
And two crows hang over a muddy ditch.

The window stays the spirit's return
From summer fields to facts children learn.

668
