[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 8 | PDF Page 9]
[QC: WARN | OCR coverage: 88% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 8 (PDF page 9) ---
JANUARY 1965

First, I sat down the other night and combed through many statements about the importance of the home, to get some sort of "punch lines," if you might call it that, to give to you from the viewpoint of thinkers, leaders in various fields — how they have construed the importance of maintaining the integrity of the home. Then I am going to move to some scriptures from the various dispensations of the past, to show you how the prophets have schooled the people as to the responsibility of the parents with regard to their children. Then I am going to come down a little closer and bring to you some quotations about Family Home Night, as it has been taught to us, beginning with President Joseph F. Smith, and even statements preceding that time, about our responsibility as parents in the home. And then, finally, to get down to the specifics of the thing that we shortly will have to give to you by way of instructions, by which we hope the parents will be better prepared to do the work which the Lord has commanded them to do.

I was at a conference in Idaho, and I shall not talk too specifically about it, because I nearly blundered by speaking too bluntly about the carelessness of this stake in naming a husband and wife to an organization which took them both out of the home, without leaving one or the other there to tend the children; that they ought to be careful and assign a mother to one organization so the father could be home, and then when the father had to be gone, so the mother could be home. Well, I found that I had

given some offense because of my statement, when stake leaders freely predicted a wholesale resignation as a result of my rather blunt remarks.

In the afternoon, I looked to have someone to support my contention. I was sitting by the stake Relief Society president, and I think she probably is here today. She had raised nine children, all of them married now, and all of them in the temple; a very successful mother; and all her life, all the time she was raising her family, she had been a leader in one of the women's organizations. So I asked her to tell us how she had been able to be a leader and yet had been able to raise such a remarkable family.

This lovely sister could not have given a more perfect talk from my standpoint than if I had schooled her on what to say. She said: "In the first place, what success I have had in raising my family, I owe to my angel mother. I raised my children as my wonderful mother raised us, and that chain reaction, which she started, has gone through my family, and I hope I have transferred it on to my children."

The importance of a mother was pinpointed by someone who said, "When you teach a boy, you are just teaching another individual, but when you teach a woman or a girl, you are teaching a whole family."

The second thing, she said: "I married a wonderful companion. Daddy always felt that I should be active just as well as he should be active, and so whenever we were asked to hold a position, we sat down with the bishop or the

8
