[Vol52 | November | Magazine Page 831 | PDF Page 872]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 831 (PDF page 872) ---
"STAR LIGHT, STAR BRIGHT"

sometimes before I go back."
"You mean, you're staying? You didn't come to take Barbara home for Christmas?"
"Oh, no," Barbara assured her, "I invited him up here. After all, I have my own apartment. I have a little tree. But I may need some help with my turkey, Christmas day."

SUDDENLY, an idea hit her, "You're celebrating Christmas day? I'm fixing dinner tomorrow night. Christmas Eve is the Danish custom. Why don't you both come down here and eat? Only Grandma Lunt is coming. We can't possibly handle an entire goose."
"She's a darling," Barbara said, and her father questioned, "Goose? Why, I haven't had one since we used to shoot our own. But . . . it's an intrusion . . . Christmas Eve and all."
"If I had a family it would be different," Annie told him frankly, "but I'm quite alone. It would really be a favor. And," she added, "then we could sing to our heart's content."
"Sold," he agreed, "if Barbara's willing."
"Oh, I am. That is, if you'll help me with the turkey and eat with us Christmas day."
So the two of them left, and she returned to polishing the piano which reflected the lights on the small tree which she had just turned on. She did not pull her drapes, for it was not too dark, and she loved seeing the snow falling and the tree in other windows down the street. She hoped someone derived a bit of pleasure from hers. She was reassured in that hope

a moment later when she saw a man and a small boy pause on the walk and stare directly at it. They could not see her, and she was glad, or it might have spoiled it for them. The child was pointing toward the window, and even as he pointed, they turned their footsteps up her walk. It was almost with a pain that she realized that it was little Paul from upstairs, and his father. This had probably been his day with the boy. How sad divorce was when there was a child, and when it was Christmas. Partings by death were inevitable, but when they could be avoided. . . .
As Annie heard them open the outside door, she got up almost without thinking and hurried across the room. She opened the door and met them in the hall. "Hello," she called. (She had met him before when he had come for the child and he seemed to be a nice chap.) He answered, "Hello. Paul was just admiring your tree."
"How nice. Why don't you bring him in and let him look at it? Please do." The young man hesitated, but finally stepped inside, shaking the flakes of snow from his shoulders, then brushing his son's coat as well.
The child was drawn to the tree with its red and green lights, its small woven baskets, filled with candies, which her mother had taught her to make; the popcorn she had strung here in the evenings; the ornaments, and the gleaming star on top.
"It's so pretty," he whispered, "so pretty. We only have a tiny one." She nodded. She knew, for she had seen the tinsel store tree set on the television set,

831
