[Vol52 | July | Magazine Page 553 | PDF Page 578]

--- PAGE 553 (PDF page 578) ---
LESSON DEPARTMENT

than space allows here. But the subject that concerns us most in our study of the story is its dramatization of good versus evil in our human environment. Through the story Wolfe (American novelist and short-story writer, 1900-1938) suggests that in every human being there are capacities for good and for evil. In fact, human nature is characterized by contrast, by paradox. In every earthly personality, and in mortal life as a whole, there are beautiful tendencies and ugly tendencies, tender qualities and harsh qualities, holy aspirations and animal desires. The difference between the good person and the bad person is not that one has only noble desires and the other only evil desires, but that the one, through will-power, cultivates his noble desires and subdues his evil desires, and the other through lack of will-power, wastes his noble potentialities and submits to his animal desires. Surrounding us at all times are opportunities to do good and opportunities to do evil. Triumph in life is a process of selecting the good opportunities and recognizing the evil ones—and this is a matter of inner decision. One has reached a high level of maturity if he can win the battle to control the evil tendencies within himself.

Few writers have described more eloquently the good-evil dualism of man's nature than has Thomas Wolfe in this work. Note, for example, several sentences from just beyond the middle of the story (text, page 293), where he speaks of the tragic and insoluble problems caused by the admixture of opposite forces striving for ascendency.

Wolfe continues with a vividly expressed description of the continual conflict between man's highest yearnings and the encroachment of his base desires. The "soaring spirit" is compared to "grand music," and the conflict of evil is "sorrowfully and unalterably woven . . . with blind brute hunger."

Much of the excellence of the story comes from the fact that this sense of contrast is felt in every aspect of the work—the beautiful love of the husband and wife contrasted with the wife's ugly clandestine affair with the young man, youth contrasted with age, health contrasted with sickness, the spirituality of the man contrasted with the fleshliness of the woman, ornate language contrasted with homely language, etc. Many other works have been written on the complex relationship between evil and good in the universe—and in the human heart—but few have explored the subject as memorably as Wolfe does in this story.

Shakespeare's Sonnet #94. One of the strongest brief statements reminding us of our responsibility as leaders to live righteously and avoid evil is Shakespeare's Sonnet #94.

SONNET #94
William Shakespeare

They that have power to hurt and will do none,
That do not do the thing they most do show,
Who, moving others, are themselves as stone,
Unmoved, cold, and to temptation slow;
They rightly do inherit heaven's graces,
And husband nature's riches from expense;

553