[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 5 | PDF Page 6]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 91% | Novel words: 4%]

--- PAGE 5 (PDF page 6) ---
THE RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED BY REVELATION

form, responsibilities assigned to them which they can carry far more expeditiously than could their husbands who hold the divine authority of Priesthood. Nothing has been overlooked or forgotten in the restoration of the gospel. The Lord has provided ways and means by which every soul may find something to do for the advancement of the kingdom of God. There is no place in the Church for idleness. The hymn, "I Have Work Enough to Do," states this clearly. It was written by Josephine Pollard, and is as follows:

I have work enough to do, Ere the sun goes down,
For myself and kindred, too, Ere the sun goes down;
Every idle whisper stilling With a purpose firm and willing,
All my daily tasks fulfilling, Ere the sun goes down.
I must speak the loving word, Ere the sun goes down;
I must let my voice be heard, Ere the sun goes down;
Every cry of pity heeding, For the injured interceding,
To the light the lost ones leading, Ere the sun goes down.
As I journey on my way, Ere the sun goes down,
God's commands I must obey, Ere the sun goes down;
There are sins that need confessing;
There are wrongs that need redressing,
If I would obtain the blessing, Ere the sun goes down.

In the restoration of the gospel the Lord did not overlook anything. He says, truthfully, that the "fulness" of the gospel has been revealed. Provisions have been made so that every soul, who will, may find something to do. It appears from the writings of Paul to the members

of the Church in Corinth, that in that day there was no place either in civil government or in the Church for activity performed by the sisters of the Church. If they hearkened to the counsel of their husbands, their salvation would be secured.

Evidently this was not the thought anciently in Israel, and may have been a condition imposed upon the people in the days of Roman and Greek dominion. We read that in earlier days of Israel women were active and had duties to perform, that there were actually prophetesses among them. Such a noted character was Deborah, who is spoken of as being a prophetess unto whom the people went for counsel, and she became a judge in Israel. It appears in the account of the exodus of Israel from Egypt, that Miriam, sister of Moses and Aaron, who is spoken of as being a prophetess (Exodus 15:20), evidently had been given authority, particularly in relation to the affairs of the women of Israel.

Now, in this the greatest dispensation of all, because it is the last, the women of the Church are given some measure of divine authority, particularly in the direction of government and instruction in behalf of the women of the Church.

The Relief Society is well named, for it was organized for the guidance, instruction, and development of the female members. There is no question that the Prophet Joseph Smith was divinely inspired to organize the sisters and give them duties to perform for the benefit and strengthening of the women,

5
