[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 40 | PDF Page 41]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 40 (PDF page 41) ---
JANUARY 1965

sleepily. "It'll be more like Christmas. Just what we need."

"A lot you know about it," said Jenny grudgingly. "With your father out there, somewhere on the highway, trying to get home for Christmas, and Mr. Smith expecting Jullie Anne and family to make the day for him — of course I don't want it to snow."

Sharen was wide awake now, with concern for her mother.

"You know Big Bertha gets Dad through anything, Mom, and we can always take care of Mr. Smith on Christmas. We've done it before. But why give up already? Julie Anne's husband might just drive them through easily."

Jenny didn't know why fear had suddenly engulfed her, but she had no heart for Christmas now. She busied herself with routine housework, and soon Sharen came down the stairs in cool confidence. Jenny ate breakfast with her, as the weather outside grew more blustery.

"Let's both run over to Amy's and give her a hand with the housework. Ralph's been gone to work for several hours by now."

Jenny shuddered. "They say the mail's real heavy this year. Poor fellow, having to buck weather like this.

Sharen rose. "I love this weather," she said. "It makes one feel so safe inside."

"Young hearts," said Jenny. "I wish I didn't have to worry about neighbors and snowstorms and Christmas, but I can't help it. Come on, let's go over to Amy's."

THE two women wrapped up in warm clothing to face the blizzard outside. It was now in full force, and the snow was drifting in little piles here and there. Jenny and Sharen started out the door, when the phone rang.

"You go ahead and I'll answer the phone," Jenny said, and Sharen hurried up the road east to Amy's house.

"Doug!" Jenny was overjoyed when she lifted up the receiver, to find the call was from her husband. "I've been so worried. Can you get through?"

They talked on. The storm was rough. Some roads were closed. He had stopped for lunch and wanted her to know he was on the way.

"I'll make it," said Douglas confidently. "You can count on Bertha to get through anything. But if I don't — just think of me comfortably asleep on a load of soft mattresses.

"Wait up for me, Jenny. It's Christmas Eve."

His last words made Jenny feel gay and light. There was no need to worry. Doug would be home. She looked around her rooms. There was beauty here and comfort. There was a quiet Christmas spirit that she could now feel. She had been too worried and busy to really see the tree that Sharen had finally found time to trim. It was beautiful, an artistic job. The lights winked at Jenny with friendliness, and the big pine cones on the mantle, with greenery, were a perfect correlation to the rest of the room.

SHAREN was vacuuming the floors when Jenny entered. Amy was holding her baby, and the two small children were cutting picture books.

Then the news came over

40
