[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 58 | PDF Page 59]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 92% | Novel words: 9%]

--- PAGE 58 (PDF page 59) ---
Lesson Department

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a woman holding an open book with one hand raised]

THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants

Elder Roy W. Doxey

Lesson 63 — The One Mighty and Strong
(Text: Doctrine and Covenants, Section 85)

For First Meeting, April 1965

Objective: To recognize the importance of adhering to the revelations of the Lord and how claim to office may be tested.

INTRODUCTION

By commandment, William W. Phelps was promised certain blessings after his baptism. (Section 55.) At this early period (June 1831) he was given the assignment to travel with the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon to Independence, Missouri, where he was to engage in the printing business. (Verses 4-5.) At the time the Prophet wrote to him (November 27, 1832) about conditions in Missouri, he was editor and printer of the Evening and Morning Star, the first periodical published by the Church. Brother Phelps was also an assistant to Bishop Edward Partridge. In reply to a letter from him, the Prophet, already concerned about the welfare of the saints in Missouri, gave instructions regarding the allotting of inheritances to the saints. Matters of great weight rested upon the Prophet's mind and by inspiration he sensed the feelings of Brother Phelps in these words:

... My God, great and mighty art Thou, therefore show unto Thy servant what shall become of those who are essaying to come up unto Zion, in order to keep the commandments of God, and yet receive not their inheritance by consecrations, by order of deed from the Bishop, the man that God has appointed in a legal way, agreeably to the law given to organize and regulate the Church, and all the affairs of the same (DHC 1:298).

Then, revealing the source of his own feelings toward Brother Phelps, the Prophet wrote:

Brother William, in the love of God, having the most implicit confidence in you as a man of God, having obtained this confidence by a vision of heaven,

58
