[Vol52 | January | Magazine Page 1 | PDF Page 2]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 97% | Novel words: 5%]

--- PAGE 1 (PDF page 2) ---
New Year's Greetings

To each of you, each loved and loving sister, the General Board of Relief Society extends our warmest wishes for a joyous New Year. We acknowledge with gratitude your valued contributions to the success which has attended the work of Relief Society this past year and your support of its programs. Our prayer is that you have received benefit, your life has been blessed, your happiness increased, and your knowledge expanded.

As the old calendar comes down, the year 1964 becomes history. One last look at the calendar pages reveals much that is worth remembering, many days to be treasured and, perhaps, some that brought sorrow. Good memories remain to bring a glow to living. Rewarding growth, both spiritual and mental, becomes evident in an evaluation of a year's activities. Some of the past year may be what Emily Dickinson would call an "amethyst remembrance," jewel bright, with a touch of nostalgia and a whisper of melancholy among its beauties.

"The past is prologue" Shakespeare elucidates. That which has gone before, the prefatory act upon which what will come is based, may make the future better if wisdom is gained and judgment attained.

The new calendar goes up. Twelve new pages appear marked off into 365 days, each of which is full of promise, offering precious time to learn, to do, to achieve. They offer opportunities to give, to serve, to receive, to extend the mind, to enlarge the soul, to fulfill in fuller measure potentialities of character.

The new year lies ahead, a pathway to tomorrow. It is well to walk this path with faith. It is wise to observe the guideposts along the way. It is good to walk in the company of family and friends, all with the same worthy destination. It is joyous, indeed, to take the path that Jesus trod and follow in his footsteps.

May 1965 bring you greater happiness, finer accomplishment, and more dedicated devotion to the gospel. Our sincere love bears our greetings.

Affectionately,

Belle S. Spafford
Marianne C. Sharp
Louise Y. Madsen
