[Vol52 | October | Magazine Page 729 | PDF Page 766]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 729 (PDF page 766) ---
THE COVENANT AND THE PROMISE

From this we come to know of the person whom we call the Holy Ghost, who is a spirit, in full stature and size as that of a man.

Under the administration of the Holy Ghost, mankind can be and is influenced, in the manner described by the Master unto Nicodemus, as the listing and blowing of the wind, "and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit."27

As man obeys the gospel principles of faith and repentance, and fulfills all righteousness in being baptized by immersion, symbolizing death, burial, and resurrection, and all is done in worthiness by the covenant and promise, then he becomes the beneficiary of the promise of the Father in receiving the guiding and enlightening influence of the power administered by that appointed holy being, called the Holy Ghost. This great power is a guiding light, a comforting influence, a testifying power in every walk of life to the righteous man. Its manifestation to each person, as described by the Prophet Elijah, is that of "a still small voice." The witness of this, the greatest power upon the earth, was invoked upon Elijah, the Tishbite prophet, who, seeking refuge in the caves of Mount Horeb, while the Lord God demonstrated the many physical powers of destruction that could be visited upon the enemies of this great prophet of the sealing

27John 3:7-8.
28I Kings 19:8-13; See The Lord Speaketh, pp. 303-305.
29D&C 93:38.
30Moses 6:54.
31D&C 93:39.

power, witnessed, "a great and strong wind rent the mountains, and broke in pieces the rocks ... but the Lord was not in the wind; and after the wind an earthquake; but the Lord was not in the earthquake; And after the earthquake a fire; but the Lord was not in the fire; and after the fire a still small voice."28 (Italics added.)

Accountability and Infant Baptism

In a revelation from God unto the Prophet Joseph Smith at Kirtland, Ohio, in May of 1833, the innocence of the spirit of man in his infant mortal state was affirmed: "Every spirit of man was innocent in the beginning; and God having redeemed man from the fall, men became again, in their infant state, innocent before God."29

It was revealed unto Moses, as previously referred to, "that the Son of God hath atoned for the original guilt,"30 thus relieving any man of accountability for the transgression or the sin of another. The innocence of the spirit of man in his infant state continues until he reaches a time of accountability, wherein he comes to know good and evil, at which time, as the Lord further revealed, covering the conditions which actually develop in each personal life: "... that wicked one cometh and taketh away light and truth, through disobedience, from the children of men and because of the tradition of their fathers."31

It can be seen, therefore, that the spirit of man, in his earth life infant state is without sin, and continues in this condition until, through experience and growing

729
