[Vol52 | February | Magazine Page 99 | PDF Page 103]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 93% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 99 (PDF page 103) ---
FEBRUARY 1965

"I'd appreciate it," whispered Janet.
"Hah?" The old man leaned closer.
The woman in the red muu-muu nodded vigorously and the old man shuffled off. Janet noticed that he had removed his cowboy boots and it touched her that he should be padding off in his stocking feet in search of a doctor for Danny.
"Anybody got any aspirin?" asked the woman in the red muu-muu loudly. "We should try to bring his temperature down," she said to Janet.
There were murmurs of "I usually carry some with me" and sounds of people stirring in their belongings, but no aspirins were produced.
"I'll go find the conductor," said the girl in the black pleated skirt. "He will probably know where we can find some." She disappeared down the aisle.

THE woman in the red muu-muu tried to shift Danny to the seat where he would be more comfortable, but he clung to his mother and cried mournfully.
It wasn't long until the old man with the cowboy hat returned with a middle-aged woman from another coach.
"Couldn't locate a doctor," he announced, "but I lassoed a lady who thinks she might help."
"I reared six children," explained the lady.
"I reared eight," said the woman in the red muu-muu, somewhat belligerently.
"Oh," laughed the woman. "You're already in capable hands," she told Janet, "but if I can help just let me know."

"I didn't mean you couldn't help," apologized the woman in the red muu-muu. "I'm sorry."
The lady from the other coach smiled. "That's all right. I was just going to suggest putting cold cloths on his head to cool him off, but you've probably already suggested that."
"As a matter of fact, I've just been standing here like a ninny," said the woman in the red muu-muu. "Let's go wet some cloths."
After the two women had wiped off his hot body and put a cold compress on his head, Danny seemed more comfortable, but he still twitched and moaned.
"Sure wish I could do something for the little nipper," the old man said.
"You've done more than you realize," said Janet.
"Hah?" said the old man.
Janet smiled up at him as she reached out to pat his hand, a gnarled, rough hand which reminded her of her grandfather's. Embarrassed, the old man removed his hat, fumbled with it, and returned it to his head. He looked up the aisle.
"Here comes the boss," he said, as if relieved to shift the attention away from himself.
The girl in black came toward them with the conductor in tow.
"Hear you've got a sick boy," the conductor said.
Janet nodded, her throat constricted by the kindness of these strangers who stood there so concerned.
"Think he needs a doctor?" asked the conductor.
Janet tried to say something but was afraid she would cry if she opened her mouth.

98
