[Vol52 | February | Magazine Page 101 | PDF Page 105]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 96% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 101 (PDF page 105) ---
FEBRUARY 1965

said the woman. "The children have all been sleeping quietly."

Janet looked deeply into the woman's pleasant gray eyes. "How can I ever thank you?" she said.

"You don't need to," said the woman.

The old man in the cowboy hat awakened and got creakily to his feet.

"How's the nipper?" he asked.

"I don't know for sure," said Janet. She felt Danny's forehead. "The fever seems to be gone."

"Hah?"

Danny jumped a little and his blue eyes opened. He stretched and yawned, then gazed fixedly at the old man in the cowboy hat. Abruptly he smiled.

"Where's your horse?" he asked in a clear, normal voice.

The old man bent closer. "Hah?"

"Your horse," repeated Danny,

amidst the happy, relieved laughter of the other passengers.

"Well, I'll tell you," said the old man, "you come on over to my corral here and I'll tell you about my horse."

With tears in her eyes, Janet regarded the people around her. She was shocked when she realized she didn't even know their names, but somehow they had become as dear to her as the people back home. A little later perhaps she would tell them about the misunderstanding concerning Greg, and they could all have a good laugh together. Greg — she could hardly wait to tell him how her adventure had turned out and what she had learned about people. What was Admiral Byrd's discovery compared to hers?

But Greg was still a day and a night away, and as for the rest of this trip she was going to relax and enjoy it — among friends.

Lael Jensen Littke, was born and grew up on a farm in Mink Creek, Idaho, and was graduated from Preston High School and Utah State University. She now lives in California.

"We have loved our first year in Southern California," she tells us, "and we have found many new friends in Monterey Park Ward and at California State College at Los Angeles where my husband, George G. Littke, teaches. In our travels we have found, as does the girl in my story, that there are wonderful people everywhere.

"One of my favorite activities here is attending a most stimulating writing class at Pasadena City College. I have sold two stories since the first of the year (1964).

"I am at present serving as stake theology class leader in Relief Society, a very challenging and rewarding position.

"Our four-and-a-half year old daughter, Lori, provides me with a model for the children in my stories. Right now she has a constant invisible companion—a frog whose grandmother is an alligator."

100
