[Vol52 | November | Magazine Page 834 | PDF Page 875]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 2%]

--- PAGE 834 (PDF page 875) ---
NOVEMBER 1965

per. You tenants are my family now. I'm going to have roast goose."

Surprised, he told her, "Why, that's what we always had. If it would make you happy, I'd love to. What time?"

"Oh, make it early, six-thirty, seven. We can have a long evening." 

"Not half as long as if I were upstairs alone. Even the stores close early." They both laughed, and he left the room much happier than she had ever seen him. Reluctantly, she locked the door and pulled the cord that lighted the tree. She must get some sleep.

It would be no problem getting Mr. and Mrs. Purdee to come down, if they didn't have children they were going to visit.

Christmas Eve was all she ever remembered its being: white with snow, and a flaky blanket of it still falling. The rooms smelled of pumpkin pie, suet pudding, goose and apples and prunes merging in juicy sweetness. Grandma Lunt was there. Charlie came next with his gift which he put under the tree. He was clean-shaven, and handsome; Barbara and her father followed. The Purdees came—but not for long, because they were going to their children where they were to get presents later. Chuck and Marcia hadn't arrived. Annie began to be nervous, she thought of phoning, but it might only aggravate a very embarrassing situation. So, she went ahead getting the food ready. Mr. Hall insisted on lifting the big bird onto the platter, and the others tried to help. Charlie and Barbara had found each other with their eyes, and smiled and talked in a way they might never have done any other night. But, where was the little family? Where was the child to make it all complete?

SHE was serving the mashed potatoes . . . slowly, to give them time . . . when the knock came at the door. Barbara answered it, and cried, "Hi, Marcia. I'm so glad you came." Then, surprised and pleased, "and Chuck and Paul. Oh, how wonderful."

The child was there, the table was ready, and the lights from the tree reflected on the crystal, china, and silver which Annie had saved for such a long time, and bought, hoping. . . .

Mr. Hall asked the blessing, then reached over and touched her hand, smiling at her in a way no one had done in many years, as if she were lovable, or even young.

Later, when the gifts had been opened, and they had all caught their collective breaths, they sang . . . the old songs, and the new.

Both Marcia and Chuck stood behind their boy who was on the piano stool with Annie. Once she saw them holding hands. Barbara and Charlie were side by side, smiling; Barbara's father was hovering above her, turning the sheet music, suggesting songs. It was just as she knew Christmas should be everywhere.

They left with the strains of "Silent Night," still soft on the air, left with the agreement that all (except the Purdees who weren't any problem anyway, and were going to be with their children) promising to

834
