[Vol52 | September | Magazine Page 661 | PDF Page 694]
[QC: PASS | OCR coverage: 95% | Novel words: 3%]

--- PAGE 661 (PDF page 694) ---
RING AROUND HER HEART

hind David, Joan smiled to herself. I'm far from being great, she thought, but still, I feel I really am accomplishing a great deal here. I feel that I am an efficient head nurse. She walked with a confident step to the end of the hall where the second floor nurses' station was in quite a hum of business.

As she approached, the voices died down a bit. The quiet laughing stopped.

"Two-forty-four is in quite a lot of pain. When did she have the last hypo?" Joan asked, reaching for the chart wheel.

Then she caught sight of the look in both Miss Jackson's and Kathy's eyes. She didn't need to look up to know that Doctor Desmond was somewhere near. She busied herself with the writing on the card and pretended not to notice. I hope it doesn't show in my eyes as it does in theirs, she thought.

By now, she knew her heart gave an extra little sigh whenever he was near, and this upset her. I'm too old for a schoolgirl crush, she kept telling herself. And she felt sure that's all it was, just an attraction. She also felt that he had made her feel this way on purpose. The way he had of looking at her, of teasing her ... just the same way he did all the others, she knew ... still, she felt he was especially attracted to her. Sometimes when their eyes met, she could feel he wasn't teasing ... even when he was scolding her, the message was there.

Doctor Desmond was talking to Kathy now, and the sound of his voice, so deep, so sincere made Joan all warm inside. That's pretty good, she thought. He's talking medical terms to another girl, and I get all flustered! She put the chart in its place and turned to go when he spoke her name.

"Miss Morgan."

She turned toward him.

"Have you finished your rounds?"

"Not completely." She didn't want to tell him that she still had Tom to visit, but was purposely waiting until after David had been there. She knew that to mention Tom's name always brought a strained feeling between them.

"Doctor Niles wanted me to ask you to come in and see him when you're through."

"Oh, thank you. Did he say what he wanted me for?"

The young doctor smiled. "No, he didn't. Have you been breaking any hospital regulations?"

Joan quickly looked at Kathy and Miss Jackson. She couldn't tell for sure if their smiles were like his, good naturedly laughing with her, or if they were secretly laughing at her.

As Joan stepped into Tom's room, she was disappointed. She had thought he would be busy with the exercises in the workbook. She had pictured him all smiles, all enthused. But, instead, the shades were still drawn, and the workbook was on his night stand.

"Hi, Tom," she said.

"Hello."

"How would you like to sit in your easy chair for a little while today?"

"How would you like to quit being so impossible? You know

661
