The Temple Block Mission is visited annually by some of the most distinguished men and women of the world. No one fails FIRST BUREAU OF INFORMATION to hear the organ and see the buildings. All are impressed with the majesty and greatness of the Tabernacle; all love the music of the organ. It is a well known truth that the Temple Block is a place where the artist may have his soul stirred to enthusiasm. The old wall around the block has lines and color that attract every body who has a love for the beautiful; the buildings are all distinct types, and the gull monument stimulates the inner feelings to a reverence for God and a respect for work and motherhood. Few places in the world are more interesting than the Temple Block. Its history alone shows the wonderful fortitude and bravery of the pioneers; it is the emblem of thrift and industry. It embodies the high ideals of culture of the "Mormon" people, for the buildings are expressions of a deep and idealistic religious  feeling. The lawn and flowers tell the stranger that the Latterday Saints are striving to make the earth beautiful; and they express something of their civic pride. The generation of men and women who built the Temple Block produced something of distinct importance; and out of them, during their time there sparked the creative impulse. "They dared to be themselves in the face of the gainsay: ng of the epochs of history," remarked one noted visitor recently. Today the Temple Block stands as a powerful encouragement of self-realization. It is the espousal of their destiny; it is something of the fulfilment of their lives. From the towers and walls of the great Temple, come a stirring impulse to build—and to build solidly. From them falls a breath—'a grandiloquent language''—a glory and a beauty that impel one to a greater faith in man, and consequently a greater faith in God. As one leaves the Block and wanders on up to the busy street, one feels the ever thrilling conflict in man's nature—the conflict of the spiritual and the material. Then, as it has ever been, and will ever be, one will again wander away from the busy world and seek the beauty and spirit of religion—the upbuilding forces that lead back to the throne of God.