Guide Lessons for December LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in January) MIRACLES OF THE LATTER DAYS (Continued) Some Ordinance Miracles: I?Res oration of the Lesser Priesthood. In this lesson we shall consider some ordinance miracles which form a vital part of the restoration of the gospel in this the dispensation of the fulness of times. The extended miracle of translating the Book of Mormon gave to the inhabitants of the earth the fulness of the everlasting gospel, as revealed to the ancient inhabitants of America, but it did not include the bringing back of the authority for man to officiate as an agent of the Lord _and thus become a sharer in divine respons: bility. The first ordinance miracle of record in the history of the Church was the recommissioning of man to act for Deity. This event is known as the restoration of the Lesser Priesthood. This miracle was preceded by an event in heaven. From among the resurrected beings, John the Baptist was selected to perform the mission of coming to earth to give to man divine authority, and to promise the coming of other messengers with the keys of a higher Priesthood. This ordinance miracle was performed on the 15th of May, 1829. When the messenger from on h'gh arrived he found John and Oliver engaged in prayer. He introduced himself, performed the ordinance, supplemented it with instructions and promises, and departed. On that same day the first two authoritative baptisms on the earth for centuries were performed. The Priesthood of Aaron, which was left among the Israelites after the death of Moses, and during the apostasy lost to earth, was restored with the keys or authority to confer it on others. Of this event Oliver Cowdery writes: "Ona sudden, as from the midst of eternity, the voice of the Redeemer spake peace to us, while the veil was parted and the angel of God came down clothed with glory and delivered the anxiously looked for message, and the keys of the gospel of repentance. What joy! What wonder! What amazement! While the world was wicked and dis-  tracted, while millions were groping as the blind for the wall, and while all men were resting upon uncertainty as a general mass, our eyes beheld?our ears heard. As in the blaze of day; yes, more?above the glitter of the May sunbeam, which then shed its brilliancy over the face of nature. Then his voice, though mild, pierced to the center, and his words: 'I am thy fellow-servant,' dispelled every fear. We listened, we gazed, we admired! 'Twas the voice of an angel from glory, twas a message from the Most High, and as we heard we rejoiced, while his love enkindled upon our souls, and we were wrapt in the vision of. The Almighty! Where was room for doubt? Nowhere; uncertainty had fled, doubt had sunk, no more to rise, while fiction and deception had fled forever." History of the Church, Vol. I, pages 42, 43. II?The Restoration of the Higher Priesthood. ? | Another ordinance miracle, of brief record, was the restoration of the Higher Priesthood which was promised in the first ordinance miracle. Although the date and place are not definitely given, the fact of the miracle being performed is unmistakably set forth in Doc. And Cov. Section 27:12;128:20, and that it was performed on the Susquehanna River. Section 128:20 contains the testimony of the Prophet concerning this miraculous event. As to the time of this miracle, there seems to be evidence that it was performed before the organization of the Church. The account of the organization of the Church reads: "We still continued to bear testimony and give information, as far as we had opportunity; and also made known to our brethren that we had received a commandment to organize the Church; and accordingly we met together for that purpose, at the home of Peter ~ Whitmer, Sen., (being six in number) on Tuesday, the sixth day of April, A. D., one thousand eight hundred and thirty, Having opened the meeting by solemn prayer'to our heavenly Father, we proceeded according to previous commandment, to call on our brethren to know whether they accepted us as their teachers in the things of the kingdom of God, and whether they were satisfied that we should proceed and be organized as a Church according to said commandment which we had received. To these several propositions they consented by a unanimous vote. I then laid my hands upon Oliver Cowdery, and ordained him an Elder of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints; after which he ordained me also to the office of an Elder of the Church. We then took bread, blessed it, and broke it with them; also wine, blessed it, and drank it with them. We then laid our hands on each individual member of the Church present that they might receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and be confirmed members of the  ie of Christ."?History of the Church, Vol. I, pages 75, 76,, 78. Here at the organization of the Church elders were ordained. Persons who had been baptized by water received the ordinance for a spiritual baptism, and were confirmed members of the Church, all of which was beyond the authority of the Aaronic Priesthood. ITI?An Ordinance Miracle of Hymnal Reference. For a consideration of this topic, the student is referrred to the lines in the first stanza of "Pra'se to the man who communed with Jehovah," reading: "Praise to the man who communed with Jehovah! Jesus anointed that Prophet and Seer." with the suggestion that special consideration be given to the word "anointed." When it is remembered that W. W. Phelps, the author of this hymn, was a man of prominence in the Church and closely associated with the Prophet Joseph, we can hardly think. That he - would have used the word anointed as he did without historical justification. The chain of events solemnly, and yet simply, referred to by the Prophet Joseph as recorded in Sec. 128:20, were all miraculous, as also was the acceptance of the Kirtland temple by the Savior, the conferring of the keys of the gathering by Moses, the renewal of the Abrahamic promise by Elias, the keys for turning the hearts of the children to the fathers and the fathers - to the children by Elijah. One significant fact is prominent in the l'fe of the Prophet Joseph in his relation to miraculous events. He was wonderfully humble. C Among the first revelations that he received, was one promising the coming of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and, the hearts of the children to the fathers. How he must have longed for the fulfilment of this promise; and yet with these longings he patiently waited the time of the Lord. He never attempted to enter any sacred doors without first having the keys; he never attempted to open this dispensation faster than he was authorized. His humility was absolute assurance against humiliation. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What three lines of action were authorized through the restoration of the Aaronic Priesthood? Doc. And Cov. Sec. 13. 2. Who was the mother of John the Baptist? What were  the circumstances of his birth? What wonderful mission did he perform on the earth in mortality? 3. What evidence have we that he was a resurrected being when he performed this Latter-day ordinance miracle? 4. In what official relation did he stand to Peter, James, and John? ? 5. How did Joseph and Oliver know that John the Baptist was not an imposter? 6. How may a clear knowledge concerning the miracle of the restoration of the Priesthood be used by parents to awaken in their sons an interest in and a desire for the Priesthood? 7. How may a knowledge of the miraculous events of the Kirtland temple dedication be used to encourage temple marriages? 8. What evidence have we that the Melchizedek Priesthood was restored before the organization of the Church, April 6, 1830? LESSON II Work and Business.