[Vol29 | May 1942 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: A Mission to End Lyman]
I thought she was above all women," A Mission To End A War Albert R. Lyman HE 'southwest corner of 'Utah was an unexplored wilderness in 1879. It had neither road nor white man's trail; it had no civic organization, and no name.
Into its southern border extended the reservation of the Navajos who, y their bold and persistent plundering of Utah's southern settlements, had caused an intermittent war to drag on for more than twenty years. In one year the Navajos stole a million dollars' worth of cattle, sheep, and horses, murdering the herders, or the guards, and escaping with their plunder before the raids became known. As a bid for peace with these native-born robbers, the leaders of the Church decided to plant a colony right on the turbulent border of the reservation. It was a perilous undertaking, as different from the popular ways of gaining peace as Mormon policies generally are different from the popular ways of the world. The Church considered that although peace might be obtained by the strength of superior numbers, it could best be won by superior faith and love and courage. In the spring of 1879, the Church sent twenty-five chosen scouts from Cedar City by way of Buckskin Mountains (now called the Kaibabs ) and Lee's Ferry to find a place for the proposed colony.
These men  two of them having their families with them explored their way from Moin Kopy northeast across the reservation toward "The Four Corners," reaching the San Juan River at the mouth of a canyon which they called the "Montezuma."
After weeks of exploring, they decided this was the place to establish the settlement.
Leaving the two families as a nucleus for the colony, the men returned to Cedar City, traveling northwest by way of what is nqw Moab, through Castle Valley, by Salina and up the Sevier River, reaching Cedar City in October. In seven months they had _ traveled about nine hundred miles in an irregular circle, and in the heart of that circle was a country different from anything they had imagined. The wide area which was to become San Juan County, with its deep gulches and high mountains, has a wide elevation range, in some places the altitude being as high as 8,000 feet.
Cretaceous strata are found on the highest peaks and very old carboniferous layers on the lower levels. By the time the returning scouts reached Cedar City, a company of about eighty families was ready to start for the selected place in the dooryard of the Navajo nation.
Instead of going, as the scouts had done, by way of the long half circle of 450 miles to the south, or by way of the other half circle by which the scouts had returned, the company 'determined to head straight across the big circle from Cedar City to the mouth of Montezuma.
They expected to find a way through and make a road as they went, to take three or four weeks for the trip, and to miss the rigors of winter.
They started in November.
After passing Potato Valley, now called Escalante, they entered a trackless Page 297 298 region not intended for wagons.
Each new mile added to their astonishment as they viewed the unusual contour of the country.
This was a region where Nature's sculptors had brushed away the soil and chiseled the bare rock into weird and fantastic shapes. 'There were chasms and reefs and rims to defy travel in aaything but an airplane.
Somebody had found what was considered a possible place for a road over a towering bluff of the deep gorge of the Colorado River. The teamsters in the lead of the company arrived at this point in the fore part of December.
They gasped at the dizzy profile of the cliff over which the road was supposed to be made. But the tide of their resolution was too strong to be turned by difficulties, and so their president, Silas S. Smith, started back to the settlements to secure from the state legislature an appropriation to build the road. Platte D.
Lyman and Jense Nielson were left in charge of the company. HEN the president had gone, the company undertook the stupendous task of making a road down the almost vertical two miles from the brow of the cliff to the river. 'They decided, however, that this was quite impossible, and that the only sane thing to do was to give up and return to the settlements. But no recent snows had piled up deep on the mountains behind them, and their only alternative was to hew a way out and go on or sit there and starve while they waited for spring.
They answered the challenge of their predicament with firm resolution to make the merry most of it.
Acting at once to make sure of their RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY, 1942 food supply, they began parching for their own subsistence the corn they had brought along for their teams.
They contrived to open a passsage down through what is still known as "Hole-in-the-rock." It was a crevice. Too narrow for a wagon, and _ its boulder-strewn floor was too steep for anything on wheels.
Below this cleft was a stretch of smooth rock, and below that were soft sand slides and broken ledges leading to the river bank.. But where was the mouth of Montezuma? In what direction did it lie? How far away was it, and what surprise barrier might still hem them off from reaching it in this unorthodox country?
Beyond the river the naked surfaces, forbiddingly on edge, suggested that it would not be easy to get through, and maybe it would be impossible.
Four special scouts were chosen, Lemuel H. Redd, Sr., George Sevy, George Morrill, and George Hobbs, to find the mouth of Montezuma.
With the toughest horses and mules to be found in the company, these four men disappeared into the maze of wilderness east of the river on December 17. The road workers, some of them anchored to the steep surfaces by ropes, swung their picks and hammers with joke and song, resolved to make the occasion as pleasant as it was unusual. One of their most resourceful road engineers was "Uncle" Ben Perkins, a Welchman, full of song and good humor; and then, by happy accident, they had Samuel Cox, still remembered for his leather breeches and fiddle. When Christmas time came they carried on their backs great loads of shad-scale brush from the sand hills to replenish their fire, and in the THE BELOVED OLD SWING TREE WHICH SHELTERED A GROUP OF PEOPLE HOLDING THE FIRST SUNDAY SCHOOL AT BLUFF, UTAH 300 glare of the firelight they danced on the bare rock to the animated strains of Brother Cox's fiddle as its music echoed through the solitude. But the four scouts!
What must have befallen them was painful to contemplate.
They had been gone more than three weeks when one day they came dragging into camp with a thrilling story of adventure in a country different from anything else in the West.
They had found narrow passes through one huge barrier after another, the most remarkable of all being one they called "Clay Hill." From Clay Hill they had had to veer twenty-five miles to the left of their course to. Get across Grand Gulch.
Then they had had to veer as far to the right to get through the Comb Reef.
They had been lost in a snow storm and suffered much with cold and hunger, but they had found the mouth of Montezuma, and had blazed a trail for the company to follow. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY, 1942 FIRST SCHOOLHOUSE AND CHURCH, BLUFF, UTAH ERECTED IN 1880 ON 'the sixth of April, ragged and thin, with wagons worn and rickety and teams staggering in their collars, that company reached a place on the San Juan River fifteen miles below the mouth of Montezuma.
Wrecked wagons, worn-out and dead animals marked the trail behind them. The river bottom, fifteen miles below the selected location, was the very first place they had seen that was in any way fit for them to stop; with many of them it was the last point to which their teams could take them.
