[Vol29 | May 1942 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: The Eighteen Woolf]

Among those two tribes are some very splendid men and women whose hearts are white however dusky their outside appearance may be: The Eighteen Charter Members Of Relief Society Marjorie M. Woolf URING the Relief Society centennial year it is appropriate that we turn back the pages of time and pay tribute to eighteen valiant women who were in attendance at the first mecting of the Society, and. Who helped to lay the foundation that has so firmly supported this organization up to the present time. The women of the Church in Nauvoo felt the need of an organization in order that they might better accomplish desired ends, both spiritual and temporal, so they met in Sarah Ann Kimball's parlor one afternoon and discussed plans for formulating a society. Eliza R.
Snow wrote a constitution and a set of bylaws that encompassed the ideals and objectives of the group.
These were submitted to the Prophet Joseph Smith for counsel and approval. The Prophet said they were very good, but he had something better for the women. He invited them to meet with him one week later in the Lodge Room of the. Joseph Smith Store, at which time he organized them "under the Priesthood and after the pattern of the Priesthood." The eighteen women in attendance at this organization meeting were: Emma Hale Smith The first Relief Society president was a queenly woman, stately and dignified, with soft, dark hair which she wore parted in the middle. She was born in Harmony, Susquehanna County, Pennsylvania, July 10, Page 304 1804. She was generous, sympathetic, and in every way a leader. In a revelation given through the Prophet Joseph Smith, she was called an "elect lady," and was given the task of making a collection of sacred hymns. In 1841, a hymnbook for the use of the Church, containing 304 hymns selected by Emma Smith, was published. At the organization meeting, March 17, 1842, Emma was made president of the Female Relief Society of Nauvoo. Sarah M. Cleveland Sarah M.
Cleveland was the first counselor to Emma Smith in the presidency of the Female Relief Society. She lived directly across the street from the Prophet and Emma in Nauvoo. She and Emma were very friendly.
When the Saints were driven out of Missouri in the spring of 1839, Emma Smith and her children were cared for and given shelter by the Clevelands until the Prophet was released from prison.
After coming to Nauvoo, the Prophet wrote to the Clevelands, saying he had selected them a lot near him and Emma. Sarah Cleveland was practical, ambitious, quick, and kind. She suggested the name "Nauvoo Female Relief Society" for the new organization. Elizabeth Ann Whitney Elizabeth Ann Whitney was second counselor to Emma Smith. She was born December 26, 1800, in Derby, New Haven County, Con- THE EIGHTEEN CHARTER MEMBERS necticut. She came to Ohio from New England when a young girl.
Here she met Newel K. Whitney, a prosperous young merchant, whom she later married.
Newel and Elizabeth Whitney were living in Kirtland when the Prophet first came to that place. As the Prophet stepped from the sleigh he extended his hand and said, "Newel, thou art the man." He recognized him from a dream he had had., Sister Whitney was always proud of the fact that she was the first to entertain Brother Joseph when he came to Kirtland. She was a very pretty woman, friendly, had a beautiful voice and often sang in Relief Society meetings. She made an inestimable contribution to Relief Society. Eliza R. Snow Eliza R. Snow, was born in Becket, Berkshire County, Massachusetts, January 21, 1804. Her parents were of English descent. 'The Snows bestowed great care upon the education of their children.
Eliza possessed great literary ability which evidenced itself when she was very young. A number of her poems written after she accepted the Gospel embodied Church history and doctrine.~ Most of us are familiar with "O My Father," "Though Deepening Trials," and others. In Kirtland she taught a select _ school for young ladies, and boarded at the Prophet's home. She was also a governess to the Prophet's children. At the organization of Relief Socicty she was made secretary. Later, in-the Valley, she became general president. When Sister Snow was asked, "What is this Relief Society?" she answered: 305 It is an institution formed to bless The poor, the widow, and the fatherless; To clothe the naked and the hungry feed, And in the holy paths of virtue lead. To seek out sorrow, grief, and mute despair, And light the lamp of hope eternal there; To try the strength of consolation's art By breathing comfort to the mourning heart. Phoebe N. Wheeler Phoebe N.
Wheeler was assistant secretary of the Female Relief Society. She was very gentle and yet possessed such <a spirit of strength that she was a source of encouragement to those less blessed. She could always be depended upon to handle a trying situation with tact and wisdom. Her contribution to the organization was of great benefit. Elvira A. Coles (Cowles) Elvira Coles was the first treasurer of the Relief Society. She was a beautiful young girl at the time of the organization meeting in March, 1842. In December, the Wasp, the Nauvoo paper, reported her marriage to Jonathan H.
Holmes as one of the social events of the holiday season. Sophia Robinson Sophia Robinson was a woman of culture and refinement, who courageously and cheerfully met her numerous obligations. She was a worthy leader of women and beloved by her co-workers.
There were many Robinsons in the Church in early days.
Many of them, as sturdy pioneers, came to the Valley. Sarah M. Kimball Sarah M.
Kimball was born December 29, 1818, in Phelps, Ontario County, New York. She was Sarah Melissa Granger. Her parents moved 306 to Kirtland soon after the Church was established there.
Here she met Hiram Kimball, whom she later married. As a gitl she sought after knowledge, and received a good education which was a great help to her later as a teacher and leader among women. The Kimballs had a_ beautiful home in Nauvoo. It was there that the women first met to discuss the possibility of having an organization.
Sarah came to the Valley in 1852. She was a most able president of the Fifteenth Ward Relief Society in Salt Lake City. She was a staunch advocate of woman's suffrage, and contended for it with all the ability she had. She was an ardent admirer of Susan B. Anthony. Her name is on the roll of honor of the National American Suffrage Association as honorary vice-president. When Eliza R.
Snow was chosen president of the Relief Society, Sarah M.
Kimball was made secretary. She possessed a tall, commanding figure and a face of remarkable dignity and sweetness. Phoebe Ann Hawkes Phoebe Ann Hawkes was born in Connecticut in 1803, and was thirtynine years old when she became a charter member of Relief Society.
What a joy it was to her to have this honor, and how well she carried on! She was privileged to have John Smith, the Prophet's uncle, give her a patriarchal blessing.
Elizabeth Hughes Jones Elizabeth Hughes Jones was born in New York City in 1803, the daughter of Katherine and John Hughes. The Hughes were converted in New York and gathered to Missouri with the Saints. Elizabeth RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE MAY, 1942 was faithful and dependable. Hyrum _ Smith gave her a patriarchal blessing. Leonora Taylor Leonora 'Taylor was from Canada. She was the daughter of Captain George Cannon. She married John Taylor, who later became President of the Church. The Taylors were converted in Canada and made several trips to Nauvoo before they took | up permanent residence there. John Taylor was called on many missions, and_ during his absence Sister Taylor had full responsibility of the family. Her cares were many, for there was much sickness, but she stood the test and remained true and steadfast when many would have faltered. Sister 'Taylor played the organ for the first Relief Society meetings. Margaret Cook Margaret Cook was a seamstress in Sarah Kimball's home, and was very anxious to be of use in furthering the cause of the Temple: She made shirts for the men and helped to mend their clothes.
This work she donated as her contribution to the Temple. She was very proud to be a charter member of Relief Society. Martha Knight Martha Knight, the wife zi Vinson Knight, was Martha McBride, of New York, born in 1805.
Martha lived for some time in the Prophet's home, and was just the type to help carry on Relief Society work. The Prophet knew her strength of character, and she didn't fail him. Her descendants, the Knights of Provo, are glad to remember Martha as their kin. She was married by the Prophet. | THE EIGHTEEN CHARTER MEMBERS Sophia R. Marks Sophia R.
Marks was greatly admired by the Prophet for her untiring support of the Gospel cause. She and her family were consistent laborers in the Church.
Sophia was kind and tolerant, and did much to brighten the lives of those with whom she came in contact. It was a distinct honor for Sophia to be numbered among the group who attended that first Relief Society meeting in Nauvoo. Philinda Merrick Philinda Merrick was a widow, and helped support herself by sewing. Her husband was killed in Missouri by a mob. Brigham Young had helped her to move to Nauvoo. She often told of the first meeting of the Relief Society and how Emma Smith had urged the women present to give Sister Merrick their sewing and to be prompt with their payments, reminding them, "Sister Merrick is a widow, is industrious, and performs her work well.... We must help the widows." Sophia Packard Sophia Packard was Sophia Bundy, of Massachusetts, before she martied Noah Packard. She was the mother of one son. The Packards were great friends of the Whitmer family, and Sophia was baptized into the Church by David Whitmer.
Sophia was a quiet woman and more inclined to boast of her husband's accomplishments than her own. Desdemona Fulmer Desdemona Fulmer was born in Pennsylvania, October 6, 1809, the daughter of Peter and Susanna Ful- 307 mer. A number of Fulmers belonged to the Church in early days; some of them came to the Valley and settled in Springville, Utah.
Desdemona was thirty-three years old and unmarried when she attended the organization meeting of Relief Society. Joseph Smith, Sr.
Gave her a patriarchal blessing. Bathsheba W. Smith Bathsheba Bigler Smith was born in West Virginia, May 3, 1822. As a gitl she was very fond of horses, and few could excel her in horsemanship. She was religiously inclined, and loved honesty, virtue, and integrity.
When she was fifteen, the Biglers were visited by Latter-day Saint missionaries, and by the spirit of the Lord were convinced that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of the Lord.
Like many others, the Biglers sacrificed the comforts of their well-ordered home and joined the Saints in Missouri. Here Bathsheba saw the tragic experiences of the Saints. From Missouri the Biglers moved with the Saints to Nauvoo, and in 1841
Bathsheba was married to George A. Smith, a cousin of the Prophet, and one of the Twelve Apostles. She was but nineteen years of age, the youngest woman present, on that memorable occasion when Relief Society was organized. The Smiths came to the Valley, and later made many trips with Brigham Young throughout Utah and Colorado. In 1911