[Vol29 | May 1942 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Editorial | Title: Mothers in War Sorensen]

335 O  EDITORIAL ~~ 1942
Mothers Irn War Sime OST individuals are becoming increasingly aware that with the war changes are coming rapidly in every phase of national life. Under war conditions adjustments must be made by each individual, as necessity arises. Some people are caught up by war hysteria and are ready immediately to relinquish all they have struggled for and valued, while others are too complacent and do not recognize the danger at hand. As mothers, it is necessary for us to realize that eventually all must sacrifice in this struggle; but it is also imperative, if lasting human values are to be conserved, for us to decide wisely the adjustments and the concessions which must be made. With the great need for each individual to be patriotic and loyal to her government, mothers misinterpret the best way to assist their nation. Mothers of young children sometimes feel tempted to leave their growing children and go to work in industry. At the present time this sacrifice is not asked for by the United States Government. In most cases this would place serious handicaps on the proper development of children. Children "cannot delay the growing-up process until the mother remains at home again to teach them the lessons which she only has the responsibility and the authority and the love to teach them." "What they will be, they are now becoming." Rage 336
Dorothy Canfield Fisher has said, "You can interrupt the improving of a road and ten years later go on with it about where you left off, but if you interrupt decent care for children and ten years later begin again to feel responsible for them, you can by no means begin where you left off. You find them irreparably grown up, and grown up wrong enemies and liabilities of their community, rather than friends and assets." Any good mother knows that no woman who is brought into the home to care for children will take the same interest in their welfare as the mother herself does.
Children are beset by fears in war time. The news, the conversation, the reading  material, all dwell on the current struggle.
Children are also quick to feel the insecurity which grips adults in times of stress.. No one can allay fears and foster proper attitudes as well as the mother. Children's spiritual and emotional well-being is furthered by the attentive, observant mother at home. 'Their needs are met and satisfied at the time they are disclosed the logical time. Not only are the emotional and spiritual needs met in the most satisfactory way by the mother, but the physical health of the child, which is of major importance at the present time, is fostered. It is a form of patriotism to so care for the physical needs of the family in war time that Vol. 29 MAY, EDITORIAL family members are kept healthy and the energy and time of doctors in the community are conserved. In order to make wise decisions in these trying days, need we remind ourselves as parents that spirits were clothed with mortal bodies and given to us to care for, and for these we are responsible? 'This is our first responsibility, but to the mother whose tasks are many and whose hours are long, other work appears to be easier. It is a shortsighted, 'selfish attitude which asks for an easier way of life for the present at the cost of family character and stability later. No contribution to a nation is greater than the rearing of fine, stalwart citizens who maintain the standards and ideals of that nation. Let no mother performing her multitudinous daily tasks for her children feel that her effort is small in the war economy. To Latter-day Saints who believe in the sacredness of the family and the continuance of family ties into the eternity, no effort or sacrifice is too great to establish proper attitudes and relationships which will endure forever. In 1909, the first White House Conference on Children in a Democracy gave eloquent and true emphasis to home life: "Home life is 337 the highest and finest production of character. It is the great molding force of mind and character.
Children should not be deprived of it except for urgent and compelling reasons."
This we firmly believe, and, as mothers in the Church, let us not be guilty of placing our values on the things of this world to the neglect of storing up "riches for eternity." Let us accept wholeheartedly the counsel of Church leaders at last April conference when they advised: It is our patriotic duty to be as fully effective in production at home as our boys are effective in combat in the field.
Those in the front lines cannot be strong unless those behind the lines are strong also. To meet this patriotic duty and to prepare for this threatening condition, we urge all parents to guard with zealous care the health of their children....
Keep them home in the evening and remain home to enjoy them.... Parents, prepare yourselves and your children for the times to come. So live, day by day, that you may with confidence ask the blessings of health with which the Lord clothes those whom, living righteously, He delights to succor. This Mother's Day should find the mothers of this Church with young children, at home, devoting their energies to the proper upbringing of those children as their most patriotic gesture in the war.