[Vol29 | May 1942 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Centennial Music Madsen]

Page 333
Centennial Music Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen OW that the centennial programs are over and we are again back to the regular routine of things, let us take a few minutes of our time and reflect upon the various conttibutions of worth that have been  made for this our hundredth anniversary. It has often been said that woman's ingenuity is boundless she enters all fields and brings home grains of gold.
Imagination has been given full sway during this centennial year, and as a result of it considerable creative genius has come to light. There _ have been original stories and poems of interest, tableaus and pageants that have depicted the lives of the eight general presidents of the Relief Society or that have portrayed important events which have transpired during the one hundred years of Relief Society activity.
Song contests have been held to stimulate the musically talented to original expression along this line.
Some good talent has been discovered as a result of these contests.
Songs have been written that were particularly appropriate and fitting for the various programs.
This added a bit of local color to the occasions and created even greater interest in the programs. We wish to commend those who have contributed original compositions, and we encourage them to keep active in this field of endeavor. It is not expected that these first attempts at composition will be faultless.
That would be expecting the impossible. But, as "practice makes perfect," we do expect in time to eliminate our imperfections and Page 334 overcome our difficulties by increasing our knowledge of music and by consistently working toward the building up of a better musical background. The Singing Mothers throughout the Church have participated generously in the centennial programs. The cantata by B. Cecil Gates, "Resurrection Morning," always a favorite with singers, was presented in many of the wards. Also, concerts were given wherein all the numbers were used that were to have been sung in the general centennial concert in Salt Lake City.
This represented a great deal of careful drilling, but it brought satisfaction and joy when the task was completed. It is hoped that the singing groups will continue to use these fine songs so that others may also hear and enjoy them. It is in this way that we can raise ourselves to a higher level musically and increase our appreciation for better music. We wish to congratulate Gladys Rich on her recent cantata, "Messengers of Mercy," the words for which were written by Minnie D. Warner. 'This cantata was written especially for the centennial, and was beautifully sung by the Singing Mothers of Ogden at its premier performance. The work is full of spiritual fervor. 'The choruses are appealing and dynamic and strongly urge toward loyalty to God and our country.
With the repeated trumpet calls in the accompaniment one feels deeply: the significance of the words, "For out of every nation come cries of sore distress.
Endless is the need for us to comfort and. To bless."