[Vol29 | May 1942 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Editorial | Title: Greetings]

WITH the dawning of the New Year—our centennial year—the General Board extends affectionate greetings to Relief Society women throughout the Church.

How happy and blessed we are in our membership in an organization which for one hundred years has been devoted to the cause of humanity and the glory of God—a mission for which it was organized and set apart by its Prophet-founder.

As we look back over the long road which has been traveled, we can visualize the brave women of each period who have made their contribution and passed the work on to others, leaving their memories and inspiration as a precious heritage to those who have followed.

As we review the work of the past year, which is typical of that of other years, the feeling uppermost in our hearts is one of sincere thanksgiving and gratitude to you dear sisters of today for your earnest labors and notable achievements, and to our Heavenly Father for the manifold blessings and mercies He has bestowed upon us and upon our organization.

While we have cause for rejoicing in our growth, development, and accomplishments, we are not unmindful of the sorrows and suffering in many lands today, of the unrest which is spreading over the whole face of the earth, and of the tendency to destroy instead of to build. And we wonder what the New Year will bring. Our constant prayer is that in this New Year which is especially sacred to us, and which is our most important milepost, the forces of evil may be destroyed, that misunderstanding, selfishness, and hate may be removed from the hearts of men, and that sympathy, understanding, and reason, and the spirit of the Master may enter therein; that war may cease and peace be established in the earth.

It is the plain teaching of history that there is only one way to avoid war, and that is to remove the causes of war. We believe it is within the power of men to put into operation those forces that would bring this about, and that this could be done if they would carefully study and be willing to apply in their daily lives the teachings of the Savior. Jesus said:

... Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. (Matthew 22:37-39)

Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets. (Matthew 7:12)

If the abiding aim of all the people of the world could be the promotion and practice of these divine teachings, which foster love for, and faith in, all mankind, it would be the greatest step that could be taken to bring about permanent peace.

That we may in our own lives rededicate ourselves to the way of life proposed by the Master is our earnest prayer.

Amy Brown Lyman,
Marcia K. Howells,
Donna D. Sorensen,
General Presidency.

Vera W. Pohlman,
General Secretary-Treasurer.
