[Vol29 | May 1942 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Weapons Women May Kirkham]
Effort is to have a thorough cleanup of both the inside of the home and the surrounding area.
Cleanliness promotes not only beauty, but health; a: beautiful home is, almost without exception, a healthy one. All places wherein
WEAPONS WOMEN MAY USE 343 

  MAY, 1942 WHEN TRANSPLANTING FROM COLD FRAME TO GARDEN BE SURE TO TAKE A GOOD BALL OF SOIL WITH THE _ ROOTS 1) 2, - DP. D> SF DIG HOLES WIDE AND DEEP ENOUGH TO SET ROOTS NATURAL POSITION. IN WITH A SHARP KNIFE. | FOR A FEW DAYS - TRIM OFF STRAGGLY ROOTS FIRM THE SOIL WITH YOUR FINGERS. WATER WELL AND PROTECT FROM SUN AND WIND TRANSPLANTING TO INSURE SURVIVAL Transplanting is a task which Victory Gardeners must perform throughout the garden year. Survival: The following points, if observed, Dig a hole large enough to spread out the roots without crowding.
Will insure plants a reasonable chance of In the case of seedlings which have a long tap root, it will help promote stocky growth if this tap root is shortened. See that soil is filled in properly to cover the roots, and then firm the soil. The soil should be soaked after the transplanting operation is finished. A little dry soil sprinkled over the surface will check evaporation.
Observe distances carefully in transplanting.
Vigorous growth in seedlings will be assured if plant food is applied while plants are small.
Disease germs may lurk or which are a menace to health should be thoroughly cleaned, and refuse should be removed or destroyed.
Along with the spring cleanup another weapon is placed in the hands of women that of salvaging all materials that will be useful to America's war needs. The Government is asking that every scrap of discarded rubber be saved, including old rubber gloves, wringer rolls, rubber heels and footwear, hot water bottles, rubber garden hose, old tires and inner tubes. Old scrap metals and metal tubes, such as toothpaste tubes, are needed for re-use.
Discarded clothing should be salvaged. Old rags are needed for wiping-rags in plants manufacturing war munitions and machinery; they are also needed for making roofing and flooring materials. Our factories must have raw materials to make the weapons our fighting men need if victory is to be won.
Some of this material can be found in almost every home. A thorough cleanup of homes and surroundings will find such things hidden away in attics, basements, storerooms, garages, barnyards, on farm lots and in other places.
Each type of salvaged material should be kept WEAPONS WOMEN MAY USE separate from other types of material. It is important that all salvaged materials go promptly into hands that will assure their being reclaimed and used. In the daily papers, over the radio, and in other ways announcements will be made giving details as to how, when, and where salvage will be gathered and may be marketed.
Under the State Council of Defense, a campaign to gather this much-needed material is planned for Utah.
Many church groups, civic, and charitable organizations are making a project of gathering this salvage. Thus, they are rendering a patriotic service and at the same time may secure a small fund 345 for their organization by disposing of this salvage to a junk dealer or a war-time salvage collection agency. It is important to remember that the Government is. Not asking for anything that is useful to, or needed by the family, home, or farm.
Only material is wanted that would otherwise be destroyed or discarded.
Every conceivable weapon is needed to win the war.
Four effective ones are: good health; victory 'gardens both vegetable and flower; clean homes and surroundings; and the salvage of all materials that might be of value to the Government.
