[Vol29 | May 1942 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: Happenings Cannon]

HAP PEN NGS
Annie Wells Cannon Now comes Maytime loveliness to cheer a weeping world. NNA JARVIS, while traveling through the United States in the interest of creating sentiment in favor of Mother's Day, told Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells that she hoped the day would never be used for the benefit of trade. The purpose of the day was merely for a gesture of remembrance to Mother, most beloved by wearing a white carnation and making a visit, if possible, or sending a message. Days of remembrance, Mother's Day and Memorial Day, are fitting holidays for this month when Earth smiles in all her beauty. UEEN WILHELMINA, of the Netherlands, assured her men of the army and navy, by broadcast, that there will be a reorganization, and that they will continue to fight shoulder to shoulder toward victory. PRINCESS ELIZABETH _ teceived her confirmation recently in the private chapel of Windsor Castle. The King, the Queen, Queen Mary, Princess Margaret, and the Princess Royal were present. '(ARGARET CULKING BANNING, novelist, speaking at an international symposium on "Woman in War" said that, "our kind of civilization has not made women soft, and before the end of 1942 every healthy girl and woman in the United States will have her own job in war assignment. We shall fight close to the battlefields and far behind them." Other noted women spoke similarly. MBE:. FRANK LOGAN, founder of the Logan Art award of $500 for the best picture entered annually at the Chicago Institute of Art, has now formed a society called "Sanity in Art." She calls the modern trend "insane." ACHEL LYMAN FIELD, author of All This and Heaven Too, and Carolyn Wells, popular author of juvenile stories, nonsense _ verse, and detective novels, died this spring. ELESTIA SNOW GARDNER, 83, has written a history of the two pioneer families Wailliam Snow and Robert Gardner. It is a sympathetic picture of the social, economic, and religious life of the pioneers. Certainly a fine achievement. Interesting new books by women are: Margaret Irwin's story of Mary Stuart and Bothwell, called The Gay Galliard; Angela Thirkell's Northbridge Rectory, a_ sparkling satire; and Angie Debo's tribal story of the Creeks, titled The Road to ' Disappearance. ) USAN GROESBECK KELLY, of Provo, prominent in Church and missionary work, Margaret Manning, of Garland, for many years president of Bear River Stake Relief Society, Agnes McKay, of Ogden, and Alice McLachlin Rich, of Farmington, all devoted workers in the Church, died this spring. Page