Cragun is president of this ward Relief Society. A Sighteen Charter Members (Continued from page 307) the interest of women of the Church.
Indebted to them, we today find ourselves safely launched in many worthy fields of human endeavor. If these women could have seen the magnitude of the work today and the benefits that have come from their beginnings, how happy and compensated they would have been for all their arduous labors in pioneering the work of women in the Church. Editor's Note: At the organization meeting the names of several additional women were agreed upon as members, but they were not present.
These were: Sarah Higbee, 'Vhirza Cahoon, Keziah A. Morrison, Marinda N. Hyde, Abigail Allred, Mary Snider, Sarah Granger, and Cynthia A. Eldredge. The author of the above article states that the material for this article was obtained from the Church Historian's Office and from the Genealogical Office.
While a great deal of information is available on some of the charter members of Relief Socictv, very little is to be found on others. Annual Report 1941 AND A BRIEF REVIEW OF THE CENTURY Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer HIS report for the calendar year 1941 is the annual report most nearly coinciding with the one hundredth year of Relief Society, ending March 17, 1942. One means of gauging the changes and growth of the organization during its first century is to compare data from this latest report with those of earlier years. A review of the hundred years, divided into ten-year or twenty-five-year intervals, would be desirable, but comparable figures are not available for the entire century. A comparison of the hundredth year with the first year would show the same tremendous growth and integrity to original purpose as were indicated in the annual report for 1940, which was published in the Relief Society Magazine, June 1941, pages 426-431. The carefully recorded minutes of meetings of the first two years of the Society in Nauvoo show that 1310 women were admitted to membership, and include meticulous entries of the kind and value of contributions received for charity, together with names of donors. 'The annual report covering the first year was printed in the official publication of the Church in Nauvoo, the Times and Seasons, Vol. 4, No. 18, August 1, 1843, showing that donations to the value of $507.00 had been received, and detailing the "appropriations for the relief of the poor" in the amount of $306.48, leaving a balance of $200.52. On the last day of its second year, Page 356 the Society held the final meeting in Nauvoo, the city of its origin, but the records contain no annual report for this second year.
Nearly forty years elapsed before statistical or financial data relating to Relief Societies throughout the Church again appeared in the records, and these entries were brief and irregular until 1913, the Society's seventysecond year, for which the first of the - regular annual reports, based on the calendar year, appears in the records of the General Board. The lack of comprehensive figures during nearly three-quarters of Relief Society's century is accounted for by the period of persecution and tragedy in Nauvoo, the exodus, the ensuing struggle to survive and_ establish homes in the undeveloped West, and the fact that a Central Board which could collect and compile data relating to local Relief Societies throughout the Church was not appointed until 1880, more than a quarter of a century after organized Relief Society work had been resumed as early as the 1850's in some of the wards. The new central group of officers was confronted with problems of organization, communication, and transportation, and it operated for a third of a century before regular annual reports from the local Societies became definitely established in 1913.