[Vol29 | May 1942 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Future Membership Sorensen]

Stare | #40800080 STATES ISSION RANK Future Membership Activity Counselor Donna D. Sorensen Out of the membership-building ~ project has come impetus for greater effort in all phases of Relief Society work. A wealth of originality and ingenuity has been uncovered. New talent has been found for use in many directions in the calling of certain women to act as coordinators. These women can now be utilized in other fields of activity within the Society. The organization as a whole has been immeasurably enriched by the choice and versatile women who have been added to the fold. The end, however, has not been reached when women have been enrolled. Still greater tasks lie ahead in keeping active and interested the new members of the Society. The General Board is keenly aware that this calls for increased vision in order to plan wisely so that the needs and the interests of the majority of these 115,000 members will be met in the program of the Society. On the ward executive officers will rest the responsibility of leading out and setting the example of friendliness and love among the sisterhood. The responsibility extends even further, however, to each individual member of the Relief Society. Each member should recognize the need for friendliness and should make an effort to have every woman who has been enrolled feel a part of this organization. Deep appreciation for this organization will come to these new members when they become fully aware of the spiritual enrichment which will come to them as a result of their attendance at meetings. In times of sorrow, confusion, and distress, women yearn and seek for that which builds them spiritually, renews their faith, and strengthens their resolve to take their problems to the Lord in prayer. Not only will women be stimulated to live closer to their Heavenly Father, but the sharing of their joys and sorrows with women in this Society will be comforting to them. In truth, the garnering of these thousands of women into the Society is but the beginning. In this organization the women will be imbued with a desire to "Seek ye first the kingdom of God and His righteousness." Their homes will benefit from the inspiration which they will find in attending weekly Relief Society meetings. 'The Church itself will become stronger because of the affiliation of these thousands of women. The result will be an even greater effort to further the upbuilding of the Kingdom of God on earth that the Kingdom of Heaven may come. The gratefulness of the General Board is extended to all of you who have diligently worked. Your greatest reward will come in the enriched lives of the women whom you have influenced to belong to this Society.