Uncle Jay arose, went to his desk and there found a letter a little faded with age. He handed it to Beth and then went to his favorite window to wait her reading it. The letter read as follows: Dear John: "Six years is'a long time to wait for you to show some signs of thinking of others besides yourself. We have been so lonely and you have been so occupied with your ambitions that you did not have time to think of us at all. Little Jane and I need understanding, and you seem to need only business. The biggest -leaving. business of life is to understand those you love and help them to be useful in their different ways. But your wife and child mean so little to you that we are I want Jane to grow up as Jane, not as a mere cog in some business. Don't try to find us for we will be far away. Why not try to understand others and not spend so much of your time in your own garden? "Mary." Bett thought for twelve years he has been helping others to understand and be understood, but he had never told his story to anyone except her. He had resigned his position to spend his time and money in the great task, of helping others. He was Uncle Jay to many. Had he found understanding himself? Beth wondered. She handed back the letter. "Thanks, Uncle Jay. May I use your story in mine? I am sure I will tell it well and you shall see it published. Oh Uncle Jay! I am so happy you told me your story. And you were John! But where is Mary?" "I don't know. I waited and hunted but couldn't find her.. I was angry and stubborn, and my pride was hurt. What would the town say? After a short time the truth seemed to dawn upon me. Then I made my decision." "And oh! How successful you have been," Beth replied. "You are loved by all. Uncle Jay, I shall be so much happier with I now because of you.' ter Beth left Uncle Jay sat a long time. He seemed to be reaching out with his thoughts. "T didn't understand," he said to himself, "but now I could and would. But it is too late for me I fear." He settled deeper into his chair and gazed out through his favorite window. This window faced the ee UNCLE JAY HELPS IN UNDERSTANDING a) east and he had spent many hours there in the evenings looking and wondering and waiting. Tonight was peaceful; the folors on the mountains were shot through with bits of light from the dying sun. Rousing himself he went to bed; but twice softly called a name twice ere he dropped off to sleep. AN you really like it, Uncle Jay?" Beth was so happy this morning as they finished her story. "Did I tell it so all will understand? I so hope that as mother reads it she will see as we see. Do you think she will?" Beth was beautiful in her wistfulness. She had put so much of her own aches and desires and soul into the story she had written that Uncle Jay caught the cry of her heart which enhanced the cry of Mary's, as heard by a girl who understood. "Yes, Beth, you have told it better than I could or did. Hundreds, helping them to understand. It may reach someone who will know." The door bell rang. They both jumped. Beth flushed. She went to the door and opened it. A young man of twenty came in, caught her in his arms and kissed her. They turned to Uncle Jay, who had stood during this greeting. "Uncle Jay, here is Jack. We are going to get married to-day and we are going on our honeymoon tonight. We wanted to see you before we went, for we knew you would understand. Don't tell mother; she wouldn't understand. Daddy will need to know and we wish you would tell him. "You remember Jack, don't you? He is the boy I have played with in school. I love him so much, Uncle Tt will reach ° Jay, he has read your story. He is just the nicest boy there is in the whole world. Don't you think he will always understand?" Beth was so happy and excited that she didn't see on the face of Uncle Jay the smile of gladness; for he knew Jack would appreciate Beth. HEY walked to the door—two young people just in the commencement of life, loving each other: and an old man, kindly and mellow with life's sadness and sorrows and success. He had listened to many for nearly twelve full years. At the door Beth put both arms around his neck and kissed him and cried. Jack squeezed his hand, and they both went down the steps, happy—yet a bit sad. T° the young, a month passes quickly; to the old, time drags, especially when they are waiting. One day, at the end of a month, Uncle Jay was interrupted by the ringing of the door bell. On opening the door he saw Beth's mother. In her hand was a magazine, and there were tears in her eyes. "May I come in, Uncle Jay?" she asked. "T want to talk to you." "Come right in Mrs. Jensen," and he led her to a chair near the window. 'She sat down, waiting a minute before she began. "T didn't know you had such a story. It has opened my eyes. When I was here before, the day Beth got married, I was bitter and my pride was hurt. I didn't understand, but now I am beginning to see. Do you think I can begin to make up for the things lost? "Mr. Jensen was smiling when I told him I was coming here to talk to you. I never knew him before so well. He knew Beth was gone, and 556 I found several cards from her to him. I see why she didn't send a card to me. I didn't and wouldn't understand. Help me to get back my Beth and her husband. I want them in my heart and understanding." ie JAY was smiling his old smile. "My flowers grow best when I place them where they can develop with others.. If I interfere too much, they do not grow the best. And with children and grown-ups, we should present situations that will permit them to grow and develop their own natures under sympathetic and careful guidance. If I were you, I would get beautiful announcements iof Beth's marriage, and have a welcome-home dinner." "Oh, could I! Do you think she would love me? If she would, I—." Mrs. Jensen went home. Uncle Jay smiled happily as he snuggled into his chair for his afternoon view from his window. M®*: JENSEN came early one morning 'some two weeks after her last visit. She was happy and there was something about her that was new to Uncle Jay. She walked into the house, and _ said, "Uncle Jay, Beth and Jack will be home tomorrow, and I want you to be with us. Will you come?" "Yes, I will come to see you and the young people." Beautiful indeed was his view that afternoon and the next morning from his window. When the world is happy and we help others to understand, then flowers and color and trees and birds mean so much to our souls. Uncle Jay was happy as he walked over to the home of the Jensen's. He stepped on the porch, and then someone had him by both hands. "Oh, you old darling. Iam so glad you came to my dinner. Mother has told me all, and I have told her all. We are going to understand each other better. Daddy is all smiles, and Jack is happy—all because of you." Beth kissed the cheek of Uncle Jay, taking his arm to enter the house. HE dinner was delightful. Mother and Daddy, Beth and Jack, told stories and jokes: after dinner they sang songs. As Uncle Jay arose to go home, Beth said, "Uncle Jay, there is a recompense for every act of our lives. You will receive your happiness and rewards. I just know you will." Slowly he walked home. "Rewards," he thought. Entering his home, he found his seat near the window: the evening picture was peaceful, filled with remembrances. The door bell rang. He went to answer. "A telegram, Uncle Jay," said the boy. He signed and went back to his chair. He waited a minute, for he never received many telegrams. He opened it. He turned pale, and then the paper slipped from his hands. It read: John: I have read your story. I am also beginning to understand. Jane is well and wishes to see her daddy. May we come home to you. Then I can help you to help others understand. "Mary." Uncle Jay sat thoughtful for a few minutes. He reached' for the telephone, and a note of joy was in his voice as he said, "Long distance, please.