[Vol3 | June 1916 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Query Box Hazel Love Dunford]
Query Box. Hazel Love Dunford. Would you kindly give me some simple combination of perhaps turpentine, coal oil or something of the kind. I wish to polish my dining room chairs. I wish something that will remove the scratches the children have made. Thanking you in advance. Mrs. A. W. A., Emery, Utah. I know of nothing better than Vinero for your furniture. It can be obtained from most of the leading furniture stores. The office and factory are at 2640 So. Seventh East St., Salt Lake City. I am building a new house and would like your opinion on wall finishing for the kitchen. Mrs. C. O., Salt Lake City. Be sure that your ceilings are not made too high. Eight feet six inches is high enough. Paint walls white or cream, giving four coats. Finish with enamel paint. This is rather expensive in the beginning, but as the years pass one soon realises the economy of it, for the walls can be washed and cleaned so easily and never need re-painting. I have four children between the ages of twelve and three. How can I best get and keep their confidence. Mrs. E. G. W., Sugar City, Idaho. From the very infancy a mother must interest herself in the child's affairs. She must be a real chum to every one of her children. I know one mother who has a knack of making each one of her children (and she has five) feel that he is her special favourite. This, I believe, is one great secret in keeping their confidence. DISCOVERIES Mail Box.?The postoffice authorities sent word that we could aid them by placing a mail-box on our porch. I very much disliked the thought of the customary iron box against our bungalow wall. Finally my husband removed the top of one of the pedestals at the foot of the porch steps, put it back on with a hinge, inserted a wooden box in the pedestal and we now have an out-of-sight and very convenient mail box. He has since hinged the top of the other pedestal and in it the children place their rubbers or out-of-doors toys.?Mrs. N. F. M., Ore. Economical Dental Floss.?One spool of No. 60 linen DOES IT PAY. 351 thread, one piece pure beeswax rub wax on thread and use as; dental floss. Good Housekeeping Magazine. Home Made Cork Cleaner.?When cleaning steel knives use a cork instead of a cloth to apply the scouring powder. It cleans them quickly and thoroughly. L. D. W., Logan.
