[Vol52 | June 1965 | Page 422 | General Feature | Editorial: The 135th Annual General | Church Conference]
EDITORIAL The 135th Annua @ The Annual General Conference of the Church was held in the Tabernacle, Salt Lake City, Utah, April 4, 5, and 6, 1965, comPresident McKay. The opening address of President McKay, read by his son Robert R. McKay, emphasized the safeguards against the delinquency of youth which should be of paramount importance in the homes of Latter-day Saints and elsewhere in the world: eneral Conference President Hugh B. Brown declared that the Church established by Christ upon the earth was the forerunner and prototype of the restoration: Man's period of earth life is but one stage in the eternal progressive journey of the soul. Birth and death do not mark the beginning nor the end of individual existence. The spirits of all men lived as intelligent beings enjoying the right of choice and free agency before they were born in the flesh. Earth life is for the development and training of the sons of men under the direction and supervision of the Divine Father through his Son, Jesus the Christ. Here we have an opportunity to meet opposition, to test our strength, to combat and overcome evil and thereby prepare for future development throughout the eternities. President N. Eldon Tanner emphasized the encouraging and uplifting blessings which so abundantly inspire the families which faithfully observe the Home Evening: The Family Home Evening... Gives the parents an opportunity to get better acquainted with their children, to know what they are thinking, what they believe, and what is right. They are taught that we are the children of God, and that as His children we have that spark of divinity in us which makes it possible for us to reach immortal heights by living according to the teachings of the gospel. Families throughout the Church are being taught these things, and they are taught to be honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and to do good to all men. They are also taught that if there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, to seek after these things.... The closing message of President McKay was marked by deep sincerity and spiritual appeal to the saints throughout the world: - The whole purpose of the organization of this great Church, so complete, so perfect, is to bless the individual.... God bless you, my dear fellow workers, you General Authorities, stake presidencies, bishoprics, every officer and teacher throughout the land—every member! awless English, French, and German, without accent. She Plays Several Musical instruments, Vesta Pp. Crawford, Associate Editor Of The Relief Society Magazine, re- — Society, the Norma Hafen award for 4 collection of her Poems, Short Grass Woman.