[Vol52 | June 1965 | Page 406 | Special Feature | The University of the Home Harvey | L. Taylor]
Dr. Harvey L. Taylor Former Acting Chancellor, Unified Church School System Administrator of Church Schools THE ambition of most Latterday Saint parents is to have their children graduate from college. No sacrifice seems too great to insure the attainment of this goal. In working and planning toward this end, we often overlook the most important training center in the lives of young people—the home; or, at best, it is not recognized for its full potential as a source of learning opportunities. It is, therefore, well to remember that regardless of how magnificent and impressive our universities may be as to buildings, laboratories, auditoriums, stadiums, libraries, curriculums, and faculties, none equals the power and the influence to change the lives of men and women, both young and old, as does the University of the Home. Here is an institution into which one hundred per cent of the people matriculate, and from which one hundred per cent graduate with one of many kinds of degrees—while in all other universities less than fifty per cent of the people matriculate, and only ten per cent of those who do, graduate. Thus I do not hesitate to say that of all universities none has the training potential of the University of the Home. At best, other universities can only — supplement, support, and _ strengthen' the Home University, because here learning begins. Here habit patterns are formed which affect all learning procedures and_ processes. Here both the physical and spiritual sides of each member of the family are recognized, and thus training procedures are es- tablished which are intended to develop both sides according to the needs, interest, capacity, and personality of each individual. Here all the basic urges common to every living soul can be recognized and brought into a working harmony. Here is the beginning of discipline designed to establish concepts of right and wrong, concepts of justice and _ honor, concepts of industry, service, and orderly conduct. The curriculum or course of study for the University of the Home must be chosen with great care and understanding. It must be related to the growth process of each individual. It must take into consideration individual differences—mental, physical, emotional, social, and spiritual. It must always challenge the best efforts of each member of the class, but should never belittle, frustrate, or discourage the learners. It should be built on the "you can" concept, on the "do-your-best'"' concept, on the "family togetherness" concept. Now let us talk about the courses which should be taught in the University of the Home. I will make no attempt to list them in order of importance, mainly because each family will have its own concepts and ideas as to which is most important. The ones I will discuss, however, are basic courses and should be taken by all. Many special courses have merit and should be added to the basic courses so as best to serve the needs of each individual family. First, I name "Obedience and Respect for Law." This course THE UNIVERSITY OF THE HOME is a must if there are to be peace, order, and harmony in the home organization. Instruction should start early. It should be consistent and reasonable, but demanding, and_ should apply equally to all. Such a course should include training in obedience to the laws, rules, and regulations of the family organization, such as care of the home, care of personal possessions, respect for each other's rights, doing one's share, being on time for meals, use of good language when' speaking to one another, proper use of the family car, desirable hours to be home, correct use of television and radio, good study, and quiet hours. This course should also include training in respect and obedience for the laws of the school, the playground, the city, the state, and the nation. Members of the family class should be taught that through obedience to law come order and unity in the home and in all the world;. That it is the guardian of all our rights and privileges; that it protects against injustice; that it keeps the strong from destroying the weak; that without law there could be no harmony in life, no government, no_ happiness, and no peace. All members of the family should have some part in establishing the rules and regulations that will govern the home. Then all should be expected to abide by these decisions. "Happy are the families," said Leonard Bacon, "where the government of parents is the reign of affection, and the obedience of children the submission of love." Next, I suggest '"'Discipline and 


 Self-Control," with strong emphasis. All should be trained to understand that the undisciplined are handicapped in all their contacts and associations with others. George H. Brimhall once said: Oh, just to know that I am free And can command this complex me; To say "advance" and be obeyed, To meet an issue undismayed. Everyone needs the discipline that comes from having and meeting assignments and _ in sticking under pressure, in doing things not especially liked, such as having to "reach" for something, being involved with others in a good cause, working toward specific goals, staying with a task until it is not only done, but well done, making mistakes and then starting over again, and meeting deadlines. The curriculum should include training in "Health and Clean Living." This course will pay big dividends. It should include knowledge and care of the body, its complex parts and functions. Parents are best qualified to teach this course. It should include consideration of proper eating habits; training in the Word of Wisdom, obtaining adequate rest and sleep, in living the moral law, and in realizing the danger of pornographic pictures, vulgar and obscene stories and _literature. THE curriculum also should include "Conduct and Manners." Everyone should know what is considered proper conduct under all conditions and circumstances. I have noticed a serious lack of training in manners, courtesy, and the social graces among 408 young and old alike. This is a responsibility of the Home University. Lessons should begin very early. Training should be consistent. There should be no lapse at any age level. If this kind of training could develop as a way of life, it would be natural and pleasing to all and would open many doors to acceptance often closed to those without such preparation. I strongly urge that emphasis be put on "Respect and Appreciation for the Work of Other Men's Hands and Brains." It is common knowledge that we have wanton desecration of parks, public buildings, library books, and works of art. Only recently, three boys (ages ten, eleven, and twelve) set fire to a school building simply because they did not like their teachers. 'Shortly after, several young men in their early teens completely destroyed a girls' camp, using the furniture for firewood, ripping open mattresses, and smashing the camp dishes. When caught and asked to account for their vandalism, they replied, 'We did it just for kicks." In this course, members of the family should be taught to appreciate the creation of all the works of man. They should be helped to understand what these many creations mean to us in our daily lives and that it is the responsibility of each generation to preserve these creations and to pass them on to others as received. "Service and Sharing One's Talents" is much needed. Teach the joy of doing for others without pay or hope of reward. Growth and happiness come by sharing that which we have and are. It was Christ's teachings that ''whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant"; and later he said, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren ye have done it unto me." The Home University should offer "Honor and the Value of a Good Name." Every member of the family class should be taught that only men and women of speak the truth, will accept no bribes, will not cheat or steal, will protect the weak and aged, and will not covet or take undue advantage. Of no more importance is any course in the Home University than "Work, Planned Saving, and Wise Spending." Every member of the class should be taught that hard work built America, that saving and wise spending not only prevent waste but bring security. The inherent danger of installment buying and the purchase of things not needed, should be carefully discussed with all members of the family. Economic security is one of the most important elements of successful life. Unless the child has adequate training in his economic responsibilities while he is still young, it is unlikely that he will attain financial independence essential to his total happiness. Ir is vital that the Home University teach "Love" —love of one's fellow men regardless of race, sect, or creed. Latter-day Saints need special training m acceptance of the many new conyerts coming into the Church THE UNIVERSITY OF THE HOME from foreign countries throughout the world. These people, though some of them are not of our color or race, are our brothers and sisters in the Priesthood and the gospel. They are God's children just as are we. They need our love, understanding, and fellowship. This view does not mean that I would recommend intermarriage, but it does mean full acceptance of them as memand all should also be taught love of ideals and integrity. It is most important that each be taught to love our country, which we can do only if we understand what it has taken to give us our freedom and what it will cost us to keep it. Also be sure to teach "Courtship and Preparation for Marriage." Young people should understand the purpose of courtship in all its various stages, also the purposes and responsibilities of marriage and the obligations of parenthood. In this the Home University must assume the major responsibility for teaching the reasons for marriage in the temple, the promises made, the blessings available to those who are faithful in this ordinance. Learning about temple ordinances and temple marriage should become part of the regular growing-up training of children. They should visit temple grounds, be baptized in the temple for the dead, be given opportunity to ask questions and to receive honest answers. A common practice ls just to assume that our young people will marry in the temple. 


 This is a false assumption. They must be taught, encouraged, and shown by parental example that this sacred ordinance is the way of life for them. Instruction in the University of the Home must include ''Religion and Opportunity for Family Worship." Every child should be taught to pray at his mother's knee. Worship can be taught through family prayers in which all participate, through permitting each child frequent opportunity to give the blessing on the food, through the reading of sacred scriptures alone and in groups, through singing religious songs, through discussion of Church doctrines, through family attendance at religious services, and through administration in times of sickness. No university is complete without a good library. This is especially true of the University of the Home. In its library there should be something of interest for all, beginning with pictures for little children. In order to satisfy all learning needs, books, magazines, maps, charts, etc. Should be added as the children grow up. There should be provided reading nooks and corners with appropriate chairs and lights. Quiet should be maintained so as to encourage reading and learning without interruption. Francis Bacon is reported to have said, "If I might control the literature of the household, I would guarantee the well-being of the church and the state." In the Home University we also need provision for student 'activities. This provision should include regular 'Family Home Evenings," stories for small children, trips with the family, opportunities for kitchen fun, for hobbies, for making gardens, for camping, for picnics and parties, for playing games, for listening to music, for pets, and for all kinds of activities that are essential to growth and that provide opportunity to build the family togetherness." And last, but certainly not least, we need an administration and a faculty. The father should be the president and the mother vice-president of the Home University. They, together with all the children, should comprise the faculty. Each would be a teacher in his own right. Each should set an example of what he would have the others become. The great University of the Home is unlike any other institution in all the world, and it is far more important. There is none which bears such great responsibility, none which has_ such opportunity, none where satisfactions can be greater. "Family togetherness" is the challenge of our time. The big question is: Can we, will we meet this challenge?
