[Vol52 | June 1965 | Page 446 | Home | Boxes, Beautiful Boxes | Peggy Tangren]
1964 Boxes, Beautitu Boxes Peggy Tangren @ Some are on the dressing table containing bobby pins or jewelry. Others are in the sewing room filled with pins and buttons. Boxes are needed on the writing desk for stamps, clips, and receipts. Is there a kitchen that doesn't have a box filled with favorite recipes? Handkerchiefs, hose, and scarves are kept more neatly in boxes. A beautiful box for nuts or candy dresses up a living room table. A child who paints and trims his own tithing box has a twofold incentive. A gift presented in a personally decorated box becomes a double gift. Why shouldn't we make the boxes we use pleasing to the eye and conversation pieces? Procedure Clean boxes and remove rough spots, if possible. Using a very soft brush, apply to the box top, only, as many coats of enamel as are needed to cover all blemishes and give the cardboard a heavy satin-appearing finish. The boxes illustrated here each had nine coats. Let each coat of enamel become thoroughly dry before applying the next layer. Do not give the inside of the box or the bottom part of the box more than two coats. Heavier coats of enamel will thicken the cardboard preventing the top, or lid, from fitting. Cement all designs to the boxtops with white glue. Colored designs, such as flowers, butterflies, and the velvet flowers should be coated with clear lacquer after the glue dries. This forms a protection against soil and cleaning. If you have only a small area to coat, clear fingernail polish works just as well and is more economical than laquer for use on small objects. Basic Materials Needed well-made cardboard boxes (in useful shapes and sizes) quick drying enamel white glue Decorative Materials flowers, birds, butterflies, etc., cut from used greeting cards or magazines The following may be obtained from craft stores: gold, silver, or bronze medallions laces, edgings letters small velvet flowers pearl beads TRANSPARENCIES BY L PAUL ROBERTS Food With Foreign tastes Florian H. Thayn @ Why do we prepare the same menus over and over? Is it because our families prefer the familiar flavors? Perhaps the food is simple and the well-established habits of preparation do not require exactness; only a flexible "'about this much, and not so much of that!" To break out of the culinary rut, a group of us planned a buffet supper with an international flavor. It proved to be not only a delectable and varied treat, but real entertainment—for every dish became a conversational piece. Some of the flavor combinations were new, some familiar, but all were pronounced '"husband-approved" and 'second-helping good." The recipes are mostly from our sisters who have lived in many parts of the world, but nearly all of the ingredients are available the year around. Best of all, most of them can be prepared a day ahead. The flair with which any of these dishes is served makes them a delightful company treat, or a hearty family meal.