[Vol52 | June 1965 | Page 404 | Special Feature | Birthday Congratulations to Emma Ray | Riggs McKay]
Birthday Congratulations to Emma Ray Riggs McKay June 23, 1965 ™ In this year of 1965, in the early summer, when the valleys of her homeland are green with meadows and adorned with a multitude of flowers, Emma Ray Riggs McKay, wife of President David O. McKay, observes her eighty-eighth birthday. The General Board of Relief Society and the members in all the stakes and missions of the Church send greetings to her on this occasion through the pages of The Relief Society Magazine. Sincerely spoken are words of praise and gratitude for her influence and her example—for the pattern of her devotion and for the adornment that she has given to the high callings of womanhood. Beautiful words of great significance have characterized her life—daughter, sweetheart, wife, mother, companion, Relief Society executive and teacher, mission mother, beloved friend and counselor. To all of these aspects of a woman's life, she has added luster and enduring radiance. For these qualities, and for her dear smiling face and her bright courage, the women of the Church express a humble gratitude and the hope that their own lives may become more useful, more dedicated, and more joyfully fulfilled by a contemplation and a remembering of the attitudes and the accomplishments of Sister McKay. In this year, and in the years to follow, when the family and The Family Home Evening are receiving a renewed and greatly implemented emphasis, it is pleasing to the women of the Church to consider some of the directive patterns which have characterized Sister McKay as a mother and a homemaker. Her children feel that they have been blessed by the faithfulness, the composure, the low voice, the orderly ways, the loving patience, the tender solicitude their mother has given them. A close friend of the family, in expressing her appreciation of Sister McKay, said: 'In her quiet, friendly, and efficient way, this remarkable woman has practiced benevolence, charity, love, kindness, and consideration, and she has fostered the highest ideals among women." Beloved companion of President McKay since January 2, 1901, she has been the devoted and lovely "queen" of his home, and has shared his travels throughout the world. For birthdays, Mother's Days, on Christmases, and other special occasions, President McKay has composed eloquent and fittings tributes for Sister McKay. On their thirty-third wedding anniversary, he wrote: "Her education has enabled her to be a true helpmate; her congeniality and interest in my work, a pleasing companion; her charm and unselfishness, a lifelong sweetheart; her unbounded patience and intelligent insight into childhood, a most devoted mother." May the love and admiration which the women of the Church have for Emma Ray Riggs McKay be near her in the season of her birthday, and thereafter, and may the many blessings which she so richly deserves attend her and be with her family and with all her loved ones.
