[Vol52 | June 1965 | Page 424 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

Crawford, Associate Editor Of The Relief Society Magazine, re- — Society, the Norma Hafen award for 4 collection of her Poems, Short Grass Woman. The Poems will be Published by the Society 4S part of the 424 the only woman in the Western World to receive such Political eminence. Quer, by Eleanor Clark. Chapter 2 Synopsis: Joan Morgan, a nurse, has left her position at Elmdale Hospital because of an emotional involvement and grief over the death of a young patient. She obtains employment as Hospital and meets the administrator mitory is a young nurse Kathy Kirk. ® As Joan's alarm sounded, she sat up, her head already full of the words she had chosen to use in reprimanding Kathy. But the words would have to wait. Kathy was gone. Her bed was made smooth and tidy, and there was no sign of the tired young nurse of the night before. Joan tried to focus all her thoughts. Surely she hadn't slept that soundly. She hadn't heard a sound, hadn't been conscious of a superintendent of nurses at Hillcrest, Dr. Niles. Her roommate in the dormovement. How had Kathy managed to slip out so quietly? She would ask her at the earliest opportunity, along with some other questions that had bothered her, such as why Kathy had been able to get by with so much, with such a stern administrator as Doctor Niles., When Joan entered the cafeteria, she felt the bristle of the atmosphere.

Conversations hung unfinished and, although there 


 were only a few nurses and doctors in the room, Joan knew that she had been the subject of the discussion. She had expected to be talked about. It was only natural that they would all discuss different from what the former superintendent had_ been. She took a tray and walked toward the serving counter without lookKathy mixture of anger and relief. She turned toward the corner table and saw that Kathy was already moving her dishes over to make room for her. "Come and meet Doctor Desmond," Kathy invited. The invitation annoyed Joan. Who did Kathy think she was.--: what right did she? But Joan found herself seated at the table telling Kathy she had already met the doctor. "Yes, weve met," Doctor Desmond said, and though he was talking to Kathy, he was looking at Joan. "You are an early riser," Joan said to Kathy, ignoring his remark, and turning away from chickens." "J didn't hear your alarm." "Kathy doesn't need an alarm _,. She has an automatic built-in arrangement that tells her she must be here by five if she wants to have breakfast with me." Kathy reddened, but Doctor Desmond pretended not to notice. He just gathered up his dishes, placed them on his tray, and slid his chair back. "I']I be in the chart room in about a halfhour, Miss Morgan. There are 426 ient." He looked directly at Joan and his eyes were teasing again. Kathy's eyes were not. "He makes me so mad. Sometimes he is so serious and so sincere, and then in the very next breath...-" "Do you like him?" "More than I should, I guess. Every nurse in the hospital does, though." "Does he take you out?" "Are you kidding? He doesn't take anyone out. He's so tied to the hospital. He seldom leaves the place." "Kathy, about last night. -. A "Oh, my goodness. - - - Miss Jackson goes off in five minutes. _., Take my tray over will you? Thanks," and she was gone. JOAN was angered, she was amused. This girl is really going to be a handful, she thought. She was almost through with her toast and juice when David came towards her with his tray. He paused and then went past her to the next her, but she didn't. She only said hello in response to his greeting, and then, toast unfinished, she got up and left. Joan liked early mornings in the hospital best. Everything seemed to have a new beginning, even life itself, for it seemed to her that the suffering which continued all night subsided a little with the new day, and Joan felt a newness to her life, too, today; as she went from room to room. She introduced herself to each patient and mentally went over the charts she had studied very carefully. She felt she must know each person, for it was her belief that each illness went beyond the _ doctor's_ diagnosis, beyond the medicine, and the treatments. And yet, how could she keep herself from being too involved, if she knew too much about them? She didn't have an answer to that. Joan had purposely evaded going to room 212 as long as she could. When she could postpone it no longer, she stepped inside and walked over to the window. She was about to pull the shade when a young voice stopped her. "Leave it shut." "Why, Tom? Will leaving the room dark help anything?" "Will opening it help?' Tom's voice was deep with the discouragement and the hopelessness that Joan was used to. She pulled the string, letting the early morning sun leap into the room. When Tom turned his face to the wall she walked over to his bed. "Tom, I'm Miss' Morgan, the new superintendent. Turn around here and let's get acquainted. Come on, let's take a look at you." "Go away. There have been too many people looking at me." "Well, if we're going to make you well, we have to." "Going to make me well... That's real funny." "You can get well.'"' How very many times had she said those same words before, she wondered.