[Vol30 | April 1943 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: He Dee]

He Lives! 'The Darkness Proclaims the Glory of Light" Genet Bingham Dee N these dark days, days of terror | and anguish, should we not ask as did the Lamanites of old on one occasion, "What shall we do that this cloud of darkness may be removed from overshadowing us?"
Will we not find the answer in the reply of a wise man among them: "You must repent even until ye shall have faith in Christ; and when ye shall do this, the cloud of darkness shall be removed from overshadowing you."
There is no book in all the world, it seems to me, that offers such solace for this our time, that teaches so eloquently the power and comfort of prayer, that teaches so definitely the love of God for all His children, that pleads so earnestly with those who stray to return to faith in Christ, as does the Book of Mormon. Yes, repentance is made almost joyful in this sacred book. In fact, this history of ancient Americans is largely a story of contrasts: pictures of the glory and joy of light, and the darkness and sorrow of sin. Two of the greatest stories of such vivid contrast are the accounts of the impenetrable darkness which proclaimed Christ's crucifixion at Jerusalem, and the sublime narrative of His visit to the Nephites.
Both stories are simple, brief, dramatic. The Witness of the Elements in Chaos THIRTY-THREE years had passed away since a new star of brilliance and glory and other "great lights and many signs and wonders in the heavens" proclaimed the birth of the Christ in Bethlehem. And now the elements in chaos proclaimed that man had slain Him, "Christ, the Son of God, the Father of Heaven and of earth, the.
Creator of all things from the beginning." The signs of His death had been predicted by Samuel the Lamanite Prophet. But sin was rampant in the land. The prophets were scorned, many of them slain. And, lo, suddenly, "in the thirty and fourth year, in the first month, on the fourth day of the month," into their confusion and doubt the signs came, all of them as the prophets had foretold, the signs of the death of the Savior of the world in faraway Jerusalem. A storm broke, "such an one as never had been known in all the land." Thunderings, lightnings, tempests! The very earth shook and trembled.
Rocks were "rent in twain" both above and beneath the earth.
Mountains were "laid low like unto valleys."
Valleys became mountains. The great city of Zarahemla and many other great and notable cities were burned. The City of Moroni sank into the depths of the sea; "the earth was carried up upon the city of Moronihah that in the place of the city there became a great mountain." 5
There was devastation unfathomable throughout the land, "great and Page 245 246 terrible destruction." The face of the whole land was changed because of the tempest and the whirlwinds and the thunderings and the lightnings and the exceeding great quaking of the whole earth.
Many cities were levelled by earthquake, "the inhabitants thereof were slain and the places were left desolate...
Some were carried away in the whirlwind; and whither they went no man knoweth...." Finally "the thunderings, and the lightnings and the storm, and the tempest, and the quakings of the earth did ceasefor behold... All these great and terrible things were done in about the space of three hours." It was said by some that the time was greater.
Small wonder that the time seemed greater. A few seconds of such terrifying chaos might well seem like an eternity to those who lived through it. It is difficult even to imagine the tumult and the noise. Not only were the buildings, high towers, and walls of the cities being crashed to the ground by the angry elements; but the earth itself was creaking and trembling in its very foundations.
What an implacable foe those elements became, as God vented the wrath of His judgment upon those disobedient ones, according to the decrees which He had made! The Testimony of Utter Darkness ERHAPS only once in the history of the world has there been such complete and impenetrable darkness as enveloped the American Continent following the storm's devastation. 'That time would be in the beginning when "darkness was upon the face of the deep" before God
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAPRIL 1943 said, Let there be light," before He "placed the lights in the firmament of the -heaven to give light upon the earth." "...
Then behold, there was darkness upon the face of the land....
There was thick darkness upon all the face of the land, insomuch that the inhabitants thereof who had not fallen could feel the vapor of darkness; And there could be no light, because of the darkness, neither candles, neither torches; neither could there be fire kindled with their fine and exceedingly dry wood, so that there could not be any light at all. "And there was not any light seen, - neither fire, nor glimmer, neither the sun, nor the moon, nor the stars, for so great were the mists of darkness which were upon the face of the land. And it... Did last for the space of THREE DAYS that there was no light seen; and there was great mourning and howling and weeping among all the people continually; yea, great were the groanings of the people, because of the darkness and the great destruction which had come upon them."
Jerusalem was enveloped in darkness for but three hours at the time of the crucifixion. Why three days of darkness upon this continerit? Was it not a special blessing, a way of compelling the Nephites to repent? And they did repent. "And in one place they were heard to cry, saying: O that we had repented before this great and terrible day." "And in another place they were heard to cry and mourn, saying: O that we had repented before this great and terrible day, and had not killed and stoned the prophets, and cast them out; then would our mothers HE LIVES! And our fair daughters and our children have been spared, and not have been buried up in that great city, Moronihah!" The Warning Voice 6 AND it came to pass that there ' was a voice heard among all the inhabitants of the earth, upon all the face of this land, crying: Wo, wo, wo unto this people; Wo unto the inhabitants of the whole earth except they shall repent; for the devil laugheth, and his angels rejoice, because of the slain of the fair sons and daughters of my people; and it is because of their iniquity and abominations that they are fallen!"