[Vol30 | April 1943 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: The Felt Recreation Felt]
Regent Street, rent free, if the city would pay for the light and heat. In addition to this, these men provided $100.00 for the buying of necessities to fix up the building. With this money and some provided by the Salt Lake City Recreation Department, W. P. A. Labor cleaned, catcimined, and painted the interior of the building. ON March 9, 1939 the Center was opened and officially christened the Felt Recreation Center.. A few days previous to this time, when the invitations were being sent out to the parents and children, Bob asked if he might take one to Judge Rulon Clark of the Juvenile Court, Mr. Clegg, and others. (Bob was a ward ot the Juvenile Court.) As a result of these invitations the Judge and four of the men who worked in that department came. On the opening night at 7:30 crowds filled the hall. Miss Jessie Schofield was master of ceremonies. A very interesting and varied program was presented. Here were about 200 who attended on that opening night. Representatives from the City, the Kiwanis Club, the W. P. A., the Women's Clubs, Church groups and Mr. Wallace Bennett as landlord of the building, were present. Refreshments were served through the courtesy of the Kiwanis Club. During the next year the crowds RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE1943 increased. The age of the children attending went gradually upward. The activities became many and varied to interest those of all ages. There was also a play school for the little children under school age. After school, activities were provided for children from six to eighteen. A handcraft department was added for the benefit and interest of the mothers. ONE year later, March 1940, it became necessary for the Center to move a second time. There were far too many children attending regularly to accommodate them adequately. Through the courtesy of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints we moved into the building at 60
South 2nd East. This was provided to use rent free, with the City paying the light, heat, and janitorial service. Gymnasium facilities were provided in addition to all of the activities that had been a regular part of the program previously. A dance was held for the teen-age boys and gitls each Friday evening. Often as many as two hundred and fifty young people between the ages of fourteen and eighteen attended. There was no admission charge. Good behavior was the only requirement. While at this location our enrollment reached the seven hundredth mark. In May 1941, it was necessary for us to move again. The Government needed more room for regional offices and wanted our quarters in addition to those they were occupying next door to us. We all felt that we must now find permanent quarters. The project had grown to the point where we felt that it was worthy of consideration by the City.
THE FELT RECREATION CENTER
Consequently the efforts of the City Recreation Department, the Kiwanis Club, and the Felt Advisory Council were pooled to accomplish this. After much work on the part of this group, the City Commission voted to purchase the old Masonic Temple located on the corner of First South and Second East in Salt Lake City. With it came property 165 feet by 165 feet, thus providing space for an outdoor playground, a luxury which had not been ours up to this time. We were just beginning to get settled in this new home of ours when World War II broke out. Our boys in the service had to be taken care of, and quarters for the U. S. O. Became a vital necessity. Because our building was so large and so wellfitted for the program needed for our soldier boys, we were asked once more to step aside and to find other quarters for the duration of the war. This we did after being assured by the City Commission that this building and property would be returned to the City Recreation Department for the use and benefit of these downtown children after the war was over. An order to this effect appears on the City's books in the Recorder's Office. T present, the Felt Recreation Center is located at 151
South State Street in Salt Lake City.
This place has been leased for the Center by the City Commission for its use during the war, until such a time as it may return to the building originally purchased for it. Due to the size of the building, the program is a curtailed one.
Only children of 267 school age can be accommodated. In these war times we are glad to have such a beautiful and comfortable place, even though it is too small for our needs.
Another thing for which we are very glad is the quality of leadership provided here for the boys and girls by the Salt Lake City Corporation.
Under their leadership, the boys and girls enrolled at the Center have set up self-governing organizations.
They have their own officers and councils. 'They set up their own standards of behavior and plan their own activities.
Each month they pay dues of 5c each. For those who may not have the money, provision is made whereby they may perform a service in lieu of it.
Limited gymnasium facilities are provided, also table tennis, quiet games, handcraft, woodwork, books and magazines for reading, art instruction, sewing, vocal and instrumental music opportunities, dancing, golf instruction, archery, clay modeling, and assistance with the hobbies of those who attend. All in all it is a busy and an interesting place.
Those who come are made most welcome. As to whether or not the Center has accomplished the good for which it was organized, we can only say that according to Judge Rulon Clark of the Juvenile Court, this Center has done more to assist his department in the overcoming and prevention of crime than any other single endeavor that has come to his notice. Our goal is far from reached, but we be.
