[Vol30 | April 1943 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: The Gardeners Best and Moyle]
The Gardener's Best and Oldest Friend Hazel D. Moyle Garden Editor, The Deseret News WHEN Adam, the world's first gardener, was driven out of that first perfect garden, he was told that henceforth the earth should bring forth thorns and thistles, and that his part forever after should be to till the soil. Few modern gardeners connect those ancient and beautiful words with their own 1943
Victory Gardens. Surely, exclaims the amateur, we have now progressed, with all our modern tools and gadgets, our balanced fertilizers and high-class varieties, beyond such primitive methods of making plants grow! Yet that ancient command to till the soil is as important today as it was in the days of Adam, and especially is it important in raising a Victory Garden of vegetables. Call it tilling, or cultivating, or stirring, or just plain hoeing... Here is the open sesame and the royal road to achieving a successful and abundant garden. How strange that it usually requires experience plus a few failures to teach the amateur garden-maker that the hoe (or its twin-tool, the three-pronged cultivator), is truly the gardener's best friend. "The more we hoe, the more we grow," runs an old adage quoted for years and years by both farmers and gardeners, yet the beginner is inclined to pin his faith on some highpower nostrum or pill, some magical vitamin wand, claimed to make the garden rows prosper and thrive with little or no effort on the gardener's part. Cultivation of the soil is vitally important if we wish to realize all those pleasant expectations of bumper crops, of luscious tomatoes that rival those pictured on the first page of the catalogues, of tender, sweet peas and carrots, beets, and other succulent eatables. We must learn to use this old and trusty weapon with a will and with persistence if we would have a garden of which we can be proud. We must cultivate early and late, often, and then repeat the process, in fact, we cannot overdo this ageold practice of stirring and tilling the soil about our plants if we wish them to prosper and flourish. Few indeed are the plants that do not welcome and appreciate good cultivation. The queen of all flowers, the rose, must have it in order to produce her best. The trees show their appreciation of an occasional good cultivation by bearing better foliage or fruit. Even the tiniest seedling will hold up its head, and take heart, and set to work to grow up, if it is encouraged by having the surrounding soil stirred gently to let in air and to stimulate its growth. MAKE plans to cultivate your vegetables as soon as the seeds pop up and can be seen in a row. Use a small hoe, often called a Warren Page 255 256
