[Vol30 | April 1943 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: An Adequate Daily Diet Ward]

An Adequate Daily Diet and Wartime Menus Edna K. Ward The importance of food and its proper preparation is brought to the attention of every homemaker by the exigencies of total war which have been forced upon us. We want to "make America strong," but a nation is made strong only as its people are strong and healthy. Each mother and homemaker is largely responsible for the health of her family; she must plan healthful meals, she must buy the food which is to constitute those meals, and now when help is scarce, she has the added responsibility of preparing that food to save important food values. To plan and prepare "wartime menus" is a challenge to every homemaker. It is her contribution to the war effort, and it is an important contribution. Well-planned, wellcooked meals, served in pleasant surroundings, with thankfulness in our hearts, will build strong families and a strong nation. Nutritionists have set up daily food needs, and an adequate daily diet should include the food listed in the opposite chart. In planning meals, particular attention should be given to what are termed protective foods, protective because they contain elements known to be essential to good health. These are: 1fruits 2vegetables Page 286 3 eggs 4meat swhole grains 6milk and milk products To include these important foods into the three meals each and every day"is the homemaker's responsibility, and now with wartime restrictions and increasing shortages, the difficulties are increased. 'The following menus and recipes are suggested in the hope that they may be helpful in meeting this problem. BREAKFAST This is an important meal because it can include several of the protective foods. A suggestive pattern may be: Orange Juice Oatmeal with Milk Soft Cooked Egg Toast Jam Milk The varieties and amounts will vary with the ages and activities of each member of the family. Breakfast fruits may be: Oranges Grapefruit Strawberries (in season ) Prunes (raw or cooked) Apples (raw, baked, or sauce) Fruit juices: Orange Grapefruit Lemon Tomato GR MORE GLASSES DAILY.. FOR ADULTS wo 4 OR MORE GLASSES DAILY.. FOR CHILDREN To drink and tombined with t other faods oe i "2 OR MORE SERVINGS DAILY BESIDES POTATO CA <3} row) green ond yellow affen "OR MORE SERVINGS DAILY Ve citrus Fruit or tomato | A WEEK; 1 DAILY PREFERRED CHEESE, FISH, O8 LEGUMES OR MORE SERVINGS DAILY ; MOST OF IT WHOLE GRAIN OR "ENRICHED" " Se a
MORE TABLESPOONS DAILY CATISEY
So MP ETE Courtesy National Dairy Council Many variations in choice and LUNCH preparation of fruits and juices, in and in preparation of eggs can make eal is something like this: breakfast interesting. It should be d ter where often onlya pe Gee on mee nue Counter w: y Fruit Gelatin Salad meagre breakfast is eaten in a hurry. Milk AN ADEQUATE DAILY DIET choice and preparation of cereals, eaten at home rather than at the cor- 287 A good pattern for the midday vegetanle SOUP Sandwich 288 It usually consists of a light protein dish, a salad or simple. Dessert, milk, bread and butter. For protein requirements a choice of: Split Pea or Bean Soup Vegetable Beef Soup Ham and Macaroni Salad Cheese Sauce on Vegetables or 'Toast Cheese and Meat Sandwiches Fish, Chicken, or Meat Salads Suggestive salads: Mixed fresh or canned Fruit. Prunes stuffed with Cheese, Carrots, Nuts Grapefruit, Orange Sections Date, Apple, Lettuce Apple, Celery, Nut Pear, Cheese Mixed Vegetables Cranberry, Celery, Nut Cabbage Grated Carrot, Raisin Molded raw Vegetables Tomato, sliced Tomatoes, stuffed Radish, Onion, hard-cooked Eggs Asparagus Desserts for lunch if required: Office workers should eat only light lunches. Fruitsfresh, dried, or canned Fruit Cobblers Fruit Pies Puddings Baked Custards Bread Puddings Fruit Whips, dried or fresh Fruit Gelatines, plain, fruited, or whipped Ice Cream Steamed Fruit Puddings Rice Pudding Cookies Oatmeal Date Bars Peanut Butter Molasses Raisin Lunch Boxes Lunch boxes, whether for an adult or a child, need to contain about
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAPRIL 1943 one-third of his daily rations. If the midday meal is his main one, then the lunch box should contain more than a third of the food needed for the whole day. If the evening meal is the most ample and breakfast has contributed its share, then the contents of the lunch box may supply less than a third of the food needed. Laon box meals should include: Sandwiches (containing meat, fish, egg, cheese, or vegetable) or a Salad (containing meat, fish, eggs, cheese, with bread and butter) Fruit (may be Tomato) Cake or Cookies Hot Soup, Beverage, or Milk Suggestive sandwich fillings: Several fillings can be made and stored in covered containers in the refrigerator. 'This gives variety for a week's supply and helps in facilitating sandwich preparation. Meat Salad Filling 4 pound bologna or minced ham (put through fine knife of food choper 3
Pera-cooked eggs (chopped) \% cup finely cut sweet pickle 4 tablespoons salad dressing or mayonnalse 4 tablespoons fresh or canned milk \ tablespoon salt Mix thoroughly and chill. Fish Salad Filling cups cooked or canned fish cup finely cut sweet pickle or olives cup finely cut celery (use green tops also) tablespoon salt Y cup salad dressing or mayonnaise 4 tablespoons milk OX wv NG AN ADEQUATE DAILY DIET Peanut-Prune Filling 6 prunes cut in small pieces 1 cup seedless raisins \4 cup peanut butter 4 tablespoons milk - 1 tablespoon lemon juice Mix well. Figg Salad Filling 6 hard cooked eggs (chopped) 6 tablespoons chopped sweet pickles or olives 5 tablespoons salad dressing Y tablespoon salt c 34 tablespoon dry mustard Mix thoroughly. Cheese Filling 2 cups grated American cheese 4 tablespoons chopped pickles or relish 1 tablespoon mustard (dry or prepared) 4 tablespoons salad dressing 1 tablespoon finely chopped onion Raw carrot strips, celery sticks cut in small pieces, and raw tender turnip slices cleaned carefully and wrapped in wax paper add extra fresh vegetables to the lunch box.
Often include peanuts or any other kind of nut..
Cream soups and milk can be included in the modern lunch box that has a thermos bottle.
These increase the use of those protective foods so essential to good nutrition. DINNER Whether dinner is eaten at noon or in the evening, it should furnish the main protein dish of the day, usually meat.
With it are served _ vegetables and salads to give the needed additional vitamins and minerals, dessert and a beverage. 289 A pattern for dinner is usually something like this: Broiled Ground Beef Patties Baked Potatoes Buttered Carrots Mixed Vegetable Salad Muffins Butter Fruit Pudding Milk (for children) With the rationing of meat, we shall have to use meat substitutes more. If possible, plan to serve fish once a week, liver or kidney or some glandular meat once a week, and one of the legumes, such as dried beans or peas, once a week. Old-fashioned baked beans and soups, lima beans plain or with a ham hock, or a hearty dish of chili will help conserve meat.
Although beans are an "incomplete protein" they are a good meat substitute and contain valuable vitamins.
Cook beans once a week.
Fish loaves served with parsley, white sauce, or lemon slices, creamed fish served on crispy hot toast or with hot baked potatoes, or fresh fish when it is available, can be served once a week also.
Make it a rule to serve liver or some other type of glandular meat once a week. Beef, lamb, or pork liver are good and are less expensive than calf's liver, but are a little stronger in flavor.
Some of the most nutritious meats are found at the bottom of the price list, because we Americans have not learned to cook them.
Beef or lamb heart is such a meat, and is good either stuffed with a dressing or pot roasted.
With meat rationing, we shall have to cook more stews, meat pies, and pot roasts with delicious 290 gravies, instead of chops and steaks that will call for many more points from our ration book.
Recipes for Dinner: Stewed Heart with Rice Border beef heart (about 3
Ibs.) tablespoons cubed onion tablespoons flour tablespoons butter Salt Pepper Whole or half carrots 1 tablespoon vinegar NWN fF Wash heart and remove veins and tough fibres. Cut into pieces and brown slowly in butter. Add water to just cover and simmer 3-4 hours. Add cubed onion and carrots about the last 45 minutes.
Before serving, thicken with flour and add the vinegar.
Serve with a border of steamed rice, Sprinkle with chopped parsley.
Serves six. Curried Lamb Shanks with Rice 4 lamb shanks 1 onion 2 tablespoons butter 2-tablespoons flour 2 tablespoons salt \% tablespoon curry powder Y cup rice (uncooked).
Roll lamb shanks in flour and brown slowly in butter. Add 2 cups water, salt, pepper and simmer slowly for 2 hours.
When tender add curry powder and thicken gravy.
Serve with boiled rice.
Serves four. Liver Loaf N 14 pounds beef or lamb liver 4 slices bacon 1 onion 14 cup chopped parsley 214 cups soft bread crumbs 1 tablespoon vinegar 2 eggs 2 tablespoons salt \% tablespoon pepper Put just enough water in pan to cover the bottom.
Bring to a boil and drop in
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINEAPRIL 1943 the liver, let stand five minutes, then grind with the onion and bacon. Add eggs, crumbs, and seasonings and pack firmly into a loaf pan. Bake 1 hour at 350.
Serve with creamed potatoes. May be sliced cold. Liver Roulade Lay slices of calf's, beef or pork liver on slices of bacon. Put a small onion in the center of each and roll up and fasten with tooth picks.
Season with salt and pepper.
Bake uncovered at 350 for 30 minutes. Add 2 tablespoons catsup mixed with 14 cup water.
Cover and continue baking.
Peel and dice 4 small potatoes.
Season with salt and peper. Put in with liver.
Cover and cook till all is tender. Cheese Pudding 5 slices whole wheat bread 2 tablespoons butter 1 cup grated cheese \% tablespoon mustard 2 tablespoons chopped onion \% cup parsley (chopped) 3 eggs (beaten) 2 cups milk Spread bread with butter and cut in cubes.
Place in baking dish, add cheese, mustard, onion and parsley. Add warmed milk to eggs and pour over bread mixture. Bake 350 for 30-40 minutes. 'This is a good meat substitute and contains a long list of protective foods such as milk, eggs, cheese, parsley and whole wheat bread. Salads For good health serve salads once a day.
Salad bowls or individual salad servings make for variety.
There are many combinations for vegetables and fruit salads, and if served crisp and fresh, seasoned with a favorite dressing, they are most delicious. Beet Salad 2 cups diced beetsIf they have not been bottled in vinegar add 1 tablespoon vinegar AN ADEQUATE DAILY DIET 1 cup diced celery 2, tablespoons diced green pepper 1 tablespoon onion juice 1 package lemon jello 2 cups water Mold individually or in large mold on shredded lettuce.
Serve with asparagus tips, whole string beans or with shredded cabbage. Chef Salad in Tomato Cheese Ring 2 packages lemon jello 3 cups tomato juice 2 packages cream cheese 1 cup mayonnaise Dissolve gelatin in 114 cups hot tomato juice, when thoroughly dissolved add remaining 114 cups. Mix the cream cheese with mayonnaise and add to the cooled tomato gelatin. Mix well and place in ting mold.
Chill in refrigerator until firm.
When ready to serve unmold and fill center of ring with the following Chef Salad: Chef Salad 14 small head lettuce, broken in pieces 4 bunch watercress 14 cucumber sliced thin 8-10 radishes sliced thin Y4 cup diced celery 2 sliced hard cooked eggs few strips thinly sliced Swiss or American cheese garlic French dressing Rub the salad bowl with garlic. Put all ingredients into bowl.
Pour over just enough French dressing to coat salad Toss lightly and serve at once. Vegetables Properly cooked and _ seasoned vegetables should be a daily "must" in our wartime menus.
They should be cooked as short a time as possible, in as little water as possible, and should be served as soon as possible after they are cooked. The water left from the cooking of vegetables or from canned vegetables should be used in gravies, soups, or served hot or cold as a drink. Use the green leafy and vellow vegetables often. 291
Desserts Dried fruits "'as is" are good, but can be used many other ways.
They are always a favorite in pies and cookies.
Raisin pie or your favorite oatmeal cookies with raisins never go begging. - Orange Raisin Pudding 2 cups flour 1 tablespoon salt 1 tablespoon soda \% tablespoon ginger \% cup suet 14 cup molasses 2 eggs 1 cup applesauce 1 cup seedless raisins % cup orange or citron peel 1 cup fine dry bread crumbs Steam 2 hours, makes 10-12 servings.
Serve with orange flavored sauce. Walnut Apricot Pudding 1 cup enriched flour 1 tablespoon baking powder tablespoon soda tablespoon salt cup graham or whole wheat flour cup butter cup honey egg beaten cup orange juice cup chopped dried apricots (or dates, figs, or prunes) cup chopped walnuts tablespoon grated orange rind Sift together first four ingredients. Add graham flour.
Melt butter in large saucepan, remove from heat and stir in all other ingredients. Steam 2-3 hours in greased mold. 10-12 servings.
Serve with favorite sauce. He Ne SARAK SAN Desserts are usually easy to prepare.
Whenever possible, use more of the protective foods in their preparation such as fruits, milk, and eggs.