[Column 1]
ADDRESS TO RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE
		SCHOOL GRADUATES.
GIVEN BY ANNIE WELLS CANNON.
	Mrs. Cannon opened her remarks by re-
citing the amusing and unique dialogue be-
tween Sir Anthony Absolute and Mrs. Mala-
prop from Richard Brinsley Sheridan’s clever
comedy—The Rivals, concerning what a
woman ought to know, afterwards stating
that Mrs. Malaprop’s description logically
considered, was just about what a woman
was allowed to know something like half
a century since. Continuing, she further
said; “’Tis true that a little over fifty years
ago the idea prevailed that education for
girls, except to a limited extent, of a super-
ficial character, was a waste of time and
money, true there are along the centuries in-
dividual cases where women broke the
thrall of darkest ignorance and cast a lus-
trous light along the ages The fair Diotima
was the teacher of Socrates, and Hypatia
expounded the mysteries of the Neo-Plato-
nic philosophy to the young Greeks, and
many learned women held positions and
chairs in the universities of southern Europe.
Later, Madam de Stael, George Sand, George
Eliot and Harriet Martineau. Coming to
our own beloved land we have Margaret
Fuller Ossili and Lydia Maria Child. Oh
yes there are legions of names of women of
high intellectual culture; famous in history
for some individual act or influence or
friendship, but they did nothing for the
masses.
	Royal princesses received education be-
cause of the high position they were destined
to occupy, and the greatest advancement in
the nations has been under the rule of wo-
men. Notwithstanding these things equal
education for the sexes among the masses
has had a hard struggle, and even today,
though there have been many victories, the
battle is not yet won.
	Among the first great institutions to re-
ceive women were the medical colleges, and
today all over the land we have women
teachers, lawyers, editors, artists, and praise
the Lord, women doctors.	*	*	*
	The thinkers of today tell us of vibra-
tions of thought that pass along the earth,
but we know that it is only the inspired
ones who feel them, and it is a pleasing
thought to me that the divine message to
our Prophet that inspired him to begin this
work—The Relief Society for women
through his power, was sent vibrating along
the ways and loosened the bondage and
opened the portals just as other beaatiful
truths of the Gospel have been sent forth,
and the world’s philosophers and teachers
have received them and promulgated them
for the good of humanity.	*	*	*
	You may ask what was the need of this
organization. What the reason? Great
changes, great movements such as this are
not brought about unless conditions demand
them and conditions demanded the emanci-
pation of women for the broader assistance
of her efforts and labors among the human
race.	*	*	*	*	*
	Through this organized effort the sick and
the needy, the aged and the orphan have
been cared for outside of alms houses and
asylums, and as our efforts become more
united and our dreams are realized, the

[Column 2]
communities where we labor will be the
great examples for the world. For by edu-
cating the people in the true ways of living,
by training mankind to better keep the com-
mandments of God in regard to the care of
the human body and the mortal soul that
for a time is in his own keeping, we may
eliminate disease and suffering from our
midst.
	There are two professions that so far as I
know have never been denied to women no
matter how dense the understanding nor
how ignorant the intellect, and yet the two
that in my opinion should demand the
highest intellectual training possible —
motherhood and nursing. It is along these
lines of work that the Relief Society have
many years been teaching. Countless seeds
of thought and tireless hours of labor have
the mothers of this organization bequeathed
to the people. There are no public records,
no statements of the thousands of kind-
nesses and comforts performed by these 
good women, only in the Lamb’s book of life
is the story told. It has been a popular
belief that nature meant all women to be
mothers and nurses. Perhaps nature did
just as she intended all rose bushes to bear
roses, but compare the wayside straggling
bush with its little, fragrant flower that wilts
and falls to pieces as soon as it is plucked,
to the beautiful bush of the garden culti-
vated and pruned and watered by the care-
ful gardener, and behold the unfolding leaf
by leaf of a hardy flower of richest color,
shape and perfume, just so the intelligent
mother and nurse is a better teacher and
care taker.
	Just as I think every nurse should hope to
be a mother so I think every mother should
prepare to be a nurse, and the more intelli-
gent one is, the better qualified is she for
those important duties.
	When the girls of our great hospital re-
ceived their certificates saying that their
training was sufficient and now they could
go out into the cities and the homes of the
people, pursue the work they had been so
admirably and thoroughly taught in that
splendidly equipped institution, I thought
of you, our Relief Society nurses, who like
them in a way are about to start among the
people, not like them however with a fin-
ished course behind you and a perfect free-
dom to carve out for yourselves your way,
because your contract holds you yet to a
duty to perform, in the performance of
which you will gather knowledge and ex-
perience beyond any anticipation you could
possibly hold. You will not be co-temporary
with the hospital graduates, for they demand
a price commensurate with the training so
hardly earned, while you having only as it
were finished the first grade under your able
instructor, go forth now under a new super-
visor to learn and to do in the ways of
charity. Your earnings will not be a fair
measure of your training, nor will they profit
you much only as you earn the reward of
the true and conscientious woman, who for-
getting self helps to build up others. And
yet your work is more necessary and your
calling most honorable.
	You will have the happiness of laboring
in a purely disinterested spirit and so be
able to do for love what money could neither
procure nor reward. Do not ever think your
education in this regard is finished, but in
your ministrations take advantage of every
opportunity to learn and study this beauti-
ful science of nursing, just as a man might
study that which he truly and ardently
wishes to understand. The homes where


you will be called to work according to your
contract, are not the homes of the rich
where, if you don’t find everything you want
at hand it is only a matter of ordering it
through the telephone, but perhaps homes
where you may not find anything, homes
absolutely void of all conveniences and
necessaries, then the ingenuity and artifice
Mrs. Malaprop advises, might come to your
assistance, however don’t let trifles stand in
your way, but look around you for out of
disorder and chaos you may have to im-
provise and manufacture what you need. In
such cases take for your example the
saintly Florence Nightingale. Remember
when she reached the Crimea how wholly
without necessaries she found the hospital
camp at Scutari, and out of the rough ma-
terial around her of “boards, boxes, camp
kettles, and blundering Turks she estab-
lished laundries and kitchens,” and brought
the most perfect order out of what appeared
to be a chaotic ruin. You have not await-
ing you perhaps the glory of serving on a bat-
tlefield or under the magic order of the Red
Cross, but neither had Florence Nightingale
or Clara Barton when they first learned the
“noble art of mitigating human anguish,” it
was conditions which afterwards arose that
called them forth to their great work. When
they first studied nursing they little dreamed
of the scenes that they would witness or the
work that they would do.
	Do you know of the calls that will come
to you, they may not be national disasters,
we hope they will not be, but your ministra-
tions if faithfully performed will bring you
just as sure reward. I would admoni[-]h you
to try to make good out of everything, even
though you may be called to haunts of ig-
norance and vice, let the influence of your
own beautiful soul lift you above your sur-
roundings and be the means of scattering in-
cense around you. Out of these very circum-
stances learn a lesson. “Remember that
beautiful blind teacher, Helen Kellar, tells
us no effort we ever make to attain some-
thing beautiful is ever lost.” And after all
the secret of life is not to do what one likes
but to like that which one has to do. My
dear friends, you have gained through your
training and your study a little knowledge.
The poet Pope says: “A little knowledge is
a dangerous thing,” which is doubtless true,
so don’t be satisfied with a little knowledge
but all through your lives bear in mind this
truth that “knowledge is power,” and lose
not one moment of time to learn and to im-
prove. Don’t you know one never finishes
school, we only complete a grade, and all
along the way we are but the children of
that Master, whose divine message was love.


