[Column 1]
		BATHSHEBA W. SMITH.
			A TRIBUTE.
“Life’s waning hours, like the Sybil’s page,
	As they lessen in value rise.
Oh rouse thee and live! nor dream thine age
Stands in the length of its pilgrimage,
But in days that are truly wise.”
	It is difficult to write of one who has
ived so long and seen so much, and whose

[Column 2]
life has been so full of the riches of experi-
ences; one stands bewildered in the midst of
the overwhelming fact of such great scenes
even sometimes tragedies, through which
men and women pass who have lived long,
what tales these veterans could tell if one
could pause to listen; comedies too, per-
chance; but we cannot unfold the thrilling
incidents that are too sacred for the public
eye or ear. No! nor would we if we could,
and so we repeat again what shall one say
of this grand woman who stands among us
today like some great oak, under whose
sweeping branches—where all may come
seeking for courage and for wisdom to know
how their lives may be so ordered that 
they may pass unscathed through fiery or-
deals.
	What life has meant to her ever since her
girlhood days, when she roamed afield in
her fair Southern home “to be a Saint of
God in very deed’’ this has been her great
ambition and desire. In that far-off time,
when the young Elder George A. Smith
came and in her father’s house proclaimed
the Gospel plan, she heard and treasured
the words of life and salvation and believ-
ing with all her heart and soul, she entered
in at the baptismal door; and anon love
came, and the eternal marriage covenant:
and ever since from step to step, up the
long ladder of the narrow way, that leads
from height to height, she has mounted
planting her feet secure and firm upon each
round, until she reached the highest step-
and there she has made her calling secure
within the holy Temple.
	Do you think this long life has been one
of ease, far from it—every quality of heart
and soul that she possessed has been called
into exercise to help her on the upward way.
There have been thorns and thistles, too,
but she has not let them overcome her zeal
or fortitude, she has striven and gone past
all obstacles and by faith and prayer has
gained the victory. And now we see her
grandly beautiful at eighty-eight! Who that
has seen her in the Temple can ever forget
her stately, dignified and royal manner.
	To the youth of Zion she is a pattern they
may well strive to imitate, for she has bee 
prudent, wise and a marvel of industry;
excelling in most of the domestic arts
and sciences.
	She is the only living witness of the valid-
ity of the endowments in the days of Joseph
the Prophet, she is the only one left of those
who received these precious blessings in
those early days, and also of that noble band
of women who met by appointment in the
Masonic hall in Nauvoo, Illinois, on that
memorable day March 17, 1842, when that
first organization of women, in all the world
so far as known was effected.
	How thankful the women of the Latter-
day Saints should be to have this living wit-
ness of these two wondrous events in their
midst at the present day, and to hear from
her own lips the assurance of these facts
confirmed. This testimony has been given
verbally to thousands who should treasure
this knowledge in their hearts. It is very
important to treasure up the gems of truth
and knowledge of sacred things, spoken bymen and women who were engaged in this
great work in the very beginning, who have
been valiant and fearless in standing stead-
fast for the truth, and seeking to promote
the cause of righteousness.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith has preached
the simple life by living it. Early rising,
frugality, industry and simplicity in dress
and in household matter have in a marked

[Column 3]
degree been apparent in all her labors, and
yet she has kept abreast of the times; she
has never been behind in good works, or in
the part she has taken in affairs, public or
private, always ready, punctual to time
whenever duty called; in this one admirable
trait she excels even now, when she might
easily be forgiven if she were late at an ap-
pointment, but no, she is always at her post
on time.
	Seventeen years in the Salt Lake Temple
four days a week, what a record it is! Sis-
ter Smith has done more temple work than
any other woman; think of the thousands
she has met there and to whom she has ren-
dered service.
	Are we not proud and gratified that we
have known her, that we some of us have
served with her in the field of woman’s
endeavor. Words are inadequate to express
our admiration of her chaste and noble life
and example.
	Are we not glad that she has lived to be
	Four score and eight and vig’rous as you see?
	Has she not fought life’s battle valiantly?
	Truly she has been favored of the Lord,
	In bearing testimony of His word;
	Mother in Israel most assuredly.
								E. B. W.


