[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.
			ALPINE STAKE.
	The Relief Society Conference of the Al-
pine Stake convened April 29th at Linden,
President Rebecca Standring presiding.
Opened by singing “O Ye Mountains High.”
Prayer by Bishop Cullimore. Singing “Love
at Home,” Roll called, showing every ward
represented. President Standring opened
the conference with a few words of welcome
and appreciation of the large attendance.
Eight wards were reported by their presidents
each in good condition and working order.
	President Stephen L. Chipman compli-
mented the sisters on their reports, wished
that the same good report could be given
of all the Associations of our Stake. You
sisters can be of great assistance in swell-

[Column 2]
ing the members at our Sacrement meetings.
The Stake Presidency do appreciate the work
you sisters are doing. Prayed the Lord to
bless and and help us in the future as He has
done in the past,
	“I Know that my Redeemer Lives” was
beautifully rendered by Mary Stewart.
	Sister Annie Hindley, a returned mission-
ary was introduced, and spoke a short time.
Told us of the Relief Society work in the
Northern States, gave us some of her exper-
iences and bore a strong testimony to the
truth. Singing “We Thank Thee O God for
a Prophet.” Benediction by counselor An-
nie C. Hindley.
	Conference adjourned for noon hour and
the officers and teachers of Linden Ward
served the two hundred people present with
a delicious lunch.
	Reconvened at 1:30 p. m. with Counselor
Annie C. Hindley in charge. Singing “Guide
Us O Thou Great Jehovah.” Prayer, Robert
Thorne of Linden; Singing “Count Your
Blessings.”
	Counselor Harriet Jacobs was thankful for
the privilege of attending this large confer-
ence and gave some good instructions to
mothers with regard to the care of their
children.
	E, J. T. Roberts spoke a few moments on
the lessons prepared for the wards.
	Bishop Cullimore of Linden heartily wel- 
comed the Relief Society Conference to his
ward. Thankful for the good work and in-
fluence of the sisters of his ward. Advised
the sisters to use their influence with the hus-
bands to perform the duties placed upon
them. Invoked the blessings of the Lord on
every one present.
	Preident S. L. Chipman again occupied
a short time. Spoke on the first principles
of the Gospel and encouraged the sisters to
take hold of their lessons in earnest, so as to
be able to give reasons and proofs for our
belief.
	President Rebecca Standring said “It is
hardly possible to stand before such an aud-
ience, especially Mothers in Israel, and faith-
ful workers, without feeling an inspiration
come over one, and yet I feel inadequate
to the task. There is no end to the labors
of the sisters, and the more we do the more
we will be capable of doing. This is only a
school. Our labors here are nothing com-
pared with what they will be in the Spirit
World. I desire to continue to labor in the
cause of God as long as Father wants me to.
	God bless you my dear sisters and help us
all to honor the Priesthood and live day by
day worthy of the great blessings we are re-
cieving.
	A lesson on Faith was beantifully given
by Sister Esther Kirk.
Brother Wm. Southwick of Lehi spoke a
short time. Bishop Cullimore presented the
names of Jennie W. Johnson and Lizzie M.
Cullimore as counselors to in the Relief So-
ciety to President Cordelia Thorne. They
were sustained and set apart.
	Singing “Doxology”. Prayer by Sister
Emma Featherstone.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Number present, 232.
