occasions; she wanted her own relatives and
particular friends invited. The rooms were
artistically decorated and all the arrange-
ments were made with a view and desire to
honor her, and show reverence to her long
life of labor and usefulness in every sphere
she has been called to fill.
	She looked queenly in her shimmering
white home made silk dress and elegant,
dainty laces and her beautiful smooth white
hair with a real lace scarf gracefully thrown
over her head added much to the stately
dignity of her appearance.
	President John Henry Smith was Master
of Ceremonies and maintained the dignity
of the occasion admirably. Professor John
J. McLellan gave a piano solo and some
other exquisite musical selections; Clive’s
string band were there to add to the musical
part of the program. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas
Edward, with her beautiful soprano voice,

[Column 2]
sang several old fashioned favorites, “Mary
of Argyle,” “Silver Threads Among the
Gold” and others.
	The exercises began with the hymn “Our
Mountain Home so Dear,” prayer by Presi-
dent Francis M. Lyman. Address President
Joseph F. Smith, who spoke most affection-
ately of his dear Aunt Bathsheba, recounting
some of his childhood recollections of the
home his uncle, President George A. Smith,
church historian, and Aunt Bathsheba occu-
pied, to many known now only as the “Old
Historian’s Office; he paid a beautiful trib-
ute to her motherly tenderness and her
many virtues and excellent attributes as
wife, mother, and saint, and alluded to her
Temple work for so many years and her
faithful discharge of religious duties and ob-
ligations as well as all others in family or
public life. He gave some brief reminis-
cences of childhood, and experiences as a
missionary when very young on the Sand-
wich Islands, that were quite pathetic, ex-
pressed himself as deeply interested in the
Relief Society and his ardent desire was to
see it accomplish its great mission and des-
tiny.
	Response: President Bathsheba W. Smith
welcomed the friends and relatives assem-
bled in a few well-chosen words, rejoiced to
see them all under such prosperous circum-
stances, felt she wanted them all to keep
the faith and be true to the covenants they


