[Column 1]
made. Systems of school from the kinder-
garten [-]p to the splendid state and national
universities and the technical schools and
colleges for training the youth in every de-
partment of art and science, and all the
profe[-]sions have grown to such perfection
that, taken together with the museums and
librari[-]s and occasional exhibitions, it is
now possible to receive instruction with ill-
ustrations upon any subject that the mind
has any conception of; and trained and
skillful workmen to lead the unskilled are
supplied for every field of human endeavor.
	In literature it is only necessary to men-
tion a few names to indicate the superlative
place it has attained and to challenge com-
parison with any other age of letters. Among
English-speaking peoples there was Scott
and Byron, Thackeray, George Eliot, Jane
Austen, Elizabeth Barrett Browning, Felicia
Hemans, Dinah Muloch Craik, Disraeli,
Dickens, Wilkie Collins, George Sands,
Lord Tennyson, William Black, Kipling,
Marie Corelli, William Watson, Dobson,
Stevenson, Barrie and Gilbert Parker. And
in America Thoreau, Wordsworth, Cooper,
Longfellow, Lowell, Holmes, Whittier, Mar-
garet Fuller, Bancroft, Hawthorne, Harriet
Beecher Stowe, Louisa Alcott, Bryant,
Motley, Emerson, Greeley, Dana, Curtis,
Elizabeth Stuart Phelps, Stedman, Howells,
Bret Harte, Mark Twain, Eugene Field,
Whitman, Julia Ward Howe and the endless
list of clever story tellers.
	The making of books and magazines and
newspapers of quality and in quantities
never dreamed of marks the century just
past as more than all that had gone before
put together.
	In science the discoveries and inventions
of electricity and the power of steam and
gas have multiplied the productivity of
human labor a thousand-fold, and made
possible transportation by land and water
and the air as of all things; and communi-
cation quick, accurate, instantaneous of all
thought between peoples and nations. Think
of the wireless telegraphy, the electric light,
the telephone, the airship, the automobile,
photography, and photo-printing. What
marvels they are: and yet they were unknown
upon the earth when the Lord spoke to Jos-
eph the Prophet, as were the steam-engine
and the power printing-press.
	In religion, the influence of the truth,
though not recognized by the sectarian
teachers, has broken down creeds, and set
the people adrift in a world of unbelief. For
faith there has come tolerance among them,
for dogma, doubt, for bigotry, the higher
criticism—all these are slippery stones on
which the religionists of the day are crossing
the stream of life, not knowing where they
are going, nor why they are here.
FINALE.
	In the midst of it all the work of the
Lord goes on apace, keeping abreast with
the first in every good word and work. No
invention for the welfare of men, [-]o truth
for their instruction, no benevolence, no
charity, no refinement, no culture, no virtue
known among them, that is not cherished
and approved among us.
	Over all that the world has however, and
beyond all price, we have the authority to
teach salvation, the ordinances to save, the
power to bless. We are destined to lead
the race of men, and our childr[-]n to behold
the triumph of truth over error, the reign
of righteousness and the glory of the Lord
ruling upon the earth, when the kingdom

[Column 2]
and the greatness thereof under the whole
heavens, shall be given unto the sons of
God forever.


