IN MEM[-]RIAM.
	A tribute of love to the memory of Mary F.
Shelby, our beloved sister and co-worker, who
passed peacefully away, April 2, 1910
	She was born in Attica, Indiana. She was the
only one of her father's household who embraced
the Gospel, and like many others sacrificed home
and friends for the sake of gathering to the land


of the Saints. It can truly be said of our deceased
sister that she was a noble woman full of faith
and always willing and ready to give a helping
hand to those in need.
	Although afflicted with cancer of a malignant
form, knowing that death was inevitable, she al-
ways wore a smile and acknowledged the hand of
the Lord in her darkest hours.
	With the departure of Sister Shelby from this
scene of action, Randolph Relief Society has lost
a wise counselor and diligent worker. She was
a minute woman, ever ready to obey the advice
of those placed over her. She held the position
of president of the Y. L. M. I. A. for some time
filling it with dignity and honor to herself, always
cultivating the spirit of love and kindness, which
made her duties a pleasure along with those con-
nected with her. Latterly she was chosen coun-
selor to Celia Spencer, president of the Relief So-
ciety and this office she held until her death.
	There are scenes in this drama of life that are
hard to look upon and harder for we short-sighted
mortals to understand; we gaze as in a dream at
the grim reaper advancing upon our loved ones
with open sickle to gather them into the harvest
of death But still in looking back on the years
that we have spent together, the sunshine and
shadows, the memory of them is a precious treas-
ure and a sweet remembrance of the past.
	Sister Shelby leaves four sons and two daugh-
ters and a loving, devoted husband, besides a
host of friends to mourn her demise.
We must not say our sister’s lost
She has only gone before;
And we will meet again I kuow
On yonder shining shore.
RESOLUTIONS.
	Whereas: God in his wisdom has seen fit to call
home to another field of labor our sister, causing
us to mourn;
	Whereas: we feel it a sore trial to part with one
we so loved and esteemed, as we did Sister Shelby
who always performed her work with an untiring
devotion,
	Therefore be it resolved; while we mourn over
the present loss, we rejoice in the remembrance
of past associations and in the assurance of a re-
union yet to come,
	Resolved; that we emulate her noble character,
her gentle deportment and devotion to her family
and home,
	Therefore, we resolve to remember her as one
of God's noblewomen and a true and faithful
Latter-day Saint,
	Therefore, be it resolved in behalf of the Ran-
dolph Relief Society: We extend our heartfelt
sympathy to the bereaved husband, sons and
daughters in the loss of a kind mother and loving
wife.
	Be it resolved: that a copy of these resolutions
be placed on the records of the Randolph Relief
Society, also be printed in the home paper, and
that a copy be sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.
CELIA SPENCER,
LOUISA GRAY,
LIBBIE NEBEKER.
Committee.


