[Column 1]
CELEBRATED PEOPLE.
	Among the great events of this present
year, the one that is likely to mark the most
important changes is the death of King Ed-
ward VII. of Great Britain and Ireland and
Emperor of India, which took place May
6th, at the palace in London.
	His demise was unexpected until within
the last few hours, and it would seem the
King must have realized that his death was
imminent, for he is reported to have uttered
these decisive words: “Well, it is all over
but I think I have done my duty.’’
	The prevailing opinion seems to be that
he was a very broad-minded man, and as
serious matters were just pending in Parlia-
ment and the Cabinet, there will be some
anxiety on the part of those directly inter-
ested, what the outcome will be; probably
a postponement for an indefinite time.
	George Frederick Ernest Albert, son of
Edward VII, was publicly proclaimed king
of the United Kingdoms of Great Britain and
Ireland and the British dominions beyond
the seas, defender of the faith and Emperor
of India from the friary court balcony of
St. James palace, London, with all the
elaborate ceremony of medieval times. He
chose the title George V. His father’s death
occurred May 6th, 1910, and the proclama-
tion of the now reigning king took place
May 9th. Whatever speculation there may
be concerning the new ruler his future career
must determine.
	Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, whose name and
fame are world-wide and who is conceded to
be the most eminent living woman at the
present time, passed her ninety-first year
May 27th, 1910. Her birthday was elabor-
ately celebrated at her home in Boston, sur-
rounded by her children and grandchildren,
great-grandchildren and friends. Flowers
of fragrance in great abundance sent by
people representing many and varied con-
ditions of life were received.
	Mrs. Howe has been President of the New
England Woman Suffrage Association for
forty years; she is also and has been the
President of the Association for the Advance-
ment of Women, and was its founder for
more than thirty years, and occupies many
other important positions. She has traveled
extensively and lectured on a variety of sub-
jects at home and in foreign lands. Her
poems and books are widely known; her
Battle Hymn of the Republic would have
made her famous if she had never written
another.

[Column 2]
	The Woman’s Journal of Boston says of
her birthday celebration:
	“In her exquisite white chair which is al-
ways her throne on these anniversary days
she sat and welcomed friends and neighbors
with all her characteristic grace and charm.
On the table just back of her in the bay-
window of the dining-room were many beau-
tiful flowers including ninety fine white roses
with one large American Beauty in the cen-
ter for the ninety-one years.
	“Upon the mantle stood another large
bouquet with a letter reading: ‘To Our Grand
Lady; May the love these roses represent be
with you every step on your life’s journey is
the loving wish of your friends the Greeks
of Boston.”
	On May 25th, two days earlier, Mrs. Howe
was guest of honor at a breakfast given at
Hotel Somerset, Boston, by the New Eng-
land Woman’s Club of which she Is Presi-
dent. Mrs. May Alden Ward presided, and
about 300 persons were seated at the tables
including many dignitaries. Mrs. Ward in-
troduced Mrs. Howe ‘‘as the unique mem-
ber of the association honored here and
through all the world.” When the applause
ceased Mrs. Howe responded:
	“We are living in an age of greatest pro-
gress. If I had had any idea of what would
be accomplished in my lifetime, I should
have been much surprised, especially by the
progress among women.
	“In my youth we were shut-ins and had
no business outside the home. I had a
rather wider bringing up than other women
and refused to be content with that order of
things.
	“Now things are very different, and the
whole world belongs to us. I feel, more on
that account than for any other reason, that
we must be up and doing, and live in the
today and the future.
	“This progress is good. I know that
good brings better, and better brings better
still. What the best is to be I don’t know,
but we have hopes.”


