GRADUATING EXERCISES OF RELIEF
SOCIETY NURSE CLASS.
	On Thursday evening, May 19, the Relief
Society rooms in the Bishop's Building pre-
sented a scene both beautiful and interest-
ing. It was the occasion of the graduating
exercises of the Relief Society Nurse Class.
The rooms were bright with beautiful flow-
ers and the graduates looked especially
pretty in their white uniforms: a narrow
band of blue around the bib distinguishes
the Relief Nurses from others. There were
twenty-five girls graduated in the nurse
work and twenty in obstetrics, the latter,
Dr. Roberts private class. The spacious
rooms were full of the friends of the young
women, and besides there were present
many prominent physicians and leading
citizens. Refreshments were served in one
of the side rooms during th[-] evening.
	At the front of the room facing the grad-
uates and company sat the venerable presi-
dent of the Rel[-]ef Society, Bathsheba W.
Smith, the secretary, Emmeline B. Wells,
the treasurer, Clarissa S. Williams and other
members of the General Board, with the
speakers of the evening, Pres. John Henry
Smith and Sister Annie W. Cannon. While
Mrs. Pheobe Y. Beatie, Dr. Margaret Rob-
erts, Mrs. Emma A. Empey and Mrs. Pris-
cilla Riter were busy receiving and making
people comfortable. The exercises were
under the able charge of General Treasurer
Clarissa S. Williams and opened by the
company singing the hymn, "Our Mountain
Home, so Dear!" led by Mr. Melvin Peter-
son. Prayer was offered by Dr. E. S. Wright
after which Miss Irene Kelly sang a soprano
solo. President Bathsheba [-]. Smith spoke
briefly to the young women graduates, ad-
monishing them to good deeds and praying
for God's blessings t[-] be given unto them in
their work. After more music President
John Henry Smith addressed the class and
company. He spoke to the girls of the res-
ponsibility of their work and urged upon
them caution, faith and care; he spoke most
eloquently of the blessing, sacredness and
glory of motherhood, such words of counsel
and advice as to inspire the hearts of his
listeners and fill them with determination
to make truth and honor paramount in their


lives and hold virtue as the greatest treasure
of life. He told how men might by obedi-
ence to their mother's teachings be guarded
through life from evil deeds and be the
righteous examples to their fellow men.
How the influence of one good man might
be the means of reforming a community.
He gave timely warnings to the young wo-
men in their profession, urging them whilst
always to be cool and calm in their work,
not to be over self-confident but in cases of
danger to life to call in the best assistance
obtainable, if expert help is not at hand to
have advice from those w[-]o hold authority
and get the best aid possible. His remarks
were listened to with utmost attention and
would most certainly give inspiration and
assistance to those who heard him. After a
duet by Miss Kelly and Mrs. Peterson, Sis-
ter Annie Wells Cannon representing the
General Board, then made an address which
we would like to give in full but space will
scarcely permit of that, so we reproduce it
in part, on onother page of the paper.
	This was followed by Sister Beatie making
some very happy remarks to the class and
company and mentioning with thanks the
assistance rendered the class by many of
the leading physicians, Drs. Smullion, Allen,
Cannon, Snow, Wright, Faust, Skolfield,
Mrs. Wilcox and Dusenbury and the able
assistance of Miss Lucy Van Cott in the
Domestic Science Work. Sister Williams
then called upon the class for a rising vote
of thanks to Dr. Roberts for her patient aud
careful teaching. Miss Woolley, one of the
graduates, then presented Dr. Roberts with
an elegant cut glass bowl filled with sweet
peas from the class as a mark of their affec-
tion and appreciation. Dr. Roberts briefly
replied; after singing "Doxology," the exer-
cises were closed by prayer by Elder B.
H. Roberts, after which a social hour was
spent in conversation and congratulations
thus closing another year's work in the Re-
lief Society Nurse Class.
A. W. C.


