[Column 1]
care of the Lord had protected them and
they were very thankful. 
	The company arrived in Salt Lake City,
September 23, 1856, all in good health and
glad to meet with many dear friends with
whom they were acquainted before leaving
England. Brother Morrison purchased a
house and lot in the Fifth ward in Salt Lake
City and they were soon comfortably situat-
ed, as they had brought many necessary
comforts with them from England. 
	On the 28th of November Brother Morris-
on was engaged to take charge of a mill
which was being built at Farmington by
Samuel W. Richards, Joseph Cain, and
Elias Smith; Sister Morrison and husband
felt that they had much to be thankful for
in the land of their adoption. Not long
after being settled in their new home in
Zion Sister Morrison gave birth to a son,
who was named William G. C. Morrison,
the event occurred Dec. 9, 1856, and there
was great joy over the birth of this boy, they
felt surely the Lord had been mindful of
them and life now seemed more than ever
before worth living. 
	On the 13th of March, 1857, another
great blessing came to them. The oppor-
tunity to go to the Endowment House and
receive the blessings there and to be married
for time and all eternity, sealed at the holy
altar, by one holding the authority of the
Priesthood. 
	The next year a great change came into
their lives for the Lord revealed to them the
principle of plural marriage and they accep-
ted it in the true sense and took another
wife into the household. Sister Morrison,
like many other women among the Latter-
day Saints, made this sacrifice willingly for
righteousness sake, firmly believing it to be
a correct and holy order of matrimony; the
name of the young woman was Lucy Ether-
ington, and they dwelt together in unity. 
	It was very soon after this momentous
change in the family that Brother Morrison
was called to join others of the brethren in
Echo Canyon, at the time when Johnston’s
army were coming to Utah, a memorable
event in the history of the Territory, the
word was that the army was coming to ex-
terminate the Mormons and devastate their
homes and belongings. 
	Sister Morrison with that supreme courage
that animated the women of those eventful
days, was equal to the occasion and passed
through the trying ordeal of leaving her
home and making the sacrifice required in
going with the “Move” south as the people
were determined the scenes of the past
should not be re-enacted—the orders given
were to leave the city and Sister Morrison
without her husband prepared for the emer-
gency. 
	Sister Morrison says: “Early in April I
was ready for the journey, taking with me
my husband’s second wife and my little son
Willie, with our provisions and clothing and
bedding to supply our wants, leaving every-
thing we owned behind, trusting to a kind
Providence to open the way for us to recover
what we had left. We traveled one week
and arrived at Ephraim, Sanpete Co. (this
was in April, 1858) we met with a very wel-
come reception from the people in the Fort,
for the settlement was then in its infancy. 
There was not a house to be seen from the
time we left Nephi until we came to Fort
Ephraim, so I made up my mind to remain
there feeling that was the place the Lord
wanted me to go to, as my husband was
out in the mountains to meet the army and
I did not know when he could return, there-

[Column 2]
fore I had to assume all responsibility. The
people in the country towns were very desti-
tute of clothing, and as I had a plentiful
supply I bartered clothing and blankets for
the thihgs which I needed; I rented a house,
and paid rent three months in advance. 
Next I bought a city lot and had it plowed
and grain put in, then bought a cow, a pig
and chickens, flour, meat, butter, eggs, soap. 
Every one treated me with respect and
kindness and whenever I saw a chance to
do a kind act I took pleasure in doing it,
thereby gaining for myself many friends
who have been and are very dear to me to
this very day, it was some time in June be-
fore my husband came to us not knowing
where we were, he came south and inquired
at every settlement, until he reached Nephi,
there he was told that a few families had
gone to Sanpete, and there he directed his
steps and found hia family all well, with
plenty to eat and drink and a comfortable
house to live in, all of which was obtained
by obedience to the commandments of the
Lord given through his servant Brigham
Young.”
	The spring of 1859, on the 13th of March
a daughter was born to these goodly parents
they named her Williamina Henrietta; the
little one greatly rejoiced their hearts and
seemed a recompense for all their trials. 
Later the same spring it was deemed exped-
ient to organize a new settlement, a little
south-west; accordingly, Mt. Pleasant was
organized and settled and thither the Mor-
risons removed, thinking it would be a bet-
ter location for a family. After removing to
Mt. Pleasant, Brother Morrison was appoint-
ed Clerk of the town, also the Postmaster,
naturally being a man of fine education and
of good ability, he was called to fill impor-
tant positions of trust; subsequently he was
appointed assessor and collector. 
	The Morrison family were among the very
foremost in the new settlement they had
helped to make, as time went on there were
trials and difficulties to meet and obstacles
to overcome, but through patience and per-
severance they were able to endure all things
and to keep the faith for which they had
made such willing sacrifice. In course of
time Brother Morrison increased his family,
taking two more wives, making quite a large
family although it was a very happy one. 
Sister Morrison was the soul of kindness
and generosity and was a mother to all in
her numerous household. 
	Brother Morrison prospered in business
and in course of time built a more com-
modious home which was known as Bon-
Accord-cottage. 
	On the 15th of February, 1863, another
daughter was born to Brother and Sister
Morrison and they named her Christina
she was a very superior girl and was very
finely educated and her mother said of her:
“she was surely the comfort and joy of my
later years.”
	In the spring of 1855 Brother Morrison
was called to lead a company of fifty famil-
ies to make a new settlement in Sevier
County; the town was named Richfield, and
he was the first Probate Judge of that
county, which office he held for five years

[Column 3]
in succession, and he was also appointed
Postmaster of the new town, and kept the
office for many years and he held other offi-
ces of honor and dignity. 
	William Morrison died in 1889, honored
and respected by all who knew him, leaving
a numerous posterity to labor in the interests
of Zion. At the time of his decease he was
68 years and eleven months old and he was
sincerely mourned and greatly missed by the
community in which he had lived and la-
bored for so many years. 
	Sister Morrison was a strong-minded wo-
man and bore the loss of her husband brave-
ly, and with the true courage and hope of
a Saint of God. 
	On May 11, 1868, Sister Morrison was
called and set apart to preside over the Re-
lief Society of Mount Pleasant, Utah, and
filled the position not only with great dig-
nity and credit, but her charity and mag-
nanimity were boundless, the people of that
vicinity never tire of recounting instances of
her great love and humility and ready as-
sistance for the needy and distressed often
from her personal resources. She was the very
embodiment of that “charity that never
faileth.”
	It is stated that over one thousand of
those who have died and are buried in the
Mt. Pleasant cemetery were dressed and
laid out for burial by her without charge. 
What a record of service for others, truly
she went about doing good, and no doubt
she will receive an abundant welcome into
the courts of glory. The surviving children
of Sister Margaret Morrison are William G. 
C. Morrison of Monroe, Sevier Co., Utah, and
Williamina H. Erickson of Mt. Pleasant,
Sanpete County. Sister Erickson is the
president of the Relief Society in North San-
pete Stake and is an able and efficient pre-
siding officer. A younger daughter Chris
tina, wife of Judge Ferdinand Erickson died
in Mt. Pleasant a few years ago, leaving two
very beautiful daughters. Sister Morrison
leaves 1S grand-children and 3 great-grand-
children.				E. B. WELLS.
	“Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord, yea
from henceforth, they rest from their labors and
their works do follow them.”
“‘Blessd are they who do his bidding,!’ cries
	The angel day and night;
“They shall find abundant entrance—they
	Shall walk with Him in white!”


