[Column 1]
had made, she loved the Temple, she was
never absent a day scarcely, nor from her
meetings of the Relief Society, she testified
to the divinity of the divine mission of the
Prophet Joseph Smith and that she had re-
ceived her endowments in his life time, the
only living witness of that ordinance during
the Prophet’s life and she also told the aud-
ience she was the only living witness of that
memorable meeting held in the Masonic
Hall, Nauvoo, Illinois, when the Relief So-
ciety was organized by the Prophet himself
—she bless d all present and asked the
Lord to bless us and exhorted all present
to be faithful and true, hoped we might
have a good time.
	Music followed: Soprano solo, Sister
Lizzie Thomas Edward:—
	When I think of violets, then I think of you;
	When I think of roses, then I think of you;
it was as beautiful as a midsummer dream.
	“The story of a Century,” by Emmeline
B. Wells came next, and a motion was made
and a vote taken that it be published.
	An exquisite piano solo by Professor Mc-
Clellan called forth great applause.
	Remarks by President John Henry Smith
were full of love and tenderness as indeed,
they must be, he having looked upon “Aunt
Bathsheba” as one of his mothers, having
been bereft of his own mother at an early
age, and of a very loving nature; he has al-
ways been like an own son to his ‘Aunties’
and they all sort of lay claim to him; his
eulogy of this lady whose birthday was be-
lng honored was very suggestive of his own
standard of ideal womanhood, and in a way,
a sort of “hero-worship” as applied to wo-
man.
	As there were no notes taken it is quite
impossible to repeat in his own language the
remarks he made, but it was evident he felt
deeply, and what he expressed came from
the man’s heart.
	More music and old-fashioned songs by
Sister Edward, “Mary of Argyle,” and “Sil-
ver Threads Among the Gold,”.
	Some interesting recollections of her grand-
mother were given by Leila Merrill Allen
the eldest grand-daughter of the honored
lady and they were told in a very quaint,
realistic style, and naturally recalled to all
present the sweet simplicity of the early
days, when conditions were very different to
what they are at the present time. An ideal
grandmother certainly was Sister Bathsheba
W. Smith to all the little ones, and is today,
not only to those that are now mature men
and women, but to the next generation,who
are as devoted and worshipful and full of
love as were their mothers before them.
	President Anthon H. Lund made some
closing remarks expressing his pleasure in
being present at the 88th birthday party,
and speaking of his acquaintance with Pres-
ident George A. Smith for whom he seemed
to have great love and admiration, alluded
to the beautiful life-work of Sister Bath-
sheba and her devotion to the temple.
	The exercises were dismissed with prayer.
	A social hour followed and the daintiest
refreshments were served by members of the
board assisted by their daughters and a very
pleasant and enjoyable time with music
from the band and piano, and the birthday
party was certainly a happy affair.
	The guest of honor had many gifts and
tokens of love, and flowers in great abund-
ance,a large bouquet of American beauty ros-
es, carnations in great variety and with the
heartiest congratulations of all assembled,

[Column 2]
and earnest wishes for health and happiness
in the days yet to come. Loaded with flow-
ers and beaming with kindness and appreci-
ation the lady of 88 took her leave of the
guests, to retire to her sweet little cottage
embowered in the green vines and shrubbery
of May-time.
	We wish her more happy birthdays
		And years in the House of the Lord:
	With health and prosperity always,
		And all that this earth can afford;
	And at last a glad welcome above,
	With a fulness of joy and of love.	E. B. W.


