STORY OF A CENTURY.
		Paper by Emmeline B. Wells.
	The greatest and first event in the century
that I shall open with in the disconnected
story I have to tell, is the advent of a
Prophet, born early in the nineteenth cen-
tury, and with him and his future rests the
foundation of the renewal of light or the
coming dawn that will ultimately light the
world.
	The Father and the Son appeared in a
glorious vision to Joseph, the boy prophet,
revealing the Gospel, restoring the Holy
Priesthood and establishing the work of
God upon the earth. The splendor of this
vision, the importance of its message; its
acceptance and the fidelity with which it
has been received and delivered to mankind
has established communication between the
heavens and the earth, the diffusion of
light and intelligence of which this event
was the center, has been the influence and
impelling force working among the nations,
and upon mankind to bring about the mar-
velous events which mark the past century,
as far beyond all others in the uplifting of
humanity.
	We boast of great achievements, flights of
science, and the control of unseen forces.
Discoveries, developments, inventions al-
most innumerable, in medicine, in surgery,
in steam and in electricity, that is not only
lighting, but in a sense moving the world,

[Column 2]
together with the mechanical devices and
hidden forces controlled by man’s activity
through ingenuity and skill. And as yet we
have not reached the goal of expectation,
earth still has secrets to unfold, the dawn of
light has come, but not the full blaze of
mid-day. Man has discovered, invented,
and with magnificent power achieved
marvelous success, but the zenith of control
of unseen forces has not yet been reached.
There are still heights to climb, labyrinths
to search, the lamps that man has lighted
are but the stars of promise, the bud of ex-
pectation has not yet come to flower, and
yet we have had many surprises, through
the ingenuity of man, led by the faint light
that is penetrating the darkness of the
world.
	Great improvements have been made in
music, one of the divinest of all gifts, in the
instruments, in tone, composition and exe-
cution, until one almost feels we have
reached the highest point in instrumental
skill and in the cultivation of the human
voice. In education, along all lines there
has been marvelous progress, in art, too, in
its most intricate details, even though we
do go back to the Greeks for models. Paris
and Berlin have come to the front in this
last century with masterpieces that reveal
genius in painting and sculpture that awak-
en the highest anticipations for the future.
	Improvements and developments in the
subtle science of psychology, in the unfold-
ing of wonderful mental powers of activity,
until one stands aghast as it were at that
which is yet to be, and one can imagine the
time coming, when we shall see as we are
seen and know as we are known.
	Great advancement in astronomical ob-
servation and improvement in telescopes by
which heavenly bodies are made more tan-
gible or are brought nearer to our vision,
though not close enough to discern much of
the nature of them, but many discoveries
of stars of less and lesser magnitude and
comets have appeared at intervals and since
the advent of the Prophet Joseph, ten or
twelve comets have been visible.
	Then we must remember that we have
had wars and battles and great losses, the
anti-slavery movement causing the secession
of the South, volcanoes producing destruc-
tion and consternation, the great war of the
Crimea, in 1854 5 when we first heard of
voluntary nurses, Florence Nightingale, who
led the way and Clara Barton of the Red
Cross, both of whom are still living, and the
awakening among women, which had its
origin in the movement made by the Proph-
et Joseph Smith in organizing the Relief
Society in Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842,
which opened a new era for womankind the
world over, the Woman’s Right’s agitation
came soon after, the first great convention
being held in Seneca Falls, New York, July
1848.
	We are in the habit of saying in the days
of our grandmothers, when everything was
done by hand and in the home, and really
it has been almost wholly in the nineteenth
century we have had factories for weaving,
spinning and dyeing, and the primitive
methods were so dear that people objected
to machine made articles; sewing machines,
typewriters and such modern devices, all
labor-saving inventions, and presses run by
steam, typesetting; wondrous things have
come to pass that were never dreamed of
in our philosophy. The first steamer on the
Hudson river 1807, first steamer to cross the
Atlantic 1819; we travel now not only on
the surface of the land and water, by steam-

[Column 3]
ship, automobile and railroad, but beneath
the rivers through tunnels, under the sea in
submarines and through the air by aero-
planes.
	We have electric light, heat and cooking
thereby, gas and kerosine, oil was considered
wonderful as an improvement over tallow
candles and whale oil of early years in the
century, even lucifer matches were only in-
vented in 1829, people ask what did we do
before; long ago there was the lodestone and
the rubbed amber, and no one could have
been made (to believe) that out of this, or
from this could have come the wireless tele-
phone, the working of electric signals by
electro magnets—electric signalling or tele-
graph. In 1835 and 1837 the first needle
telegraph was set up in England, but its
utility first publicly demonstrated in 1842,
now we have the telephone, phonograph,
wireless telegraphy, that goes through ocean
waves and penetrates walls of brick and
stone and compasses the world, communica-
tion above and below, and ere long the
whole earth will be girdled with wire com-
munication.
	There seems innumerable things to men-
tion, elevators instead of climbing stairs,
and in building, instead of primitive meth-
ods, there is steel and concrete construction,
sky scrapers, though not yet in this age have
men attempted a tower of Babel to reach
the heavens.
	In summing up the story of the century
we must consider the expansion of the na-
tions. Great Britain under Victoria (and
Edward VII) with Palmerston, Peel, Glad-
stone, Disraeli, and Salisbury, in its colon-
ies—East India, Australasia, Africa and the
Canadas, and its control of Egypt has be-
come the mightiest empire in the world.
	The consolidation affected by Victor
Emanuel, Cavour, Garibaldi, of the petty
kingdoms of Italy and the domination of
the state and the pretended? rule of the
Catholic Church has made of United Italy
a kingdom of beneficence to its people free-
ing millions who are today the laborers
of all nations.
	The Franco-Prussian War created the Ger-
man empire, uniting the kingdoms and
principalities of the Teutonic race in a
nation of the first rank in power, civilization
and productiveness.
	The inspiration of that strong man Diaz,
has made Mexico a nation of influence, an
instrument to bring about the purposes of
God concerning the descendants of Lehi.
	The islands of the sea have not escaped
the influence of the Spirit of God brought
into the world by Himself, and so Japan has
become a power in civilization and the Phil-
ippines a land of freedom.
	The last vestige of the rule of kings has
been driven from the Land of Promise, in
the final expulsion of Spain and its hateful
Romanism, leaving Cuba free.
	The development of our own country, its
expansion by acquiring territory from sea
to sea, and finally in creating free states
from all its territory, the overthrow of
slavery and unification of the states through
the baptism of blood in the civil war, the
development of the West with all its won-
derful natural riches; the wise exercise of
power that a free people could not help but
acquire, by the practice of industry, and the
arts, has brought our glorious country to the
fore-front of the nations, the leader of
them all. Greatest in all that makes nations
great.
	In the education of the people in almost
every country tremendous progress has been


