SUSAN H. WELLS.
	On May 3rd, 1830, soon after the organ-
ization of the Church, the woman whose
name we inscribe here was born in Lynn,
Mass., of good Yankee parentage. May
3rd, her birthday, was celebrated by her im-
mediate family and some few invited guests,
at a luncheon given by her only daughter,
Annette Wells Culmer at the residence of
Mr. and Mrs. H. L. A. Culmer, daughter
and son-in-law. The floral decorations were
superb.
	Mr. Culmer is an artist well known for
his many views of Utah mountain and lake
scenery in which he excels, and the Culmer
home is ideally artistic, but 'tis of the birth-
day of "Aunt Susan." as she is called, we
wish to tell.
	At her own home the beautiful morning
of May 3rd, there came a troop of children,
her own little ones, grandchildren and great-
grandchildren to greet her with respect,
kisses and flowers and precious gifts, but
above all with tender love. The lunch at
Mrs. Culmer's was of the most delicious
variety and delicately served by the charm-
ing girls of the family.
	Sister Susan Wells herself wore a black
silk dress with real lace collar and trim-
mings and looked not more than fifty years
of age.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith was one of


the guests at the lunch, they have been
friends and neighbors for the greater part of
their lives, and as their birthdays occur on
the same day, the celebration never seems
complete unless they come together during
the day to exchange greetings. These gath-
erings in large families mark the mile-stones
along life's highway and call up memories
that are especially delightful to remember.
	Since the last birthday of Sister Susan
Wells one of the family, and of the house-
hold has crossed over to the other side, and
is sorely missed in social and family gather-
ings as well as in the household where she
was for many years the central figure. It
was better to have the birthday festivities at
the daughter's home, for one must not in-
dulge in excessive grief, it is not good for
the body or soul; to be cheerful and wear a
glad countenance is much better for us all
than to indulge in sadness.
	Sister Susan Wells has a fine family and
many blessings, beautiful grandchildren and
great-grandchildren to rise up and call her
blessed, and she has been faithful and true
in all the walks of life. We congratulate
her on her four score years, and pray she may
live as long as life is desirable.


