[Column 1]
		PEACE MEETINGS.
	We are pleased to state that in the North
Weber Stake, Peace meetings have been held
in every ward, also that the meetings were
all held on Sunday evening, May 15th, 1910.
	There are twelve wards in this stake. The
programs rendered were under the auspices
of the Relief Society and the Y. L. M. I. A.
and were as follows:
	Far West: Songs, “Red, White and Blue,”
“Star Spangled Banner;” Peace poem by
Mrs. Susa Kotch; piano solo by Bessie Tay-
lor; Hague Court and Arbitration, Mrs. Sarah
A. Larkin; Peace rallying song, Helena Cot-
tle, Walter Cottle, Clarence Stephenson and
Cora Stephenson; recitation, “Let there be
Peace,” Maud Taylor; solo, “Somewhere,”
Alice Burnett; “Utah Stake Peace Poem,”
Mrs. May Stewart. Resolutions were adopt-
ed. 83 present.
	Harrisville: Songs, “America,” by Con-
gregation, and “Red, White and Blue,” by
five little girls; Hague Court and Arbitra-
tion,” Mrs. Emmeline Shurtliff; duet, “Just
Before the Battle, Mother,” Mr. and Mrs.
Samuel Blair; Peace talk, Mrs. Emma
Harris; recitation, “Let us have Peace,”
Miss Fern Harris; solo, “Star Spangled Ban-
ner,” Miss Edith Beryessa. Resolutions
were adopted. 79 present.
	Lynne: Songs, “Red, White and Blue,”
“There is a place in Utah,” “Star Spangled
Banner,” “God will protect thee;” recitetion,
“Utah State Peace Poem;” Hague Court and
general peace talk, Mr. Lawrence Malin.
Resolutions were adopted. 60 presens.
	Ogden Third Ward: Songs, “Star Spangled
Banner,” "America,” ‘‘Lord we ask Thee,”
Hague Court and Arbitration and general
peace talk by Lucretia West and Lucy A.
Steers; recitation, “Let there be Peace,”
Emma Greenwell; solo, “Peace rallying
song,” Lawrence Greenwell; peace talk,
Sarah Williams; international arbitration,
Christian J. Jensen; solo, ‘‘Hail Columbia,”
George O. Nye. Resolutions were adopted.
200 present.
	Ogden Tenth Ward: Songs, “America,”
“Star Spangled Banner,” “Lord we ask
Thee,” Hague Court and Arbitration, George
Barker; recitation, “Let there be Peace,”
Mrs. Bradley, solo, “The Prince of Peace,”
Mrs. Florence Fisher; recitation, “Peace in
the Home,” Maud Barker; solo, Mrs. Porter.
Resolutions were adopted. 77 present.
	Taylor Ward: Songs, “The Star Spangled
Banner.” ‘‘Columbia the Gem of the Ocean;”
“America;” recitation, “Let there be Peace,”
Elizabeth Wayment; Hague Court and Arbi-
tration, Ella Barnes and Mr. Elijah W. Clay-
ton, solo, “Just as the Sun went down,”
Minnie J. Jardine; “Peace rallying song,”
Lillian and Ethel Hunter; recitation, “Let
us have peace,” Hazel Daley; remarks.
Bishop William H. Jardine. Resolutions
were adopted. 88 present.

[Column 2]
	West Weber Ward: Songs, “America;”
“Red, White and blue,” “Peace rallying
song;” recitation, “Let there be Peace,”
Agnes Hogge; “Utah State Peace Poem,”
Annie Penman; Hague Court and Arbitra.
tion, George Hislop. Resolutions were adopt-
ed. 72 present,
	Marriott: Songs by congregation, “Ameri-
ca,” and “Jesus once of humble Birth.”
“Our Mountain Home so Dear;” Hague
Court and Arbitration, Mrs. May N. Butler;
duet, “Truth reflects upon our senses,” Mr.
Albert Powel and Mr. Richard C. Butler,
reading, “Let us have Peace,” Mrs. Eveline
James “Red Cross Society,” Mrs. Harriet
R. Bingham; violin solo. Mr. Lawrence
Millard; reading, “Let there be peace,”
Mrs. Marcia A. Reeder; anthem by choir.
Resolutions were adopted. 100 present.
	Plain City: Songs, “Behold the Mountain
of the Lord,” “Star Spangled Banner,”
“Red White and Blue,” solo and chorus,
“Just before the Battle, Mother;” instru-
mental selection, Bertha Robson; solo, “The
Guiding Star,” Iona Garner, Hague Court
and Arbitration, Florence Jenkins; arbitra-
tion vs. war, Peter M. Folkman; talk on
peace, Bishop Henry J Garner, recitation,
“Let there be peace,” Rose Kerr; “Utah
State Peace Poem,” Cora Carver. Resolu-
tions were adopted. 142 present.
	Slatervilte: Songs, “Star Spangled Ban-
ner,” “America,” “Closing Hymn;,, Hague
Court and Arbitration, Mrs. Isabel Allred;
solo, “There is a place in Utah,” Cora
Cowan, reading on peace, Jerome Wheeler;
recitation, “Let there be Peace,” Ada Perry;
duet, “My Father Knows,” Alice Holly and
Della Howell; peace talk, Bishop James
Slater; reading, “Let us have peace,” Eliza
H. Knight. Resolutions were adopted. 55
present.
	Wilson Ward: Songs, “The Star Spangled
Banner,” “Red White and Blue,” ‘ Peace on
Earth and good will to Men;” First Hague
Court, Eliza D. Martin; Second Hague
Court, Elizabeth Wilson. duet, “Just before
the Battle, Mother,” Edwin M. Bingham
and Norman Olsen; recitation, “Let us have
Peace,” Anna Drake; duet, “Peace rallying
song,” Julia Moore and Sarah Cowley; read-
ing, “Let there be peace,” Ellen Hogge.
Resolutions were adopted. 121 present.
	Warren Ward: Songs, “Star Spangled Ban-
ner,” “America” “Parting Hymn;” First
Hague Court, Cederisa Willis; Second Hague
Court, Isabel M. Ward; duet, “Just before the
Battle, Mother,” Rose Bullock, Hazel Wade;
reading, “Utah State Peace Poem,” Melissa
Willis; remarks, Bishop William T. Way-
ment and Myron Wade. Resolutions were
adopted. 40 present.
	Yours in the cause of truth and peace.
			GEORGINA G. MARRIOTT,
						President R. S.
			MARY N. BUTLER,
						Secretary R. S.
			ELIZA F. MCFARLAND,
				President Y. L. M. I. A.
			LLLLIE MOYES,
						Secretary.


Queen Mary is the first Queen consort born
in England for two hundred years. She is
described as a woman of strong will and vig-
orous initiative, and it is believed that she
will be a power in the life of the court and
of the nation. She was educated, as was
Queen Victoria, in the strictest, simplest
way. She is fond of music and art and is a
good needle-woman. She is described as a
model mother, and is devoted to her hus-
band and children.


