RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE JULY, 1916. SPECIAL ARTICLES BIRTH CONTROL Elders Richards, MacKay, Whitney and Smith. A PRICELESS GOLDEN WEDDING DAY Prest. Joseph F. Smith, and Mrs. Julina L. Smith. WHEN FIRST WE MET Alfred Lambourne. HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT Utah Sugar Janette A. Hyde. Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 29, Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year Single Copy 10c Vol. III No. 7.
TWO BOOKS Your Dealer Sells Family Record of Temple Work for the Dead A simplified form, with complete "Utah-Idaho" instructions for properly recording this work. So great is the demand, and so L. D. S. Family and Individual Record popular is the brand of Utah-Idaho Arranged specially for recording Sugar, that it may be ordered by in a most desirable and concise form, name from your dealer; he is sure to important events in the lives of have this perfect sugar; every progressive members of the church. dealer has it in stock. These books are sold at $1.25 each Deseret News Book Store Housewives have found what a 6 MAIN STREET pure, clean, white, dependable sugar it is; how well it sweetens foods, and how satisfactory the results are when it is used for cooking, preserving and jellymaking. When WE Make Your Portraits, YOU get the Correct Let your dealer know that you are Style, Excellence and a judge of good things by specifying Satisfaction "UTAH-IDAHO" the next time you order sugar. More economical by the sack. Utah-Idaho Sugar The Thomas ABSOLUTELY PURE Studio UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR CO. Phone Was. 3491 44 Main St. JOSEPH F. SMITH, PRESIDENT THOS. R. CUTLER, Vice-Pres and Gen'l Mgr. Established 1877 Phone Was. 1370 STAR PRINTING CO. SUPERIOR PRINTING 35 P. O. PLACE SALT LAKE CITY Attention To Subscribers Agents for the Relief Society Magazine will receive a 19¾ discount for all subscriptions obtained. All individual subscriptions sent into this office must be accompanied with $1.00, as there is no discount allowed to single subscribers. All expenses incurred by agents such as postage, postal orders, etc., must be borne by agents themselves. Please Use Our Subscription Blanks The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
The Relief Society Magazine Owned and Published by the General Board of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
CONTENTS:

To My Mother L. Lula Greene Richards 361
A Little Child Shall Lead Them Frontispiece
Birth Control 363
A Priceless Golden Wedding 369
Mother's Day Nephi Anderson 374
The True Calendar Hazel S. Washburn 377
When First We Met Alfred Lambourne 378
Graduation Exercises 379
Crochet Centerpiece Isabel Whitney Sears 382
A Prince of Ur Homespun 386
Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde 396
Current Topics James H. Anderson 399
Plain Gossip Mrs. Grundy 402
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 404
Revelry Maud Baggarley 407
Genealogical Notes 408
Editorial: Who Can Help Me? 409
Guide Lessons 412
Charms of Springtime Evan Stephens 418

ADVERTISERS:

BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE CO., Vermont Bldg., Salt Lake City
DAYNES-BEEBE MUSIC CO., 45 Main St., Salt Lake City
DESERET SUNDAY SCHOOL UNION BOOK STORE, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City
DESERET NEWS BOOK STORE, Books and Stationery, Salt Lake City
KEELEY ICE CREAM CO., 55 Main, 260 State Streets, Salt Lake City
MERCHANTS' BANK, Third South and Main Streets, Salt Lake City
McCONAHAY, THE JEWELER, 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City
RELIEF SOCIETY BURIAL CLOTHES, Beehive House, Salt Lake City
GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY, 60 East South Temple
STAR PRINTING CO., 30 P. O. Place, Salt Lake City
SANDERS, MRS. EMMA J, Florist, 278 So. Main St., Salt Lake City
SOUTHERN PACIFIC RY., Second Floor, Walker Bk. Bldg., Salt Lake City
THOMAS STUDIO, Photographs, 44 Main Street, Salt Lake City
TAYLOR, S. M. & CO., Undertakers, 251-257, E. First So. St., Salt Lake City
UTAH CEREAL FOOD CO., Ogden, Utah
UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY, Salt Lake City Utah
UTAH STATE NATIONAL BANK, Salt Lake City
UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE, Logan, Utah
Z. C. M. I., Salt Lake City
To My Mother. On Her One Hundredth Birthday, April 3, 1916. When I was weary, as a little child, You closely watched with loving eyes and mild, To see and learn what hurt or troubled me, As trustingly my head lay on your knee. You taught me, lest some fear my soul should haunt, "The Lord my Shepherd is, I shall not want." O! that each little child might early hear And learn of "love that casteth out all fear." When first a song welled up from my small throat, Your ear, delighted, quickly caught each note Like mother bird surprised with fledgling wing, You made me feel your joy that I could sing. When adolescence, budding in my heart, Caused cheeks to flush and nerves to quivering start With impulse strange which nature must obey, You knew and safely piloted the way. In reaching grave maturity's estate, When my heart's tendrils blindly sought its mate, Your love still guided me all dangers past, And helped me find the truest, best at last. Your home is Heaven now; in mansions fair Father and you still mention me in prayer, And that safe influence will lead me on 'Till, sometime, I shall go where you have gone. L. Lula Greene Richards.
"A Little Child Shall Lead Them." THE Relief Society Magazine Vol. III. JULY, 1916. No. 7. WHO CAN HELP ME? Not all the king's horses nor all the king's men can put an egg together again. When the body has broken with the over-strain of modern life, and the spirit runs out to spread itself despairingly over the ruins, life is like a broken egg, and the soul is flat and spent with the awful effort of breathing. The faculties are held in a misty suspension, the grinding pressure of the daily world-wheels press upon the brain with inconceivable torture. We are spilled out of God's hand, and neither time nor eternity possesses form or cohesion. How we long for help, for any help human or divine. And human skill is so much nearer, so much easier to secure. We cry out for human aid God is so long in reaching us ?we say. On our bosom lies the agonized child whose The Sick fluttering breath creeps in dying gasps over Child. the twitching lips. Earth, men, hope, loves ? all are as phantoms. We swing suspended in a universe whose immensity is the greater for the little body at its throbbing center. All the processes of nature cease, the demands of living creatures do not exist for us until the little gasping breath is still. 410 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. The night is a gaping, open tomb to sick Weeping Enfancies. All the fears, the dread images, the dures Through panting terrors which hide away, when the the Night. sunshine and children are awake and about, come trooping out of their lairs and camp on the pillow and about the bedside of the lonely sufferer. Not for the world will we rouse the tired watcher by the bedside, nor disturb the sleeping husband. If it were pain, ah, then we could call and all would hear and spring to instant help. But these awful fears the vast troop of "what ifs" the fear of a fear the forecast the gloomy clutch of past sorrows or mistakes these are without form and void, and not sufficiently grave to justify our selfish longing for human help and sympathy. And so we lie and suffer ?we feel the point of every hair on our head the quivering nerves almost snap! Sleep sleep who said that sleep was man's common heritage? Not we who toss and pray and weep and shrivel with our fears. Hark! The baby's breath. Was there not a rasping sound to that? Down into the pit of our fears, the dear Lord Hope's Ladder, places a ladder of hope. It is there each round is dully gold in the twilight of our suffering. We set foot there again and again, but we are too weak too impatient to climb slowly and steadily. And so we thrust it away, and go on suffering, and agonizing. Our darkness is unlit, the pit is too deep, the ladder is too frail. The first step breaks so often that we bring the whole ladder tumbling about our ears while we lie crushed beneath its weight. Another weapon for our release the Lord The Trowel throws down to us. The trowel of faith. of Faith. About us lie the ruins of our body like useless bricks about a fallen building. We may mend them slowly up again, if we will. It happens some rare times ah, what a happening is there that Jesus in His mercy seizes the trowel and with one stroke replaces the structure as it was?clean, whole, comely. But He rarely does this He might do so oftener if we only asked Him oftener but He has taught us how to build again the shattered body, placing brick on brick, moistening the mortar with our nightly tears, and using that strong, sure trowel of faith. Have you tried building thus a worn-out tabernacle? God is our help, now as in ages past. Not a He is Our passive help, but an ever-present, ever active Help. and constructive help. We may be sick, we may be sorry, but we need not stay so long. He is there, just behind the cloud. He and His angels are everywhere. But unless you want His help, ask for it, crave it, pray for it, you will not get it. His common gifts of light and life EDITORIAL. 411 He gives to all. But if you want a special gift, you must make a special prayer. If you want help from a skilful physician, you must ask for it and then you pay the price. He comes to you again, and yet again. 'Tis so with God. He sends His healing angel to you once and yet again, and still again. Says the gracious mother of the Prophet in her history, speaking about one of her many healings (page 221): "The next morning after our arrival, the family being absent, I seized the opportunity to make an effort to get far enough from home to pray without interruption. Accordingly I took a staff in each hand, and by the assistance which they afforded me, I was enabled to reach a dense thicket, which lay some distance from the house. As soon as I was sufficiently rested to speak with ease, I commenced calling upon the Lord, beseeching Him to restore me to health, as well as my daughter Catherine. I urged every claim which is afforded us by the Scriptures, and continued praying faithfully for three hours, at the end of which time I was relieved from every kind of pain my cough left me, and I was well." Think healthful thoughts. Say peaceful Help Yourself, words. Say over and over, in your mind, hymns or psalms. Refuse to think of your sorrow or your pain. Tell your will to obey your spirit. Don't be crushed or disheartened by constant defeat. You will not die till your time comes, nor will your loved ones, unless you open the door to death and invite him in through your allowing morbid fancies, and your constant talk and thought about your own symptoms and fears or that of your dear ones, to weaken and destroy your citadel. You refuse to allow foul, physical air in your sick room or bed chamber don't allow disease-breeding thoughts, emotions and whinings, to taint the spiritual atmosphere. Brace up. Be a good, spiritual sport. Grit your teeth, shut your lips, hold your hands tight, and fight just plain fight. That's what Jacob did at Bethel, when his thigh was put out of joint. Die if you must, suffer if you have to do so, but be a soldier about it. Keep your face, your fighting face, to the foe. Not your squirming, cowardly back. The Lord loves a brave soldier so do all men. God is our help. He can heal and comfort us, if we greatly work and greatly pray. Guide Lessons. LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in August. Work and Business. Second Week in August. SUMMER HEALTH LESSONS. Third Week in August. PREVENTION OF DISEASE. Note. We especially commend this splendid and succinct lesson by Dr. Charles F. Wilcox to our students everywhere. It is the multum in parvo concerning the subject treated. LESSON I. PREVENTION OF DISEASE. The wonderful disclosures of the microscope have revealed a new world and humanity has reaped a very great and important benefit from it. By magnifying many hundred diameters it was found that countless germs existed in the air and on everything around us. A further study of these germs showed them to be mostly of vegetable origin; also that the great majority of them were not only not harmful, but that they were actually useful in promoting fermentation notably the yeast germ, and the germs that produce the fermentation in milk, wines, beers, etc. It was also found that these germs were living entities and that they reproduced themselves that they could be destroyed by heat, dry or moist, by certain chemicals, such as chloride of lime, iodine, etc., also that sunlight was a great destroyer of germs. It was also found that certain colonies of germs or bacteria were the direct cause of nearly all the diseases that afflict the human body. Louis Pasteur, a noted French chemist, was one of the first GUIDE LESSONS. 413 men to experiment along these lines and he developed the germ theory of fermentation and proved beyond question of doubt that there was no such thing as "spontaneous generation of life," but that all life was due to cellular activity and must be produced by a pre-existing, living cell. His researches along these lines were of immense benefit to the wine and beer industries of France and Germany. It was this discovery that has made possible the canned fruit and vegetable industry that furnishes so much of our winter supply of food. When the silk industry of France was in danger of being entirely destroyed by the worms dying prematurely, he found their death was caused by a germ. He immediately applied himself to find a remedy and was so successful that he not only saved the silk industry to the nation, but gained honor and undying fame. At this early stage of his researches, he expressed himself to the effect that what he had been able to do with the silk worms, he hoped would be possible to do with higher animals, and perhaps even human beings might be benefited by his great discovery. He certainly pointed the way that has led up to the present advanced position of medical science and while there are hundreds of names of eminent men who have done much to bring medicine out of the realm of uncertainty and empiricism to the pinnacle of true science where it sits today, a shining monument should be erected to the names of Harvey, Jenner, Lister, and among the long list of illustrious men that have followed down to the present, none shines brighter than that of Louis Pasteur. The discovery of Edward Jenner that vaccination will certainly prevent that dreadful scourge, small-pox which, up to his day, was the most dreadful disease known to the human race, has made it so mild and so infrequent that it is no longer feared. It is not too much to say that he has been instrumental in saving millions of lives. In the Spanish-American war one-fifth of the soldiers in the national encampment had typhoid fever. During the last four years our soldiers numbering, over twenty thousand, have been patrolling the border in Mexico, and not one case of typhoid fever has been reported in the army. This immunity has been secured by proper and timely vaccination. The mortality of diphtheria has been reduced from 40% to less than 10% since the introduction of antitoxin and thousands of children who have been exposed to diphtheria have been saved from the disease by a timely dose of antitoxin. The economic loss in the United States from tuberculosis alone has been estimated at two hundred million dollars annually. During the last forty years the death rate of tuberculosis has been reduced fifty percent. This great reduction has been brought 414 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. about by better sanitary measures and an earlier recognition of the disease which makes it much more favorable for treatment. What is true of the foregoing is equally true of nearly every contagious disease known. In summer, germs develop more rapidly than in cold weather. This accounts for the increased death rate in children during the summer months. Germs develop rapidly in milk when it is not free from dirt and extraneous material, or when it is not placed in sterile containers and then kept cool. Flies not only carry the typhoid germs, but many other harmful ones, notably the colon bacillus. This germ, when taken into the system, is very injurious and is responsible for many deaths. The water supply, in country districts, should be carefully guarded against contamination. It is said that cleanliness is next to Godliness, but it is quite proper to say that cleanliness is Godliness itself. The Great Creator has placed in the human body elements that tend to protect him against the death-dealing germs, and when the body is clean within and without, and proper regard is had for the general rules of hygiene, and all manner of excesses in diet, exercise and everything that tends to overstrain the body or reduce its vitality is avoided, it is rendered almost immune against disease of every kind, whether contagious, infectious or toxic. QUESTIONS. How were germs discovered? What are germs? Of what use are they? What harm can they do? How do they get into the system? Where are they found? How are they destroyed? What did Louis Pasteur do? What did Edward Jenner do? What would happen if everybody in the world were vaccinated against small-pox and typhoid fever? When two children are exposed to a contagious disease why does one take it and the other not? Why are babies made sick in summer more than in winter? How can you prevent nearly all diseases? GUIDE LESSONS. 415 Fourth Week in August. THE TEETH AND THEIR CARE. LESSON II. The human countenance is much beautified by a set of teeth which are healthy, white, and symmetrical. Good teeth are greatly to be desired. Not only are they an aid to fine looks, but they are of the utmost importance in helping to maintain the general health. Good health depends largely on good digestion. Mastication or grinding of the food is the first process of digestion, and perfect mastication can only be accomplished with the best of teeth. Time was when people actually expected to lose their teeth as the years went by and some aged people became entirely toothless. That condition gave rise to the expression "nut cracker face" when, on account of shrunken gums and sunken lips, the prominent nose and chin would almost meet. The invention of artificial teeth changed that condition entirely. Now, the science of dentistry has advanced so near to perfection that the ordinary mortal may have his natural teeth until he dies of old age. Much of the misery and distress of the teething period are averted by the proper care of the infant, and with the teeth a good beginning is most important. The properly trained child is taught to give careful attention to his teeth at a very early age. Wise parents give their children food containing the elements needed for the building up or the growing a good set of teeth. For the first three years the milk diet should be mostly depended upon, the diet being varied during the third and following years in accordance with knowledge and wisdom. The outer covering of the teeth is called enamel and it is the hardest tissue found in the body. If the enamel could be kept always in perfect condition the teeth would not suffer from disease or decay. It appears that Nature has designed the teeth to last as long as life, because after the teeth are once completely grown, she makes no provision for repairing or restoring the enamel. All the other tissues of the body have formative cells which continually repair waste or promote growth. It is only the teeth, after they are full grown, that are left without these reproductive cells. As soon as the teeth are completely grown these formative cells disappear. Many causes contribute to the cracking or other injury of the enamel, and it is after the enamel is injured that decay sets in, and the services of the dentist are required. Cracking nuts or other hard substances is a frequent and common source of 416 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. danger. The people who sew should cut their threads with scissors or thread-cutters and not use the teeth for that purpose. Drink or food taken into the mouth too hot or too cold works injury to the enamel. Sudden changes of temperature such as following hot food with cold or the reverse is very hard on the teeth. Too much sweets and candy are injurious to the stomach and cause decay of the teeth. Also the teeth should be kept clean and free from any remaining particles of food that might ferment and cause disease or decay germs. Sucking of the thumbs or fingers is a habit that is quite frequent among infants and young children. It is a habit which should be corrected without delay, because if continued it is very apt to cause the mouth to be malformed or the shape and expression spoiled, by uncomely, projecting teeth in adult life. Another dreadful result of this pernicious habit may be adenoids. The services of a good dentist should be regularly employed ? and he should investigate the teeth about twice a year every six months. This attention should begin even with the temporary set or "baby set," at the very first sign of decay. A very great mistake is frequently made by neglecting the "six year molars." They are the first permanent teeth to appear and never should be extracted if they can possibly be preserved to the individual by filling or other dental work. Frequently brushing of the teeth with a soft brush, preferably after each meal, up and down, across, inside and outside, and the use of an anti-septic tooth wash are necessary to their proper care and preservation. The Chinese rub the cleansing material over the teeth with the finger. The tooth brush is unsanitary unless frequently sterilized. QUESTIONS. Name two special reasons for giving the best care to the teeth. What was the condition of many of the aged people in days gone by? With personal care and the aid of the dentist what may be the condition now? Is there any way of aiding the growth of good teeth? Tell anything you know on that subject. Tell some facts about the outer covering or enamel of the teeth. Name some of the causes that contribute to the injury of the teeth. Tell what you think about the services of the dentist. What is the personal care that should be given the teeth? GUIDE LESSONS. 417 NOTES TAKEN FROM REMARKS OF DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS AT THE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, MAY 8, 1916. Dr. Roberts spoke of disease germs and how readily they are distributed. People should never cough nor sneeze without using a handkerchief to keep the germs from spreading. Mothers who have a cold should tie a handkerchief over the nose and mouth when nursing the babe. It is from the mother's breath more than from the milk that baby catches cold from its mother. Insist upon children breathing with mouth closed, whether awake or asleep. Do not let them use pacifiers nor suck thumb or fingers. LET BABIES SLEEP ALONE. To aid them in cutting teeth let them bite on something hard. Clothing may be protected by bib or towel. To have sterilized rags boil water twenty minutes and wash rags in it. Then bake them in paper for one hour and wrap in sterilized cloth or towel. For ear ache put two or three drops of salt water in ear. Blow in more to get air in the ear. That often cures. For a sprained wrist, soak wrist in cold salt water. Change water frequently. For nose bleed, stand with arms extended and raised high, rest them against the wall and throw the head back. Another way is to press fingers on the arteries in the front upper gums. To prevent fainting, double up the patient like a jack-knife. Might have him pick up something from the floor. Among the supplementary books which can safely be recommended to our sisters who desire to read more and know more concerning their theological lesson work, we would suggest the book by Willard Done entitled, Women of the Bible. While our sisters should not permit themselves to neglect the necessary reading in the Bible in the preparation of their lessons they will still find very much that is good and useful in this excellent book by Brother Done. CHARMS OF SPRINGTIME Duet for 1st and 2nd Treble Evan Stephens. [Musical notation follows] let me live while the flowers are blooming, Making the gardens and meadows so fair, Bathing in dewdrops so bright in the morning, Filling with fragrance the soft summer air. When 'mong the flowers the bee sips the honey, From out their petals so varied in hue, And the sweet humming bird searching the blossom, Brightest among the bright flow'rs he can view. CHARMS OF SPRINGTIME. 419 [Musical notation continues] 2nd Time But when flow'rs are withered and dying, And the But when the flowers are withered and dying The birds with their songs have all flown far away, And the cold blast of the autumn sighing All nature is fading and donning her grey. Gladly with them, then would I rest. 420 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. There has come to the editor's table another group of charming poems by Alfred Lambourne. It is a tribute of one poet, Alfred Lambourne, to another poet, William Shakespeare. Every line breathes the reverent affection of a soul who knows how to pay tribute to the high priest at the altar because a living coal from that altar has been laid upon the lips of the kneeling devotee. Alfred Lambourne has cheered many a weary heart, inspired hope in unhappy homes and has cast the beautiful thrall of poesy about the stern realities of early life in these valleys. Now that the steps of his fancy has led him into the paths about Stratford-on-Avon, he has made beauty more beautiful and poetry sweeter for his song. Those who love matchless Shakespeare, and there be many; and those who love gentle Lambourne, and they also are many, will find joy in this new booklet from his pen. The Most Interesting, Inspiring and Beautiful Scenic Sections of the West ARE REACHED VIA Including Ogden Canyon Bear River Canyon Shoshone Falls Yellowstone Park Jackson Hole Country Lost River Country Wood River Country The Snake River Payette Lakes Country Columbia River and Pacific Coast Resorts Pacific Coast Excursions Just What You Daily to November 30th Need! For Descriptive Literature, address D. E. Burley, A good, healthful breakfast food General Passenger Agent, one you do not have to coax the O. S. L., Salt Lake City, Utah children to eat. "SUN RIPE" Rolled Oats are delicious. They will tempt any appetite. Z. C. M. I. School Shoes For Boys ROLLED OATS ? the new cereal food, is made at Ogden, Are made for service Utah, in America's newest and most they will keep the boys' modern cereal food factory under the direction of a milling expert, Mr. F. E. feet warm and dry. Walsh. These oats are the choicest the sun-bathed valley of the "Rockies" can produce. Their natural flavor and purity Z. C. M. I. are protected all the way to your home, in air-tight, dust-proof packages. ALLOVERS You'll like "SUNRIPE" Instant are the ideal Koffe-et. ALL GROCERS. play garment "Contains the Strength of the Hills" for boys and UTAH CEREAL FOOD CO. girls. Cheap, OGDEN, UTAH serviceable. EVERY RELIEF SOCIETY SHOULD HAVE "The Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine," which is the organ of the Genealogical Society, and contains genealogical matter of great value in the study of Relief Society lessons. Issued quarterly. Price $1.50 a year. To members of the Genealogical Society, and to Relief Societies, $1.00. Send subscriptions to GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY OF UTAH, 60 East South Temple, Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. BURIAL CLOTHES Relief Society General Board furnishes complete Burial Suits Address JULINA L. SMITH, Phone Wasatch 207 67 E. South Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah Utah's Most Popular Music House English and American SAVE HALF ARCHITECTURE When Buying Your Piano By GEO. M. ALLEN We always have on hand a representative is in Mrs. Horne's Art Book, stock of instruments used as demonstrators, returned from rentals, etc., practically good as new, but DEVOTEES AND THEIR AT ABOUT 1/2 ORIGINAL PRICES SHRINES. Send to this office or Mention this magazine and ask for special list. to Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, 4 Ostlers Court, Salt Lake City, for this book from which the lessons on architecture for 1916 are assigned. THE STATE OF UTAH PRICE $1.25 POSTPAID Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing The Relief Society School of Obstetrics and Nursing announces the opening of its thirteenth school year on Monday, September 18, 1916. School term, 8 months. ? Course A Entrance fee for the course in Obstetrics, which includes nursing and invalid cooking $50.00. ? Course B Entrance fee for course in Nursing, which includes invalid cooking $25.00. ? Course C At intervals during the school year, lectures on Public Health, Prevention and Treatment of Diseases, Etc., will be given by eminent physicians, surgeons, and specialists. No charge. Course D ?A class in Invalid Cooking will be conducted by experts no extra charge for students taking other courses. ; Instructor, DR. MARGARET C. ROBERTS. For further information write to General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman, Room 29 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. UTAH AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE ? ? Mothers, educate your daughters and sons to become invaluable assets to the State and to the Nation. Girls, prepare yourselves for ideal wives and mothers, by securing an education in Housekeeping and Home-making at The Agricultural College of the State of Utah. If the "DAY" has been set Let me sell you the Ring Diamond Rings $20 and up One Quality Only?the Best McCONAHAY the Jeweler 64 Main Street, Salt Lake City Do You Believe in Signs? HERE IS A GOOD ONE When You See This Sign You Think of a Trip to Beautiful California and Safety, Service, Scenery, Comfort, Convenience and Courtesy FOR YOU AND THOSE YOU LOVE DON'T YOU? How about that trip this summer We want you to have a good time It will make us better friends Come in and let us help you plan your trip. That is what we are paid for, and we love our work C. L. McFAUL Ticket Office, Second Floor Walker Bank Building 