[Vol6 | February 1919 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons - Lesson II - Work and Business]
GUIDE  LESSONS.  115 
as  many  as  could  come  for  the  multitude  did  kiss  his  feet,  inso- 
much that  they  did  bathe  his  feet  with  their  tears." 
Surely  this  was  a  glorious  day  for  the  people  of  this  conti- 
nent. Surely  it  was  a  day  towards  which  the  inhabitants  of  this 
earth  might  truly  yearn. 
Think  of  our  world  today  with  its  tens  of  thousands  of  halt, 
and  lame,  and  blind ;  a  rough  estimate  of  the  fatalities  in  the  late 
war  is  ten  million,  and  the  wounded  will,  in  all  probability,  equal 
or  surpass  this  estimate.  Think  of  all  the  boasted  skill  of  the 
twentieth  century  striving  to  make  the  lame  to  walk  and  the 
blind  to  see  after  the  horrors  of  war.  Think  of  the  French^ 
whose  achievement  has  been  ,so  widely  proclaimed,  sitting  in  their 
art  studios,  day  after  day,  striving  to  make  the  soldier  made 
unsightly  and  repellent  by  the  ravages  of  war,  comely  and  natural. 
This  they  seek  to  do  by  means  of  a  thin  flesh  colored  mask,  which 
attempts  to  imitate  the  man's  photograph  when  he  was  whole  and 
sound.  Call  to  mind  the  hundreds  and  thousands  whom  shell 
shock  has  made  deaf,  and  those  whose  blindness  is  beyond  that 
of  the  most  skilled  physician,  and  others  whose  sovereign  reason 
is  like  sweet  bells  jangled  out  of  tune.  Think  of  us  now  in  the 
clutches  of  an  epidemic  that  is  baffling  the  medical  profession, 
and  making  orphans  of  htmdreds  and  thosuands  of  children.  It 
is  only  by  keeping  in  mind  our  own  very  sorry  plight  that  we 
realize  the  difference  in  these  two  pictures. 
In  the  one  we  have  the  Savior  of  the  world  standing  in  the 
midst  of  his  people,  with  his  .soul  full  of  love  and  his  bowels  full 
of  compassion,  saying,  "I  perceive  that  your  faith  is  sufficient, 
bring  unto  me  all  that  are  lame,  and  halt,  and  blind,  and  I  will 
heal  them ;"  and  they  brought  all  their  sick  and  afflicted  and  every 
one  was  made  whole. 
On  the  other  hand  we  have  a  world  strong  in  its  own 
strength,  wise  in  its  own  conceit,  self-seeking  and  unlovely  in 
many  of  its  practices,  reaping  according  to  that  which  it  has 
sown. 
Note  the  utter  completeness  of  the  work  of  the  Great  Healer. 
He  did  not  make  wooden  legs  for  the  lame,  nor  amputate  the 
hands  of  those  whose  hands  were  withered,  or  make  masks  for 
those  whose  faces  bore  unsightly  scars ;  nor  did  He  say.  Take  away 
your  lepers,  your  blind  and  insane,  for  I  can  do  nothing  for  them ; 
but  all  their  sick  were  made  whole.  In  the  light  of  this  knowledge 
may  we  not  rejoice  and  be  made  glad  that  he  has  promised  io 
come  again  with  healing  in  his  wings  ? 
Then  he  commanded  them  to  bring  their  little  children  arid 
place  them  near  him;  after  they  had  complied  with  his  request.

116  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
he  commanded  them  to  kneel,  and  when  they  had  knelt  he 
prayed  in  their  midst,  and  the  multitude  bore  record  of  this  prayer 
and  this  is  the  record  they  bore:  that  "the  eye  hath  never  seen, 
neither  hath  the  ear  heard,  before,  so  great  and  marvelous  things 
as  we  saw  and  heard  Jesus  speak  unto  the  Father ; 
"And  no  tongue  can  speak,  neither  can  there  be  written  by 
any  man,  neither  can  the  hearts  of  men  conceive  so  great  and 
marvelous  things  as  we  both  saw  and  heard  Jesus  speak;  and  no 
one  can  conceive  of  the  joy  which  filled  our  souls  at  the  time  we 
heard  him  pray  for  us  unto  the  Father." 
And  then  Jesus  arose  and  bade  the  multitude  arise,  and  lie 
wept  for  joy.  Afterwards  He  blessed  their  children ;  but  that 
story  is  part  of  another  lesson. 
What  we  wish  to  draw  special  attention  to  is  their  record  in 
relation  to  His  marvelous  prayer,  the  power  of  which  is  beyond 
mortal  comprehension. 
PROBLEMS   AND   QUESTIONS. 
-     1.     After  the  terrors  of  thunder  and  lightning  had  passed, 
what  did  Christ  do  in  the  midst  of  his  people? 
2.  What  does  Christ  sav  about  "other  sheep,"  in  IH  Nephi 
16? 
3.  What  did  Jesus  teach  the  people  in  relation  to  the  sacra- 
ment? HI  Nephi  18. 
4.  In  HI  Nephi  21,  Jesus  gave  instructions  concerning  the 
naming  of  the  Church.  What  did  he  tell  the  people  in  relation 
to  this  matter  ? 
5.  What  mighty  works  did  Jesus  perform  among  this  people, 
like  unto  the  mighty  works  He  performed  among  the  Jews  at  Jeru- 
salem ? 
6.  Were  any  afflicted  exempt  from  his  ministrations  ?  Com- 
pare the  divine  way  of  overcoming  sickness  with  the  human  way. 
7.  After  commanding  the  little  children  to  be  brought  un- 
to him,  what  did  Jesus  command  the  people  to  do  ?  What  did  he 
himself  do  ? 
8.  What  have  the  people  told  us  in  relation  to  this  prayer? 
9.  Are  their  comments  upon  this  prayer  what  we  should 
naturally  expect?    Why?

GUIDE  LESSONS.  117 
LESSON  II. 
Work  and  Business. 
Second  Week  in  March. 
LESSON  III. 
Genealogy. 
Third  Week  in  March. 
THE  ORIGIN  OF  ANGLO-SAXON  SURNAMES. 
Teacher's  Outlines. 
Teutonic  names  were  generally  compound  words.  (Illustra- 
tions). 
Name  customs  were  sometimes  founded  on  social  habits  and 
religious  impulses  by  Saxons. 
Anglo-Saxons  were  warriors  and  pagans. 
Children  were  named  for  their  pagan  deities. 
Children  were  often  surnamed  from  father's  trade. 
Angla-Saxon  names  were  included  in  William's  survey  re- 
corded in  Domesday.  These  were  the  small  land-holders.  Thi 
upper  class  named  there  were  all  Normans. 
LESSON  STATEMENT. 
We  learned  in  our  history  lessons  that  Great  Britain  was 
inhabited  first  by  semi-savages — with  the  Britons.  They  wor- 
shiped Nature  and  natural  phenomena  and  built  homes  in  the 
forests  and  woods.  The  Celts,  who  were  almost  as  uncivilized 
as  the  Britons  came  into  Ireland  and  then  over  into  Scotland  and 
Wales  particularly,  conquering  the  Britons.  Welsh  people,  how- 
ever, claim  descent  from  the  original  Britons.  The  Irish  and 
Scotch  came  from  the  Celts.  Then  came  the  Teutonic  tribes  of 
Angles  and  Saxons  and  they  conquered  and  settled  up  England 
driving  the  Britons  into  the  Welsh  mountains  and  keeping  the 
Celts  confined  in  Scotland  and  Ireland  for  some  centuries. 
Neither  the  Britons  nor  Celts  built  cities  or  even  villages, 
They  lived  in  the  most  primitive  huts  and  dugouts,  fighting 
each  other  and  living  by  hunting  and  fishing. 
When  the  Anglo-Saxons  came  in  they  grouped  themselves  in