[WomansExponent | Vol24 | 1895 | March | Issue: 20 | Title: WESTERN WILD’S. | Author: Unknown]

WESTERN WILD’S.

JUBILANT the song of progress!  That these
	western valleys sing;
Through the grand old mountain gorges clear
	triumphant echoes ring;
Mountain torrents swiftly leaping downward with
	resistless might,
Onward to the valley’s sweeping, shout, a chorus
	of delight;
Countless gushing, gurgling, streamlets, blend
	their harmonizing sound;
Caroling as if for gladness, while they scatter life
	around;
Fields of waving rip’ning cereals, answer to the
prayer oft said—
With such different depths of feeling, “give us
	Lord! our daily bread.” ’
Pastures green, and vine fill’d gardens, humming
	bees, and lowing kine,
Make this second land of Canaan, flow, with
	honey, milk, and wine;
Here and there in lovely lakelets sport and thrive
	the finny brood;
Furnishing fastidious fancies, with delicious,
	dainty food.
Marvels, ev’ry where surround’ us, gaze on yonder
	inland sea!
Broad expanse of liquid splendor, Utah’s crown-
	ing novelty!
Briny billows, flashing, foaming, with old ocean’s
	rise and swell
Into calmer moods subsiding, always weaving
	beauty’s spell;
Shining waves like glittering silver, mirror such
	resplendent skies—
Lo! The poet’s dreams elysian are reveal’d to
	wond’ring eyes
By the bracing mountain breezes, even sluggish
	souls are stirred;
Every where the hum of business, and of enter-
	prise is heard;
Lo! Where reigned primeval silence—desola-
	tion’s awful hush—
People thrive, and cities flourish, orchards bloom
	and roses blush;
Isolation’s veil is lifted, desolation’s day is o’er;
Western Wilds, so called for ages, are advancing
	to the fore.
Eastern empires will be waning, shaken by inter-
	nal jars,
While these “Western Wilds” will glitter in the
	galaxy of “Stars!”
Bright as orbs now at their zenith, that in glorious
	circuits run


Lo! The Western Constellation, shall be second
	unto none.
Hail! ye broad and fruitful valleys—in such robes
	of beauty drest;
Well the sunset’s golden glory typifies the gor-
	geous West;
Hail! unequalled Eldorado! region of surpassing
	worth;
Western Wilds, ye shall be noted, as the "Ophir”
	of the earth;
Freedom’s banner firmly planted, on the Western
	heights sublime—
Shall protect a prosp’rous people, gathered out
	of ev’ry clime.
