[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | July | Issue: 1 | Title: SPRINGVILLE'S SONG OF WELCOME | Author: Unknown]

SPRINGVILLE'S SONG OF WELCOME 

To the Veterans Visiting us June 18th, 1891.

	Tune—“Mandor.”
Vet’rans here we gladly greet you,
Welcome to our lovely town, 
We will try to entertain you  
With the very best we own.

You deserve consideration,
We make no partition w'all,

[Column 2]

And we wish on this occasion
Pure goodwill to show to all.
 
Gratefully we all remember 
  Honors that to you we owe,
You have passed the life’s December
 And our love we wish to show.

We would so reveal affection,
 While you stay with us today,
That from mutual recollection
It may never fade away.
 
When our mortal lives are ended, 
 When we pass to other spheres,
May our pleasure be extended
 Through unending happy years.
	WILLIAM CLEGG.
Prayer was offered by the chaplain, Bishop  
Packard.
	Hon. F. C. Boyer delivered an address of wel-
come; in which he praised the originators of the
movement and congratulated the visitors on the 
great harmony that existed even though there
were differences of views and opinions among 
them. He also read a welcome in verse written
by Lucretia H. Mower an aged lady of Spring-
ville.
	Pres. Geo.Q. Cannon who was called upon to re-
spond to the address of welcome, in the course of 
his remarks said that the honor paid to old age 
was a test of the civilization of a people an evi-
dence of their advancement. Expressed his 
pleasure in seeing religious and political differ-
ences banished for the time and all meeting as 
members of the great human family. Thought it
would indeed be a red letter day to the people of
Springville as well as the Old Folks, invoked
upon the assembly the blessing of heaven. 
Mrs. Lillie Boyer Gleason sang “Bring Back
the Old Folks,” she has a fine voice and excellent 
expression, her singing was very sweet and en-
joyable. The following address was then de-
livered by Mrs. Geo. E. Andersen, the lady has 
a full clear voice and forcible in tone and man
ner.
THE OLD FOLKS
	What memories cluster around this hallowed
name; the names of parents now with  us and
those departed to a better land ! They always
have the warmest corner in our hearts, the holiest
shrine in our memories.
	Our old folks, whom we honor today, from the
septuagenarian to those hoary locks crowned
with the star of a hundred years, where else upon
the broad earth can such a sight be witnessed?
Veterans from every clime,patriots from all lands,
here seated beneath the cool shade of Utah’s 
verdure, swept by the vivifying breezes from 
Utah’s grand mountains, bending above us the 
bluest of blue skies. Here co-mingling with each
other, is seen the type of many nationalities; the
sturdy Briton, who first saw the blue Albion vales 
the land of Shakespeare, Hampden and Crom-
well, coursing in their veins is the blood of the
Plantagenets, they have brought to our glorious 
America, and infused into our blood, that liberty
loving spirit so prevalent in the breasts of loyal
Americans. Some present here today first
breathed the air in bonnie Scotland, the land of
Scott, Livingstone and Burns, the home of the
blue bell and heather. Natives of Scandinavia
swell the ranks of our Old Folks’ party today,
the freedom loving spirit of the old Norsemen
burning in their veins; Denmark’s low sea girt
isle furnishes of her sons and daughters to make
up the numbers of our Old Folks’ jubilee. The
sons from the “ould sod” swell our numbers in
honor of this jubilee.
	Sunny France, classic Italy, romantic Spain
and many other nationalities are represented by
the Silver Grey veterans before us, honored
by all. We feel proud to do you honor; we look
to you as pioneers of human progress; it was


[Column 1]

﻿that spirit of liberty that brought you to our shores;
you have been upon the borders of civilization
most of your lives; to your efforts we owe our
grand mountain home; to you is due the credit
for the homes we enjoy. You who are crowned
with the star of a hundred years are almost as
old as that glorious flag which waves over our
heads. Today many of you can remember when
but thirteen stars graced its tri-colored folds, but
now it bears proudly forty-four stars, each repre-
senting a sovereign State; her colors stream
proudly in every clime, it is respected by all
nations; from Alaska’s ice bound shores to the
southern land of flowers it waves majestically
over a people free, independent and progressive.
Upon every sea it waves a token of free men, free
women and free institutions. From the Arctic
sea to the land of the southern cross, America’s
shipping, displays the Stars and Stripes. It is
flung free to every breeze and is emblazoned upon 
the crest of every surging billow. All of you are
older than the railway train which moves like a
rolling palace on its steel causeway, bringing you
in luxuriant comfort and ease to us today. All
of you have seen the old crooked snath, with its
two nibs and five fingers, give  place to that
chariot of progress, the mowing machine. In
your time the old hand loom has yielded to the
power fabricators of modern science, the flail and
threshing floor of scriptural times to the grand
steps of modern improvement. You have seen the
birch canoe and flat boat fade before the head-
light of the steamboat. In your day the Indian
trail and old emigrant road have been obliterated
by the railway track; the grassy plains for 2000
miles are transformed into fields and orchards,
cities and towns; and to you we give thanks for
these changes. May the residue of your lives be
one continual jubilee, and such a jubilee as only
your descendants know how to give. And when
you make your exit behind the curtain which
separates us from our veteran fathers and mothers
who have gone before, tell them of us and our
work, and determination to walk in the paths of
honor, truth and patriotism which they marked
out for us,—that when we have arrived at the
silver period of our existence we may be counted
worthy to be numbered with the Old Folks.
	The Old Folks, our Old Folks-dear
	We greet you all with kindly cheer,
	Our vales and mountains honor thee;
	To your grey hairs we bow the knee
	The only sovereigns to whom we bow
	We render willingly homage now,
	To Old Folks all we vote three cheers,
	And the honored crown of a hundred years.
			P. C. J.
	Music by the brass band followed the address
and Elder George Goddard made one of his
characteristic speeches and presented the oldest
veteran present, Father J. B. Lewis of this City,
aged 95, who was given three cheers by the as-
sembly. Mrs. Agnes Olsen Thomas rendered in
her own sweet way “The Old Folks at Home,”
she always charms with her melodious strains.
Dinner was next announced, and a sumptuous
banquet it was indeed; the good people of Spring-
ville were most generous in their hospitality, and
there seemed no lack of variety or abundance.
The handsome young people who served the
company were specially attentive and under the
delightful shade of the waving boughs, it was a
picture for an artist. The clouds rolled up and
thunder was heard in the distance and a soft
gentle rain began to fall, but it soon passed over
and the sun shone out again.
	After returning to the grove the band played
some lively airs and Moses Johnson recited a
humorous selection “The Old Tiner.” Elder W.
C. Dunbar whose singing always pleases every-
body,rendered the song written expressly for the
occasion by Elder Henry W. Naisbett, the choir
joining in the chorus:

[Column 2]

	For many a year now passed away,
		We've had this glorious treat.
	To spend with friends a summer’s day
		And glad each other meet!
	From quiet homes, not often left
		Because of weary years,
	By car or team and reil, so kept,
		That smiles oft turn to tears!
				CHORUS.
	Here's three-score ten and four-score years,
		Beyond this, quite a few,
	Who all enjoy their annual out,
		And thank their friends so true!

	We've Governors had and Judges too,
		As year by year hath fled;
	The Utah Centeral, U. P. now,
		in this good work long led;
	To-day upon the Rio Grande
		We take this looked-for spin;
	God bless this fresh and liberal hand,
		Which thus our hearts could win!–[Chorus; 
	Our Committee have toiled and tried,
		In every needed way
	To make our long or shorter ride,
		A grand high holiday!
	Their faces and their voices speak.
		In sympathetic tone.
	They're brethren, sisters for they seek
		The aged and the lone!—[Chorus.

	Then presents we have had, galore,
		From many a thoughtful hand,
	Who vied in giving, more and more
		Than Old Folks e’en could stand,
	Without a heartfelt prayer to God
		That such may e’er be blest
	With plenty on the earth's green sod,
		And then with Heaven’s own rest.—[Chorus.

	Since first the Old Folks found good friends,
		To give their time and means,
	'Tis deemed that neighbor love extends,
		Which everywhere redeems!
	And many a tired and patient soul
		Who at the first came out,
	Has reached the other shore, the goal
		With glad triumphant shout!—[Chorus

	We’re passing on with stumbling feet,
		Our ranks are breaking down. 
	New faces—badges hence will greet
		And wear the Old Folks’crown.
	They’ll have their friends, as we have had,
		While soul in Utah stirs;
	Her towns in rivalry make glad,
		These special guests of hers!

	Song hath its charm, and oft our choir  
		Have sung the old songs o'er;
	Now we can catch the same true fire,
		And join as ne'er before;
	God bless each one who lends a hand,
		To make this well known day.
	And when they’re old; may thousands stand
		With welcome and hurrahl—[Chorus.

	Brother Goddard and the Old Folks’ choir sang
“Hard Times,” and Bishop W. B. Preston ad-
dressed the old folks in a particularly happy man-
ner. The committee distributed some gifts, with
which they are always well supplied on such oc-
casions by the liberality of the public, to the aged
people of Springville. Brother C. R. Savage
held up a band-box and called out for an old
lady who had not had a new bonnot for ten years
but did not find one, then for five years etc., and
then for one who had to wash for her living, and
no one replied, so he presented the bonnet to the
old lady who had composed the poem that was
read in the morning— Lucretia H. Mower. Philo
Dibble, aged 85 well known in Mormon history
from having been shot through the body in the
times of the early persecutions of the Church,
was given a nice arm chair, also Sarah Parrish,
80; Matilda Streeper, 87; Hannah Shepherd, 78;
these were all invalids, and Anna E. Harper, 75;
dress patterns, fancy baskets with contents, china
ware, gloves, and collars, were given to other old
ladies of Springville; and canes, slippers, etc., to

[Column 3]

the gentlemen: Hannah M. Dibble, 82; James
M. Peirce, 77; Neman Bulkley, 74; Andrew
Larsen, 73; Eliza A. Mendenhall, 81; Hailey P
Averett, 76; Noah Packard, 80; Polly P. Childs, 
76; Orson Hulett, 76; Tobias Dallen, 85; Abram
Taylor, 73; Hannah Harrison, 73; James Wis-
combe, 76; Ann Bramall, 70; Charles Avery, 72;
Mary Ann Rayland, 82; Eliza Devenish, 72;
Agustus Cox, 74; Ann D. Bringhurst, 70; Lausen
Roundy, 73; Mary Snelson, 73; Mary A. Doug-
lass, 78; Rachel Spafford, 85; Martha Stephen-
son, 77; William Cranmer, 77; Jeduthan Averett,
75; Jacob McCurdy, 73; Eliza Deal, 75; Lucretia
H. Mower, 72; Benjamin W. Brindle, 73; Sarah
Brindle, 70; Mary A. Herbert, 73; Jacob Houtz,
76; Wm. Mendenhall, 76; Sarah L. Mendenhall
73; Harriet Kindred, 74; Wm. Giles, 70; Ann
Giles, 70; Margaret Parrish, 82; Cyrus Sanford,
76; Richard Bird, 70; Catherine Boyer, 74;
Edward Pentington, 71; Elizabeth Whiting, 77;
James Chadwick, 81; Cerina Johnson, 70; Hila
Nelson, 74; Joseph Allen, 73; Mary Ann Full-
mer, 75; Solomon Johnson, 74; Caroline John-
son, 71; Shephard Hutchings, 73; John Hatfield,
72; Jane James, 76; Hyrum W. Clark, 72. The
announcement was made by the Committee, that
the presents would be given to the aged people on
the train as they were returning home.
	President Wilford Woodruff spoke a short time,
he stated that in all his extensive travels he had never seen an assembly that impressed him so
forcibly and pleasantly, or made him feel better
than this assembly. He felt thankful that we
were alive and had been strengthened to endure
the vicissitudes through which we had passed,
and had been able to redeem this desert land, and
make it blossom as the rose.
	Pres. Woodruff spoke with reverential feeling
of the aged veterans and felt to appreciate the re-
spect shown to the Old Folks by the citizens of
Springville. The President is himself 84 years
of age, and so well preserved, that he shows none
of the signs of old age, either in his appearance,
his voice, or his walk, he walks as erect and firm
as a young man. There are few men in the world
at his age could speak as well, in fact there are
very few young men that can be heard so clearly
and distinctly in the large tabernacle, or in an
outdoor meeting as he can.
	Elder W. C. Dunbar amused the assembly very
much by playing his Scotch bag pipes. Brother
Goddard who has a remarkably clear voice for his
age sang “Maggie’s by my Side.” Elder C. R.
Savage spoke in his usual happy style, thanking
the Springville people and calling the place, the
Old Folks’ banner town, he thought the reception
surpassed any heretofore accorded the old folks.
The benediction was pronounced by Bishop
Packard, of Springville and the company began
to disperse, many going to the cars; others im-
proving the opportunity in conversing with old
friends, etc. The committee who had charge of
the affair at Springville were Nephi Packard, H.
M. Dougall, Don, C. Johnson, L.D. Franton and
F.C. Boyer.
	Elder Jacob Gates, now senior President of the
Seventies,stated that it was the anniversary of his
baptism into the Church, fifty-seven years before,
at St. Johnsbury, Caledonia Co., VL, by Elder
Orson Pratt, and that he was confirmed on the
same day by Orson Pratt and Zerubbabel Snow,
better known as Judge Snow. Brother Gates is
now over 80, hale and hearty, traveling and
preaching among the seventies, most of his
time.
	On the trip homeward there was more singing
by the Old Folks’ choir, more lemonade cakes,
candies, and oranges distributed, and suitable
presents given to all the Salt Lake Co., old folks,
and every one seemed pleased and satisfied with the
day;nothing having occurred to mar the enjoyment
of the happy occasion. The management of the
train was perfect, and the coaches were the finest


the old folks have ever had. The officials of the
Denver and Rio Grande Western Railway de-
serve special praise for their generosity, con-
sideration and attention. The Committee con-
sisting of Presiding Bishop Preston, Elders
Geo. Goddard, C. R. Savage, Wm. Eddington,
Wm. Naylor, W. L. Binder, John Kirkman and
Bishop Nelson A. Empey did everything possible
for the old folks and watched over them constantly
with tenderness and untiring vigilance.
	There were about nine hundred people on the
train, of these there were of those from 70- to 80-
235 men and 280 women, total 515; from 80 to 90,
42 men and 33 women, total 75; from 90 to 95,
there were four men and no women making in all
a total of 594; this does not include those in
Springville or Utah Co. Altogether it is a very
pleasant thing to be able once or twice a year to
bring together so many of those whose lives are
more or less lonely and monotonous; the care
and the happiness, of those who are descending
the hill of life ought to be considered, and this is
a beautiful custom inaugurated by this committee;
Brother Savage was the good angel who first
originated the idea which has been so well de-
veloped and perpetuated and has resulted in so
much enjoyment for this class of citizens for the
last sixteen years. All honor to the old folks and
to those who contribute to their happiness.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


