[WomansExponent | Vol20 | 1891 | July | Issue: 1 | Title: A HUNDRED YEARS OR SO | Author: Unknown]

A HUNDRED YEARS OR SO

Roll up the curtain, backward turn the wheels of time
One hundred years, or so ago, todays of "Auld Lang
	Syne"
Spinning-wheel and loom were the fashion of the day,
All the folks wore homespun and women raked the hay.
Mixed their bread in kneading troughs, yellow corn and
	rye,
Baked in huge brick ovens, with pudding, beans and
	pie,
Rich pumpkin pie, the golden crown of every feast,
And then; their famous dinners regular boiled dish,
Luscious vegetables of every kind then known
Corned beef, mutton, pork, fairly made the tables groan
Piled high on pewter platter three feet by four,
Generous mugs of cider could any ask for more?
Women milked the cows then at eventide and morn, 
Made the butter and the cheese, often hoed the corn,
Scrubbed the floors as white as snow, strowed them o'er
	with sand,
Skipped barefooted o'er the mead, Queen of all the land.
Made hats, bonnets too, cut straw from fields of rye,
Small time for dress parade, in those old days gone by,
Banged hair was then unknown, men only wore the cue,
Plaited ribbon bowed like our modern pigtailed crew,
Fun they had at "raisings", big jolly times, they say,
Men and boys the country round out for one whole day,
Some at "killing bees" hogs slaughtered by the dozens,
Portions sent to neighbors, uncles, aunts and cousins,
Huskings, quiltings, apple bees, work combined with
	sport,
There was where the old folds say, Cupid held his court.
Charming rides in winter time, over snow and sleet,
Wrapped in robes of buffalo, furnace at their feet.
Horses spirited and gay, bells deep merry chime,
Glad hearts beat in unison sweeping on in line,
After supper dance begins, hear the prompter call!
"Scotch reel" or "Money musk," "choose your partners 
all"
Huge pine knots light up the house tallow-dip or whale,
Homeward bound at dawning light, thereby hangs a tale.
Coachman four in hand or six, hero of the day,
Toots his horn, and cracks his whip, all must clear the
	way.
Sixty miles, a wondrous trip; passengers and mail
Shades of Ceaser! who then thought of riding on a rail?
In winter's drifting snows, to clear the road of school, 
Sturdy oxen beat the track, strong hands plied the tools.
Three months of summer, the same in winter taught,
Quite enough of teaching, our old grandparents thought,
The pupils Eden was the spelling match at night,
Crown of all their studies that gave them most delight,
Many there were mated—their legends tell us so!
They married then for love, one hundred years ago!
On oaken settles seated, fronting fires glow,
Toasting apples, cracking nuts, spinning flax or tow,
While their sires repeated deeds of volor done,
Clearing up the wilderness, making Redcoats run.
Rallying days they had—election came in May,

[Column 2]
Trainings,general musters, were all the go they say,
The glorous Fourth was'nt celebrated slow;
Earnest demonstrations made patriotism grow.
Every human creature the oldest to the babe,
Drank its inspiration, helped to swell the grand parade,
Then the cannonading, and. beacon fires glow,
Roused the whole creation, one hundred years ago.
"Our Fathers where are they?" who struggled on for years
Toiling for a country, 'mid blood and sweat and tears,
Sustained the declaration, only fought for right,
For God, for home and freedom, united in their might,
Firmly laid foundation, that liberty might grow,
Smile not now, in thinking their progress very slow
Of their sowing and reaping, sickle scythe, and flail,
While fleeing through the country; riding on a rail
Wondrons things have happened one hundred years now
	gone,
Quarrels and dissensions on Uncle Samuel’s farm.
Now the sheller and the reaper play an active part,
Then neither would been known from Noah's ancient ark,
Lightning speeding messages sent around the globe,
Great countries unknown then now opened and explored.
Steam power perfected and kingdoms overthrown;
Yet one thing is certain the world has not outgrown, 
Since the pair turned from Eden to toil, till and plan;
Old time has never faltered in reproducing man.
Still human nature lives tho' fashions come and go,
Query! has it improved, since one hundred years ago?
Roll down the magic curtain, we'll view the scene apart'
The question is before you; answer from the heart.
	L.M. Hewlings
	Atchinson, Kans.


[Column 1]
