Preparation for 1932-1933
In preparation for next season all our members should read Dr. Pack's address in the May Magazine, page 311. They will then find that the Doctrine and Covenants will be our text in the theological department next year. We suggest that all re-read this volume during the summer, marking passages that especially appeal, and paying attention to the special messages it contains for the people today. It would be well also to secure Erskine's The Delight of Great Books, reading it carefully, and as far as possible reading the books about which he has written chapters. We also recommend that our officers and members, as far as possible, secure the texts for the social service lessons, The White House Conference, 1930, and the pamphlets on Personality, Habits, and Growth. If these books which are to be used for our courses of study next year are read leisurely this summer, our officers, teachers, and members will have a splendid background for their lesson work. These books may be secured from the General Secretary, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah. The prices are: The Delight of Great Books, by John Erskine, $1.50, postpaid. The White House Conference, 1930, 50c, postpaid 60c. Booklet on Personality, Booklet on Habits, Booklet on Growth, 25c postpaid, for the complete set of three booklets.
Flag Day
The hopes and aspirations, the joys and sorrows, the romance and chivalry, of the human race are symbolized in flags. "We find their origin in Divinity itself, when Jehovah, after the Flood, unfurled in the heavens the first flag?the multihued banner of the rainbow?as a signal of danger passed, of safety assured.
"Mortal man, since that time, has in his humble, earthly way, used emblems and banners of various kinds to express his hopes, his ideals, his struggles, his accomplishments."?From The Flag of the United States, Its History and Symbolism, by Col. James A. Moss.
On June 14, 1777, the Continental Congress in Philadelphia adopted the following resolution: "Resolved, That the Flag of the United States be thirteen stripes, alternate red and white; that the union be thirteen stars, white in a blue field representing a new constellation." Changes were made before the flag as we have it today was decided upon. On April 4, 1818, Congress enacted the following law: "That on the admission of every State into the Union, one star be added to the union of the Flag; and that such addition shall take effect on the Fourth of July next succeeding admission."
The flag of the United States stands for freedom and equality. On June 14, 1777, when the flag was adopted, the act prescribed "that the union be thirteen stars, white in a blue field representing a new constellation," symbolizing stars in the heavens, a nation dedicated to personal and religious liberty, "signalling to mankind the birth of the first nation on earth dedicated to personal and religious liberty; a sanctuary to which men and women the world over, oppressed because of religious or other beliefs, might take refuge and enjoy 'Life, Liberty, and the pursuit of Happiness.'" Well may people with bared heads reverently bow in homage as the flag passes by. It is beautiful. It stands for so much. The sun never sets on the American flag?it waves over nearly four million square miles.
June 14th has been publicly observed in the United States as Flag Day, since 1897. This year 1932 a greater observance than usual is being given to Flag Day, June 14, because of the Washington Bicentennial. The American Flag Day Association have announced Flag Week June 12 to June 19. During this period all organizations civic, social fraternal and business are being asked to have a patriotic program with something pertaining to the history of the Flag and reverence for it. June 14, this year occurs on Tuesday, a regular Relief Society day, and the attention of all officers in charge in the several wards is therefore called to this matter. The General Board suggests that the Flag be displayed at the meeting.
To every loyal American there is no flag like the Stars and Stripes, and his heart beats ecstatically as he sees it unfurled. The Stars and Stripes should wave to the breeze on this day, not only from public buildings but from every home, for every true American loves his flag.