Jacob Van Ruysdael LANDSCAPE WITH A WATERFALL
Sentiment By Elsie Chamberlain Carroll
The other day I received a small check for a few lines I had written and sent to a magazine. It lay on my desk near bills for lights, telephone, gas. As I sat looking at it the laundry was brought to the back door. I picked up the check and started with it to pay the laundryman. Then I stopped, and laid it back upon the desk and went to my purse for the money. A little later I needed to pay a shoe-repairing bill. I started to endorse that check, hesitated and made the payment without it. For a week I carried the check about, and many times it would have served to pay for a small physical or temporal need or service. Why was it that I couldn't bring myself to give that piece of paper in payment for gas, or shoe-soles, or bread and milk? Simply sentiment. The lines that check represented had been a little bit of my soul. They had expressed the sacredness of a love, beautiful and cherished—and lost. I couldn't sell such a thing as that for bread. I must use that check for something that I could keep, something that would always recall the beauty and the sacredness of the thought which had bought it. Reason told me that this was foolishness; that I needed this and the other. But sentiment would not listen, and a new volume of fine poetry has been crowded upon my shelf.
A recent news story recounted the death of an old man who had lived alone for a long time in a dark basement room. Presumably he had died of hunger and cold, and yet there was found within the pocket of his ragged vest, together with a lock of hair and a miniature of a woman, a ring that would have brought him warmth and food for many months. Sentiment!
In a beautifully furnished room of a luxurious home, side-by-side with the finest designs of the most popular periods, is a battered old arm-chair of no design whatever. Friends of the owner of that magnificent home wonder why he keeps such a hideous antique to mar the beauty of a perfect room. Frequently one of them puts the question to him, and receives this answer: "I would part with every piece of furniture in this house before I would part with that old chair. My mother used to sit in that chair in an old log cabin and tend me and my eight brothers and sisters. It was around that old chair that I received the foundation for the things most worthwhile in life. It will always have an honored place in my home. It stands for my mother's love; for the prayers she taught me; for the principles of right and honor she instilled within me. It symbolizes the best that is in me." Sentiment!
I know of a great prima donna who goes home after standing in the glitter of the footlights bowing and smiling to the applauding people who have been thrilled by her voice, and takes a little worn shoe from a box of treasures and holds it against a damp cheek. I know of a great statesman who goes a thousand miles every year to visit an aged school teacher who years ago helped him safely over "fool's hill." I know, and you know, of scores of people who do apparently foolish things—who spend needless time and energy and money, because of sentiment. But aren't you glad they do those foolish things? Would you think as well of them if they didn't?
Many criteria have been given for the measurement of character. It is said that a man may be judged by the company he keeps, by the books he reads, by the way he spends his leisure time. May he not also be judged by the treasures he hoards? None of us would care much for a person who didn't cherish a few foolish keepsakes; or do unreasonable things because of sentiment. Of course this feeling may be carried to the extreme. It may be allowed to sap the vitality of life and purpose. It may even merge into that highly undesirable thing, sentimentality. But sentiment itself, deep and sincere, is an ennobling influence upon character. It keeps the world warm and bright. It keeps life clothed in the rosy garments of enchantment, and prevents it from being stripped and left nude and cold by the hands of reason.