The Wedding Gift By Coral J. Black Y husband's mother had M given the patchwork quilt to me for a wedding present. Girl-like I was dreadfully disappointed when I beheld its conglomerate ugliness. Publicly I smiled and offered a grudging "thank you," but privately I simply spilled bitter, outraged tears over the offending gift. Why, I asked myself, could Bob's mother not have given me her "Lone Star," a beautiful creation in pale yellow and black set in bright-toned blue? Only a single magnificent star, yet the eight points completely covered the bed and boasted five hundred and twelve blocks used in its construction. Or there was another, "The Lost Children," a queer pattern of gray and red triangles, its strange name resulting from as strange a circumstance; and what of her pretty "Log Cabin" made of silk scraps, or the "Grecian Braid;" or the "May Basket." Oh she had so many lovely quilts and then to have given me, Bob's wife, this, this —well, words were too weak to express my chagrin. The center was a square of tiny blocks scarcely an inch in diameter, and from this radiated more squares, each tier containing slightly larger pieces until |the outer border loomed resplendent in three inch blocks. There was no pretense at art, no careful selection of colors, no slightest hint of pattern, merely row upon row of tiny blocks sewn together. I folded the offending gift and placed it upon the springs under my mattress, never removing it except for an occasional airing. But I did like Bob's mother. She was a small jwhite-haired lady, whose every word and act bespoke a 'gentle heart and an innate refinement; moreover I knew she -was genuinely fond of me and what more potent reason does one person need for loving another? Often she visited us and upon several different occasions I noticed her kindly brown eyes observing me, as I spread jup my pretty bed, as though searching for something she failed to ifind, and once she asked, "Marie, where is the quilt I gave you, don't you care for it?" I could not hurt her and a quick lie rose to my lips, "Oh yes, indeed I do, Mother, but Iam far too careful of it to use it every day." I know I must have looked as guilty and shamed as II felt and it seemed to me those steady brown eyes were reading my very thoughts, but she never mentioned it again. A year later Bob's Aunt Eunice came to visit us. Put to the necessity of making an extra bed I took the gift quilt from its hiding place and spread it on the davenport, carefully concealing its brazen ugliness beneath a satin spread. But Aunt Eunice, after weighing the covers, decided there were more than she cared for and folded back the 'heavy spread. A cry of delight escaped her lips as her gaze rested upon that quilt. "Rella's lovely 'History Quilt!' How do you come to have it?" "Bob's mother gave it to me for a wedding gift," I explained, "do you really think it pretty?" Some of the amazement I felt 362 must have been mirrored in my face, for Aunt Eunice smiled and drew me down beside her on the davenport. "TI did not say 'pretty' Marie, I said 'lovely' and it is all of that and more. Bob's mother is not pretty but you would not demur if the term lovely were applied to her." "Indeed I would not,' I agreed hastily. '"Bob's mother is the loveliest woman I have ever known, for you know, Aunt Eunice, I never saw my own mother." Aunt Eunice' responded with a gentle pressure. "I am glad you feel that way, and believe me, dear child, she is worthy of your deepest admiration." "T'm 'surprised,' she 'continued after a moment, "that Rella never told you the history of this wonderful quilt, but since she has not, I shall." Aunt Eunice arose, removed the spread, and straightened the quilt. "Marie, there isn't a block in this quilt but has a story of its own, except where there may be several blocks of the same material. "This little square in the center is a left-over block from a quilt our mother pieced just before she died. Rella conceived the idea of using it as a center to preserve it and of adding other choice bits to it. When we crossed the plains Rella was ill and unable to walk, as most of us did, so she sat in the wagon propped up with pillows and sewed on her quilt. These next four borders were made during that journey and every scrap of cloth in them was given to her by some member of the wagon train." "This light blue cashmere was given to her by sister T— who died a few days later and was buried in the wilderness with her infant on her breast—these small pieces of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE white albatross were from _ that baby's dress."' Aunt Eunice's voice grew gentle and her eyes retrospective as she added, "I can see Rella yet, as she stitched the tiny squares together, her lips trembling with emotion and great tears welling from her eyes. "This striped collonade was from Rella's wedding gown and this polkadot from my own," Aunt Eunice laughed and pointed to a piece of heavy gray silk, "quite different to the wedding gown our mother wore. But you must remember we were pioneers, while she was the only daughter of. A wealthy Southern Planter. "This queer piece of goods— Persian effect—they call it now, was from some curtains Mother once had. Rella said the little figures looked like worms and always insisted on calling it the 'worm cloth.' "This gray twill is a piece from your Bob's first suit-—it was made from a skirt of his mother's, and this from the dress he was christened in. "This," Aunt Eunice laughed gayly, "is from a patch Rella once put on the front of a dress, when a very small girl. She tore the entire front out of a new dress—a great disaster in those days, and Mother made her patch it. It took days of arduous work and of course the dress could never be worn again, but she 'always cherished that {patch more, I believe, than any other piece she had. After we came to Utah it became quite a fad with Rella to collect scraps for her quilt. It grew very slowly, for each piece must be worthy the place allotted it. This entire row, all four sides, are pieces from the wedding gowns of our friends. This corn-colored cashmere was Rella's best dress for THE WEDDING GIFT 363 several years, changing from cornso priceless a possession, tears rose color to brown and then to black as_ to my eyes. It had indeed become the years passed. I've heard her lovely to me. Express regret, many times, (that I put my arms around Aunt she had not kept a relic from each Eunice and gave her a regular bear of its varying existences. Hug. "This piece of homespun plaid is "Oh thank you, Aunt Eunice, for from the dress she cic the night such a wonderful hour, for telling she became engaged to Bob's father. Ine why I should cherish this quilt! This entire row is made of bits from yo, ashamed I am to have slighted dresses worn by Evelyn, her only daughter, who died at fifteen. "But dear me, child, it's ten o'clock and it would take me the rest of the night to give you the history of each piece." While Aunt Eunice had been talking a startling change had taken place in that despised quilt. It seemed to unfold before my eyes like a rose bursting into bloom. When I considered the many years those tender hands had stitched upon it and the great love which had prompted her to part with so priceless a possession, tears rose to my eyes. It had indeed become lovely to me. I put my arms around Aunt Eunice and gave her a regular bear hug. "Oh thank you, Aunt Eunice, for such a wonderful hour, for telling me why I should cherish this quilt! How ashamed I am to have slighted Mother's gift, how unappreciative she must think me." "I don't I believe you cared so much for it, did you?" and Aunt Eunice pinched my arm playfully. "Really, I didn't like it, I confessed, "I could hardly 'bear to look at it, but now I see it is lovely because of its associations. I shall never rest until I know the history of every single block and I shall call it my Treasure Quilt." Aunt Eunice smiled at me with deep understanding in her eyes. Nancy Lou By Nona H. Brown Nancy Lou! Nancy Lou! Is the name, dear, for you Wee round head, eyes of blue, Tiny, sweet, Nancy Lou. Nancy Lou! Nancy Lou! Happy through the years with you, Praying God to keep you true, My own, wee, Nancy Lou! Father, my thanks for this new day Give me strong hand, clear eye to see That all I write upon its page May show the love I have for thee.