Side Lights on the Book of Mormon By John Henry Evans
V—INFLUENCE OF THE RECORD
While the Book of Mormon was being set up at the printer's in Palmyra, there came into the office one day a young man about thirty years old. "I'm looking for someone," he said, "who can give me some information about a book that was revealed by an angel and that is being printed here."
Martin Harris happened to be in the printing office just then, and the stranger was referred to him.
"My name is Marsh," the stranger explained—"Thomas B. Marsh. I was on my way from Charleston, Massachusetts, to my old home in New York, when I heard that an angel had appeared to one of your townsmen and made known to him a book of plates. What about it?"
Martin Harris took Marsh to the Smith home in Manchester, where they found Oliver Cowdery. Oliver told him the strange story, so that he got it firsthand. Returning some time later to the printer's, Marsh was given sixteen pages of the book that was to be. This he took home with him, reading it on the way and pondered over what he had been told. He believed what he had read and what he had been told about the book; and when he related the story to his wife and read to her the sixteen pages, she, too, believed. Later Thomas B. Marsh, with his family, moved to New York, was baptized, and, when the first quorum of apostles was organized, became its president.
In September, 1830, a youth of twenty-three came to Fayette, New York, where the Church had been organized five months before. He was from Ohio, and was a preacher in the Campbellite church. For some reason, unknown even to himself, he made a journey of several hundred miles, with his wife, to New York, where his father's family lived. On his way there he stopped off to see some friends. Here he came across a strange book, called the Book of Mormon. He was told that this book had been revealed by an angel to Joseph Smith, and been translated by him from some gold plates. This interested him very much, for he believed in angels and revelation, and had often wondered about the origin of the American Indians. So he read the book eagerly. And, what is more, he believed it, and made up his mind to pay a visit to the young man who had been so highly favored of God. Thereupon he sent his wife on to his folks and went himself to Fayette. Here he was baptized. This youth was Parley P. Pratt, who afterwards became an apostle in the Church.
Not long after this Elder Pratt, with others, went on a mission to the frontiers in Missouri, to preach the new message to the Indians. He took with him copies of the Book of Mormon. One of these he left at the home of a man named Carter, who lived out some distance west of Kirtland, where the missionaries had converted more than a hundred people. Carter read the Nephite Record, believed it, went to Kirtland, was there baptized and ordained an elder, and, returning to his home town, converted sixty persons.
Out from Boston lived a practicing physician by the name of Willard Richards. This was in 1835. He had heard that somewhere in the West a young man named Joseph Smith had found a gold Bible. But he had paid no attention whatever to the rumors about the Prophet and about the people who believed in him. One day he visited his cousin, Lucius Parker. It happened that Brigham Young had left at the Parker home a copy of the Book of Mormon. Dr. Richards, on seeing the volume lying on the table, picked it up and began to read it. After reading half a page, he exclaimed: "Either God or the Devil has had a hand in the making of this book, for man never wrote it!" Twice over he read the book, and that within ten days. And he believed it to be true. Pretty soon, after arranging his affairs, he moved to New York State, joined the Church, and became an active worker in the new organization. At different times he was private secretary to the Prophet and counsellor to President Young.
That is what the Book of Mormon did for these three men. And what it did for them it has done for tens of thousands of others—men and women. Aside from the Bible itself no book has so greatly influenced the lives of people as the Book of Mormon. Other books there are, of course, that have influenced human life. Some of them have created revolutions in the world of thought and action. Darwin's Origin of Species has done that. But the influence of such books has not been directly, as a rule, through the reading of them by the masses, but rather indirectly through the speech and writings of men who had studied them, through the wide dissemination of the ideas they contain. But the influence of the Book of Mormon has often been direct on the masses. Men and women have read it by the hundreds of thousands, and been remade by its powerful words and story. And this has been going on for a hundred years in all the civilized nations of the globe.
It is written, not in the learned words of the scholar, but in the common vernacular of the people. In its pages are the things that the masses can understand, because they are the things and the ideas they themselves have experienced in one form or another.