Cell Intelligence By Dr. L. A. Stevenson
One hundred years ago Joseph Smith, "The Prophet Teacher," gave an inspired principle regarding the spirit of man. He made the announcement that the spirit of man is pure and refined matter, indestructible, eternal and in the form of the body in which it lives: that it had pre-existed as an intelligence, that it is the vital force in mortality; that it would live after death; and in due time it would unite with an immortal body in a resurrected state. It would continue on eternally in growth 'and development far beyond human comprehension. Such a thought, one hundred years ago, had not been conceived, or embodied, in the teachings of science. Today some of our leading authorities on scientific and vital problems of life are thinking and writing about this subtle "something" which motivates cell functional activity. Force, energy, intelligence, and spirit, can be used interchangeably without altering the meaning in this discussion. It is not unreasonable to contend that if intelligence can be shown in the processes of the cell life cycle, there must be at work some form of energy. 'And to admit that energy is present, even as a manifestation of spiritual activity, we admit we are dealing with indestructible and eternal matter. Spirit is a pure refined matter. A law irrevocably decreed by God is that no matter can be destroyed, and science demonstrates and confirms this fact. This discussion will of necessity deal with some scientific facts, but the wonderfulness of cell intelligence, as manifest in the complex processes of life justifies some details in pointing out the fact that there is something more potential than chance in this problem of life. HIS is a wonderful house in which we live, created in the image and likeness of 'God. Every living cell is vitalized by a refined, pure, directing and intelligent force, the sum total of which is the spirit of man. A cell may be defined as a tiny mass of living and functioning matter, either living alone, as for example the amoeba, or forming a unit of building material of a living thing or body. The cell is above all else, an organism. In an individual composed of billions of cells we know that the aggregate of cells transcends the unit of its structure. The size and shape of cells vary greatly. 'The smallest hardly visualized by the most powerful microscope, while others are large enough to ibe seen by the unaided eye, the size varying with the function it performs. If a cell is to function as a storehouse of nutriment for a growing embryo it is of necessity relatively large. Ifacellis to function as an animated telegraph wire connecting one remote part of the organism with another, it needs to be much elongated. The typical cell is spherical, but cells of the body wary in size and shape according to their bodily environments, pressure, location, and specialized function. 338 The body is composed of cells, tissues, organs and systems. Tissue cells are aggregate of similiar cells performing similar functions. Organs are parts of the body having a special function, and a system is a set or series of parts or organs which unite in a common function. In all the cell is the structural unit. The essential cell structure is composed of a nucleus, chromosomes, protoplasm cell wall, and a vital something called life or cell intelligence. ELL intelligence is so subtle, so pure, so refined, that it has never been seen, measured, weighed, or analyzed. To the modern scientific RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE laboratory though equipped with its instruments of precision, and specially trained workers, life is still a mysterious force too elusive for study. The chief difficulty experienced in studying life whether in the chemical or biological laboratory is that as soon as living protoplasm is seriously disturbed life separates from it. The invariable association of protoplasm with life has led to a general belief that life is in some way related to it. Protoplasm with its life is said to be irritable. It also has power to contract and move. 'Protoplasm can digest food, breathe, and throw off waste material, and above all it can Illustration No. 1—Reproduction of Cells by mitosis. Diagrams: A, resting cell c. Central body divided. B, Prophase (early) a, asters. C, Prophase (later). D, Prophase (final). E. Metaphase each chromosome splitting lengthwise. F, Anaphase, the daughter sets of chromosomes 'moving, toward the asters. G, Telephase (early). H. Telephase (later) CELL INTELLIGENCE reproduce itself, that is form other matter like itself. Reproduction of cells by mitosis is so complex, so intelligent, and so wonderful that it should have special mention and illustration. In plant, animal, and human cell division there are universal characteristics, but considerable difference exists as to details, the process becoming more and more complex as we approach human life. Four processes in mitosis have been distinguished, by the microscope. They are termed phases. (1) The prophase, including all the events beginning with the first steps in division of the central body and culminating in the stage where the chromosomes lie in equilibrium in the equatorial place; (2) the metaphase, the stage in which the chromosomes are longitudinally Typical Le// Oe) split and 'begin to separate into half chromosomes; (3) anaphase, the steps during which the half chromosomes travel toward the opposite poles of the spindle; and (4) the telephase during which the cytoplasm of the cell divides to form two daughter cells, and two chromosome groups are reorganized in the so-called resting nuclei. The equivalents of the original nucleus we started out with. And thus we have rounded out the cycle. CELL arrangement and cell differentiation next to cell division is most intelligent and wonderful. In the very early embryonic life cells, by a, power, unknown to science, arrange themselves into a body known as the blastoderm. The blastoderm is made up of three layers (1) the Epiblast is the outmost of the three layers. From it are developed the epidermis and epidermal tissues, such as the nails, hair, and glands of the skin, the nervous system, the external senseorgans, as the eye, ear, etc., and the mucous membrane of the mouth. (2) The mesoblast is the middle of the three layers of the early embryo. From it are developed the skin, connective tissues, bones, muscles, organs of excretion, and internal genitals. (3) The hypoblast is the innermost of the layers of the blastoderm. From it are developed the epithelium of the alimentary canal and of the organs connected with it and that of the air passages. Nerve Groupe of Cells  Stratified Epithelium Taste-Cells Olfactory Cells Illustration No. Z2—Cell Differentiation. 340 THE intelligence of cell differentiation is remarkable. As cells enter into formation of organs and systems, they undergo characteristic changes in size and morphology to meet the various functional demands of the body. In operations the surgeon depends upon this uniformity of nature and is never deceived. The pathologist, with the microscope, can identify the structure or organ from which a minute specimen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE is taken. He can also state whether the tissue is normal or diseased. Three well known scientific men » recognized the world over for their original investigations and contributions on vital problems of life have expressed themselves on the subject of cell intelligence as follows: Dr. Geo. W. Crile, of Cleveland, Ohio, said, "Life is an electro-chemical mechanism, every cell of the body is a small battery and as long as the electro-chemical processes are active the body lives. When these processes cease the body is dead. Life depends upon functional activity." Dr. Mayo, of Rochester, Minnesota, commenting on Crile's theory of life, said, "He is correct as far as he has gone, but there is something more in life than an 'electro-chemical mechanism.' Every living cell manifests an intelligence so refined and elusive that we cannot find it in our chemical or biological laboratories." Dr. W. W. Keen, of Philadelphia, writes, "In our prenatal life as I have shown in my paper on a World of Billions, our bodies always begin in one fertilized cell. This quickly
Hypoblast
Mesoblast
Epiblast
Blastoderm
Illustration No. 3—Cell Arrangement.
CELL INTELLIGENCE
divides into two cells, then four, eight, sixteen, etc., so that in a short time there are millions of cells. Chance could never have developed in such an orderly manner in every plant, animal and human embryo. It is a wonderful evidence of the power and wisdom of God." Very early they begin to differentiate by unknown cause, but always in the same way in the millions of babies born every year. How wonderful is this power of differentiation. It was implanted in these rapidly growing and changing cells by the Creator, God. Step by step these men have built up a complete thought on the spiritual life of man, which agrees in detail with the inspired teachings of the prophet a century ago. Joseph Smith made no claim as a scientist, but testifies that he did receive inspiration from on high.
In conclusion and brief summary, (1) It is agreed that life is a vital, intelligent, potential force existing in every living cell. (2) That this intelligent something has not been created or discovered in the chemical or biological laboratories. (3) None of these authorities deny its existence, "nor affirm that things beyond human comprehension cannot be," but to the contrary are very emphatic in affirming cell intelligence, and Dr. Keen bears testimony of its divine origin and existence. (4) If it were possible to separate and see cell intelligence, the sum total cell intelligence would be in the exact likeness of the mortal body from which it separated. (5) "That which is spiritual being in the likeness of that which is temporal; and that which is temporal in the likeness of that which is spiritual." D. & C. 77:2. (6) "Now the Lord had shown unto me Abraham, the intelligences that were organized before the world was. And God saw these souls that they were good." (7) "There is no such thing as immaterial matter. All spirit is matter, but it is more fine or pure, and can only be discerned by pure eyes. We cannot see it; but when our bodies are purified, we shall see that it is all matter." D. & C. 131:7-8. (8) Cell growth, cell organization, cell division, cell differentiation, and cell function, are processes, so complex, so intelligent, and so wonderful that chance could never have developed such a wonderful house as this in which we live. (9) There is no reason why one should not believe as firmly in the immortality of the soul as in the mortality of man's body. (10) To think that chance, instead of an all powerful Creator, could produce such results is an absolute impossibility, an absurdity. (11) One who has observed expression in life and the loss of it in death has been impressed with the indescribable changes manifested, the loss of all that made for living personality. Expression is as changeful as the clouds, that move in a mysterious majesty across the surface of a summer's sky. One who has watched the pattern mechanism and purposeful physiological processes in all their complexity in life, one who has felt the powers of intellectuality and efficiency and can find no satisfactory explanation for them, one who has watched death take away from the human body expression, mental and physical activity, and leave the body cold in the embrace of death, can believe as firmly in the immortality of the soul as in the mortality of man's body.