[Vol5 | January 1918 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Home | Title: Home Science Department Janette A. Hyde]

Hyde, representing the National Woman's Relief Society; Mrs. A. J. Gorham, representing the Woman's Clubs; Miss Rena Maycock, Extension Division of the Agricultural College; Miss Gertrude McCheyne, Home Demonstrator for the Agricultural College.

The special duty of this committee was to plan and supervise the practical conservation educational work undertaken by the Food Conservation Committee of the State.

Educational Features.

The first activity was the formation of resolutions which were read and adopted at the Conservation Convention while copies were printed in all the daily papers and distributed broadcast. The Relief Society organizations throughout the State  the Neighborhood Society, the Woman's Literary Club and other organizations unanimously adopted and sustained these resolutions.

The next great project was registration of the Utah women through the Hoover cards which necessitated active operation by the different conservation committees throughout the state, already organized for the conservation work. Seventy-five thousand cards were thus printed and distributed; 49,473 of these were signed and returned; 700 were sent directly to Washington; 250 were signed for the Hoover insignia and button, making a total of 50,423 housewives who signed the cards. No woman whom we asked to take part in this great task refused assistance. The greater part of the work was accomplished in about three weeks' time, in spite of the blistering summer heat prevailing at the time, many of our women having to travel from ten to twenty-five miles to distribute the cards. Practically all of the work was done through the complete and long-established machinery of the Relief


Society. This active movement was greatly augmented by personal conversations carried on during the Hoover campaign.

Practical Activities.

The next step was establishing centers in the school buildings where the women could be taught both theoretical and practical demonstration work. The State committee co-operated with the City committee and were assisted financially by the City Commission and the City and State Councils of Defense. Seven working centers were put into active operation with seven trained demonstrators in charge.

A canning center was operated in connection with a municipal citizen's market that had been opened through the agitation and untiring effort of the Woman's Conservation Committee.

Lessons were given on the following subjects: Food Preservation, Food Values, Food Waste, Milk, Cereals, Meat, etc. In each center separate groups of women assembled at different hours and followed the outlined course. Fruit and vegetables were canned by the thousands of bushels. Considerable fruit was put up for the Red Cross and the Orphans' Home and Day Nursery.

A Community Kitchen was established in connection with the Municipal Market, and demonstrations were here given two hours each morning. This central place enabled women to draw their fresh supplies from the Market, and the surplus left over from each day's marketing was carefully preserved. During the three months, 30,000 ears of corn were dried and 50,000 jars of fruit were bottled. The services of the women were given freely in this kitchen with the exception of one paid demonstrator.

At the close of the season, exhibitions were held in three prominent business offices in Salt Lake City, as well as at the State Fair, where the following bulletins and milk maxims were distributed to the crowds who flocked there: Bulletins, 15,000; Food Thrift series, 2,500; Farmers' Bulletins Drying Fruits and Vegetables, 3,000; Agricultural College leaflets, 5,000; Milk Maxims, 3,000.

At the different centers where a tabulation was kept, an attendance of 5,000 was noted, women reached by indirect sources, 3,000; personal conversations and telephone calls, 1,288. This would not include, however, the great amount of unsupervised and unrecorded work which was carried on throughout the State. In eight counties not including Salt Lake county, trained demonstrators were working in connection with the Agricultural College and the Relief Society, twenty counties being left to the supervision of untrained, practical help. It is certain that the amount of fruit conserved this year has quadrupled the output of any previous year's record.