[Vol5 | January 1918 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Poem | Title: Cecelia (A Poem) Alfred Lambourne]
Alfred Lambourne.

Unusual Mothers.

MARY ANN FINCH.
MOTHER OF SEVENTEEN CHILDREN.

Mary Ann Finch is a resident of Goshen, Utah. She was born in Brownage, Staffordshire, England, September 11, 1856. She embraced the gospel and came to this country alone at the age of fifteen years. She was married to Hyrum Finch, in 1875, by President Joseph F. Smith, and is the mother of seventeen children, fifteen having grown to manhood and womanhood. This is indeed a remarkable family, all being staunch Latter-day Saints

MRS. MARY ANN FINCH.

and good, honest men and women. One son is at present on a mission in the Central States, one is president of the Religion Class of Tintic stake, one is first counselor to the bishop of Goshen, and another one joined the navy. A daughter is president of the Relief Society of Tintic stake, and nearly all hold some minor offices in the Church. Sister Finch is a teacher in the Relief Society; has the best of health, and is ever willing with her service in sickness or trouble. It can in truth be said that she is indeed an unusual mother.


EVALINE DUNN HUNSAKER.
MOTHER OF SEVENTEEN CHILDREN.

The subject of this brief sketch is certainly an unusual mother. Great has been her mission here on earth and well and faithfully has she performed the same. Evaline Dunn was born September 12, 1853, in Brigham City, Utah, her father Simeon A. Dunn being one of the first settlers of Brigham City, and who lived in the Old Fort together with President Lorenzo Snow and others. Her mother was Harriet Atwood Silver who joined the Church in Lowell, Mass., and leaving all her family and friends for the gospel's sake she went to Winter Quarters where she met and married Simeon A. Dunn. They emigrated to Utah in 1848. Seven children were born to them  three sons and four daughters, viz., Sarah S., Simeon A., Emaline and Evaline (twins), Charles Q., Harriet and Henry who were also twins. Harriet Atwood Silver Dunn died Jan. 1, 1858, leaving her seven children without a mother's care. Evaline was only four years old at the time of her mother's death. She with the other children were left to the care of their father and his older sister (Susannah Dunn), whose mother was

MRS. EVALINE DUNN HUNSAKER AND HUSBAND.

UNUSUAL MOTHERS 21

also dead, and who was only fourteen years of age when these little brothers and sisters were left to her care. In the midst of poverty, the hard times and privations incident to the early pioneer life in Utah, the children  all young  were subjected to a life of hardship that may be imagined only by persons acquainted with such scenes.

On Oct. 5, 1868, in the Endowment House, Salt Lake City, Evaline was united for time and for eternity to Allen Collins Hunsaker. Soon after her marriage, she moved with her husband to Honeyville, where they lived for about eleven years, when they settled in Elwood, Utah, being among the first settlers and again pioneering a new country. Her husband was a farmer and sheep man. He was presiding elder of the branch for over ten years and always received encouragement and help from his wife.
