[Vol5 | January 1918 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Guide | Title: Guide Lessons]
Guide  Lessons. 
LESSON  I. 
Theology  and  Testimony, 
First  Week  in  February. 
WOMEN  OF  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON. 
(Home  Reading:  H  Nephi,  Jacob,  Omni,  Jafom,  Words  of 
Mormon.) 
"And  ve  shall  know  the  truth,  and  the  truth  shall  niakg  voi-i 
free"  (John  8:32). 
These  words  of  scripture  find  marvelous  verification  in  the' 
case  of  the  Hebrew  woman  from  whom  the  woman  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon  is  in  realitv  descended.  From  the  first  word  of 
histor}^,  found  in  the  Bible,  to  the  Greek  historian  Herodotus, 
down  to  the  great  Italian  Ferrero,  who  has  written  almost  the  last 
word  on  this  subject,  historians  are -agreed  that  the  status  of  the 
Hebrew  woman  as  to  personal  liberty  was  far  above  that  of  any 
other  of  her  sex,  at  a  corresponding  period.  Even  the  Egyptian 
vv'oman,  who  enjoyed  greater  privileges  than  most  other  women  of 
her  time,  had  no  liberty  that  approached  the  liberty  the  Hebrew 
woman  enjoyed. 
Contrast  the  personal  liberty  of  Rebekah.  the  gallantry  of 
Isaac,  the  personal  liberty  of  Rachel  and  Ruth,  with  the  fate  of 
the  Greek  woman,  who  was  plotted  against,  and  stolen  at  night 
by  men  who  wished  to  possess  her ;  or  the  Roman  woman  who 
had  no  legal  rights,  but  who  might  be  sold  as  a  slave  by  her 
husband. 
The  Mosaic  law  made  the  chastity  of  women  imperative ;  the 
Greek  custom  made  chastity  an  impossibility.  The  Hebrew 
woman  mingled  with  men  in  their  gatherings  and  went  before 
them  to  war  with  song  and  dance,  and  was  sometimes  a  judge  in 
Israel  as  was  Deborah.  The  life  of  the  Greek  woman  was  the 
life  of  the  harem. 
Now  this  superior  liberty  enjoyed  by  the  Hebrew  woman 
came  as  an  inheritance  to  the  woman  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  by 
\'irtue  of  her  descent  from  that  people. 
Only  three  women  are  mentioned  by  name  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  The  words  "woman"  and  "women"  occur  about  forty- 
seven  times  in  all,  and  a  goodly  number  of  those  references  are