RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Vol. XIV MARCH, 1927 No. 3 

Ode to Aunt Eliza R. Snow Maggie Ivins Bentley 107
Seventeenth of March Frontispiece
The Relief Society Alfred Osmond 109
Portrait of Dr. Valeria H. Parker
Dr. Valeria H. Parker
Women Legislators
Editorials—Did the Charter Members Dream it? 119
Honorable Treasurer—Mrs. H. F. Sanford—International Council of Women 120
Commendable Initiative
An Important Visitor
Tribute to the Great Women's Organization Kershaw N. White 122
Narvik and Bergen May Booth Talmage 123
Nurse who Attended Eugene Field
Grandmother Margaret's Slippers Evelyn Elder 134
Just a Looker-on 136
Song of the Wind Rebecca S. Wetzel 138
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman 139
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123
Only Genuine TRAUB Engagement and Wedding Rings bear this Trade Mark
Demand the famous Orange Blossom Wedding and Engagement Rings—and look for the sign of quality.
BOYD PARK, Jeweler, 166 MAIN ST.
SEE SAN FRANCISCO ON YOUR WAY TO SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA VIA SOUTHERN PACIFIC LINES
TO LOS ANGELES AND RETURN BOTH WAYS VIA SAN FRANCISCO $50
TO LOS ANGELES VIA SAN FRANCISCO RETURNING DIRECT OR ROUTE REVERSED $58.00
PROPORTIONATELY LOW FARES FROM ALL OTHER POINTS IN UTAH, IDAHO AND MONTANA. STOPOVERS ALLOWED AT ALL POINTS. TICKETS ON SALE DAILY. FINAL RETURN LIMIT 8 MONTHS FROM DATE OF SALE
For complete information, tickets and reservations, call, write or phone
PRESS BANCROFT, GENERAL AGENT
41 SOUTH MAIN STREET SALT LAKE CITY
PHONES WASATCH 3008—3078
PRICES FOR SPRING
50 Flat Weave $.90
52 Fine Ribbed Cotton 1.35
56 Med. Ribbed Cotton, unbl. 1.75
58 Heavy Ribbed Cotton, unbl. 2.00
64 Fine Lisle 1.95
These are our best selling Numbers and can be made in either Old or New Style. Samples furnished on request.
142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST.
KEELEYS ICE CREAM
Special Sunday Bricks 50c—Special Package Bricks 30c-50c
CALL YOUR KEELEY DEALER
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
EXPRESS STRIPE OVERALLS
Guaranteed For Quality, Fit and Service.
A neat appealing garment for the Store Clerk, the Flour Mill Operator, the Dairyman, the Garage Man, the Teamster.
None Too Large None Too Small
An Overall with a Classy Appearance
WHY YOU SHOULD HAVE A "Registering" GULBRANSEN PIANO IN YOUR HOME!
Sold On Easy Terms
It makes the home more attractive.
It lessens the lure of the Theatre and Dance Hall.
It plays music that Father and Mother love to hear.
It registers your touch just like hand playing.
It is nationally priced.
It is within reach of everybody's pocketbook.
$450, $530, $615, $700
Write In For Catalogue
Glen Bros.-Roberts Piano Co.
Ogden Pocatello Salt Lake City Idaho Falls
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Have you yet had your Delightful Free Ionaco Treatment?
Why put off any longer, learning more about this remarkable electromagnetic device? Find out for yourself whether Ionaco will bring you the relief it brings to others. It is a simple test and will cost you nothing. The treatment itself is a delightful experience. Ten or fifteen minutes and you feel as if you had a new lease on life. Remember, these treatments do not cost you a single penny. Hundreds of doubters have skeptically made these tests, and have gone away singing the praises of this remarkable discovery. Come direct to our office for your free treatment or if you prefer, we will come direct to your home and give you a demonstration. The main thing is, find out as soon as possible if Ionaco will help you or yours.
Some of the Many Diseases with which the Delightful Ionaco Treatments Have Had Striking Success:
Anemia Catarrh Hemorrhoids Sleeplessness
Arthritis Colitis Hernia Tumor
Asthma Constipation Rheumatism Varicose Veins
Bladder Troubles Indigestion Nervous Debility Vertigo
High and Low Blood Pressure Heart Trouble Neuralgia Overweight
Goitre Prostate Troubles Underweight
Bronchitis Gastritis Sciatica Lumbago
Wilshires I-ON-A-CO.
LANCE J. MORTON COMPANY
Salt Lake—66 Exchange Place. Was. 7733
Provo—408 W. Center St. Phone 1252
Ogden—2246 Washington Ave. Phone 753
L. D. S. GARMENTS
DIRECT FROM FACTORY
You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. Return them for full refund if they do not give this required service. Cutler Underwear has maintained the highest standard of quality for over twenty years.
No. 74 Lt. Weight combed $1.15
No. 64 Medium weight 1.43
No. 76 Lt. Weight lisle 1.59
No. 62 Medium heavy 1.70
No. 61 Med. Hvy. Unbleached with double back 1.70
No. 56 Heavy weight 2.15
No. 27 Med. Heavy, ⅓ wool 3.35
No. 39 Heavy, ⅓ wool 3.85
"Ten Dollars Per Thousand Dollars"
One per cent per month including interest is the simple basis upon which we are making loans on improved real estate in Salt Lake City and Ogden.
Where Find a Better Plan?
Advantageous Interest Rates. Please state whether for men or women—new or old style
Postage prepaid "You'll Save 6 to 20%"
Straight Loans if Desired.
Ashton-Jenkins Co.
32 Main Street Salt Lake City
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
L. D. S. GARMENTS
When ordering, state Size, New or Old Style, and if for man or lady. Postage prepaid in U. S. Samples on request.
142 Light Weight, Flat $.95
204 Double Carded Cotton, Rib 1.25
32 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt. 1.50
222 Cotton, Rayon Striped 1.65
252 Cotton Bleached, Med. Wt. 1.75
784 Unbleached, Med. Hvy. 1.85
758 Bleached, Med. Hvy. 1.95
214 Finest Combed Lisle and Silk Rayon, Men's and Ladies' 2.15
622 Mercerized Lisle, Lt. Wt. 2.15
244 Swiss Rib, Lisle and Silk Rayon, Men's and Ladies' New Style 2.25
BARTON & CO.
Established in Utah 45 Years
Modern Electric Co.
Was. 2307 128 So. State Street
F. C. Wolters, Pres. F. Boede, Sec.
The Home of Distinctive yet inexpensive Lighting Fixtures. Now is the time to replace those old fixtures for something that will add beauty to your home, besides giving maximum illumination at a minimum cost. Phone us your orders for National Mazda Lamps. We also carry a full line of Electrical Appliances.
For many uses it takes the place of cream at about one-third the cost. It is always safe, pure and convenient. Ask for Sego Milk and be sure you get what you ask for.
The Utah Milk for all People Leads
BETTER BETTER REFRIGERATION AND HEALTH
Pure, wholesome foods, kept fresh and pure, is not a luxury but a practical necessity—a matter of health protection. Up-to-date, progressive tradesmen are providing this with "Lipman Full—Automatic Refrigerating Equipment"
—A SIZE FOR EVERY NEED
AUTOMATIC REFRIGERATION CO.
W. A. RITCHIE, Manager
No. 64 Post Office Place Phone Wasatch 7379
Salt Lake City, Utah
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.
LAUNDRY
Hyland 190
Distinctive Work
Office 319 S. Main St.
FOUND AT LAST
After years of suffering from Constipation and Rheumatism and taking all kinds of drugs, I at last found a safe and natural remedy. Through years of research, a careful selection of wheat that contained the natural oils, and the combining that wheat in a special way, the secret was mine. Many voluntary expressions like the following come to me:
"I haven't had such relief for years. The remedy leaves no bad effects."
"Wonderful how well I feel now."
"The cheapest remedy I have ever taken."
"My rheumatism is a thing of the past."
9lb bag Special Laxo-flour 75c
24lb bag Special Laxo-flour $1.75
48lb bag Special Laxo-flour $3.25
At these prices we deliver to the first and second zones. For other zones add difference in postage. No orders sent C. O. D.
Address:
McRAE'S NATURAL FOODS
320 Owen Place
Salt Lake City, Utah
YOUNG SAMSON knows what he's aiming at—a bottle of our rich, creamy milk. It's a ringer every time, and the prize is health.
GLOVER LEAF DAIRY
159 W. 1st So. Was. 2177
On Paid up Stock. Shares of $100 each we pay 6% dividends per year quarterly. And if you need your money you can withdraw on short notice with no forfeiture whatever. Money loaned only on first mortgages. Purely mutual plan.
Prudential Building Society
204 Kearns Bldg. Was. 2789
Built to Endure
Geo. M. Cannon, Pres.
Geo. Q. Morris, Sec.
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
Ode to Aunt Eliza R. Snow Maggie Ivins Bentley
Second poem to receive honorable mention in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest

Deep in my heart are cherished memories Of a dear lady, now with us no more; One who possessed a queenly dignity, With naught unwomanly to mar her grace, When but a child upon my mother's knee, In pensive mood [I listened to the lore, Thrilling beyond compare, of pioneers, Whho braved the dangers of the West, to find A fitting place in which to make a home Where they might worship as did Saints of old, And rear their children in the path of right. Among those noble men and women, who For sake of conscience fled familiar scenes, Courting the dangers of the wilderness, Was Aunt Eliza, brave and true of heart, Though frail in body, and by grief bowed down, Because of tribulation's iron hand. She ne'er was blessed with children of her own, Yet, as a mother was revered by many Who came to her for counsel and advice, Or comfort in their greatest lhour of need; Her poesy, likewise, gave consolation To Saints in Zion and in foreign lands— Produced rare hymns of praise, and glorified The cause for which her labor was expended. From youth to age her valiancy was proven, Regardless of the stress or circumstance; By tongue and pen she heralded the truth For which our martyred prophet suffered death. What though the mortal casket of this dear And gracious lady, long ago, was laid Away in mother earth?—Her fame lives on, And will continue so to do, as long As time shall last. Dear Aunt Eliza:— Memory recalls the day when you Gave inspiration to the little ones Who flocked to meet you, as from place to place, You journeyed, working for the good of all; The old, the young, the high as well as low, Revered you as their prophetess and friend— Even as Miriam, of Bible lore wasloved By countless hosts of ancient Israel. Aunt Zina's name, with yours is always linked, As true companion for the public weal; We loved you both, and many others, who Helped us to learn to do the better part. God bless the noble pioneers who built So well, and made it possible for us To live and strive, as Saints of Latter days. — 2 Si Ze xe ) Sf. @::. FPR AT, a Sell Zz Ale ON 4 ONG THE é Relief Society Magazine Vol. XIV MARCH, 1927 No. 3 The Relief Society By Alfred Osmond, head of the English Department of the Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah. My mission is to comfort and relieve All human beings who are in distress, To suffer with the wretched ones who grieve, And scatter seeds of kindness that will bless. The sinners who are willing to confess Can claim the boon of my protecting care. I love the sad and sordid. None the less, But breathe for them an earnest heartfelt prayer That God will guide their feet from pitfalls of despair. My home is with the humble and the poor; The gilded palaces and stately halls, Where pomp and pride seem stable and secure To those who have become their willing thralls, Do not appeal to me; but when pride falls I visit her and lead her to the light. I dare not hesitate when duty calls, But in the coldest and the darkest night I seek her cheerless cell, to charm her sense of sight. I love to live in valleys of distress, In lonely places, on the desert sands Where wealth will never come to cheer and bless The feeble limbs and fleshless feet and hands. Domestic shores and distant foreign strands Have never called on me, and mine in vain. I nurse the needy who will break their bands, The galling bands of poverty and pain,, To toil in open fields for means that will sustain. I am the master of a cheerful mind, The wielder of an influence for good, The honors and the riches that I find Will make my mission clearly understood. With firmer faith and stronger hardihood, I face the future of my life's career, And stand today where I have always stood, For love that drives away the ghosts of fear And stirs the meanest mind with thrills of better cheer. Dr. VALERIA H. PARKER Dr. Valeria H. Parker President of National Council of Women United States of America Dr.. Valeria H. Parker, Director of the Department of Protective Measures of the American Social Hygiene Association, has had a long experience in social work.. She was born in Chicago, but since 1905 has lived further east, her home being in New York. Her training for her profession was obtained in Augusta Hospital, Berlin, Germany, in 1892; at Daros Platza, Switzerland, 1895; Hering Homeopathic Medical College, Chicago, 1902. In 1898, she was graduated receiving the degree of B. A. From Oxford College, Oxford, Ohio. Probably some of her medical work was done in this institution, but we have no information as to that. She has not been in active medical practice since her marriage, in 1905. In 1913, she was appointed the first woman probation officer in her home town of Greenwich, Connecticut. The following year she became Field Secretary of the Connecticut Social Hygiene Association, and continued to work for this organization until 1919, when she joined the staff of the American Social Hygiene Association. From 1919 to 1921, she was Chairman of the Social Hygiene Committee of the National League of Women Voters. She directs the social hygiene activities of the National Congress of Parents and Teachers and also the Department of Social Morality of the National Woman's Christian Temperance Union. In 1920, when the United States Public Health Service held its Institute on Venereal Diseases and Social Hygiene, she was appointed one of the lecturers, and she was also a member of the Conference Committee of Fifty for the All-American Conference on Venereal Diseases of that year. In addition to her lecture and educational work, she has had experience in the direction of a home for deserted and unmarried mothers and their babies, and during the war was appointed, under the Connecticut State Council of Defense, supervisor of a force of six policewomen, who formed part of the state police force and acted as law-enforcement and protective agents. In June 1921, Dr. Parker was appointed to succeed Dr. Thomas 'A Storey, as Executive Secretary of the United States Interdepartmental Social Hygiene Board, a federal board established by Congress, in 1918, to protect soldiers and sailors from vicious influence and from venereal infections, in addition to promoting educational and scientific research in these fields. Through this work, Dr. Parker was enabled to develop further medical and sociological researches of value to the whole nation, and to cooperate with the United States Public Health Service, and other 112 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE federal voluntary agencies, in stimulating local officials and voluntary groups to new efforts in repressing prostitution, securing medical treatment, and rehabilitation for those needing them, and employing policewomen and other protective workers. No attempt was made by the Board to usurp police powers, but its work was one of aid and cooperation, its wide experience enabling it to help local authorities effectively. On the termination of her leave of absence, July 1, 1922, Dr. Parker returned to the staff of the American Social Hygiene Association, as Director of its Department of Protective Measures. The Association is the representative voluntary social hygiene agency in the United States, its departments of Public Information, Educational Measures, Protective Measures, Legal Measures, and Medical Measures, cooperating closely with the governmental agencies such as the United States Public Health Service, United States Bureau of Education, the Department of Labor and the Department of Justice. It also: works with state and community boards of health, and other recognized voluntary organizations having problems in its field. Through its motion pictures, books and pamphlets, exhibits, and other material, together with the advisory service rendered by its staff, the 'Association jhas been able to give efficient cooperation to the influential women's organizations in the United States and other countries. Close relations are maintained with the League of Women Voters, the Women's Christian Temperance Union, the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, the Council of Jewish Women, the General Federation of Women's Clubs, and other organizations, regardless of sectarian or political affiliations. In all this work, Dr. Parker is active in assisting to solve the complicated problems arising from the awakened public sense of responsibility for preventing sex delinquency, and in dealing fairly and wisely with the delinquent. Her wide experience in this field is constantly called upon, and her services as lecturer are in demand throughout the United States. Pe Women Legislators Annie (Wells Cannon The Utah State Legislature of 1927 has four women representatives in the lower house. Two of these are serving their first term, while the other two have the experience of the previous session to their credit. Since statehood in 1896 there have always been women in the Utah legislature; and though the representation has perhaps not been as large as the women of the state have deserved, or thought they were entitled to, the fact is something to be proud of, for the records disclose their work has been conscientious, efficient and noteworthy. Naturally they have labored largely along educational and welfare lines; at the same time they have demonstrated a knowledge of, and interest in, all matters pertaining to the upbuilding and progress of the state. LAURA WOODLAND TANNER There are few women more devoted to unselfish service than Mrs. Tanner. As teacher, wife, mother and social worker she has given freely of her time and talents to the home, the school and the community. Her parents and grandparents were Utah pioneers, and her girlhood home was in Brigham City. She early entered the Brigham Young College at Logan, and was the only woman student in the first graduating class of that institution, after which she taught school for a short period in Cache county. In 1890 she was married to Henry jS. Tanner, and spent some time with him in the California mission, later accompanying him to Ann Arbor, Michigan, where he studied law. In the enjoyment of the cultural atmosphere of that great university she had a rich experience, and her home became the rendezvous for Utah students and their friends. Her friendly care and gentle solicitude for the comfort and welfare of these young people as well as for the missionaries of the locality were proverbial and unceasing. ~ At home Mrs. Tanner has been an active worker in the auxiliary organizations of the Church, responding willingly to every call made upon her and having served as teacher or officer in the Sunday School, Religion Class, Young Ladies' Mutual' Improvement Association, and Relief Society. She is also much - interested in genealogical work. She has been chairman of many important committees in the fields of civic and educational welfare. For four years she was 114 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE vice president, and for three years president of the Parent Teachers' Association of Utah. As chairman of the Recreation committee she worked for the closing of streets near which there were insufficient school playgrounds, during the recess and noon hours. She was a leader in the survey among school patrons as to what they most desired their children taught, the result of which was the present extensive instruction in manual training and home economics. She was chairman of the committee on adult health education under the Home and School League, also chairman of the Child Welfare Committee, which provided for the weighing and measuring of 13,639 pre- -school children of Salt Lake City in connection with a survey made by the United States government. She has served as a member of the Civic Center organization and the Free Clinic and Dispensary. At present she is vice president of the Utah Congress of Parents and Teachers; vice president of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers, having in charge the collecting of Western history for that. Organization; chairman of legislation for the National Federation of Republican Women, having assisted materially im preparing a pamphlet on the fundamentals of taxation in Utah.. > During the World War she engaged in helpful service under the Red Cross and Council of Defense and had one son in the service. WOMEN LEGISLATORS 115 She is the mother of ten children, eight of whom are living, and notwithstanding her manifold public activities she continues to place home and motherhood above all, else., In the present legislature she is chairman of the Industrial School and School for the Deaf and Blind; is a member of the committees on Corporations, Buildings and Public Grounds, and Public Health. MRS. MILLIE PINNEY LOWE Mrs. Lowe is a daughter of the state of Utah. She is of pioneer parentage. Her father, William Pinney, was one of the early architects of the state, and for fifteen years was superintendent of public school construction. She was born in Salt Lake City, and educated in the public schools and University of Utah, from which institution she was graduated. For many years Mrs. Lowe has been a teacher in the public schools, an experience which has given her a fine understanding of human nature, and doubtless prepared a way for that broader training which led to the responsible position of state legislator. In the present legislature she is chairman of the Public Health committee, and is a member of the committee on Education, University and Utah Agricultural College, and Resolutions and 116 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Memorials. She is a member of the Wasatch Literary Club, the Elks Ladies' Club, the second largest federated club in the state, the Woman's National Republican Federation, and the Parent Teachers' Association, in all of which she has held responsible positions of office. She was one of the first presidents of the Parent Teachers' Association, and has always been devoted to the educational interests of the state. She is at present secretary of the State Federation of Women's Clubs, and is very helpful to that organization in many ways. She is considered one of the best parliamentarians among the women of the state, and had the unanimous support of the Federation for the nomination as legislator, knowing, as they did, her very splendid qualifications and thoroughness in everything she undertakes. Mrs. Lowe claims she has no pet ideas or hobbies, but is anxious to give consideration to any measure that would tend to help women and children. She believes there should be more intelligent training for motherhood, and that more attention should be given to health problems. She is vitally concerned, and cannot understand why people are so indifferent to the calamity of disease. She considers one of the greatest evils and one that is so subtle that it is hard to meet, is that evil which prompts young women to avoid motherhood. To her mind there is no joy like the joy of family life, with that, she says, one always has something to live for, and to her mind the greatest burden of life is "living without having something to live for." Mrs. Lowe says she is most bitterly opposed to the cigarette girl and all her ways, and feels that the prominent women of influence should take steps to show the girls how much better it would be to try to raise the standard of the men instead of stooping to their level. Mrs. Lowe is the wife of Arthur J. Lowe, Jr. She has had four children, but lost one in babyhood after a brief illness. Her oldest daughter is a University graduate and a teacher in the public schools. While she has quite pronounced opinions, she has a charming manner and the poise and clearness of mind necessary for a legislator. MRS. ACHSA E. PAXMAN Mrs. Paxman of, Utah county has proved herself a most capable and efficient law-maker. She was a member of the legislature of 1925, and received many marks of favor and attention. Her quiet dignity and clear comprehension of matters presented, and her concise and logical way of argument, were remarked upon by her colleagues, and her re-election to the 1927 session is but a just recognition of earnest and satisfying work. The Magazine has previously given a short sketch of Mrs. Paxman, but since that time she has added somewhat to her laurels by engaging in other important activities. Under her presidency the Provo Woman's. WOMEN LEGISLATORS 117 Republican Club made a rather aggressive campaign, and with an increased reembership put over some very fine educational work along Americanization and political science lines. As a member of the stake presidency of the Relief Society, she is kept very busy in welfare work, and those best acquainted with the many duties of that office can easily appreciate the fact of the constant calls that would be made upon her time. With her experience as a wife and mother, and her natural love for doing good, the people of the state may feel quite assured of her wisdom in all matters. In the present legislature she is chairman of the State Mental Hospital committee, and is a member of the committees on Public Health, Education, and the University and Agricultural College. She is the wife of W. Monroe Paxman of Provo, and the mother of five children. She is a graduate of the Brigham Young University, also the State University, and is an accomplished elocutionist. She is easy to approach and gracious in manner; holds firm to her convictions on all moral issues and desires to be helpful to her friends whenever possible. MRS. JULIA KENDRICKS SMART Mrs. Smart, interested chiefly in home life, found herself in 1924 in politics and a candidate for election to the state house of representatives, hers having been the unusual experience of political honors thrust upon her. That her work in the session of 1925, at which time a sketch of her appeared in this Magazine, was eminently satisfactory, is evident, for without opposition she 118 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE received the nomination and vote of her constituency for reelection. She is alert and has a pleasing personality, with real business acumen, having had considerable experience in her early married life, assisting her husband with his extensive farm and live-stock interests. She is a descendant of Utah pioneers, and of early American ancestry. She was born in Thatcher, Idaho. Her parents, the late Joseph and Margaret Petty Kendricks, moved to Logan when she was six years old, and there, in the grammar schools and Brigham Young College, she received her education. In 1908 she was married to Claud Loyd Smart, and ten years later, in company with her husband, spent five years in the Eastern States mission. Her missionary work was mostly in New York City, where she gained a rich experience. She is an active worker in the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association, a member of the Daughters of the "Mormon" Battalion, and is interested in civic and welfare work. In the present legislature she is serving on the following committees: Education, University and Agricultural College, and State Mental Hospital. Her home is in Salt Lake City. THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faileth THE GENERAL BOAR RS. CLARISSA SMITH WILLIAMS - + -:: - President Wee. JENNIE BRIMHALL KNIGHT - - - - - - First Counselor MRS. LOUISE YATES ROBISON - - - - - - - Second Counselor MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN - - - - _ General Secretary and Treasurer S A. Mrs. Julia A. Child Mrs. Barbara Howell Richards a sormrire ea Mrs. Cora L. Bennion Mrs. Kosannah C. Irvine Miss Sarah M. McLelland — Joli ge ne el ae geld Reynolds 6 i 1 '3. Amy ipple Evans rs. Nettie D. Bradfor Mee Cee ta OMES Bie Re et, Mis, Bie Be Ape Mrs. Lotta Paul Baxter Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, Music Director Miss Edna Coray, Organist RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor -:: - -::: Crarissa SMITH WILLIAMS Associate Editor - - - - - - - Avice Louisz ReyNnoxps Assistant Manager - - - - - - - Aux Brown Lyman Room 28, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City. Utah 
Vol. XIV MARCH, 1927 No. 3
EDITORIAL
Did the Charter Members Dream it?
It is eighty-five years, on the 17th day of March, 1927, since the Prophet Joseph Smith organized the Relief Society in the city of Nauvoo. The women who were made part of the organization knew, no doubt, that they were brought together for purposes of great good; yet it is doubtful if their vision penetrated a time when the organization would be linked up with prominent social agencies that are striving earnestly, sympathetically and intelligently for the alleviation of sorrow and suffering in the world.
Anybody visiting the cemeteries where the Puritan mothers sleep may observe that these cemeteries frequently contain the graves of several wives and many children of one man. The people of that time were bowed in sorrow over what they believed to be the dispensation of Providence, feeling no doubt that it was in the order of things, and there was no way to avoid such calamities. Even Eugene Field, the poet, to whom we devote an article in this issue of the Magazine, lost three of his six children.
We have already drawn attention, in editorial columns, to a change that is taking place. H. G. Wells, the famous English writer, in a series of articles which are being published in the Sunday edition of the New York Times, on progressive movements in the world, after quoting some very extraordinary statistics about
120 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the decrease in the death rate of infants, in Great Britain, concludes by showing that the past few years have brought about extraordinary results in this respect, in all the more highly civilized parts of the world. We wonder if, in the visions that crowded upon the early workers in the Relief Society, they could see the dawn of this splendid day, when mothers and children would be permitted to live out a natural life and not so often be separated one from the other!
Honorable Treasurer?Mrs. W. E. Sanford?International Council of Women
We take great pleasure in introducing to our readers in this anniversary issue, Mrs. W. E. Sanford, Honorable Treasurer of the International Council of Women. Mrs. Sanford's home is at Wesanford, Hamilton, Canada. She is a woman of very great charm, and of deep religious sentiment. She was in attendance at the Biennial Meeting of the National Council of Women of the United States, held in Detroit, in November, 1925. At that Biennial Dr. Valeria H. Parker was elected president, and Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman, recording secretary. Mrs. Sanford was at the Council Meetings as a representative of the International Council. In the course of a brief address she quoted the following extracts from The Life of Faith, February 7, 1923:
"I had walked life's way with an easy tread, Had followed where comforts and pleasures led, Until one day in a quiet place, I met the Master, face to face.
"With station and rank, and wealth for my goal, Much thought for my body, but none for my soul, I had entered to win in life's big race, When I met the Master, face to face.
"I met Him and knew Him and blushed to see That His eyes full of sorrow were fixed on me. I faltered and fell at His feet that day, While my castles melted and vanished away,
Melted and vanished, and in their place, Naught else did I see but the Master's face. And I cried aloud, 'Oh, make me meet To follow the steps of Thy wounded feet.'
My thought is now for the souls of men; I have lost my life to find it again, E'er since one day in a quiet place, I met the Master, face to face."
EDITORIALS 121
Mrs. Lyman was so deeply impressed with the quotation that she asked Mrs. Sanford for a copy. In forwarding the lines, Mrs. Sanford wrote: "Kindly accept enclosed cards, the verses on which were used at the Biennial Meeting of the National Council of Women of the United States, held in November, 1925, in Detroit. With earnest good wishes from Mrs. Sanford."
Commendable Initiative
Word comes to us from time to time of the splendid work the Relief Societies are doing all over the Church, to enhance and broaden the scope of the lesson work. In the August issue of the Magazine, we drew attention to what had been done to make more interesting the Emily Dickinson lesson, and the lesson on Amy Lowell. Now word comes to us that when the Joaquin Miller lesson was studied the Berkeley Relief Society took an excursion to the poet's home, and to the funeral pyre that is swept by the winds of the Golden Gate. When Eugene Field was the subject of the lesson, Mrs. Temperance Moon, of Farmington, who was the nurse of Eugene Field from 1851 to 1853, appeared before the Relief Society and told of her experience, and presented letters that had been written to her by the famous author. Now she brings them to us. June 21, 1910, the semi-weekly Herald-Republican of Salt Lake City published an article covering this story. We feel sure it will be of interest to our readers, therefore we are publishing in this issue of the Magazine the pictures of Mrs. Moon and Eugene Field, as well as the article appearing in the Herald-Republican. We heartily commend officers, class leaders, and all connected with them, for their interest and foresight in putting over projects of such unmistakable value.
An Important Visitor
We are including in this issue of the Magazine a portrait and brief sketch of Dr. Valeria H. Parker, President of the National Council of Women of the United States, and Director of the Department of Protective Measures, American Social Hygiene Association. Dr. Parker is one of the outstanding women of America. We think of her in connection with such women as Carrie Chapman Catt, Mrs. Maud Wood Park, Charlotte Perkins Gilman, Julia Lathrop, Grace Abbott, and other outstanding women who are devoting all of the talent and power with which God has endowed them for the eradication of social ills in the world. Dr. Parker is interested in social hygiene problems. She is
122 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
interested in the abolition of intemperance, and social diseases, and all things that mar the peace and happiness of the human race. She is interested in the abolition of war, and to this end is putting forth her best energies that nations may understand one another, and that death and destruction may not follow in the wake of some petty misunderstanding or disagreement. Dr. Parker is seeking to have all the world as free from social diseases, of which social hygiene takes particular note, as the editor of The Forum intimated the "Mormon" people are, when he wrote of the "Mormons" "that their venereal record in the world war was as clean as a whistle."
Tribute to the Great Women's Organization, A Starter in the Emancipation of Women (Tune?"Come, All Ye Sons of Zion) Kershaw N. White, Bishop of 26th Ward, Salt Lake City
Come Israel's favored daughters, yours is a work of cheer, Progressing as you journey, through every passing year; Success will crown your labors, the fountain clear and pure From which your cause is flowing, proclaims it shall endure.
A Prophet, Seer and Martyr, met with you on that day, And gave his precious blessing to start you on your way; And youth, in all its beauty, joined hand in hand with age To write a wondrous story in history's shining page.
Where death's bright angel enters, we ever find you there, And poor and sick and needy will always have your care. So, an earnest invitation we lovingly extend, And trust that in this service, your zeal you now will lend.
A glorious Prophet leader, gave you a charter grand, And so divine approval has made your cause expand; And everywhere God's daughters will come into their own And reap a bounteous harvest from seeds that you have sown.
Narvik and Bergen May Booth Talmage
On the little boat which carried us north from Trondhjem, we found experiences that were absolutely unique to us. The opportunities for observation of customs and people were vastly different from those afforded on the great ocean liners. The tiny cabins were comfortable, and food good, and the miniature drawing rooms quite large enough for the few who wished to use them; but in none of these did our chief interest center. There were delicious sunshine, exhilarating breezes and a glorious sea outside. There was an ever changing panorama of scenery, with new delights to broaden experience at every turn. There was no suggestion of an ocean voyage as our little craft threaded its way in and out of those fjords. Contrasts of narrow passages scarcely wider than a river, but always emerging into a broad expanse of water; and charming emerald hills, their rugged, barren crags, their nooks and coves, where snuggled tiny villages named after the viks (pronounced veeks) or little tiny inlets of the fjords, which villages are inhabited by men and women whom choise of nature has placed far indeed from the "maddening crowd;" and their busy, bustling cities, where industries are carried on and thousands have congregated "to live and move and have their being." The Captain was a pleasing, approachable man and chatted freely with some of the passengers. He had been to the ends of the earth?if there are any?and spoke English well. Our boat, however, was by no means intended for voyagers only. It was laden with everything from cabbages to?well, not kings exactly, but things almost as important to the lives of those isolated people. A shrill whistle announced our approach as we came in sight of a little town near a "vik." We would then see one or two small boats loosened from their moorings and rowed out to get the passengers, mail, or freight, brought to them by our vessel. We slowed down but did not stop as they came alongside us and attached their boat to ours by ropes. A ladder or wooden stairway was lowered, by means of which the passengers from the shore came aboard our ship and others descended to sail away to their inland nooks. Afterward a freight craft replaced the one for passengers, and received such commodities as had been consigned to that place. The variety of things carried was a source of intense interest, as we watched the unloading process at various places. Lumber, sugar, vegetables, live chickens, flowering window plants, a 124 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE sewing machine, canned goods from the U. S. A., and a huge stone, were some of the things we noted, though it taxed our curiosity to know why the last article was brought, since stones of the self-same kind were plentiful in the region. At one landing stage there were 'huge piles of sorted fishheads and bones. We learned that they were to be used by a fertilizing plant and glue factory in the vicinity. Only a few coarse-garbed workmen were in view, and almost no houses; yet before we left there came tripping along a charming, fairhaired maiden of about fifteen, with her little brothers. Her dainty, light, blue-sprigged dimity was the season's latest style; and the little fellows, one with a trim dark suit, the other in bright red, might have been attired ready to start for a picture show in some metropolis. They looked quite incongruous with that setting of unkempt men and ill smelling piles of fish bones. NARVIK They were doubtless the children of the manager, whose wife preserved her ideals of self-respect regardless of environment; and, of course, she will never know what a pleasing memory was thus left on the minds of traveling strangers. Notwithstanding this bit of philosophizing we could not help exclaiming, "What a life for a young girl with dreams and hopes and aspirations!" We had as fellow-passengers a troop of Boy Scouts, who did honor to their organization by their happy dispositions, their courteous, manly ways and general good behavior. They also understood English and spoke it, though brokenly. Along NARVIK AND BERGEN 125 the way they were greeted by representatives of other troops and warmly welcomed when their destination was reached. We were sorry to lose their cheery presence. On the second day out we touched at Boda, and went ashore for an eight hour respite. My diary records the following facts concerning this interesting place to which the Norwegian king had come two weeks before to open a big fair: A walk about town furnished some surprises. We found three banks located in fine buildings, fourteen autos waiting near the hotel, fifty boats of various types and sizes in the charming little harbor, an electric light shop, photograph gallery, Ford salesroom, good modern hotel, comfortable homes with flowers in almost every window, not common household plants, but the luxurious La France and other choice varieties of roses that flourish so luxuriantly in that vicinity due to the favorable climate,. As President Christopherson told us. In a green grocery shop there were bananas, oranges, cherries, gooseberries, tomatoes, cucumbers, cabbages, turnips and carrots?these in a country farther north than Iceland!" At 4:00 p. M. We reembarked, and' reached our destination, Narvik, at 2:00 p. M. The following day. One is apt to imagine that within the Arctic Circle the people dress in furs and have to use much oil and fat in their diet in order to keep warm. We were pleasantly surprised to find glorious sunshine and a climate that made even a light spring wrap unnecessary. Most of our little colony were out to meet the boat. It was to them an occasion of twofold significance. They were greeting for the first time their own Mission President, Brother Martin Chistopherson, and the President of the European Missions, for the first time in years. We were taken by Branch President Emil Evensen and our one lone elder, Hyrum L. Jensen?not on a sledge, with reindeer, but in an ordinary automobile?to a comfortable hotel. A delicious chicken dinner with soup, vegetables, salad and desert as accompaniments, served on attractively decorated tables, gave no evidence of our being far from our homeland, nor did we observe anything in the dress, customs, or climate noticeably different from those in the southern cities of Norway.
The city of Narvik. Which is built largely upon hills, has a population of about 7,500. The buildings are substantial looking, and there was an air of general prosperity. No unemployment exists in the city, we were told, which seemed to us very wonderful, since we had so recently left Great Britain, where the coal strike was on, and where for several months there had been more than a million people unemployed. To Narvik is sent by rail the crude ore from the Swedish mines. This is then transferred to boats and taken to England or other places to be smelted. This industry is responsible
126 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
in large measure for the thriving condition of this little northern town, which boasts three banks and a trio of newspapers.
What can one say that will do justice to our little band of devoted members, so far remote from other branches? They number not more than twenty-five in all, and aside from a change of the missionaries once or twice a year and a visit from their mission president at widely separated intervals, or of the European missions' president once every few years, they are entirely isolated from the rest of the Church. Few Church works and none of our magazines are published in their language; no great semi-annual conference can they attend to give them spiritual uplift; they have no visits from stake board members to offer help; no lectures to afford a change, and yet we found the same genuine gospel spirit, and the testimonies they bore lacked no whit of fervor or earnestness. One member, Sister Lassen, had come by boat from her home a distance of 105 miles to attend the meetings. She is veritably the "one of a city" as there is no other member where she resides. The branch had no members who were out of employment and none who needed assistance; hence the Relief Society problems were not difficult to solve; but the longing to be visited and built up spiritually was intense. This was evinced in many ways that left no room for doubt.
On the Sunday of our arrival, September 5, two public sessions were held. Among the visitors at the evening meeting was the editor of one of the local papers. He seemed much interested
NARVIK AND BERGEN 127
in the proceedings and remained for a pleasant conversation after the service closed. Having lived for six years in America, he, of course, spoke our language well. President Evensen understands English and speaks it with a somewhat broken accent.
Supper, after we reached the hotel, was unique in that it was all placed on a long table and the guests were free to help themselves. As at a buffet meal at home, the plates and cutlery were in piles and the variety of food was delicious enough to tempt the appetites of the most exacting. Guests could replenish their plates as often as desired; the moderate prices being no different if one ate much or little.
On the boat going up we were amused to hear a young woman inquire with apparent seriousness as to which hour at the North Cape would be the best to see the midnight sun. We were a month or more too late to see this phenomenon in Narvik at midnight, but we climbed a rather high hill at 11 p. M., and forty-five minutes later watched the lingering afterglow disappear. Before descending we were able to read very fine print.
Aside from the interesting sunset, the view from the hill was wonderful. The broad expanse of water, with boats at anchor, the distant mountains outlined against the sky as far as the eye could reach, the twinkling lights from homes on the hills opposite, and the quiet of the midnight hour, were all deeply impressive. As we descended we met an elderly man taking what seemed to be a leisurely evening stroll, and a bit farther on several young couples were enjoying the twilight hour. We. Were curious to learn how the young men could decide when it was time to go home, since it would not be really dark before the morrow's sun would rise.
Other meetings were held on Monday, and between such we were entertained at the home of Sister Aslang Sorensen, the Relief Society president. About 11 p. M. A few of these newly made friends went with us to the boat. With tear-dimmed eyes they said farewell; there was much sympathy in our hearts as we watched them go slowly home. To them it meant long months of waiting until another visitor would come, and it might be years before both their mission president and a member of the Council of the Twelve could make the long journey together.
Shortly after rising the following morning we left our little boat and boarded a much finer one, which was on its return trip from the North Cape. Among the interesting passengers aboard were two nieces of the well known scientist, the late Lord Lister. They, with their cousin and two friends from Switzerland, had waited in vain for three days to see the midnight sun, but the obstinate clouds refused to lift. Though no longer young, this group of women knew how to get much enjoyment from life. Two were artists, the others keenly interested in botany; it was a
128 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
real pleasure to converse with them and watch their animated faces. As we wound in and out of the fjords, now among high forbidding crags and soon amidst the loveliest green hills with tiny towns, on "viks," hidden in nook or cove, one could not but envy these artist friends and their talents. With swift, sure hand they caught the passing loveliness and held it captive for home friends to enjoy.
One gorgeous sunset made indelible impression on my memory. A gateway between two jutting hills revealed the sun just ready to sink into the sea. The softly undulating waves made the great ball of flame and gold appear to dance upon the water. Unlike any previous sight some optical illusion caused the lower half to look like the reddest embers, with a band of black dividing it from its upper half of gold. The crest of the waves caught and held this glorious glint of fiery color, which was in turn reflected in the depressions in opalescent tints. The scene was breathtaking in its indescribable loveliness.
Our boat arrived again at Trondhjem on Thursday morning in time for a delicious breakfast at the mission home. As no other vessel left for Bergen before evening, we had the pleasure of another day with our missionaries there. The Relief Society sister again brought a basket of daintily prepared food for us to have on the boat in case we should not always want the fare provided. Their thoughtfulness was deeply appreciated. Sister Borghild E. Nielsen, the mission secretary, again joined us on the trip to Bergen, which place we reached on Saturday morning. This beautiful Norwegian city holds a very warm place in my heart, built as the city is back from the harbor, and stretching upward between hills covered with all kinds of evergreens. Not alone between the hills but on one side the houses climb on and on up to the very top. A large restaurant, fitted up in charming style, crowns the summit; and passengers are conveyed from below by means of a funicular railroad. There are landing stages on the way where people who live in these high places get on and off. A well constructed road winds back and forth for pedestrians who like to climb. We preferred to use this on the downward trip and were rewarded by a prolonged view of the wonderful scenery spread out before us. The harbor with its boats arriving and departing, the river with smaller craft plying between the harbor, and a lake up in the hills beyond the town, the houses dotting the hillside and valley, made another memorable picture.
NARVIK AND BERGEN 129
The meetings held during our three days sojourn in Bergen included the splendid features of those attended in other cities, The well nigh perfect blending of voices produced music that lingers yet to give us joy. Each day the Relief Society officers prepared excellent meals for the missionaries of the Conference and the visiting guests. As in other places we were overwhelmed by all this self-sacrificing and kindness.
Our visit to the Scandinavian countries was now at an end. At the wharf a large group gathered. They came with flowers and other tokens of remembrance. After we embarked and sailed they walked to the end of the long pier and waved until eyes could no longer detect the bits of fluttering white. Our hearts were full of blessings for the warm friends we met or made throughout all the missions visited; and there were also fervent prayers for honest souls who yet shall come within the gospel fold.
My Faith Helen McQuarrie
"Long time ago I prayed And Heavenly Father heard, And lo: I stand on Zion's soil Rejoicing, glad and unafraid
Oh Father dear, may I 'Mid all these wondrous scenes Within Thy house be found Purified, for Thou art nigh.
Nurse who Attended Eugene Field When a Boy Now Resident of Utah
Extract from the Semi-Weekly Herald-Republican, Salt Lake City, Utah, Tuesday, June 21, 1910, presented to the Relief Society Magazine by Mrs. Moon.
A way beyond Lagoon, on the North Farmington road, lives a sweet-faced, gentle-voiced old lady whose distinction it is to have been the nurse of Eugene Field. Would she leave her garden for a few minutes to talk about her famous charge? Her face lighted up with pleasure at the question, and she accepted the invitation cordially for he was her "boy," she said.
In 1851, when Eugene Field was 9 or 10 months old, Mrs, Temperance Moon, of Farmington, Utah, then a child herself of 11, was for two years employed as a nurse girl in the family of Roswell M. Field, father of the distinguished writer. Little Eugene was her especial charge. In 1853 Mrs. Moon came to Utah with her brother and heard no more from the Field family until she wrote Eugene Field, in 1891, to ask if the writer of the verses, which she had come to love, was by any chance her little charge of earlier years. Field responded with warmth to her letter, said he remembered his old nurse, and cordially inquired about her family and old-time mutual friends. The letters which passed between them are a great source of comfort to Mrs. Moon, and the correspondence only terminated at Field's death. "If the had lived, I believe he would have come to see me," she said sadly. It was the same "if he had lived" that hundreds of warm personal friends repeat with regret as they mourn the early death of the writer.
Sends Her His Picture
Field sent Mrs. Moon a picture with the inscription, "Frances Field and her baby Eugene Field. Copy of a picture made in 1851," and asked her to write him if she remembered it. Mrs. Moon says that she does, and a later one when she herself took the child in his first little suit of clothes to have his picture taken.. This one, she would give many times its value to possess, but there is no means of knowing if a copy is in existence.
The new clothes were of black velvet, with a circular cloak that fell to his heels and a black velvet hat and feather. The child was very large for his age Mrs. Moon says, fair, with dark blue eyes and soft, pliable light hair that was quite long for a baby. This fairness Eugene Field kept up in later life, a newspaper story describing him as "tall, slender, boyish, blonde and aggressive."
Mrs. Moon, whose maiden name was Temperance Westwood,
EUGENE FIELD. 131
lost her parents when she was about 11 years old, and it was found necessary for the child to go to work. Her sister, Mercy, was at the time cook in the Field household in St. Louis, Mo. The family was in good circumstances and kept a considerable establishment, living in a three-story house in one of the best residence suburbs of the city. Mrs.: Field came into the kitchen one day when Temperance was there visiting her sister, and it was explained to her that the little girl must secure a situation. "I want you to stay here," she said to Temperance, "and take care of Eugene, who is getting to be a big boy." Later, when another child was born, Temperance had the entire charge of Eugene, sleeping with him in the nursery and looking after him all day long.
Field Loved Stories
Mrs. Moon recalls particularly that in the last months of her care of him, when the child was in his fourth year, how he loved stories. The mother often gave Temperance money to buy fairy tales to read to Eugene., "He seemed in spirit older than his body," said Mrs. Moon, and added that the child clung to her and that she could do anything with him. He was a good baby, large and healthy, according to Mrs. Moon, and of a very inquiring disposition. One of his favorite tales was Puss in Boots.; Mrs. Field was a very particular woman, insisting that the best care must be given her children. She did not like nicknames, so the boys were called by their full names, Eugene and Roswell. The father, a lawyer of considerable local note, was very fond of his children and used to come to the nursery to play with his boys oftener than the nurse quite liked. He was a great smoker, and Mrs. Moon remembers seeing him striding up and down the parlors, declaiming some speech he was about to make.
When Mrs. Moon came to Utah, in 1853, she parted with great regret from the little boy she had come to love. Crossing the plains with an ox team, and the experiences of the strange life in the west, caused her to lose sight of her charge, whose mother soon after died, and the family was broken up. Mrs. Moon married Henry Moon, in 1856. They lived for some time in Salt Lake, but later moved to Farmington, where she now resides.
Field's Mother Dies
While he was yet a little child, Eugene Field's mother died, and he was placed in the care of his aunt, Miss-Mary. French,
132 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
EUGENE FIELD 133
of Amherst, Mass. At 17 years of age he entered Williams college. His father, Roswell M. Field, a distinguished lawyer of St. Louis, who is perhaps best known as one of the counsel for Dred Scott in the famous slavery case, was a thorough scholar. He required the young student to carry on all correspondence in Latin. Before the son had been long at Williams college the father died. Professor John W. Burgess, who was appointed the boy's guardian, placed him in Knox college, at Galesburg, Ill. He studied there two years and later at the University of Missouri. In 1871, having attained his majority, Field traveled in Europe. He then became a newspaper reporter on the St. Louis Evening Journal, from which time his career as a writer was assured. His death occurred November 4, 1895, at the age of 45.
It is doubtful if any other writer has woven so many beautiful child fancies into verse. Even if he had never written anything else, these were enough to bring fame to Eugene Field. His prose writings prove him to have been gifted with delicate sentiment and rare humor. His early death, at a time when he was doing his best work, cut off a career that had only just begun to shape itself.
Following is a copy of a letter Mr. Field wrote Mrs. Moon:
Dear Mrs. Moon: Your letter pleased me very much indeed. I send you a copy of a picture of my mother and myself?a copy of one made when I was a little baby. Please tell me whether it looks natural to you. The Pomeroy girls, Mary and Stella, are both married. Mary lives here in Chicago, and has no children. Stella lives in St. Louis and has a large family. My aunt Belle is now a widow, living in Swanzey, N. H. She married a farmer named Angier. I married in 1875, and we have three children living, a girl of 15 and boys aged 12 and 9. We have lost two boys and one girl. My brother is married but has no children. He is one of the editors of the Kansas City Star. I shall try to send you a picture of my father if I can get a copy made of one we have. Do let me hear from you often. Your letter interested me very much. God bless you. Ever sincerely yours, EUGENE FIELD. 420 Fullerton Avenue, Chicago. May 13, 1891.
The Prime of Life
Thy youth is still upon thee; use it well: No days so precious as the days of prime! Count every hour a gem; keep sentinel Against each robber of thy priceless time: Count every day misspent a failure and a crime.. ?Horatius Bonar
Grandmother Margaret's Slippers Evelyn Elder
Let someone mention the word grandmother, and what picture do you immediately visualize? A dear, hesitating old lady in spectacles and shawl; or a dignified, precise old lady in stiff, immaculate silk gown; or still a pious, church-going old lady, with hymn-books and Bibles piled ten deep about her. Any of these images might readily occur, but rarely would one conjure up a frivolous old lady, with dancing eyes and a light heart. Yet, thank heaven, that is just what Grandmother Margaret always was, frivolous.
From her gleaming, black curls to her small white party pumps, Grandmother Margaret fairly sparkled. And while the ringlets are remembered now only through the medium of an old-fashioned photographer's skill, the white slippers are a different matter. With what reverence of fingers and fluttering of breath, they were drawn forth from the old trunk. For indeed, such little snatches had been left of Grandmother. Her pictured face with its soft masses of dark locks smiled gayly down on us from the living-room wall. Two little pearl ear-drops lay demurely in a faded old satin box. A slim-fashioned, rustling, black-silk jacket was packed securely away among other precious keep-sakes. A shimmering ruby ring lay sparkling coyly in expectation of a future dark-haired girlish wearer. And then to come so unexpectedly upon the dainty, old-fashioned pumps. To draw them forth from the cool, sweet-smelling trunk. To pull the rustling tissue paper carefully away, and to set them out on the soft, deep-toned rug. There they stood, two adorably gay, impudent, white party slippers, faintly yellowed with age.
Now old, half-forgotten memories of stories told by Grandmother Margaret's own lips began to steal back slowly, of that joyous evening, long ago, when a proud and happy girl had danced a brisk quadrille with Brigham Young. How Grandmother's back would straighten and her small head proudly lift itself when she would relate that story. While the little slippers, pride and impudence in every line of them, might easily have glided through that memorable dance with the leader of the desert wastes, perhaps they, too, had tapped their laughing way into the heart of the tall pioneer lad, with the steady gray eyes, and the quiet voice. A new sparkle would come to Grandmother's eyes over the memory of those old meetings, of those far-away times, when the tall, serious boy with the strong back and the sensitive mouth, who, although he could brave trackless plains, and flooding streams, still fell victim to a shining--haired girl with a laughing way.
Dear little slippers. For they it was undoubtedly, that carried a trembling, white-frocked maid to a flower-banked altar,
GRANDMOTHER MARGARET'S SLIPPERS 135
by her side the same tall lad with worshipping eyes. And then when the last strains of faint music had ceased, and the last friends had departed, she had slipped down in a little white heap by the old trunk, and softly, lingeringly, had pushed the dainty things deep into a corner, where years later another dark-haired girl would find them, and slowly, hesitatingly, draw them forth again.
Such little frivolous, white party pumps, to give back so many memories of Grandmother Margaret. She whose tired, girlish feet trudged weary miles of sage-brush-covered plains. She whose fingers toiled unceasingly to build the new home in the strange land. But also, she whose eyes looked trustfully forward to a happy future, and above all, she whose heart danced through the years to the tune of fiddle and song.
I cherish those little white slippers.
Tomorrow
Another weary day is done, And as I watch the setting sun, I sit and think, what have I won, Or is this day another lost? If so, what then shall be the cost That I must pay? But soon 'twill be another day, And then will I begin anew, And strive with all my might to do, The will of God tomorrow.
The sun is rising, yes, I see; Ah, then tomorrow it must be! But no, it is today, and we Are waiting for tomorrow still? Yes, waiting with an earnest will Some kindly word to speak, or do Some noble deed, and yet, how few Have spoken all those words of cheer, And so the day is dark and drear, And we await tomorrow.
Oh! Why not speak that word today? Those we love may pass away Before tomorrow comes; our stay In this dreary world is short? A little while and we must part. Then today let's strive to do All that's noble, good and true. The glad tomorrow will not come, 'Twill be today that's just begun, For there is no tomorrow. ?Nina Eckart Kerrick.
Just a Looker-on A CONFESSION STORY By A Student of the University of Utah, An Only Child
Mother gave a last perk to my pink hair ribbon, and sent me off to the party. My feet lagged, however, as I walked along the street. Mary, who was nine years old today, just two months older than myself, had sent me one of the invitations to her birthday party. Ahead of me, two other little guests were skipping and running from pure happiness. I, who should have been doing the same, felt only an intense desire to run back home. However, with children. Games were being played, and refreshments being served, when Mary's father entered the house. He was a brisk, jolly man, and was fond of children. Coming into the front room, he wound up the victrola, put on a dance record, and commenced dancing with the little girls in turn. Following his example the children paired off, to attempt the dance steps, until I was left alone. I seemed to be the only one who felt awkward and shy, and
From the front room out onto the porch, and then back again I wandered, unhappy and alone. Finally, Mary's mother noticed that I was not enjoying myself, so she immediately sent the young hostess over to talk to me. When Mary reached my side she asked me to dance with her, but I was so miserable and self-conscious by this time, that I could only mumble a refusal. Naturally, I was not asked to join in the fun again, and very shortly I left for home. As I stumbled down the steps, my heart was filled with a sick, lonely ache. How I envied those other little girls, who knew how to dance and play. And more fervently than little picture. For, while I could sit very quietly, read noiselessly, and generally efface myself, still I had never learned how to run
phases of school life I was again at a disadvantage. The picture comes back to me now of the lonely little girl that I was, sitting there among my schoolmates, Many of the children had banded themselves together in a club. I also should have liked to join, but I was never invited. In this society they devised an intricate sign
JUST A LOOKER-ON 137
language, that was worked by means of the fingers. I would watch them intently, and long to join in the fun, but somehow I never did. My manner was always so quiet and unobtrusive, that no doubt people forgot that I was there. Gradually this reserved and dignified way of mine grew upon me, until more and more I found myself relegated to the background.
Those school days were full of trying moments for me. I remember the spring recesses especially, when all of the little girls would bring out their skates, and jumping-ropes. Of the former I was terrified, and of the latter I knew scarcely more. So when the morning recess bell would ring, and we would hurry out to the playground, the other girls would go to their games, and I would be left standing aimless and alone. Just for the pleasure of being included in one of these groups, I would stand and turn a rope all recess time; never thinking of taking my own turn at jumping. And when occasionally some generous little girl would invite me to jump, I would be so timid and afraid of failing, that I would never take the chance.
Then when the noon bells began to ring, I would hurry home for lunch. It meant walking fast both ways, and necessitated my practically bolting my meal; but even this seemed preferable to remaining at school. Two or three times, I had taken my lunch with me, and had eaten it in one of the empty rooms. But the eating of my lunch took only a small portion of the hour at noon. Then there was the rest of the time to dispose of. And so, because I had no one to walk arm in arm with around the playground, and murmur childish confidences to, this noon hour I had always spent in hurrying home to lunch.
Then there were the afternoon dancing lessons that had to be gone through with. These periods came twice a week, and no matter how I longed to be taken conveniently ill just before them, they usually had to be faced. On these afternoons we would select our partners, and then would be instructed in simple folk dances. How awkward I would be! And simply through self-consciousness and nervousness I would horribly bungle the steps. Helen, the class beauty, whose long curls were the envy of all the other little girls, was always the first to be chosen. I was always among the last. Then one day our teacher reversed the natural order of things, and told the girls to invite the boys to dance. I asked Manual, who was one of the most popular boys in the room. How the others did laugh! Even the teacher could not repress a smile. Manual, himself, groaned and sighed and wriggled away. That day it was hard to keep the tears back, but I managed to do so, and simply became quieter and more reserved than ever. But, under that dignified exterior a little girl's heart was being crushed and smothered.
My parents did not realize that I needed help. Indeed they.
138 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
had given me a good home, wholesome food, clothes, and books, and a certain amount of grown-up love. But what they did not provide, and what I needed and wanted most, were young friends, parties, and happiness. And this is all typified in the story of our valentine box at school.. It was February fourteenth, and the students in our room always exchanged valentines. Then on the way home, we would count the number we had been sent, to see who had received the most. I intended to send a number of valentines; but my heart sank at the thought of the pitiful few that I would receive. If could see the group of girls walking home, counting their valentines and comparing them with my small number. So, in desperation I purchased five or six more than I had needed, wrote my own name on their backs, and sent them to myself. It was deceitful, but it was the only way I could face my classmates.
Of course, I am older now, and such memories no doubt seem less important. Yet those childhood days were really the foundation of my later life. For I am still shy and backward. I am still aloof and reserved. And while I long and always shall long for friends, and to be included in the midst of good times, still I am only a looker-on.
Song of the Wind Rebecca S. Wetzel
The blush of spring is everywhere, The winds no longer sigh, But chant a droning melody, That would a muse defy.
And through the fragrant orchard, Where trees are all a-bloom, You'll hear the gentle murmur,? Of the wind's enchanting tune.
I'm life to you the wind sings, I teach you how to grow, By swaying to my rhythm, Your sap begins to flow.
So when you see in springtime, The graceful swaying trees; You'll know that they are dancing To the music of the breeze.
Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman
Northern States Mission (Detroit Branch.) The Relief Society of the Detroit branch of the Northern States mission has done most excellent work during the past year. Besides the regular lessons, the Society has been active in the field of genealogical study and research. The mothers' committee carried out a most successful program. They first established a maternity chest, and later placed health bulletins in the hands of members: 1638 bulletins in sets of 26 were presented to 63 mothers. Prenatal letters, a series of 10, were also sent to 9 expectant mothers.
Australian Mission. On November 16, 1926, a Relief Society branch was organized at Sydney, Australia, under the direction of President Charles H. Hyde, and Mrs. Carrie S. Hyde, president of Australian Relief Societies. There were eleven charter members, some of whom had belonged to the Relief Society in England and other conferences. All of the eleven members have subscribed for the Relief Society Magazine. The officers are: president, Mrs. Edith Woodford; counselors, Mrs. Edith Seaich and Mrs. Barbara Bain; secretary-treasurer, Mrs. Elizabeth Brady.
140 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Northcentral States Mission. Mrs. Harriet H. Allred, president of the mission Relief Societies, writes that all the branches have been visited during the year, and a conference held in each. The Winnipeg branch made quite a lovely selection of fancy work and quilts and held a profitable bazaar. They also gave a very successful Thanksgiving dinner, at which over a hundred were seated. This was followed by a musical evening. The Harlem, Montana, branch sends in favorable reports to mission headquarters. They have also held a successful bazaar and are holding meetings regularly. The branch at Minneapolis is very much alive and appreciates the lessons outlined. They hold very successful meetings. In connection with. He social service lessons they are taking a short course in child welfare, given by the University of Minnesota. They held a bazaar recently, at which they cleared $103. They have also raised funds from newspaper sales. From the last sale of this kind they realized over $9. Another sum of $10 was received from a Frigidaire company, which offered an award to a group of ladies, of any denomination, numbering over twenty, which would attend their demonstration. The St. Paul branch reports a good spirit prevailing. They have held a bazaar and also several basket parties.
Twin Falls Stake. The Relief Society officers conducted a convention at the opening of Fall work. All phases of Relief Society work were outlined in talks and demonstrations, each ward in the stake as well as the stake board contributing to the following program: Opening address, President Kate Kirkman; song, Buhl ward; talk on recreational work, Kimberly ward; rest exercise, Twin Falls ward; "How to Teach," stake board; talk on social service, Twin Falls ward; chorus, Twin Falls Relief Society; talk on enlistment work, stake board; Demonstration on teaching in the home, Murtaugh ward; teachers' work, stake board. Dainty refreshments were served, followed by folk dances and games. The Twin Falls ward Relief Society conducted a very successful bazaar and chicken dinner from which the sum of $250 was cleared. An additional $250 was taken from the treasury, making a total of $500, which was given to the new tabernacle fund. Emma Lucy Gates appeared recently in Twin Falls in a concert recital. She very generously offered her time and talents to the Relief Society for a second concert,. To which she presented all Relief Society members with free tickets. Other tickets were sold, from which $100 was cleared. This was also given to the tabernacle fund. The whole stake was grateful for the kind act of Utah's talented singer.
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 141
Mount Ogden Stake.. In July a Home Nursing course of fifteen lessons was given at the Dee Hospital under the direction of the Red Cross. Two board members and six members from the various wards availed themselves of this opportunity and received their certificates for the work done. The course was sponsored by the four stakes in Weber county, each stake sending a member from each ward. On July 15, Mt. Ogden stake had a very successful field day at Lagoon, at which 225 were present. September 29, a luncheon was given by the board members to eighty: five people, including the stake presidency and their wives, past and present members of the Weber stake Relief Society board, all ward presidents, counselors, secretaries, organists and choristers of the stake Relief Societies. After luncheon a short program was given, and presentation of gifts to past first counselor Elizabeth D, Thomas, who resigned a few months ago, also to Emma B. Shreeve, stake class leader, who also resigned on account of ill health, in recognition of the splendid work done by them. On October 24, successful Relief Society conferences were held simultaneously in all of the wards of the stake, at which board members were present. The work and business meetings have been most successful in 1926. Besides other work, during the year thirty demonstrations have been held on such work as the making of pockets and bound button-holes, pressing and cleaning, flower making, millinery, salads, soups, sandwiches, cottage cheese, etc., etc., The meetings were held regularly throughout the Summer months in all the wards. Great interest has been created for the work meeting by the splendid efforts put forth by the officers and those called into this special work. The visiting teachers are also doing excellent work. Once each month one of the wards spends a day sewing at the Dee Hospital. During the year 1004 articles were made. St. George Stake. The St. George stake Relief Society held a visiting teachers' contest during the past year. Eleven of the wards attained 100% efficiency. Qne year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine was presented to the winning wards. The Enterprise ward has arranged to give the toxin anti-toxin treatment to the children of their ward. Over 200 applications for the children have been received. The Relief Society has now secured the cooperation of the Town Board in this movement. Kolob Stake (Springville First Ward.) Tuesday, November 30, 1926, a social afternoon was given in honor of the officers of the First ward Relief Society, by the class leaders. The program was as follows: Hymn, "Scatter Sunshine," by the congregation; prayer; violin solo; humorous 142 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE stunt, "The Dumb Waiter,' Theological department; reading, "How Columbus Discovered America" literary department; piano selections. The crowning event came from the social service department. It was the rendition of "Cornelia," as given in the November Magazine. Parowan Stake. In addition to the regular Relief Society work outlined in the Magazine the Parowan stake has had various special activities in all the wards, such as bazaars, fairs, special entertainments for the old folks, banquets, contest work, lectures by eminent speakers and numerous others. 'The wards now number eleven with the creation of the \Parowan East and Cedar Third, this year. The majority of the wards own their own halls, either bought or built outright, furnished and equipped by the efforts of the niembers. Block teaching has been aided materially by the earnest work of the supervisors, 100% being reported in some wards. Successful conferences have been held in all wards during 1926. Two or more visits have been made to each ward by the stake board members. Taylor Stake. Early in the year the Taylor stake held a teachers' convention. The stake officers with some little help outside, put on a little play, showing how the visiting teachers should conduct their visits in the home, and how the hostess should treat the visiting teachers. After this demonstration an ideal work and business meeting was given, the teachers separating from the rest of the meeting for their reports and topics, while the remaining members worked on articles for the bazaar, which they had up for exhibition. (Following this demonstration the little play, "Out of Work," was presented. Over 75% of the visiting teachers of the stake witnessed these demonstrations, which were put on in every community. On September 21, programs were held in honor of "Motherhood" in afl the wards, and prizes were offered to the following mothers: the oldest member of the Relief Society (there was one sister who had been a member 56 years, three who had been members 51, and one, 49, and one 48),; the one with the best attendance at Relief Society; the teacher with the best record for visits and for using the topic; the one with the largest family (one mother 'present who had had 16 children, four who had had 14); the one who had had triplets (two mothers present); the one with the largest number of sons (several with 10); the one with the largest number of daughters (some with 10); the one who had twins (27 mothers); the oldest mother; the youngest mother; the one with the youngest baby. Some of the wards gave prizes for the oldest and youngest great grandmother and the youngest grandmother. Very good programs were arranged for NOTES FROM THE FIELD 143 this. Day, on the subject of motherhood. In one of the wards the members came dressed in costumes, representing the styles from 1847 until 1926; in another ward 18 members were dressed to represent the first Relief Society, and the one representing Emma Smith gave a brief synopsis of the organization of the Relief Society. During 'the latter part of September and the first part of October, Sunday Relief Society ward conferences were held in each ward, and with musical numbers arranged for by the ward officers, the following topics were given: "What membership in the Relief Society means to the L. D. S. Woman," by a board member; "Accomplishments of the Relief Society, General and Stake, 1925," by board member; Report from the ward president; "What the Relief Society means to my Ward," by the bishop of the ward. On October 15, the stake board entertained the executive officers of the wards. 'One feature of the entertainment was the placing about the room of '15 little water-colored paintings representing writings taken up in the literary department, and the one getting the largest number correct, was given a nice painting for a prize. Most of those present got at least 50% correct, and some over 70%, which indicated that they had remembered their literary work very well. Games and refreshments were enjoyed. The following report card is sent out to each ward for a monthly report: Number of officers enrolled; Visiting teachers; Members; Average attendance, officers; Average attendance, visiting teachers; Average attendance, members; Number of visits of stake officers; Number of prayer meetings held; Number of meetings with bishop; Number of preparatory officers' meetings; Number of districts visited; Work and business day feature; Weekly music practice; Number: prepared with lesson; (careful reading considered prepared); Number endowed for; Report on scriptural reading. In some of the wards a comparative report of the present month with the preceding month is put on the board, so all members can see whether or not the Society is progressing. This report is proving very beneficial, especially in getting the members to read their lessons, and do their scriptural reading: Garfield Stake. At the beginning of the year 1926 Garfield stake Relief Society headquarters at Antimony, Utah, instituted what was termed an "efficiency contest." This contest had a two-fold purpose: first to have every home in the stake visited monthly by ward teachers, and secondly to increase the attendance at ward Relief Society meetings. Two prizes were offered, one for 100% teaching, which meant that every home in every district must be visited before the monthly report meeting, and one for the greatest increase in attendance of the active enrollment in the ward. At the end of June, when the contest closed, six of the eight wards 144 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE reported 100% teaching. In the other two wards the teaching was done, but one district in each ward failed to report until after report day. Boulder ward, an isolated district, so scattered that some of the women have to go five miles to meeting, won the attendance contest, having an average of 82%. The prizes given were six copies of Heart Throbs, and one to Boulder of the combined copy of the Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants and the Pearl of Great Price. For the summer months, July, August and September, the following program was carried out in the wards: The first and second Tuesdays were held as usual. Vor the third, or literature day, the ward Relief Societies staged the Booth Tarkington play Station Y Y Y Y, charged a very small Admission, and turned the proceeds over to the stake. The other meeting in July was an outdoor picnic for all married people. All wards reported a most excellent time. Literature day of August was taken up by a lesson on Gene Stratton-Porter, followed in the evening by her motion picture, "The Keeper of the Bees." The social service day of August was placed in charge of the community extension leader for instruction in salad and sandwich making. In September the lives of two former Relief Society General Presidents, Eliza R. Snow and Emmeline B. 'Wells, were discussed, and for social service work there was special instruction in plain sewing and pattern cutting. The teachers have been most willing and diligent workers. It is felt by the officers of this stake that much of the success achieved in Relief Society work this year is due to them. Each ward has held, as suggested by the stake, a teachers' preparation meeting the first Monday night of each month. In this meeting the teachers' topic and teachers' problems have been discussed. Two teachers' conventions were held in the stake in September, one on each side of the Escalante Mountain. Mrs. Annie Wells Cannon, of the General Buard, who was attending the group convention, and Elder Charles F.E. Rowan, president of the stake, attended the first convention. This convention included the two Escalante wards and Boulder. The other, held later at Junction, included Widtsoe, Marion, Kingston, Circleville and Junction. Elder Joseph Epson represented the stake presidency at this convention. Both meetings were exceptionally well attended by the teachers, the program outlined by the General Board was followed most successfully, and the teachers expressed themselves as having been very greatly benefited. Rigby Stake. A very splendid Relief Society teachers' conference-convention was held in the Rigby Stake tabernacle, September 24. Roll call showed all the stake board members present except two, and a large number of officers, teachers and members from each ward. There were also present members of the stake presidency, and NOTES FROM THE FIELD -145 high councilmen and bishops from several of the wards, together with representatives from Idaho Falls stake, Yellowstone and Teton stakes. In addition to excellent musical numbers the following topics were discussed: The Work and Business Meeting: The Value of the Teacher to the Association and the Community; The Use of the Teachers' Book; The Object and Time of the Teachers' Visit; Spirit and result of the Teachers' Visit. Mrs. Mayme Laird, president of the Relief Societies of the Idaho Falls stake, gave an interesting talk on Child Welfare and Maternity Work, and President Lucy P. Lloyd of the Yellowstone stake Relief Societies, and President Josiah Call of the Rigby stake, also addressed the convention. During the noon recess a delicious luncheon was served to 235 people. Curlew Stake. During the past year a Relief Society conference has been held in each of the ten wards which are widely scattered, the nearest being four miles, the other wards ranging from eighteen to forty-six miles. It requires much faith, patience and sacrifice to visit them all. These conferences have been favored with the presence of members of the stake presidency, ward bishopric, members of the stake Relief Society presidency and board members, all of which has been greatly appreciated. They have been among the most pleasant and profitable meetings of the year. In July a Relief Society teachers' convention was held, being well attended by presidents, teachers, and members of the various wards. One number of the program especially well given was the demonstrating of the teachers' topic, "Patriotism," by members of the board. It filled the teachers with a desire to carry messages of peace and love and loyalty into every home. In the early part of September a very successful. Health conference was held at Holbrook, Idaho, under the auspices of the Bureau of. Child Hygiene of the State of Idaho, assisted by members of the stake Relief Society. Many mothers and babies were examined by a lady doctor, assisted by several nurses. It was felt that much good will result from this clinic. Maternity bundles have been placed in every ward. Recently the stake Relief Society, assisted by ward presidents, entertained in honor of the Curlew stake presidency, high' counselors and bishops in the Holbrook Hall, with President Rebecca Cutler presiding. A splendid program was given, consisting of appropriate songs, readings and musical numbers. One outstanding feature of the program was "A Message of Appreciation," given by one of the board members, in which she expressed the feelings of the stake board regarding the splendid support and cooperation given to the board by the local workers and the priesthood. Following the program a delicious tray luncheon with an abundance of fruits and melons was served to all present.. Guide Lessons for May Theology and Testimony THE WOMEN OF THE MESSIANIC DISPENSATION (Continued) LESSON I (First Week in May) MARTHA AND MARY OF BETHANY The third and fourth in line of great women are Martha and Mary. These two women came into prominence through being privileged to entertain the Savior. They are known as the sisters of Bethany. Bethany is a small village outside of Jerusalem, not far from the Mount of Olives. Whatever this village may have been in the time of the Savior, today it consists only of a few mud houses with fewer inhabitants. It is practically a deserted village. Both Mary and Martha appear to have been exceptional entertainers; one with a special interest in providing for the physical comfort of guests, and the other, gifted with that ability which supplies spiritual enjoyment. The home of these sisters seems to have been the frequent resting place of the Lord, during his ministry; and he was affectionately interested in the family consisting of Lazarus, whom he raised from the dead, and the two sisters. In fact the Bible expressly tells us that Jesus loved them. The hospitality of these sisters was not limited to the capacity of their own home, {for they were chief hostesses at a feast at the house of Simon the leper. This house might have been rented for the occasion. In any event, just why they were here is not made clear. Martha comes into historical prominence in her own home. When Jesus said what is recorded in Luke 10:38-42, the name of Martha became immortal. Her over-anxiety and worry brought from the Master a most concise address on values. Without detracting from the value and interest in physical things he pointed out the incompleteness of life without a major interest. Undoubtedly Mary as well as Martha was interested in the supper and might have served at the table, but her preference led her to a service more spiritual than temporal, and this choice of placing the spiritual before the temporal is what Jesus called "that good part; the one thing needful." It was not the special form GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 147 of entertainment given to the guest, so much as it was the giving of preference to the spiritual that Jesus emphasized. Mary came into everlasting prominence at the time of the feast given in honor of 'Jesus at the house of Simon the leper. Mary and Martha appear to be chief hostesses at a feast given in appreciation of the restoration of their brother. The people gathered at the house came with a variety of motives. Some were eager to hear any message of truth that might fall from the Savior's lips. Others were anxious to find some occasion for further condemning the Master, while yet others sought some grievance against Lazarus, for they feared the effect that his return from the dead might have upon the people. It was on this occasion that Mary took "an alabaster box of ointment of spikenard, very precious; and she brake the box and poured it on his head." and Jesus proclaimed her services as an anointing for his burial and prophetically declared the fame of her name to the end of time in these memorable words "Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world, this also that she hath done shall be spoken ~ of for a memorial of her." (Mark 14:9.) It is certainly no small fame to have one's name linked with that of the Savior '"'wheresoever this gospel shall be preached." No such promise was made to the woman who entered the house of Simon, the Pharisee one who was a sinner, took an alabaster box and "weeping began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment." (Luke 7:36-38.) The Lord recognized all that this woman did as prompted by the spirit of gratitude, and her compensation was the assurance from Him that her sins were forgiven. The chapter under the caption, "In the House of Simon the Leper" Jesus the Christ, by Talmage, page 510, will prove of interest to 'our readers. Questions and Problems 1. Prove by a comparison of the proceedings at the meal served at the home of Simon, the Pharisee, and the entertainment at the home of Simon, the leper, that Mary of Bethany was not the woman spoken of as a sinner. 2. Correlate the first commandment of the decalogue with the lesson on values given by the Savior to Martha. 3. Discuss the desirability of having Mary and Martha in one individual. 148 UE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in May) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR MAY?CIVIC PRIDE Improving outside of houses, churches, school houses; repairing, painting, etc. Repair doors, screens, windows, fences, gates, porches, floors, foot-bridges, etc. A survey of your own premises may reveal many needs. (A school teacher recently called at a home where as a boy, he delivered milk. He was surprised to find the same horse-shoe nail holding the door knob, which as a boy he dreaded as he frequently hurt his hand upon the nail. The proper screw could have replaced the horse-shoe nail at the cost of one penny.) Renew exterior of buildings with suitable paints and kalsomines. (Paint protects wood, lengthens its life, and reduces fire hazard. It also beautifies the buildings. ) The following summary of work done by one community deserves special recognition. It shows strikingly the many lines of activity that entered into the campaign: Number of days of organized clean-up work 20. Number of people out to Work 436 Number of old buildings removed -...........11 Number of towns improving source of water supply............1.. Number of towns improving method of sewage disposal.............1. Number of public buildings painted............14 Number of public buildings removed.....17 Number of public buildings inspected for fire...... 6 Number of business buildings painted 16. Number of business buildings renovated 18. Number of business buildings inspected for fire...........3. Number of public grounds beautified 12 Number of private grounds beautified 109 14. Number of vacant lots cleaned Up........11 15. Number of new roads built ?4 16. Number of new bridges built 35  Number of new homes built.8. Number of homes improving source of water.........15. Number of homes improving sewage disposal 8. Number of homes painted 42. Number of fences painted 10.. Number of homes screened against flies?33. Number of loads of old manure removed....400 24. Number of loads of garbage hauled on clean- -up days...145. Number of new barns built...6   26. Number of old barns torn 7 27. Number of new lawns made ..16. Number of persons who planted trees and shrubs......58 29. Number who planted flower gardens....... 278 30. Number who cleaned up the front yards...568  31. Number who cleaned up back yards........490 32. Number of side walks built10 33. Number of new fences Built 17  34. Number of new gates Built 33 GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY 149 LESSON III  Literature (Third 'Week in May) CHARLOTTE PERKINS GILMAN Charlotte Perkins: Gilman is rightly regarded one of the foremost women of America at the present time. She was born July 3, 1860, in Hartford, Connecticut, and is now making her home in the state of her nativity. Mr. Gilman is her second husband. Her first marriage was to Mr. Stetson by whom she had one child, a daughter. She is well known among the groups of women who have made a struggle for larger freedom and a fuller life for women. Her name is found among those who led the fight for suffrage. Practically all the votes that have been taken, in recent years, in an effort to determine who are the ten or twelve outstanding women in America have contained her name. She is a philosopher, and does much of her thinking in what might be called philosophic terms. The Germans early discovered this trait in her writing, consequently she was a welcome guest in their midst. When she visited the International Council of Women, held in Berlin, they made very good use of her. She would address a group of people that entirely filled the hall, and as soon as they had gone, another group would take the place of the one gone. This was repeated four or five times each day. She is a natural reformer. She stopped a young man in one of our Utah towns who was riding a bicycle on the sidewalk and asked him why he did it when it was against the city ordinance. She noticed a natural embankment that was being destroyed and made unsightly through carelessness and lack of civic pride, and remarked, "If that unsightly bridge were removed the bank following the natural course of this stream could be made a spot of exceptional beauty." I am sorry that Mrs. Gilman has not been able to visit the place in recent years and observe that the old, tumbled-down bridge has been removed and that the embankment is now made beautiful with ornamental shrubbery. Mrs. Gilman is a thinker. She turns things over in her mind, asking the why and wherefore of it all. If there is not good and sufficient reason why old forms should be adhered to, then she is perfectly willing to discard them and put in their place new things. Her mind is exceedingly active, she is always analyzing and examining. There are very few women on the platform as brilliant and as clever as she. For years she has visited university centers, 150 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and other places of culture, and delivered lectures. She is equal to any audience. She is one of the best examples I have ever known of a person whose prestige is born of a clear brain and a clever tongue. She is medium-sized and of a very slight figure, with dark, snapping eyes. While she is comely enough she is in no way a woman who would be styled beautiful, and yet there is that in the brilliance of her mind, and the extreme cleverness of her speech, that holds her audiences spellbound. She has also invaded the field of child welfare. Many years ago Mrs. Gilman pointed to the fact that homes are built for grown-ups and not for children. She told us that the steps of a house are made for the adults as are practically all the pieces of furniture that are to be found in the home. Today we are living in a period when educators are demanding that places be built and furnished to meet the little people's needs. Out of this theory, and another which is receiving great emphasis, which is that the early years are the years in the child's life that are of immense importance, many persons are becoming very prominent in educational circles. In the field of letters she is versatile. She once published a little magazine for which she did all the writing. The poetry, the story, the philosophic articles and the editorials were all her own. She comes by her literary gifts honestly, for she is of the Beecher family, counting among her relatives the great preacher, Henry Ward Beecher, and the novelist, Harriet Beecher Stowe. There are about. Twelve books to her credit, her best works being: Women and Economics (1898), and Human Work (1904). Her volume of verse, In This Our World (1898), to use the words of Untermeyer "hurls many a shaft of ironic wit." Her poem "A Conservative" is an attack on the type of person who stands in the way of progress. Mr. Untermeyer says that it is "a sub-acid satire not easily forgotten." A CONSERVATIVE The garden beds I wandered by One bright and cheerful morn, When I found a new-fledged butterfly, A-sitting on a thorn, A black and crimson butterfly All doleful and forlorn. I thought that life could have no sting To infant butterflies, So I gazed on this unhappy thing With wonder and surprise, While sadly with his waving wing He wiped his weeping eyes. GUIDE LESSONS FOR MAY Said I, 'What can the matter be? Why weepest thou so sore? With garden fair and sunlight free And flowers in goodly store,'? But he only turned away from me And burst into a roar. Cried he, ""My legs are thin and few Where once I had a swarm! Soft fuzzy fur?a joy to view? Once kept my body warm, Before these flapping wing-things grew, To hamper and deform!" At that outrageous bug I shot The fury of mine eye; Said I, in scorn all burning hot, In rage and anger high, "You ignominious idiot! Those wings are made to fly! 3x) "I do not want to fly," said he, "I only want to squirm!" And he drooped his wings dejectedly, But still his voice was firm: "I do not want to be a fly! I want to be a worm!" O yesterday of unknown lack, To-day of unknown bliss! I left my fool in red and black; The last I saw was this,? The creature madly climbing back Into his chrysalis. 151 A poem full of stimulating and suggestive thought is that entitled "If a Man May Not Eat Neither Can He Work." We include it: If A Man May Not Eat Neither Can HE Work How can he work? He never has been taught The free use of what faculties he had. Why should he work? Who ever yet has thought To give a love of working to the lad. How can he work? His life has felt the lack Of all that makes us work; the proud, the free, Each saying to the world, "I give you back Part of the glory you have given me" We 152 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Why should he work? He has no honor high, Born of great trust and wealth and sense of power; Honor, that makes us yearn before we die To add our labor to the world's rich dower. How can he work? He has no inner strength Urging him on to action, no desire To strain and wrestle, to achieve at length, Burning in all his veins,?a hidden fire. Why should he work? There is no debt behind That man's nobility most longs to pay; No claim upon him,?only the one blind Brute instinct that his dinner lies that way. And that is not enough. Who may not eat Freely at life's full table all his youth, Can never work in power and joy complete, In fulness, and in honor, and in truth.
"His Own Labor" is a stimulating poem, particularly in view of recent discussion in Congress on the McNary-Haugen Bill.
His Own Labor
Let every man be given what he earns!
We cry, and call it justice. Let him have
The product of his labor?and no more!
Well, then, let us begin with life's first needs,
And give him of the earth what he can make;
As much of air and light as he can make,
As much of ocean, and sweet wind and rain,
And flowers, and grass, and fruit, as he can make.
But no, we answer this is mockery:
No man makes these things. But of human wealth
Let every man be given what he makes,
The product of his labor, and no more.
Ah, well! So to the farmer let us give
Corn, and still corn, and only corn at last.
So to the grazier, meat; the fisher, fish;
Cloth to the weaver; to the mason, walls;
And let the writer sit and read his books?
The product of his labor?and naught else!
But no, we answer! Still you laugh at us.
We mean not his own labor in that sense,
But his share in the work of other men.
As much of what they make as he can buy
In fair exchange for labor of his own.
So let it be. As much of life's rich fruit?
The product of the labor of the world?
As he can equal with his own two hands,
His own supply of energy and skill!
As much of Shakespeare, Homer, Socrates,
As much of Wagner, Beethoven and Bach,
As much of Franklin, Morse, and Edison,
As much of Watt, and Stephenson and Bell,
Of Euclid, Aristotle, Angelo,
Columbus, Raleigh, and George Washington,
Of all the learning of our patient years,
Of all the peace and smoothness we have won,
Of all the heaped up sciences and arts,
And luxuries that man has ever made,?
He is to have what his own toil can match!
Or, passing even this, giving no thought
To this our heritage, our vast bequest,
Condemn him to no more of human help
From living men than he can give to them!
Toil of the soldiers on the western plains,
Toil of the hardened sailors on the sea,
Toil of the sweating ploughman in the field,
The engine-driver, digger in the mine,
And weary weaver in the roaring mill.
Of all the hands and brains and hearts that toil
To fill the world with riches day by day,
Shall he have naught of this but what one man
Can give return for from his own supply?
Brother?There is no payment in the world!
We work and pour our labor at the feet
Of those who are around us and to come.
We live and take our living at the hands
Of those who are around us and have been.
No one is paid. No person can have more
Than he can hold. And none can do beyond
The power that's in him. To each child that's born
Belongs as much of all our human good
As he can take and use to make him strong.
And from each man, debtor to all the world,
Is due the fullest fruit of all his powers,
His whole life's labor, proudly rendered up,
Not as return?can moments pay an age?
But as the simple duty of a man.
Can he do less?receiving everything?
"Hardly A Pleasure" is a bit of contrast work that is characteristic of some of the things that Mrs. Gilman does:
Hardly A Pleasure
She had found it dull in her city;
So had they, in a different mob.
She traveled to look for amusement;
They traveled to look for a job.
She was loaded with fruit and candy,
And her section piled with flowers,
With magazines, novels, and papers
To shorten the weary hours.
Her friends came down in a body
With farewells merry and sweet,
And left her with laughter and kisses,
On the broad plush-cushioned seat.
She was bored before she started,
And the journey was dull and far.
"Traveling's hardly a pleasure!"
Said the girl in the palace car.
Then they skulked out in the darkness
And crawled under the cars,
To ride on the trucks as best they might,
To hang by the chains and bars.
None came to see their starting,
And their friendliest look that day
Was that of a green young brakeman,
Who looked the other way.
They were hungry before they started,
With the hunger that turns to pain?
"Traveling's hardly a pleasure,"
Said the three men under the train.
She complained of the smoke and cinders,
She complained of the noise and heat,
She complained of the table service,
She complained of the things to eat.
She said it was so expensive,
In spite of one's utmost care;
That tipping the porters and waiters
Cost as much as a third-class fare.
That the seats were dirty and stuffy,
That the berths were worse by far.
"Traveling's hardly a pleasure!"
Said the girl in the palace car.
They hung on in desperate silence,
For a word was a tell-tale shout;
Their foul hats low on their bloodshot eyes,
To keep the cinders out.
The dirt beat hard on their faces,
The noise beat hard on their ears,
And a moment's rest to a straining limb
Meant the worst of human fears.
They clutched and clung in the darkness
While the stiffness turned to pain.
"Traveling's hardly a pleasure,"
Said the three men under the train.
She stepped airily out in the morning,
When the porter had brushed her awhile.
She gave him a silver dollar;
He gave her an ivory smile.
She complained to her friends that morning
Of a most distressing dream:
"I thought I heard in the darkness
A sort of a jolting scream!
"I thought I felt in the darkness
The great wheels joggle and swing;
Traveling's hardly a pleasure
When you dream such a horrible thing!"
They crept shuddering out in the morning,
Red spots with the coal's black stain.
"Traveling's hardly a pleasure!"
Said the two men under the train.
Questions and Problems
1. What message does Mrs. Gilman put over in her poem "If A Man May Not Eat Neither Can He Work?" Do you think her philosophy sound in this poem? If so, why? If not, why?
2. Discuss the poem "His Own Labor," and see how many helpful thoughts you can bring into the discussion.
3. What purpose had Mrs. Gilman in writing "Hardly a Pleasure?"
4. Do you think persons who have many blessings are prone to complain at trifles? If so, what do you think of the ethics of such behavior?
5. Point to some lines in "A Conservative" that justify Mr. Untermeyer's observation concerning "sub-acid satire." ?Pleasure?" 156 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LESSON IV
Social Service (Fourth Week in May)
SOCIAL PROBLEMS OF CHILDHOOD
The past discussions have indicated that the development of an individual is affected by his physical condition, by the degree of his mentality, and by his emotional experiences. This lesson and subsequent ones will deal with yet another set of factors that control the development and behavior of an individual. A child may be perfectly well physically, may have normal intelligence, and have no serious emotional problems, and yet be doomed to failure and unhappiness. The barriers that keep him from growth and expression are not to be found within his personality, but in the environment in which he finds himself placed.
The problems, created by the environment, may prove so serious that his development may be frustrated and affect his physical and mental wellbeing, and his emotional stability. The environment must be considered the world outside the individual, including his family, his home, his neighborhood, his city, his nation and the universe. Every person is a part of these various groups, and his life is affected by the nature of his contact with the social world.
The child's first social contacts are in his own home. If his home presents problems of poverty, ignorance, alcoholism, domestic infelicity, desertion, and divorce, his development and his attitudes will be affected by this environment. His schooling may be limited, he may be forced to enter industry early, he may run away from home, or develop hates and fears because of the unpleasant home life.
A neighborhood also colors the life of an individual. A child who plays in his own orderly yard, or in a supervised playground, with other agreeable, pleasant children, has a different set of experiences from one who has only a dirty, crowded street in which to spend his leisure. Deprived of normal play, the children spend time on the streets, hearing and admiring the neighborhood loafers and gangsters. An unsavory neighborhood may be the beginning of unwholesome habits and attitudes.
The civic life of a city and state is also an important part of a child's environment. Such matters as control of disease, school attendance, child labor, community recreation, supervision of public amusements, are city and state responsibilities. Failure of civic bodies to appropriate necessary funds for important educational and welfare programs results in lowered standards of health, education, economic independence, character and citizenship of the community.
The politics and policies of a nation are also part of an individual's social world. The industrial condition, the feeling between capital and labor, the condition of war or peace are all factors affecting numbers of individuals.
The universe including all physical phenomena, and man's struggle with nature and with other races of men, are also external forces that affect individuals. In man's struggle to protect himself and his tribe from enemies and to dominate nature, he has developed systems that give him strength. Civic bodies, industry, militarism, penal systems, etc., are parts of the machinery developed by man to give him power. From these institutions certain traditions and customs have developed, which are as much a part of man's environment as the concrete world. The traditions and beliefs of a group, known as its mores may be the cause of individual unhappiness, rebellion, and social ostracism.
With environment and civilization, as complex as it is in these times, it is apparent that many conflicts must occur between man and his social world. In some cases he can overcome the limitations set by his environment. In other cases he can learn to adjust to his sphere in life, and still find opportunity for expression and happiness. But in many instances he is helpless and defeated by the external world, and the only solution to his problem would be a changed environment.
In the social problems of childhood that are presented in the text, the maladjustments are not the inherent weaknesses of the child, but are the effects of social ills and conditions of which he is a victim. Because the environment includes not only the individual home, but all the other social forces that the individual meets in life, it is obvious that social problems are not confined in any one economic group. Social problems are not found only among persons of limited income, but are found in all classes of society. The rich child may be the victim of a broken home, of an alcoholic father, or of conditions that promote crime, or of preventable disease. He, too, may suffer if he opposes systems of government or is a pacifist during times of war.
It is true, however, that social problems are more acute and more difficult to modify when accompanied by poverty. A child of a broken home of rich parents may be deprived of a normal home life, but he is perhaps sent to a pleasant boarding school. The child of a broken home of poor parents may have his education ended early, and will enter industry prematurely. If the rich and poor boy both have conflicts with school or the law, the rich one may be protected by influence, and the poor boy may be sent to a reformatory. Poverty and ignorance are not the only social problems, but their existence makes the treatment of other problems more difficult.
As many of the social problems defy individual treatment, the hope for improvement must be a modified environment. How can a family combat poverty and its train of other evils?poor living quarters, ill-health, discouragement resulting in delinquency?if there is a serious unemployment condition in the community, or if the man's job does not pay a living wage? The solution to unemployment situations, to insufficient wages, to undesirable living conditions, and other such problems that affect whole groups of persons, must be treated by larger preventive measures. Social research is being directed into the causes of poverty, ignorance and preventable disease, and through group effort a better general social environment may be evolved. Education and cultivation of more tolerant attitudes may in time remove many of the social conflicts that cause unhappiness. Freedom of expression, on subjects of group custom, of government, of capital and labor conflicts, of militarism, of pacifism, should be the privilege of every individual. Children come into serious conflict with their elders, and individuals with the community, because of differences of opinion. Free expression and serious search for truth may do much to improve, not only the intellectual and spiritual world, but the concrete, external world where poverty, disease, exploitation, and war still victimize great numbers.
Reference?Challenge of Childhood, Dr. Ira S. Wile?Social Problems, Introduction, pages 231-237.
Questions and Problems
What is meant by environment?
What social problems in the home may have undesirable effects on a child?
How can a neighborhood influence an individual?
What responsibilities do the city and state have for a wholesome environment?
How do customs and traditions and beliefs influence a person?
What social problems affect both rich and poor?
Why is it impossible for the individual to overcome such problems as unemployment and poverty?
What improvements are needed in the environment of your community?

— FOR YOUR GARDEN Fresh, crisp Vegetables direct from back yard Garden bath for health and economy. Then those marvelous flowers plucked from the beds of those beautiful flowering plants. You can enjoy them all at a trifling cost for Seeds, Bulbs, etc., and a little enjoyable work. OUR BIG FREE SEED AND NURSERY BOOK IS A DEPENDABLE AND NECESSARY GUIDE Write For It Today Porter -Walton Company SEED AND NURSERY SPECIALISTS SALT LAKE (7 F 4) WE DON'T CARE Who tells you that radioactive water is not beneficial to the human system, so we are going to make this very emphatic statement right here, that any onc making that statement is doing so through IGNORANCE or KNOWINGLY TELLING YOU AN UNTRUTH. U. S. Government recognizes its great value, as do also many of the greatest Medical Doctors in this country and Europe. Thousands of people in Utah and Idaho and millions throughout the world are testifying to the wonderful benefits they have received. The time is coming when every one will be drinking radioactive water for it is nature's greatest gift to man. START ON THE ROAD TO HEALTH NOW. GET A LIFETIME RADIUM WATER JAR AND GET WELL AND STAY WELL. CALL OR WRITE US FOR A FREE BOOKLET. Mandis Sales Company 113 SO. MAIN ST. WAS. 1477 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine SS Ee ca ee 1 00 ow Na ay ay (Oe VP RBIIEING WW ONV EARNER ONL WW? [foleprot fasiery Vanity Hosiery Shop 22 EAST BROADWAY \ 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear letae Iki? Oo GABIBG OOO 0000000Ca000C0$1.95 Box of Three Pairs..............$5.50 Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Penmeeairnsee.-.. Caneee$1.50 Box of Three Pairs............0--$4.25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Ye IEW Oo CEI OO 000000000000$1.50 Box of Three Pairs............6.-$4.25 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, Chiffon. All Colors Per Pair.........+6Wie... Eee- $1.00 Box of Three Pairs.......--ececee$2.85 a_—— Q] A 33 pees ii sae $7,500 Travel and Pedestrian Ac: cident ' Policy, one year one FLIRTING WITH DANGER Why is there so much talk of "Safety First" if it be not true that dangers multiply with each passing year? We offer to old and new subscribers this unusual protection. For your own protection and the protection of your happen every day. Family Insure today. Dollar. Accidents Che Deseret News SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH fWhen Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Gs a PORTABLE NEW ry FOLDING ELECTRIC IRONER Made by the Manufacturers of the Famous Apex Suction Cleaner With all the convenience features for which you have been waiting One Wail Socket Furnishes ALL ELECTRIC Heat and Power FULL OPEN END EASY KNEE CONTROL FOLD BACK FEED BOARD SWINGING CLOTHES RACK EXTENSION END TRAY EASY RUNNING CASTORS NICKEL PLATED SHOE LOW OPERATING COST A flip of the lever converts it from an ironing machine to a q pressing machine. Irons The Entire Family Wash Phone or Write for Full Information Inter-Mountain Electric Co. Fr "fs Wanted a Business When to Enter! Collede Graduate to Sill This Vacancy - enter our school than TODAY! Now is the time to prepare for your future. L. D. S. Business College The Best Business Training School in the Rocky Mountains "Utah's Progressixe Commercial School" —WASATCH 1812— 4, When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine 43-69 EAST 4 SO. =" PHONE WAS. 354 my There will never be a better time to NN HERE 1$ HIGHPOWERED CLEANING HELP FREE World's largest selling vacuum cleaner sent to your home for free use. $8.50 set of attachments FREE with eachcleaner purchased. 161 So. State Sold by Wasatch 500 sinicieeréh Co. Utah Power & Light Co. Burial Clothes Temple and COMPLETE SUITS FOR MEN AND WOMEN Variety of Grades and Prices Prompt and Careful Attention To Mail—T elephone—T elegraph Orders. Open Daily, 9 a. M.—5 p. M. General Board Relief Society Phone Wasatch 3286 29 Bishops' Building, Salt Lake City, Utah a long time to present this opportunity S = _ X —, On Washing Machines During March Only WATCH FOR ANNOUNCEMENT IN NEWSE Qt ae FEBRUARY 27 Utah Power & Light Co. Efficient Public Service offer ever made on a dependable Washing Machine. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine (-— We have waited \ It's Here! The greatest Gyrafoam 'Washer GWITH CAST a o— oe In justice to yourself and family try a Maytag in your home for a free demonstration before you buy any washing machine, for performance— the ability to do your washing in your home as you would have it done is what counts as well as the conservation of the most valuable thing, Mother's energy. 1700 Maytags are bought each day. This is more than one-third of all washers made. There is a reason. Maytag Intermountain Co. Distributors 211 South State. Salt Lake City, Utah y, tCLEAN PEOPLE DESIRE CLEAN FOOD Most people are particular about what they eat and this fact, together with the low prices possible by our System, has enabled O. P. Skaggs System stores to be extremely popular in each community. No other grocery stores have attained the high degree of sanitation found in our stores. Try to drop into one of our stores and look around. You'll be surprised in many ways. O. P SKAGGS Offi ffictent Pigs System gus Salt Lake, Sugar House, Bountiful, Layton, Ogden, Magna, Tooele, Provo, Delta, Logan, Pocatello, Cheyenne, Grand Island, Hastings and Lincoln. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine MRS EMMA S CHEENEY., LAKE TOWN UTAH Demanded by all Good cooks because of its purity, full strength and wonderful: rich flavor. Approved and used for general household-and sacred purposes. When you ask your Grocer for Blue Pine Food | Products you are demanding the best. \ Dit Penny Vacuum Packed Shelled Walnuts >» Also Blue Pine Spices—Vinegar—
