[Vol55 | January 1968 | Page 35 | General Feature | Magazines | ]
[Address Delivered at the Officers Meeting of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 27, 1967]
[I did, he was gone." "And it was Widdy you saw?" asked Miss Riley. "Are you sure?" "Sure I am. I know all the kids on the street. Sometimes I play football or baseball on the lawn with them. Keeps me in shape. Most of them are pretty good kids. Wish we'd had some. But, anyhow, this Turner boy seems sort of strange—never really part of the gang. He'l]

TRANSCRIPT OF A CONVERSATION BETWEEN SUZANNE AND HER FATHER

(Suzanne is seven years old)

[ILLUSTRATION]

DAD: Did you ever stop to think Suzy, that you and I never seem to have an argument? I think it must be because you understand me better than the others do.

SUZY: If there weren't any arguments there wouldn't be any help for some of people's troubles. Sometimes it is good to have an argument.

DAD: That's a pretty deep thought, sweetheart, and I agree with you.

SUZY: The main thing is people should love each other.

DAD: Well, honey, you can be sure I love you. I love you with all my heart.

SUZY: You shouldn't just love one person. You should love everyone in the family. You should love thousands of people. Love is the most important thing there is.

DAD: I guess if everyone believed that—and I wish they did—there wouldn't be any divorces or riots or wars. This world would be happier.

SUZY: I wish you stayed home more, Dad.

DAD: Well, honey, you know I have to work hard to support the family, so we can have this nice house, cars, and clothes and everything. I want you children to have things better than I did when I was a boy.

SUZY: But, Dad, you shouldn't work on Saturdays and Sundays. You should spend more time with the family like Mr. Caine does with his. Life isn't just for working. Life is to live and to enjoy.

PERSPECTIVE
Vesta Nickerson Fairbairn

Man is given choices.
He who lives by the ocean's edge
Or waterfall's high mountain ledge
Hears no discordant human voices.

37

the Home
inside and out

MAKE A
HANGABOUT APRON
Shirley Thulin

When is an apron not an apron? When it's a "hang-a-bout." These new front coverups are so practical and so easy to make you will want several. The teenagers in the family will especially like them because they are so easy to slip into, and have no middle ties to pull in and crease their no-waistline dresses while they help with Sunday dinner.

This apron is made from a terry towel—nice for the cook who is constantly wiping her hands. Another handy feature is the easy-to-slip-into neckband, for keeping the hairdo in place.

You will need a large-sized kitchen towel or hand towel. Pick one which is bright and cheerful, and one that has fringe on the ends. You will also need the yoke pattern to a muu-muu or other round-necked slip-on garment, for the neck must be large enough to need no placket or other opening. For the yoke, choose cotton fabric of a bright solid color to match one of the colors in the terry.

TO ASSEMBLE

Cut out the yoke pattern. It will usually be four pieces (figure 1). Stitch both front pieces to both back pieces at the shoulders. Now you will have two circles with shoulder seams (figure 2). Turn up and baste a narrow hem ¼ inch around all raw edges of both circles (only turn the ¼ inch once).

Cut off the fringe from one edge of the towel. Make two small tucks in the towel, about two inches from the selvage edge as you baste the towel to the front edge of one of the circles (figure 3). Be sure to center the towel to the front part of the circle. Now place the other circle on top of the circle which has the towel basted to it, wrong sides together. Now zigzag, or bind with bias, the two circles together all around the outer edge and also around the neck opening. If you use bias tape, it will have to be top stitched across the edge where the towel is.

Now your "hang-about" is finished (figure 5).

38

Make a Hangabout Apron

[ILLUSTRATION: Figure 1 showing two curved pieces labeled "Front" and "Back" with "Cut 2" noted for each]

[ILLUSTRATION: Figure 2 showing two oval ring shapes with "Back" and "Front" sections marked, with dotted lines across the middle]

[ILLUSTRATION: Figure 3 showing an oval ring with "Back" section marked and "Tucks" indicated with arrows pointing to vertical lines at the bottom]

[ILLUSTRATION: Figure 4 showing a completed apron with decorative trim around the top oval opening and a face design on the apron body]

[ILLUSTRATION: Figure 5 showing the finished hangabout apron with floral decoration (roses in a vase) on the front panel]

39

FRENCH DRESSING

1 large onion, grated
1 c. sugar
1 tsp. salt
1/4 tsp. pepper
1/2 tsp. dry mustard
1 tsp. dry horseradish, or fresh, 
   if available
1 large bottle of catsup
use catsup bottle as measure filled
   with salad oil
use same bottle filled with vinegar

Combine ingredients.
Stir vigorously and serve over
lettuce or tossed salads.

GOOSEBERRY JAM

8 c. sugar
21/2 qts. washed and stemmed
   gooseberries

Place sugar in heavy kettle over medium heat. Stir continuously until sugar is dissolved. Do not let it turn brown. Add gooseberries and stir carefully until jam thickens. Small amounts do not take more than 12 to 15 minutes cooking. Pour into jars and seal.

TRIFLE

leftover yellow or white cake,        2 c. fruit
   broken into pieces               1 pkg. vanilla pudding mix
1 pkg. desired flavor Jello         1 can cherry pie filling
   or similar product              whipped cream

Prepare Jello as directed on package, using fruit juice as part of the liquid. Cool slightly and pour over the cake. Prepare pudding, cool, and add fruit (peaches, apricots, mandarin oranges, fruit cocktail, pineapple, fresh or frozen berries, bananas, or any combination). Chill and spread over cake and Jello mixture. Top with cherry pie filling and a layer of whipped cream or commercial whip, or a combination of both.

APRICOT JAM

1 gallon canned apricots            10 c. sugar
1 no. 2 can crushed pineapple       2 or 3 pkg. orange Jello

Cook apricots, pineapple, and sugar until fairly thick. Stir often. Remove from heat and add 2 or 3 packages of orange Jello. Store in jars in refrigerator or seal in sterilized jars.

Recipes
from
Harrogate

Norma Sepp
Harrogate, Yorkshire, England

40
