[WomansExponent | Vol4 | 1875 | May | Issue: 24 | Title: CHARITY. | Author: Unknown]

CHARITY.

	There is a vast deal said in this day about
charity, and judging from the writings of St.
Paul it was much-talked-of in his day. He al-
ludes to it as paramount to all the other gifts
of the Gospel. But is not this subject, like
many others, paraded before the world in a false
light? Probably there never were so many
charitable institutions and so much money
and means expended in this way as in this
age, which is called the age of enlightenment.
But that true charity which is full of compas-
sion for another's weaknesses and faults, of this
there seems to be a lack. To visit the sick, and
soothe and cheer them, to administer to want,
these are virtues; but to guide the erring, to
lift up the fallen, minister to the soul bowed
down by its own infirmities is a priceless bless-
ing. The principle is given, but little of the
practice. Propriety forbids it, (the world's pro-
priety) but the seeds of true and undefiled re-
ligion produces among other good fruit, a sen-
timent for which we have the Highest Exam-
ple, that of the Savior's life upon the earth.
	Giving money freely in a lavish way is not
always real charity; indeed it often leads to
serious evil and harm those upon whom it is
bestowed. It is easy charity; but to encourage
with kind words and deeds the unfortunate, is
food to the hungry soul. There is certainly a
lack of genuine charity now-a-days though
there is so much ostentatious parade about
it, and one cannot but feel ashamed to confess
like many other late inventions it is hard to
find the genuine article, but there are quanti-
ties of shams. It is worthier of a noble mind
where failures occur, to give credit for good in-
tentions, rather than for bad.
	These crude and cursory remarks may open
up to the reflecting a field of thought; but let
this suffice good friends, and as quaint old
Norris said: "These are our thoughts, we might
have spun the subject to a greater length; but
we think a little plot of ground, thick-sown, is
better than a great field that for the most part
lieth fallow."


[Column 1]
