LEADERSHIP IN THE STAKE Counselor Jennie B. Knight
Mrs. Jennie B. Knight began her discussion of "Leadership in the Stake" by saying, "A leader in any community is one who has intelligent understanding of the work that is to be

done, and is loyal and persistent in carrying out this work. A leader in Relief Society work must carry out the policies of the organization, and have vision of the work that is before her. Broad fields of vision will be opened during the sessions of the Relief Society conference, which will be a guide to our future work. Those among us who catch the vision and are able to make it practical in our work, will be the successful leaders."
One of the first requirements for a Relief Society leader is to have within her heart a testimony of the gospel, and a feeling that she has been called to her position through the Spirit of the Lord directing those who are in authority. Relief Society leaders, in their various callings, are representatives of the Lord, representatives of the stake priesthood president, representatives of the stake Relief Society president, and stand as proxies for the General Board in carrying the instructions of the board in all the communities where branches of the organization exist. Mrs. Knight asked her hearers to study the gospel and live the gospel in order that they might teach it more effectively. "If we have these three qualifications: that we know the gospel, teach the gospel, and live the gospel, then we are truly leaders." Mrs. Knight urged the stake leaders to be observant of the activities of other stakes, and to take advantage of the reports and suggestions which are offered through the columns of the Magazine in the "Notes From the Field" department. Stake leaders should be receptive to all good and progressive ideas in order that they may be able to better conditions in their stakes. They should read magazines and text books relative to the lessons which are outlined, and relative to the various phases of Relief Society work. Stake leaders should know not only the details of stake work, but of ward work as well. They should know whether the charity work is being looked after in the most efficient manner, whether the literary work is being received as it should be whether the work and business meetings are being conducted in a satisfactory way, and whether the teachers' work is proving beneficial, both to the teachers and to those whom they visit. The speaker emphasized the importance of careful planning for Relief Society meetings, conferences, and conventions. Regular stake board meetings should be held, in order that activities of the stake may be well planned, and in order that instructions from the General Board may be made known as soon as possible after their receipt, and arrangements made for carrying out the instructions in the various wards of the stake. The preparation for group conventions should receive serious consideration. Upon receiving notification of the date and program of the meetings of the convention, the Relief Society stake president should first consult her stake president, and acquaint him with the plan for the meetings, and then make arrangements for the rooms for the use of the Relief Society. Then the details of the arrangements should be very carefully worked out, so that when the women arrive at the convention, their time will not be wasted by having to go considerable distance for their department work, or by having to wait while chairs are brought in from other rooms. Mrs. Knight stressed the importance of Relief Society stake officers cooperating with the stake presidency, and ward officers cooperating with the bishops, which will insure the help and support of the priesthood authorities in the plans and activities of the organization. Afternoon Session