SoctaL SERVICE Mrs. Amy W. Evans, Member of General Board In preparing and analyzing this lesson on social service, the first step is to state that the aim of the lesson is obtained by getting a view of it as a whole.

The next step is a consideration of the points of the lesson to be emphasized, usually four or five.

In order to get these points each paragraph is studied by itself. 1 selected five points in the lesson which I think are of vital importance to all members of this organization who have the great responsibility of assisting human beings, human beings with problems that they themselves are unable to solve unaided.

The first paragraph calls for a discussion of the causes which force people to turn with hope and trust to the bishop, to the Relief Society, or to some other agency for help.

What are these causes?

I am sure if we had time for you to answer that you would say, sickness, unemployment, insufficient income, ill health, or perhaps some behavior problem among the members of the family.

When any one of these problems becomes acttte and cannot be handled alone, then the individual calls for help.

The next paragraph emphasizes that the person who gives help and assistance has a responsibility toward those she is helping.

What is this responsibility?

It is that the advice be sound and the assistance helpful.

I would take the time at this point in the lesson to discuss the term, helpful assistance.

It means a great deal.

It means that an individual or a group must be made stronger—never weaker; that their strength should be ministered to rather than their weakness.

This is a great point in the lesson.

It would be difficult to overestimate it.

Helpful assistance means opportunities for health, for education, for spiritual growth, and the inspiration to better living.

It is no exaggeration to call this work great.

Its results in the words of Tennyson, "roll from soul to soul and grow forever and forever." 
 In reading the next three paragraphs I find this question, and its answer, “What must the relief worker do to insure sound advice and helpful assistance to those with social problems?" After looking after the emergency with material relief, she must get an understanding of the problem as a whole.

This requires a study of the individuals concerned and the getting of concrete facts, also the correct interpretation of these facts.

The example given in the paragraphs just mentioned is that of a man, the head of a family, out of employment.

What does that social problem in~ volve and how shall we best solve it?

These are questions.

He must have a permanent job, if possible, one that he is capable of holding.

There are some facts that the relief worker must know before this can be done.

She must know the work history of the man, whether he works at a seasonable trade, whether he is an industrial misfit and perhaps has been struggling for years with a job for which he is not fitted.

The fact that the man is out of a job may be only a symptom of a more serious difficulty.

It is important that his likings and his aptitudes be known.

These facts and many others may be known by talking with him, by getting his family's opinion, and by consulting with former fellow workers and employers.

It is sometimes found that the man is not the only one involved, but that his wife and children are included.

If the man has been out of employment for a long time, they may have been seriously affected.

Are the children properly nourished?

What is the condition of their health?

Do they need the care of a physician or a dentist?

Are their educational opportunities being curtailed?

Is their spiritual welfare being looked after?

Do they have the necessary clothes to go to - Sunday School?

As you know, the five elements of normal life are health, education, employment or income, recreation, and spiritual welfare.

The social worker should know the school records of the children and the attainments of the different members of the family; she should know their capabilities and ambitions, in fact, a real sympathetic understanding of the problem as a whole.

She must know the income and whether it can be increased by the family, or supplemented by others in order that the family can live a fairly normal life.

After getting all these important facts and all others that are valuable, after getting an understanding of the individuals and the conditions surrounding them, and after studying the social problems from all angles, then the social worker is in a position to give the best advice and most helpful assistance.

The next point in the lesson is, What does it take to study a social problem thoroughly and get down to the bottom of the difficulty?

The answer is, time.

It cannot be accomplished in one visit.

It requires hours of patient service.

It takes some- thing else.

The lesson says it takes a deep understanding of human interest, or in other words, the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is the spirit of love-—love of God and love of humanity.

The last point in the lesson is that the relief worker must keep sacred the confidences of the individuals whom she is trying to help.

They must be able to trust her completely, and to feel that she is indeed a true and sincere friend.

If she cannot get their confidence, she is unable to help them to the fullest extent to solve their problem.

They must trust her and must feel that she is sincere.

In summing up the points of this lesson, I would say that the aim is to show what is required of a relief worker in studying a social problem; that the helper has a responsibility in making her advice sound and her assistance helpful; that this requires a study of the whole problem and the possession of all valuable facts, and a knowledge of all the conditions affecting the problem; that this takes time and the spirit of the gospel.

You cannot help others if you do not love them.

If you are not deeply interested in them, your help will be of no avail.

You cannot help people with an air that you are above them, that you are another sort of human being altogether.

You must have that love for them and that sympathy and human desire to be able to help them.

The last point is that the worker must keep sacred the confidences of those she would help, if she would be successful in studying their social problems.