HOW TO ANALYZE AND PREPARE LESSONS THEOLOGY Mrs. Julia A. Child, Member of General Board The first essential in preparing and presenting a lesson is to select the objective or aim of that lesson.

In the May lesson, three parables given by our Savior have been selected to teach certain specific lessons.

The first of these parables is the parable of the leaven.

"The kingdom of heaven is likened unto leaven which a woman took, and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened." Clearly, the purpose of giving this parable is to show the far-reaching influence of a great truth or principle.

We all know the power of a right idea.

We know when an idea is implanted in the mind of a child, or youth, or older person, that if that idea is deeply enough planted, it will go on and on and will'not die, but will act as the leaven in the meal.

If firmly rooted, good ideas and good-will go on until the whole world is leavened... The next parable is the parable of the hidden treasure.

It says, "Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a treasure hid in a field; the which, when a man hath found, he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field." This parable teaches us the value of the Kingdom of God.

In it our attention is called to the relative value of ideals.

Always through life we are confronted with the necessity of evaluating things, choosing that which seems the most desirable to have, whether it is good health or some other desirable thing.

We are always confronted with the necessity of choosing that which we would have.

Men must believe before they will act.

They must be devoted to their ideals before they will live for them or labor for them.

They must have a vision of what they hope to realize before they will make sacrifices to obtain that thing.

In this parable of the hidden treasure the finding of the treasure was a source of joy to this person.

But the appreciation of the value of that treasure awakened in him a desire io possess that treasure, even at the cost of all other possessions, The appreciation of this desire would not have been possible if the finder had been lacking a vision within him of the value of the treasure.

For example, take the converts to our Church.

After they have been thoroughly converted to the gospel, they will give up all they have previously possessed, if necessary, for the blessings of the kingdom of heaven; they will set aside all their -old customs, if necessary, for the testimony of the gospel.

When our young men and women are called upon missions, fathers and mothers do not count the cost in dollars and cents when they think of the experience this mission will give to the boy or girl, Brothers and sisters sacrifice willingly to help carry the gospel message.

This is a joyful sacrifice, for each one who helps feels that he has a part in the building up of the kingdom of heaven, and service in the kingdom makes him a part of the kingdom, and service in this kingdom is not too great a price for a blessing in the kingdom.

The third parable is the parable of the Pearl of Great Price.

"Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchantman seeking goodly pearls; who, when he has found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it." The Savior was an excellent teacher; he chose familiar things with which to illustrate his parables.

He chose the subject of pearls in this _ parable, because that subject was close to the experiences of the people with whom he was talking.

In that country the people invested most of their goods in jewels.

In that country there were often revolutions and invasions, and people had often to gather up their possessions and rush from the country, and if their wealth was invested in jewels they could carry them more easily than anything else.

The pearl was one of the most precious jewels they had.

For that reason the Savior uses it to show the value of the kingdom of heaven.

The purpose of the Savior in giving this parable was to show that a knowledge and appreciation of the kingdom of heaven with its privileges and blessings would lead one to place all other values in a lower plane, and any person seeking happiness and desiring to obtain eternal life would sacrifice all else for it.