[Vol11 | June 1924 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Reports from Missions]

After instructions by President Williams, reports were given and testimonies borne by Mrs. Jane W. Bates, President Alberta stake; Mrs. Fanny C. Harper, President of Juarez stake; and Mrs. Florence M. Knight, President of the Relief Societies of the Western States mission.
Questions which had been handed in during the conference were answered by President Williams as follows:
Steel Granaries: In all probability there will be no use for the steel granaries in the future, at least for some time to come. And therefore ward presidents of Societies that own such granaries should consult with their bishops regarding the advisability of selling them. The stake and ward officers are conversant with local conditions, and they can best decide what course to follow with regard to disposing of granaries.
Conferences and Conventions: In many of the stakes, group conventions are held annually, but wherever desired, an additional stake conference may be held. Visitors from the General Board will be in attendance at all group conventions and at the one official Relief Society conference held each year in those stakes where group conventions are not held. A ward Relief Society conference should be held every year in every ward.
General Conference Delegates: Should the stake president attend general Relief Society conference each time, or should she give each of her counselors a turn to represent the stake Relief Society at the conference? The president of the organization should attend the official (April) conference. It is a good thing to divide honors and privileges with the counselors and secretary; but the president, who is at the head of the stake organization, should, if possible, attend the official conference. Some presidents give each of the counselors and the secretary a turn in attending conference, and come themselves, as well. The General Board is always glad to see as many of the stake officers in attendance as is possible.
Summer Meetings: For many years the Relief Society has suggested that where the stakes wish to do so, they may adjourn their meetings during July and August, but this is not obligatory. Requests have come to the general office for programs for summer work, and the General Board has had under advisement the matter of preparing such programs, but it has been decided that
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 319
it would be best for the stakes themselves to plan their own summer work, so that each might follow whatever plan is felt will be of the most benefit in the locality.
Preparing Bodies for Burial: Some have asked if the ward teachers should assist in laying out the dead, or should the president do all that work. This matter is entirely optional with the wards. A president who has so many duties to perform should not be expected to do all this work.
Questions from Wards: All letters to the General Office from wards, containing questions about local work, are referred to the stake president of the locality for answer and instruction.
Maternity Homes: The General Board does not feel that it can give any specific advice in regard to maternity homes and their management from the fact that we might give instructions which we would think perfectly suitable, but which could not be carried out at all in your particular districts. But no matter where a maternity home might be established, a hospital-registered nurse should be in charge of the work, under the direction of the stake or ward president, who would be the direct head.
Visits to Wards by Stake Officers: The announcement made in the officers' meeting of the conference that stake officers should not visit wards too frequently, has caused some question as to just how often stake officers should visit wards. In districts where the wards are scattered, we are glad if it is possible for the stake officers to visit the wards at least once a year, and twice if possible. Some stake presidents are endeavoring to visit the wards twice a month. Some letters which we have received have indicated that this is considered too often. Wherever possible, a very ideal condition would be to visit the wards once a month. Visit a ward one month on the day when the