VITAL STATISTICS AND MATERNITY WELFARE

By Dr. T. B. Beatty, State Health Commissioner of Utah

Dr. T. B. Beatty, in his discussion of "Vital Statistics," stated that prior to 1905 there was no provision in the State of Utah for the registration of births and deaths. In 1905 a model law was passed. This law has stood the test of time, and is now being adopted as a uniform law all over the United States. It provides that there shall be appointed in the state, in every voting precinct, a local registrar whose duty it is to register births and deaths. The original certificate is sent to the State Board of Health, where it is filed and indexed in such a way that information may be furnished readily regarding any birth. The same is true of death registration. There are now filed in the vaults of the State Board of Health at the Capitol, the original certificates covering the births of 200,000 children who have been born since 1905; also the certificates covering the deaths of nearly all the people who have died since that year. Utah now has recognition in the Census Bureau as a registration state. When this recognition was granted in 1917, a representative of the Census Bureau who came to Utah found that the State Board of Health had the most complete record of birth certificates in the United States.

All states do not have provision for birth registration of babies, but do have provision for registration in the case of calves and pigs. In connection with this statement, Dr. Beatty told the story of a very important case which was brought up for settlement. The son of a wealthy man tried to cheat his own daughter of the estate which had been left to her. The settlement of the case hinged on establishing the birth of the daughter, and since there was no provision for birth registration in that state, no record had been made. Finally some one remembered that there was born on the farm of this man on the same day the child was born, a calf, and the calf was registered, and thus the child's birth was established.

Requests are constantly coming to the State Board of Health for copies of birth certificates, in order that passports may be secured. During the war it was pathetic to see the effort made to secure copies of birth certificates which did not exist. The value of birth registration is set forth in the following eleven reasons:

1. That the birth, date of birth, parentage and other essential information for governmental and identification purposes may be made a matter of official record.

2. That the ages of school children may be definitely known, making the proper enforcement of school laws possible.

3. That the laws affecting child labor may be effective and the children of the poor thereby protected.

4. That labor may become safer by the elimination of children under legal age from all hazardous occupations.

5. That the law-abiding employers of youth may be protected.

6. That prosecution dealing with "age of consent" may be settled by record and not by conjecture.

7. That litigation in matters of inheritance and settlement of estates may be simplified by the definite knowledge of the ages of all persons concerned.

8. That the American-born children of foreign-born parents may have indisputable evidence of American birth which will protect them from enforced military service when visiting the mother country of the parents.

9. That blindness may be prevented by prompt medical attention to the infected eyes of the new-born.

10. That infection and mortality among women may be prevented, and that young babies may be saved by immediate attention by existing agencies for the relief of the poor.

11. That the Bureau of Child Hygiene may carry out its duties efficiently.

Registration of deaths is also an important factor in the promotion of the health program of the state. Health officials work blindly unless they know where people are dying and from what causes. Registration of deaths enables us to determine how many deaths occur from preventable causes. It is the melancholy duty of the state health commissioner to scan the death certificates, and note the number of persons that ought not to be dead. A year ago the commissioner might have reported that he could not give the names of the fifteen hundred people who would die in the state in the next year of preventable diseases, but the names are available now. Registration shows that typhoid fever and measles kill more children than scarlet fever and diptheria; that twenty-five percent of infants die before they are a month old; that twenty percent of the entire death rate is among children under one year of age. A more strict observance of quarantine regulations would aid materially in lowering the death rate among children from contagious diseases.

Utah has the highest birth rate in the United States, which is over thirty children to each thousand of the population. The birth rate of the United States, outside of Utah, does not exceed twenty-four. Where there is a high birth rate there is usually a high death rate also. This is not the case in Utah; on the contrary, the death rate here is one of the lowest in the United States. This is an evidence of the good care which the children within the state are receiving. Reasons for registration of deaths are given as follows:

1. That there may be available, complete and accurate information as to deaths of all human beings, with dates of death and causes of death, to the end that preventable causes of death may be eliminated and human lives lengthened.

2. That the various public health agencies—national, state and municipal—and the various private agencies for the prevention of disease may have the data necessary for intelligent work.