[Vol11 | June 1924 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Conference Minutes Amy Brown Lyman]

THE Relief Society Magazine
Vol. XI JUNE, 1924 No. 6
Relief Society Conference Minutes Amy Brown Lyman, General Secretary
The annual conference of the Relief Society was held in Salt Lake City, April 2 and 3, 1924. The conference consisted of the following meetings: Session for general and stake officers; session for general and stake officers and ward presidents; stake presidents' meeting; and two general sessions for Relief Society workers and the public.
The representation and attendance was the largest yet recorded at a general Relief Society conference: 17 members of the General Board were present; only one being absent, and that on account of sickness; 87 of the 90 stakes and 5 of the 7 United States missions were represented. There were in all 512 delegates: 71 stake presidents, 4 mission presidents and 1 acting president, 72 stake counselors, 45 stake secretary-treasurers and assistants, 190 special stake officers and board members, and 137 ward presidents. The attendance at the Assembly Hall was large at both sessions, reaching 2,800 in the afternoon. The ushers from Granite stake gave able service in seating the people and in taking care of other necessary needs.
Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edward, general chorister, and Miss Edna Coray, general organist, assisted by the Relief Society Choir, furnished excellent music, consisting of both solo and choir numbers.
The General Board entertained the stake officers, two from each stake, at the oratorio, "The Elijah," given by the Tabernacle Choir. On Thursday evening the stake presidents joined together in giving a formal reception and banquet to the General Board at the Hotel Utah. This tribute of love and respect was greatly appreciated by the Board, and will be long and lovingly remembered by them.
274 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
OFFICERS' MEETINGS Morning Session
At the opening meeting, President

RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 309
Martin Luther commenting on this said, "When thou sayest, 'I will not forgive,' and stand before God with your pater noster, and mumblest, 'Forgive us our debts,' it is the same as saying, 'I do not forgive him, so do not thou God, forgive me.'"
In our homes let us not hold grudges one toward another, but seek and pray daily to find a way to forgive one another, remembering that forgiveness is like mercy, "It is twice blessed, it blesses him that gives and him that receives." If we could become as little children in this particular how much happier we would be, for whoever knew a little child who was not willing to forgive at the very first intimation of regret on the part of the offender; yes, and even before any repentance was shown on the part of the one who committed the offense.

Did not God say, "Except ye become as little children ye can in no wise enter the kingdom of God?"
To those who have been sorely tried and bitterly offended, remember it requires a prayerful, generous and merciful heart coupled with a strong will to forgive, but remember also, an unforgiving heart places a barrier between itself and God's forgiveness, for is it not written "He that forgiveth not his brother his trespasses, standeth condemned before the Lord, for there remaineth in him the greater sin." So let us each and all bury our grievances whether they pertain to our immediate family, our church, or our neighbor, and cover this pitfall that deprives us of happiness with a slab of forgetfulness and forgive as we hope to be forgiven.
