[Vol11 | June 1924 | Sequence: 09 | Category: Article | Title: Theology Julia A. Child]

theology and testimony meeting is held, the next month on the work and business meeting day, and so on. You will thus be able to find through these visits if there are any weaknesses in the work, It is not advisable for the whole board to visit one ward in a body; divide the board members and assign them to various wards to visit on a given day. We do not desire to dictate to you in this regard. This is only suggestive. The stake presidents must use their own judgment.
Attendance Records: Some stakes reported that in the summer months the members of the Society move away from the settlements to ranches, and are therefore unable to attend Relief


Society meetings, which makes a poor attendance record. President Williams explained that while the Relief Society is interested in a high attendance record, still we emphasize membership more than attendance. Many members of the Relief Society are homebound or bedridden and unable ever to attend the meetings; many women with small children are unable for long periods of time to attend meetings; but still they and we value their membership in the Relief Society, and desire to have them enrolled.
Legitimate Excuses: The reasons for marking absentees excused from Relief Society meetings have been confined to sickness and death. This ruling has been made to avoid having every absentee marked excused, whether she has good reasons or not for her absence. There are, of course, other good reasons for people to absent themselves from the meetings, but these reasons are hard to define; therefore, in the General Board, and in the stakes and wards, sickness or death should be the only instances for marking excused on the roll. Other absences should be merely marked absent.
Officers Should be Magazine Subscribers: The annual report shows that many Relief Society officers and teachers are not subscribers to the Relief Society Magazine. It is felt that any woman who is an officer or teacher in the Relief Society should feel the necessity of having the Magazine, and especially since the Magazine contains all the lessons, and the teachers' topics. Stake workers were urged to see that all stake and ward officers and teachers become subscribers. The price of the Magazine is only $1 and we are endeavoring to keep this price. Wards should be encouraged to bind the Magazines for the local Relief Society library, so that back numbers will always be available for reference. It is also a good thing for stake boards to have a set of the bound volumes of the Magazine for reference.
Funds: It is not the work of the Relief Society to raise funds for missionaries, although in some wards the bishops still seem to expect this. The Presiding Bishopric have emphasized the point that the raising of missionary funds is an activity for the Priesthood, and is not the work of the Relief Society. All Relief Society funds should be carefully guarded and used for the purpose for which they were donated. The Presiding Bishopric have ruled that the funds should not be taken arbitrarily from any Relief Society. The Presiding Bishopric have sent letters out to every bishop of the Church, requesting them to see that the Relief Society wheat money is sent to the Presiding Bishop's Office to go into the wheat trust fund. Through the importun-
RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE MINUTES 321
ing of some bishops and stake presidents, the Relief Societies have been asked to turn over their wheat funds. It is the duty of Relief Society stake presidents to keep their stake presidents advised of the fact that the wheat money is a sacred trust fund, that it is not to be used for any other purpose, except as is prescribed by the General Board and General Authorities, and that it is expected that where this money has been borrowed that it will all be returned to the Relief Societies, and placed in the trust fund which is under the jurisdiction of the Presiding Bishop's Office.
Relief Society Halls: The Presiding Bishop's Office has advised that separate Relief Society ward halls be not built. Where new chapels are being erected, quarters should be provided therein for the Relief Society. It is felt that it is a waste of money to build a hall which would be unoccupied except one afternoon a week, and that it is far more preferable that all auxiliary organizations be housed in the ward chapel. When Relief Societies are assigned a room in a ward chapel, however, they should not be contented with the darkest room in the basement.
Burial Clothes: Where burial clothes are to be sold there should be enough profit on the suits so that those doing the sewing can be paid. Where people are unable to pay for the sewing, the work should be donated. In providing clothing for the community, you are called on to provide clothing for those who can pay as well as for those who cannot pay. People who can afford to pay for other sewing, should not expect to have sewing done on burial clothing for nothing.
Quinquennial Meeting—International Council of Women: In May 1925 a great international congress of women will be held in Washington, D. C., and all women who are members of any of the organizations that are affiliated with the National Council will be expected to help a little in defraying the expenses of the convention. As Mrs. Lyman stated in the conference, your president has been appointed by Mrs. Moore, who is president of the National Council, to act as chairman for the state of Utah. There are about fifteen of the affiliated organizations represented in Salt Lake City, and in meetings with them we have found that in some of the cities of the state, there are a number of branches of the various organizations. There are the Club women, Women's Relief Corps, Women of the G. A. R., of the Service Star Legion, Y. W. C. A., etc. Representatives of these organizations were called together and chose as vice-chairman, Mrs. E. O. Wattis, president of the State Federation of Women's Clubs. A


member was chosen from each of the following organizations to act on the executive committee: Y. L. M. I. A., Y. W. C. A., Women's Relief Corps. Mrs. Lyman was appointed secretary of the committee. I am expected to appoint county chairmen, who, when the call comes, will make it their business to organize the counties, and assist in securing a fund to make up the quota for the state of Utah. We do not know yet how much that will be.
Now, we want to say to you stake presidents, that in all probability we will not appoint you as county chairmen, but we know that you will be loyal and that it will be your pleasure to do all you can to assist your counties in helping Utah to make the proper showing; and whoever we appoint should receive your co-operation and assistance. The county chairmen will of course be women who belong to one or another of the affiliated organizations of the Council. Our Relief Society women from other states will in all probability be approached by their state chairmen to give assistance, and we trust that all members of the Relief Society will take pride in contributing to this cause.