RELIEF SOCIETY NURSE AIDS' CLASS Mrs. Emma A, Empey, Member of General Board The General Board regrets very much that it is necessary to announce that the Relief Society course for nurse aids at the L. D, S. Hospital has been temporarily suspended.

This action was taken in order to protect the standards of the L. D. S. Hospital.

It is hoped by all concerned, however, that within a short time, the course may be resumed.

You are all aware of the fact that high schools, universities, hospitals, and other institutions must maintain certain established standards, in order to have recognition, and in order to have the graduates of such institutions recognized, and it seems that the ruling with regard to hospitals is that unless a hospital has two hundred beds daily occupied, the American standards will not permit of such hospitals having two schools for nurses.

Recently a hospital inspector was here from New York, making a survey of the various hospitals throughout the west.

She intimated to the L. D. S. Hospital that in all probability there would be objections by the Hospital Commission to the course for nurse aids.

Soon after her return to New York, a letter was received by Supt.

Grant, of the L. D. S. Hospital, stating that in order to maintain its recognition, the L. D. S. Hospital must discontinue the course for nurse aids, Supt.

Grant and the Board of Trustees of the Hospital appealed to the national rating organization for special permission to continue the course, explaining the great need of the course, and the splendid results from it.

In reply, word was sent that the course must be cut out at once, or the hospital would be dropped from the list of accredited institutions.

So the Nurse Aids Class has been discontinued, but it is hoped only temporarily.

The class which had been installed last August was retained, but the new applicants who came in the first of the year were referred to the County Hospital, where they all entered the threeyear course., Since there is a feeling throughout the United States that something must be done in the near future to supply practical nurses for the people of moderate means, it is felt by everybody concerned that it will not be long until arrangements will be made in various hospitals throughout the country for a course shorter than the three-year course.

In the meantime, Supt.

Grant will RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE make every effort to re-establish the course at the L. D. S, Hospital, and it is hoped that not much time will elapse before this is done.

The Relief Society will for the time being continue to make every possible effort to recruit nurses for the various Church hospitals, and the Salt Lake County Hospital, and the General Board asks as a special favor that stake and ward presidents continue their support in these matters, and encourage young women to enter the hospitals for regular training.