[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | March | Issue: 8 | Title: Public Reception | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

		PUBLIC RECEPTION. 
	The General Board of the Relief Society 
gave a public reception in the new Head-
quarters in the Bishop’s Building on Mon-
day, February 28, 1910, in honor of the 82nd 
anniversary of the birthday of the secretary 
(Aunt Emm. Wells). Although Aunt Emm. 
was born on February 29, 1828, and only 
has a real birthday once in four years, and 
in the year nineteen hundred there was no 
29th, yet her friends insist on a “make be-
lieve” birthday, three years out of the four. 
	The reception was from four o’clock to 7
p.m., and it is estimated there were about 
six hundred people called.
	Clive’s Band furnished exquisite music, 
which added greatly to the enjoyment of the 
guests; simple refreshments were served by 
young women and girls, who delight in 
these social functions. The members of the

[Column 2]
General Board were a receiving committee, 
and enjoyed showing every possible atten-
tion to those who called during the after-
noon. President Bathsheba W. Smith sat 
by the side of Aunt Emm. and received with 
her, shaking hands with all who came to 
offer their congratulations. 
	The several rooms at the headquarters 
were in gay attire, the profusion of beauti-
ful flowers (all of them gifts from dear 
friends) were tastefully arranged, and to-
gether with the potted plants and palms, 
loaned from the Temple conservatory, dis-
posed here and there, made of the apart-
ments a very delightful picture, almost like 
fairyland, though in midwinter. 
	It was a very great occasion, and gratify-
ing to those who participated, and never to 
be forgotten by the one in whose honor the 
reception was so generously given. 
	There was real enjoyment in seeing so 
many of the faithful workers in the Relief 
Society, and the many dear friends of former 
days and times, and withal many newer 
friends, who are also equally dear, because 
of congenial companionship and afflliation
along lines of progress and advancement, 
which is so aptly expressed in the club 
motto, “Unity in Diversity,” is indeed com-
pensation rich in value, and makes one for-
get, at least for the time being, that one is 
really under obligations for so much atten-
tion; and that helps, for really one feels, 
when receiving the congratulations of the 
multitude, that there are no words to express 
the gratitude one feels who is the recipient 
of such an ovation. 
	In the evening a small company met in 
the handsome reception room of the Relief 
Society in the Bishop’s Building, which was 
a bower of flowers of a beautiful variety of 
color, and the air was fragrant with sweet-
ness, and everything possible had been ar-
ranged with a view to bestowing pleasure 
and enjoyment for the invited guests, as 
well as the lady whom they met to honor. 
President Bathsheba W. Smith, and the 
members of the General Board, with their 
husbands or escorts, were present, and 
there was a most heavenly feeling pervad-
ing the apartments. 
	Counselor Ida Smoot Dusenberry, as mis-
tress of ceremonies, managed with tact and 
proved herself a perfect mistress in the art 
of pleasing all, and proved a host in
herself.
	The hymn, “Now let us rejoice in the day 
of salvation,” was sung, Sister Amy B. Ly-
man accompanist on the piano. President 
F. M. Lyman offered the opening prayer, 
which was very impressive and inspiration-
al, and touched all hearts with its eloquent 
simplicity and tenderness. 
	There were present President Anthon H. 
Lund and wife, President F. M. Lyman and 
wife, Elder H. J. Grant, Elder B. H. Rob-
erts and wife, Elder J. Golden Kimball and 
wife, and Col. Willard Young and wife. 
Other guests were relatives of Aunt Emm., 
of the Whitney and Wells families, and 
members of the Board and husbands or 
escorts, and children and grandchildren of 
Mrs. Wells. 
	President Lund, Elders H. J. Grant, B. 
H. Roberts, J. Golden Kimball, Rulon S. 
Wells, Joseph S. Wells, each made short 
speeches congratulatory and commenting 
upon the life and work of Aunt Emm. in a
most dignified and interesting way, and ex-
pressing the most sincere regard and appre-
ciation of her efforts for the good of those 
with whom she had labored so long and 
arduously.


Heber K. Aldous sang the beautiful
hymn “O my Father.”
	President Bathsheba W. Smith spoke of
the lifelong friendship, that had extended
over half a century, and the love and union
that had never failed through all the
years.
	Aunt Emm’s response was full of love for
all, and gratitude to her many friends who
had showered her with gifts and favors and
good-will, more than could ever be repaid,
but the love she had in her heart for them
was boundless. Thanked all who had mani-
fested such appreciation of her work, and
hoped she might be worthy of their love and
remain faithful to the end.
	Brother Aldous sang “Our mountain home
so dear,” composed by Aunt Emm., in which
all present joined and the benediction was
pronounced by Col. Willard Young.
	The daintiest refreshments were served by
the sweetest young girls, and the birthday cake
was brought in, the eighty-two wax candles
lighted, and the guests were invited to try
blowing out the candles, after a little time,
to see how many each one could extinguish.
Several of the gentlemen tried and succeeded
in putting out most of them. This created
a little merriment, and there was a little good-
natured sparring between the Whitneys and
the Wells’s as to which had the best claim
on Aunt Emm.
	Altogether the affair was very pleasant
and a perfect success in the way of enjoy-
ment. Although Aunt Emm. feels she can
never in any way repay her many friends
for the loving gifts so generously bestowed
and the flowers, that she so dearly loves, which
were sent from florists, as well as her near
and dear friends.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


