[Vol53 | August 1966 | Page 610 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief | Society Activities]
NOTES FROM THE FIELD AUGUST 1966 Torrance Stake (California), Rolling Hills Ward Relief Society Conducts Anniversary Essay Contest, March 29, 1966 Dorothy S. Keith, Education Counselor, is shown presenting a Relief Society bracelet to Joyce G. Potter, Secretary-Treasurer, who won the essay contest. Mary Jane Rahlf, President, Torrance Stake Relief Society, reports: "The contest was held so that the sisters could express and share their feeling about Relief Society in conjunction with the 124th birthday of the Society. The subject was 'What Relief Society Means to Me,' and many sisters participated. Excerpts from all the essays were read, after which the winning essay was read in full, and the award made to Mrs. Potter. Stake board members Mary Jane Rahlf, President; Donna Powers, Education Counselor; and Peggy Puffer, literature class leader, served as judges for the essays. Mary A. Huyck, President, Rolling Hills Ward Relief Society, conducted the meeting, at which Nadine Newland, Work Counselor, gave a very interesting talk on the Relief Society emblem, and the history of the sego lily. "A skit was presented, featuring Sister Just Moved In, Sister Just Too Tired, Sister Much Too Busy, Sister Full of Joy, and Sister Happy Life. The Rolling Hills Singing Mothers presented 'Why a Singing Mother Sings,' and 'I Whistle a Happy Tune.' A delicious luncheon was served at tables decorated in Relief Society colors. The occasion was one of our most wonderful events. The message and spirit of Relief Society reached many, many sisters this day." East St. George Stake (Utah), Fifth Ward Relief Society Presents Pioneer Theme Birthday Party, March 15, 1966 Left to right, former presidents: Fern Musser; Leila Atkin; Emma McArthur; Wanda Snow; Mae Nielson; Roma Esplin; Mildred Heaton; Annette Foremaster; Leila Sullivan; Virginia Knell, now serving as ward Relief Society president. Seated in front, in pioneer costumes: Dianne Jennings, chorister (left); and Arline Huber. Mildred Heaton, President, East St. George Stake Relief Society, reports: "Pictured are nine of the ten past presidents of the Fifth Ward Relief Society. All of them were honored and a special tribute was paid to each one. Corrine Bowler, the other former president, could not attend the social or be in the picture. Sister Atkin and Sister Esplin have served, also, as stake Relief Society presidents, and Sister Heaton is now the stake president. A pioneer theme was carried out for the social both in refreshments and in table decorations. Pioneer relics and furniture were displayed." South Bear River Stake (Utah) Three Generations of Relief Society Presidents Carry on the Tradition of Devotion to Relief Society Gene to right: Joan Francom Smith; Angie Cottle Francom; Zina Garner ottle. Ruth J. Hunsaker, President, South Bear River Stake Relief Society, reports: "A young Relief Society president is following in the footsteps of her mother and grandmother in that activity. All three have been members of the Elwood Ward in South Bear River Stake. The youngest president is Joan Francom Smith, President of Tacoma Sixth Ward Relief Society, Tacoma, Washington, who served 1964-65. Her mother Angie Cottle Francom is presently serving as president of Elwood Ward Relief Society. The grandmother Zina Garner Cottle was president of Hooper First Ward Relief Society in Lakeview Stake, Utah, from 1952-1955." 614 NOTES FROM THE FIELD AUGUST 1966 North Davis Stake (Utah), Sunset Ward Holds Annual Birthday Party March 17, 1966 Sixth and seventh from the left in the front row: Nora B. Stephens, President, Sunset Ward Relief Society; and Secretary-Treasurer Ann Marie Hirschi; Education Counselor Kathryn Shelton stands at the right in the back row; Work Counselor Patricia Perkins stands at the left in the back row. Lillian W. Nelson, President, North Davis Stake Relief Society, reports: "These four sisters (the officers) are mothers of nineteen children, ranging in age from five weeks to twelve years. The young mothers of this ward certainly have the Relief Society spirit, as they gather each Wednesday morning at ten A. M., to receive the spiritual guidance which comes from Relief Society meetings. In addition to the thirty-seven sisters and twenty-six children in the picture, there were twenty-seven pre-school children present in the nursery when this picture was taken. The large attendance of babies and children at a Relief Society meeting is typical of many of the wards in North Davis Stake, which have a majority membership of young families. "At the annual Relief Society birthday party, Sylvia Smith, fourth from the right in the front row, was presented a corsage and honored with a program of music and narration depicting her life and service in Relief Society. Sister Smith was a counselor in the presidency of the first Relief Society in Sunset Ward, then became the second president, and was again president at a later date, having a total of fourteen years service as Relief Society president. She has been a visiting teacher for thirty years, and is still active in this calling. She is a faithful member and an inspiration to all. "The sister in the front row in the wheel chair has five boys and a little girl. She has taught the social science lessons for several years, and has taught the theology lessons for the past two years. Her cheerfulness, faith, and testimony are an inspiration to all the members."