Published monthly by Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in secti6n 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

=== ADVERTISEMENTS (from Birthday Congratulations) ===
$4.95 Gospel Discourses of PRESIDENT JOSEPH FIELDING SMITH Deseret Book is proud to present this significant new volume as part of the 90th birthday anniversary celebration of President Smith. A choice compilation of sermons and writings, this book includes the warning voice that President Smith has raised to members of the Church during his 56 years as a General Authority. PLEASE TELL ME $2.95 By Elizabeth and Stanley Schoenfeld Contrary to the old statement, today's children seem to be heard as much as they are seen, and they ask a lot of questions. Here is a book by parents, written for parents and teachers alike, to help answer many of the Gospel questions which children constantly ask. Order from: Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110, Or 777 South Main, Orange, California 92669 Please send me [] TAKE HEED TO YOURSELVES [] PLEASE TELL ME I enclose a check/money order to cover cost of purchases. Total cost to include 3%% sales tax for Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake Store, Or 4% sales tax for California residents ordering from Orange Store. Or, I have an account — please charge me. =F == Os Deseret Book COMPANY 44 EAST SO. TEMPLE AND AT COTTONWOOD MALL SALT LAKE CITY 2472 WASHINGTON BLVD., OGDEN 777 SO. MAIN ST., ORANGE, CALIFORNIA = = RS. AUG. 66 Pn a a ww we ow ww ww ew en oe en en nn ee en nnn cere ert mn rene mane sewer ne etme meee tee e ssn war aceresenae Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Birthdays are fun and this is our 75th! Yes, U and I Sugar built its first factory in Lehi, Utah, in 1891 — 75 years ago. And to help celebrate our anniversary, we had Cynthia Scott, our U and I home economist, create a U and I Sugar 75th BIRTHDAY CAKE especially for you. Here's the recipe: Uand I 75th Birthday Cake 4 egg yolks Ya cup buttermilk 242 cups flour, sifted 1 teaspoon vanilla Y% teaspoon salt 4 egg whites, beaten until stiff % cup buttermilk %4 cup sliced almonds 2 cups granulated 1 pkg. German sweet chocolate = [ U AND I SUGAR % cup boiling water 1 cup butter 1 teaspoon soda Cream sugar and butter until light and fluffy, add egg yolks one at a time and beat well after the addition of each. Add flour and salt alternately with % cup buttermilk. Melt chocolate in boiling water, dissolve soda in % cup buttermilk and mix these two until smooth. Add PURE vanilla. Fold into creamed mixture. Fold in beaten egg Fi whites. Pour into three 9" layer cake pans or a set of NE GRANULATED tiered cake pans, greased and floured on bottom. Sprinkle the tops of two layers with sliced almonds. Bake ina moderate oven (350 degrees) 25 to 30 minutes. Cool. Use your favorite frosting and filling.