[Vol53 | August 1966 | Page 579 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

Jacqueline du Pre, cellist with the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, conducted by Sir Malcolm Sargent, is considered a performer of ''artistic individuality, as well as technical virtuosity.'' She was introduced to Carnegie Hall (New York) audiences as cellist in the Elgar concerto. Hedy West, Cartersville, Georgia, is today acclaimed in both the United States and Europe as one of the finest singers of country music. She is particularly effective in her singing of the folk music of the Georgia hill country. Her great-grandmother was a collector of the old familiar songs of the South, and Hedy finds a deep meaning in her heritage. She plays the piano, flute, and banjo, and is a student of musical composition. Sally Katzen, twenty-three, is the first woman ever to be elected editor-inchief of the University of Michigan Law ~ Review, a scholarly journal frequently cited in litigants' briefs and court decisions, which ranks among the top such publications in the United States. In this position, Miss Katzen directs a staff of eight assistants, all men, and supervises the work of twenty-four other staff members. She is a secondyear law student at the university. Mrs. Marianne Bell McConnaughey, widow of Robert K. McConnaughey, Commissioner of the United States Court of Claims, has been named to the five-member Board of Immigration Appeals. She is a lawyer and has worked for the Government since 1938. Dr. Helen Heffernan, formerly chief of the California Bureau of Elementary Education, is an international authority on teaching methods. She has visited schools and conducted education programs in twenty countries. An author of many monographs on education, she is in demand as a lecturer, and has recently addressed university faculties throughout the United States on the subject of ''Pressures on Children and Youth." Hope Sawyer Buyukmihci, daughter of Edmund J. Sawyer, bird artist and naturalist, is herself a well-known animal artist, photographer, and nature writer. She and her husband own and operate a wild-life refuge of 250 acres near Franklinville, New Jersey, U. S. A. Her children are blessed to have such a playground and such playmates. Her writing about animals shows not only excellent craftsmanship but also a rare and beautiful nature. Women in the Federal Service is the title of a United States Government bulletin which lists and describes the types of positions held by women, the salaries paid, and the opportunities for advancement. It discusses job locations, employment trends and_ standards, semiprofessional and professional occupations, as well as administrative positions in many fields, such as health and welfare, forestry and wild life services, social services, statistical work, library opportunities, and requirements for teaching positions in other countries.
