[Vol53 | August 1966 | Page 583 | Special Feature | Summer Morning on the Temple Grounds Olive | D. Twiddy]
[Summer Morning on the Temple Grounds Olive D. Twiddy]

582 n Nearer nt walking in the CautifuI; Pea » NOt anot huma being jn Sight, and ripping from € trees to break the tillness. After a Sho While Singing and flying from tree to tree, that Moment Go Opened m eyes that Might see and a rful things he had Created, I It such j t Seeing two youn th &rass, WO squirr, Is ca Slowly d from a tree, and Ser to the they Curried fo Cover. Two horses in an adjoin ly over to Where I Od. Th Y both Put their €ads over the "Good Orning," ven felt JOy at see a ter vole, jn uns alongside th temple. The beautif,! Flower eds, the es, the &rass, al Ooked different alked jn the wet fact that I ad Only a Pair of Open Sandals on my feet wet.: Me in my life I sa e W how beautify) God's €arth really js. Bridge Over the Stream. It was quiet and Peacefu), and I ather jn heaven.! Stood there 4nd thank d him Or the won. D - I Prayeg right there, that I Might always be as at oment. Ime is right that I Shall g0 through the On the Outside, T, temple, for I have - The feeling Of pe that Carly sum ace, happiness Comfort, Mer Morning, will, I Pray ars to come, » Stay in my 583 Issued March by General Board of Relief Society 1966 This list of sacred and secular songs will augment the list that is printed in the book Music Leadership in Relief Societies. These songs are appropriate either for Church services or for Singing Mothers concerts. Title Composer Publisher The First Star (m) (Violin may play melody with piano) Come Unto Me (m) This Day Is Mine (d) Prayerful Hour (m) Give to the World, Thy Peace (m) I May Never Pass This Way Again (m) Come, Come Ye Saints (m) Andalucia (d) Teach Me, O Lord (m) Scene and Prayer (Cavallerio) (d) Recessional (m) The Silent Sea (m) When Children Pray (m) Create in Me a Clean Heart (m) He Watching Over Israel (d) Eye Hath Not Seen (m) Rubinstein-Wilson (No. 6080) Tschaikowsky-Riegger Ware-Stickles (No. 3086) Chopin-Durocher (No. 45,629) Moliter-Grant Wizell-Melsher Arr.