LESSON IV. Home Economics. Fourth Week in May.
THE LATTER-DAY SAINT HOME.
THE HOME BUDGET.
If the finances of the home are to be managed in a business-like way, one needs some systematic method of planning her expenditures. The object of this lesson is to give such a system. The plan given here is intended to be suggestive, not an absolute model for every family. But with it, as an example and basis, any woman can make changes to suit her own special needs. This plan is one which has been worked out through many years of experience, and has been found practical. It requires about three or four minutes each day to keep it up, with from fifteen to thirty minutes once a month to balance up. The first necessity is a blank book, size about 7? inches by 9? inches. As it is almost impossible to find one ruled to suit the individual family, it is better to get one which simply has the lines ruled in it, and do your own ruling into columns.
The division of expenses into separate headings and allowing what shall be spent for each, we call the budget. (See Fig. 1.) The divisions given here are simple and practical. It is well to put this in your account book on two pages facing one another. Rule a double column for each heading. The first column under each is for the allowance, the second is for what is actually spent for this item, each crosswise line is for a month. With this system, one can watch each month to see that she is not overspending; or, if she does do so one month, can watch to make up for it in the following months. At the end of June, the middle of the year, space is left for balancing up and finding out if there is left a fair share for the last half of the year. At the bottom of the page we balance again. After the totals are made, place in the line called "Surplus" the amount saved under the allowance; in the one called "Deficit," the amount spent more than the allowance.
The sample budget given here is for a family of five?father, mother, and three small children. The total income of the family is $1,500 a year. Three hundred of this is taken out for investments, savings, insurance, etc. The account of how these savings are spent may be kept by the man of the family, but the plans and payments coming under this head affect the spending under the family budget and must be taken into consideration when planning it. On the first of January a statement should be made on two pages facing each other in the investment account book. The left page shows every obligation to be met, whether to be paid this year or in the future. When this is totaled, the whole sum shows the total liabilities or indebtedness. Below, on the same page, the months are written down in order. Under each month is put down what has to be paid that month?interest, taxes, water taxes, insurance, or whatever it may be. The right page shows investments separated into groups?land and buildings, livestock and machinery, stocks and bonds, etc. Insurance policies are listed showing loan value, cash value, and insurance or death value. When this page is totaled we have the total assets?just what one is worth if debts were all paid. Thus in the small space of two pages is shown the family's exact financial standing at the end of the year, and all obligations to be met the coming year. The statement of payments to be met each month must be taken into consideration in planning the family expenditure for that month and for those before it, when the saving for the payment is being made.
With this before her the woman sits down to make her budget. (See Fig. 1.) The various expenses are arranged under seven divisions Shelter, Operation, Food, Clothing, Equipment, Advancement, and Incidentals. Besides columns for each of these, a column for total amount allowed, and total actually spent, is arranged, and finally a column for savings planned for.
The first heading is for Shelter. By this is meant the house and the expense of its upkeep?taxes, repairs, improvements, etc. Or if the house is rented, the rent goes into this column. We suppose this family to be renting at $20 a month. So the expense for the whole year can be accurately set down, and there is no need to watch this column to see that it does not overspend. But when the house is owned, this column requires more careful attention.
The next heading is Operation. Under this head are kept light, heat, and service. By service is meant help of any kind paid for, such as maid, laundry. In the family we are studying, you observe that amounts spent for operation differ from month to month and that at the half year a surplus exists which is needed later, for in July the annual supply of coal is laid in. A small surplus of $1.40 is found at the end of the year.
The next heading, Food, is one which requires careful watching. First, one must be sure the family are getting sufficient nourishing food, and second, that the bills are not mounting over the sum allowed. There is a small deficit here at the end of the year, but so very small that it is only by careful planning that budget and actual expenditures can so closely agree.
Clothing is another item which requires careful planning and careful spending. It would be well to divide this column into separate columns for each member of the family. Clothing will not be purchased at so much each month, but will come largely by the seasons. A good plan is to write down under each name what each one is going to need and make some estimate of what you will pay for each article. For example Mary: Hat ($3.50), Cloak ($6), Dress ($3.75), 2 Aprons ($1), 3 Union Suits ($2.50), etc. Add it up; it here amounts to $16.75. Compare that with what is allowed for this child and if it is too much study it carefully to see where the necessary saving can be made. Since the sum spent for clothing must vary so from month to month, it is the half yearly or yearly amount which must be watched.
Equipment is the term used to cover the various things needed to equip the home?furniture, dishes, linen, etc. This family spent about as planned for 1915, on this item, and saved some here.
Advancement covers expenses of education, recreation, church, charity, trips, etc.
Incidentals covers dentist and drug bills, and various items which seem to belong nowhere else. An allowance here sufficient to cover small incidental sicknesses is all that is intended. Of course, when more serious and expensive illnesses occur, the expense must be met by saving somewhere else. Perhaps Equipment will suffer first. The new furniture, dishes, or whatever was planned will have to be dispensed with. And anything else the family can do without will have to be considered, and finally it may eat into the intended savings for the year. Thus extra, unexpected expense, in any division of the budget, will have to be met by spending less than planned somewhere else. But if one looks carefully ahead, the year when any large readjustment is necessary will be the exception.
On the top line of the "Allowed" column, under the heading "Totals" place the total sums allowed for the whole year's expenditure under the budget. In the sample budget, this is $1,200. At the bottom of the "Spent" column, place the sum of all amounts spent, as found at the end of the year. In this budget it was $1,200.75, showing that the budget was overspent just $.75.
In order to keep up this budget and to plan intelligently for the next year, one must keep account of all money received and spent. Chart No. 2 shows a method of doing this. A few days only are filled out, but the amounts at the foot of the page are given for the complete month. In the account book, immediately following the budget, two pages facing each other are used for a month's account. The first page has ruled at the left edge a space for the date, and written across the top the month and year on the right hand page are ruled the ten columns.
Under the heading "House" are found Shelter and Operation, which correspond to the same two columns in the budget. Food, for convenience, is divided into two columns?one for groceries, the other for meat, dairy and eggs. Incidentals, Advancement, Clothing, and Equipment provide divisions the same as those in the budget. Under the heading "Total," the total amount of money spent each day is kept. This is obtained by taking the sum of the amounts in the several columns for that day. As this budget is planned and carried out on a cash basis, this sum gives the amount of cash spent each day. At the end of the month each column is added up and the amount placed at the bottom on the line called "Totals." Thus, one sees what has been spent for shelter, food, and every other item during the month. The sums of these several totals should balance the sum in the daily cash totals. In the January account given, it amounts to $87.50.
The cash received is kept in the last column at the right of the page. Above the top line is always placed the cash on hand from the previous month. January first was $1.60. The $1,200 allowed for the year's expense gives $125 a month. This is received the first of the month and placed on the first line of the "Cash" column. In some families the cash would not all be received by the woman in the one sum at the first of the month, and it might be derived from different sources, as for example, some from her husband and some from the sale of eggs, milk, or other articles. Under these circumstances it would be well to leave about two inches of space between the column "Total," and the column "Cash Received," to be used for writing in the items which would go into the cash column from time to time. We would suggest that even when eggs or any other products are exchanged for groceries or other articles that the cash value of the produce be entered in the cash column and the article bought put in the account the same as if paid for in cash. At the end of the month the difference between "Cash Received" and "Cash Spent" gives the cash on hand. In the sample budget the difference between the $126.60 of cash available for this month, and $87.50 spent, gives $39.10, which is the amount of cash on hand to be placed at the top of the "Cash" column for February.
The totals at the foot of the column on this page give the sums to be placed in the respective columns in the budget. You will note that the sums found here are just what are found in the "Spent" columns of the budget for January. Thus, the monthly account is the necessary basis for the budget current expenditures.
This may look complicated at first glance, but a little study shows that it is very simple. However, this particular system, as was stated in the beginning, is given as an example of a budget and account system which has been developed through years of household accounting. Any individual housekeeper may wish to add more headings or get along with fewer, or change some of them. This is all immaterial. Find the system and the headings which fit your needs and use that. But efficient, business-like housekeeping requires a system of careful financial management. And such a system needs some method of planning and accounting as its foundations.
QUESTIONS.
1. What is needed for managing the home in a business-like way?
2. What kind of a plan is given here? If not a model, why is it given?
3. What equipment is necessary for beginning this plan?
4. How arrange the book for the budget? What is placed in the first column of the double columns under each heading? What is placed in the second column under each?
5. What is planned for at the middle of the year? At the end of the year?
6. For how many and on what income is the sample budget (Fig. 1) given?
7. Tell of the business statement which must form the foundation of the household budget. Why is this needed first?
8. How many divisions in the sample budget?
9. What is meant by Shelter? What belongs under it? Would you put anything more under this?
10. Repeat Question 9 for Operation.
11. What belongs under Food? What changes would farm women make? How would you estimate the farm and garden produce?
12. Should we economise greatly on food?
13. How plan for Clothing? What is necessary clothing? Is clothing a wise place to economise?
14. What is meant by Equipment? Can one easily plan ahead for these things? Is this a wise place to economise?
15. What is meant by Advancement? Should one spend liberally or economically here?
16. What is placed under Incidentals?
17. Discuss the "Total" Column.
18. Why must one keep account of all money spent?
19. Discuss arrangement of house account as given in Fig. 2. Why should farm women leave a space between "Total" column and "Cash" column? What will she write in this space? May a whole page be better for this?
20. Should the cash value of farm produce be placed in "Cash" column and the food placed in the Food column?
21. Where are the totals at the bottom page to be placed in the budget?
22. Is this a complicated system? Suggest changes you consider an improvement.
The following tables are given only as suggestions. Sisters should arrange and re-arrange these tables to suit their own conditions. Farmers' wives can use money equivalents in their estimates.
[ADVERTISEMENT SECTION:]