Social Service Text Books for 1928 With the month of December, 1927, the text book Challenge of Childhood, which has been used in the social service department for several years, will be completed. The new text book for this department for 1928-1929 will be The Child: His Nature and His Needs. This book will be handled by the office of the General Secretary. The price will be $1.25 postpaid. Inasmuch as it was necessary for the publishers to print a new edition in order to supply the Relief Society at this time, this edition, at the request of the General Board, will be known as the "L. D. S. Relief Society Edition," and this inscription will be placed on the cover of the book. It was decided at the general officers' meeting, at the October | conference to authorize the secretary's office to send out the books immediately upon their arrival at Relief Society headquarters, in order to save time, and to send one book for each stake board, and one book for each ward. The General Board is very anxious that this book shall be in the hands of every ward in time to prepare the January lesson. Our past experience has proved that much time has been lost by the wards in securing the text book, and in some instances the course has been half over before the wards thoroughly understood that the book was required. This decision by the general and stake officers will, we trust, greatly expedite matters and avoid delay in the class work. Because of the nature of the book, and its value to the mothers, and because of the reasonable price, it is anticipated that many of the individual members will desire-to secure this book personally. In order to accommodate them, individual orders may be sent to the Relief Society office by anyone who desires the book, and these orders will receive careful attention. It would be very helpful if such orders could be sent in at once. Although many stakes gave their orders during conference, we are asking you to re-order on blanks which will be sent for the purpose. Guide Lessons for February LESSON I / Theology and Testimony (First Week in February) THE DISPENSATION OF THE FULNESS OF TIMES The Opening Event This event has been the object of the scoffer's sneer and the cynic's pen, the subject of the painter's skill, and the theme of the poet's song. Prophets foretold it and philosophers are puzzling over its causes' and effects. One mortal witnessed it and his truth-marked testimony contains a description of it incomparably better than any or all others. / Children have heard the story, and no doubt thought they knew it well. Youths have read it and concluded that their cup of knowledge concerning it was full. Adults have told and retold it and some have studied it., The simple statement of the seer is the chief source of information, and so is indispensable to the completeness of any lesson on this epoch-making event. The prophet writes: "After I had retired to the place where I had previously designed to go, having looked around me, and finding myself alone, I kneeled down and began to offer up the desires of my heart to God. I had scarcely done so, when immediately I was. Seized upon by some power which entirely overcome me, and had such an astonishing influence over me as to bind my tongue so that I could not speak. Thick darkness gathered around me, and it seemed to me for a time as if I were doomed to sudden destruction. But, exerting all my powers to call upon God to deliver me out of the power of this enemy which had seized upon me, and at the very moment when I was ready to sink into despair and abandon myself to destruction— not to an imaginary ruin, but to the power of some actual being from the unseen world, who had such marvelous power as I had -never before felt in any being—just at this moment of great alarm, I saw a pillar of light exactly over my head, above the brightness of the sun, which descended gradually until it fell upon me.. "It no sooner appeared than I found myself delivered from the enemy which held me bound. When the light rested upon me I saw two personages, whose brightness and glory defy all description; standing above me in the air. One of them spake