Relief Society Short Story Contest THE Relief Society Short Story Contest for 1944 opens with. This announcement and closes September 15, 1944. Three prizes will be awarded as follows: First prize...........---------$35 Second prize..............-.$25 Third prize -................-$15 The three prize-winning stories will be published consecutively in the first three issues of The for 1945. Prizewinning stories become the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be published by others except upon written permission from the General Board. The General Board reserves the right to publish any of the other stories entered in the contest, paying for them at the time of publication at the regular Magazine rates. Rules for the Contest: 1. This. Contest is open to Latter-day Saint women—exclusive of members of the Relief Society General Board and employees of the General Board—who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. 2. Only one story may be submitted by each contestant. 3. The story must not exceed 3,000 words in length and must be typewritten. (A duplicate copy of the story should be retained by contestant to insure against loss. ) 4. The contestant's name is not to appear anywhere on the manuscript, but a stamped envelope on which is written the contestant's name and address is to be enclosed with the story. Nom de plumes are not to be used. 5. A statement is to accompany each story submitted certifying: a. That the author has had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication. (This statement must give name and date of publication in which the contestant's work has appeared, or, if not yet published, evidence of acceptance for publication.) b. That the story submitted is the contestant's original work. C. That it has never been published, that it is not in the hands of an editor or other persons with a view to publication, and that it will not be published nor submitted elsewhere for publication until the contest is decided. 6. A writer who has received the first prize for two successive years must wait for two years before she is again eligible to enter the contest. 7. The judges shall consist of one member of the General Board, one person from the English department of an educational institution, and one person who is a recognized writer. In case of complete disagreement among judges, all stories selected for place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. 8. Stories must be submitted not later than September 15, 1944. G. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest Committee, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Note: For suggestions on short story writing see the following: "Short-story Writing," by Pearl Spencer, , June- , Pp. 389. "Short-story Writing," by Pearl Spencer, , , P. 540.