General Secretary-Treasurer
Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for , page 104.
In this department of the Magazine for , reports which had been especially requested from the two missions and eight stakes represented on the honor roll for 1942 were published, showing the methods which had been followed by these Relief Societies in achieving a position on the honor roll. Inasmuch as six times as many stakes and missions achieved a position on the honor roll for 1943, similar reports were not requested from the fifty-seven stakes and three missions achieving this recognition. Accordingly, the reports presented here were all sent in voluntarily and are representative of the spirit and enthusiasm with which Relief Societies throughout the Church entered into the 1943 Magazine campaign, whether or not a place on the honor roll was achieved.
Cottonwood Stake
MERLE S. MUIR, stake counselor in charge of the Magazine, wrote as follows: "Although Cottonwood Stake has fallen short of our desired goal, we still feel we have achieved a great deal. Last year our stake took 155th place with twenty-six per cent. From enclosed report you will see we have seventy-one per cent this year [72d place] for which our ward representatives are to be congratulated. Their efforts and willingness have been an inspiration to me.
"At our stake and ward officers' meeting September 26, a campaign month was planned, a chart and poster of achievement was presented, and awards were offered by the stake. A slogan 'Every member a reader and subscriber' was accepted. The ward representatives presented their methods, and pep talks and suggestions were given.
"At the end of the month's campaign the stake executive officers entertained ward representatives at a luncheon. Miniature s were place cards. Each ward reported fine progress, pledged itself to greater efforts. The awards won were presented.
"All the wards have accomplished a great deal, but special mention should be given Taylorsville and Murray Third Wards which achieved 100 per cent or more, and the Valley Center Ward with eighty-four per cent. Murray Third Ward had only twelve subscriptions last year compared with 144 this year. Credit is due the presidents who have united their efforts and wholehearted support with those of the representatives. They are all enthusiastic Magazine boosters, and I, as stake director, know the Magazine is a spiritual and temporal help to all who read it. May this year's achievements be a challenge to bigger ones next year."
Even though this stake fell slightly short of the honor roll, it procured the greatest numerical increase (369) in subscriptions over 1942 of any stake or mission, and the second greatest percentage increase (175 per cent), as shown on page 321.
Western States Mission
THE following comment concerning the accomplishment of the Grand Junction Relief Society in the Magazine campaign is typical of the enthusiastic effort in the interest of the Magazine, put forth by the Relief Societies of this mission, under the direction of Luceal R. Curtis, mission Relief Society president. This mission was one of the two missions on the 1942 honor roll, and is one of the three missions on the 1943 roll. Altogether, nineteen of the thirty-seven Relief Societies in this mission are listed on the 1943 honor roll, eleven of them with rates of 100 per cent or more. Sister Curtis wrote: "I should especially like to call your attention to the Grand Junction Magazine report. Sister Arva M. Allgood, who is the Magazine representative and also a home missionary, works during the day. A few days before I went to the annual conference in Grand Junction, Sister Allgood finished her washing that she had started the night before and then got out and sold Magazines until it was time to go to work. She was that anxious to report 100 per cent on the Relief Society members taking the Magazine, and as you see from the subscription report, through her ambition and desire to make a good report, she achieved a rate of 120 per cent. Many others have worked hard. It is a real accomplishment, I feel, when branches get more Magazine subscriptions than they have members."
Kolob Stake
THE presidency of Kolob Stake Relief Society submitted the following report of this stake's Magazine campaign: "The Kolob Stake Relief Society, with Hannah M. Clyde as president, Eugenia Bird as Magazine representative and Lela C. Sumsion as assistant, were very successful in putting over the Magazine drive. They were ably assisted by the ward officers and Magazine representatives, and members of the ward Relief Societies who were called to help in this work.
"Much enthusiasm was created by the display of a large ship (see accompanying picture) on which a small star was placed for each subscription. As each ward met its quota a large star was presented at Relief Society meeting, and it was placed on the ship by the ward representative.
"The inclosed poem about the ship was composed by one of our worthy members, Sister Ella Reynolds, as a tribute to The . It was read in each ward at the time the large star was presented.
"Many of the sisters have expressed their appreciation for the messages brought to them each month by the Magazine. The lessons are a real inspiration and comfort to all of us in these trying ties.? This stake achieved a rating of 102 percent of its members as Magazine subscribers, with all seven wards winning a place on the honor role. This stake was recently reorganized and Zelma Beardall is the new stake Relief Society president. OH, MAGIC SHIP! Oh, Magic Ship! Your sails are set with stars of hope and cheer; Each star means one subscription To the Magazine a year. The lessons that you find inside On pages clean and bright Will store your mind with knowledge And be your soul's delight. Oh, Magic Ship! Emblem of endurance, courage, strength, Your cargo is a precious crew Of loyal, honored saints Who meet each week in search of truth Given by teachers true? Who strive to live the Golden Rule, And serve their Master, too. Oh, Magic Ship! Your compass that will point the proper way Is symbolic of the lessons that we study day by day, Your rudder and the rudder-chain Are much the same to me? As the teaching of the Savior When he said, Come follow me? I will give you Peace" And control your destiny. Come join us, Kolob sisters; Your tiny golden stars Shall crown the sails on our Magic Ship. They are going to take us far? Into the land of knowledge Where with speech, and prayer, and song, ? SHIP REPRESENTING THE on which a star was placed for each subscription. Each ward was entitled to add the large star to its ship when the ward had reached its Magazine quota. We will mingle with that glorious crowd, Who are a hundred thousand strong. ?Ella Wheeler Reynolds Cache Stake MARY M. WEST, president of Cache Stake Relief Society, which appears on the honor roll with a rating of eighty-three per cent, reports: "We are very happy over 'the success of our Magazine drive this year. We have obtained more subscriptions than ever before in our stake. Our fine Magazine representatives, under the very able leadership of stake Magazine representative