     Vol. 6.                            SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 15, 1877.				No. 10.


For the EXPONENT.
ON THE DEATH OF PRESIDENT
BRIGHAM YOUNG.
How can we express our sorrow for the loss that we sus-
tain?
Brigham Young our seer and prophet--long has been his
peaceful reign--
He has loved the people ever--they have loved him in re-
turn:
Though he's gone to realms of glory, still our loss we long
will mourn.
He was mighty as a leader, he for right was ever strong--
Taught us naught but truth eternal, and he never led us
wrong;
Now the Saints of Latter-days, who have loved his coun-
sels given. 
Mourn his loss, and yet rejoice that he meets his friends
in heaven.
Joseph Smith has gladly met him, Hyrum, too, shares in
the joy;
Heber, George A., Jedediah welcome him where none
annoy:
Willard Richards, David Patten, and the Saints who've
passed away,
Welcome him, with love and gladness, where it is eternal
day.
He is free from all annoyance, free from those that sought
his death;
Now no evil can befall him--only we are sore bereft:
He is happy with companions who had only gone before;
None can harm him, or molest him--he is free forever-
more.
EMILY B. SPENCER.
St. George, Aug., 1877.


[FOR the EXPONENT.
A WOMAN'S LOVE.

BY MAY MAPLE.

No star in yonder sky that shines,
 Can light like woman's eye impart;
The earth holds not in all its mines,
 The gem so rich as woman's heart.

Her voice is like rich music sweet,
Poured out from e'en a harp alone;
Like that, when storms most loudly beat,
It yields a clearer, richer tone.

And woman's loves a holy light,
 That brighter, brighter beams for aye,
Years cannot dim its radiance bright,
 Nor ever falsehood quench its ray.

But like the star of Bethlehem
 Of old, to Israel's shepherds giv'n,
It marshals with its steady name,
 The erring soul of man to heav'n.


REMINESCENSES.

 Incidents of my girlhood days, also of
later years rush o’er my memory to-day.
The innocent school-girl romp, the merry
Christmas, the happy New Year, the gay
party, and above all the joyous sleighride,
snugly wrapped in warm robes and furs,
cosily seated by the side of a respected
schoolmate, or perchance, one dearer, with
other seats similarly occupied. The clatter
of the horses hoofs sounding on the frozen
night air. The earth draped in robes of
dazzling whiteness, glittering and spark-
ling in the silvery moonbeans. While the
bright stars looked approvingly down as we
dashed over the frozen snow, halting ever
and anon, at some wayside inn to partake
of refreshments, or warm our tingling ears.
Those were happy, fleeting days spent with
the dear friends of my youth. But where
now are the friends, “echo answers where?”

	Where are the comrades of my youth
		Whose voices were so gay,
	Whose hearts were pure and motives good,
		In childhood's happy day?


All who survive, tread the thorny path
of life in different directions, but all I think
are aiming to attain the high prize which
is in Christ Jesus. Ere the springtime of
my life had passed, there came a joyous,
solemn day, that on which I entered upon
the duties of wifehood. And ere long,
came sweet flowers, fresh from heaven to
cheer our hearts and firesides. As their
numbers increased, it was my joy to rear
them in the path of virtue and truth. And
when they in time have started on the
road that have been traveled for untold
ages, how thankful I have felt that I have
been counted worthy to be instrumental in
bringing forth the souls of men to help
build up the kingdom of God upon the
earth.
	Though the springtime and summer of
my life have passed, and the hand of time
is sprinkling my hair plentifully with sil-
ver, and chilly autumn is fast approaching;
though the vivacity and buoyancy of my
youth have gone, yet the sunshine has not
gone out of my heart. A calmer, holier
joy has settled down upon my life. Al-
though sorrows have and yet may come, I
trust in the future as in the past, to Divine
assistance, to lead us safely through.
And when this earthly pilgrimage is ended,
The cares, and sorrows, hopes and fears of life are oe'r.
May childhood's joys and earthly ties be blended,
With glory, joy, and life eternal, on the other shore.
								ANONYMOUS.


CORRESPONDENCE.

EXTRACTS FROM A PRIVATE LETTER.

	SUNSET, ARIZONA Sept. 13th, 1877.
	I received your very kind letter, and
thank you for the good sentiments expressed
therein.  It does me good to known that
you feel interested in our mission; we some-
times are a little lonesome, there being so
few of us, but the brethren and sisters of
our camp are united, and when we consider
that we are here to try to do the will of
God and carry out the counsel of President
Young (in our weakness), it inspires us
with hope that our Heavenly Father will
give us strength to overcome out imperfec-
tions and learn to discharge our duties
faithfully in the United Order.
	I am happy to hear you are engaged in
the Ladies' Store; I think it will encourage
others to try to follow your example, and 
heartily wish you success in the enterprise.
I am aware it must be quite a tax upon
your physical strength.
	I have been teaching school a short time
for the same kind of remuneration.
	The labors of the brethren here have
been much blessed this season; they have
raised some good wheat- enough for bread
and seed; the corn and sugar cane look
splendid.  We have also some good vege-
tables of almost all kinds, which we can
appreciate after the failure of last year.
We have one corral for our cows, one field,
one stock-yard, and on treasury.
	We are so far from Utah that we get but
little news.
	May God bless, comfort and strengthen
you in all your labors, is the prayer of
	Your sister in the Gospel of peace,
							A. W.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	ANNIE BESANT, the English radical, is
young and handsome, and a natural orator.
Her lectures to working people are densely
crowded, and it is said we have no woman
in America equal to her in force, genius and
culture combined.—Philadelphia Sunday
Press.

	MISS EMILY Faithful, we are told, has
just begun the publication of a new weekly
journal, called the West London "Express."
She is its editor, and has many well-known
assistants in the literary, scientific and dra-
matic departments. It is sold for the small
price of a penny. It is said to be an inde-
pendent family newspaper, not represent-
ing, especially, the interests of the Woman
Suffrage party.—Ex.

	MRS. ISABELLA B. Hooker, in her call for
the eighth annual meeting of the Connecti-
cut Woman Suffrage Association, specifies
among subjects for discussion the Labor
question, to occupy the morning session.
We heartily approve of this arrangement.
The labor question has arrived at such gi-
gantic proportions that it presses itself upon
the attention of all, and next to that of
woman suffrage is the greatest question of
the day, and the two are destined yet to
color the political atmosphere until an equi-
librium of forces is brought about, which
shall equably adjust the demands of both.
—Ballot Box.

	CONVENTIONS ARE being held by women
in the cause of Universal Suffrage in many
of the states and territories, to arouse an
interest in the cause, and urge upon wo-
men everywhere the necessity of the ballot.
The plan now is to present as many names
to Congress during the next session as pos-
sible, that they may fully realize the nec-
essity of making an amendment to the
Constitution, that will prohibit the several
states from disfranchising women.

Constitution of the National Woman Suffrage
				Association.

	ARTICLE 1.—This organization shall be
called the National Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation.
	ARTICLE 2.—The object of this Associa-
tion shall be to secure NATIONAL protection
for women citizens in the exercise of their
right to vote.
	ARTICLE 3.—All citizens of the United
States subscribing to this Constitution, and
contributing not less than one dollar annu-
ally, shall be considered members of the
Association, with the right to participate in
its deliberations.
	ARTICLE 4.—The officers of this Asso-
ciation shall be a President, a Vice Presi-
dent from each of the States and Territories,
Corresponding and Recording Secretaries, a
Treasurer, an Executive Committee of not
less than five, and an Advisory Committee
consisting of one person from each State
and Territory.
	ARTICLE 5.—All Woman Suffrage Socie-
ties throughout the country shall be wel-
comed as auxiliaries; and their accredited
officers or duly appointed representatives
shall be recognized as members of the Na-
tional Association.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Sept. 29, was one of great inter-
est to all who have the welfare of Zion at
heart. The meeting was presided over by
Counselor Zina D. Young.  The minutes
from the various wards were interesting,
and plainly showed that the young ladies
are making good use of their opportunities
for improvement.  Mrs. Zina D. Young and
Miss E. R. Snow made some very appro-
priate remarks on home industries and the
practical work of the societies.  President
John Taylor addressed the sisters in a most
edifying and encouraging manner, gave
some items of his acquaintance with the
Relief Society in Nauvoo, stated that he
was present at its organization by Joseph
Smith the prophet.  Said he had watched
with interest the labors of the sisters in the
good cause, and desired their prosperity in
the benevolent work they were doing.
Prayed the Lord to bless and aid them in
all their enterprises.  Said many things
calculated to comfort and build them np.
	Elder Wilford Woodruff gave the sisters
similar counsel, and exhorted them to store
up wheat and raise silk, and persevere in
the noble work they were doing, for he felt
they were co-workers with the brethren in
helping to establish the kingdom of God.
He gave them great encouragement, and
blessed them and asked God to bless them,
&c.
	Counselor D. H. Wells gave much good
advice and many wise suggestions in regard
to the efforts that were being made by the
sisters to benefit each other and the
young people, that they might fill up their
days in usefulness, with honor to them-
selves and the church and kingdom of God.
	Elder Angus M. Cannon made a few clos-
ing remarks very applicable to the time
and place, and very politely asked the sis-
ters to use their influence practically by
encouraging their hnsbands, fathers and
brothers to come forward and assist in put-
ting up the New Tabernacle. Bishop
Thomas Taylor dismissed with prayer. The
meeting was one which left a good impres-
sion, and carried to the hearts of the sisters
a heavenly influence.  The Spirit of God
was there, bearing witness to all, both
speakers and hearers.

 Speceial Meeting of the Young Ladies’
Mutual Improvement Association of the
First Ward, held in the schoolhouse Sept.
26th, 1877. Usual opening exercises.
Minutes read and accepted.
	By invitation of President Mrs. Sarah
Graham, Mrs. Zina D. Young then made
Some remarks, of which the following is
only a synopis: “We have heard some ex-
cellent sermons from the young ladies in
the minutes, which causes our hearts to re-
joice, particularly as they come from our
youth. We have here the elements of truth
and righteousness, to follow in the track of
our leaders and carry on the work that they
have begun.  And they will carry it on
with greater rapidity than we have done,
for they have not the traditions to contend
with that we had.  When I look on the
faces of my brethren and sisters since the
death of President Young, I think, How
do we feel? I believe we feel ten times
stronger than we did before he died. I
have heard him say “Joseph Smith’s testi-
mony had far greater effect after his death
than it ever had before, and so will mine;”
and I thought to myself, Oh, will I live to
see him die?  Sisters, it is for us to be
wide awake to our duties.  The kingdom
will roll on, and we have nothing to fear
but our own imperfections.  I do not wish
to take up more time, for there are many
here whom we would like to hear from, but
I pray God to bless you, and especially the
youth. May God bless yon and eudow you
with energy and determination to act for
yourselves in regard to dressing plainly and
comfortably. May you have many of these
re-unions, and be comforted and strength-
ened is my prayer in the name of Jesus."
	Synopsis of Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith’s
remarks: "I feel happy to meet with the
sisters in this ward, and I feel very much
pleased to think that the young ladies are
stepping forward, learning the principles of
the gospel, reading and studying that they
may become wise and great.  I know that
this is the kingdom of God.  We should
not be ashamed of our religion, but live it
so that we will be prepared when we are
called to go hence.  I exhort you to attend
your meetings and Sabbath schools, and
never neglect your prayers.”
	Mrs. E. B. Wells: “I love my religion
better than anything else on the earth, and
I desire to do my duty and walk by the
Spirit of God at all times.  I have had some
idea of the public work of women since
my childhood, and I sometimes feel that I
cannot do half enough.  Some think we
have not done much in our associations; but
in looking back I think we have accom-
plished considerable.  The sectarian world
and their ministers teach people how to die;
but we want to learn how to live, that we
may be prepared to dwell with angels and
holy beings; and if we do not live lives of
purity, we will not receive the reward that
we otherwise would.  This Latter-day work
in time will devolve upon the young, and
if they continue in these associations, they
will be more competent to assist than
we were.” Mrs. Wells then bore a strong tes-
timony upon plural marriage. “I believe as
far as my knowledge of these associations
extends, that the young ladies are doing
very well; that they are learning the prin-
ciples of the gospel, learning to preserve
their health, how to become good mothers,
and how to take care of their children; and
the object of these associations is to develop
the young ladies, spiritually, temporally,
physically and morally." Mrs. Wells also
made other excellent remarks on the Wo-
MAN'S EXPONENT, and Church Libraries,
and expressed a very great interest in the
young.
	Miss E. R. Snow; “I always feel happy to
meet with my sisters; today I feel a pecu-
liar sweetness and heavenly influence. What
we have heard is calculated to inspire us to
action. The world has a great deal of teach-
ing and preaching done, but we want to
act, for by our acts we will be judged.  It
has been suggested here that we have a
great deal to do, and those who are alive to
their religion know that there is much to
do. The sisters have weighty duties placed
upon them, and duties that cannot be ac-
complished singly, but require a unity of
heart and feeling.  We must be united as
Jesus and his disciples were, and must get
the Holy Ghost, the Comforter that Jesus
spoke of, to help us.  Jesus said, “When I
go away I will send the Comforter, to teach
you what to do and how to act."  The mis-
sion that has been placed upon the sisters
requires a constant effort, and it requires
us to meet often together. “And they
that feared the Lord met often together
and they spoke one to another of the good
ness of God; and they shall be mine when
I number up my jewels, saith the Lord."
When President Young first called upon
us to organize the young girls, many good
girls did not know that the gospel was true;
now they meet together and get the Spirit
of God, and we have heard some of the
effects, today, in the minutes.  Our duties
are numerous.  For instance, there is the
silk business; President Young has spent
thousands of dollars in trying to lead out
the people in that industry, and now he has
placed the mission on the sisters.  The first
year that he set foot on this soil he saw
that there was silk in the elements, and I
want to inspire the young sisters with the
importance of this mission.  We are also
storing up grain for a day of famine. A
famine is certainly coming and we are called
upon to prepare for it.  Pres. Young said
as soon as he gave the mission to the sis-
ters, that they took hold of it; this is a
compliment to us, and don’t you think he
will bear that testimony in the courts above?
Yes, he will.  There is another item that I
wish to mention.  At a meeting held in
the Council House the expressed wishes of
Pres. Young were to change the name of
these associations from Retrenchment As-
sociations to Mutual Improvement Associa-
tions, and I would be pleased if you would
take a vote here on that, to show your will-
ingness to carry out the instructions of Pres.
Young.”
	It was then unanimously carried that the
name of our Association be changed from
Young ladies’ Retrenchment Association to
Young Ladies’ Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation.
			(To be continued.)


EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Believing your readers,have an interest
in the Belief Society of Peoa, Summit Co.,
and having recently returned from that lo-
cality, I submit the following:
	The brethren have enclosed about three
hundred acres, which they planted in
White Touse wheat, that looked beauti-
ful when matured, standing from four to
five feet high; of this the Belief Society
has 9ix acres. The brethren donated the
raising and harvesting of this wheat to
the Society. While, the brethren were at
work the Society furnished supplies for
subsistence, and all had an enjoyable time.
The general health of the people is good.
Your paper is a welcome visitor. Wishing
it perfect success.
		I remain yours;
					M. A. Rockwood.
	S. L. City Sep. 25, 1877.

		ST. CHARLES Sept. 10th 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	On the 29th Aug. we received a visit
from our much beloved sisters Mary I.
Horne and Phebe Woodruff, from whom
we received much valuable instruction
which if carried out in our lives will be of
great benefit to us. On the following
morning we received the sad news of our
beloved President's death which cast a
gloom over the entire settlement, yet we
realize that our loss is his gain, and feel to
say "Thy will be done Father and not ours."
Help us Father to so live that we will be
worthy of his society in the world to come
	With best wishes for yourself and your
valuable paper, I remain, 
	Your sister in the Gospel,
				ORISSA A. ALLRED.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		75


MISMATED.

				BY LUNA S. PECK.

A hawk once courted a little white dove,
With the softest of wings and a voice full of love,
And the hawk—O yes, as other hawks go—
Was a well-enough hawk, for aught that I know.
			But she was a dove,
			And her bright young life
			Had been nurtured in love,
			Away from all strife.

Well, she married the hawk; the groom was delighted,
A feast was prepared, and the friends all invited.
(Does any one think that my story's not true?
He is certainly wrong; the facts are not new.)
			Then he flew to his nest,
			With the dove at his side,
			And soon all the rest.
			Took a squint at the bride:

A hawk for his father, a hawk for his mother,
A hawk for his sister, and one for his brother.
And uncles and aunts there were by the dozens,
And oh, such a number of hawks for his cousins.
			They were greedy and rough,
			A turbulent crew,
			Always ready enough
			To be quarrelsome, too.

To the dove all was strange, but n[-]ver a word
In resentment she gave to the wrangling she heard;
If a thought of her peaceful, far-away nest,
Ever haunted her dreams, or throbbed in her breast,
			No bird ever knew;
			Each hour of her life
			Kind, gentle and true
			Was the hawk's dove-wife.

But the delicate nature too sorely was tried;
With no visible sickness the dove drooped and died;
Then loud was their grief, and the wish all expressed
To call the learned birds and hold an inquest.
			So all the birds came,
			But each shook his head;
			No disease could he name
			Why the dove should lie dead:

'Till wise old owl, with a knowing look,
Stated this: "The case is as clear as a book;
No disease do I find, or accident's shock;
the cause of her death was—too much hawk!
Hawk for her father, and hawk for her mother,
Hawk for her sister and hawk for her brother,
Was more than the delicate bird could bear:
She hath winged her way to a realm more fair!
			She was nurtured a dove;
			Too hard the hawk's life;
			Void of kindness and love—
			Full of harshness and strife,"

And when he had told them, the other birds knew
That this was the cause, and the verdict was true!
—The "Watchman."


[Column 1]
	A YOUNG MISSIONARY TO HIS
				MOTHER.

	MENTOR PLAINS, LAKE Co., OHIO,
						Sept. 28, 1887.
	*	*	*	Once more I was rejoiced
to hear from home—a place from which I
have been absent nearly eleven months.
How fast the time has sped away. Here
we are again on the threshold of hoary
winter when it seems as if we had just
emerged from it. And such, too, is life;
we are frosted with age ere childhood's
flowers have barely withered, and ere we
lose sight of the cradle we are approaching
the grave. Short indeed is life. Should
we not indeed put it to its best use? How
illy can we afford to squander any of the
golden moments now in our possession and
now in oblivion—gone, gone forever.
	And is not the service of our Father in
heaven the best possible use to which our
time, talents, and possessions can be applied?
Yea, verily. He alone can reward and pun-
ish in eternity—He alone can save or de-
stroy our souls forever—He alone it was who
created us body and spirit, and placed us
here to work out our salvation with fear
and trembling, and he alone it is to whom
all is due, both now and forever—Glory be
to God in the hightest. Amen!

[Column 2]
	I do not know what made me write that
strain, but at times my feelings overflow in
that manner and I long to pour out my
gratitude to the Lord—if I pray it is so, or
if I chance to have my pen I transmit my
thoughts to paper. Who will blame me?
No one whose opinion I care for. The true
Saint can sympathize with such sentiments,
for they swell in the breast of every true
and honest heart. My mother, you are one
of these, and I care more for your good will
than for an army of those scoffers, who
make light of sacred things, so high above
them as to be beyond the reach of their
comprehension.
	How pitiable is their state! Not only are
they without the blessings which flow from
the Holy Spirit in this life, but hereafter
they can lay no claim to the rewards which
await the righteous. Who would be a skep-
tic? Not I; thank God, I know that my
Redeemer liveth. I know I am one of his
flock, poor, weak and erring as I am. I
know he can forgive and does; I know he
can save and will. Never let it come from
my lips that I am independent of his help
and unsupported by his bounty. Rather
let me die now and pass into eternity half
purified, than live to damn my soul with
the curse of infidelity—to turn from the
truth, like swine again to the mire, and de-
ny the holy commandment delivered to me.
No, let me live on in my holy faith, still
hoping, still praying for an increase of the
Spirit, to guide me in the paths of truth
to show me my duty and give me strength
to perform it, that I, after a faithful, hum-
ble, useful life in the service of God on
earth, may mount the steps which lead to
the third estate and thence to a kingdom of
glory in the celestial mansions above. May
the Lord grant it to all of those who call
themselves and who live Latter-day Saints,
in Jesus name. Amen.
	*	*	*	*	*	*
	Remember me to all the children; their
absent brother sends love to all of them—
enough for both houses, whose inmates are
all dear to me. I own no half brothers and
sisters, we are all one family.
	I have been here in Mentor three weeks,
and a most pleasant visit has been my re-
ward during the whole time. Yesterday
we all attended the Fair in Painesville. I
have done no public preaching recently, but
my presence and visits have removed much
prejudice from the minds of these folks
and the neighbors. I am treated well and
welcomed by everybody now, but if I had 
come unacquainted and preached publicly to
the people they would have given me the
cold shoulder. There is more than one
way to preach the gospel, and I always re-
member the words of counsel given by 
Brother Woodruff to the departing mission-
aries, when we were set apart—"Seek to
gain the confidence of the people in divers
ways; live up to your religion in the true
spirit thereof; go into the fields and work
with the farmers and gain good will. It
does not consist merely in going over a vast
area of country; stay in one place and do
as much good as you can in that place
before moving, etc."
	I am now helping cousin cut grain, etc.,
and am much esteemed by the whole fam-
ily, who entreat me not to leave, or if so to
return soon, and in many ways exhibit
genuine affection for me, notwithstanding
my earnest and open defense of Mormon-
ism, advocacy of Polygamy, etc., which
they hold in abhorrence. I sha'n't knuckle
under to my best friends on these points.
I'm a full-blooded "Mormon," and don't
care who knows it.
		Your affectionate son.


﻿CORRESPONDENCE.

	BLOOMINGTON, Sept. 26th, 1877.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I have just returned from a most enjoya-
ble affair, and thinking a few items might
interest you, I herewith send the same.
You must know the “cause,” and then you
will understand the “effect.” The Presi-
dent of the Relief Society noticed an edi-
torial in your paper recently recommend-
ing having the children glean. The time
was short, and it being the first time such 
a thing was tried in this place, very little
else but a commencement, or as it were a
foundation laid to improve and build on in
years to come, was expected to be accom-
plished. The President of the Relief So-
ciety, Mrs. Greenhalch, (a most estimable
lady,) and the President of the Young La-
dies Mutual Improvement Association (who
is also an excellent lady,) called a meeting.
It would be tiresome to go into other de-
tails, but the result was the children suc-
ceeded in saving about two and a half bush-
els of grain, after it was threshed. The
ladies gave the juvenile gleaners a party,
the President of the Association opened
her house for the children, and with the
officers of the Relief Society they all gath-
ered up their baskets of picnic and assem-
bled this afternoon at Mrs. Dunn’s. Yours
Truly enjoyed the honor of being an invi-
ted guest. I found the little girls down in
the willows close to the house playing with
great glee. They escorted me up to the
house, where I found a cosy bevy of good
sisters. My ears were soon saluted with
the pleasant sound ot children’s voices in
the next room, singing Sunday School
songs. They sang very sweetly. Miss
Mary Greenhalch led the singers in a very
pretty way keeping excellent time. The
songs were “Gathering home,” “We meet
again," "The Work," “Gay and happy;”
“All hands study;” the two former and the 
last one pleased me most. Some pleasant
games were played, after which supper was
announced. Abundance of everything good
was provided, and to gaze on that table
groaning with luxuries, it was hard to be-
lieve the general cry of “hard times."
Rice puddings in large pans, all kinds of
cakes and pies, and best of all a monstrous.
chicken pie. Oh Mrs. Editor if you could
only have tasted that pie, your respect,
like mine, would have been increased for
the contributor thereof. Blessed be the
woman who invented chicken-pies. The
children separated with light hearts and
happy faces. Great credit is due to Mrs. 
Dunn whose head heart and hands were
exercised to the utmost to make every-
thing connected with the affair a success.
Also to Mrs. Greenhalch and Mrs. Bee. It
was altogether a very pleasant and happy
affair.
		Yours,
				S. Y. D.


A LEAKING LAKE.—The theory that 
there are subterranean connections between
the numerous lakes in Central New York
has been often advanced. For years there 
has been more or less loss of water in the 
limestone sinks along the bed of the Ske-
neateles outlet, below Long Bridge, and the
Skeneateles Iron Works. Hart Lot Paper
Mill bus been unable to run steadily on ac-
count of failure of water; a recent scientific
examination, shows that at least one-third
of the volume of water is swallowed up in
the vicinity of the rolling-mill dam, where
there is a largo whirlepool.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS,  	  	- Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00. one copy six months,
1.00.  Ten copies for the price of nine.  Advertising
rates.  Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $3.00 per month, $3.00.  A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate.  Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, OCT. 15, 1877


[Column 1]
		AUTUMNAL SENTIMENTS.

		"Now garnering gray October's sober gains,
		Now Christmas hollies pile our loaded wains."

	All poets, or poetical prose (not prosy,) writ-
ers who are of the descriptive class, who delight
to dwell upon scenery, seasons, birds, flowers,
waterfalls, rivulets and sunshine, who assim-
ilate their sentiments and subjects to nature's
varied and changeful moods, revel in the po-
etical inspiration of falling leaves, faded flow-
ers, gorgeous colored forests all aflame with
beauty, brown hills and royal-purple sunsets.

	"But see the fading many-colored woods,
	Shade deep'ning over shade, the country round
	Embrown."
							THOMSON'S SEASONS.

	Autumn in the poets nomenclature is de-
fined as the "Daughter of the Year," she car-
ries off the palm with dignity in royal style.
The year has reached its maturity and is re-
ceiving the crown of its glory, the luscious
fruits of vine and tree, the fields of ripened
grain, gathered with the sickle and gleaned
by the reapers, the bundles strewed or stacked,
stretching afar in the distance, gladden the
eye and convey to the soul the idea of abund-
ance. The golden yellow corn in ear, and all
the varieties of the vegetable kingdom, im-
press one with a sense of fulness, of complete-
ness, and seem the similitude of earth's
wreath of victory and rejoicing.
	Autumn even in her triumph is the precurs-
or of doom, of the cold burial of hopes, of all
that was fresh and green and beautiful in the 
grave of stern, hard relentless winter, the
monarch of the year, who rules with icy cold-
ness and crushes the life from out the heart of
the matron whose full summer has ripened
into maturity. Winter bedecks the brow, so
lately crowned with the victor's wreath of
beauty and bloom, with the cold frosted, glit-
tering icicle.

		"The Autnmn's wind swept o'er the hill,
		And winter's breath comes cold and chill."

	Although we must confess to a lingering love
for Spring and Summer, yet Autumn with its
pensive evening twilights, its "melancholy
sadness," its rustle and flutter of dry leaves,
has something peculiarly akin to poetical senti-
ment, and also really seems congenial, and in
sympathy with the "sober realities of life."
This season may well be termed moody in more
respects than one, for it changes almost daily.
Autumn is almost as fickle in November as
Spring is in April, and the mood of persons
hangs on the same equivocal vicissitudes.
	Autumn does seem peculiarly appropriate for
meditation and reflection, the "sear and yellow
leaf," the fading of "the day's sweet light,"
and the gray shadows of the cool and amber
paling moonlight night, infuse their quiet

[Column 2]
beauty into the human soul. Nature has 
groaned, as it were, with the heavy weight of
"corn and oil," and the sheaves of grain are
full to bursting, and the wine gushes with ful-
ness from the press, and the land o'erflows with
the bounty of the harvest of all earth's pro-
ducts. The sky is flaming with its crimson
shades and coloring, and the reflection drapes
the hills and woods with violet and purple shad-
ows. The landscape mellows as the year wanes
and Winter comes apace. There is a lan-
guage in the trees at this peculiar season that
passes all description; it speaks forcibly to those
who possess intuition, or susceptibility to feel
the influence that pervades the atmosphere of
their locality, and seems to diffuse itself into the
very soul of the lover of nature, and pour itself
forth spontaneously in strains and bursts of en-
thusiasm that run parallel to the surroundings.
It is well to devote a little season to meditation
and reflection, but not allow one's self to merge
into gloom, and dwell too much among shad-
ows, for substance is always preferable to shad-
ows, and to plant one's feet on the solid earth is
surer footing than flying off into the clouds,
however alluring their ethereal proportions
may appear in the distance. One is more cer-
tain of one's self on terra firma than in the re
gion of uncertainty. There is a pathos in the
sighing requiem of the departing glory of Au-
tumn that falls soothingly upon the senses, and
impresses one with a solemnity, mingled with
reverence, that reaches out after and grasps all
of the Infinite with which nature, in her teem-
ing luxuriance, at this season abounds.
	The death of vegetation by frost and wind
late in the autumn is styled the funeral of the
year, it has been born in its characteristic sence,
has been fondled and dandled in the arms of
Spring, has developed into beauty under the
auspices of Summer, and has ripened into ful-
ness of strength and grown sober and gray
with the chilly winds of Autumn and the
trees sigh its requiem, and Winter comes to
grasp with its firm hold, and gather in its
bosom all that remains of beauty and fragrance
of the passing year, and with the Christmas
Holidays make what recompense it may for
marring the beauty and despoiling the glory of
nature's perfection and burying it out of
sight. How many lessons of life may be learned
from the sentiments which the changes of
time involve. How many precious memories
are buried with the fading of the leaves, how
many hopes are blown away regretfully, that
we recall in sympathy with the fluttering
leaves, and the flitting birds, who no longer
sing as before, but pass to other and more con-
genial climes.
	But if one has sown good seed in the heart,
and treasured up in the garner of the mind,
pure thoughts and holy inspirations, then, by
the Winter fireside, with kindly nurture,
these exquisite gems of true and genuine worth
may be growing and strengthening and diffus-
ing light and imparting to other hearts and
other minds a genial warmth, a glowing com-
fort, that may culminate in a purity and fresh-
ness that will beautify and adorn the life in-
doors, and cheer and gladden the atmosphere of
home, or the surroundings of the poor and low-
ly, and give expression and tone to the heaven-
born charity, which properly nourished,
fills the human soul with joy, come Spring or
Summer, Autumn or Winter.
			[handwritten] E. B. Well


NOTICE.

	There will be an annual meeting of the sev-
eral committes on Storing Grain, at the Coun-
cil House in this city, Saturday, Nov. 17th, at


2 o'clock p. m., sharp. Presidents and Secre-
taries of Societies who have been engaged in
Storing Grain for Zion, will please report as
soon as possible by letter to the President of
Central Committee, the amount of grain they
have on hand, how it is stored and what are
their future prospects in this work, in order
that the Central Committee may make a full
and clear as well as definite report of all grain
stored for Zion, and held in trust in the hands
of women. A punctual attendance of all the
sisters of the Societies in this city, or near lo-
calities, is desired.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	SILK.—The Deseret Silk Association met at
the Fireman's Hall according to appointment,
Friday, Oct. 5, Vice-President Mrs. M. I.
Horne presiding.
	Mrs. Horne was pleased to meet with the
Association and to see the interest that was
manifested in this branch of home industry.
She had done her best while travelling through
the settlements in showing the people the ne-
cessity of becoming self-sustaining in all
things. She advised the brethren to plant out
trees and the sisters to raise silk, as they had
been called to that mission by our late beloved
President Brigham Young.
	Mr. C. Swenson, of Pleasant Grove said he
had been very successful in silk-raising and
felt greatly encouraged. He thought next
year there would be a great interest taken in
this branch of home industry. Every family
that could get the trees ought to raise some
cocoons, especially the farmers.
	Mr. W. Smith of Bountiful, said he would
like very much to see the machinery here to 
work up the silk when it was raised; and thus
find employment for children; he had planted
out two hundred trees and a great many cut-
tings. The cuttings he had buried in the
ground had done the best. They should be
planted about eight inches deep.
	Meeting adjourned un[-]il the first Friday in
November, at 3 p. m.
					R. SIMPSON, Secretary.

	THE LOGAN Temple.—The ceremonies of
laying the corner stone of the Logan Temple,
took place on Monday, Sept. 17, and was of a
most impressive character. President John
Taylor with several of the Twelve Apostles,
Counselor D. H. Wells, several Presidents of
Seventies also of High Priests, Presiding Bish-
op, Edward Hunter and his counselors and
clerk, and Presidency of the Salt Lake Stake
of Zion were present. There were also many
of the authorities of Weber and Box Elder
Stakes, and the local authorities of Cache
County, and thousands of people were present
to witness the ceremony. There was a band of
music in attendance and the company was
formed in procession according to programme
arranged for the occasion. The south east cor-
ner stone was first laid. This stone was laid
by the Apostles, the south-west which was
next in order was laid by the Presiding Bish-
op, his counselors and the presidents of the
lesser priesthood and Bishops of Stakes. The
north-west corner was laid by the Presidents
of High Priests and the presidents of Logan
and other stakes; the north-east corner stone
was laid by the Presidents of Seventies and
Elders. At each corner the ceremony consist-
ed of singing a hymn, an appropriate address
and prayer of dedication. The dedicatory
prayers were offered by Apostle F. D. Rich-
ards, Elders L. W. Hardy, Moses Thatcher
and Horace S. Eldridge. The Temple will
certainly be a most magnificent edifice when


[Column 1]
completed. The saints in that county are
working energetically to carry out the instruc-
tions of the late President by their united ef-
forts.

	SYNOPSIS OF a meeting of the Young Ladies
Association of the 13th Ward, held July 5th,
1877. After the usual opening exercises and
reading of the minutes, President Mrs. Thom-
as spoke of the fast meetings and the enjoy-
ment she experienced in attending them. The
teaching from the Bishop and his counselors
was excellent. It seems to be the time for
both old and young to ask themselves if they
are living their religion. Spoke of the vote
passed by the Association in regard to evil
speaking, had since attended a meeting where
the speakers had laid this subject pointedly
before the congregation. Hoped the girls
would ever be found in the path of duty.
Mrs. Zina Y. Williams accepted the position
of 1st Counselor; spoke of the Young Ladies
meetings in Brigham City, and other places
that she had attended while absent. Thought
the Saints were trying to live their religion,
spoke of the trials that would await those who
are earnest in their work; but it will strength-
en us to remember that every time we bind
Satan from our hearts we are triumphing over
wrong and taking one step in the right way;
spoke of the votes we pass from time to time;
it is a most solemn thing to covenant with the
Father, and it will be to our own grief and con-
demnation if we do not keep them faithfully.
Spoke of the homemade hats etc. Counselors
Misses Kate, Annie and May Wells, Miss Lucy
Stringham and Mrs. Fannie Thatcher each
spoke for a short time, after which Sisters Sad-
dler, Bathsheba W. Smith, and M. P. Young,
all bore good testimonies and spoke on the
principles of the Gospel. President Mrs.
Thomas spoke of the temple donations, men-
tioned that twelve dollars and forty cents had
been handed in for the Temple during this
quarter; encouraged the girls to continue with
it. Other remarks were made and the meet-
ing adjourned for one week by singing "Praise
God," and benediction by Mrs. M. P. Young.

	THE SEMI Annual Conference which has
just past had something peculiarly character-
istic in its proceedings that makes it an epoch
in the history of this church. The manner of
voting so entirely new to this people was a 
grand and imposing spectacle in itself and cal-
culated to inspire awe and solemnity in the
hearts of all who witnessed it, and it carried
with it a power that was electrifying in its ef-
fect upon the vast congregation. Nothing
could be more thoroughly impressive, and
none present will ever forget the spirit of the
time and place that hovered over and around
them on that occasion. The perfect union
manifested was in itself something calculated
to give the highest tone of elevation to the
whole assembly.
	Elder George Q. Cannon presented the au-
thorities of the Church; and each quorum of
the Priesthood in their respective order, and af-
terwards the entire congregation voted by ris-
ing simultaneously to their feet at the same
time lifting their right hand. President John
Taylor was sustained as President of the
Twelve Apostles, and of the Presidency of the
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints. The Twelve Apostles as the presiding
quorum and authority of the Church, and as
Prophets, Seers and Revelators. President
John Taylor was also sustained as Trustee-in-
Trust with the Twelve Apostles, their Coun-
selors, and Presiding Bishop Edward Hunter
and his Counselors.

[Column 2]
	The congregation is estimated to have been
from 12,000 to 14,000 in numbers, and yet the
most excellent order prevailed. The preach-
ing praying and music during the entire Con-
ference was of the most exalted character and
tone. It really seems as if everything had
been remembered, and the people had receiv-
ed a fulness of blessings. The brethren of the
Twelve in their manifold blessings did not for-
get the sisters who labor as co-workers in as-
sisting to build up Zion; and the remembrance
of their labors given them at the Conference
will call forth from them a renewal of prayers
and blessings upon the brethren who hold the
keys of the Priesthood and its administration
in Zion.

	TO WOMEN'S ORGANIZATIONS INTERESTED
IN STORING GRAIN FOR ZION.—Storing grain is
one of the subjects on which too much cannot
be said at the present time, and to all who are
desirous of promoting the future good and
prosperity of Israel, we would say talk up the
grain question. That women are ridiculed for
trying to save grain for a famine is true, cer-
tainly, ridiculed here at home among the
saints, and by those who profess to believe in
the future fall of Babylon and its attendant
consequences. They think the help of wo-
men too insignificant to effect anything in
this direction. President Young did not think
so, he believed in the financial ability of wo-
men to systematically organize and institute
such enterprises as would ultimately succeed
in producing the greatest results. We have
repeatedly been told that all that women could
do in this respect would be only as a drop in
the bucket.
	This mission of storing grain has been given
to the women of Utah and many of them re-
alize that it is of the greatest importance. We
know that already considerable grain has
been stored and some granaries have been
built, and much is being done in this matter
by women in various localities in this Terri-
tory. In order to regulate and systematize
this MAMMOTH undertaking, it is of course es-
sential that all should have a thorough under-
standing of the subject, and should be well-
posted in all the details pertaining to the work
from time to time. Women who are engaged
and interested in this work should make every
exertion not only to save all the grain possible,
and preserve it from everything that would
injure it in any way, and use all the influence
they can with others to save and make
appropriations or donations to the grain in the
various wards, but they should also acquaint
others with what they are doing, and let a
record be kept of all grain stored for Zion, and
how and when it is thus stored, and in whose
care, and what are the future plans in regard
to adding to it, and taking measures to care-
fully preserve it. This can only be accom-
plished by having a complete account of every-
thing seperate and apart from other items. In
the meeting held in this interest last fall, we
suggested to the Secretaries of the Relief So-
cieties the expediency of having separate books
for grain. If this suggestion has been followed
out, then there will be very little trouble in
making up reports. It must be understood
by all who have ever read the article publish-
ed by President Young's wish, and reviewed
and approved by him before its publication,
that this grain is being stored for Zion; that
no person, or committee, or president of society
has any right to draw out or dispose of any
of it, for any purpose. The design is to secure
as much as possible and garner it carefully, and
when the right time comes to use it, the prop-
er method of disbursement will be revealed to

[Column 3]
those who hold it in trust for Zion, in as plain
and simple a manner as was the counsel to
purchase and store it. We are pleased with
the good reports we hear from time to time al-
though they are not definite, and we desire as
much as it is possible to encourage the Socie-
ties to persevere in this good cause, for we
know by the revelations of ancient and mod-
ern times that famines are inevitable. We al-
so know that if the future is to be judged of by
the past, then there are the times of famine,
setting prophecy one side; there have been
among all peoples and in all countries times of
scarcity, and America is not exempt and even
were such the case, were other countries in-
volved in famine, how glorious it would be to
come to their aid with bread, with the staff of
life. Sisters rather let all of us put some
means into this organization and buy up the
wheat and preserve it, than to spend any trifle
we can spare in that which will be of no last-
ing benefit to either soul or body. Those who
have known hunger in days past should
feel, that a few hundred bins of wheat scat-
tered throughout the territory, would be more
desirable than all the stores of fancy articles
that could be sustained here. The Women of
Utah may justly be proud of the movement
already made in saving grain, It is some-
thing far ahead of the women of the world,
something entirely original with this people,
and is far in advance of any move other women
have yet made. The Lord inspired our late
President to inaugurate this movement, there
is not a shadow of doubt, and if the sisters are
prompt in carrying out this enterprise, the Lord
will aid them, and all good men and women
will reverence them for it, and their enemies
will be confounded.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		77


WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought I would say a few words through
your valuable paper, praying the Lord to guide
my thoughts with His holy spirit, that I may
say something that may be of interest to your
readers, especially to the young ladies of the
Improvement Associations. I attended one of
their meetings last Monday in the 11th Ward.
I was pleased to see the little girls rise from
their seats and read their selections, and speak.
I thought how lovely and beautiful they looked;
and I feel sure that God and the angels were
pleased with them. I pray the Lord to bless
them with wisdom and knowledge that they 
may learn and understand the things pertain-
ing to life and salvation, and as they grow in
years they may grow in grace and favor with
the Lord; for it is the youth that the greater
portion of this Latter-day work will rest upon.
I pray that they may go on from one degree of
true learning to another, until glory will
crown their labors. When I was a little girl
I was very fond of the little hymn on page 36
in our hymn book.

		Be it my only wisdon here.
		To serve the Lord with f[---]al fear,
			With love and gratitade;
		Superior sense may I display
		By shunning every evil way
			And walking in the good.
									J. BROWN.
20th Ward, S. L. City.


NEVER affect to be witty, or jest so as to
wound the feelings of another.

	SPEAK with calmness and deliberation on
all occasions especially of circumstances
which tend to irritate.


78		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	REMARKS OF ELDER GEORGE Q.
				CANNON,
	AT THE FUNERAL OF PRESIDENT
				YOUNG.

	If there ever is an occasion, brethren and
sisters, when words are too feeble to ex-
press the emotions of the human heart, it
is one like the present. This is a time of
mourning, not a time of speaking. Still
we would not be doing justice to our feel-
ings, nor to the memory of our great lead-
er, if we did not give some utterances to
the feelings that oppress our hearts.
	I have never in my life contemplated
the death of President Young with the
calmness that I have since it occurred; and
I have wondered at myself. It is true it
has been exceedingly difficult for me to
control my feelings, to keep from break-
ing down; but there has been a calmness, a
serenity, a peace connected with his death,
his departure from our midst, that I think
all have felt who have come in contact with
him. His departure was like the falling
asleep of a little infant. No tremor, no
contortions; but as peaceful and as quiet,
as if it were indeed the most gentle slum-
ber. I have often heard President Young
speak about death; and when I saw him
depart I felt that the great wish of his
heart had at last been granted unto him.
Naturally he was a man of indomitable
courage, of an unyielding will; and he
could not submit to the conqueror death
without struggling against him. This was
characteristic of his nature. But his natu-
ral feelings, as I have often heard him re-
mark, and I think he has expressed the
same in public several times, were that he
should hail the day of his release from his
mortal existence as the happiest day of his
life. Whenever it should be the good
pleasure of our Father in heaven to call
him hence, he would go, he said with
great pleasure and satisfaction. But as I
have said as long as life remained, as long
as he felt it his duty to remain here, he
would struggle, he would contend for life,
he would not yield; but would endeavor to 
fnlfill the mission which our Father in
heaven assigned unto him. It is only a
few weeks ago when conversing with one
of the Twelve, I remarked that I would be
afraid, if it were not for one thing that
President Young was not going to remain,
long with us. He was so hurried, was so
urged in his feelings concerning the organ-
ization of the people; pressing matters for-
ward, anxious to get the Priesthood organ-
ized and the Stakes everywhere set in or-
der. He released all the Twelve from pre-
siding over local places. Brother C. C.
Rich, Brother Brigham Young, Junr.
Brother Lorenzo Snow and Brother Frank-
lin D. Richards in the North; Brother Or-
son Hyde and Brother Erastus Snow in
the South; all were released from presid-
ing over the Stakes of Zion, and were told
by the President that their mission had a
larger field than a Stake of Zion. He set
the Priesthood in order as it has never be-
fore been since the first organiz[-]tion of the
Church upon the earth. He defined the
duties of the Apostles, he defined the du-
ties of the Seventies, he defined the duties
of the High Priests, the duties of the Eld-
ers and those of the lesser Priesthood, with
plainness and distinction and power—the
power of God—in a way that it is left on
record in such unmistakable language that
no one need err who has the spirit of God
resting down upon him. And when con-
templating the organization of the Chcrch
as it is, we can testify of the goodness of

[Column 2]
our God and we can feel to accord to him
all praise for giving unto us so great and so
good and so exalted a character as our be-
loved Brother Brigham, whose remains
now lie before us. His value has not been
properly estimated by the Latter-day Saints.
There are none of us who will not realize
this more and more in the future. To-day,
now that we have lost him we can exam-
ine our conduct, and the wish will arise
that we had been more obedient, more wil-
ling to observe his counsels and pay him
that respect and reverence which his great
qualities as a leader and prophet deserved.
This we can do, even though we have been
faithful and obedient. The time will come
when the Latter-day Saints will appreciate
him as one of the greatest prophets that
ever lived. I have been much with him.
I looked upon this association as the great-
est privilege of my life, to have heard his
counsels and witness his life as I have.
And in contemplating that life, it seems
to me perfect: In my eyes and to my feel-
ings he was as perfect a man as could be
in mortality. He certainly never uttered
any counsel, or gave any instruction or
taught any doctrine which I did not en-
dorse with all my heart. This I believe to
be the case with thousands upon thousands
of Latter-day Saints, notwithstanding our
laxity in doing the will of God in all things
as we should have done.
	On Tuesday night, as I sat at the head of
his bed and thought of his death, if it
should occur, I recoiled from the contem-
plation of the view. It seemed to me that
he was indispensable. What could we do
without him? He has been the brain, the
eye, the ear, the mouth and hand of the
entire people of the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints. From the greatest
details connected with the organization of
this Church down to the smallest minutiae
connected with the work he has left upon
it the impress of his great mind. From
the organization of the Church, and the
construction of Temples; the building of
Tabernacles; the creation of a ProvisionalState government and a Territorial govern-
ment, down to the small matter of direct-
ing the shape of these seats upon which
we sit this day; upon all these things, as
well as upon all the settlements in the Ter-
ritory, the impress of his genius is appar-
ent. Nothing was too small for his mind;
nothing was too large. His mind was of
that character that it could grasp the great-
est subjects, and yet it had the capacity to
descend to the minutest details. This was
evident in all his counsels and associations
with the Saints; he had that power, that
wonderful faculty which God gave him
and with which he was inspired. And
while I was thinking of all this, it seemed
as though we could not spare him, he was
indispensable to this great work. And
while I felt it, it seemed as though a voice
said, "I am God; this is my work; it is I
who build it up and carry it forward; it is
my business to guide my saints." He is
our Father and God; he is the Leader, he
cannot die; he is beyond the shafts of the
adversary. And he will guide and direct
his people, if they will listen to his coun-
sels, from this time forward, until they are
led into his celestial kingdom.

	And that we may remember our great
earthly leader and treasure up his teach-
ings, his counsels and instructions and that
we may follow the glorious example he has
set us in his devotion to the work, in his
self-abnegation in putting away everything
that would interfere with the fulfillment
and perfect performance of his duties, as

[Column 3]
Latter-day Saints, is my prayer in the
name of Jesus Christ. Amen.

		ELDER JOHN TAYLOR.

	To-day is a solemn day for Israel. We
have before us the body of the man who
has led us for the last thirty-three years.
Thirty-three years ago I was with and wit-
nessed the departure of our first president
Joseph Smith. He passed away under
very different circumstances from those
which have surrounded President Brigham
Young in his last hours. Immured in pris-
on, surrounded with enemies who sought
his life, and attacked by a ruthless mob,
savage and relentless they took away his
life, and he died by the hand and in the
midst of vindictive and blood-thirsty foes,
who in the absence of legal offense, sur-
charged with deadly venomous hate, clam-
ored for his blood.
	President Young, after leading the Church
and buffeting the trials and persecu-
tions to which the Church has ever been
subjected, has at length, in these valleys of
the mountains, after having accomplished
the object of his life and done the work
that has been represented here so truthfully
by our brethren who have spoken, has lain
down to sleep in the midst of a loving and
affectionate family and surrounded by faith-
ful and tried friends; with hosts of associa-
tions that were loving, sympathetic and in-
teresting, who breathed nothing but con-
dolence, kindness and blessings, and through-
out the Territory the people as with one
voice offered up their prayers to the Most
High in behalf of their suffering, dying
president.
	Both of these presidents had the faith
and confidence of the Saints of the Most
High, and the guidance and direction of
the Lord. And the feeling of the people
as exhibited here, the gathering together
of this Priesthood and the Saints that I see
before me to-day, is evidence of the re-
spect and kindness that beat in every heart
and throb through every pulse; and it is
gratifying to know that the same feelings
prevail throughout the length and breadth
of this Territory. As has been said, his
name and fame are known among all peo-
ple, and a knowledge of these events has
spread to the uttermost bounds of the ever-
lasting hills. All nations have heard of it,
and all peoples are interested in these events
that are now surrounding us. Not only us
and them, but the Gods in the eternal
worlds. The former President Joseph
Smith, and this our late President Brigham
Young, meet again face to face in the eter-
nal worlds. Both have triumphed, both
have overcome.
	As has been remarked, the work we are
engaged in is not the work of man. Jo-
seph Smith did not originate it, neither did
Brigham Young, nor the Twelve nor any
mortal man. It emanated from God, he is
its author, his eve is over us, he is watch-
ing every movement and every transaction
that transpires now, and that transpired ever
since the commencement, and will continue
so to do; he will guide the ship to the lat-
ter end. It is He that has been our Grand
Leader; these others now departed have
been our brethren, appointed to lead and
guide us, under his direction in the paths
of life. And although we mourn the loss of
our departed friend, a brother and a presi-
dent, and although the feelings of our
hearts sympathize with his family and
friends, yet at the same time there are
principles greater and grander than any
personal interest, or any individuality asso-
ciated with these matters. It is a heavenly


interest, the building up of Zion the estab-
lishment of the Kingdom of God and the
rolling forth of his purposes upon the earth.
And while Brother Joseph and Brother
Brigham sleep, yet both of them live, and
both of them, as they operated in time,
will operate in eternity in behalf of the
whole of Israel and the consummation of our
Father’s purposes. These are things in
which the Gods are interested; and all the
priesthood, and apostles and prophets and
men of God that have ever breathed, are
also interested with us.
	And it is for us, as Latter-day Saints to
magnify our calling and our priesthood,
honoring our God by performing faithfully
and well the duties devolving upon us, that
as the changing scenes we are anticipating
shall come upon all nations—revolutions suc-
ceeding revolutions, we may have a steady
onward movement, guided by the Lord;
that we may progress and steady affairs
among his people and provide a refuge for
the distressed among the assembling na-
tions; that the light, intelligence and power
of God may shine in our midst, that Zion
may arise and shine, and the glory of God
rest upon her.
	I do not wish to prolong the time; but
felt like making a few remarks. To the
family of President Young I say “God
bless you! The God of heaven comfort
your hearts! May peace flow unto you, and
may you be led in the paths of life, and im-
itate the example of your departed hus-
band, father and friend! And you Latter-
day Saints follow in his footsteps, in the
paths of righteousness. Let us obey all of
God’s laws, and all will be well with us.
We are not alone! God is with us, and he
will continue with us from this time hence-
forth and forever. And while we mourn a
great and good man dead, I see thousands
of staunch and faithful ones around me
and before me who are for Israel, for God
and his kingdom; men who are desirous to
see his will done on earth as angels do it in
heaven.
	That God may bless us all, and lead us in
the paths of life, is my prayer in the name
of Jesus. Amen.—"Deseret News."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN FOR OFFICE.

	In the great cry against Woman's Rights,
the greatest fear of some men seems to be
that women might obtain some office that is
now held by man. Have no fear on that
score, brethren. Among all my female ac-
quaintances I do not know of one woman
who wishes to hold the office of sheriff;
but many of my male acquaintances have
made themselves unhappy because their
friends did not see fit to elect them sheriff,
or at least to nominate them for that office.
I know of no woman who wishes to be State
representative, but I know of a number of
men who feel chagrined and indignant be-
cause their friends thought them unfit to
be legislators, and voted for the "other
man." Who knows a woman who would
be willing to go before a convention for any
mere office of state or nation? And who
does not know that there are other things
for women to think about? No, no, it is
not the desire to hold office (although there
are many offices that women might hold
without losing the respect that is accorded
to woman) that engages so many female
minds, but the right to hold their own
children, and to hold what they earn by
the sweat of their brow, and the right to
say whether a man, or a mere apology,
should sit in the legislative halls and make


the laws whereby they are governed. In
the days of slavery it was the slave mother
and not the slave father that held the child.
The slave has been emancipated; given the
right to vote, and made custodian (so to
speak) of his wife, her earnings and her
children. While the uneducated and super-
stitious male negro is made of as much im-
portance at the ballot-box as the president
of the United States, woman, with the
companionship of books and papers, is
deemed unfit to vote. Such is the law of
our nation; we make no war upon that law.
We only wish to suggest to man that he
pause upon his road of usefulness, and con-
sider how much (or rather how little) he
would have accomplished had it not been
for the companionship and counsel of wo-
man. Where is the man noted for his wis-
dom and goodness; but will say that "a good
woman made me what I am?" Woman
guides the destinies of man; acknowledge
her worth by recognizing her rights of citi-
zenship.				MRS. E. C. 
	—Woman's Words.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	LET US HAVE CHEAPER RAILWAYS.—We
have at this time about 60,000 miles of
broad gauge railway in operation in the
United States.
	These railways have cost from $20,000 to
$60,000 per mile. Estimating their aver-
age cost at $40,000 per mile, they represent
$2,400,000,000.
	Had we originally adopted the narrow
gauge, at half the cost of the broad, the
expenditure would have been $1,200,000,-
000, leaving an equal amount for invest-
ment in manufacturing and other enter-
prises.
	Or, with the $2,400,000,000 invested in
narrow gauge, it would have given us 240,-
000 miles in active operation to-day. It
needs no argument to demonstrate that, if
we had double the number of miles in oper-
ation that we now have, our resources
would be developed much more rapidly
than is now being done.
	Neither does it need any argument to
prove that, had our railways cost us only
$10,000 to $20,000 per mile, it would have
cost less to operate them, and that our gen-
eral interests would have been advanced in
a corresponding degree.—Ex.


WOMEN IN CHINA.

	The condition of women in China is most
pitiable; suffering, privation, contempt, all
kinds of misery and degradation seize on
her in her cradle, and accompany her piti-
lessly to the tomb. Her very birth is com-
monly regarded as a humiliation and dis-
grace to the family,—an evident sign of the
malediction of heaven. If she is not im-
mediately suffocated, she is treated and
looked upon as a creature intrinsically dis-
picable, and scarcely belonging to the hu-
man race. This appears so incontestable a
fact, that Pan-houi-pan, celebrated, though
a woman, among Chinese writers, endeav-
ors in her works to humiliate her own sex
by reminding them constantly of the infe-
rior rank they occupy in the creation.
"When a son is born," she says, "he sleeps
on a bed, he is clothed with silk and plays
with pearls; every—one attends to his
princely cries. But when a girl is born,
she sleeps upon the ground, is meanly
wrapped up in cloth, plays with a tyle, and
is incapable of acting either virtuously or


viciously. She has nothing to think of but
preparing food, making wine, and not vex
ing her parents." Even after marriage her
case is not improved. According to the
expressions of an old Chinese writer, "the
newly-married wife should be but a shadow
and echo in the house." She has no right
to take her meals with her husband; nay,
not even with her male children; her duty
is to serve them at table, to stand by them
in silence, help them to drink and light
their pipes. She must eat alone, and after
they are done, and in a corner; her food is
scanty and coarse, and she would not dare
to touch even what is left by her own sons.
It may be thought that this idea does not
well agree with the much-talked-of princi-
ples of filial piety; but it must not be for-
gotten that in China the woman counts for
nothing; the law ignores her existence, or
notices her merely to load her with fetters,
to complete her servitude, and to confirm
her legal incapacity.—Dublin University
Magazine.


EDGAR ALLAN POE.

	The following poem, attributed to Edgar
Allan Poe, and first published by the Koko-
mo (Ind.) "Dispatch", was discovered by
the editor of that journal on the fly-leaf of
an old book. Attracted by the initials "E.
A. P.," at the bottom of the page, he in-
quired the author's name, when the owner
of the book, who seemed through lack of
education unable to appreciate the treasure,
informed him that his grandparents, who
gave him the book, kept a country hotel in
a small village called Chesterfield, near
Richmond, Va. One night a young man
rapped at the door, and asked if he could
stay there until morning. He was shown
a room, and that was the last they saw of
him. When they went to call him to
breakfast next morning, they found he had
gone away and left the book, on the fly-leaf
of which were written the lines we give
below, "verbatim." The poem is written
in Roman characters, without erasure or an
interlineated word, and is almost as legible
as print, though somewhat faded by the
lapse of time. Here it is:	

	LEONAINIE.

Leonalnie—angels named her, 
	And they took the light
Of the laughing stars and framed her
	In smile of white
		And they made her hair of gloomy
		Midnight, and her eyes of bloomy
		Moonshine, and they brought her to me
	In a solemn night.

In a solemn night of summer
	When my heart of gloom
Blossomed up to greet the comer
	Like a rose in bloom.
		All foreboding that distressed me
		I forgot as joy caressed me—
		(Lying joy that caught and pressed me
	In the arms of doom.)

Only spake the little lisper
	In the angel tongue;
Yet I, listening, heard her whisper:
	"Songs are only sung
		Here below that they may grieve you—
		Tales are told you to deceive you—
		So must Leonainie leave you—
	While her love is young."

Then God smiled and it was morning,
	Matchless and supreme;
Heaven’s glory seemed adorning
	Earth with its esteem;
		Every heart but mine seemed gifted
		With the voice of prayer, and lifted
		Where my Leonainie drifted
	From me like a dream.

		E. A. P.


80		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCIENTIFIC NOTE.

	PROFESSOR Grote maintains that the origi-
nal inhabitants of America came from Asia
by way of the North during the latter part
of the miocene or earlier part of the plio-
cene, and that this tertiary population
spread to the south along the mountainous
backbone of the two Americas; that on the
advent of the glacial epoch the people liv-
ing in the extreme North were modified by
the change in climate, and were brought
down by the ice, and followed it back again
to the arctic circle, and that the present re-
presentatives of glacial man are the Esqui-
maux. Through a study of migrations, he
reaches the conclusion that the ice must
have acted as a barrier to further communi-
cation between the continents of Asia and
America, and consequently that the civiliz-
ations of Central America and of the
mound-builders are indigenous.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	WE protract the career of time by em-
ployment; we lengthen the duration of our
lives by wise thoughts and useful actions.
Life to him who wishes not to have lived
in vain is thought and action.—Zimmer-
mann.
	M. THIERS' small stature was often ridi-
culed. One day as he was walking up the
Champs-Elysees two ladies, who wished to
get a good view of him, approached, and
one of them exclaimed, "How little he is!"
"Yes, madam," replied M. Thiers, turning
around, "but I am somewhat bigger at a
distance."—Ex.


THE MILITARY SALUTE.—The military
salute found its origin in the tournaments
of the Middle Ages, so described by Sir
Walter Scott in his "Waverly Novels." Af-
ter the Queen of Beauty was enthroned,
the knights who were to take part in the
sports of the day marched past the dias on
which she sat, and as they passed they
shielded their eyes from the rays of her
beauty. Such was the very interesting ori-
gin of the old salute. The principal part
of the officer's salute—kissing the hilt of
the sword—dates also from the Middle
Ages. When the crusaders were on their
march toward the Holy City, the knights
were in the daily custom of planting their
long, two-handed swords upright in the
ground, thereby forming a cross, and before
these they performed their morning devo-
tions. It was a solemn and impressive cus-
tom. On all military occasions they kissed
the hilt of their swords in token of their
devotion to the cause of the cross, and this
custom was perpetuated after the crusad-
ers were numbered among the things of
the past and the religious origin of the sa-
lute was forgotten.


SHREDS AND GLEANINGS.

	AIM at cheerfulness without levity.

	NEVER ridicule sacred things, or what
others may esteem as such, however ab-
surd they may appear to you.

	NEVER resent a supposed injury till you
know the views and motives of the author
of it. And on no occasion relate it.

	ALWAYS take the part of an absent per-
son, who is censured in company, so far as
truth and propriety will allow.


A man of genius seeks applause; while
the little-minded of those who have but a
small portion of intellect, try by their van-
ity and conceited boastings to build upon
the mental resources of others their own
fame and reputation. However, it is for
the best, for they soon fall to their proper
level—once they reach it, they never rise.


[Column 1]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

	The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

	[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

		NEW FALL STOOK.

	F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

	SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.

Call at the Constitution Building, Salt Lake Cirt, and ex-
amine the large stock of goods just recieved from the
Mill, consisting of Fine White and Colored Yarns, Flan-
nels, Linseys, Etc.
				JOHN C. CUTLER,
									AGENT.
		ROWE'S
			CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
	Big Boot, Main Street.

	No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

VISITORS TO CONFERENCE
	Amply Repaid by Visiting
TEASDEL,
			FOR
	FAMILY SUPPLIES
			FOR
FALL AND WINTER WEAR.

[Column 2]
	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

	NOTICE TO THE LADIES.
THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
	DRY GOODS,
					IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
	Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

