VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 15, 1878.	No. 16.


MY SISTER.

BY ELLEN SIMS.

Fit mate for Clara Vere de Vere,
	You sought our hilly homestead brown,
To find the health that you had lost
	In winter's wild campaign in town.
For trout you sought our crystal streams;
	You sketched our hills and valleys wild;
In idle moments sought to win
	A maiden's pure heart, undefiled.

Though knowing naught of worldly guile,
	She saw your soul with truthful eyes;
Beneath your studied speech and smile
	She saw the serpent in disguise.
"Recall," she said, "your foolish vows;
	It is not love you bear for me;
To-morrow you'll regret these words,
	Prompted by wounded vanity.

"What think you Newport's belle would say,
	If she her own sworn knight conld see
In rustic arbor, on his knees,
	Make love to country lass like me.
Conceited, useless, fickle, vain,
	Why should you play so vile a part?—
Merely for wantonness to strive
	To break a country maiden's heart.

I scorn you, that, with power and wealth,
	And your vast opportunity.
You sit content to spend your life
	In the soft lap of luxury.
Go choose a bride with lily hands,
	To wear your lace and jewels rare;
Of stately step and studied grace,
	Soulless and useless, vain yet fair.

Return to town; and when you find
	Such bride, midst fashion's devotees,
Reflect your worth would not suffice
	A simple country girl to please."
I saw the scene and heard the words
	As I lay concealed amidst the wood;
He plead no more his hopeless love,
	But turned and left her where she stood.

Yet backward glanced, as well he might,
	For fairer picture ne'er was seen—
In wild and gipsy grace she stood
	Within a frame of living green;
Her chestnut hair o'er broad full brow,
	In smooth, bright waves came floating down,
But backward thrown did not conceal
	Her graceful shoulders, bare and brown.

The bust of Physche could scarcely match
	Her bosom's perfect form and grace;
Her red lips wreathed in scornful smile,
	Her eyes the glory of her face;
She smiling stood, till winding path
	His form concealed among the trees;
Then turned and sought our humble home
	With heart as light as summer breeze.

Beaver, July, 1875.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
			AFTER LONG YEARS.
				LETTER V.

	What are the hopes that have grown with the years,
	Nourish'd in pain, and born of our sorrow—
	Christen'd by grief, baptized with our tears,
	Cloth'd with resolve and faith in the morrow?

	Since I addressed my last letter to the
readers of the EXPONENT another year has
rendered up its record, and a balance sheet
has been struck, and a new, clean page has
been presented on which to write our
names, and enter the list with our fellow-
workers and companions for the champion-
ship in bravery and heroism (if we will) in
the good cause of self-improvement and
progression. How many vows have been
recorded in the archives of the angels to

[Column 2]
begin anew, to redeem the past, to pay off
the old debts of neglect of duty, or indul-
gence of self—by adding to each day some
good, in recompense for the unfulfilled ob-
ligations of the former year. These are
some of the thoughts suggested by the ad-
vent of the New Year. Each successive
year brings us its changes, and its peculiar
retinue of hopes, desires and ambitions, in-
spired by the conditions of the times, and
their bearing upon the individual organiz-
ation.
	The circumstances and conditions of
countries and nations control the thoughts
and aspirations of peoples. We are more
or less susceptible at all times to the influ-
ence of surrounding elements, which act
and react upon our organizations, and pro-
duce their corresponding results. There-
fore we cannot be sure of anything but our
trust in God—for events of importance fol-
low each other in such quick and unlooked
for succession, that the most ingenious
plans may be frustrated, and hopes blasted
by the changes which may transpire sud-
denly.
	Any person of reflection must find much
food for thought in recalling incidents
which have had a serious bearing upon the
most important events in one's own person-
al history. Our lives are made up of chap-
ters, each one having its own peculiar open-
ing clauses or paragraphs. Some of these
are rich and racy, full of all that is most
hopeful, most desirable, and most pleasant,
and anon just turn the page and there ap-
pears sad and sorrowful events, which we
shudder as we recall, and thank God the
ordeal has been passed, and we have had
strength and courage given us sufficient to
endure, though we may not have overcome.
The trials which we pass through make our
joys rich by comparison, and teach us "to
feel another's woe" more vividly than we
otherwise could. Difficult lessons are only
mastered by great efforts and earnest appli-
cation, and this rule applies admirably to
the lives of individuals. When we have
exerted all our faculties and used our best
endeavors, there is always One to whom we
can look for inspiration to help us, and if
our faith is sufficient we shall not beseech
in vain.					AUNT EM.


NOTES AND NEWS.

 A ROYAL Marriage is shortly to be con-
summated in Spain.  King Alfonso and
Princess Mercedes are to be joined in the
holy bonds of matrimony on the 2d of Feb-
ruary next.
STANLEY, THE African explorer, is being
"feted" everywhere on his return home,
and loaded with honors.  He is at present
in Rome.  His success as an explorer has
won the admiration of all interested in dis-
coveries.
 THE GREEK politician, Demetrins Bul-
garis, died Jan. 11.  His death will pro-
duce a great change, no doubt, in the affairs
of Greece, as he was the leading spirit of
the liberal party in that Country—the land
which was once the seat of learning and of 
fame.
 A LARGE number of women's petitions
have been presented in Congress since its
session, representing a great many thou-
sand names, praying Congress for a com-
mission of inquiry regarding the alcholic
liquor traffic.
 THE TURKO-Russian war is spreading
devastation and distress over the whole of
Eastern Europe, and it is scarcely possible
now for England to remain neutral.  Adrian-
ople is now open to the Russians.  Con-
quest after conquest by the Russians leaves
little doubt but the Turks must eventually
be overpowered.  The Turks have fought
desperately to maintain their possessions.
England is naturally very much excited;
and fears are entertained that Russia, em-
boldened by her success, will force England
to measures of antagonism.
 VICTOR EMANUEL II, late King of Italy,
died in the royal palace, Quirinal, in Rome,
on Wednesday, Jan. 9, of malarial fever, a
disease which is quite common in Rome at
this season of the year.  The death of this
celebrated monarch will have an important
bearing upon the Roman Catholic Church,
undoubtedly and very probably upon the
war now raging in Eastern Europe.  Vic-
tor Emanuel II has effected wonderful
changes in the kingdom of Italy; has made
some powerful conquests through his daring
diplomacy and political tact.  Prince Hum-
bert, the eldest son of the King, and his
rightful successor, has already issued a pro-
clamation to the Italians, in which he says,
among other things, that his "sole ambition
will be to deserve the love of his people."
The Pope, who is himself very ill, sent two
prelates to the King during his illness, with
the papal benediction: it is said, too, ex-
pressing his regrets that he was not able to
attend in person.  The Pope is suffering
seriously from paralysis.  Victor Emanuel
II was the life-long enemy of His Holiness
Pius IX.
 THE FORTY-FIFTH Congress re-assembled
after the vacation of the holidays, on Fri-
day, Jan. 11, and among other items of
business presented almost immediately, was
the Sixteenth Amendment petition, offered
by the Honorable Mr. Sargent, Senator
from California.  Mrs. Sargent, wife of the
Senator, is Treasurer of the National Suf-
frage Association.  This gentleman has
shown his nobility of character, in undertak-
ing to represent the cause of the women of
America in the Halls of the National Con-
gress, knowing as he does how unpopular
said cause is.
	"Section 1. The right of the citizens of
the United States to vote shall not be de-
nied, or abridged, by the United States, or
by any State, on account of sex.
	"Section 2. Congress shall have power to
enforce this article by appropriate legisla-
tion."
	To-day has been appointed by the Senate
Committee on Privileges and Elections, to
consider, in connection with arguments
presented, the proposed Sixteenth Amend-
ment, offered by Senator Sargent in behalf
of the representatives of Woman's Suffrage
from the various States and Territories.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General meeting of the Retrench-
ment Associations was held in the Council
House, Saturday, Jan. 5th, 1878. The
meeting was a large one. Mrs. M. I. Horne
presided, who, in her opening remarks
wished the sisters all "A Happy New Year,"
and that peace, joy and prosperity might
be in their households during the present
year. She sought to impress upon the
minds of her hearers the duty devolving
upon woman, of seeking to make home
happy and pleasant, adding many items
relative to the subject of making a heaven
for ourselves, and concluded by saying she
would like the sisters to begin the New
Year by testifying to the goodness of God.
Counselor E. R. Snow in her remarks al-
luded to the promises made to the House
of Israel, and referred to the map of the
promised land as given by Ezekiel the Pro-
phet; also made some interesting remarks
about the Woman's Store, and the great in-
terest she had in the success of the efforts
made to establish home manufacture. She
also spoke earnestly upon the remonstrance
of the women of Utah in circulation,
against the bills now in Congress, which
are calculated to deprive us of rights and
privileges of citizenship in almost every
respect, politically, socially and religiously.
Counselor P. Woodruff said the sisters who
had spoken had expressed thoughts and
ideas which were in harmony with hers.
She felt it was necessary for all to live their
religion, and be prepared for all things, for
great events were at hand; we were daily
approaching a time of great importance.
She referred to the plain manifestation she
had received in the special meeting of Dec.
22, that if the sisters were united there
would be no danger of anything being done
to seriously injure our cause, but every-
thing would be in our favor. Mrs. E. S.
Barney spoke of many of the duties of life
being of special importance, small as well
as large ones; compared our position here
to a map with its latitude and longitude, its
smaller and larger points and so on. Spoke
earnestly and emphatically upon home-
manufactures, and especially silk culture,
the necessity of our energetic action in be-
coming self sustaining. Counselor E. How-
ard made some good remarks upon the
duties of life, and spoke of President
Young's farewell words to her on a certain
occasion: "Peace be with you;" said it
made a very strong impression upon her,
and ever since she had sought for peace by
cultivating it, and the Lord had blessed her
with it greatly. She spoke of observing
our fast-days, and gave some good counsel
to the sisters in regard to each Society
adopting some special branch of home in-
dustry, which it seemed to her would be
very beneficial.
	Counselor Zina D. Young spoke of the
Medical Lectures by Mrs. Romania B. Pratt,
M. D., and Mrs. Ellen B. Ferguson, M. D.
These lectures she thought should be at-
tended by our young ladies, who are to be
the future mothers of the race. She said
that she recently heard an Apostle say, that
if the education of either boys or girls was
necessarily to be neglected, it should be the
boys; for girls were to be the mothers of
the coming race, on which would rest the
building up of Zion. She also spoke upon
Celestial Marriage. Counselor B. W. Smith
wished the sisters a Happy New Year, and
made a few remarks, encouraging the sis-
ters to persevere. Several others made ap-
propoiate remarks, and a spirit of union
and good feeling prevaded the hearts of

[Column 2]
the sisters. Meeting adjourned until Sat-
urday, Jan. 19, at the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms.

	MONROE, SEVIER CO., Dec. 27, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	Thinking a few lines from the Young La-
dies Improvement Association of this place
would not be uninteresting to your readers,
we venture a report of our progress since
we were organized as an Association.
	We were organized under the direction
of President Franklin Spencer, Sept. 13th,
1877, with the following officers:
	Mrs. Julia Larsen, President.
	"	Ann Sidd,		}	Counselors.
	"	Mary Ann Jones,	}
	"	Francis Collings, Secretary.
	Miss Minnie Cooper, Treasurer.
	Since our organization we have raised
ten dollars in money, with which we have
purchased shares in our new Co-operative
Store. We have a Y. M. M. I. A., which
is in good condition. We with them are
combining our efforts to procure a library
for our mutual benefit.
	We hold meetings once in two weeks,
which are lively; in them we feel well and
enjoy the Spirit of the Gospel. We desire
to improve our talents and prepare our-
selves for usefulness, in obedience to the
commandments of God, for the building up
of His kingdom and promoting the welfare
of Zion, by refraining from that which we
know to be evil, by trying to elevate and
improve our minds, and by living accord-
ing to the requirements of the glorious
principles of the gospel of Christ.
	We are also raising some donations for
the Temple at Manti.
	Wishing success to your valuable paper,
which we consider a blessing to all the sis-
ters of the Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, We remain your sisters in
the Gospel,
		JULIA LARSEN, President,
		L. E. WASHBURN, Cor. Sec.

		WEST JORDAN, Jan. 4th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Annual Report of West Jordan Relief
Society for 1877:
Donations received..................... $181.90
Disbursed to the poor................    173.13
Stock in West Jordan Woolen
	Mills.......................................    700.00
Dividend on Stock.......................     169.51
Assessments on Stock................       86.85
Paid on Assessments..................       56.85
Amount in Treasury—Temple
	clothes...................................       20.00
Cash, sundries, &c........................       31.10
	We are trying to do all we can to help
the cause of Zion and to administer to the
wants of the poor and the needy among us.
We have our monthly meetings and we
meet together to make clothes for the poor
in our Ward and we have quite a number
here to support.
	The EXPONENT is an ever welcome mes-
senger among us, and we wish it success.
	We haven't stored much grain yet, for
the brethren are building a granary for the
ward, and we are going to have a share in
it, and expect to lay up more wheat next
year.
	Our sincere prayer is for the prosperity
of Zion and all her institutions, and our
desires are to do all the good we can. We
remain your sisters respectfully,
		ALTHEA GARDNER, President,
		LOUISA EGBERT,	}	Counselors.
		AGNES COOPER,	}
		DELILA GARDNER,	Secretary,

[Column 3]
			CLARKSTON, Nov. 3d, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place were
blessed with the presence of some of the
good sisters from Salt Lake City, and re-
ceived from them some valuable instruc-
tion. Meeting opened with the usual ex-
ercises, after which Mrs. Zina D. Young ad-
dressed the assembly. Mrs. Young said
she felt very much gratified in meeting
with the sisters in their new Meeting
House. She felt to ask the Lord for a bless-
ing in our meeting together. She advised
the sisters to lay up wheat for a time of
need; supposed they had already com-
menced, and explained that what they did
store up no one had any right to use, until
those who had counseled us to store it up
should advise us to disburse it. She said
if there was nothing more in our religion
than "Baptism for the Dead" and "Celestial
Marriage," it was worth living for. The
Prophet Joseph Smith in his lifetime said
the Relief Society was not only to adminis-
ter to the needy, but to save souls. She
spoke very instructively in regard to dress,
said we should dress so that we can feel
comfortable, without regard to the fashions
of the world; she also made some good re-
marks in regard to our food; gave some
good counsel to young men on the subject
of using tobacco and stimulants, and to the
young sisters on various subjects pertain-
ing to their mission here on the earth. She
advised the sisters to take the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. She thought those sisters who
were willing to live in plural marriage had
made a step towards loving their neighbors
as themselves. She bore testimony that
the principle of Celestial Marriage was true,
and advised the sisters never to say a word
against it. She told us how to bring up
our children, and said never to correct them
in anger. She also said the sisters could
enjoy themselves without doing anything
to grieve the Holy Spirit; God did not
wish us to be sad, but to be cheerful. She
concluded by asking the blessing of God
upon us. She afterwards exhibited some
specimens of home-manufactured silk arti-
cles.
Mrs, E. Davis said she felt thankful for
the privilege of meeting with the sisters of
this place; she was sorry that Miss Snow
could not be with us, but she would read
one of Miss Snow's poems, which she com-
posed in Palestine, concerning the curse
which rested upon the Jews. She advised
the young to seek unto the Lord in their
youth; their parents would not always be
with them, and it was necessary for them
to have a knowledge for themselves of the
divinity of the work in which they are en-
gaged. She related some of her experiences
in the church, which were very interesting.
She gave some very good instruction in re-
lation to home industries, and mentioned
the articles made by the sisters for the
Centennial Exhibition in Salt Lake City.
She said strangers visiting the city said
the articles compared very favorably with
those they had seen elsewhere. She en-
couraged the sisters to go to work and
manufacture all the clothing they could for
their families, and solicited them to sub-
scribe for the EXPONENT and assist in sus-
taining that paper, and by so doing aid the
Elders in spreading truth to the world.
She closed by invoking the blessings of
God upon all, both old and young.
	Some other excellent things were said
for our comfort, and the meeting was ad-
journed. Prayer by Elder W. O. Carbine.
		MARY GRIFFIN, President,
			JANE GODFREY, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


REST.

Too little rest, too little sleep,
Too many hours to sow and reap–
	At last disease and pain!
Weak grows the never-loosened hand;
The strongest ropes part, strand by strand,
	Beneath a ceaseless strain.

Let him who burns his midnight oil
In lonely and unwholesome toil
	Think, when he trims his lamp,
That thus he trims his life as well,
And hastens towards the last low cell–
	Its darkness and its damp.

He who would travel far and long,
And keep a stately stride and strong,
	Must rest beside the way.
A ceaseless pace at first may win,
But he who halts at wayside inn
	At last shall win the day.
	
To weary feet all streams are deep,
All roads are rough, all hills are steep,
	As wayworn travelers know.
One hour of rest is a precious boon
To him who toils through heats of noon,
	With painful steps and slow.
Then, ye who hope to make your mark
Ere your last night-fall, cold and dark!
	And stand above the throng
On some far, sun-kissed height of thought,
Or do some deed no hand hath wrought–
	Work, rest–and so be strong.


[Column 1]

TO THE PRESIDENTS AND MEMBERS OF
THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF SALT LAKE
STAKE OF ZION, GREETING!

	Beloved Sisters:—Through revelation
from God the Prophet Joseph Smith organ-
ized the first Society of sisters in this last
dispensation, saying to the people that the
Priesthood was not firmly established on
the earth, without an organization of this
kind. He gave the sisters much valuable
instruction, and predicted a great future for
this organization. In consequence of the
exodus from Nauvoo, this Society was brok-
en up. After the Saints were located in
these valleys of the mountains, President
Brigham Young counseled the organization
of branches of this Society, in all the Stakes
of Zion; and as the kingdom of God pro-
gresses in a more complete organization
throughout all the different Stakes of Zion,
so by the counsel of our late President are
the Relief Societies being organized with a
Presidency over the several Stakes of Zion,
to meet once in three months and have Re-
ports read from the different branches of
the Relief Society through the county. As
we have been elected to preside over this
county, we feel much need of the Spirit of
God to enable us in our weakness to dis-
charge our duties in this position. We feel
truly thankful that through the blessing of
our Heavenly Father, we, His handmaid-
ens are called to be co-laborers with our
brethren in building up the kingdom of 
God upon the earth, in assisting to build
Temples, wherein we can receive blessings
for time and eternity. In all the ordinances
received in the House of the Lord, woman
stands beside the man, both for the living
and the dead, showing that the man is not
without the woman nor the woman without
the man in the Lord. Then what manner
of women should we be? Faithful in per-
forming all the duties devolving upon us as
daughters of God. Sisters, do we appre-
ciate the privileges we enjoy, and the re-
lationship we sustain to God, to each other,
and to His kiugdom on the earth? We
know there are very many faithful sisters,
striving with all their might to do all that
is required of them. To all such we say,
God bless you, sisters! and give you strength
to do all your hearts desire to do in right-
eousness.

[Column 2]

	We shall be pleased to visit the different
Societies whenever it is convenient to the
Societies for us to do so. We would say to
the Presidents, Be diligent in laying before
the sisters the necessity of doing all they
can to promote the interests of Zion, by
sustaining our institutions of home-indus-
try, as well as our own literature. We are
convinced that there are hundreds of dol-
lars sent out of this country every year
for trashy literature in which there is no
profit. Sustain our own publications—the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, the only woman's
paper published in Zion, our chnrch works,
Sister E. R. Snow's poems, and the Wo-
man's Book, the Life of Brigham Young—
all these works will give the youth a know-
ledge of what the Saints had to endure
while trying to establish the gospel on the
earth. Much will be required at the hands
of the parents, for the teachings and exam-
ples they give their children.
	May peace and the blessing of God be in
the hearts and habitations of all who are
interested in the work of the Lord, is the 
prayer of
	M. ISABELLA HORNE, President,
ELMINA S. TAYLOR,
SEREPTA M. HEYWOOD,	Counselors.


REMONSTRANCE.

	So they want to take away our right of
Franchise do they, and why? will you please
tell me? A few years ago they wanted us
to have the right of franchise, crying the
women of Utah were such down-trodden
slaves to men that it was necessary to give
us the right of the ballot box to free our-
selves. Our legislature granted their de-
sires and for eight years we have exercised
our rights; what have we done that the
privilege should be taken from us? We
have not even abused our enemies in the
only paper we publish, viz., the EXPONENT,
we have never noticed in any way the
abuse and slang of our enemies, but treat-
ed it with the silent contempt it deserves;
we have been moderate in all things, re-
joicing in our emancipation, thankfully ac-
cepting the blessing as a precious right, too
precious to be trifled with, or abused. Those
who have observed will tell the women of
the world that the women of Utah have
improved rapidly since receiving that bless-
ing; so much so as to astonish any think-
ing mind. They have leaped upward tak-
ing their place side by side with man, not
in antagonism but as helpmeets. The fran-
chise here in Utah is developing powers
in women that will astonish the world, and
that soon. It will settle the vexed ques-
tion as to the superior intellect of man over
woman. Since the women have voted the
Territory has not gone backward, neither
have we forced ourselves into public notice
by abusing the men nor elbowing our way
regardless of their rights, we have endeav-
ored to act as sensible women, by voting for
those whom we felt best qualified to fill the
offices. Judging from what I have observ-
ed no man should be afraid of women hav-
ing the right of franchise, if eight years of
freedom has not begun to develop any evil
tendency I think it will be a piece of cru-
elty to deprive us of that right. In con-
tradiction of all the lies written and spoken
about us, we are among the most law-abid-
ing and virtuous women on the face of the
earth, for we truly try to live above the
law.
	We are thankful to the women of the
States for their noble efforts to stop the pas-
sage of any bill that will deprive us of our
rights; and are willing to do anything con-


sistently to help them obtain theirs. If
they should take the right of Franchise
from us, it wi[-]l be the death blow to the
women of the States ever obtaining that
right.						MARY.
	Grantsville, Dec. 31st, 1877.


R. S. .REPORTS.

		SOUTH MORGAN, NOV. 16 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Thinking a few lines would not be out of
place just to let you know what we have
been doing here, I subjoin the following:
	The sisters in this place feel desirous to
do all in their power for the furtherance of
this great and glorious work and in car-
rying out the instructions of our beloved
President in storing grain. Several have
had grain sown in the hope of getting a
good crop, but owing to grasshoppers and
frost it is not so good as it otherwise might
have been, but still by the blessing of our
Heavenly Father, we have raised in this
place fifty-six bushels which is carefully
stored in a bin in the Co-op store, placed
there by the society that it might be kept
separate and distinct from any thing else;
as to our future prospects we intend to do
all we can both in raising wheat and by do-
nations. We have a sewing meeting once
a week, and a business meeting once a
month, when the teachers give in their re-
ports; these meetings are well attended,
and each member seems desirious to do all
the good they can, in counseling and guid-
ing the young in the paths of truth and
virtue.
	That every effort that is being made for
the good of this work may be crowned with
success is the prayer of your sister in the
gospel,				S. A. RAWLE, Sec'y.

		ST. JOHN, MALAD VALLEY,
					Dec. 27th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A meeting was called on the 24th of
November, for the purpose of organizing a
Relief Society; Bishop Dunford and Pre-
siding Elder Lewis and other Elders were
present. The following officers were cho-
sen.
	Mary Ann Kent, President.
	Mary James,			} Counselors.
	Elizabeth Williams,	}
	Ann Dishan, Treasurer.
	Two Secretaries and six teachers have
also been chosen. Bishop Dunford gave us
some excellent counsel and spoke of the
evil of tale-bearing, and bade us be faith-
ful and true to all our callings. Elder Lewis
and Counselor Rees have since met with us,
and given us some excellent counsel with
regard to her duties.
	We are a small branch, but by exertion
and faithfulness we shall, we trust, increase
in numbers and good works. We intend to
read your paper in our meetings; I receive
mine from the Malad Branch, but hope soon
to subscribe for more and receive them
here.
	May God bless you and every faithful
saint.
					MARY ANN KENT.


BLOOMING.—A little daughter had watch-
ed with interest the unfolding of flowers
in a garden, seeing a rose-blossom change
from a bud to a full-blown rose in a short
time. One day she saw a turkey-rooster
suddenly expand his tail into a fan, in the
act of strutting, when she ran to her moth-
er and exclaimed: "Oh, mother, I have
just seen a turkey bloom out."


124		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms; One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JAN. 15, 1878.


[Column 1]

[Column 1]

A HIGHER EDUCATION.

	The cultivation of the human mind to its
fullest extent is one of the subjects upon which
very much is being said and written. Colleges
and institutions of learning are being estab-
lished on all sorts of improved plans and meth-
ods, designed to produce the best results.
Young ladies and gentlemen graduate with a
complete knowledge of various sciences and
languages, to say nothing of superior accom-
plishments, and are launched into society to
fill the higher places and positions among the
"elite" of the land. This is an improvement
certainly, upon the time when ordinarily peo-
ple were only taught the simple rudiments of
their own language, without any knowledge of
the history of countries or their geographical
boundaries; but after all, is there not in many
instances a neglect of that cultivation of the
heart which gives to its possessor a generosity
and kindliness of feeling, and draws out the
Godlike affections that make us feel for one
another's woe, and overlook in each other de-
fects of nature and of character. Are men and
women not apt to be too much engrossed with
one idea and lose sight of others of equal, or
more importance? Some eminent persons dis-
tinguished for their learning and ability have
become so enraptured with the beauty of
knowledge that they become totally oblivious
to the duties and obligations of social life.
	Diogones, the great scholar of his day, the
great philosopher, not only ignored all the laws
of living properly, but despised them. Men
called him a cynic, he was certainly an ex-
tremist; but there is assuredly danger of the
mind's exclusive cultivation of neglecting
the superior attractions of the heart and the
affections which help to make up the sum of
human happiness for the cultivation—the in-
tellect, which however noble it may be when
properly balanced, will be of comparatively
little value when weighed against the heart
and affections which are the very highest
source of happiness next to the comforts of re-
ligion. It is true that in many instances the
mind is cultivated at the expense of the heart.
The little child is sent away to school, to learn
grammar, arithmetic etc., and too often it is
the case that the fond, proud mother in encour-
aging him to excel in all that will qualify him
for position forgets to enjoin upon him the cul-
tivation of the heart.
	The mothers have this part of the education
of the young mostly in their own hands; and
if they would have their sons grow up with
that affection in their natures, which partakes
of the elements of tenderness and charity, of
peace and good-will towards all mankind, then
they must cultivate these sentiments in those
under their influence. The Savior in all His
teachings and instructions sought to instill the

[Column 2]

principle of love for the human family.  The
Golden Rule is a good illustration of the neces-
sary cultivation of love, "To do unto others
even as ye would they should do unto you."
If this injuction is carried out in the lives of 
individuals then is it not essential to cultivate
those peculiar gifts and graces which make
men and women susceptible of all the finer
feelings, qualified or designated as the noblest
attributes of humanity; and though one may
possess all knowledge the world can bestow,
and however practical he or she may be, yet
lacking the higher and holier attributes of 
character, such an one can never participate
in that full and complete enjoyment which
has its source and fountain within the human
heart.  Is the charity of which St. Paul
speaks, the giving of alms?  No! Does he not 
say "And though I bestow all my goods to feed
the poor, and though I give my body to be
burned, and have not charity it profiteth me
nothing.
	There is a loving, tender influence which is
more understood than expressed, yet is percep-
tible in gentleness of manner, harmony of
voice, and a mild and soothing demeanor,
which seems inherent and natural in some per-
sons, and is most charming in a companion, or
associate.  It would be better conveyed to the 
mind of the reader by the word womanliness but
is sometimes imparted to sons as well as daugh-
ters, and although the word effeminancy in
men is almost offensive yet gentleness and
deference are highly commendable.  These at-
tributes can only exist in reality with true no-
bility of character, though they are sometimes
feigned.  Men in this age are too much afraid
of being classed as womanly and assume an
arrogance that ill becomes them, lest they
should fail in dignity or superiority.  Many
men seem to fear being demonstrative, and
thus they stifle those finer feelings and affec-
tions that give such a charm to home-life, to
the daily intercourse of those who dwell un-
der one roof, who surround one fireside.  What
a p[-]culiar fascination there is in the exchange
of tender and gentle expressions, when they
flow from the heart; when one feels it is not
only the lips that speak but the heart that
prompts.  Solomon said "with all thy getting
get understanding;" and when the time comes
if it ever does, that men and women arrive at
a better understanding of how to promote each
other's happiness, how to dwell together in
love, then peace will reign, where now dis-
cord and confusion predominate.  When men
and women have learned the art of cultivating
the affections, the divinest attributes, then will
they have arrived at one method of a higher
education.
	E. B. WELLS.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	ON SUNDAY a fire broke out in the second
story of the building occupied by Mr. Camer-
on, called the New York Store, on the west
side of Main Street. The roof and upper
rooms of that and the adjoining store were
badly burned.

	"THE AMATEUR" published in Ogden by the
Y. M. M. I. A., has entered upon the third
month, and pursuant to their plan for improve-
ment it has now another editor, Austin C.
Brown. This little volume contains some good
articles from the pen of its members and indi-
cates the progress which is steadily being
made by those who are associated together in
these organizations for improvement.

	MISS MAYTIE Van will take pupils in lace-
work. She understands making several pat-
terns of the Smyrna lace and will teach six

[Column 2]
patterns to pupils finding their own materials
for $5,00. The number of lessons will depend
upon the aptitude and ingenuity of the learn-
er. This is a very useful branch of home in-
dustry and ladies desirous of making their own
laces would do well to take advantage of this
opportunity for learning. Residence on 4th
South Street between East and West Temple
Streets.

	THE DESERET University is at the present
time in a prosperous condition. This academy
of science which has been many years estab-
lished, has at the present 137 pupils enrolled.
Dr. John R. Park is President, and Professors
Toronto and Kingsbury his assistants. All the
higher English branches are taught at this in-
stitution, also Latin and Greek. Young peo-
ple wishing to become teachers should avail
themselves of the opportunity of studying un-
der Prof. Park, the Theory and Practice of
Teaching, as his ideas and suggestions on the
subject are the result of long years of experi-
ence as a practical educator.

		11th WARD, S. L. CITY Jan. 3rd, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We forward for publication, the following re-
port of a meeting held in the 11th Ward
school house, of the Relief Society which
opened with the usual exercises of singing and
prayer. The minutes of the previous meeting
read and accepted. The yearly report read as
follows: Donations received $273,90, Disburse-
ments, 261,42, Wheat on hand, twenty-five
bushels, Flour, seven hundred lbs., Money, $13,
15.
			MRS. M. MCRAE, President,
			M. BIDGOOD, Secretary,
	[Minutes of this meeting will appear in our
next issue.]

	WE HAVE received a copy of the book recent-
ly published in this city containing the names
of all persons indebted to the Perpetual Em-
igration Fund from 1850, the time of its com-
mencement, up to the close of emigration for
1877. There are over 19,000 names published
in the pamphlet of which we speak, and the
indebtedness amoun[-]s to over a million of dol-
lars. The Latter day Saints know upon what
basis this P. E. Fund stands, and that every
person who is brought here by that Fund is ex-
pected to pay as soon as they conveniently can,
in order that others who are anxious to come
may have the privilege of being gathered out
from Babylon. People are too apt to neglect
their duties in these matters, and to postpone
from time to time and finally forget their ob-
ligations. The publication of this book will be
a gentle reminder to many, no doubt, who will
now settle immediately, or as soon as their cir-
cumstances will permit them to do so.

					S. L. CITY, Jan., 1858.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Perhaps it is interesting for you to know how
the Young Ladies Retrenchment Association
of the 17th Ward is progressing. At the re-
quest of Sup't. M. E. Kimball a Special Meet-
ing convened at the residence of Mrs. Julia
Howe, on the evening of the 9th inst., where a
few, mostly officers, met. Sister M. E. Kim-
ball then stated the object of the meeting; a
committee was then formed to present the
thirty yards of carpet which they had made
for the benefit of the Temple of this City, and
all present felt grateful for the privilege of con-
tributing that much for so good a cause. Sis-
ter Kimball and Sister Howe made some con-
gratulatory remarks upon what we had accom-
plished, and gave some wise counsel for our fu-
ture conduct, after which they bid adieu to the
Juvenile Retrenchment Society—expecting


[Column 1]
one organized on a larger and improved plan
to take its place.  A pair of beautiful vases
were then presented to Assistant Superintend-
ent Howe, at whose house we have convened
so often for more than two years.  Dismissed
in the usual manner.
	EMMA F. BROWN, Pres't.
	EDITH SMITH, Sec'y.
	The Annual Meeting of the Young Ladies'
Society of the Tenth Ward was held on Thurs-
day Jan. 12, in the Ward Meeting House.  A
goodly number of ladies were present.  The
house was very beautifully and artistically
decorated with festoons and bouquets of ever-
greens and artificial flowers, made by the
young girls of the Wad, which gave a most
pleasing appearance to the hall.  Mrs. M. J.
Pierce presided.  Mrs. Zina D. Young, Mrs.
M. I. Horne, Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. E. How-
ard, Mrs. E. A. Whitney, and Mrs. E. B. Wells,
each addressed the meeting.  The subjects were
duties of women, the necessity of being self-
sustaining, home-manufactures, home litera-
ture, and the promotion of all things which
are a help to the Latter-day work.  These sub-
jects and the minuti[-]e which make up the sum
of the whole matter, were spoken upon by the
sisters earnestly, and in the spirit of the Gos-
pel.  The sisters who visit from time to time,
the various wards and settlements in the inter-
est of the Relief Society and Mutual Improve-
ment Associations, well deserve the appellation
of home missionaries for they are exerting a
powerful influence for good in the midst of
Zion.
	THE TWENTY-THIRD session of the Territor-
ial Legislature Assembly convened in the City
Hall, Nov. Jan. 14, at 2 o'clock and were duly
organized in both Houses.  President of Coun
cil, Hon. Lorenzo Snow:  House of Representa
tives, Hon. Orson Pratt, Speaker.  Secretary
L. P. Luckey administered the customary oath
to members and officers.  Chaplain for the
House Elder Helaman Pratt.  Two young la-
dies are employed as clerks in the House, Miss
Joan M. Campbell and Miss Dora Pratt.  All
the counties of Utah are represented except
Tooele, which has no representatives as yet.  A
Committee of both Houses waited upon the
Governor of Utah to inform His Excellency
the Assembly was organized.  This Committee
reported, the Governor would communicate
with the House, Tuesday at 2 o'clock.  Some
special business relating to suitable materials
for use of the members during the session,
newspaper, stamps, etc., also public printing
mail matter, etc. was transacted; minute
were read and after these and other prelimi-
nary arrangements, the Assembly adjourned
until Tuesday, 1 o'clock p. m.
	DESERET SILK ASSOCIATION.—The Deseret
Silk Association met in the Fireman's Hall,
Jan. 11th, Mrs. Zina D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young said she was very well satisfied
with what had been done.
	Father Graves said he had met with good
success in his travels. The meetings he held
were well attended. Prospects for the future
were encouraging.
	Mr. A. C. Pyper said we had more skill than
we had leaves to feed the worms.  He urged
the people to plant out mulberry trees; also
showed the necessity of co-operating, in order
to make the work lighter and enable learners
to get a better knowledge of how to manipulate
the worm to better advantage.  He advised
those planting out trees to put them as near
as possible to the cocoonery and avoid a great
amount of extra labor.  The ladies in the
Twelfth Ward were going to plant out two

[Column 2]
thousand trees behind the school-house next
season.
	There being no business, a motion was made
to adjourn for one week, then to effect a per-
manent organization, to which meeting all in-
terested in silk raising are cordially invited,
more especially in Salt Lake County.
	R. SIMPSON, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
				DISCOURSE
					BY
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG
				DELIVERED
		In the Tabernacle, Ogden.

				[CONTINUED.]

	Now I want to guide and direct to our bene-
fit. I want these my sisters to take into con-
sideration what we can do with regard to sus-
taining ourselves. Say you, "Let us go to work
and lay the foundation of it." In a great many
places there is a foundation of it laid out,
which is very good. Now, I want you to go to
work and say, we will make all our head dress-
es, we will make all the hats the men need to
wear; we have plenty straw and materials, we
will do this. "Now you have an object, Broth-
er Brigham." Yes, I have, more than one ob-
ject; and the great object is to show our Heav-
enly Father that we have come out from Baby-
lon, and are capable of taking care of our-
selves. When we come to finances, I want the
people to be rich instead of poor. The course
we are now taking is beggaring the people—
running into debt for this folly and that folly,
and for everything that they can see. Why,
let the merchant come and bring the follies of
Babylon, we want them immediately. "Why,
yes, we can make all the straw hats, if you
will take them." I will tell you what else I
want, I want the sisters to say to themselves,
and then to their daughters, sisters and friends,
"We will wear that which we will make, or
we will wear nothing; we will make what we
wear on our heads; we will make our own hats
and bonnets." Now men, will you patronize
this? "Yes." Then get our husbands to say,
"we will not buy one of the hats from these
stores, if they bring them by the car l[-]ad."
Well, there will be a great deal saved to this
Stake of Zion; probably more than twenty
thousand dollars. Then say to your husbands,
"now go and build a tannery, that the hides
that come off our beef cattle can be made into
leather." And then, say to your husbands, "I
want you to understand that I am perfectly, ab-
solutely opposed to your course of life, unless
you make some leather." Then, sisters go to
work and make up this leather, the labor is in
the shade, and a great deal of this work can be
done by machinery; but it can be done by
hand. We have one sister in Salt Lake City,
who started twenty-three years ago boot and
shoe making; she has made herself a little for-
tnne; she has plenty to live on; she has worked
with her own hands until she has accumula-
ted property enough to sustain her. My young
sisters instead of sitting continually at the
piano and getting the consumption, take hold
and build up Zion. The first thing is to do
something for yourselves, and learn to labor;
and when one thing is done, take up another
item, and con[-]inue until we manufacture
everything that we need here.
	I will say to those who are raising sheep,
do not send your wool away. "Why, it will
be said, "a fool and his money are soon part-
ed." Save your wool and send it to the factory.
If we want a little cotton cloth, we can raise it
in the southern country; and we can raise

[Column 2]
some here, as well as in some other places. We
can raise about two gatherings. In the best of
the States they will gather from three to four.
We can raise our cotton in the south, and save
our wool here. Go to and save your wheat.
Tell the people of this Stake of Zion not to sell
their grain. "We are in debt," says one.
What brought you in debt? "Oh, I wanted a
thresher and a mowing machine." Where do
you live? How much grass have you to cut?
"One hundred and fifty acres." How many
mowing machines have you got? "Only eight."
Buy another and another machine, and cloth
from the stores that is nothing in the world
but shoddy, with but enough of wool to hold it
together—buy these, and buy more than you
can pay for. Go into debt and pauperize the
whole community, instead of building up Zion.
I want you to stop. When we are in a posi-
tion to build up ourselves, we are building up
Zion. Let us sustain ourselves.


TO THE PUBLIC.

	CANCER: I feel it my duty for the sake of
humanity, to say to all who may be troubled
with this dreadful disease, that my wife was
severely afficted with cancer under the right
arm, extending towards the brea[-]t and down
the side. I was recommended by several par-
ties who knew of the successful treatment of
cancer by Phineas H. Young. I accordingly
submitted the case to him, and after forty-
seven successive days of his treatment she is
quite free from all cancerous affections.
	I am confident that no case of this kind was
ever treated with more skill, or came to a
more favorable issue than this.
		JOHN SEARS.
	11th Ward, Salt Lake City.
	Witnesses: Bishop A. McRae, Mark Barnes,
Charles Edwards.


R. S. REPORT.

	ST. GEORGE, UTAH, Nov. 28th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Since the organization of our Second
Ward Young Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association, we have regularly held our
meetings. Latterly, persuant to our Bish-
op’s suggestion we have also held joint
meetings with the Young Men’s Mutual
improvement Association of the Second
St. George Ward.  At these joint meetings
we have addresses and lectures deliverd
by our seniors.  We have now determined
upon the publication of a Monthly Maga-
zine in manuscript to contain original es-
says and articles from the Young Men’s and
Young Ladies’ Associations.  Prior to the
establishment of the joint meetings we had
published and successfully carried on a
Monthly Magazine in our Association, the
contributions being solely from the pens
of the sisters who were members; now,
however, we expect to see an enlargement
of, and a greater variety of articles in the
joint Magizine, the first number of which
is to be read at the joint meeting next Tues-
day, the 14th of December.  We in unison
with the daughters of Zion, take sincere
pleasure in reading the EXPONENT and
gratefully acknowledge the benefit we de-
rive from reading its pages.  May success
attend its efforts to advance the cause of
righteousness, is the desire of your sister,
		LILLIE BLEAK, Ass't Secrtary.


A HOME THRUST.—Doctor: "Now, tell
me, colonel, how do you feel when you've
killed a man?"  Colonel: "Oh, very well,
thank you, doctor; how do you?"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE OLD AND NEW YEAR.

	Sitting alone, on this  last night of
the old year, my cogitations are somewhat
peculiar; my mind reverts back to many
events of the past year, and also in my past
life, from my earliest recollections to the
present time.  It is a familiar saying, that
coming events cast their shadows before;"
and to my mind it is no less true that past
events cast their shadows behind; for cer-
tainly if we do a mean action, it looms up
before us from the dim, misty past with
great prominence, casting a shadow of gloom
over our feelings, and putting a damper
upon us, at times when it would seem we
should feel most cheerful and light-hearted.
	Having been taught from childhood to
look upon the advent of a new year as the
turning over of a new leaf in the book of
life, in which I should profit by my past
experience, and strive to improve, my re-
flections are, consequently, of a somewhat
serious nature.
	Though we all have our peculiarities, and
are, constituted differently in many respects,
and all differ more or less from each other
in experience: still I believe that our med-
itations in their general outlines, at certain
times resemble each other, to a greater or
less extent, though they may vary greatly
in the little minutiae and details.  We
glance back over the past year and try to
sum up our lives and conduct, and find out
how our accounts stand, and, if the balance
is in our favor, we feel a degree of satisfac-
tion which money cannot buy; but, if the
contrary is the case, we are apt to feel that
our time is misspent, and some, whose dis-
positions are not the most hopeful, feel to
despond; this we should not do, but re-
member- it is never too late to improve;
thus we should take courage, aud feel a de-
termination to more than make up for our
past deficiencies before the next time of
settlement.  Our maxim should be "never
fail" in anything which we undertake that
is right and consistent.  The grand secret
of the success of many people is perseve-
rance; a strong, decisive, indomitable will
can accomplish much, especially if the per-
son possessing these qualities will allow
herself to be directed by the Spirit of God.
We learn by the teachings which we re-
ceive, that there is "a book of remem-
brance" kept, in which is recorded our ac-
tions, both good and bad, while we sojourn
here in the flesh, and out of this book shall
we be judged; and this should be an incen-
tive to us to do right, though it is certainly
not the only one, for the path of duty and
rectitude leads to happiness; and, more-
over, we cannot enjoy true happiness unless
we do live lives of honor and virtue.
	Life is but short at best, and filled up
with care and sorrow, pain and sickness, for
the most part, interspersed with here and
there a streak of brightness, a ray of sun-
shine, with a beacon of light in the far,
dim distance.  What is this beacon of 
light?  It is the hope of a glorious future;
something which we can scarcly under-
stand, or form any true conception of, but
which serves to encourage us on in the
journey of life.  And what are these bright
spots in our existence, which shine forth
with such glorious brillancy, illuminating
the darkness surrounding it, as would a
streak of lightning on a dark night?  They
are the kind words and actions given and
received, and it is said in the Scriptures,
"It is more blessed to give than to receive,"
and it certainly has a blessing attending it,
which, when once in possession of we could
not be induced to part with.  A kind word
cheers the lonely heart, and gives us cour-
age to bear up under the most trying cir-
cumstances, and lives in the memory for-
ever.  Then is it not best for us to do what
little good we can while life lasts, that we
may at least have the satisfaction of know-
ing that we have not entirely wasted our
time and the talents with which God has
endowed us.  Are there any of us but has
an ambition to be able to feel assured that
when we shall be called to leave this stage
of action, be the time long  or short, we shall
be missed by some one, that there shall be
some one in the wide world who can speak
a good word for us?
	If we have anything against another,
now is the time to have it righted, and 
start with a clean sheet, so that when we
shall stand, as it were on the eve of another
year, as we do to night, we may be able to
look back with still greater satisfaction than
we can at the present time, that there may
fall to our lot more of joy, and less of sor-
row, and that we may at last be greeted
with that welcome plaudit, "Well done
thou good and faithful one, enter into rest,"
is my desire.				KATE.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	OXFORD, Jan. 7th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Like the widow mentioned in the New
Testament, I wish to cast in my mite with
my sisters. Although living away out here
in an almost isolated place, so far North
that our beloved sisters did not reach us
when on their recent Northern visit, yet
we are trying to blend our works with those
who labor for the cause of Zion. We have
on hand sixty bushels of wheat, and some
means to procure more, but there seems to
be no surplus grain here, as the wheat
turned out so light last fall. The sisters
are liberal in their labors and donations,
etc.; we labor under quite a disadvantage,
as many are living out on their farms. On
the first Thursday in this month at our
monthly meeting, the article in the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT, No 14, of the report of
the First Annual Grain Meeting, held in
the Council House, S. L. City, Nov, 17, was
read and listened to with much interest.
The instructions there given by our beloved
Sister Eliza R. Snow and others, especially
the brethren, enlivens our energies in the
wonderful work in which we are engaged.
Surely, as an ancient prophet once said, it
is "a marvellous work and a wonder." A
few days since we had a visit from a rela-
tive who resides in Oregon, formerly from
Canada. He soon began to ask questions,
and said to me, "I suppose you are Mor-
mons?"
	Answer—"Yes, we are what is termed
Mormons."
	Question—"Do you believe Mormonism
as it used to be taught in the beginning?"
	Answer—"Certainly we do."
	Questiou—"Well why is it that so many
apostatize from the Mormon faith?"
	Answer—"Because the Gospel is like the
net cast into the sea—it gathers the bad
and the good." I then referred him to the
parable of the sower of the seed.
	Question—Well, do the Mormons work
miracles?"
	Answer—"The Almighty Father works
miracles with this people; miracles are
wrought by the power of His Priesthood
only."
	"If," said he, "I should ever see a mira-
cle wrought, I could never turn from it and
apostatize." I then said, "First trace the
history of this church from the beginning
to the present time—its travels, persecu-
tions, being robbed and driven, and as


exiles cast among the wild savages of the
Rocky Mountains, &c., is it not all a mira-
cle that you find us as we are to-day (hav-
ing been brought out of so much distress,
as is spoken of in the hundred and seventh
Psalm)?" "Yes, that is very true," was
the reply.
	After reading and talking with Brother
Boice three days und three nights, he asked
for some church books, which we gave him,
and said he should go home, dispose of his
property, and bring his family out in the
spring. He went away rejoicing that he
had been so happily disappointed.
	I often think how thankful I ought to be
that I have life and blessings with the Lat-
ter-day Saints. When we realize this it
elevates our spirit, and enables us to sur-
mount our trials. It is then that I can say
to myself. "Do what is right, let the conse-
quence follow; God will protect you do
what is right."
	As ever, your sister in the cause of Zion,
						M. A. BOICE.


ADDRESS OF THE CITIZENS' SUF-
	FRAGE ASSOCIATION, PHILADEL-
	PHIA, PRESENTED TO MRS. RUTH-
	ERFORD B. HAYES.

	To Mrs. Hayes—Respected Madam : The
members of the Citizen's Suf[-]rage Associa-
tion of Philadelphia desire to express the
pleasure they have in seeing your name
coupled with that of the revered President's
in the introduction of social and other re-
forms tending to moral improvement and
elevation. They believe no warmer heart
or more earnest and active mind can be
found among the male advisers of your re-
spected husband than your own; and they
can conceive of no good reason why this
spiritual and moral worth should not be
publicly recognized and utilized for the na-
tion's good.
	To those honored with a nation's trust
great responsibilities and duties attach, and
great opportunities as well, for advancing
human rights and correcting human wrongs.
In this light they respectfully ask your fav-
vorable attention to the subject of the right
of women to a voice in the laws which gov-
ern them and their property, and to which
they are held amenable, to the end that
your word and influence, though unofficial,
may prove, as frequently happens, that the
"power behind the throne is greater than
the throne itself."
	Women are the only citizens wholly un-
represented in this government, the only
class not guilty of crime that is taxed with-
out representation, tried without a jury of
their peers, governed without their consent;
and yet even the opponents of woman suf-
frage must allow that in this class are many
of the most intelligent, virtuous and law-
abiding citizens, possessing all the requisite
qualifications of voters. This state of
things, you will admit, is a total denial of
the principles upon which this govern-
ment is based, and which, if not remedied,
must inevitably lead to its overthrow. It
cannot be supposed that "men" in the Dec-
laration of Independence stands for one
sex only and not for human beings, or that
the "governed," whose consent is the only
source of just power, means that half who
assume the position of governors.
	This contradiction between practice and
principle cannot be explained away, and,
far from being expedient, it is an unquali-
fied evil, perverting and demoralizing to
both men and women, and forms an insup-
erable obstacle to vital improvement in the
character or social condition of the country.
The claim of custom is on the unjust side


[Column 1]
﻿while reason, humanity and justice are on
the other.  There ought to be valid reasons
why that which is most prized by one class
of human beings as the ground of their
peculiar civilization equality of rights,
should be denied to another class that stand
in precisely the same relation to the gov-
ernment, with the same interests and
needs.
	Men cannot have keener sympathies or
greater practical activity for the common
welfare than the wives, mothers and sisters
of men; and the power to enforce social re-
forms, which by common consent are as-
signed to woman’s sphere can only be found
in the ballot. Can one see it to be just or
right that a man owning a certain amount
of property should have a vote in respect
to that property, while a woman owning
the same amount, and perhaps many times
more, should have no vote? The women
of Massachusetts pay more than one-tenth
of the whole tax on property in the State,
and yet have no power to decide the use
and distribution of a single dollar of it.
The best means for self-protection and de-
fence is the ballot; and reason and con-
science would say, if but one class can have
it, it should be granted to the weaker, rath-
er than to the muscularly stronger.
	Not the noblest and most generous of
men can feel as a woman must for the mis-
ery of an ill-used wife, the anguish of a
mother deprived of her children. Woman’s
sympathies in these things must be deeper
and more intense than the best man can
feel, and the suffrage is hers by Divine
natural right to help correct this vicious in-
difference of men, and bring the power of
legislation to the rescue of the weakest and
most neglected of mankind, who are now
thrown upon brute force as their champion
when their personal rights are invaded, or
left to dishonorable submission.  Apart
from the fact that we want the feminine or
mother element recognized in the functions
of government, there is to-day pressing
upon the attention of the people a great in-
dustrial problem which deeply concerns
thousands, may, millions of working-women
of the nation.  In this now momentous
question they deem it essential that these
women should have a peaceful and poten-
tial voice.
	A social revolution is threatening the
land. Ignore in this contest, the voice of
women, generally for peace, until the hour
of desperation, and you have left in the
problem man’s ferocity alone.  Women now 
invoke your aid to place them in that posi-
tion of political and social honor wherein
their influence may be most successfully
exercised.  Especially in the department
of education, now occupying so large a
share of public attention, do they ask you
to lend your aid to give women that politi-
cal status, whereby they shall not only be-
come the teachers of children, but, still
more important, where they shall aid in di-
recting and controlling the course of edu-
cation as well.  They cannot possibly do
this while debarred from those political
rights, by the exercise of which the con-
trol of our great public school system is
now lodged with men, who, however wise
and learned in scholastic knowledge, are
deficient in a knowledge of the wants, ca-
pacities and needs of children—boys as
well as girls. England’s action in this mat-
ter is well worthy our imitation.
	The home is the safeguard of the nation,
and that force in the family which harmon-
izes, brings into subjection the coarser and
rougher passions; which warms and softens
the heart, drawing each member into for-

[Column 2]
getfulness of self and corresponding
thoughtfulness of others, is the element
most wanting in the exercise of political
functions—civil, legislative and judicial.
This force, you will allow, resides domi-
nantly in the mind and heart of woman—
leading to the activity which requires pa-
tience and perseverance, rather than
strength of muscle.  The advocates for the
equality of rights before the law neither
ask nor desire special advantages or excep-
tional legislation for women.  They only
claim that, standing in precisely the same
relation to the state that men do, the same
powers and rights should be accorded them.
It Is only rational that, in a population con-
sisting of both sexes, the united agency of
both should be more efficient than of one
sex alone.
	In all the scenes of life, circumstances
are ever arising which demand a peculiar
cognizan[--] that the sympathy and judg-
ment of sex can only supply.
	The ballot, then, being the means of self-
government, and in a direct line with na-
tural enlightenment, prosperity, justice and
goodness, they feel free, dear madam, to
ask your influence with the wives, mothers,
and sisters who are making every laudable
effort to share in this system of self-gov-
ernment by force of their own intelligence
and elevation of character.
	That this administration, so earnest to
establish justice and equality between the
North and South, may not close without
wise and rational consideration of practical
means to speedily bring about this equit-
able and highly conservative condition;
wherein a true republic can exist upon the
earth, fulfilling the grand idea struggled 
for in the ages and proclaimed by the fathers
whom we honor, is the sincere and earnest
prayer of the undersigned.
	For and in behalf of the Citizens’ Suf-
frage Association of Philadelphia, and of
our countrywomen and countrymen who
value the rights and privileges of free gov-
ernment.
	CAROLINE H. SPEAR,
	MARY BYRNES,		Committe.
	JOHN M. SPEARE,
To Mrs. Hayes, Executive Mansion, Wash-
	ington, D. C.
	Lucretia Mott,			Susanna M. Curby,
	Sarah Pugh,			Emma A. Rohdes,
	Ellen Mellon,			Lavinia J. Palmer,
	Jane E. Sobers,		Clara Blodget.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

EXTRACTS.

MARY CLEMMER'S ARTICLE IN THE NEW
YORK "INDEPENDENT."

	"Woman's Day" in the Senate. The an-
nouncement in the journals was made with
dignity and without comment. In the Sen-
ate the petitions were presented without
dignity, and with a few exceptions, with
comments which reflected deep discredit
on those who uttered them. It is a disgrace
to the United States Senate which cannot
be wiped out, that it will not receive a pe-
tition coming from thousands of honorable
women in the land without laughter, ridi-
cule, and sneers. No matter what the per-
sonal opinion of a Senator may be, the hon-
est petition of any citizen, black or white,
man or woman, is entitled by that citizen
ship to his "respectful consideration." At
least, he should be gentleman enough and
have self-respect enough, if he have ever so
little for the petitioner, to present her peti-
tion with the manner and in the tone of a
gentleman. If we needed any added proof
to the already too evident fact that, as an

[Column 2]

aggregate, the Congress of the American
people does not consist of gentlemen, we
have it in their tones, words, and manners
when they present a woman's petition.
Judging by these, you must believe that
nothing on earth is quite so "funny" as that
a tax-paying citizen—often the widowed
head of a family, an intelligent, educated,
thoughtful being—should ask that she have
some voice in the laws that govern her;
that she should, at least, be free to give
that "consent of the governed" on which
even the man-framed Constitution declared
all just government rests, which is not denied
the lowest creature that crawls, if so be he
happens to crawl in the shape of a man.
A woman of great nature could afford to
pity the men, Senators of the United States,
who that day made themselves look so small.
Had she not been sure that, as a creature of
God, she was greater than they, she might
well have bowed her head in humiliation
and covered herself with sackcloth and ashes
that more than ten thousand women, her
peers, have come to sue at such a court as
that. Is the caste of sex so all-pervading, so
omnipresent, that a man cannot read even
the petition of a woman without at once
dissolving into sneering laughter and inane
ridicule?
	In autocratic Russia to-day a woman sits
regent on the imperial throne, while her
husband and her four sons, beyond the
Danube, fight the battles of their religion
and their race. The third volume of the
"Life of the Prince Consort," just issued in
London, refutes forever a favorite assertion
of men that the Queen of England is but a
puppet in the government of her vast realm.
In pouring light upon the general manage-
ment of public business in England, it
shows us in unerring outline the Queen,
from the beginning of her reign to this day,
for forty years, attending personally with
the minutest attention to the routine busi-
ness of departments, "carefully studying
and weighing every subject, small or great,
which affects in the slightest the well-being
of her people." Let the women of the
world arise and bless her, that she, a wo-
man pre-eminent in station, has for forty
years proved herself equal to her opportuni-
ty. Not only wife, mother, woman among
the best, but "every inch a queen."	*	*
	Forty Senators presented petitions, signed
by thousands of men and women, asking
for a constitutional amendment enfranchis-
ing women. A few read the petitions as
they would any other, with dignity and
without comment; but the majority seemed
intensely conscious of holding something
unutterably funny in their hands. They
appeared to consider it a huge joke. The
entire Senate presented the appearance of a
laughing school practicing side-splitting
and ear extended grins. Mr. Wadleigh
leaned back in his chair and shook with
laughter, after portraying to his next neigh-
bor, Pinkney Whyte, of Maryland, the ap-
parition of Pinkney's landlady descending
upon the polls like a wolf on the fold, to
annihilate Pinkney's election—an avenging
landlady, of terrible repute for executive
temper, who, it is declared, imprisoned
Pinkney in his own parlor, and barricaded
another descendant of a signer of the De-
claration of Independence, Hiester Clymer,
till, to save him from starvation, food was
lifted to him from the street on poles. The
heir of the Pinkneys leaned back in his
senatorial chair and quaked at this vision
of the coming woman, while Wadleigh
laughed and laughed at the mental havoc
he had created. Oglesby, erst warrior of 
Illinois, spake with such endearing gallan-
try of his "dear constituents," whom he


did all his wit could do to make ridiculous
till the whole Senate laughed, and even
Roscoe Conkling, who never condescends
to sneer at a woman in public, turned and
listened and smiled his most sardonic smile.
Then Thurman blew his loudest regulation
blast—sure portent of approaching battle—
and rose and moved that the petitions be
referred to the Committee on Public Lands,
of which Oglesby is chairman. At this propo-
sition—intended to be equally humorous and
contemptuous—the whole Senate laughed
aloud. There was one Senator, man enough
and gentleman enough to lift the petition
from this insulting proposition. It was Sena-
tor Sargent, of California, the husband of the
woman who, though a Senator's wife, is
brave enough to be the treasurer of the Wo-
man's National Suffrage Association. He
turned to Mr. Thurman and demanded for
the petition of more than ten thousand wo-
men, at least the courtesy that would be giv-
en to any other petition. Whereupon Thur-
man, with a flippancy of which I would not
have believed him capable, if I had not seen
it, blew his nose anew, and declared that he
"only wished the petition referred to the
Committee on Public Lands that the wo-
men might have two strings to their bow!"
Then the craven Senate declared "the mo-
tion," which was only an insult, carried.
Let it be recorded of the Senate of the Uni
ted States of the forty-fifth Congress, that
the one petition which it received as a pre-
posterous joke, and treated with utter con-
tempt and outrage was the petition of tens
of thousands of the mothers, daughters, and
wives of the land; that the one petition
which they received and dropped with ut-
ter indifference was the petition against in-
temperance—the petition that seeks to
lighten the heavy load of degradation, mis-
ery, and murder that lies upen the land
and most heavily upon the hearts, the lives,
the homes of women.	*	*


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


SCIENTIFIC NOTES.

THE nebular hypothesis, one of the grand-
est conceptions of the human mind, has be-
gun to be questioned by eminent astrono-
mers.  Facts, which at first were thought
to be favorable to it, now seem to many to
be fatal to it.  Marked exceptions have
been found to the rule that the movement
of all of the bodies of the solar system is
in the same direction round the sun.  The
satellites of Jupiter, for instance, is retro-
grade.  Again, the satellite of Mars nearest
the planet has a much more rapid motion
than Mars itself—a fact which, on the nebu-
lar hypothesis, would be impossible.  Lastly,
the new "star" in Cygnas, months ago was
exceedingly bright, but now is very dim
and has all the appearance of a nebula; but
on this nebular hypothesis the course should
have been exactly the reverse.  It should
have developed from a nebula to a star.
However, it is too soon to weep or rejoice--
as one may be disposed--over the supposed
collapse of this theory.  It has passed
through grave dangers and apparent contra-
dictions before this, and a fuller acquaint-
ance with the phenomena which now puz-
zle or perplex astronomers may add strength
to the theory.—Graphic, Oct. 1877.


[Column 1]
		GENEALOGICAL!
LATTER-DAY SAINTS who come from the States of
	New England, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania
or Delaware, or whose ancestors were native of either
of those States, who desire to obtain their Genealogies,
could not do better than to employ B. F. Cummings, Jr.,
who proposes to go [-]ast for that purpose during the
present Winter. Parties interested should send for Cir-
cular, giving terms and full instructions.
		Addr[-]ss,
						B. F. CUMMINGS, JR.,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.


[Column 2]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

	The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

	[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

		NEW FALL STOOK.

	F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

	THE LADIES
		Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
					IN THE
		OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descriptions.
			MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

		ROWE'S
			CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
	Big Boot, Main Street.

	No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

		HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
	CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
	READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
			AT
TEASDEL'S.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
			FOR ALL KINDS OF
	Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
		CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
	Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
			MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

	Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND RESIDENCE in 12th Ward on
2d South St., between 5th and 6th East Sts.,
six blocks East of Post Office.

[Column 3]
	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

	NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
	DRY GOODS,
					IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
	Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
