Vol. 6.  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. SEPTEMBER 15, 1877.  No. 8.﻿


LINES SUNG AT THE FUNERAL, OF 
PREST. BRIGHAM YOUNG.

COMPOSED FOR THE OCCASION BY CHARLES
W. PENROSE.
MUSIC BY PROF. GEORGE CARELESS.

	Death gathers up thick clouds of gloom
	And wounds the soul with anguish deep.
	Gaunt sorrow sits upon the tomb,
	And round the grave dense shadows creep.

	But faith beams down from God's fair skies
	And bids the clouds and shades begone.
	We gaze with brightened, tear-dryed eyes
	And lo there stands the Holy One!

	"The Resurrection and the Life"	What hope and joy that title brings!
	Death's but a myth with horrors rife,
	And flees before the King of Kings.

	Then shall we mourn and weep to-day
	Because out Cheif has gone to rest?
	He slumbers not in that cold clay,
	He lives and moves among the blest.

	We lose a leading Master Mind,
	But spirit hosts behind the vail
	New strength and added wisdom find,
	To make our mutual work prevail.

	Hosannas greet his entrance there,
	And JOSEPH waits with words of praise,
	While here sad thousands bow in prayer,
	And funeral notes in grief we raise.

	Farewell, dear brother Brigham Young,
	God called thee through th' eternal gate,
	They fame shall dwell on every tongue,
	And Saints thy worth will emulate.

	Thy work on earth was nobly done,
	And peace smiles sweetly on thee now;
	The crown celestial thou hast won,
	In splendor waits to deck thy brow.

[The music of the above will appear in the October
number of the "Utah Musical Times."]


NOTES AND NEWS.

	A CORRESPONDENT in a private letter
writing from Italy, says that this autumn
the members of the Italian Parliament will
discuss the question of conceding munici-
pal Suffrage to women.—Ex.

	MRS. E. Boynton Herbert, President of
the Illinois State Woman's Suffrage Asso-
ciation proposes a Woman's Congress for the
State, and appoints meetings in Chicago for
the 4th and 5th of October next. These
Suffrage Associations are doing a good work
and the combined force of such practical
efforts cannot fail but bring about in good
time the desired result of universal suffrage.
A vast amount of courage and continuity is
necessary certainly, but with such zealous
and devoted workers all obstacles must at
length be overcome.

	THE EMPLOYMENT of women in the tel-
egraph department has been a complete
success in England. Over eleven thousand
are employed in London, and there has
been but one dismissed in four years. Their
hours are from 8 A.M. to 8 P.M., each being
on duty eight consecutive hours out of
these twelve. In the establishment there
is a kitchen and dining-rooms, and the
girls have a thoroughly good dinner for
twenty cents. The pay begins at two dol-
lars a week, which is raised to three dollars
when the girl is competent. Girls may en-
ter from 14 to 18. The average pay re-
ceived is four dollars and a half a week, and
the highest is seven dollars and a half a
week.—Woman's Journal.

	VICTOR HUGO on the Woman Question
reasons in this wise, and perhaps the word of
a man of not like him may have some influ-
ence with society at large: "Courage, alas
he must have who will be just towards the
weaker. The weaker is Woman. Our ill-
balanced society seems as if it would take
from her all that Nature has endowed her
with. In our codes there is something to
recast. It is what I call the Woman Law.
Man has his law; he has made it for him-
self. Woman has only the law of man.
Woman is civilly a minor and morally a
slave. Her education is imbued with this
two-fold character of inferiority. Hence
many sufferings are hers which man must
also justly share. There must be reform,
and it will be for the benefit of civilization,
truth and light."

	DEATH OF MISS CARPENTER. — Miss
Mary Carpenter, who was well known for
the active part she has taken in the reform-
atory movement, and in the promotion of
ragged schools and of female education,
died a short time since at Redhedge, Bris-
tol. She was the daughter of the late Rev.
Dr. Lant Carpenter, of Bristol, and was
born in 1807. She had published several
works on the best methods of dealing with
youthful criminals, and on various other
philanthropic and educational subjects. She
read many papers before the Social Science
Association, and paid four visits to India
for the purpose of promoting female educa-
tion and prison reform in that country. her
last visit was made in 1875-76; and only
recently a parliamentary paper was issued
containing two letters which Miss Carpen-
ter had written to Lord Salisbury, at his
Lordship's desire giving her views upon
the questions of female education and prison
discipline in India.

	PETITIONS FOR a Sixteenth Amendment
for Woman, from 10,000 United States citi-
zens, from twenty-two States, have been
presented in open House and Senate by
thirty-one Representatives and twenty-nine
Senators since January 9th, 1877. The
friends of Woman Suffrage in both Houses
who intend to advocate this amendment in
the new Congress, desire its friends to sus-
tain them by mammoth petitions from
every quarter. It is earnestly desired that
all who have a desire to see woman in pos-
session of the right to advancement on an
equal footing with her brother man, will
sign these petitions, and thereby show to
the world that the shackles of superstition
and false education can be unriveted with-
out the  heretofore popular methods of war.
	Woman has fully demonstrated wherever
an opportunity has been given her, that
she is capable of taking her place side by
side with man, intellectually, and as the
ballot ought to be governed by intelligence
there is no reason why woman should be
deprived of its use.—Wolcottville (Ind.)
Gazette. 

	THE DEATH of Lady Sterling-Maxwell,
(better known as Hon. Mrs. Norton,) for-
merly Miss Caroline Elizabeth Sarah Sher-
idan, occurred recently; she was born in

1808, and was the daughter of the late Mr.
Thomas Sheridan, and granddaughter of 
the Right Hon. Richard Brinsley Sheridan.
At a very early age she shewed a taste for
authoriship, and produced "The Dandle's 
Rout," with illustrations from her own de-
signs. In 1821 she published "The Sor-
rows of Rosalie," and in 1831 a poem called
"The Undying One," based on the legend
of "The Wandering Jew." These were
followed by several volumes of poems and
works of fiction some of the latest of
which were "Lost and Saved," published 
in 1868. Miss Sheridan married, about
1829, the Hon. George C. Norton, a brother
to Lord Grantly and for many years a mag-
istrate at the Lambeth Police court. Mr.
Norton died in 1875; and on the 2nd of last
March, Mrs. Norton, who had for some time
been confined to her room, was married at 
her own residence to Sir William Sterling-
Maxwell, Bart. M. P.


	MRS. Virginia Barnhurst. Secretary of
the Natioal Woman Suffrage Association,
Philadelphia, has written some of the
strongest and mose able articles on the wo-
man question. In the "Ballot Box" of Sep-
tember she has an article entitled "Careless
Admissions," which strikes us as being
well-timed and to the point. We would
gladly publish it in full but can now only
qote part of it: "Women have reay noth-
ing to a of men in thi matter. no more 
than one man has to ask of another, exept-
ing to request that they will not interfere
with the exercise of their rights, and when 
they appeal to the government, as they now 
are doing, it is not for RIGHTS, but for pro-
tection in the exercise of rights." Mrs. B.
says, "I once heard one of our prominent
woman speakers from the platform, in a 
sweet, pathetic and quite imploring voice
appeal to the men in the audience with "It 
is so easy to give us the right; you can if
you will." All of this, however concilatory,
tame, and traditionally womanly, goes to 
make an admisses that is neither intended,
nor one that can be made false as it is with-
out drawing upon us ever ready to criticism.
It means nothing more nor less than that 
woman has not the right to vote-that man 
has, and, too, that he has the authoirty to 
give her the right, whenever his lordship
may, in his own good time, see proper to
be so agreeable and condescending.
	In the first place women are not asking
for rights. Rights are something that can
neither be given not taken away, and if it 
were otherwise she would not be likely to 
go to man for them, as according to Ameri-
can autonomy rights are equal in citizen-
ship, and thus one citizen has no more power
than another, and has nothing to give to
that other which that other, like him or
her, does not possess. If by some HOCUS-
POCUs it has come that man is in EXERCISE
of the franchise and woman is not, this 
does not weaken or destroy woman's right
to it, neither does it give him the least au-
thority over her right."


MRS. J. Southworth Spaulding will lec-
ture this winter on "How shall we Help
Ourselves" and "Popular Fallacies."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
DEWEYVILLE, BOX ELDER CO.,
Aug. 27th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 We held our Second Annual Meeting
Aug. 6th, 1877.  It being election day the
school house was occupied, and our Presi-
dent being sick at the time, meeting was
held at her residence.  President Harriet
A. Snow and Mrs. Fannie Loveland of
Brigham City were present and gave good
instructions to old and young; exhorted the
sisters to live their religion and have char-
ity one for another.  President J. C. Dewey
occupied a portion of the time, and spoke
encouraging words to us; said the Relief
Society was a great help to him.  Mrs. Dur-
fee gave a brief history of her experience
in the church, which was very interesting,
as she had been a member for forty years.
 The treasurer read a report of one year's
proceedings in the Society, which was
unanimously accpeted. We have means in
the Society to the amount of thirty dollars.
Here I will mention about saving Sunday
eggs: after our first annual meeting our
president proposed for each sister to save
Sunday eggs, for the benefit of the Society
which met with opposition (as all good
principles do), but ten sisters united with
her and saved their Sunday eggs, which
amounted to thirty-six dollars in one year.
Allow me to state here that I think this is
the most appropriate plan of getting means
in a Society that I know of.  We meet once
in two weeks and a good spirit prevails
throughout our little settlement, and we
begin to realize the benefit of a Relief So-
ciety.  We had a Party in the evening
for the benefit of the Society; pleasant feel-
ings and united hearts made our party a
success. Your worthy paper is a great help
to us.
	Your sister in the true Gospel,
ELIZA HOWARD, Secretary.
LEVAN, JUAB CO., Aug. 24th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 Knowing the interest you take in Relief
Societies, I thought a few items from our
quiet little settlement might not be unin-
teresting.  We held a meeting on Monday
last, when we were favored with the pres-
ence of President George Teasdale, Bishop
Aagaard, Elders Christiansen, Mitcock and
Hendricksen. Mrs. Nancy Hartley, who
has long been our president, and Mrs. Su-
san Mitcock, one of her counselors, resigned,
and although their reasons were perfectly
justifiable; their resignation was accepted
with regret.  The following officers were
unanimously sustained:
	Mrs. Sorina Aargaard, President.
	"	Catherine Dye,
	"	Hedevig Christianson,	Counselors,
	"	Eliza Curtis, Treasurer,
	"	Hannah Hendrickson, Secretary.
	A vote of thanks was given to Mrs. N.
Hartley and Mrs. S. Mitcock for their past
labors and counsel.
	President Teasdale gave us much encour-
agement and kind instructions.  We en-
joyed a very profitable meeting.
Respectfully,
HANNAH HENDRICKSON,
Secretary.
RICHVILLE, MORGAN CO.,
Aug. 23, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 On the 25th of April last our Society was
called together by Bishop W. G. Smith, and
we were re-organized.  Mrs. Fannie Taggart
was chosen by the voice of the Society to
act as President; she then chose Susannah
S. Seamen and Ann Walden as her Counsel-
ors; the other officers were voted in. Our
Society is small, twenty members in all.
Since 1871 we have donated for public be-
nevolent purposes seventeen dollars and
sixty cents.  We help the poor as we have
opportunity.  We have now in the Treasury
three good quilts and a good parlor stove.
I thought a brief account of our Society
might not be uninteresting to you. The
sisters all feel anxious to do all in their
power to assist in rolling on this great work.
With much love for the cause, I subscribe
myself,
		Your fellow laborer in Zion,
FANNIE TAGGART.
SALEM, UTAH CO., Aug. 23, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
The Young Ladies' Retrenchment Asso-
ciation of this place held their Second An-
nual Meeting July 27th, 1877.  Meeting
opened in the usual manner; after which
Bishop Robert H. Davis addressed the con-
gregation; he urged the sisters to be faith-
ful to their meetings, said it would prove a
great blessing to them in after years; he
also urged them to be true to the cove-
nants which they had made with them-
selves and with God.  Brother Clous O.
Bahr bore his testimony to the truth of the
Gospel. Excellent remarks were made by
Mrs. Alice Gardner, Mrs. Mary Reed, Mrs.
Lucinda Jackman and President Mrs. Mar-
tha Curtis.  There were a variety of pieces
recited and songs sung by members of the
Association. After meeting we me[-] at
Bishop Davis's and partook of a picnic,
which all seemed to enjoy.  Our Society is
small, but we try to do as well as we can.
There is considerable sickness in this place
at present, more than has been known for
some years past; there have been several
deaths among the children, but we know
they died innocent, and will be permitted
to come forth in the morning of the First
Resurrection, and if we are faithful we
shall be permitted to meet them again.
Praying for the success of the EXPONENT
and those interested in it, we subscribe
ourselves,
		Your sisters in the Gospel,
				A. S. HANKS, Secretary,
I. CURTIS, Ass't Sec'y.


[Column 1]
		BYRON MEMORIALS.

	There has been a private view of the
models sent in for the statue of Lord Byron
to be erected in the Green Park, and of
other Byroniana, which have been brought
together at the Albert Hall, Knightsbridge.
The various articles exhibited—including
39 designs for a memorial statue—were
nearly 100 in all, through grouped in the
catalogue in 71 lots. Of the statues there
is really little or nothing to be said, except
that while all came up to a certain level,
none rise in our estimation, at least, to the
highest order of merit; the best being No.
1, which represents the poet in an attitude
of contemplation, and No. 6, which also
gives us Lord Byron seated, as he loved to
sit, upon the rocks watching the play of
the sunlight on the waves. This statue,
which is by Mr. Richard Belt, is under-
stood to have been selected for acceptance
by the committee. The rest of the models
for the most part represent the poet either

[Column 2]
in a flowing cloak like a Roman toga, or in
the boating dress so familiar to us by the
engraver's art. Few of them are remark-
able for originality or for ideal beauty,
though they give us every variety of pos-
ture—meditative, contemplative, active,
and defiant, and (in one case) in an "action
of inspiration." Far more interesting were
the "Byroniana" exhibited in the west
room, about 40 in all. There were busts,
portraits, miniatures, and medallions of
Lord Byron at various periods of life—as a
child, at school, at college, and as a full-
grown man, including the well-known por-
trait of him by Philips, from Newstead
Abbey, and another by the same artist from
Stoneleigh; a water color drawing of his
lordship in his robes as a nobleman at Cam-
bridge, by Gilchrist; and another anony-
mous portrait of him in early life, the his-
tory and painter of which are both un-
known. There were autograph letters from
the poet to his friends, Mr. Hodgson, Dr.
Bowring, and Sir John Hobhouse; the
original draught of the fourth canto of
"Childe Harold;" first editions and pre-
sentation copies of several of his poems, in
many cases inscribed in his own hand;
Stothard's medal of Lord Byron; the cav-
alry sword presented by Byron to his friend
Trelawny during their voyage to Greece,
with the words, "There, take it and use it,
either like Don Juan or like Childe Har-
old." In another case were the silver
watch which Byron wore as a boy at Har-
row; the china teacups and saucers that
stood on his mantle shelf at Cambridge; the
gold locket and gold pin which he usually
wore; the crucifix found in his room after
his death at Missolonghi; his snuffbox; his
seal, with crest and arms; the helmet and
the "boarding cap" which he wore daily
in Greece; a silver teapot purchased at the
sale of his effects; and the boxing gloves
used by him in his "sparring" encounters
with Jackson, the pugilist. In another
case were other swords, daggers, and pipes,
all connected in some way with Lord Byron
as their owner or donor; an autograph of
the poet's earliest love, Mary Ann Cha-
worth; the collar of Boatswain, Lord By-
ron's favorite dog and "only friend," who
lies buried at Newstead; and last but not
least in point of interest, his pocket New
Testament, of which the catalogue tells us
that it was presented by his wife to Lord
Byron, who afterwards gave it to Lady
Caroline Lamb. It would seem to have
subsequently belonged to another celebrity,
for on its title page is written "Sidney Mor-
gan, 1851." We ought also to mention the
large oil painting of Newstead Abbey, exe-
cuted by G. Varley in 1809 at the request
of Lord Byron. But perhaps the most in-
teresting of all the memorials is that num-
bered 54 in the catalogue, a document
drawn up by Lord Byron in his own hand-
writing in August, 1817, relating to his
separation from Lady Byron, in which he
throws the blame of that transaction on the
lady's advisors, and offers to submit the
matters in dispute to some third party for
adjudication. The Exhibition is now open
to the public at the Albert Hall.


LOVE never tires; the more we love the
more we have of solid satisfaction. Every
new soul we come in contact with and learn
to esteem fills us with new light and life. 
Those who love others are themselves full
of sunshine, and the day marches triumph-
antly on with them from rosy morn to
dewy eve and silent night.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
			A TRIBUTE.

Thou unforgotten one! My noble Sire!
Upon the altar of my loving heart
Burns ever bright the holy [--]ial fire!
Nought can extinguish while my mem'ry lives.
Thou good and noble! I did love thee well;
And honor'd thee, as subject did a king;
Thou wert the idol of my childish days,
And in my infant heart you reign'd supreme;
The "bright particular star" whose vivid ray
Shed warmth and sunlight on my daily path!
When thou wert absent how I counted o'er
The days that must elapse ere thy return—
All nature seem'd to me to sit, and wait,
And watch, and wait for thee; no life appear'd
To my young spirit in the things of life
When thou wert absent from the dear old Home!
The sun, though shining, seem'd not half so bright
As when beheld beneath thy voice of love!—
Thy voice so musical and its tones so sweet;
Thy form so noble, beautiful and good;
Beside a king, thou wouldst his compeer been,
Beside an honest man, his counterpart!
Thy footstep!—years have flown, and yet I shut
Mine eyes and listen, and I hear it still!
And all the language that it ever spoke.
Thine eye!—when that shone out approval
Twas my "exceeding great reward," and when
It looked severe upon me, the great deep
Of my heart's fountain, then, was broken up;
And as I grew this strengthen'd with my strength,
And if I wrote, it was that he might read,
And his approval all my guerdon was,
And all th' applause my heart or brain did crave;
He in my heart was oracle and judge.

Since those sweet days, a mighty change has come—
He sank, and died, to lose the ones he lov'd—
For they to him were stars of destiny;
But all is right with him; he was on earth
All that a righteous man has scope to be,
In this probation, where the bounds are set;
He walked according to the light he had,
And God, of men or angels, asks no more;
He has a future! a great, grand future,
And the inspiration of this [--]ial lay
Is, that I might twine his honor'd name
Among the Saints of latter days, knowing
His place is with them, and a day shall come
When he shall rise and stand among their ranks.
And she, who was the partner of his life,
Worthy, and most beloved by him, his hand
Shall hold, and lead forever—his endow'd,
His chaste, and most obedient wife. In
Vision I behold them! good and noble pair;
Redeemed, baptized, endowed, accepted Saints;
United stand among the serried ranks
Of Saints of Latter days—Christ's Church on earth:
And I their cherished child with them once more.
								HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. City, Aug. 19th, 1877.


[Column 1]

NOTES BY THE WAY.

JOURNEYING TO SODA SPRINGS.

	I hoped to be able to send you a descrip-
tion of the deer hunt I've been dreaming
about since I left home; but as Rob is the
only one who has seen a deer, my descrip-
tion will be of another character. All the
boys have left me to watch the camp, while
they pay a visit to the cave, and as I have
had that pleasure, I will endeavor to tell
you what they may expect to see. In the
distance the road encircling the mound
which marks the situation of the cave,
seems to be formed of a crayon white dust;
but soon the hard rattle of the wheels, and
a closer inspection show it to be composed
of a substance equal in color and brittleness
to "adamantine marble" on which the visi-
tor rides with an ease that is only excelled
by the R. R. carriage, in its turn equaled
by the pleasing shade and luscious fragrance
which come from the trees bordering the
road-side. Ease and agreeableness are not
its only exterior possessions. From the
simplicity of the springs to the mysteries
of petrifaction the curiosity is excited.
You can imagine the wagon going round
the sloping side of the semicircle, and the

[Column 2]

boys, lost in observation, unconscious of
having lost the shade. Here the mound is
covered with a thin layer of water, so clear
as to be distinguishable only by the splash-
ing of the horses' feet. On the upper side
of the road an occasional flower has formed
a barrier to the little sediments which it
has increased in size until a uniform ridge,
an inch in height, the entire length of the
semicircle is formed. Over this there is a
curious compound of water which has
caused the petrifaction of flower and sedi-
ment, and flows in a small ripple; then pass-
es over the road with a clearness and even-
ness that characterizes the surface of a
looking glass. A few yards farther up is
another ridge, increasing in size propor-
tionally with the incline of the mound;-
farther up is another, and still another, each
increasing in size as it advances until at
once the curious eye feasts on the delicate
ripple and the massive waterfall. The top
ridge forms the summit of the mound and
roof of the cave. Here, although the eye
of the observer is presented to an entirely
different view, his curiosity is none the less
excited. Each ridge seems to form a for-
tification that would resist the power of
Caesar and frustrate the designs of Archi-
medes; and all taken together to afford a
safe retreat to Captain Jack against the
Uuited States' entire army. And all seems
once to have been a green and luxuriant
forest, changed by petrifaction in a massive
rocky mound. Perhaps I am wrong, for I
have not heard the statements of philoso-
phy on these curiosities, I can give none
other opinion but my own. From between
the ridges, for your inspection, I have been
pleased to gather specimens of pieces of
petrified branches, leaves and stems, and
which are so perfect in preservation, and
likeness to nature, that you will not think
my opinion so great an absurdity, that the
boys are now on top of a petrified forest.
Please have the patience to follow the boys
into the cave. "Snakes in your boots," is
the feeling which possesses one as he
crawls down the dark and gloomy hole, and
dreadful it feels as he reaches the bottom,
about 20 ft., but when the candles are lit,
the gloom and darkness disappear and in-
stead of a feeling of dread, one of sublim-
ity and awe possess a person as he looks
upon curiosities not surpassed in the stat-
uary department of the Zoological Gardens.
Of course I exaggerate in my comparisons,
"kuz" its natural; but really the interior of
the cave is grand. It is rectangular in form,
with no sharp pointed rocks, nor serpentine
cracks to fill the observer with fear, but all
is as regular as though it had been con-
trived by the hand of art. Inside the for-
mation corresponds with the out. On the
ends of small hanging branches at the top
of the cave, drops of water seem to have
accumulated and all petrified, from an oval
shaped range of rock along the entire
length of the roof; directly below the first,
is another layer which is larger. Between
the layers, on the points of what appears to
be minute branches pointing out in every
direction, little round drops have been
formed. In the crevices between which
can be seen an original whiteness, contrast-
ing with the smoky walls. These ranges
extending from one end of the cave to the
other and spangled between as it were with
"dew drops" vary in size from a few grains
to stones weighing tons. An occasional
crack in the ceiling lets in lights which
coming in contact with the dimly illumi-
nated darkness produces a light of calcium
which tints the pure white rock, with a
pink so delicate, as to add beauty two-fold
to the scene. It was in the glare of one of

[Column 3]

these lights that I was reminded forcibly of
Chief Vanderdecau, with his spectre ship-
mates drinking healths. We were all
standing under one of those calcium glares,
one of us pouring a libation (of Soda) an-
other with satisfaction drinking, another
anxiously holding his cup, and the rest of
us expectantly awaiting turn.  The scene
was so dismal, the attitude so natural, the
situation so appropriate, all so ghostlike,
the entire tableau so perfect that it could
not be surpassed by Mr. Ottinger on the
Salt Lake Stage.
	Yours Truly,
		JOE.


ESSAY ON SELF-GOVERNMENT.

	I think we as saints ought to try to gov-
ern and control ourselves and all our evil
propensities, because if we cannot control
ourselves we cannot control those who are
placed in our care; I have myself tried to
do so, and I have gained considerable, and
intend to continue and watch myself in
everything. We ought also to be united in
all things. Jesus has said "If ye are not
one ye are not mine." Although we may
consider ourselves true Latter-day Saints, if
we are not united in doing that which we
are taught by those holding the Priesthood,
we cannot claim to be one. We profess to
be one in faith, one in baptism, then in
what are we not one? In wordly matters.
Have we anything that the Lord has not
given unto us? From what other source did
we receive the blessings that we daily en-
joy? We should be truly thankful to Him
for them. If we were united as we ought
to be, we would have more power to do
good, for where there is union there is
strength. He can at any moment take from
us all we possess, still he allows us to live
on, in obedience or disobedience, which ever
path we choose. Will He always be merci-
ful? He has said that the wicked should
be swept from the earth, if they do not re-
pent and serve Him. He has said also that
the kingdom shall not be given to another
people, but a few will stand firm and true
to the covenants they have made with God
and each other, and will assist in the re-
demption of Zion; but we will only do it
by being willing to make every sacrifice
that is necessary for the accomplishment of
that end. We may have to do many things
that are not pleasant, we must not say we
cannot; we must say that we will serve
God come what may, and earn the reward
in store for the faithful; true saints must
embrace every principle pertaining to sal-
vation advanced by the servants of God,
and try to live in accordance with the
same. There is nothing too hard for us to
do in order that we may obtain our exalta-
tion; God requires nothing of His children
that they are not able to perform, but we
must be determined, and pray for strength
and it will be given us. Let us be obedient
to those who are placed over us, and the
Lord will bless us; and especially let us
carry out the wishes of the President of
our Society, and do all we can to encourage
her, and sustain her by our faith and
prayers.
	Sisters, let us then be united, for in unity
is strength; let us sustain each other and
devote our time to the building up of the
kingdom of God, so that we may have His
Spirit at all times is my earnest prayer.
						MRS. KELSON.


THE road to ruin is always kept in good
order, and those who travel it pay the ex-
penses.


60		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising 
rates. Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to 
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
Eaststreets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, SEPT. 15, 1877.


[Column 1]

FUNERAL SERVICES OF PRESIDENT
BRIGHAM YOUNG.

	The funeral services of the late lamented
President Brigham Young were held on Sun-
day Sept. 2d, in the New Tabernacle in this
city. The remains of the deceased were re-
moved to the Tabernacle on Saturday Sept. 1,
where they lay in state in order that the peo-
ple might have the privilege of taking a last
farewell of their beloved leader, prophet and
friend.
	It has been estimated that during the time
the body lay in state in the Tabernacle 25,000
persons availed themselves of the privilege of
looking for the last time upon their dearly be-
loved brother and president. During the night
the Tabernacle was lit with lamps and torches,
and the effect of the drapings of this large and
lofty building, the vases of flowers, the mag-
nificient organ draped also with black, was
sublimely grand and impressive by artificial
light. The Sabbath morning which ushered
in the day of the burial was serenely beauti-
ful, calm and peaceful, and a holy feeling of
resignation crept over the soul and soothed the
sorrow of all who yielded to the sacred influ-
ence. The coffin was removed from the me-
talic covering in which it had been placed to
preserve the body from the air, also the drap-
ery on the lid which was fastened down on
the coffin, was placed a large and elegant
wreath and cross, and at the foot a harp as an
emblem of the Harp of Zion, all composed of
the rarest and choicest delicate white flowers,
most artistically arranged, with a few rich
green leaves and ferns. It is estimated that 
18,000 persons were seated in the Tabernacle.
During the morning the music from the organ
and orchestra added greatly to the solemnity
of the occasion; the musicians rendered in the
most perfectly appropriate manner "The Dead
March of Saul," "Brigham Young's Funeral
March" composed expressly for the occasion
by Jos. J. Daynes for the organ. Wilson's Fu-
neral March," organ "Mendelssohn's Funeral
March," organ and orchestra. The President's
seat was occupied by his counselors. Ten of
the Apostles were present in their accustomed
seats, the patriarch of the church, First presi-
dents of Seventies, the Presidency of the 
stake, the Presiding Bishop and his counselors,
were all in their respective seats according to
their order. The Bishops of the different
wards with their counselors were seated on the
platform north of the stand, the family and
friends of the deceased in front of the stand;
the south center seats east of the family were
filled by the Seventies; the north centre, cor-
responding, by the High Priests. The rest of
the building was entirely filled even the aisles
and doorways.
	Precisely at 12, m. the congregation was

[Column 2]

called to order and the ceremonies were con-
ducted by Elder George Q. Cannon by request
of the family. The choir of over two hundred
voices sung "Hark from afar a funeral knell."
Elder F. D. Richards made the opening pray-
er (which we have published in full on anoth-
er page.)
	The choir then sang "Thou dost not weep to
weep alone."
	President D. H. Wells was the first speaker
on the occasion, followed by Elder Wilford
Woodruff and Elder Erastus Snow, each of
them seemingly full of the Holy Spirit, which 
ever brings consolation in the midst of the 
deepest sorrow. Elder George Q. Cannon then
read the following:
	Nearly four years ago President Young, in
company with a number of other Elders, wrote
his instructions which he and they desired to
have left on record concerning their funerals.
It was his written request that his instructions
upon this subject be read at his funeral. They
are as follows;
	"I, Brigham Young, wish my funeral services
to be conducted in the following manner:
	When I breathe my last I wish my friends
to put my body in as clean and wholesome
state as can conveniently be done and preserve
the same for one, two, three or four days or as
long as my body can be preserved in a good
condition. I want my coffin made of plump
one and one fourth inch redwood boards, not
scrimped in length, but two inches longer than
I would measure, and from two to three inches
wider than is commonly made for a person my
breadth and size and deep enough to place me
on a little comfortable cotton bed with a good,
suitable pillow for size and quality; my body
dressed in my Temple clothing and laid nicely
into my coffin, and the coffin to have the ap-
pearance that if I wanted to turn a little to 
the right or to the left I should have plenty of
room to do so; the lid can be made crowning.
	At my interment I wish all my family pres-
ent that can be conveniently, and the male
members wear no crape on their hats or their
coats: the females to buy no black bonnets,
nor black dresses, nor black veils; but if they
have them they are at liberty to wear them.
The services may be permitted as singing and
a prayer offered, and if any of my friends wish
to say a few words, and really desire, do so;
and when they have closed their services, take
my remains on a bier and repair to the little
burying ground which I have reserved on my
lot east of the White House on the hill, and
in the southeast corner of this lot have a vault
built of mason-work large enough to receive
my coffin, and that may be placed in a box if
they choose, made of the same material as the
coffin—redwood. Then place flat rocks over
the vault, sufficiently large to cover it, and the
earth may be placed over it—nice, fine, dry
earth—to cover it until the walls of the little
cemetery are reared which will leave me in the
southeast corner. This vault ought to be
roofed over with some kind of temporary roof.
There let my earthly house or tabernacle rest
in peace and have a good sleep until the morn-
ing of the first resurrection; no crying, nor
mourning with any one that I have done my
work faithfully and in good faith.
	I wish this to be read at the funeral, provid-
ing that if I should die anywhere in the
Mountains, I desire the above directions re-
specting my place of burial to be observed;
but if I should live to go back with the Church
to Jackson County, I wish to be buried there.
	BRIGHAM YOUNG,
President of the Church of Jesus Christ
	of Latter-day Saints
SUNDAY, November 9th, 1873,
	Salt Lake City, Utah Ter.

[Column 3]

Afterwards making some exquisitely touching
remarks. He was followed by Elder John Tay-
lor, who spoke with great power and spiritual
eloquence. A funeral hymn composed expressly
for the occasion was then sung. (This hymn we
publish on our first page.)
	Elder Cannon gave instructions in regard to
the procession, and Elder Orson Hyde pro-
nounced the benediction (which will be found
in full on another page).
	While the congregation was passing our of
the Tabernacle, the organ, orchestra and choir
performed "The Dead March," with the words
"Unveil thy bosom faithful tomb." The pro-
cession, consisting of thousands, formed in per-
fect order, according to programme proceeded to
the cemetery, where the Union Glee Club sang
"O my Father, Thou that Dwellest," and Elder
Wilford Woodruff offered the Dedicatory
Prayer: This most solemn, grand and impres-
sive funeral, so perfect in all its arrangements
and details, carried to the bosom of every Lat-
ter-day Saint a sweet feeling of holy calm and
quiet, sacred sympathy that words are wholly
inadequate to express. Order, peace and har-
mony pervaded the vast multitude, and one
could very easily believe angels and holy beings
were witnesses on that grand and sublime oc-
casion.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE SHALL publish in our next issue, Oct. 1st,
the Epistle of the Twelve Apostles and Coun-
selors to the Courch of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints. This document is of special
importance, and one which all the Saints will
wish to preserve for future perusal. 

	WE LEARN through the "Deseret News" that
J. W. Carpenter proposes publishing a semi-
monthly paper at St. George, to be called the
"St. George Union," with the motto United
we stand, divided we fall; price $1.00 per year.
Success to all enterprises for the promotion and
advancement of the best interests of the Saints.

	WE ACKNOWLEDGE the pleasure of one or
two calls from Mrs. John Wyckliffe Ricks, a
literary lady of whom we had previously heard
concerning her ability as a writer and speaker.
Mrs. Ricks also introduced her husband. This
lady is the author of some books both in prose
and poetry. One, a poem entitled "Welded
Links," we have heard highly spoken of by
those who have read it. Mrs. Ricks expressed
herself as favorably impressed with Salt Lake
City and its people. She is an animated and
eloquent conversationist.

	WE HAVE received from T. McIntyre of the
Pioneer Art Gallery a cabinet sized picture of
President Brigham Young in a handsome oval
frame, for which we return many thanks. The
picture is very natural, representing the Presi-
dent seated in his usual graceful and easy man-
ner. We also return our thanks to Daynes &
Clark for two copies handed us of "Brigham
Young's Funeral March," composed by Joseph
J. Daynes, with Prest. Young's picture on the
first page and inseribed "In Memory of His Ex-
cellency Brigham Young, Ex-Governor of Utah
Territory, and late President of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, who died
Aug. 29, 1877."

	WE ARE truly pleased to have among our
exchanges "The Ballot Box," published in
Toledo, Ohio, in the advocacy of equal rights,
irrespective of sex, by the "Toledo Suffrage
Association." The "Ballot Box" is most ably
edited by Sarah R. L. Williams, and contains
letters from the different States and Territories,
representing the advancement of the work in


the vicinity, and articles on all subjects bear-
ing upon Woman's Cause, her elevation and
her progression towards equal rights. This
paper bears strong testimony how women are
toiling with the voice and with the pen in the
great vineyard of work, unselfishly and un-
flinchingly for a higher standard to which to
lift man and womankind.
	MRS. F. C. GRISWOLD of Minneapolis, Minn.,
called on us to make some inquiries concerning
our religious faith and practises. Mrs. Griswold
had heard Ann Eliza lecture, and not being fa-
vorably impressed, determined to ascertain the
truth for herself regarding some of Ann Eliza's
statements. Mrs. Griswold is a lady of superior
cultivation and attainments, a writer, also
something of an artist and musician. She was
enthusiastic in her appreciation of the scenery
in and about Salt Lake City, and remarked that
these mountains reminded her continually of
the Bible phrase "The everlasting hills." Mrs.
Griswold is an earnest worker in the cause of
Woman's Suffrage. She is deeply interested in
the redemption of fallen women, believing they
are much sinned against, as well as deeply
wronged by the customs and usages of society
and man-made laws. She is one of the efficient
supporters of the "Bethany House" in Minne-
apolis; the Societies are called "Erring Wo-
man's Societies." Great credit is certainly due
to these large-hearted women who are making
such noble exertions in face of frowns and op-
position to bring about an order of things that
will give woman the same chance to retrace a
downward course as her brother man.
	SILK.—The Deseret Silk. Association met at
Fireman's Hall, Friday, Sept. 7th, Mrs. Zina
D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young stated that the Society was in
a prosperous condition, having twenty-six
pounds, three ounces of reeled silk ready to
be worked up as soon as we could get the ma-
chinery, which she thought would not be long.
We could thus keep labor and capital in our
own community, and be the means of finding
employment for the rising generation, and for
many that are coming to the valleys every
year. She spoke of the interest taken by
our late beloved President in this enter-
prise. The examples he had set and the
counsels he had given ought to stimulate the
Saints to more diligence to make this one of
the best branches of home industry. We had
the requisite climate and what we needed now
was the people to plant out trees and raise the
cocoons, and ere long we would be able to sup-
ply the home demand with sewing silk of all
kinds.
	Mr <i opu(r,prp?ppctq;.for="" gettingvmachinery="" so.wpood-="" ;i="" i="" d="" l-z.rur:="" '.'="" ’="" :="" okffomrs-ianrjettd="" cutamingk="" said="" shehad="" good!="" huuccebs,="" this="" .yehf;="" had="" raised="" some="" very="" fine="" l-fitcocdons="" anjlflve="" gnd'a="" halfouncesofeggs.="" ;="" -u'i="" ,mrs,'iltlfcyhl':young="" 'of="" st.="" georgej="" she="" ldreltflf’de'ep="">Paul A. Schettler said he felt greatly in-
terested in the raising and manufacture of silk.
He thought we ought to be a little more ener-
getic. Our prospects for getting machinery
were good.
	Mrs. Annette Cummings said she had good
success this year; had raised some very fine
cocoons and five and a half ounces of eggs.
	Mrs. Lucy B. Young of St. George, said she
felt a deep interest in this branch of industry.
There had been silk raised, reeled, and manu-
factured into various articles of wearing ap-
parel in that section of the country.  She in-
tended using all her influence towards this en-
terprize.
	Mrs. Schinetter said she had raised thirty
pounds of cocoons and eight ounces of eggs,
and felt greatly encouraged with her success.
The meeting was addressed by Mrs. Margaret
P. Young, Miss Mary A. Rockwood, Mrs. As-
per and others. Meeting adjourned until the
first Friday in October, at 3 p. m.
				R. SIMPSON, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		61


[Column 1]
REMARKS MADE AT THE FUNERAL
		OF PRESIDENT BRIGHAM
				YOUNG.

	REPORTED PHONOGRAPHICALLY BY
			ELDER GEORGE F. GIBBS.

			PRESIDENT D. H. WELLS.

	I arise with an aching heart, but cannot let
this opportunity pass of paying at least a tribute
of respect to our departed friend and brother,
who has just stepped behind the veil. I can only
say let the silent tear fall that it may give re-
lief to the troubled heart; for we have lost our
counselor, our friend, our president; a friend to
God, a friend to His saints, a friend to the
Church. and a friend to humanity.
	I have no desire or wish to multiply words,
feeling that it is rather a time to mourn
Good-by, Brother Brigham until the morning
of the resurrection day, when thy spirit and
body shall be reunited, and thou shalt inherit
immortality, eternal life and everlasting glory,
and thy life long companions who will soon
follow after will meet thee in peace and joy.
	May God bless the Latter-day Saints, and
may the consolations of the holy Gospel, the
hope of the glorious resurrection and redemp-
tion wrought out by our Lord and Savious Je-
sus Christ pervade every heart to the consol-
ing thereof, is my prayer, in the name of Je-
sus. Amen.

		ELDER WILFORD WOODRUFF.

	We have lying before us the earthly taber-
nacle of President Brigham Young. His voice
is hushed in death, and all Israel has to bow
and submit to the mind and will of God. Is-
rael will never again hear his voice until af-
ter the resurrection. I have no desire to occu-
py the time of this assembly in eulogizing the
life of President Young. His works and words
are recorded in heaven, and they are recorded
here on the earth; and that is sufficient. Let
those of us who remain a few days study the
counsels, the sermons and principles which
have been revealed unto us through the mouth
of this the prophet of God. It will be but a
few days until a great many of us who are in
this assembly will follow him.
	It seems as though Joseph was anxious to
have him on the other side of the veil, with
almost all the men that labored with him and
stood shoulder to shoulder with him in the
flesh. I do not suppose there was ever a man
breathed the breath of life, who in the short
space of forty-five years has done so much to-
wards the establishment of the government
and kingdom of God, as our beloved President.
His life has been before many of you for sev-
eral years, and to some from the commence-
ment of his labors in this church. He felt the
weight of this dispensation resting upon him;
he certainly has been true and faithful unto
death, and he is prepared to riceive a crown of
life.
	About all I wish to do in my remarks is to
exhort this great body of people who hold the
holy priesthood that the few remaining days
of our earthly life we continue, faithfully, the
work that is now left to us to do. "The Lord
has given and the Lord has taken away, and
bleesed is the name of the Lord." The great
desire of President Young in the last year of
his life, as well as previously, was that before
he passed away he might erect Temples to the
name of the Lord, in that way and manner
that men holding the holy priesthood in the
flesh could enter into those temples and per-
form their missions, for the redemption of the
dead. This has been plainly manifested to all
who have been much in his company. I re-

[Column 2]
joice that he lived long enough to enter into
one Temple, and to attend to its dedication,
and to commence the work of others. And I
would say to this people, let us go to and finish
these Temples, that we may continue the work
required of us. I trust we will realize the im-
portance of the great and serious responsibili-
ties resting upon us who are engaged in the
work which comprehends all others; it being
the great and last dispensation of the fulness
of times; that we, like our leader may be dili-
gent, day and night, in striving to carry out
the counsels given us.
	I feel to thank God in my spirit that our be-
loved President has had the privilege, when
his work was finished, of laying down his
body in peace, at home, surrounded by his fam-
ily and friends; instead of suffering martyrdom
as did our former President, and as did nearly
all of the ancient Apostles. This, to me is
certainly very consoling. And I would repeat,
let us accomplish the work laid upon us by our
beloved leader, so that when our time is end-
ed, we can go hence and be welcomed into the
society of Brigham, Joseph, George A., Broth-
er Kimball and the host of Elders who have
dwelt in the flesh and proven faithful and true,
feeling satisfied with our labors.
	It is said that "blessings brighten as they
take their flight." I have often felt in listen-
ing to the glorious principles of President
Young that the people here heard him so
much that they hardly prized the beauty and
the extent of the results and virtues of his
teachings. Brethren let us give these things
our serious attention and remember them, and
carry them out in our lives. Let us keep the
commandments, striving in all earnestness to
be true and faithful to the end of our work, so
that we may share the joys of those men
whose names brighten the pages of our his-
tory.
	I would say to the bereaved family, may
God comfort and bless you and give you in-
creasedly of His Spirit. Your husband and
father has gone to prepare the way for his
family who must sooner or later follow after
him. If you, as his wives, his sons and daugh-
ters keep his sayings, you will be prepared to
meet him in the morning of the resurrection,
numbered among the faithful and worthy
ones. And to my brethren and sisters who
have heard his voice for these many years:
let us not forget the precious words of truth
and wisdom he has taught us. We are living
in a time of important changes. If ever a
man could have been saved from dying through
prayer, President Brigham Young could. But
it was not in the power of man to keep him
here. I believe Bro. Geo. A Smith was kept
from dying through the prayers of his breth-
ren and the saints, several months after he was
called away. But when the Lord calls we
must go. When we received word in St.
George of the sickness of President Young, we
stopped all business, and went into the Tem-
ple remaining mostly for two days and nights
engaged in supplicating Almighty God for his
recovery, until the time of his death. Having
finished his work he had to go; and he is now
beyond the power of pain and sorrow, sickness
and death. He has been true and faithful to
the end, and therefore all is, well with him.
	That God may bless us all, and help us to re-
alize the responsibility we are under to him,
to our fellow men and to each other, to the
living and to the dead, is my prayer in the
name of Jesus. Amen.


MRS. E. A. C. Blodgett will lecture the 
coming season on "Among the Breakers."


62		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
OPENING PRAYERS BY ELDER F. D
	RICHARDS, AT THE FUNERAL OF
		PREST. BRIGHAM YOUNG.

	Our Father who art in heaven, in the
name of our Lord Jesus Christ we implore
a measure of thy Holy Spirit to rest down
upon this vast congregation, that we may
worship before thee in the spirit of meek-
ness, and the beauty of holiness, and in
that right and proper frame of mind which
belongs to the Saints of the living God.
	We thank thee, holy Father, that in thy
kind providence and heavenly love, when
the whole earth lay in sin and wickedness,
thou didst break the darkness and send
light and blessing to the human family by
thy servant Joseph; that thou didst cause
the angels of heaven to minister to him, by
which thy will has been revealed again to
man upon the earth, and thine authority
has been restored that the righteous may
minister in the name of Jesus, the forgive-
ness of sins, and the power of the Everlast-
ing Covenant by which mankind may be
brought again unto thee. And we thank
thee, Father, that a[-]ter him, when he had
sealed his testimony with his blood, slain
by the hands of wicked assassins, when the
church was young, and feeble on the earth,
thou didst give us thy servant Brigham to
continue those labors, and to spread abroad
the knowledge of thy will and to establish
thy government in the earth.
	O Lord, this morning, we are called to
part with this, one of the noblest sons of
thy numerous family; and we cannot but
recollect the variety, the multitudinous
character and magnitude of the labors he
has performed here upon the earth. But
we realize that we do not yet feel and know
the extent of that loss which we have sus-
tained by his departure. Thou, Father, hast
made him to be a great captain in Israel, to
lead thy people from scenes of great distress
to these retired vales of the earth, where
homes, peace aod plenty have been abun-
dantly given unto us. Where he has been
permitted by his labors and loving counsels
to establish thy people in thy strength and
blessing, by which thine enemies and the
enemies of thy people, and they too in our
very midst, have been vanquished by the
<fvery midst="" have="" been="" vanquished="" by="" the="" o:!="" power="" of="" faith="" that="" implanted="" in1="" bosoms="" -nof'="" thy="" saints,="" i="" we="" thank="" tlifee="" for="" great,="" riltgood="" be="" has-been="" permitted="" to="" doob="" (the="" earth="" and="" especially:="" people="" israel="" r.="" -andwe="" pray="" that?.thou="" wilt="" grant="" :untoi="" us="" drufhrt="" wq="" may="" mourn="" him="" in="" a:="" proper="" jolpcfipptabies.manpei;="" while="" realizo="" mi.pm="" losja.gxfiatwamoy="" rejoice,="" ourfqthor,="" jqhe="" aqti.cipatiqn="" fhat.jpy="" whjch="" heex-<="" -iljpwrcp?,="" :with,thy="" geryanfj="" joseph="" #vlfyr,um.and.="" timso="" who="" gone="" befprq="" v7="" thpjspqapj="" thof="" iaithfnl,="" ,e,ven="" abraham="" pur="" ancestor,="" ,q="" lord,="" wit="" thou="" jet="" prqm-="" ised="" blessed="" influqhqq="" pftky="" holy="" spirit,="" "and="" .presence="" pf="" their="" spirits="" attend="" up-="" '‘'="" .on="" bk="" to-day,="" dnd="" hq="" fejt="" this="" whole="" mul-="" tifliqo,5="" ‘="" giv6'hpf&‘u="" th'ose="" sincere="" in-="" “teijigen.t'jbys.="" gospel="" shaillift="" oursonls="" abovo="" .dv6fy="" earthly="" carp="" ana="" gor-="" v,'towj="">power of faith that is planted in the bosoms
of thy Saints. We thank thee for the great
good he has been permitted to do on the
earth and especially to thy people Israel.
And we pray that thou wilt grant unto us
that we may mourn for him in a proper and
acceptable manner; that while we realize
our loss is great, we may rejoice, our Father,
in the anticipation of that joy which he ex-
periences, with thy servants Joseph and
Hyrum and those who have gone before of
the sons of the Faithful, even Abraham our
<fvery midst="" have="" been="" vanquished="" by="" the="" o:!="" power="" of="" faith="" that="" implanted="" in1="" bosoms="" -nof'="" thy="" saints,="" i="" we="" thank="" tlifee="" for="" great,="" riltgood="" be="" has-been="" permitted="" to="" doob="" (the="" earth="" and="" especially:="" people="" israel="" r.="" -andwe="" pray="" that?.thou="" wilt="" grant="" :untoi="" us="" drufhrt="" wq="" may="" mourn="" him="" in="" a:="" proper="" jolpcfipptabies.manpei;="" while="" realizo="" mi.pm="" losja.gxfiatwamoy="" rejoice,="" ourfqthor,="" jqhe="" aqti.cipatiqn="" fhat.jpy="" whjch="" heex-<="" -iljpwrcp?,="" :with,thy="" geryanfj="" joseph="" #vlfyr,um.and.="" timso="" who="" gone="" befprq="" v7="" thpjspqapj="" thof="" iaithfnl,="" ,e,ven="" abraham="" pur="" ancestor,="" ,q="" lord,="" wit="" thou="" jet="" prqm-="" ised="" blessed="" influqhqq="" pftky="" holy="" spirit,="" "and="" .presence="" pf="" their="" spirits="" attend="" up-="" '‘'="" .on="" bk="" to-day,="" dnd="" hq="" fejt="" this="" whole="" mul-="" tifliqo,5="" ‘="" giv6'hpf&‘u="" th'ose="" sincere="" in-="" “teijigen.t'jbys.="" gospel="" shaillift="" oursonls="" abovo="" .dv6fy="" earthly="" carp="" ana="" gor-="" v,'towj="">ancestor. O Lord, wilt thou let that prom-
ised blessed influence of thy Holy Spirit,
and the presence of their spirits attend up-
on us to-day, and be felt by this whole mul-
titude. Give unto us those sincere and in-
telligent joys of the gospel that shall lift
our souls above every earthly care and sor-
row, that we may be established in the
principles of truth revealed and rejoice in
the restoration of the keys, powers and au-
thority of the Gospel.
	And we pray that thou wilt comfort the
hearts of the bereaved family and house-
hold with such an exalted view of the char-
acter of thy dealings to thy people and to
them as shall enable each to say, "Father,
thy will be done!" Bless the absent mem-
bers of his family, his sons in other lands;
may they in their ministry and studies feel
the consolations of that spirit which Heaven

[Column 2]
alone can give. Bless, we pray thee, the
wives of thy servant who has departed.
May they entertain that truthful, faithful
and virtuous integrity to him which is most
becoming for them, until they shall embrace
him again, to share and rejoice with him
in the fullness of the blessings of immor-
tality and eternal lives. Bless thou and
comfort and honor his sons and daughters,
the commencement of a mighty race in the
earth. O Lord, establish in them the pow-
ers of the everlasting priesthood and cove-
nant, that they may be enabled to live to 
honor their illustrious father. Wilt thou
remember his two sons who have stepped
forward and who are partakers of the apos-
tleship. May they be[-]ome great lights in
their father's house, those upon whom the
others may lean for assistance, for comfort
and for support in all the walks of life. We
pray that thou wilt comfort thine Elders in
all the earth this day; when they hear of 
these sad tidings may the Holy Spirit min-
ister to them, may angels visit them and
make them to feel that all is well.
	We pray thee to hasten the day when
the great work in which thy servant Brig-
ham has taken so active and prominent
a part, shall be extended and magnified
more abundantly in the earth. We thank
thee, O Lord, that thou didst inspire him
in his latter days to build and dedicate
Temples unto thy name and to set in order
the priesthood therein, together with all
the ordinances thereof both for the iiving
and for the dead, that thou didst move up-
on him to more fully organize the people,
set in order thy church, and clothe thy Zion
more abundantly with the powers of the
holy priesthood.
	O Lord, now that thou hast taken him,
let thy blessings come down in greater
abundance and power upon thy servants
who remain; and preserve thy people from
any manner of schism or discord. And let
those upon whom shall devolve the duty
and responsibility of giving guidance to
thy work upon the earth, abide in the bonds
of the everlasting covenant, and may the
revelations of thy will be given unto them,
thy Spirit be in them, and thy counsels be
made manifest through them to all of thy
<fvery midst="" have="" been="" vanquished="" by="" the="" o:!="" power="" of="" faith="" that="" implanted="" in1="" bosoms="" -nof'="" thy="" saints,="" i="" we="" thank="" tlifee="" for="" great,="" riltgood="" be="" has-been="" permitted="" to="" doob="" (the="" earth="" and="" especially:="" people="" israel="" r.="" -andwe="" pray="" that?.thou="" wilt="" grant="" :untoi="" us="" drufhrt="" wq="" may="" mourn="" him="" in="" a:="" proper="" jolpcfipptabies.manpei;="" while="" realizo="" mi.pm="" losja.gxfiatwamoy="" rejoice,="" ourfqthor,="" jqhe="" aqti.cipatiqn="" fhat.jpy="" whjch="" heex-<="" -iljpwrcp?,="" :with,thy="" geryanfj="" joseph="" #vlfyr,um.and.="" timso="" who="" gone="" befprq="" v7="" thpjspqapj="" thof="" iaithfnl,="" ,e,ven="" abraham="" pur="" ancestor,="" ,q="" lord,="" wit="" thou="" jet="" prqm-="" ised="" blessed="" influqhqq="" pftky="" holy="" spirit,="" "and="" .presence="" pf="" their="" spirits="" attend="" up-="" '‘'="" .on="" bk="" to-day,="" dnd="" hq="" fejt="" this="" whole="" mul-="" tifliqo,5="" ‘="" giv6'hpf&‘u="" th'ose="" sincere="" in-="" “teijigen.t'jbys.="" gospel="" shaillift="" oursonls="" abovo="" .dv6fy="" earthly="" carp="" ana="" gor-="" v,'towj="">people. And we forget not to seek thy
blessings upon thy aged servants, now ven-
erable in years, the brothers of thy servant
Brigham. May they, our Father, be able
to emulate most abundantly the worthy and
glorious career of the honored dead whose
remains are now before us. And we pray
that thou wilt lengthen out their days until
their souls shall be satisfied with this life,
and then that they may be gathered to the
glorious host that shall attend to wait upon
them.
	We beseech of thee, our Father, to re-
member thy scattered Israel in every part;
the House of Judah, the Ten Tribes wherev-
er they may be, and the scattered remnants
of this land in which we are permitted to
dwell. May thy word go forth, thy spirit
be diffused, and the power of the priest-
hood that thou hast restored rest not until
Israel be gathered, Zion redeemed, Jeru-
salem built up and thy glory restored to
<fvery midst="" have="" been="" vanquished="" by="" the="" o:!="" power="" of="" faith="" that="" implanted="" in1="" bosoms="" -nof'="" thy="" saints,="" i="" we="" thank="" tlifee="" for="" great,="" riltgood="" be="" has-been="" permitted="" to="" doob="" (the="" earth="" and="" especially:="" people="" israel="" r.="" -andwe="" pray="" that?.thou="" wilt="" grant="" :untoi="" us="" drufhrt="" wq="" may="" mourn="" him="" in="" a:="" proper="" jolpcfipptabies.manpei;="" while="" realizo="" mi.pm="" losja.gxfiatwamoy="" rejoice,="" ourfqthor,="" jqhe="" aqti.cipatiqn="" fhat.jpy="" whjch="" heex-<="" -iljpwrcp?,="" :with,thy="" geryanfj="" joseph="" #vlfyr,um.and.="" timso="" who="" gone="" befprq="" v7="" thpjspqapj="" thof="" iaithfnl,="" ,e,ven="" abraham="" pur="" ancestor,="" ,q="" lord,="" wit="" thou="" jet="" prqm-="" ised="" blessed="" influqhqq="" pftky="" holy="" spirit,="" "and="" .presence="" pf="" their="" spirits="" attend="" up-="" '‘'="" .on="" bk="" to-day,="" dnd="" hq="" fejt="" this="" whole="" mul-="" tifliqo,5="" ‘="" giv6'hpf&‘u="" th'ose="" sincere="" in-="" “teijigen.t'jbys.="" gospel="" shaillift="" oursonls="" abovo="" .dv6fy="" earthly="" carp="" ana="" gor-="" v,'towj="">earth.
	We ask thee, holy Father, to receive our
thanks this morning, for we acknowledge
with gratitude the peace that thou hast
blessed us with. Although thou didst suf-
fer thy servant to be imprisoned for the
truth's sake, thou didst preserve his life
until he could lay it down in peace in his
own house and habitation, in the midst of
his loving family and devoted friends. Be
pleased to continue peace upon our borders
and in our midst, preserve us from the hor-

[Column 3]
rors of war, for thou hast promised to fight
the battles of thy people. While hundreds
of thousands are falling by pestilence in
other lands, here in our valleys, once a wild
desert but now the home of thy saints,
abounds plenty, plenty for man and for
beast. For all this we thank and praise
thee O thou God of Hosts.
	Bless, O Lord, thy servants who may
speak on this occasion. May their words
be full of consolation and comfort to all
those who mourn for we are all mourners
before thee this day. And may we who have
been co-workers with thy servant, so live
and so labor that we may come to a peace-
ful and happy end, and our last days be like
his, that we may rejoice in our labors know-
ing that they are acceptably done. We
dedicate ourselves, our families, this people
and work unto thee the Lord our God; it is
thine, and we are thine. Direct all things
to the glory of thy name, and unto Thee
shall be all praise, glory and honor, through
Jesus Christ, our Redeemer. Amen.
<fvery midst="" have="" been="" vanquished="" by="" the="" o:!="" power="" of="" faith="" that="" implanted="" in1="" bosoms="" -nof'="" thy="" saints,="" i="" we="" thank="" tlifee="" for="" great,="" riltgood="" be="" has-been="" permitted="" to="" doob="" (the="" earth="" and="" especially:="" people="" israel="" r.="" -andwe="" pray="" that?.thou="" wilt="" grant="" :untoi="" us="" drufhrt="" wq="" may="" mourn="" him="" in="" a:="" proper="" jolpcfipptabies.manpei;="" while="" realizo="" mi.pm="" losja.gxfiatwamoy="" rejoice,="" ourfqthor,="" jqhe="" aqti.cipatiqn="" fhat.jpy="" whjch="" heex-<="" -iljpwrcp?,="" :with,thy="" geryanfj="" joseph="" #vlfyr,um.and.="" timso="" who="" gone="" befprq="" v7="" thpjspqapj="" thof="" iaithfnl,="" ,e,ven="" abraham="" pur="" ancestor,="" ,q="" lord,="" wit="" thou="" jet="" prqm-="" ised="" blessed="" influqhqq="" pftky="" holy="" spirit,="" "and="" .presence="" pf="" their="" spirits="" attend="" up-="" '‘'="" .on="" bk="" to-day,="" dnd="" hq="" fejt="" this="" whole="" mul-="" tifliqo,5="" ‘="" giv6'hpf&‘u="" th'ose="" sincere="" in-="" “teijigen.t'jbys.="" gospel="" shaillift="" oursonls="" abovo="" .dv6fy="" earthly="" carp="" ana="" gor-="" v,'towj="">	The benediction was pronounced as fol-
lows, by
		ELDER ORSON HYDE.
	Our Father who art in heaven, in the
name of thy son Jesus Christ, we tender
unto thee the gratitude of our hearts for
the peaceful influence that has pervaded
our hearts on the present occasion. We
thank thee for this lovely day and the sun
that shines so brightly over our heads,
while the earth is illuminated with a grand
display of thy glory.
	We, our Father, in solemn assembly,
have met to pay our last respects unto our
departed friend and brother, President
Brigham Young. We ask thee, O Lord
our God, to seal the instructions upon our
hearts, and may the words which have fall-
en from the lips of thy servants on this oc-
casion find place in the hearts of the hon-
est and the upright, those who desire eter-
nal life in thy kingdom.
	Grant, heavenly Father, to bless and com-
fort the family of thy servant who has left
us; may they find favor with thee; may the
Spirit of the Lord breathe upon them, and
bring them the balm of joy and comfort,
opening wide the door for immortality and
a glorious re-union with him in a time yet
to come.
	Bless, we pray, all the saints here assem-
bled; let thy good Spirit rest upon all—
that we may feel to renew our energies and
that we may form renewed determinations
to serve and honor the Lord our God, and 
to carry out the instructions we have heard
this day, and not only on this occasion, but
on former occasions, that we may become
molded and fashioned unto thine image
and likeness; that when the time comes
when we shall be called hence, we may be
prepared and qualified to mingle our voices
and join with those who have gone before
us; where we can behold our leaders and
join with them in songs of praise to God
and the Lamb. We beseech thee, our Fa-
ther, to let thy blessing rest down upon this
attentive assembly, and upon the Priest-
hood here assembled. And while we con-
template that probably only one-tenth of
the people of this region are here assem-
bled, we pray that our friends may be in-
spired with the spirit of intelligence to ex-
tend the same to all that are not present on 
this occasion.
	O Lord, our God, bless thy people, con-
found everything opposed to them; and let
the truth prevail, let Zion arise and let her
light shine like the rising sun, that she
may fill the whole earth.
	We ask thee, our Father, to remember


those also who have not yet joined the
Saints of the Most High; remember them
in kindness that they may be induced to
abandon their hostility, and finally be
brought into alliance with thy church, that
they too may ascribe honor and praise to
God and the Lamb. And let thy blessing
rest upon all. Forgive our sins; guide us
by thy good spirit in the ways of life.
	We are thankful, our Father, that thy
servant who has gone before us is one that
has fought a good fight, finished his course,
and kept the faith. Help us all to do like-
wise, and thy name shall have the honor
and glory, both now and forever. Amen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the Exponent.
THE AGED COUPLE.

BY MRS. E. J. HARDING.

	Oh, Alice, dear girl, say it not! Say not
that they are homely, but rather how beau-
tiful in their helplessness. They once were
like you—young, loving, hopeful; but time
and sorrow have left their sure, sad trace.
	The deeply furrowed brow, the silvered
hair, and the stooped form, all speak to us
of how much they have suffered, have en-
dured through these long, weary years of
life's struggle. Theirs has been a rough
sea; rude breakers have assailed them,
wave after wave of sorrow and care have
swept over them, and they have at times
almost stranded, and but for the lingering
beam of hope sent by Him who rules the
tempest and the wave, they must have long
since sank to rise no more.
	Weep on, dear Alice, I divine your feel-
ings; and how refreshing the sight of your
pearly tears! but this their hour is not yours.
May the chilling blast never reach you, and
time, the destroyer, deal with you gently.
	Look upon them again. See their coun-
tenances wear a calm, patient, and resigned
expression. They have heard the blessed
promise: "There is rest for the weary!"
	Oh! Alice, assist the tottering feet of the
aged, soothe them by the fondest affection,
and let them not be the object of thy con-
tempt. They are as helpless as children.
Their feeble step is trembling on the brink
of the grave, but their hopes may be firmly
placed on the better shore which lies be-
yond. Their eyes are dim with suffering
and tears, but their spiritual vision may be
contemplating the gradual unfolding of the
gates of rest.
	Remember, my dear Alice, that when
the springtime of life is past, it returns no
more. As the cold, dark winter of age
comes on, this world affords but the frigid
prospect of the interminable night of death.
And how short is the season of youthful
bloom; how soon the flush of beauty fades,
and how transient the smiles of lovely
flowers. It is thus with human life. Time
scathes its loveliest prospect, and draws
over its blooming gardens the faded hue of
decaying nature, or the pall of death. But
we are saved the despair to which these
gloomy reflections would lead us, by the
prospect of having vernal eternal bowers.
Yes, we are permitted to hope that the
springtime of heaven will give eternal
youth to our decaying frames, and light up
our spirits with the exhilarating joys of
holy songs.
	I have often thought how beautiful was
infancy; in its innocent purity, and youth
with the beautiful glow of health upon the
cheek, the warm, glowing heart full of joy-
ful anticipation; of middle age, full of in-
creasing interest, with a healthful, free, ex-
panding mind, a heart filled with generous


impulses; but what is more lovely, or to be
more reverenced, than extreme age? And,
my dear Alice, I would have thee this re-
member, to ever be kind to the aged; to
find it a dear pleasure to soothe their rug-
ged pathway, to light them by cheerful and
hopeful words to a joyous life in store, and
by every kind attention cause them to feel
that they have not lived in vain, but that
their unremitting care and wise teachings
are remembered, and lovingly treasured.
	Ogden, Aug. 23, 1877.


[Column 1]

THE PRINCE OF WALES AT SAND-
RINGHAM, NEAR LYNN.

(From the World.)

	Sandringham is no stately palace, where
comfort is a secondary consideration to
splendor, where sumptuous suites of apart-
ments bear the chilling impress of being
uninhabited and uninhabitable; but a veri-
table English home, designed not for show,
but to be lived in—every detail eloquent of
unostentatious taste and of refined domes-
ticity. The home-savor of Sandringham
begins from the doorstep, for there is no
formal entrance-hall. The vestibule is sim-
ply a part and portion of the great saloon
which may be called the family parlor of
the house. From the saloon opens the busi-
ness room, where the Prince transacts his
correspondence, gives interviews to other
than social visitors, sees his tenants on
questions of improvements, and gives his
personal instructions to land-steward, gar-
dener and head-keeper. On the right of the
vestibule, as one enters the house, lies the
library; a pleasant room in blue and light
oak, whose shelves are filled with books
belonging almost exclusively to the depart-
ments of history and travels. A whole
compartment is devoted to works on the
Crimean War, another to books—many of
which are hard reading enough—on India,
both British and native. Through the
equerry's room, the next of the suite, is
reached the second library, which might
appropriately bear the name of the "Serapis
Room," for it is full of the belongings of
his Royal Highness during his voyagings
in the big troopship. This room opens into
the vestibule of the garden entrance, which,
by reason of its proximity to the drawing-
room, is always used on ball nights. From
the main corridor stretching to the great
staircase there open on the right the princi-
pal reception rooms; but before these are
reached there is passed the Prince's private
morning-room, a family room pure and sim-
ple. From this room a door opens into the
ante-room of the great drawing-room; a 
pretty little apartment in French grey.
The principal drawing-room, like all the
rooms on this side of the house, looks out
into the park across the flower beds, water,
and rockery, to where the antlered red
deer are browsing in the beech glades. It
is a room of fine proportions, of whose walls
the prevalent tint is a pale salmon color;
and its fixed decorations are studiously sim-
ple, consisting merely of a few mirrors
placed panelwise, some floral mouldings, a
painting ceiling, and a single group of statu-
ary. The sweet scent of spring-violets
nestling among moss perfumes the air, and 
there are flowers everywhere; indeed, the
whole house is a floral bower, for the Prin-
cess is passionately fond of flowers, and lit-
erally lives among them. A door-window
of the drawing-room "gives" on a small
domed conservatory projecting from the
garden front of the house. "En suite"with the drawing-room is the dining room,

[Column 2]

a warm tinted, genial looking room, sug
gestive of comfort in its every item. From
the dining room the way leads through a
"corridor of weapons," where the "white
arms" of all ages are arranged in glass-
fronted cabinets on the walls, to the billiard-
room. The annexed smoking-room is the
ante-chamber to the long vista of the bowl-
ing-alley, lighted both from sides and roof,
with raised seats at the upper end, whence
ladies may look down on the tournament of
their squires. During the shooting-season
the routine of Sandringham life has for va-
riety little other than the change of the
scene of the sport. The start is at half past
ten; and if there is any distance to be trav-
ersed, the gunners travel to the scene of
their sport in the char-a-bane and waggonette.
The Sandringham corps of beaters is forty
strong, each member wearing a Norfolk
smock-frock of brown fustian, with a num-
ber on a red badge. Luncheon is at two,
served in a marquee in some convenient
spot, and at this meal the Princess joins the
gentlement, with the ladies who are her
guests. From six to half-past seven the
Prince addresses himself to correspondence
and business; but indeed there is hardly an
hour of the day which his Royal Highness
devotes wholly to pleasure, for his land-
steward generally accompanies him in
shooting excursions, at hand to note sugges-
tions as to improvements which may occur
to the Prince as he tramps over the estate.
It is reputed of the Prince in Norfolk that
no landlord in the county is better acquaint-
ed with the details of his property, and
with a greater zeal for its improvement.
The Sunday is the most characteristic day
of the week at Sandringham. The Princess
drives to Mr. Onslow's little church across
the park; the Prince with his male guests
walks, and after service walks back through
the grounds, intent on pointing out his im-
provements. After luncheon the whole
house-party walk out past the "bachelor's"
cottage to the kennels. A flock of foreign
goats immediately beset the Princess, wise
in their generation and in the full expect-
ancy of tit-bits. There is a leisurely stroll
through the pheasantry and along the
snugly-sheltered cages in which are housed
the Nepaulese birds, which were one of Sir
Jung Bahadoor's gifts. The bear-pit looked
down into, and the bears coaxed to climb
the pole; the dogs claim attention. The
monkey-house cannot be passed over; and
then the party, with multitudinons dogs as
"eclaireurs," stroll away to the gardens.
There is no lack of occupation for days not
devoted to sport. The laboring folk in
Sandringham parish having been all com-
fortably housed in model cottages, the refor-
mation of the cottage architecture and ac-
commodation of the parish at Wolferton—
an outlying portion of the estate—is now
steadily being proceeded with, under the
personal supervision of the Princess her-
self, who sets her face determinedly against
defective and unpicturesque homes for her
laboring people. At a farm in his own
hands in Wolferton parish the Prince has
some fine pedrigree short-horn stock, and is
gradually rearing a herd whose influence
must benefit his neighbors, without the ex-
penditure of sensational prices for the fancy
of a particular strain.


MRS. Gov. Van Zandt, of Rhode Island,
is a daughter of the late Albert G. Green,
who wrote that excessively picturesque
chant, "Old Grimes is Dead." Mrs. Van
Zandt is known for her zeal in charitable
projects.


64		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EXTRACTS FROM A LETTER FROM
	MRS. JANE E. MOLEN TO HER
	MOTHER.

					LAIE OAHU, July 4.
	This is a day of pleasure at home I pre-
sume, but here I am in school, and as my
pupils are writing their examples I thought
I would commence a letter to my dear
parent, for my mind is with you to-day.
I went across the yard previous to coming
to school to tell the sisters it was the Fourth
of July, they were quite astonished, but all
days are alike here. I try to be happy at
all times even when Santipedes give me a
visit. I was awakened last night at two
o'clock with a large Santipede being in my
bosom. I knew what it was although I was
hardly awake; I jerked it out and in so do-
ing it bit me just above my right breast
and on my right hand, I sprang from the
bed, being fully awakened by this time,
and applied ammonia to the bitten parts,
but got very little rest the remainder of the
night as they were very painful.
					July 24, 4 o'clock
	We have feasted on the rich things of
Laie to-day, beef, poi and potatoes which
were really nice. The natives have done
their best to-day, all came out in white.
The procession was formed just outside the
yard, they marched up in front of our
house and gave three cheers, placing us
white people in front next the band. They
really looked nice, twenty-four young la-
dies dressed in white, with wreaths around
their heads and necks; twenty-four young
men; twenty-four elderly ladies in white
dresses with lays, and twenty-four elderly
men. The house was decorated beautifully.
It takes this people to ornament a room;
besides the things grow here to do it with.
The words written over the stand were,
Aloha na ah chee, July 24th A. D. 1847, the
letters composed of flowers, also "WE OF
LAIE, HAVE MUCH LOVE FOR THE PIO-
NEERS OF 1847.


AMERICAN FORK BRANCH DESERET
		SILK ASSOCIATION.

	A meeting of the Utah County Branch of
the Deseret Silk Association was held at
the meeting house, American Fork City,
Saturday, Aug. 25th, as per notice given.
Quite a number of the silk raisers were
present, and considerable business enacted
pertaining to the organization. Constitu-
tion and by-laws were adopted for the gov-
ernment of the Association, and upon mo-
tion of D. Graves, Esq., it was carried
that the same be printed in due form, to be
distributed among the members. It was
suggested by S. Cornaby, Esq., that items
be kept of the success and failures in the
enterprise, for future information. Bishop
L. E. Harrington was present and aided
materially in the transaction of business.
		Respectfully.
			EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
							Secretary.


MAKING BREAD.

	Farmers will be interested to know that
great changes are being made in bread-mak-
ing. For years physicians have traced dis-
eases of the alimentary canal and its con-
nections to our systems of milling wheat
and to the puffy style of baking. The pas-
sion for white flour obliges the miller to give
to cattle the most nutritious part of the
berry—viz: the gluten or muscle-making
element, without which our common bread
loses two thirds of its value, and imposes
on the digestive organs double duty. Min-


nesota takes the lead, in the reformation.
More than twenty mills are now bleaching
the gluten, so that the flour shows very lit-
tle discoloration. It is claimed that one-
third more water is absorbed and baking is
made easy. Every one admits that the
bread is much sweeter; and dyspeptics find
permanent relief. Thus many mills attest
the growing popularity of this new flour,
and ought to commend the system to Cali-
fornians. Gluten flour is not bran flour,
though bran as now milled includes the
gluten. The new system separates the
bran from the berry; leaving the gluten.
The bran is a mere skin of silex. It is in-
digestible, and therefore bran bread fails of
its purpose.
	The French Government has for fifteen
years past prepared the army and navy
bread by a process kept secret, but effec-
tively it is the same. Now the United
States Government has adopted a system,
which though claiming to be American, is
supposed to be French. It commends itself
to our farmers, because every family can
make its own flour and get bread of greater
sweetness and higher nutriment. The
grain is first put into hot water and cleans-
ed. Then it is allowed to remain immersed
seven hours, or sufficiently to so loosen the
filmy corslets of the berry that it is readily
detatched by agitation and slight friction.
The gluten loses much of its dark shade
without loss of substance. The whole mass
being now swelled is passed through rollers,
which reduce it to pulp ready for the
dough trough. Its subsequent treatment
follows the usual routine. There is in
Chicago a large mill making "attrition
flour," which serves the same purpose.
"Instead of mill-stones taking the very
life out of wheat by close grinding and
heating," fast revolving blades receive the
streaming grain, which in its passage is in-
stantly pulverized without heating. Pre-
viously to this the berry is decorticated
without being robbed of its gluten. We
received a barrel of attrition flour from
Chicago and fully tested it. It required
some change in mixing the dough, but for
sweetness of bread and ease of digestion,
it surpassed all other bread; and certainly
it made one-fourth more bread than cus-
tomary.—San Francisco Chronicle.


[Column 1]
VISITORS TO CONFERENCE
	Amply Repaid by Visiting
TEASDEL,
			FOR
	FAMILY SUPPLIES
			FOR
FALL AND WINTER WEAR.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

	NOTICE TO THE LADIES.
THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
	DRY GOODS,
					IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
	Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

[Column 2]
WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
					SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
				LADIES' JACKETS,
					STOCKINGS, YARNS,
						SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
							LATEST STYLES OF
								FANCY WORSTED TIES,
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of Jamaica Ginger
HOME-MADE WOOLEN BATTING,
	NEW ZEALAND FLAX SEED.

DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

