VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, NOVEMBER 1, 1877.	No. 11.﻿


TRIBUTE TO PRESIDENT BRIGHAM
YOUNG.

Sleep for the weary eyes,
	Peace for the throbbing breast,
We all must follow bye and bye!
	Then rest, beloved rest.
Beloved of thy people, sleep!
	No cares disturb thy breast,
Well hast thou earned thy calm respose
	Why should we grudge thy rest?

All grief is selfish, and we mourn
	Our councelor and guide;
The poor man's friend, the friend of truth,
	The Leader, proved and tried.
Thank God! He sleeps in peace;
	The last glance of his eyes
Rested on those he loved; his own
	Recieved his latest sighs.
Farewell! 'tis evening now
	Soon will the darkness flee.
How sweet to meet in the dawning light
	From sin and sorrow free.

	AGNES S. ARMSTRONG.


WE ALL DO FADE AS THE LEAF.

Oh! see but the leaves that around us are falling
From boughs, where so late they were blooming and gay.
And tell me if they are not silently calling
On us to prepare for a like coming day.

Oh! I weep pretty leaves, that thy doom is recorded,
That death, cruel Spoiler has robbed me of thee:
But the lesson thou breathest shall not be unhoarded
But stor'd in my heart shall thy whisperings be.

Adieu too, ye flowers—in love were ye tended,
And repaid me in sweetness in beauty and health,
But now to the tomb are thy beauties descended,
And I mourn as a miser the loss of his wealth.

But let me reflect on the lesson you're giving.
That the summer of life passes quickly away
And the plants that are human and beauteous, and living
Must soon feel the blights of a wintry day! 

And that we like the leaves, and the flowers, must die
And repose for a time in the bosom of earth,
But rise when the Spring that's eternal on high
Shall summon the just to a heavenly birth.

In that glorious Land is the "Tree of Life" waving
And the rose without thorns undecaying shall bloom,
There man—(his Redeemer's atonement all saving)
Transplanted shall be from the jaws of the Tomb.

	HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. City, Dec. 1st, 1876.


[Column 1]

AFTER LONG YEARS.

LETTER I.

	Memory, thy graceful mantle gently falls
		Enwrapping me in some lone dreamy hour,
	And its enchantment ev'ry sense enthralls,
		And holds me spell-bound with its mystic pow'r

	Memory paints its images of the past.
The long years bring up their retinue of
varied scenes, and multifarious changes,
and anon we catch a glimpse of beautiful
coloring like a picture in the mind, and we 
touch it up with the latent recollections we
can awaken; remembrances of our former
lives recorded on memory's tablets, and hid-
den away with other treasures in the dim
and dusty corners of our brain, without
thought of their ever being brought to the
light. It is thus with me to-day. I am
looking down the long vista of the years
and I see a shadowy panorama stretching
away in the distance, disclosing to view as
it slowly unrolls familiar scenes and times
and places. What is it touches us acutely

[Column 2]

in glancing backward, in recalling former
incidents, localities and surroundings. Why
should one realize such exquisite tender-
ness in musing upon the pictures memory
opens up to view; pictures long buried out
of sight, only recalled now and then when
some sudden flash of "the light of other
days" flits across the tablets of the mind.
These impressions, so vivid, have been
stamped not only upon the mind but the
heart; and I believe it is this that causes us
to feel such affectional emotions when we
gaze backward into the long corridors which
time has defaced, and were it not for some
deeply engraven impressions would have
almost obliterated.
	Amid the shades of the past I distinguish
the outline of a form perfect in contour, and
yet so dim and indistinctly defined that it is
scarcely recognizable, only by the general
bearing and the familiar smile that recalls
so many pleasant yet sorrowful things, that
I pause and wonder and contemplate the
changes that have transpired since she
whose image I have ever so fondly cherish-
ed was laid beneath the sod, far from her
home, a victim of the cruel persecution of
a cruel mob in our boasted land of freedom
and religious liberty. Oh how my heart
thrills with indefinable emotions as I see in
fancy and vividly recall the scenes of that
terrible exodus.
	My heart bleeds afresh at this dark and
dismal draping of a part of the life-picture
that hangs in the walls of the old time-hon-
ored edifice which has been gradually grow-
ing and increasing with the years that have
passed. Sometimes smoothly and in harmo-
nious arrangement, sometimes the roughest
stones thrown in with the most awkward
handling, and with a taste and style neither
lofty, or elegant; but I would fain trust they
did not weaken the structure which has
been the work of a life-time. Perchance
in the years that follow we may be able to
polish up and refine some things that have
been left in a rough and unfinished state;
at least it is pleasant to think so. And we
know that if we are now better supplied
with materials for building, though we can-
not obliterate the past, yet we may add
something that will reflect credit upon it,
we may ornament the walls, and adorn it
artistically if we have laid a solid founda-
tion, and we may add to its size heighth
and proportions in such a way as to finish it
up symmetrically.
	But the pictures hung upon its walls
though dimmed and blurred by age we can-
not altogether cover up. Be they disagree-
able ones even there they still hang, as re-
minders of incidents which touch us to the
very centre of our being. I know the world
tells us to shut out the past, to bury it for-
ever, but I think it is sometimes well enough
to catch a glimpse even of unpleasantness.
It is usual to refer to the happy days of
childhood and the scenes that seem bright-
est from the distance, but they too were
made up of storms and sunshine; as well as
those of after years.
	I will say to the readers of our home pa-
per this is the beginning of a series of let-
ters, and if you like them yon shall hear of-
ten from,
	AUNT EM.


NOTES AND NEWS.

CONSTITUTION OF THE CITIZENS
SUFFRAGE ASSOCIATION.

	ARTICLE I. The object of this Associa-
tion shall be to secure to all citizens of prop-
er age, without distinction of sex the right
to vote, and with this end in view, to pro-
cure and distribute tracts, documents and 
other printed matter; to prepare and circu-
late petitions to the Legislature and to Con-
gress; to employ lecturers and agents; hold
meetings, and take any other measures that 
may be deemed proper by the Association.
	ARTICLE II. There shall be at least one
stated public meeting each month.
	ARTICLE III. The officers shall be a Pres-
ident, Secretary, and Treasurer, who shall
perform the duties usually assigned to such
offices. They shall report monthly the du-
ties performed by them.
	ARTICLE IV. Any business coming be-
fore the Association requiring action, shall
be referred to a special committee.
	All committees shall be composed of the
mover, with the right on the part of the
mover to name the remainder of the com-
mittee, subject to the action of the Asso-
ciation.
	ARTICLE V. The President and Secretary
at the written request of any five members
of the Association, shall call special meet-
ings, but if the Association at such meet-
ings shall consider the reason for holding
them insufficient, the callers shall be respon-
sible for the expenses.
	ARTICLE VI. Any person may become a 
member of the Association by assenting to
the above and contributing annually to the
funds.
	ARTICLE VII. This Constitution may be
amended at any meeting by a vote of two-
thirds of the members present, provided
that one month's notice of the proposed
change has been given.
	The regular meetings are held at present
at the President's E. M. Davis, Walnut
Place, 205, Philadelphia, on the third
Wednesday of each month at 3 P. M.
	We commend the simplicity of our or-
ganization. If you can find four others to
join you, form an association. Send us the
name you adopt that we may co-operate
with you, and send you our publications.
	SUSAN B. ANTHONY lectured in Toledo,
September 6, on "Working Men and their
Strikes." She proceeded directly to Colora-
do, and give the remainder of the month of
September to the woman suffrage campaign
in that State. Miss Anthony went without
money and without price, wholly at her
own expense, with the exception of a small
contribution by two excellent friends, who,
hearing that she was going, sent her, one
five dollars and the other, ten. She had
a most fatiguing journey, speaking eve-
ry night, with the exception of three,
from September 11 to the 30th.
	THE CREMATED remains of Dr. Winslow,
who lately died at Salt Lake, have been re-
ceived and interred at Mt. Aubnrn, accord-
ing to his last will and testament.—"The
Watchman."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	WELLSVILLE, CACHE Co., Oct. 15, '77.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We send you a report of our Ninth Annual
meeting:
		TREASURER'S REPORT.
	Donations................................	$51 36
	Quilting...................................	  11 85
	Wheat stored for Zion, 30 bushels.
	Given to the needy...................	  57 10
	Given for Relief Society House,	  26 40
	Cash and store order in treasury... 	    9 65
	Merchandise............................. 	  61 55
	In Cash Mercantile Store..........	  22 50
	In Co-op Relief Store...............	  46 00
	Interest on shares in R. S. Store...	  17 00
	A good spirit prevailed in the meeting.
We are striving to do something for the
cause of Zion and the more united we are
the more good we can do. We were visit-
ed with the grasshoppers this year, but ex-
pect to respond to the counsel of our late
and esteemed President Brigham Young,
and do more in storing up grain another
season. Our sincere prayer is for the pros-
perity of Zion in all her institutions and
our desire is to be co-workers in her enter-
prises. We read the EXPONENT with in-
terest,	LUCY E. HASLAM, Sec'y.
		ELIZABETH MAUGHAN. Treas.

	SPRINGVILLE, Oct. 2nd, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Ever feeling desirous to mingle our
voices, and unite our efforts with our sister
societies, we the Relief Society of Spring-
ville send you these few lines. We are
trying to do all in our power to help the
cause of truth, to minister to the wants of
the poor, and the needy among us, to help
to build Temples, and in our feeble way as-
sist in every good work. The EXPONENT
is ever a welcome messenger among us, and
while reading the many interesting ac-
counts of the various works in home in-
dustries, the silk culture, and other de-
partments, in the different societies, we al-
ways feel to renew our diligence in relation
to every thing towards practically sustain-
ing ourselves; and feel like asking our
Heavenly Father to hasten the day when
the Latter-day Saints are entirely free,
when the last fetters shall be loosed that
bind us to Babylon.
	We remain your sisters in the Gospel,
		MARY E. WHITING, Sec'y.
		MARY BATE, Assistant Sec'y.


[Column 1]

REPORT OF FIRST WARD SPECIAL
MEETING—ASSOCIATION.

CONTINUED.

	Elder Wilford Woodruff: "I feel willing
to answer to the call of the sisters to make
a few remarks on this occasion, for it is a
subject that I feel greatly interested in, be-
cause I feel that it will have a good result.
The Relief Societies have had their growth,
and the Mutual Improvement Associations
have the same experience before them, and
I am satisfied that a great deal of good will
result from these Associations; every per-
son has an influence either for good or evil.
The Relief Societies were organized by Jo-
seph Smith, and a great deal of responsibil-
ity rests upon them. They should include
every mother in Israel. The Young La-
dies Improvement Association should in-
clude every young lady in Israel, and the
Young Men's Improvement Associations
should include every young man in Israel.
There are responsibilities resting upon the
sisters in many things, that it would be im-

[Column 2]

possible for men to accomplish. I was very
much pleased with a few remarks of Sister
Zina's, and I feel to back up the sentiments
she has expressed in regard to dress; the
sister that has got independence of mind
enough to walk these streets in a plain,
modest dress, has got something to be proud
of and certainly the sisters can have some
influence in regard to fashions, and I hope
these improvement associations will have a
great influence. We are not always going
to be supplied by Babylon for Babylon is go-
ing to fall. These associations all through
the northern and southern settlements are
instituting straw-braiding, hat-making, and
many other industries that are very com-
mendable The young have got to take our
places for the old are passing away, and I
pray God to bless every effort for good.
We are going to have a famine, and if I
had half a million of dollars I would buy
up all the wheat I could with it, and store
it away. Elder Woodruff then related his
experience at St. George in effecting a re-
formation among the young. The young
ladies should not have their minds full of
novels and fashions but should begin to feel
the importance of better things. There is
a great work resting upon us temporally
and spiritually. There are millions of dol-
lars in the air that can be brought forth in
silk, and we can make not only what we
want to wear but could export a great deal,
and the streets and spare land should all be
full of mulberry trees. The heavens are
full of inspiration and they are pouring it
out upon the saints. President Young liv-
ed to see a Temple dedicated to God and
he administered in it. He selected the
spot for other temples and set everything
in order in the church. Let us help build
these temples for there are thousands of
people that can not be liberated nntil some
one does the work for them. We cannot
afford to lose our salvation for the things of
this world, and whatever you can do in
these associations will be credited to you
and you will receive the reward. I feel to
say God bless you, and God bless these sis-
ters that are visiting you for they are in-
deed mothers in Israel."
	Mrs. P. Woodruff: I am pleased to see
you gathered together as you are for a good
purpose, and I feel to say to you be diligent,
be faithful, and strive to help, if it is only
in a little degree, towards building the tem-
ples, and may the teachings that we have
received to-day sink deep into your hearts
and do you good. God bless you, Amen.
	Mrs. Zina Williams. I feel that your lit-
tle association here is in a very flourishing
condition, and is doing much good. When
I see the young ladies that attend these as-
sociations and those who do not it reminds
me of going into an orchard; we find some
trees that are filled with verdure, and ap-
pear beautiful to the eye, but when we
come to examine them, there is no fruit on
them, but those who attend these meetings
are like those trees which are filled with
fruit. I pray God to bless us that we may
be bright and shining lights in the kingdom
of heaven.
	Mrs. E. Thomas: I know that this is the
church and kingdom of God, and I know
that the spirit of God is here to-day, and I
feel that your association has improved
very much since its organization, I love
the associations of the young and I ask
God to bless this association and all organi-
zations that are trying to do. good. 
	Mrs. W. East: We cannot be too thank-
ful for the principles of the Gospel, among
which plural marriage is one of the most
glorious. The God that we serve is great
and mighty, and is able to build up or

[Column 3]

throw down. God sees and knows all
things and will reward us according to our
work. May God add his blessing is my
prayer.
	Mrs. Martha Young: In regard to the
fashions, I know that it is the mind and
will of God that we should dress plainly,
and I hope the young ladies will not follow
the fashions of the world. It is necessary
that we should lay up every cent that we
can for building temples, and do all we can
in this kingdom for it is all for our benefit
both here and hereaftee.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney exhorted the sisters to
do all in their power towards the silk busi-
ness and said: "Joseph Smith did a great
work, Brigham Young did a greater for he
had more time and assistance, and the
Twelve will do a still greater work, for the
snow ball gathers strength as it rolls. She
also made other excellent remarks on the
Church Library and other subjects of inter-
est.
	Miss E. R. Snow announced a change in
the management of the Woman's Store on
account of its growth, and stated that it
was not "going under" as some had
thought, but was doing well.
	Elder Joseph Taylor then expressed his
pleasure in meeting with the sisters and
hearing their remarks, and gave some very
excellent instruction in regard to home
manufacture and the duties of women, and
commended the sisters in the silk business,
and in storing up grain.
	Bishop Joseph Warburton endorsed all
that had been said. Made a few remarks
in regard to the temple and prayed God to
bless us.
	President Mrs. Sarah Graham then made
a few closing remarks, after which the
meeting was adjourned.
	AMY ADAMS, Secretary.


﻿NOTES AND NEWS.

	APROPOS OF the reported projected mar-
riage of King Alfonso, of Spain, with one
of the daughters of the Duc de Montpen-
sier, it may be of interest to say something
of the Orleans family. This family now
consists of 29 individuals.
	The eldest is the Duc de Nemours, 63
years old, and who has four children: (1) The
Comte d’Eu, married to the daughter of
Pedro II., Emperor of Brazil, and has one
child. (2) Le Due d’Aleneon, born in 1844,
married to the sister of the Empress of
Austria, and has two children, the Princess
Louise, and the Prince Jean Emmanuel.
(3) The Princess Marguerite, born in 1848,
married to Prince Czartoryski. And (4) The
Princess Blanche, born in 1857.
	The Prince de Joinville, born in 1818, has
two children: (1) The Princess Francoise,
married to her cousin, the Duc de Chartres.
And (2) the Duc de Penthiere, born in 1845.
	The Duc de Aumale has no children.
	The Duc de Montpensier has six children:
(1) The Princess Isabelle, married to the
Comte de Paris. (2) The Princess Amelie.
(3) The Princess Christine. (4) Prince
Ferdinand. (5) The Princess Mercedes, the
future Queen of Spain, born in 1860. And
(6) Prince Antoine.	
	Louis Philippe Comte de Paris, born in
1838, has three children: (1) The Princess
Amelie. (2) Prince Louis Philippe. And
(3) the Princess Helene.
	Robert d’Orleans Duc de Chartres, has four
children: (1) The Princess Marie. (2) Prince
Robert. (3) Prince Henri. And (4) the
Princess Marguerite.
	There is besides the Princess Clementine,
Duchess of Saxe Coburg Gotha, born in
1817.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		83


THROUGH THE STORM.

O! winter will thou never go?
My heart kept sighing sad and low.
I thought of that home far away,
Where loved ones waited day by day
For tidings that my willing feet,
Were coming, coming, true and fleet.

Yet ever, while mine eager eyes,
Appealing searched the heavenly skies;
Fell down the softly whispering snow,
So fair, yet sternly answering no.
No gleam of blue shone overhead,
But falling flakes and sky of lead.

While still the spring days came and went,
And I imprisoned, ill-content,
Beside my casement watched the snow,
Heart-hungry, sighing still to go;
Gleaning no hope from out the skies;
A lark's song! sweet and clear did rise.

No plaintive note, but glad and high,
As e'en in sunshine filled the sky.
I could not see the bonny bird,
But still the promise sweet I heart,
Though yet the flakes fell thick and fast;
Winter is broken o'er at last.

Since then, though trials 'round me close,
My heart the sweet remembrance holds.
Though I the end may not discern,
My soul in trust to Him doth turn
Who token sent, my heart to warm;
Of light and joy above the storm.
				AGUSTA JOYCE CHROCHEROM.


[Column 1]
	CELESTIAL MARRIAGE, OPENING A
				NEW ERA.

	THOUGHTS AND REFLECTIONS SUGGESTED
ON READING AN EDITORIAL IN A LATE
EXPONENT.

	Inasmuch as the women of Utah have
an organ through which they can speak
their feelings to each other and the world,
I feel it a duty incumbent on me to use
that channel to express my feelings to the
mothers and daughters of Zion, and bear a
testimony to those outside. I was born and
brought up in Salt Lake City, and am proud
to say also that I was born in the Celestial
Order of Marriage. I am quite young yet
in years, as well as in the knowledge of
the true Gospel, for I have not always
made my religion a subject of thought or
study; but thank God my eyes have at
last been opened to an understanding of the
privileges and blessings I enjoy in being
numbered among the Saints of these last
days. I know some of the feelings of my
young sisters. We are visited here by
many outsiders who scorn and ridicule
those who believe in and practice plural
marriage, and this has an affect, in a meas-
ure on the rising generation who are not
fairly established in principle; more because
of the pride of the world inherent in their
minds; but neither the unbelievers nor the
young sisters themselves appear to look for-
ward understandingly to the future or eter-
nal results of their acts in this life and the
reference they have to a hereafter.
	I have headed this article Celestial Mar-
riage and the opening of a new era, per-
haps it may be a deep subject for a young
woman to discuss, but I wish to say to all
who read this that I want Eternal Life, and
to go back to my heavenly Father and
Mother; can I obtain it by living up to the
principles revealed from heaven, principles
practiced by those who hold the keys of the
priesthood of God? Yes, I read in the book
of 'Doctrine and Covenants' that there are
three heavens, and no man or woman can
obtain the highest glory without keeping
the Celestial law of God, and the law of
the Patriarchial order of Marriage.
	Now my young sisters in Zion, would it 
not be better to obey this law and enjoy a

[Column 2]
Celestial glory than to reject it for any-
thing frivolous, and lose the opportunity of
exaltation? I know it would; what we sow
we will reap, if it be good seed, the fruit
will be of superior excellence, if sin and
evil, weeds thorns and thistles. God prom-
ised Abraham blessings which reached into
the endless ages of eternity, through the
principles of the Patriarchial Order of Mar-
riage. I am willing to abide this law be-
cause I want similar blessings. The Lord
says if we do not obey that law we cannot
partake the blessings of the new and ever-
lasting covenant. Congress says if we do
obey it, we shall be subject to their condem-
nation. Very well, we'll trust in God who
has said "fear not him who can only de-
stroy the body but fear him who can de-
stroy both soul and body; the foolish nation
may trust in Congress and we will see even-
tually which is the better part. The moves
Congress has been making seem to me to
have reference to John the Revelator's vis-
ion of "opening the seals." It is evident
to every faithful daughter in Zion, who has
the spirit of God, that great events are
about to transpire. Why was our beloved
and lamented leader, President Brigham
Young, moved upon to go to work and or-
ganize anew the Stakes of Zion? Because
of the events which await Zion and Baby-
lon.
	The revelations of God manifest to us all
who have the spirit of God in our hearts
that there is a great change at our doors; all
Israel feel it, earth and heaven and all the
powers of darkness feel it, and the wicked
are stirred up furiously against the Lord's 
anointed. The spirit of revelation is [-]e[-]t
here in St. George where the Holy Temple
has been ereeted; the spirits of the dead,
anxious and waiting, have been hovering
over those who preside and labor in that
holy sanctuary here, until Apostle Wood-
ruff, and others have been constrained by
the spirit of God, to officiate for their de-
parted friends, and those noble persons to
whom they have been directed by the
guidance and promptings of these heavenly
influences, in the sacred ordinances which
pertain to the house of the Lord. These
are powerful testimonies to those who re-
ceive them and clearly prove the manner in
which we become saviors upon Mt. Zion.
Not only are men favored with these great
and sacred blessings but women also are
saviors of women. There is no inequality
even in ministering for the dead. Woman
acts in her sphere as man in his. There-
fore is man not without the woman, nor the
woman without the man in the Lord. The
work of performing the ceremonies requires
as much labor and falls with as much digni-
ty upon woman as man. Therein is the
goodness of our Father to His daughters
made manifest. Holy women now minis-
ter in the Temple of God.
	The spirit of God is resting upon the peo-
ple.  Are not these events opening a new
era to us? Can our enemies hinder these
great and mighty events? They cannot.
Then arise! ye daughters of Zion, and mag-
nify your callings, and realize your bless-
ings, privileges and power before the Lord;
take hold and carry out the counsels of the
prophets and apostles, by magnifying your
positions as mothers and daughters of Zion.
	When you hear a man or woman, unbe-
liever or Mormon, ridicule Celestial Marriage
or any of the revelations of God, turn from
them, and let us feel and realize that we are
the true daughters of Zion. God is with us,
we should feel this in our hearts; Jesus has
died for us, can we do more?
	If by any act of ours, by obeying any
commandment or principle revealed to us

[Column 3]
we can be exalted in the Celestial kingdom
of God with our fathers, mothers, brothers,
sisters, husbands and children, receiving a
fulness of glory—then "let the heathen rage
and the people imagine vain things!” Let
the prophets, apostles and saints have faith
in God and trust in Him. Those who enter
into these holy covenants must trust in God
as did the Hebrews and the prophet Daniel;
and as God delivered them, so will he de-
liver His Anointed in the last days.
	That the God of heaven and the saints
may sustain the channel through which we
can speak, is the prayer of your young sis-
ter.							ESTHER.
	Oct. 10, 1877.


THE GRAVE OF GRAY, THE POET.—The
ride of five miles from Windsor to Stoke
Pogis is lovely, through shaded English
lanes and sweet-smelling hedgerows and
rural gardens. We did not go to the vil-
lage, for that was not our objective point; it
was at the entrance to the churchyard we
stopped—the church-yard that contains the
mortal remains of Thomas Gray, the one
which inspired his immortal "elegy," writ-
ten in sight of it, if not in it. Beside the
slab which marks the last resting-place of
the poet is one which covers the remains
of his mother, and it is somewhat singular
that, while the latter is overrun with ivy,
that of the poet is quite bare; perhaps van-
dals have taken it away. It is a spot where
a poet, one would think, might find rest—so
sweet, so quiet, so peaceful, the religious
little church, like a stone sentinel, keeping
guard, and holding it in perfect security.
How full of heart-memories this wonderful
England is! Whichever way you turn you
seem to be met by the ghosts of buried
friends, to whom you stretch out your arms
and plead for that closer companionship—
that dear relationship which, crossing the
sea, it seemed, should have yielded you.—
Jennie June.


FOOD AND SUNSHINE.—The want of prop-
er food and the sunshine is the cause of
three-fourths of the nervous ailments of
women. Over work is not the cause. Work
and hard work too, is the lot of every wo-
man who has a right to look upon her life
with complacence, and she would be pre-
pared for it by nature’s kindly efficiency, if
food, sunlight and exercise were duly al-
lowed their effect. If women gave their
bodies the same care that they give their
dress, they would come up to the standard
of their work. They ought to be nearly as
strong as men—with a finer and more sup-
ple strength, it is true; but the difference
should not be the immense disparagement
to women that it is. What they want is
muscle, not fat, on their meagre limbs,
which ought to be slender, graceful, arid
full of nerve as those of an Arab courser.
Perhaps in finding roundness of figure and
clearness of complexion they find strength,
and who shall say these things do not lie to-
gether. Sunshine and air ripen and fresh-
en the cheeks of women as they do fruits
in orchards. If Leonetta will, like English
women, spend four or five hours a day in
the open air, in such exercise as she can
bear, she will find her spirits and color re-
vive as brightly as she can wish.


A SWEETHEART is called a turtle-dove,
so a coquette must be a mock-turtle-dove.
	NEVER court the favor of the rich by
flattering either their vanities or their
vices.


84		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
l.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10 
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, NOV. 1, 1877.


[Column 1]

THE QUESTION OF THE TIME.

	This is the season when the sisters should be
all of them, most earnest and energetic in their
calling in Relief Societies and all such organ-
izations as compose and make up the work
done by women here at home. It is now late
enough to prepare for winter, and all those
whose hearts overflow with kind and benevo-
lent feelings, should remember the cold
weather is coming, when the poor and sick re-
quire much more attention than when the
pleasant sunshine warms them and gives them
fresh life and activity; they need more cloth-
ing; they need fires to warm them; they need
many little comforts that in summer time they
can do without.
	This is legitimate work of Bishops and Re-
lief Societies. (We would ask the brethren to
excuse us for mentioning Bishops, but the
work of benevolence in these matters is so
united between the two, that it is almost im-
possible to avoid mentioning Bishops in that
connection.) There are no poor houses in
Utah and we do not want any. The regularity
of the institutions, on all these matters, does
away with the necessity of any place of that
character.
	In the world it is different; and there are
very many persons in the United States (which
has a Constitution that surpasses all others
in its liberality and in most particulars, were
it carried out according to its genius and spirit)
who live for years in constant dread of some
incidental circumstance or misfortune over-
taking them, and they will eventually be
obliged to go to the POOR HOUSE. Such is not
the case with the Latter-day Saints. God in
His Infinite Wisdom has provided a better
system of government for His chosen people.
	The Lord has blest the Saints in the valleys
of the mountains with the good things of this
life beyond their most sanguine anticipations.
It is almost incredible how much has been
done, and how adverse have been the circum-
stances for such great achievements. What
other people, with so few facilities, would have
persevered under the accumulation of difficul-
ties the Saints have encountered in building
up Utah Territory. The one great enterprise
of emigrating thousands of people from for-
eign countries, year by year, is a most striking
specimen of the noble characteristics of the
Mormon people. And allow us here to observe,
that this will yet be considered as worthy of
being chronicled in the annals of the nation.
These same foreigners, many of them unedu-
cated, are nevertheless shrewd and practical;
they have bone and sinew, and they not only
help to strengthen and enlarge the borders of
the land of Zion, but the United States itself
becomes more powerful, not only in the num-
ber of its inhabitants, but from the resources

[Column 2]

brought to bear through their labors, upon the
revenue of the country.
	This work of emigration brings with it cer-
tain duties and responsibilities for women as
well as men: It falls chiefly upon Bishops
and officers of Relief Societies. They must
attend to the poor and the sick. Thus are wo-
men doing their part of the work of redeeming
the nations temporally, and assisting in the
gathering of Zion. This brings forcibly home
the truth of the remark, that it is easier to be a
missionary abroad than a home missionary.
To devise labor and initiate men and women
into the customs of a new country is not a de-
sirable thing. Yet this must be done, and wo-
men must take their share of this home mis-
sion. And it seems clearer every day that the
mission of storing grain should be given to
the women of Zion.
	It is only one of the labors which help to
make up the sum total of the benevolent work
which pertains to Relief Societies. Bread is
the staff of life, and if there was always an
abundance of other things, we think Mormon
women would scarcely be so unsophisticated as
one of the Queens of France, who, when she
was told her subjects wanted bread, asked her
minister why he did not give them cake.
	The heart or soul enlarges through its
sympathies. The more benevolent people are
the more still they desire to be; it is one of
those things that brings its own reward in
the blessings received as well as imparted.
The Savior said, "In blessing ye are blessed:"
and "Inasmuch as ye did it unto the least of
these my children, ye have done it unto me."
	Charity towards all God's suffering creatures
is commendable. And although it is some-
times said there is too much given in charity,
yet it is not possible always to judge persons
correctly, because there are, throughout the
world, many different standards of goodness,
and how can one determine another's demer-
its, not having known if there were extenuat-
ing circnmstances. It is necessary all should
be charitable: and it were better to be duped
and deceived many times, than to turn a deaf
ear to the cries of one person really needy.


[For the EXPONENT.
	GIRLS, KEEP GOOD COMPANY.

	Girls make it a point of your every day life
to choose your companions.
	It matters not how poor and uneducated you
may be, if you will, you may always be choice
of your associates. The Scriptures tell us to
"shun the very appearance of evil." Not that
to appear good, or true, or innocent is to make
one so, yet where persons are not known they
are, certainly, very generally judged by those
with whom they are in the habit of associat-
ing. Sometimes innocent persons are shun-
ned, and even condemned, through evil asso-
ciations. Really innocent persons have fre-
quently been in this way misrepresented and
maligned, and having gained through this
means a bad reputation, have felt respect was no
longer worth struggling for, and perhaps, be-
ing of a weak and vacillating nature, have
succumbed to the calumny heaped upon them,
and taken the downward course until it was
too late to retract.
	Girls, if you would have an unsullied name;
an irreproachable life, beware of chance ac-
quaintances. Better, far better, to be slow in
making friends, than to be too free to accept
proffers of confidence from those whose char-
acters are to you unknown.
	Be sure and confide in your mother; you will
never have cause to regret it. Take no heed


of your young friends who laugh at yonr prud-
ish ideas of propriety. Extremes are certainly
to be avoided in most instances, but in matters
of this nature you can scarcely be too precise.
You must be independent enough to ward oft
any little sarcasms from those who sneer about
mama's apron-strings, etc. Remember, were
any misteps to plunge you into difficulty
these false friends would be the last to assist
you in retracing your way; and perchance be
among the first to reproach you with wither-
ing sneers and humiliation.
	It is the duty of every young lady, a most
sacred duty, to guard her good name, to let
her deportment and her conversation be strict-
ly modest and decorous. Never let it be said,
as we frequently hear it remarked, "She is
good-hearted, generous and kind, but rough
and coarse in her manner and conversation."
There is no excuse for such conduct in the
young ladies of Utah, for the Associations
formed for mutual improvement in all things
pertaining to the welfare and development of
their hearts, minds and manners, as well as
other institutions, Schools, Sabbath Schoo[-]s
and Literary Societies, and also the associa-
tion with good and true women as well as
men, not only teach but guide them if they
will heed these things, in the path of duty
and principle. And it is almost invariably the
case that those who are willing to be obedient
to parents and instructors of youth, and espe-
cially if they are respectful to the aged, make
noble women, patterns in society, exemplary,
modest, and if not polished and graceful, are at
least courteous in manner, whole-souled, gen-
uine and trustworthy in all the social relations
of life.
								THYRA.
	Oct. 25, 1877.


HOME AFFAIRS.
	
	THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY.—For all
kinds of home-made socks and stockings, call
at Mrs. H. E. Strickland's. opposite 13th Ward
Meat Market, on Second South Street. All
orders filled promptly. Mrs. Strickland also
carries on dress-making in the same establish-
ment.
	AS ANOTHER tribute to the memory of our
late President, Brigham Young, some of our
citizens have succeeded in getting up a bust
of President Young in stone work, which is
certainly correct in feature, though at first
sight does not strike you as forcibly as after a 
closer observation. The bust is an enterprise
of Messrs. W. Fuller & Co., and we understand
the intention of the company is to thoroughly
canvass the Territory.
	DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON has returned to
this city, and located here for the purpose of
practising her profession. She now offers her
services as physician, surgeon and accoucheur,
to the ladies of Salt Lake City and vicinity,
and begs to assure those who may favor her
with their patronage, that having successfully
practised for the last fifteen years, and having
had the benefit of experience in Medical Insti-
tutions in Paris and London, feels herself
thoroughly qualified to benefit her sisters in
Zion. Mrs. Ferguson is also a teacher of music
and languages.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Knowing the interest the sisters feel in the
various settlements of Utah Territory, in the
home missionary work of some of the mothers
in Israel, we thought a few items of our recent
visit to Bear Lake Valley would not be un-


interesting to the many readers of our woman's
paper. We left Salt Lake City August 16, on
the Utah Central, bound for Paris, by way of
the Utah Northern from Ogden. There had
been a very severe storm north, that had in-
jured the Northern road so badly that we were
very long upon the way. The brethren had to
work almost constantly to make the road pass-
able for the train. We staid in Logan two
days, and spent the time with the Societies,
and in visiting the sick. We visited Sister
Benson, who was very ill at that time and has
since died. She seemed very much pleased to
see us, and we were glad to have the opportu-
nity of calling on her in her last illness.
	From Logan we went on to Franklin, arriving
there at one o'clock at night. Elder George
Spencer met us there and took us over to Paris.
	There we were favored by being present at
the re-organization of that Stake of Zion, that
being the last county in the Territory to be at-
tended to, completing the re-organization of
the entire Territory. There were present of
the Quorum of the Twelve, Elders John Taylor,
Lorenzo Snow, Franklin D. Richards, Albert
Carrington, also Charles C. Rich of that vi-
cinity. There was much good instruction giv-
en, and the Spirit of God rested upon all who
spoke. President Budge made some inquiries
in regard to our visit there, and we told him
our time was at the disposal of the sisters, and,
accordingly, previous to the meeting being dis-
missed, he gave out the following appoint-
ments: On Tuesday we were to hold a general
meeting with the Relief and Retrenchment
Societies at Bloomington, Wednesday at St.
Charles, Thursday at Paris, and Friday at
Montpelier. We filled all these appointments
except the last. On Wednesday the telegram
reached us of the President's death and on
Friday morning we started for home to reach
here in time for the funeral.
	At Bloomington the Bishop and other breth-
ren were present, and manifested an excellent
feeling in aiding and encouraging the sisters.
The meeting was presided over by Mrs. Green-
halch, president of the Relief Society. The
Society seemed in a prosperous condition con-
sidering the many disadvantages under which 
the people labor in isolated settlements. At
St. Charles our meeting was also well attended,
some of the brethren being present and speak-
ing words of encouragement. Mrs. Laker,
President of the Relief Society, took charge of
the meeting, and the sisters seemed earnest
and anxious in the work in which we have en-
listed. At Paris Mrs. Julia Lindsay presided
at the meeting, which was also a general one,
and a rather solemn one, as we had heard of
the death of our beloved President and Pro-
phet. The brethren had already left for Salt
Lake City.
	Everywhere, whether in public speaking or
private conversation, we talked of the Home
Industries, especially the Silk-culture, and
also the storing of grain. We encouraged the
sisters to persevere and carry out their organ-
izations according to counsel given from time
to time.
		Respectfully, your sisters, &c.,
						PHEBE WOODRUFF,
						MARY I. HORNE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


OBITUARY.

﻿	Died in Wellsville, Cache Co., Oct. 1st, 1877,
Seline, beloved wife of Joseph S. Redford, and
daughter of James and Margaret Dinsdale.
Deceased was born June 9th, 1852, at Bradford,
Yorkshire, England. After her arrival in the
valley she resided in Ogden two years, since


which time she has lived in Wellsville. She
suffered a most agonizing death during her ac-
couchement, after having endured the most in-
tense pain for forty hours. Medical aid was
summoned and all was done that was possible
under the circumstances, but all to no avail.
She leaves a husband and four young children
to mourn her loss; the eldest but seven years
old. She was a good wife, a loving mother,
and a faithful saint, and was beloved and es-
teemed by all who knew her, and is sincerely
mourned by a large circle of friends and ac-
quaintances who followed her to her last rest-
ing place, expressing sympathy and affection.
She was a useful member of the Relief Socie-
ty. Thus has passed away another young and
promising wife and mother, to await the morn-
ing of the First Resurrection.
	[Utah papers please copy; also Millennial
Star.]
			ELLEN WHITON,
				President Relief Society.


[Column 1]

DISCOURSE
BY
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG,
DELIVERED
In the Tabernacle, Ogden, at a Meeting of the
Relief Societies of Weber County,
July 19th, 1877.

REPORTED BY JAMES TAYLOR.

	I expected to attend a meeting of the Relief
Societies of this Stake of Zion to hear reports,
and comments from the Presidency, the Secre-
taries, and from those that they would call
upon to speak. I learn from the President
that the calculation was to invite the brethren
to come here and talk to them, instead of their
talking to us, and to give them instructions,
point out their duties, and direct them with
regard to their future course of life. This we
are willing to do on conditions. Were I to
ask you if you are willing to comply with those
conditions, I have no doubt but what you
would at once answer me in the affirmative,
and believe that you would carry out the de-
claration of your own voices, for this would be
your mind, The question is, will you carry
out our instructions? We leave each and every
one to determine that by their future lives.
We hope that the people will hearken, and by
their acts respond to our requests.
	The people called Latter-day Saints say that
they wish to know and understand how to or-
der their lives before Him whom we serve and
acknowledge as our Father and our God. If I
were to give you my own feelings with regard
to instructions, many of you would perhaps
consider it egotism; still, I take the liberty of
saying to these my sisters, if the counsel and
instruction that your unworthy servant has
given to the inhabitants of the earth had been
obeyed and carried out, I have taught them
enough to have saved the nations of the earth,
and to have made every one of them to be
Latter-day Saints.
	We are professedly Saints. What is the dif-
ference between a Saint of God and an angel
of God? One is clothed upon with mortality,
the other has passed through mortality,
the other has passed through mortality and
has received the celestial glory of our Heavenly
Father, and is free from the contaminating in-
fluences of sin that we have to contend with.
This is the difference. We ask the question,
can mortal beings live so that they are worthy
of the society of angels? I can answer the
question for myself—I  believe that they can;
I am sure that they can. But in doing this,

[Column 2]

they must subdue the sin that is within them-
selves, correct every influence that arises with-
in their own hearts that is opposed to the sanc-
tifying influences of the grace of God, and
purify themselves by their faith and by their
conduct so that they are worthy. Then they
are prepared for the society of angels. To be
Saints indeed, requires every wrong influence
that is within them, as individuals, to be sub-
dued, until every evil desire is eradicated, and
every feeling of their hearts is brought into
entire subjection to the will of Christ. Now
you all believe this just as much as I do.
	The first thing I am going to introduce to
my sisters is the condition of this community.
Since I have come into this place I understand
that you have a great deal of sickness here.
"It is very warm weather," one says. "A
great deal of sickness," says another. I want
to say to you that warm weather is very healthy
weather. And I can say still further, with re-
gard to our climate, a dry climate is a healthy
climate, much more so than where a damp mi-
asma arises from swamps and decayed mate-
rials, which is so frequently the case in low
lands, especially in the Mississippi Valley, but
not so on this western slope. Now I want you
to understand what I am talking to you—this
weather is beautiful weather to enjoy health.
	(To be continued.)


[For the EXPONENT.
COMMON SENSE TALK WITH THE
				GIRLS.

	I sometimes wonder if the young ladies who
have enrolled themselves as Retrenchment
girls, ever stop and reflect how many dollars
PER ANNUM are spent in various things: we
will say dress goods, for instance, which are
imported, when our home-made goods compare
favorably with eastern fabrics, and usually
wear better.
	At present we often wear things, that if they
were home-made, we would not be seen in.
	Now let us make a rough estimate of how
many dollars we sisters who belong to these
Associations could keep at home, making busi-
ness for our fathers and brothers, and some-
times ourselves, if we followed out practically
that which we profess to sustain. Usually
when we buy, we spend about three or more
dollars for any kind of a dress, except calico,
and say from five to ten for a cloak or shawl
for winter. We will say there are twenty So-
cieties in this city, with at least twenty-five
members in each; if these two articles alone
were home-made, and each member made a
point of wearing them, just see what a nice,
snug little sum would be circulating in our
own community; and then if all the Relief
Societies did the same, don't you think it
would tell? And would not our merchants al-
ways have home-made goods on hand? Of
course they would. And don't you think that
Brother Culter at the Home Commission Store,
and all those who are laboring to build up
Zion, would look smiling, and feel better?
Certainly they would. And if we want to
make our fathers, husbands, brothers or friends
a present, and it was some home-made arti-
cle, don't you think they would prize it all the
more? Of course they would; if they did not
they have not got the good sense I give them
credit for, and if they hav'n't, don't give them
any present; that's my advice to you.
	Girls, let us try and stem the current just a
little, and not destroy and pull down, but seek
to strengthen and build up.
						ONE OF THE GIRLS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

			ST. GEORGE, October, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I would like to tell you of our many good
and faithful sisters here in St. George. The
new organization of the Church has caused
many changes at this place. Our Relief
Societies are now in a most excellent condi-
tion for improvement; instead of one as
formerly, we now have four, one in each of
the four wards of our beautiful city, (to me
it is very beautiful.) Members of Socie-
ties of each of the wards, meet the first
Thursday in every month; they talk to each
other and have interesting meetings which
are growing better and more instructive
each time we meet; and I look forward to
the time when many will testify to the
blessing these meetings have been; certain-
ly our hearts are more united; we love each
other more than we ever did. While per-
forming our duties, or wherever we meet,
there is a thrill of pleasure experienced
that makes us feel we are meeting a Sister
and a friend. I have attributed this love in
our hearts in a great degree to our associa-
tions in our beautiful Temple, for every-
thing we do there is a "labor of love,", and
if we labor for love, love must be in our
hearts, and our spirits are genial, pliable
and full of kindness. On the 17th of Sep-
tember wa had a good time, a special meet-
ing of the sisters was called by our Presi-
dent J. T. D. McAllister. Mrs. M. I. Horne
met with us and gave us some valuable in-
struction, and we felt to bless her, and
thank God for the privilege of seeing her
and hearing her voice. "We are now wait-
ing for our books "The Women of Mormon-
dom" and hope the coming winter to en-
joy the reading of them in our meetings.
	We are expecting to see a great throng
come to the Temple to receive blessings for
themselves and for their dead this coming
season. I feel pleasure in saying that we as
a people in St. George, discard the foolish
fashions of the day and have set our faces
against them; and I am glad to think that
no extreme of fashions such as are worn by
the "beaumonde," are allowed to go into
the Temple, thanks to our beloved Presi-
dent who feels that Babylonish fashions
should not be admitted in so holy a place as
the Temple of God. We have a few among us
who love these things, and we do hope and 
pray that our sisters who come here will
leave their fashions at home; and if they
appreciate the privilege as I do they will
not mind traveling a few miles for the op-
portunity of receiving blessings in the
House of the Lord. I never did anything
that was so delightful to me as my daily
labors in the Temple. The peace of God is
there and all who go there can testify to
the same. The people here in Dixie have
had "hard times," and have felt isolated
and almost forgotten, but our Father has
given us a rich reward. When called to
come to the South in 1861, none of us im-
agined that our obedience to the call and
our faithfulness would be the means of
making us "saviors on Mount Zion." We
feel we are a blessed people, I have thank-
ed God for my home in St. George many
times; for the peace we have had here, the
freedom we have enjoyed in having no
fears of molestation from the enemies of
this Church. But to have a Temple to work
in, and be counted worthy of working
there, is of so much value to me, that I feel
I never can be thankful enough or do
enough to prove my gratitude to my Fath-
er in heaven for His goodness to me. I

[Column 2]
have no desire on earth but for good, and I
pray God to bless you in your faithful la-
bors as well as all the laborers in our Fath-
er's Kingdom.
							L. S. C.

		ROME, GEORGIA, Oct. 11th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I wish to address a few words to you, as a
sister in the everlasting Gospel. I am still
a true believer of the same Gospel that I
have been converted to through Brother
Morgan's preaching. I have been hoping
to see the day when I could leave Babylon;
and I am still in hopes, and think that the
Lord will open up the way, but the pros-
pects for immigration are very gloomy as
yet; the brethren have not been successful
in selling their land so far, it seems that
they can't do much towards emigrating
at this time, in consequence of being poor
and not being able to do anything much for 
themselves. There are several of the
brethren who cannot help themselves to
emigrate, if they can't sell their land.
There is a vast multitude of peoble in our
midst who have been plunged into great
poverty, in consequence of the late war,
and my father and family are among that
unfortunate number. They have only the
sale of their land to depend upon, and find
no sale for it. I tell my parents that I do
not think that I can stay here; I do not
think I will have to remain a great while,
or at least that is my feeling now; and as it
is my greatest desire to gather with the
saints in Zion. I do earnestly hope that I
may be able to accomplish my desire, and I 
feel that the Lord will render his aid unto
me.
	I remain as ever your sister in the true
and everlasting Gospel,
				MISS JOAN C. MANNING.


[For the EXPONENT.
MORMONISM.

	Mormonism, so called, is truly THE prob-
lem of the nineteenth century; the sphinx
of modern times! Even to the initiated it
is a marvel, and a wonder; a daily problem
for their study and solution; they measure
the future by the past, and by that mode
their faith is renewed and fed, and one of
their daily testimonies is that all who live
to its principles are fitted for the day, and
the hour, and the place to which they may
be called, realizing for themselves the Scrip-
ture, "As thy day, thy strength shall be."
Yes, indeed, those who are determined to
live their religion know that Hand leads
and guides them through every intricate
pathway, carries them over the "deep wa-
ters" in a marvellous way, so that only by a
look back can they realize the mighty help
they have had—the unseen, the unsleeping
influence that has been around them in the
hour of need—and in the joy and gratitude
of their hearts, they can only exclaim with
one of old, "My Lord, and my God!" Trials,
struggles every Saint must have, for this is
the Lord's school, and we must have lessons
that we may come out fitted for niches in
the Temple of our God in the grand here-
after! Without trials and the experience
acquired by them, life is but a child's coral
and tells the bitter and the sweet must be
blended to complete the character of a Lat-
ter-day Saint. I ever desire for my friend
and associate one who has graduated in the
school of trial and adversity, for in such I
find matter for mind, and mind for matter.
Gold without alloy will not stand the wear


and tear of every day life—I own to liking
a little ALLOY—for it too highly refined, or
too perfect they are unfit for daily use; the
law of our planet is imperfection, combined
with all that is grand, great and beautiful,
bearing on every part of it the impress of
Deity; and the word “good” stamped upon
it as positive, by the voice and signet ring
of the Almighty. We have the power to
choose the good and reject the evil; we
stand in the dignity of a free and responsi-
ble being, and if we possess wisdom, we
shall know how to choose, and that which
will be for our good.
Freedom increases responsibility in a
mighty ratio, and we shall need cultivation,
understanding and wisdom, that we may
use the God-given gift as becometh candi-
dates for celestial worlds. Where much is
given much is required—this is simply
cause and effect, which blended is an eter-
nal principle.
	A quarter of a century has passed since I
first embraced the Latter-day work, and it
has ever filled my soul; the hard part is to
live up to what I profess and love. The
world think we are a low, degraded people;
how egregious is their mistake! It takes a
high and noble being, generous, unselfish,
enduring, self-sacrificing, to make a Latter-
day Saint; and our principles are where
perfection comes in, for they are of God,
and no more need be said. The voice of
the worldling is as dust on the balance—
they know nothing of us, and it is very few
that will be told. If they would investi-
gate, there are many candid souls that
would at any rate put their finger on their
lip, and be silent, if nothing more.
			(To be continued.)


For the EXPONENT.
		OUR BOYS AND GIRLS.

		PRACTICAL HOME EDUCATION. 

	The necessity of young ladies being edu-
cated in household departments, has been
so long and so thoroughly ventilated, that
it is now a well established and almost uni-
versally acknowledged fact, that every girl
should learn to be a good cook and house-
keeper.
	And what about the boys? I will an-
swer, that in my opinion, every boy should
also be taught enough about housework,
that he may always know how to make him-
self useful about home. And to under-
stand the true dignity of labor so well, that
he would be more ashamed to sit idly watch-
ing his mother and sisters trudge about
hour after hour, than to be found assisting
in the household duties which are performed
for his comfort as well as theirs.

	THE BOY THAT DESERVED THE PRIZE.

	Last Twenty-fourth of July, after the
cIose of the Sabbath School Jubilee at the
Tabernacle, the people of the Twentieth
Ward had an old-fashioned entertainment
at their school house. Here, prizes were
distributed, among the young folks under
certain ages, for superiority in different ac-
complishments. Among other things of
interest, one of the most pleasing items was
that a young gentleman obtained a hand-
some prize for the best loaf of bread. This
little point is not so important in itself as
were the circumstances which led to it.
After being occupied with outdoor work for
a portion of the day, our young gentleman
heard his sister remark that she must make
and bake two batches of bread—one for the
amily and one to take to the schoolhouse.


[Column 1]

The kind-hearted brother knew that their
mother was too feeble to help with the
work, and that sometimes his sister had
more to do than she could well attend to.
He knew, too, that he could make good
bread, thanks to his sensible mother. So
he offered to make the bread for home use,
while his sister should make the other.
	Although it is always commendable to
take great care in things of so much im-
portance as bread making, it sometimes oc-
curs that a little extra painstaking proves a
little too much, and renders the work not
quite so satisfactory in the end. And so it
proved with the loaves in question. The
bread which the boy made and attended to
the baking of, came out of the oven a little
better than his sister's. And by the moth-
er's suggestion, the better loaf was taken
to the schoolhouse, where, among a goodly
number of fresh, light loaves, it fairly won
the first prize.
	Will not all my young gentlemen friends
agree with me, that the thoughtful, practi-
cal boy of whom I have been writing, de-
served a prize? I know the ladies will.
		WHY HE DID NOT MARRY HER. 
	We all know the story of the young man,
who, upon visiting his lady-love, found her
in the parlor, fashionably attired, playing
and singing, "Who will care for mother
now!"  And how, at the same time he acci-
dentally discovered that dear mother was
down in the kitchen, sweltering over the
cook stove, caring for herself and also the
rest of the family. And how, for this
cause, he put away all tender thoughts of
the young lady, determining to marry one
of a more practically consistent nature.
But I can tell a better story than the fore-
going. I say better, because my story is
possessed of as good a moral, with a more
pleasant termination.
		"LET ME DO IT, MOTHER."
	A young man had declared love to a
lady and asked her to be his wife. She
hesitated, and he allowed her her own time
to consider the matter, before giving a de-
cided answer. One evening, while yet her
mind was unsettled, she had occasion to
call upon an aged relative, who resided in
the family of which our hero was a mem-
ber. As she approached the door, a sudden
impulse caused her to pause. He might be
at home, she thought, and she might en-
counter him. And seeing her there, he
would probably imagine she called on pur-
pose to see him. She was sure she did not
care much for him, and these thoughts ren-
dered her quite uneasy. While she stood
upon the doorstep thus meditating, she
heard the oven door of the cook stove open,
then the rustle of a paper, as if it were
thrown upon the table; then a firm, light
step and the voice of her admirer saying in
a gentle way, "Let me do it, mother" Then
she knocked, and was admitted just in time
to see the gentleman taking some pies from
the oven, instead of continuing his reading
while his tired mother waited upon herself.
This little circumstance aided the young
lady in concluding what answer to make to
the all-important question. She soon after-
wards married the same gentleman, who, I
am informed, makes an excellent husband
and father.
		GOOD CITIZENS.
	Far be it for me to advocate the practice
of boys being kept choring about the house,
until they have no ability nor disposition to
follow in other pursuits, more common to
the masculine portion of society; or of

[Column 2]

husbands staying at home to mind the ba-
bies, while their wives are out lecturing,
or entertaining the public in some other
way.
	But as I have remarked before, let the
boys learn enough about household duties,
that under any circumstances they may not
feel themselves ignoramuses in those prac-
tical arts. By having some understanding
of woman's work, a man can better appre-
ciate her and it. He will contrive more
conveniences for her in her home sphere, if
he is brought to realize their advantages.
Good sons, husbands and fathers are sure
to be good citizens. The man who is gen-
erous, obliging and helpful about home, will
make a better Statesman, General or Presi-
dent than the one who is not.
	Much is said about training our girls to
become good wives and mothers; let us
also reflect and talk about training our boys
to become good husbands and fathers. Let
us remember that the mother may will
what kind of a man her boy shall make,
and have it so. True, the father's example
is either a great help or hindrance in the
rearing of children; but the mother's teach-
ing has the supremacy.
	LULA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		87


[For the EXPONENT.
RAMBLING THOUGHTS.

BY MAY MAPLE.

	In thinking of the vast number of fallen
women that abound in nearly every city of
the world, and their miserable, miserable
lives, it must occur to a person that these
poor, degraded creatures who throng the
thoroughfares of the larger cities, were
once as pure, innocent and unsullied as the
babe which we see sleeping in its cradle;
and alas! Now how terrible, how great the
change! It is evident that they all have
had fathers, mothers, sisters and brothers,
perhaps have once been tenderly nurtured,
loved and cared for; and I never see one
pass on the street without thinking, "Whose
sister is she, I wonder; whose home has
been blighted by the encroachments of that
serpent in disguise—the betrayer of inno-
cence?" And then I think, Suppose my
sister was like this creature? It is thus that
I realize more fully, how deplorable to be an
outcast and forsaken! But there are a great
many persons who do not give the matter
sufficient thought; who do not bring it home
to themselves, or their own. They seem to
accept it as a matter of course. It does not
excite much pity or feeling, for the reason
that it is so common, so VERY common.
	And you may perhaps ask: "What has
caused the fall? What has transformed
these once innocent girls into what they are
now?" Numerous and different things.
Slowly, but none the less surely, they trav-
eled the road to ruin. They perhaps were
influenced by sophistries they could not
comprehend, and almost before they were
aware of it they had gone so far on the road
to ruin, they had not the heroism to retreat.
One cause of many girls being led astray is
vanity, or love of dress, of finery, some-
thing to adorn the person. At one time
women dressed with a view to comfort—
now with a view to display. Once they
married for love—now they enter the con-
nubial state to gain position, silk dresses,
diamonds, a carriage, and other etceteras,
which go to make up a fashionable "lady"
of to-day. And the passion for display and
love of dress has gone so far, that a really
good, honest young man, with a moderate
income, in one of our large cities, dare not

[Column 2]

take upon himself the responsibility of car
ing and providing for a family, for fear that
the partner of his joys and sorrows would
ruin him financially before the honeymoon
was over. If he cannot buy her as fine
dresses as her neighbors or relatives have,
in many instances dissatisfaction, (a very
unwelcome visitor) sits at the hearthstone
instead of content and happiness. This,
we say, is the present state of affairs gener-
ally, though there are, we are proud to ac-
knowledge, many honorable exceptions;
but they are too few and far between. The
love of flattery and vanity are the loopholes
by which the sophistries of the tempter
may enter. Thus, in some cases, woman's
vanity is the cause of woman's ruin; and
that woman who seeks the admiration of
men and the envy of others of her sex,
whether she be aware of it or not, lends a 
hand towards the ruin of her sisters, and
may be called to an account. The love of
dress and vanity once firmly planted in
woman's nature, and there is nothing,
scarcely, she will not sacrifice, and in many
instances all that is sacred, to obtain it.
This, I repeat, is the cause of many a girl's
ruin. 
	But there are other causes, and one pow-
erful one is the present existing state of so-
ciety. Money is the foundation, in fact the
whole structure of our BONTON circles;
brains are evidently at a discount; virtue,
honesty and uprightness are esteemed by
the majority as nothing, unless a person has
gold. And if a man is well supplied with
the necessary funds, society will admit him,
will often fawn upon him, even though he
may have obtained his wealth dishonestly,
and bears the reputation of gambler, liber-
tine and rogue. These vultures thus gain
access to the society of young and innocent
girls in fashionable circles, and the result is
that many are ruined and disgraced forever.
God speed the time when virtue will be
held in greater respect than money! Oh!
that the time were already here!  
	Another question: What would be your
feelings, girls, if you saw your brother in
the company of a woman whom you knew
to be disreputable? I need not ask you who
are pure-minded aad innocent; you would
be shocked, of course. Yet you allow men
in your company who are the destroyers,
the betrayers of innocence. You may not
know that they bear such characters; but
you should be chary as to whom you asso-
ciate with—you cannot be too careful; you
should wait until you know the character
of young men before you allow yourselves
to become acquainted with them, at least to
any extent, and if you should accidentally
ally be in the company of one whose char-
acter is tarnished do not allow yourself to
recognize him again under any circumstan-
ces. Were this rule generally observed,
there would be fewer girls ruined, and less
misery than there is now. Flirtations (es-
pecially street flirtations) are another very
fruitful source of ruin and disgrace. I have
no doubt but that many, if not the major-
ity, of girls who indulge in such little
amusements are entirely innocent of any
wrong—pure themselves, they as a natural
consequence, imagine all others to be the
same. Would it were so! But it is not,
and the many evil-minded men on the look
out for victims, in this manner find what
they seek, and through this channel open
an avenue to accomplish their wicked de-
signs.
	It is a simple thing at first; a coquettish
glance, a wave of the fan, a flirt of the
handkerchief, an uplifted hat in recognition
—simply that and nothing more; but, poor
human moth, it has led you to your doom.


An acquaintance thus begun progresses rap-
idly and ends disastrously. Words follow
glances, sighs follow words, then clandes-
tine meetings until there comes a meeting
from which can be dated a wrecked life and
a lost soul. And, oh! how many lecherous
scoundrels, panderers to vice, worse than
wolves in sheep's clothing, there are that
commence their advances through street
flirtations!"
	I would also remind my readers that:

			"The devil's in the moon
		For mischief. Methinks that they
		Who called her chaste, too soon
		Began their nomenclature. There is not a day,
		The longest, not the twenty-first of June,
		Sees not half the wicked business in its way
		As does three single hours of moonshine smile,
		But yet she looks so modest all the while."

	I will close now, having given a few rea-
sons why girls fall; but I may again refer
to the subject, if the editor of the EXPO-
NENT will let me intrude upon her space.


88		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GRAIN ITEMS.

	SPANISH FORK, Oct. 12th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	By request I send you a few items of re-
port in regard to storing grain by our Re-
trenchment Association in Spanish Fork.
We were called out by our President Mary
J. Morrison, Sept. 18, to glean, and thereby
save a portion of the grain that would have
been wasted. Seventy-five girls volunteer-
ed to go, we were organized into compa-
nies of ten, with a team to each company;
Bros. G. H. Brimhall, Z. Coltrin, E. A.
Wilson and John Beckstun, of the Y. M.
M. I. A. assisted with teams. It being
so late in the season the grain was rather
dry, however we succeeded in saving
twenty-three bushels and a half. Our ob-
ject was to save, in accordance with our de-
parted President's counsel. We would all
have willingly donated our peck; but that
would have been taken from the abundant
harvest already secured, this we saved of
what would have been left in the fields.
Bishop Snell very kindly let us have room
in the Tithing Office for our grain for the
present. In the evening the City Hall was
at our service for a party; although feeling
too tired to dance much, we felt happy that
we had been working for a good cause for
Zion. We feel well as a society and wish
at all times to be dictated by the Spirit of
God that our efforts may prove successful.
	Wishing success to the EXPONENT, I re-
main,
	Your Sister,
		E. P. LITTLE, Secretary.

	EPHRAIM, SANPETE Oct. 9th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Under the able administration of our
President Sarah A. Petersen, the counsels
of our lamented President Brigham Young
in regard to storing grain, are well respond-
ed to. The sisters of the Relief Society
have gleaned 70 bushels of wheat, beside
this, we have five hundred bushels stored
for Zion, and intend to add as much as we
possibly can. We have had rather a sickly
season in Ephraim, but the health of the
people is improving. The boys in this set-
tlement (God bless them) have hauled poles
enough to fence our Relief Society lot, and
the sisters in return made the boys happy
by a picnic supper and dance.
	With best wishes for the EXPONENT and
yourself.
	Respectfully your sister,
			AGNES S. ARMSTRONG.


[Column 1]
				 NOTICE.

	There will be an annual meeting of the sev- 
eral committees on Storing Grain, at the Coun-
cil House in this city, Satu[-]day, Nov. 17th, at
2 o'clock p. m., sharp. Presidents and Secre-
taries of Societies who have been engaged in
Storing Grain for Zion, will please report as
soon as possible by letter to the President of
Central Committee, the amount of grain they
have on hand, how it is stored and what are
their future prospects In this work, in order
that the Central Committee may make a full
and clear as well as definite report of all grain
stored for Zion, and held in trust in the hands
of women. A punctual attendance of all the
sisters of the Societies in this city, or near lo-
calities, is desired.

FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

	The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

	[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

		NEW FALL STOCK.

	F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

	SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.

Call at the Constitution Building, Salt Lake Cirt, and ex-
amine the large stock of goods just recieved from the
Mill, consisting of Fine White and Colored Yarns, Flan-
nels, Linseys, Etc.
				JOHN C. CUTLER,
									AGENT.

		ROWE'S
			CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
	Big Boot, Main Street.

	No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

VISITORS TO CONFERENCE
	Amply Repaid by Visiting
TEASDEL,
			FOR
	FAMILY SUPPLIES
			FOR
FALL AND WINTER WEAR.
[Column 2]
	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

	NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
	DRY GOODS,
					IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
	Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

