VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1877.	No. 14.


[For	the EXPONENT.
		LAKESIDE MUSINGS.

I stood on Eric’s foam-washed strand,
  And watched the ripples beat
Upon the bed of golden sand
  That glistened at my feet.
Ripe Autumn’s yellow, burning sun
  Blazed o’er the sea-girt west,
But lingered, ere his race was run,
  To gild each snowy crest.
With liquid fire in crescents bright
  And dancing on the sea,
Like fairy sylph and water sprite
  In mirthful revelry.
No cloud was there, the bending sky,
  So clear and purely blue,
Appeared reflected from on high
  To lend the wave its hue;
Which, answering the ardent God
  That kissed it	with its beams,
As down the west in fire he rode,
  Threw back ten million gleams,
The breeze, sweet nature’s telephone,
  Swept by in low refrain,
Like leaves in trembling monotone
  Responding to the rain.
And sweeter note to listening ear,
  Though in an unknown tongue,
Than came to me in accents clear,
  I ween were never sung—
Unknown? Nay, most familiar song
  Dame Nature’s music is,
To all whose thoughts in tuneful throng
  Blend with her melodies;— 
Aeolian tidings from afar,
  Of other lands and skies,
Of friends, of home and kindred dear,
  And all that true hearts prize.
*     *     *     *     *     *     *     *
How ever is life's history
  Evolving constant change!
How rife with new-born mystery,
  As fickle lived as strange.

Each fleeting day has its to-morrow; 
Each pleasure has a sister sorrow;
And hours of future peace remain
To heal the wounded heart again.
As time rolls on in its routine,
Each phase alternately is seen;
And yet it seems as though distress
Were longer lived than happiness;
For, while our sorrows ling'ring stay,
Like clouds that hover o'er the day,
Our "happy moments" soon are past--
"Too beautiful," indeed, "to last." 
But thoughts like these must buried be--
Their sadness has no claim on me;
Away amid some bygone scene,
Their epitaph:  "It might have been."
For time has taught my yielding heart,
From themes like these to e'er depart,
Nor after fruit forbidden may we yearn,
For all we have is all we truly earn.
Old Erie!  On thy golden sanded shore,
Where wavelets speak, or sullen breakers roar,
Where hurricanes rush by in furious tone,
Or evening zephyrs breathe in gentle moan,
Beneath the bending verdure of the woods,
High tossing heads bedecked in sylvan hoods,
Far from the crowded streets of busy town;
I find a spirit answering my own;
I hear a voice of moving eloquence.
I hold with nature mutual confidence,
I live where all her changing beauties dwell,
And feel the things that language cannot tell.
Cleveland, Ohio, Nov., 1877. 				O.F.W.


A convention of delegates represent-
ing the cause of all the woman suffrag-
ists in the United States is to meet in Wash-
ington on the 8th of January next; and the
Senate Committee on Privileges and Elec-
tions will hear a delegation of women on
the day following. Thanks to Mrs. Sara J.
Spencer.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
		AFTER LONG YEARS.

			LETTER IV.

	What say the voices from out the long years?
	Bring they sweet promise to cheer our lone way—
	Inspiring to action, and banishing fears,
	Whispering courage and strength for to-day?

	Does not passing through deep sorrow
and walking in thorny paths prepare one to
enjoy a fuller and more complete happiness
when the dark hour is over, when the path
which was rough has been trodden down
by patience, perseverance and constant toil,
and become smooth and easy to walk in?
Are we not each of us pioneers in the great
journey of life? Is it not meet that we
should be brave and courageous for our-
selves, and not lean upon those who, like
ourselves, must carve their own way
through every obstruction? Some women
find brave, valiant fellow-pilgrims, who say
in the generosity of their hearts, Lean up-
on me. Sometimes it succeeds admirably;
and the woman petted, cherished and be-
loved glides along, always trusting, confid-
ing, leaning, and is carried through the
world without any individual experience,
any practical culture of the noblest attri-
butes of life. What are they prepared for
when they enter upon another stage of ex-
istence? Is this the wisest and best course
to pursue? All of us who have passed
through a long experience know how un-
certain it is to depend wholly upon another,
because the instances are only rare excep-
tions in which it succeeds. The masses
make it an utter failure, as the history of
the world, as well as of individual acquaint-
ances, plainly proves. This is a question
all of us who are rearing daughters, and all
who are interested in the great problem of
life-work, should gravely consider. Boys
are expected to act for themselves, to know
for themselves; to fulfill practical life-duties
and responsibilities, and are born into the
world imbued with these independent ideas.
But men tell us (and women, too) that it
is not necessary girls should be educated
ONLY to become good wives and mothers;
In the name of common sense we would
ask, What is their idea of goodness? To
keep house economically, to have beautiful,
well-developed, healthy, bright, active, in-
telligent children (mostly sons), to wear a
smiling face under all circumstances, in
fact, to be obedient in all things to their
lord and master. When all this and ten
thousand more things are understood by
the term good wives and mothers, then the
question naturally arises, Will not the task
be a hard one to those who make no prepa-
ration except to smile and look pretty?
Ought women not to be philosophers, to ful-
fill all the responsibilities of wives and
mothers? Recently we heard a gentleman
remark, women were not philosophers, that
they never arrived at conclusions by rea-
soning, but admitted they were quick at
intuition, intimating at the same time that
it answered well enough for them; seem-
ingly he thought it made very little differ-
ence whether they were ever really sure
and positive upon any point, as that was
always left for some man to decide for
them.

[Column 2]
	My idea is if women are not philosophers
they ought to be; and further, that they
should not only make an effort to be capa-
ble of judging for themselves, and carrying
their own individual burdens, without im-
posing upon others, but that they should
be so earnest and practical as to accomplish
something real for themselves. We talk a
great deal about sympathy; and true, genu-
ine sympathy is an excellent recipe for
many things, but indulgence is not sympa-
thy, and if one is fostered in indolence it
weakens and detracts from the solid quali-
ties which ennoble character.
	Woman loses her charm for man as soon
as she becomes strong-minded and wants to
know for herself—so says Madame Grundy.
Then I suppose it remains for woman her-
self to arrive at some practical method of
discipline into principles of true independ-
ence of character. This can be done when
women care more for the real life-mission
of mankind and less for the estimation in
which they are held by men.
	This letter is unsatisfactory, having
opened up a subject on which so much
should be said to make it clea[-] to the read-
er, but will our kind patrons excuse this
preface, and the following letters may elu-
cidate more fully the object we have in
writing.					AUNT EM.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	"I have an idea to ventilate," writes a
correspondent. "In looking over the draw-
ings in an iron company's office, I was
struck with their beauty and delicacy, and
I could not help saying, Why couldn't wo-
men be draughtsman? With a practical
knowledge of drawing, algebra, geometry,
and a little taste and perseverance, I am
sure an intelligent girl could learn to con-
struct bridges. There is little muscular
effort, and the work is indoors." This idea,
or one nearly similar, has been already in
successful operation in London. In Febru-
ary, 1876, an office was established, and the
management undertaken by a Miss Crosby,
who had acquired a thorough knowledge of
the work in the house of an eminent firm
of engineers. Her superintendence was
given gratuitously. During the first year
the workers earned over $1,300.—Woman's
Words.
	Woman's Printing Association.—This
Association is organized for the purpose of
giving special facilities for the thorough
training and employment of girls and wo-
men in type-setting, engraving, and other
light branches of printing. Also for the
purpose of publishing books, tracts, and
papers of special interest to women, for
their education, encouragement and ad-
vancment in all the trades, arts and sciences.
	Those who desire to assist in promoting
this object are invited to take shares in the
Association, and to send orders for printing.
	Branch agencies will be established in
the leading cities, and correspondents are
wanted in all the principal towns.
	Further infromation may be obtained by
addressing the secretary,
	MRS. JUAN LEWIS,
		No. 625 Walnut Street,
			Philadelphia, Penn.


106		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting,
held in the Fourteenth Ward Assembly
Rooms, Nov. 10, was a most interesting
one. The minutes of the previous meet-
ing, and also the minutes of the young
ladies from the several wards were fnll of
instruction and wisdom. President M. I.
Horne expressed herself pleased with the
minutes, and remarked that in looking over
the congregation assembled, she could not
help thinking the sisters present were
among the valiant ones that were reserved
to come forth in the last days. She spoke
of the duties of the saints and the bless-
ings they enjoyed.
	Counselor E. R. Snow spoke of her re-
cent visit to the sisters in the northern set-
tlements, the many meetings she had at-
tended, the good feeling and spirit that
existed among the sisters in the country,
and the energy and zeal manifested in good
works. She dwelt with great earnestness
upon the necessity of sustaining home-in-
dustries practically, and the duties of moth-
ers in teaching their children correct prin-
ciples. Counselor E. Howard made some
very good remarks upon the preservation of 
health, and training children in the ways of
righteousness. Several other sisters made
appropriate remarks.
	The General Retrenchment Meeting,
Nov. 24, Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding. Af-
ter the usual exercises and reading of min-
utes, Pres. Horne, Mrs. W. East, Mrs. Nau-
cy Clark of Farmington, Mrs. M. J. Thomp-
son, Counselor P. Woodruff, Mrs. Sarah Groo
Mrs. Martha Young and Counselor B. W.
Smith each addressed the meeting, mak-
ing many wise suggestions on subjects of
general interest, and encouraging each other
in good works. Counselor E. R. Snow said 
she had been edified by the remarks of the
sisters, and bore testimony to the truths
spoken by them.
	General Retrenchment Meeting, Dec. 8,
Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding. The minutes
of the Junior Societies were rich in senti-
ment, and furnished a wide field for thought.
President M. I. Horne, Counselors Zina D.
Young and E. R. Snow each addressed the
sisters; Mrs. Young, in her remarks, dwelt
upon the form of prayer, and the manner
of praying in a public capacity: she said a
person offering a prayer in any public place
should, in expressing themselves, always
say we in addressing the Deity, as they
were beseeching in behalf of all there as-
sembled; many persons used the pronoun
I,. which was very improper. Another
item was that of partaking the Sacrament
with a glove upon the hand; she had some-
times seen sisters partake of it with the
left hand; this was also out of order. There
is a certain order in all things which per-
tain to the priesthood, and counseled the
sisters to be faithful to observe all these
things. Miss Snow then expressed herself
in regard to prayer, and the effect of re-
sponding with Amen by the congregation.
Quite a large number of sisters bore strong
testimonies, and much good instruction was
given. The Lord blesses the sisters in these
meetings with great faith, and the Holy
Spirit rests abundantly upon all who have
hearts ready to receive the truth.

			PROVIDENCE, Oct. 26, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Some minutes of a Special Meeting of the
Providence Relief Society. After singing
and prayer, the President Margaret Math-
ews arose and said she was glad to meet the
sisters upon such an occasion, and was
thankful of having the privilege of meet-

[Column 2]
ing with the sisters from the City. She
asked God to let His holy spirit rest on each
and every one so that the instruction they
would receive would benefit them both now
and in after years. Mrs. Zina D. Young
spoke of the necessity of storing grain, and
and being self-sustaining, and of the use-
fulness of the silk worm and the mulberry
tree; also counseled mothers of the daughters
of Zion, to teach their daughters to encour-
age home productions and to make their
own hats, bonnets, and every article of
clothing they needed, and to live humble
and righteous before their Maker. She gave
much good instruction to the young people.
Mrs. E. Davis said it had been two years
since she had visited the sisters here, and
she felt happy and highly honored to meet
with them on such an occasion. She said
it was one consolation, that the outside
world gave us credit for our work, if they
did not for our religion, said they could not
see as we see. She asked how many num-
bers of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT the sisters
took at this place—only so few; there ought
to be more. Advised the sisters to buy the
church books and read them, and not fill
their minds with low reading and nonsense.
She requested the brethren and sisters and
clerks of our stores to come and buy their
winter goods at the Woman's Commission
Store, and not from Babylon. Miss Eliza R.
Snow, after some appropriate opening re-
marks, asked if we were really saints or
merely professed to be saints. She said it
would be well to think and reflect about it.
She instructed the young ladies not to use
slang phrases or corrupt their minds with
bad words, and that it would be well for the
young ladies to discuss it in their meetings
and to set a good example before the young-
er sisters, and to patronize home-produc-
tions, and sustain those who were placed
over them, and not to indulge in back-bit-
ing, but to be kind and friendly, and always
speak kindly to one another. She urged
the young ladies to be industrious and to
get mulberry trees and plant them out, pro-
cure silk worms and raise silk so that they
might make their own silk stockings and
neck-ties, dresses, capes, handkerchiefs and
everything that can be made from silk, and
not to buy them of the outside world. She
said the organization of the Relief Society
was a revelation from God through Joseph
Smith the prophet, and the Young Ladies
Associations was a revelation from God to
President Brigham Young. She gave much
good instruction to the young men and wo-
men. She said it was no common thing in
the days of Kirtland and Navuoo for little
children to hold meetings, and to preach,
pray, sing and enjoy the gifts of the Gospel.
She inquired of the young ladies if they
wished to be organized into a Mutual Im-
provement Society. They answered yes.
Miss Parthenia Blair was chosen President
of the Association of Providence, Joan John-
son, Sophia Poulson, Sarah Hammond, Al-
zina Brown, Lucinda Fulmer and Alice
Rice her counselors; Anne Mathews Secre-
tary; Elizabeth Frederick Assistant Secre-
tary; Elizabeth Blair, Treasurer. Miss Snow
gave some most valuable instruction to
these young sisters who were appointed to
hold positions of honor and trust in the As-
sociation. President M. Mathews express-
ed her thanks to the sisters for their kind-
ness and for the good instruction received
from them. The meeting was dismissed by
Elder George W. Mailen.

				GOSHEN NOV. 2nd, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place held an
annual meeting Oct. 8, giving a report of

[Column 3]
finance, and exhibiting a variety of home
industries. There were present on the
stand by invitation, Mrs. M. A. Hyde, and the
Presidents of Santiquin and Payson, with
their Counselors and Secretary; Bishop Wil-
liam Price, his Counselors, and Brother
Barry Wride of Payson. The meeting was
presided over by President Mary Johnsen.
After the usual opening exercises our Bish-
op addressed the meeting, giving us good
counsel and expressed himself pleased with
our progress and financial report; compared
us to the honey-bee and congratulated us
in being engaged in such a laudable work,
and felt to bless all those enaged therein;
Mrs. M. A. Hyde, Mrs. J. B. Simons, Mrs.
Elizabeth Stickney, Mrs. Agnes Douglas
and Bro. Barry Wride spoke and said many
things calculated to comfort and help us.
Our President read a poem composed for
the occasion, by Mrs. Christina Higginson.
The young ladies of the Mutual Improve-
ment Association took an active part in the
meeting and in contributing specimens of
handiwork, and also in reading their paper
which was very interesting, and the min-
utes of their last meeting which plainly
showed they are alive to their duties and
are striving in the right direction.
	Our financial report from June 1st, 1876,
to June 4th, 1877:
Donations received........................... $ 87 75
Disbursed to the poor.......................    47 27
Donated to Arizona mission.............    16 00
Building material for Relief So-
	ciety House.................................   160 00
Shares in Co-op Store.......................      30 00
Shares in Provo Factory...................    140 00
Cash in hand......................................      46 00
Goods and produce on hand..........       90 00
	Our President arose and thanked the
brethren and sisters for their attendance,
she had been very much edified by their re-
marks and as the storing of grain had been
mentioned she would report the quantity on
hand; the articles exhibited were the work
of the sisters of this place; she hoped our
next annual meeting would be held in our
new Society House. Among the home in-
dustries exhibited was "Our Motto, Refuge
for the Needy," and representing the Bee-
hive all worked in Berlin wool. The dox-
ology also worked in Berlin wool by one of
our young sisters, straw and coral baskets,
home-made flowers, hair work, pin cushions,
rag carpets, rag mats, quilts of various
kinds; wool-daisy mats, woolen shawls, mus-
lin needle-work, neckties of different mate-
rials, crotchet table covers, straw picture
frames, and many other articles.
	The meeting was a gratifying one to all
present, and they seemed to enjoy them-
selves very much, and a good spirit prevail-
ed in our midst. There seems to be a spirit
of unity among the sisters of this place;
we feel well in our meetings, and are de-
termined to help roll on this Latter-day
work. May we follow the counsels of our
Lord, and walk in His footsteps, remember-
i[-]g our beloved leader who has passed be-
hind the veil, and imitate his noble exam-
ple so that we may be prepared when we
are called to pass to the spirit world.
	Wishing you and your valuable paper
every success, I remain as ever, your sister
in the New and Everlasting Covenant.
			LOUISA TAYLOR, Secretary.


THROUGH THE recent strike of cigar-
makers in New York City, 4,000 girls have
been employed. The girls have succeeded
wonderfully with the work, it is said; and
if the strike continues, the men’s places
will be filled with girls. 12,000 men are
engaged in the strike.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
MY HEART AND I.

We’re sometimes sad, my heart and I,
(My heart and I are old-time friends,)
And oft when clouds obscure our sky,
Each unto each confidence lends;
And if by chance you happen near,
Some strange confessions you might hear.

My heart and I are special friends;
We know each other’s weakness, too;	
Yet for each other make amends
For any fault, as friends should do. 
My heart, (I know with best intent)
Has wrought me ills it never meant.

Yet I forgive my heart, for I
Ne’er found a friend that so loved me;
O’er all my faults it doth but sigh,
Where Reason would reproachful be;
Where even Hope would shake her head,
Viewing the future path with dread.

Yet no one, but my heart and I,
Know what endeavors we have made
To build our castles fair and high,	
On best foundations ever laid;
And no one, but my heart and I,
Know how complete a wreck they lie.

We don’t repine, my heart and I—
Failures but teach us how we fell;
And if the grapes were hung too high,
Some other fruit will do as well;
We thankful glean the golden wheat,
And sweet strawberries at our feet.
 
We once made note, my heart and I,	 
Perhaps with pardonable pride,
Of youth-time's charms that pleased the eye,
Where now their phantoms only glide,
And solace find; for we are told, 
In heaven we’ll never more grow old.

In reverie, my heart and I,
Missing the voice we turned to hear,
Have stood beneath the still night-sky,
Feeling the influence hov'ring near
So bless’d, that ling'ringly we turned
Homeward, where cheerful hearth-lights burned.

Oft have we felt, my heart and I, 
By lonely bed of pain and fear,
The blessed presence drawing nigh,
Bidding our drooping spirits cheer.
Behold what faith in God can give,
When e'en the dying turn and live. 

Not even thou, best friend, may’st share,
The silent vigils that we keep.
Even the darlings of my prayer, 
Loosen their clasping in their sleep. 	
None hear, while solemn hours go by,
The teachings to my heart and I.

Alone, while loved ones gather round,
We’ll fill life’s mission to the last.
Alone, when judgment all have found.
Waiting to hear our sentence passed;
Before the changeless Judge on high, 
We two shall stand—my heart and I.

Companion—pilgrims evermore,
Seeking eternal life to gain;
This sacred vow we make, therefore:
Faithful in duty to remain,
True to the Father throned on high,
And to ourselves—my heart and I.

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
S. L. City, Nov., 1877.


[Column 1]

TRIP TO ST. GEORGE.

VISIT TO THE RELIEF SOCIETIES, AND 
THE TEMPLE.

	We left Salt Lake City on the 6th of Sep-
tember last, on a tour through the southern
settlements.
	At Scipio I found the Relief Society in a
prosperous condition under the presidency
of Mrs. Elizabeth Yates; having greatly
improved since my first visit, in many re-
spects. The sisters manifested much inter-
est in the duties which pertain to ther call-
ing in these organizations,and especially in
regard to storing grain. They had already
been out gleaning two days and were pre-
paring to go again. The president of the
society seemed active and energetic in de-

[Column 2]

signing plans to get means to respond to the
call made upon them. In Fillmore I found
the Relief Society disorganized, the presi-
dent having resigned on account of ill-
health. The sisters with whom I conversed
were very anxious to be reorganized, and
to have a visit from some of the sisters of
Salt Lake City, who take an active part in
promoting the growth of these organiza-
tions, and are therefore prepared to give
counsel and instruction to those who do not
enjoy the same opportunities. At Beaver
and Cedar City we called, and by request
left an appointment to hold a meeting at
each place on our return homeward. We
also called at Kanarra; the sisters there
were very anxious I should meet with
them, but the time was too short,and I had
no opportunity to learn the condition of the
organizations. Arriving at St. George my
emotions on first beholding the Temple
were similar to those which have been so
often expressed by others of the sisters who
have had the privilege of visiting it. Presi-
dent McAllister invited me to meet with the
sisters of St. George in a general meeting,
and gave out the appointment on the Sab-
bath day, for Monday afternoon. The meet-
ing was a very large one, and the spirit
manifested was one of union and love. The
four branches of the Society there, were all
in good condition, and united in good
works under the energetic presidency of
Mrs. Anna Ivins.
	On Saturday morning Sept. 15, in the
Temple I had the pleasure of being present
at the marriage of my son John P. Horne
and Miss Sophronia Spencer, daughter of
Daniel Spencer. During our stay in St.
George we had the privilege of performing
some work in the Temple which we desir-
ed, and after having finished these labors
satisfactorily we left there Sept. 20, to re-
turn home.
	The first place I met with the sisters on
my journey homeward was at Cedar City.
We traveled forty miles that day to reach
there, and held a meeting with the sisters
in the evening, which was well attended,
several of the local brethren were present.
A spirit of energy and good feeling seemed
to prevail, and a desire on the part of the
sisters there to obey counsel, and make as
much progress as possible in home indus-
tries and all good works. The Bishop's
Counselor suggested to the sisters then as-
sembled to petition the City Council for an
appropriation of a piece of land for the ben-
<beit- efit="" of="" the="" relief="" society="" to1="" set="" out="" mul-="" berry="" trees,="" and="" make="" a="" beginning,="" in="" seri-="" culture,="" saying="" he="" would="" use="" his="" infllittlee="" with="" city="" council="" their="" behalf.="" ,at="" beaver="" i="" met="" withtho="" sisters="" as="" per="" appoint.="" 'jndnty.on="" sunday="" afternoon;="" president="" jof.="" stake="" dumber="" 0f="" other="" breth-="" ren="" attended="" meeting.="" good="" spirit="" provailed,="" those="" who="" spoke'="" seemed="" deeply="" interested="" the'future="" welfare="" zioni="" wo="" roturnod="" home="" by="" wayofbich-="" field="" gunnison.="" all="" settlements="" whore="" had="" an="" opportunity="" conversing="" with-="" sisters,="" urged="" upon="" them="" ne-="" cessity="" obedience="" to="" counsel="" sustain-="" ing="" home-industries,="" storing="" up="" wheat,="" encouraging="" literature.="" faith="" energies="" <generally="" seems="" 6="" 'hve'increased;and="" everywhere="" words="" works="" are="" living="" testi-="" mony="" gospel="" de-="" votion="" its="" principles.="" we="" arrived="" safely="" at="" sept.="" 20,="" feeling="" that="" been="" greatly="" blessed="" prospered="" our="" journey.="" itho="" wherever="" i.="" w6.nt="" welcomed="" ;rae="" iacly="" were="" ahxidubi="" “should="" stay="" 7="" rid,="" hold’="" ineetibjjs.="" with.="" tde'm="" -="" there="" is="" -rt="" it="" 'i="" t.="" <r="" .="" jij="" x="" 5="" a-very="" great="" desire="" in,="" these="" isolated-plapes,.="" from="" salt="" lake="" cityhould="" visit="" themj="" 'and="" imparted="" themi'a="" portion="" instruction="" received="" here,="" where="" sit="" as.="" under="" droppipgsof="" sanct-="" uary.,="" mary="" horne.="" "i="" r3="" i...="" <:="" begy8="" 3r="" <="" div="">efit of the Relief Society to set out mul-
berry trees, and make a beginning in seri-
culture, saying he would use his influence
with the City Council in their behalf. At
Beaver I met withthe sisters as per appoint-
ment, on Sunday afternoon; the President
of the Stake and a number of other breth-
ren attended the meeting. A good spirit
prevailed, and those who spoke seemed
deeply interested in the future welfare of
Zion. We returned home by way of Rich-
field and Gunnison. In all the settlements
where I had an opportunity of conversing
with the sisters, I urged upon them the ne-
cessity of obedience to counsel in sustain-
ing home-industries, storing up wheat, and
encouraging home literature. The faith
and energies of the sisters generally seems
to have increased; and everywhere their
good words and works are a living testi-
mony of their faith in the Gospel and de-
votion to its principles. We arrived safely
at home Sept. 29, feeling that we had been
greatly blessed and prospered upon our
journey.
	The sisters wherever I went welcomed
me gladly and were anxious I should stay
and hold meetings with them. There is

[Column 3]

a very great desire in these isolated places,
that the sisters from Salt Lake City should
visit them, and impart to them a portion of
the instruction received here, where we sit
as it were under the droppings of the sanct-
uary.
	MARY I. HORNE.


SHABBY GENTEEL.

			BY MAY MAPLE.

	We are all well acquainted with that class
of individuals who are known as the "shab-
by-genteel,"—persons who to keep up ap-
pearances, constantly live beyond their
means, and because they are too "proud" to
bear the idea of being classed as poor. They
are only in moderate circumstances—some-
times even not that well-off—but does not
matter; they must give just as grand enter-
tainments as their rich neighbors, and con-
stantly ape and imitate the dress and car-
riage of persons far above them in wealth
and social position. It is humiliating to
note the hard work they will undergo, and
stint themselves privately, in order to make
a grand public display—feasting one night,
and then starving for the next month to
pay for such extravagance. They play the
host and look smiling and happy, but a dif-
ferent spirit pervades them, for they know
too well the price they must pay for their
silly indulgence. Short meals for a month
would seem a rather high price to pay for 
an evening's "amusement," but still they
keep on in their silly course, and gather
"friends" who are friends in name only, to
be wafted away from them at the first puff
of adversity. It is an easy matter to be
popular—high-priced dinner parties and
good wines will do that, but it is another
matter to gain friends who will be a help
in the hour of need. No one respects other
persons less for living as well, or dressing
as fine as they can afford, but when they
live beyond their means they bring con-
tempt upon themselves. One can command
the respect of sensible persons by wearing
old clothes gracefully when he (or she) can-
not afford new ones, and it is much more
honorable than running up a lengthy tailor
or milliner's hill to the infinite sorrow of
both buyer and seller—the first thinking how
money can be raised to pay it, and the lat-
ter growing more doubtful as the months
wear by, whether it will ever be paid.
	Poor persons who give receptions and
dress better than they can really afford,
are running a race that will surely lead to
ruin.


RUSSIAN PROVERBS.—When sovereignty
is divided it is very soon destroyed. Make
presents to your judges; you will gain all
you ask. To God glory; to the priest the
candle. When the patriarch is starved, he
steals like any other man. The trainer re-
mains sound while the horse dies. His
right arm is often a man's worst enemy.
Misfortune engenders misfortune, and you
escape the wolf only to be devoured by the
bear. Beware of a tamed wolf, a baptized
Jew, and a reconciled enemy. The robber
does not always steal, but it is as well to be
on the look-out for him. The rich man in
battle shields his face, but the poor man
takes care of his clothes. The old man re-
pents of that of which the young man
boasts. If you give a shirt to a beggar, he
will complain that the linen is too coarse.
Measure ten times and cut once. The
smallest needles are the sharpest prickers.
Do not eat cherries with your superiors—
they will blind you with the stones.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMLINE B. WELLS,		Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
Eaststreets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 15, 1877.


[Column 1]

WOMAN SUFFRAGE AND THE
COMING CONVENTION

	The women of this Territory will see by read-
ing the Deseret News and EXPONENT that
Congress is about to grant a hearing to the la-
dies on the Sixteenth Amendment to the Con-
stitution of the United States. The subject of
the amendment is to establish Universal Suf-
frage through all the States and Territories.
This is certainly an important matter. The
women of Utah should feel the greatest inter-
est in this vital subject. Woman Suffrage has
been granted here and the ladies have enjoyed
the privilege of the ballot for eight years, but
there is no certainty that it will be a perma-
nent thing; already there is a bill filed and
waiting to be acted upon, which would deprive
this people of political, social and religious
rights and privileges, and repeal Woman Suf-
frage here.
	This people have suffered sufficiently in
times past through being deprived of privi-
liges inherited by birth and right of citizenship
to make them generous towards others, and if
it is in the power of the women of Utah to aid
in any degree the women of this American Re-
public, we think it an imperative duty to do so;
and in this laudable undertaking they will re-
ceive the hearty co-operation of all good breth-
ren. Among the ladies of the Congressional
Committee is Mrs. Sara J. Andrews Spencer
who spoke warmly against the ballot being ta-
ken from the women of Utah in the House of
Congress on a former occasion. The sisters
should not forget her kindness and courage; it
requires nobility of character and heroism to
face opposition and speak boldly in defense of
a principle that is not popular.
	There is no doubt evil-minded men are afraid
of the influence of women, and they have
every reason to be, for woman's almost uner-
ring intuition detects the lack of honor and in-
tegrity quickly.
	If any women on the face of the earth should
be able to defend their rights, it is the Mormon
women. What have they not sacrificed in
times past, for the sake of obtaining rights and
liberty of conscience? Thay have faced dan-
gers bravely, crossing the trackless desert, amid
savages and wild beasts, homeless and with
scant food and raiment, laying their loved ones
down in untimely graves in consequence of
tolls and sufferings beyond endurance. The
trials and hardships physical and mental en-
dured by these pioneer women can never be
told. But the prayers and supplications of
mothers, wives and daughters have reached
the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth and have been
answered in blessing upon their heads.
	If the country is ever redeemed from ruin,
government will need the efficient help of in-
telligent women. Give woman the ballot and

[Column 2]

she can aid most essentially the interests of
the nation. It will scarcely be possible for
Congress to refuse Woman Suffrage if dele-
gates appear from every State in the Union.
God is for woman, and there are some knotty
questions which now agitate the public mind
that women could help to unravel. The men
of this nation have not respected the rights of
women as they should, they have allowed
wicked and designing persons, to commit the
foulest wrongs to women, and let them go un-
punished. Men will be held accountable for
these things. What would induce women to
lift up their voices everywhere as they are now
doing, but the sense of wrong and injustice to
their sex, under which they are smarting.
When Suffrage is given to uncivilized or half
civilized men, women are more than ever im-
periled.
	May God give the victory to woman in the
coming issue to which so many noble women
are looking, is our prayer for the women of
America; but whether now, or at some future
time, woman's emancipation from thrall-
dom literally is sure to come. What a
glorious event for the coming New Year would
be the granting of the petition for Universal
Suffrage. How many thousand hosannas
would ring out from the multitudes of women
who have toiled so heroically in the cause,
were this bill to pass, so as to become a part of
the United States Constitution.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	A MERRY CHRISTMAS to our kind patrons.
May peace and good will abound in the habi-
tations of Zion. Salt Lake City is putting on
her holiday attire and making preparations to
celebrate joyfully, the coming Christmas. Z.
C. M. I., the Home Commission Store, and all
large business houses are displaying, artisti-
cally, their choicest goods, for the benefit of
Santa Claus.

	A MEETING of the Committee of Consulta-
tion in the interest of WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
was held in this office Tuesday Dec. 11, at 11
o'clock a. m., Miss E. R. Snow President of
the Committee acting chairman of the meet-
ing. Some general and special business was
transacted. Mrs. E. B. Wells and Mrs. Phebe
Woodruff were added to the Committee. The
meeting adjourned until Tuesday Dec. 18, at
the same hour and place, when further busi-
ness will be transacted. Those of the Com-
mittee who did not attend the last meeting are
again invited.

	WOMAN SUFFRAGE MEETING: A meeting of
some of the prominent, leading ladies was held
Dec. 12, at 11 o'clock at this office; the wo-
men of this Territory having been solicited
by the National Suffrage Association at Wash-
ington to obtain signatures to the Sixteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States. Mrs. E. B. Wells was elected Chair-
man, and Mrs. E. Howard Secretary; Mrs. M.
I. Horne opened the meeting with prayer.
Such measures were taken at this meeting as
were deemed practicable by those present, for
canvassing the city to obtain signatures, and
at the suggestion of Miss E. R. Snow and oth-
ers a special meeting was appointed for the
ladies of Salt Lake County, when a practical
method will be decided upon, for canvassing
the entire Territory. Dismissed with prayer
by Mrs. Zina D. Young.

	A SPECIAL MEETING will be held at the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on Satur-
day, Dec. 22d, 1877, for the purpose of organ-
izing a Presidency of Relief Society for Salt
Lake Co., and also to transact political busi-

[Column 2]
ness in the interest of Woman's Suffrage. All
the presidents and officers of Relief Socioties
in Salt Lake County are invited to be present.
Also all members of these societies and all la-
dies interested upon these subjects. This
meeting is called at the suggestion of
Miss Eliza R. Snow,	Mrs. Priscilla Staines.
Mrs. M. I. Horne,		  "	E. B. Wells.
"	Zina D. Young,	  "	B. W. Smith,
"	Phebe Woodruff,	  "	R. R. Grant,
"	Hannnh T. King,	  "	L. A. Wells,
"	Margaret Mitchell,  "	E. Howard.
	THE FOURTEENTH Ward Relief Society held
their Tenth Annual Meeting Wednesday, the
12th inst., in the Assembly Rooms. The yearly
report was a very satisfactory one, and plainly
proved the ability and business capacity of the
President, M. I. Horne, and her Counselors,
Secretary and assistants in office. Remarks
were made, suitable to the occasion, by several
of the sisters, also Elders George Crismon,
George Taylor, Supt. Sunday School, Bishop
Thomas Taylor, and Elder Edward Stevenson.
The meeting was a pleasant one; after its close
the sisters adjourned to the Relief Society Hall,
where a delicious repast was in waiting. Two
very long tables were set, and the guests were
soon seated and gracefully waited upon to all
the delicacies of the season by the young ladies
of the Ward. The party was a social one and
passed off pleasantly. President John Taylor
and Elders Wilford Woodruff and Franklin D.
Richards arrived at a late hour, and were
warmly greeted by the Ladies.
	THE YOUNG Ladies Association of the Thir-
teenth Ward had a pleasant meeting Thursday
afternoon, Dec. 13th at the residence of their
President Mrs. Elizabeth Thomas. At this
meeting Miss E. R. Snow proposed the name
of the Association should be changed from Re-
trenchment to Mutual Improvement, the mo-
tion was unanimously carried. Several breth-
ren were present by special invitation, among
whom were President John Taylor, Elders
Joseph F. Smith and D. H. Wells, Bishop L. D.
Young, Elder John Nicholson and William
Naylor; also Thomas Miller of New York who
has been visiting in this city for some time
past, but expects shortly to return home.
Many excellent ideas were advanced and much
wise counsel given to the young by those who
addressed them. Elder Joseph F. Smith in
his remarks dwelt specially upon the impor-
tance of the higher education and superior
knowledge women should attain, in order to fit
them for wives and mothers of the elders and
apostles of this church and kingdom. He
thought mothers should be prepared by all the
wisdom and knowledge possible to raise up a
righteous people upon the ea[-]th. The daugh-
ters of Zion should be trained in knowledge of
the principles of the Gospel and should know
for themselves of its truth; alluded to Woman's
voice in the Church, and the privileges she
had of voting etc. which were equal to the
brethren in st[-]ength and power and influence.
He referred briefly but emphatically to the cov-
enant of marriage as believed in by the Latter-
day Saints, and said that marriage was an es-
sential, a vital principle of the Gospel. After
meeting the guests were ushered into the din-
ing-room where a delicious repast was in wait-
ing; some of the yonng girls waited upon the
guests in a quiet, orderly and charming man-
ner, while in the adjoining room, others were
singing accompanied by the organ, which add-
ed still another pleasure to the social enter-
tainment.
	MR. JAMES Dwyer on the evening of Dec.
10, opened his new supply of books, pictures,
toys, stationery and fancy articles. Mr. Dwyer


[Column 1]

is prepared not only to retail books etc. in Salt
Lake City and adjacent towns, but to supply
country places, with articles in his line of
goods. He has suitable books on hand to fit up
choice and elegant libraries, for private fami-
lies and also public libraries for schools, Sun-
day Schools, Young Men's and Young Ladies'
Mutual Improvement Associations, having sup-
plied his establishment with all the best Stand-
ard Histories, the Lives of celebrated men and
women,and all the works of the greatest poets,
male and female, of England and America.
These books are of various qualities of binding
etc. varying in price accordingly. Christmas box-
es made up cheap at Mr. James Dwyer's; work-
boxes, writing-desks, Russian leather porte-
monies, pocket-books, and many other things
suitable for Christmas gifts, can be bought
there at reasonable prices. Santa Claus should
not fail to look in at Mr. Dwyer's as he can
find loads of beautiful and useful things to dis-
tribute on his round this coming Christmas.
	Mr. Dwyer is Special Agent for Heliotype
Engravings, published by James R. Osgood
& Co., of Boston. These engravings are choice
reproductions of the most attractive European
works of art, and are fast gaining unparalleled
popularity. The Heliotype is the only method
known of obtaining for one dollar, pictures
that would otherwise cost ten dollars each.
Tasteful and inexpensive frames will be fur-
nished if desired. These pictures are copied
from paintings by the best artists. There is a
very great variety of them, suited to the tastes
of different persons. Will Santa Claus please
call at Mr. Dwyer's.
	THE WOMEN of Utah have been solicited to
aid the National Suffrsge Convention at Wash-
ington, in preparing for the Sixteenth Amend-
ment. Conventions to be held at Lincoln Hall,
9th and D. Sts.Washington, D. C., January 8th
and 9th 1878, which will be the Tenth Annual
Washington Convention. We give below the
Circular sent to us.
	All Woman Suffrage Associations and all
friends of woman suffrage throughout the
country who believe that it is the duty of Con-
gress to submit a Sixteenth Amendment to the
Federal Constitution prohibiting the several
states from disfranchising United States citi-
zens on account of sex, are cordially invited to
send delegates and letters to this Convention.
	To secure the passage of this Amendment by
the Forty-fifth Congress, making allowances
for all the contingencies, we need to be sure of
fifty votes in the Senate, and two hundred
votes in the House of Representatives. It is
therefore of vital importance that delegates
should be present at this Convention from
every State and Territory, and that each one
should call upon her entire state delegation in
Congress and urge them to attend the Conven-
tion and hear the discussion of the greatest po-
litical question of the age.
	There are members in both Houses of Con-
gress who assert that no woman has ever per-
sonally appealed to them on this subject. Yet
these are the men who hold our whole question
in the hollow of their hands.
	That there may be time for these personal
appeals, the Washington Resident Congres-
sional Committee have made arrangements to
entertain all delegates for one week. Delegates
are requested, upon their arrival, to call and
register their names at Riggs' House, 15th and
G Streets, where they will be met by members
of the local Committee and assigned to com-
fortable quarters.
	All delegates are requested to meet at the
Ladies' Reception Room of the Senate at 10.30
A. M., Monday, Jan. 7th, 1878.

[Column 2]

	The Committee on Privileges and Elections
have unanimously voted to grant hearings to
delegates from every section of the country,
upon Sixteenth Amendment Petitions, begin-
ning January 9, at 10.30 A. M. A favorable
report from this Committee will have immense
weight with both Houses of Congress and all
the State Legislatures. Delegates will also be
heard from Judiciary Committee of House of
Representatives.
	The Senate Committee on Indian Affairs has
just reported favorably a bill to enfranchise the
Indians, who have always made of their wo-
men beasts of burden. This is an additional
peril to the women citizens of the United
States. The Mexicans, Half-breeds and igno-
rant, vicious men voted solid against Woman
Suffrage in Colorado, while everywhere in the
United States the dram-seller, the drunkard,
the profligate help to make the laws which
control the property, the wages, the persons,
and the children of the intelligent women of
this Republic.
	The Forty-Fourth Congress spent month
after month investigating frauds in remote
states, protecting the rights of men who did
not know how to read the ballots they cast,
while all the wives and mothers, sisters and
daughters in the land are forbidden to vote
for the party of their choice, or to exercise
their right of self-governmeet at the ballot
box.
	Then let the free-born women citizens of
this boasted Republic, defrauded of every right
man claims for himself, once more assemble
under the shadow of the National Capitol, and
demand in the sacred name of Liberty, an
Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States protecting the rights of women citizens.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

DISCOURSE
BY 
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG,
DELIVERED
In the Tabernacle, Ogden, at a Meeting of the
Relief Societies of Weber County,
July 19th, 1877.

REPORTED BY JAMES TAYLOR.

[CONTINUED.]

	One of the nicest things in the world is to let
an enemy alone entirely, and it mortifies him
to death. If your neighbors talk about you
and you think they do wrong in speaking evil
of you, do not let them know that you ever
heard a word, and conduct yourselves as if
they always did right, and it will mortify them,
and they will say, "We'll not try this game
any longer." I have seen men, and women
also, that are never happy until they are miser-
able, and never easy until they are in pain.
	These are little things; but is not the world
made up of little things? The whole earth is
composed of these small atoms of sand. Our
lives are made up of little simple circumstan-
ces that amount to a great deal when they are
brought together, and sum up the whole life of
the man or woman; and yet in our passing from
one to another our little acts and incidents
seem to be very minute or simple, but we find
that they amount to a great deal.
	Now, sisters, will you learn these things. I
want to see the children of this people grow as
they should; I want to go a little farther with
regard to our children. Commence, mothers,
just as quick as the child is old enough to un-
derstand, which is quite young. They observe
the acts and doings of the mother and whoever
is present. From these acts they imbibe their

[Column 2]

first impressions. Now, mothers, do you want
your children to be saints, when they are grown
up? Do you want your sons and daughters to
be good and great, and their lives filled up with
usefulness? "Certainly, with all my heart."
Then lay that foundation for their future life
by teaching each little child what it should do.
Teach that child honesty, uprightness and
truthfulness. Never permit a falsehood to be
told, nor the color of a falsehood without cor-
rection. Train that child by your own acts
and words, from its infancy, so it may imbibe
the principle in its own heart to be perfectly
honest. Teach that child to believe in God our
Heavenly Father. Teach it to believe, to have
confidence in Him.
	"Why, he is the author of your lives. Here
are your father and mother with regard to your
natural body." As soon as they can under-
stand anything at all, teach them.
	"Yes, my little child, but you have a spirit
within you. Were it not for this spirit you
would not have life in you. Here are the fath-
er and mother of your tabernacle; but you have
a spirit in you, and the father of that spirit is
our Heavenly Father, whom we serve as our
God. You must have implicit confidence in
this Being. You must depend upon Him al-
ways. If you are in danger, in the least, you
must believe in God, and ask Him to rescue
you, to preserve you; and your faith must be
in the name of Him that He has given, whom
He calls His only begotten son, to die a ransom
for our sins." And as soon as they can under-
stand, teach them with regard to the original
sin. Teach them to have implicit confidence
in the Father through the Lord Jesus Christ;
and every time they need wisdom to ask for
wisdom, and ask for understanding; and every
time they are in trouble, ask our Heavenly
Father to give them comfort, and they will
feel joyous instead of grievous, and will feel a
buoyant feeling instead of cast down. Teach
the children to pray, that when they are large
enough to go into the field with their father,
they may have the faith that if they are in
danger they will be protected. Teach them
that those good angels that are ministering
spirits, are their angels, to guard and protect
the just and pure, watch over them continu-
ally. And teach them—I am sorry to say that
there are not many mothers who do teach it—
that they may grow up with this understand-
ing that our Heavenly Father takes cogniz-
ance of all our acts and doings, and of us as in-
dividuals, and that His eye is over us, and 
there is not so much as a hair of our heads falls
to the ground without the notice of our Heav-
enly Father. Teach them these things and
they will grow up into this habit. You may
call it tradition, but it is an excellent one.
You can sow the seeds of infidelity and they
will grow there. Teach the children so that
when they go out of the presence of their fath-
er and mother, God is in all their thoughts.
Can you come to this understanding, mothers?


THE only woman's paper published in
America in the German language, is the
"Fortschritt" (the German for progress),
published weekly in New York City by
Anna Metz Ryland.


MRS. Elizabeth Oakes Smith, whose writ-
ings have been widely circulated for many
years, and who has distinguished herself as
an author in prose and poetry of real merit,
has charge, at present, as pastor, of an In-
dependent Church, at Canastota, N. Y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			GRAIN MEETING.

	REPORT READ AT FIRST ANNUAL MEET-
		ING, HELD IN THE COUNCIL HOUSE
		S. L. City, Nov. 17, 1877.

				CONTINUED.
	Miss E. R. Snow said: "I am pleased to
hear the report of what our sisters have ac-
complished; the subject was new to us, we
had many obstacles to meet, but I thank the
<havensucceedod as="" well.-as="" we="" yhavepistill-dtlooks="" very,="" little="" bpmpared'to="" nwhat)is="" before="" us;="" the="" lord="" nevenjspeaks="" in.iyaln?="" can.="" (depend="" on.hist="" word,and="" know="" that="" a="" famine="" is="" ,cpmipg.q="" :5v®="" hould="" taka="" into="" cpp9ideratiop,="" that.wo<are="" world'will="" want="" fp6d,="" we,ought,to="" have="" at="" letist="" sdtfdfr="" bti&hfels="" orwh&t'riext="" lyeatf="" tve="" hdvecbutlittle="" tihad-to="" plephfe="" for="" utile="" fer&ft="" ovgnt&tkahard'corriingj'="" ail,j!v'="" -hifcwe’jare="" very="" thankful="" ‘tor'the'="" hmp="" hafetedeived="" from="" brethre'niri'="" botoe="" -="" places="" they’have="" ‘="" "rendered="" 'great="" assistance="" to="" dh="" ©women="" lin.thisiihpb'rtahtiundertak-="" dingj="" h="" yeif="" in'="" i="" attending;="" ito="" he;="" gathering="" and="" stpring.of="" wheat;="" w©="">Lord that we have succeeded as well as we
have; still it looks very little compared to
what is before us. The Lord never speaks
in vain; we can depend on His word, and
we know that a famine is coming. We
should take into consideration, that we are
standing as Egypt formerly stood, that is,
preparing for the time when the people of
the world will want food. We ought to
have at least 50,000 bushels of wheat next
year; we have but little time to prepare for
the great events that are coming.
	We are very thankful for the help we
have received from the brethren; in some
places they have rendered great assistance
to the women in this important undertak-
ing. Yet, in attending to the gathering
and storing of wheat, we must not let other
important duties be set aside. I consider
it as very important to guide and lead the
young people in the ways of righteousness
and truth, and we have so much to do, and
so many duties to perform, that every mo-
ment of our lives is called for, either in re-
flection or action."
	Mrs. M. I. Horne said: "I look on the
grain movement as a very important one;
we have done pretty well, considering the
amount of discouragement we had to con-
tend with. I often think that some of the
brethren need converting in this cause, for
they ridicule the idea of women being
called on to store and take care of wheat. I
feel that in the future we will accomplish
the object we have set out to perform—I
feel the Lord will bless our efforts.
	"We should ascertain the best way to
keep our grain good and sound; every set-
tlement should have a store-house, built in
such a manner as to keep the grain in good
condition, and it should be turned over and
examined once or twice a year, to see that
no insect, or anything that would destroy
it, is in it. We must not weary in well-
doing. I am pleased with the remarks of
our brethren; we know that the man and
the woman is one before the Lord. If we
educate and qualify ourselves to be wise
mothers, we will elevate the coming gener-
ations. I trust that our report next year
will be much larger than it is this, that we
may have a larger than it is this, that we
may have a large amount of wheat on hand,
well and carefully stored."
	Miss E. R. Snow said: "If our sisters will
use their persuasive powers, the young
brethren will help them to put up the gran-
aries, and I am sure they will feel honored
in being solicited to assist in such impor-
tant business. It has been reported that the
wheat has been sold: I hope my sisters will
pay no attention to any such story; no one
has any right to touch a grain of it, only to
see that it is in good condition."
	Mrs. E. B. Wells said: "I feel that this is
an important occasion. I am thankful for
the good instruction we have received from
our Presiding Bishop and from President
Taylor. It looks as though we had not
done very much, but considering every-
thing I think we have done very well. I
hope we will be able to report 50,000 bushels
stored, at our next Annual meeting. There
are some wards in this city, and several set-
tlements, that have not sent in any report,

[Column 2]
and we know they have wheat stored. We
keep separate books for the wheat, and at
our first meeting we advised all the Socie-
ttes to do so.
	Our reports that we have received specify
that the wheat reported is in good condi-
tion, and how stored; whether in bins
owned by the Societies, or whether in bins
lent them by the Bishops, or other brethren.
We have had the wheat stored by the Cen-
tral Committee examined, and I feel safe in
reporting to you that it is in good condition
and all there. It should be fully under-
stood, that the wheat we are now using our
energies to collect and store away, is stored
for Zion.
	I do not think it wise to take the wheat
that has been donated for building store-
houses; but if the sisters will, as Sister
Snow says, use their persuasive powers,'
the young men will help in erecting store-
houses. I believe that the sisters all feel
united to do our best to carry out the instruc-
tions we have received. There is a little
more time, and I would like to hear from
some of the sisters."
	Bishop Hunter said: "It is very import-
ant and highly commendable to gather and
store wheat, I wish to say that the dona-
tions for the Temple, from the Relief Socie
ty, have been very liberal indeed; they
have amounted to thousands of dollars.
The donations sent in for the St. George
Temple by the sisters were truly astonish-
ing; even this week there has come into
the Tithing Office dollars and dollars, as
donations to our Temple here. For your
information, I will try and get my clerk,
Brother Goddard, to write out a state-
ment of what has been given in a short
time. I know that the people will take
pleasure in giving in their tithing and their
offerings, and the Lord will bless them for
it. I know that many would have suffered
only for the efficient aid rendered them by
the Relief Societies. Many things are in
your power to do, and in doing them you
will be blessed, and you are blessed."
	Mrs. Jane S. Richards, from Ogden, said:
"I came here to-day to receive instruction,
but I can say that Weber County is trying
to help in this good work; we have as our
report to the President tells, over 500 bush-
els stored, and we hope to do better next
year. I would have been glad to have heard
some instructions or suggestions given in
regard to taking care of our wheat, as we
are young in the business we need some
counsel."
	Mrs. E. A. Whitney said:  "I am glad to
be with you, my sisters; I have been away
resting for some time past, and am thank-
ful to be able to come among you again.
Joseph Smith said that the Relief Society, if
they followed the connsel of the Priesthood,
would be the greatest help in doing good
that ever was known on the earth, and
would be the means of doing a great work.
The teachings we have heard to-day are
true. They are blessings given by the Holy
Spirit, and they must not to be passed over
carelessly. I have held on to the promises
given us in early days in this church. Jo-
seph also said that the cities that would reject
the Gospel would feel the judgments, and I
thought then I should not live to see it ful-
filled, but I have. These things are being
fulfilled every day. I know there is great
faith among the sisters; I have felt the in-
fluence of their prayers, and been healed
when the sisters have prayed for me in
their meetings." Sister Whitney then sang
a song of Zion. Meeting adjourned until
Nov. 18, 1878. The congregation rose and
sand "Praise God," &c. Benediction by
President John Taylor.


R. S. REPORTS.

	CEDAR CITY, IRON Co., Nov. 7th.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We here send you a few items with re-
gard to our welfare, and our integrity in all
the principles of the great and glorious Lat-
ter-day work in which we are engaged. We
realize that the women of Utah have an
important missson to perform. Our various
home duties keep us fully employed, the
sisters here do their own house-work with
the aid of their daughters, also the family
sewing, thereby saving a great outlay for
our husbands; but still we do not neglect
our meetings, which as a general thing are
well attended and all feel anxious to per-
form the labor assigned them. We are so
far from head quarters that we have not had
the privilege of many visits from our lead-
ing sisters, therefore can scarcely keep pace
with the Northern Societies; but the past
summer we have had several good visits
from sisters passing to and from St. George;
their instructions will be a great benefit to
us in conducting our business affairs in the
future
	The young ladies were organized a year
ago, they manifest a good spirit and are anx-
ious to progress; they are a set of good girls,
and only need some one to lead out in dif-
ferent branches of home industry, and so
direct their energies that they may become
useful members of the community.
	May you, dear sister, be blessed and pros-
pered in your undertaking of spreading
light and truth, is the prayer of the women
of Cedar.
			MARY A. LUNT, Cor. Sec'y.

	NEPHI, Dec. 3rd, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you a few items in regard to the
welfare of the sisters here. We have not
sent any word in reference to storing grain,
because we had so little at the time the call
was made to report; since that time we
have gathered considerable more; we have
no place of our own at present to put our
wheat, but expect to have in a short time;
until then, one of our good brethren kindly
gives us room in his granary. There was
some wheat gleaned here after harvest hut
not as much as in many other places; still
the faithful few are trying to do all they can
to lay up grain and attend to every known
duty.
	We think there is a very visible spirit of
improvement in our settlement; all who
have a desire to see Zion prosper seem to
be willing to do all they can to help along
the good cause. When Apostles Woodruff
and Snow returned from Sanpete they met
with us in the Relief Society Hall; we had
a most excellent discourse from Elder
Woodruff. It was full of interest, instruc-
tion, comfort and consolation to the sisters.
He touched on many subjects, dwelt at some
length on the storing of grain for Zion, silk-
culture, home-manufacture, and with great
earnestness on the subject of training child-
ren and preparing them to be able with the
assistance of the spirit of God, to bear off
this kingdom triumphantly.
	Elder Lorenzo Snow bore testimony to the
truth of what Elder Woodruff had said,
made a few remarks on home manufacture,
showed, the necessity of our becoming self-
sustaining, and not dependant on Babylon
for anything. The teachings we received
from them were a most excellent treat,
which I think will long be remembered
and I hope prove a great blessing do us;
many seem more determined to live their


religion, and I think are striving to do all
they can to fill their missions honorably
here on the earth. Our Relief Society is
increasing in attendance at our meetings,
and there seems to be a desire among the
sisters to be more faithful. President George
Teasdel, Elders Grover, J. G. Bigler and
others frequently visit our meetings and
speak words of encouragement and comfort
to us. Our worthy President, Mrs. Amelia
Goldsborough joins with me in kind love and
many good wishes for the prosperity of the
EXPONENT.
	Ever praying that God will bless His peo-
ple and preserve us in the truth, I remain as
ever, 		A. L. BIGLER, Secretary.
	EAST PORTERVILLE, Nov. 26, 1877,
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	The Relief Society of this place is yet
alive, and trying to keep pace with the
times, and follow the good advice which is
given to us. We hold our meetings semi-
monthly, with an average attendance of
thirty-five members. We are desirous to
carry out the counsel of President Young,
in regard to storing grain. The sisters
have donated liberally here, according to
their means, and our wheat is well stored
and in a good condition.
	Yours, with respect,
		MRS. ANGELINE PORTER, Pres't.
			MISS AMY PORTER, Sec'y.


﻿WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		111


[Column 1]
VISIT TO NORTHERN SETTLEMENTS.

			SISTER'S MEETINGS.

	Monday, Oct. 22nd, we left Salt Lake
City to visit some of the Northern settle-
ments. Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Zina D.
Young and myself arrived in Mendon, safe
and well, where we were warmly welcomed.
	Tuesday, 23d, we met with the Relief
Society at 2 o'clock, had an excellent meet-
ing; the sisters expressed themselves
greatly blessed with the good counsel and
instructions given them by Sisters Snow
and Young. In the evening we met with
the Young Ladies' and Gentlemen's Mu-
tual Improvement Associations; had a good
meeting, every one felt the Spirit of God
was there.
	Wednesday, 24th, Bishop Hughes kindly
accompanied us to Wellsville, where we at-
tended two meetings, and were hospitably
entertained by Sisters Howell and Whiton;
we had excellent meetings; many of the
brethren honored us with their presence,
and exhorted the sisters to cherish the in-
structions given, and appreciate the pres-
ence of Sister Snow by putting in practise
the counsel she gave.
	Thursday, 25th, we visited Hyrum;
found the sisters very busy making ready
for a good time temporally as well as spirit-
ually. Mrs. Liljenquist with the rest were
doing all they could to make our visit en-
joyable, and, as far as we were concerned,
they were certainly successful. Here we
were surprised with strawberries, fresh
from the vines of Sister Williams that morn-
ing; and Sister Snow was presented with a
pair of homemade slippers, of neat design,
by Sister C. Liljenquist in behalf of the
sisters of Hyrum. In the afternoon we
met with the Relief Society of that place,
and many sisters from Paradise, (where we
were unable to visit at that time,) were
present; Bishop McBride and his Counsel-
ors, with many other brethren also met
with us, and made many encouraging re-
marks. After meeting we dined with about
sixty of the Saints. In the evening we

[Column 2]
met with the young of both sexes, as well
as many of the older brethren and sisters,
and we truly had a spiritual feast, which
was enjoyed by all present.
	Friday morning, 26th, we went to Mill-
ville. After dining with Mrs. Pitkin, at-
tended a general meeting; Miss E. R. Snow,
by request, organized the Young Ladies'
Mutual Improvement Association of Mill-
ville, and gave them advice and encour-
agement to go onward in the good work.
Bishop Pitkin said he knew our visit would
be a blessing to the sisters; that he felt
greatly blessed himself.
	After meeting we started for Providence,
and arrived about five o'clock; we were
kindly entertained at the residence of Mr.
and Mrs, Madison. We met with the sis-
ters in the evening; Miss Snow organized
a Mutual Improvement Association of the
Young Ladies of Providence; we had an
excellent meeting. After returning to
Elder Frank Madison's, we were the recipi-
ents of a serenade from the young ladies
and gentlemen of that settlement.
	Saturday morning, 27th, we arrived at
Logan, and dined with Mrs. Libbie Benson.
We met with the Young Ladies Mutual
Improvement Association at 1 o'clock; af-
terwards with the Relief Society. The
meetings were excellent, and we realized
that in blessing we are blessed.
	After meeting we journeyed on to Smith-
field; we had rather a cold ride, which en-
abled us to appreciate the blessing of the
homelike firesides and kind hearts we met
there. In the morning we found that por-
tion of the earth clad in her beautiful robe
of white, so that we could exclaim! "The
snow, the snow, the beautiful snow!" Yet
we felt sad; here we were to part with our
beloved Sister Snow for a time, as her busi-
ness required her presence at home. We
met with the Saints Sunday morning, 28th,
at 9 o'clock. Miss Snow encouraged, coun-
seled and exhorted the sisters to live their
religion, and after blessing the people of
Smithfield, Bishop Roskelly accompanied
her to the depot and she was wafted away
from our sight. Mrs. Young and I both
felt sorrowful at parting with Sister Snow;
we regretted the absence of our more than
mother, and knew the sisters wherever we
visited would be disappointed at not seeing
her.
	Sunday afternoon at the request of Bish-
op Daynes and Mrs. Woolf, we visited Hyde
Park and met with the Saints there. We
had a good meeting; returned to Smith-
field, and met with the Mutual Improve-
ment Association, by the request of Bishop
Roskelly. We really felt that night that
God had been with us and blessed us in our
feeble efforts.
	Monday morning, 29th, we reached Rich-
mond, dined with Mrs. Abagail Pond; met
with the Relief Society in the afternoon.
Were entertained at the house of Brother
and Sister Traveller, and met with the
young ladies and gentlemen in the evening;
Mrs. Zina Young, by request, organized the
Young Ladies M. I. A.; forty-three mem-
bers were enrolled. We had good meet-
ings and the presence of several brethren.
	Tuesday, 30th, visited Franklin. Mrs.
Young organized the young ladies; we
were blessed with the presence of Bishop
Lorenzo Hatch and other brethren, who
blessed and encouraged us to do all we could
to promote the interests of the kingdom of
God.
	We next visited Weston; held meeting
there the same evening. Bishop Allen and
Counselors were present, and requested
Mrs. Young to organize the young ladies;
we had an excellent meeting, stayed with

[Column 3]
Mrs. E. Clark, and Wednesday, 31st, we
went to Malad, accompanied by Brother
Henry Gossman; we felt honored and
blessed by this venerable good brother.
	Thursday, Nov. 1st, we visited Samaria
and Malad Relief Societies, and organized
the young ladies of both places. We spent
two nights in Malad, one with Mrs. Good-
liffe and Mrs. Robins, and one with Mrs.
Daniels.
	Friday, 2d, we reached Portage and were
entertained by Bishop Hoskins and family;
truly we enjoyed our visit with them. Met
with the sisters, and organized the Young
Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association.
The Spirit of God was poured out abun-
dantly; the Bishop and brethren present
spoke very encouragingly to all.
	Saturday, 3d, we returned to Cache Co.,
escorted over the divide by Brother Gibbs.
The blessing of God was over us while
traveling through the cloud and storm.
We reached Clarkston that evening; had
an enjoyable meeting there. Sunday, 4th,
arrived at Logan; attended Conference,
and that evening we returned to Mendon,
stayed one night at Bishop Hughes, and
enjoyed the society of his family; visited
the sisters, and next morning started home
by train, and arrived safely, where we met
our friends awaiting us.
					ELIZABETH DAVIS.


WOMAN'S RECORD.

	MRS. Sarah J. Hale, the editor of Godey's
Magazine for fifty years, will take her leave
of active literary life with the December
number of that very popular journal. Mrs.
Hale has entered upon her ninetieth year.
She has been a great literary worker.
	A RATHER remarkable woman, in com-
parison with the masses, is Miss Rebecca
Boyle, of Phoenixville, Penn. "Woman's
Words" tells us she is the leading business
man of the town where she resides. That
she began with teaching school, saved
money, started a dry goods store, enlarged
it, bought land and built, then started a
restaurant. Now she is doing a large busi-
ness, sending her wagons all over the town
and through the adjacent country; she owns
three stores, lets offices in her building,
and has a nice little home besides. She
twice ran for school director, on the Demo-
cratic ticket—not that she expected to be
elected, for Chester Co. is Republican, but
to test a principle—and she received more
votes than there are Democrats there;
many of the young men who had been
pupils of hers voted for her.	
	MISS Caroline I. Brooks, who attracted so
mnch attention at the Centennial with her
butter statuary, is giving exhibitions of her
skill, to raise funds to enable her to work
in marble.


A YOUNG man writes to a New York pa-
per that he wants to be an editor, to which
the editor of the New York paper replies—
"Canst thou draw up a leviathan with a
hook thou lettest down? Canst thou hook
up great ideas from the depth of thine in-
tellect, and clean, scale and fry them at five
minutes' notice? Canst thou write edito-
rials as they may be wanted—to measure?
Canst thou write an editorial to fit in a
three-quarter column of the paper, which
shall be in length just twenty-two inches,
having three inches of fine sentiment four
inches from the beginning, and nine inches
of humor in the middle, and an outburst of
maxim and precept nine and three-quarter
inches long at the close?"


112		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SCIENTIFIC NOTES.

	Piazzi Smith, Astronomer Royal for Scot-
land, in his observations by earth-ther-
mometers, made at the Royal Observatory,
Edinburgh, has summed up the chief fea-
tures discernible for thirty-nine years; after
eliminating the more seasonal effects of or-
dinary summer and winter, like this:
	1. "Between 1837 and 1876 three great
heat-waves from without struck this part of
the earth, viz.: the first in 1840, the second
in 1858, and the third in 1868.
The next such visitation may be looked for
in 1879, within limits of half a year each
way. 
	2. The next feature in magnitude and
certainty is, that the periods of minimum
temperature, or cold, are not either in or
anywhere near the middle time between
the crests of those three chronologically
identified heat-waves, but are comparative-
ly close to them on either side, at a distance
of about a year, or a year and a half, so
that the next such cold wave is due at the
end of the present year." Mr. Smith, in
his letter, goes on to say, that as the out-
look from such observations are not agree-
able, he would be quite willing, for the
general good, to suppose himself mistaken,
&c. He thinks his conclusions will be es-
pecially unpleasant to political agitators,
who are moving amongst the colliers to per-
suade them to decrease the out-put of coal
at every pit's mouth.


INTERESTING ART RELICS.—On the road
from the Mount of Olives to Bethany the
remains of a Crusaders' church have re-
cently been discovered. In his official re-
port, which appears in the Athenæum,
Lieutenant Kitchener states that tradition
has long pointed out this spot as the place
where the Savior mounted his ass for his
triumphal entry into Jerusalem. In the
chapel, which dates from the twelfth or
thirteenth century, there is an almost square
block of masonry covered with paintings,
which are well executed, but badly disfig-
ured. On the south side is represented the
raising of Lazarus; on the north are the
disciples fetching the ass; on the west there
is a niche covered by an arch which was
probably supported by two small columns;
below the niche is a portion of an inscrip-
tion still remaining. This square block is
supposed to be either an altar, a shrine, or
a portion of the rock cut out and orna-
mented. The walls of the small chamber
to the south are also painted with a design
of squares containing circles, and the walls
of the church are painted in a common pat-
tern. The shield of Hamseh has been
taken down from the mosque by the pacha,
and is now in the Serail. It appears to
have been the cover to a baptismal font, or
of some vessel, and is made of bronze, con-
taining a great deal of silver. The work
appears to be Italian of the twelfth century,
and is very beautiful.


THE EASTERN war is still raging; Plevna
has fallen, yet the Turks made a brave de-
fense up to the last crisis. Osman Pasha,
it is said, annihilated two divisions of the
Russians. The terms upon which Russia
will make peace are causing a good deal of
excitement in England, and it is thought
probable that should Rusria insist in her
present policy, England will send a strong
fleet to Constantinople. No human power
can divine what will be the consequences
of this terrible war.


[Column 1]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.
	The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

	[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

		NEW FALL STOCK.

	F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

	THE LADIES
		Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
					IN THE
		OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descriptions.
			MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

		ROWE'S
			CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
	Big Boot, Main Street.

	No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

		HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
	CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
	READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
			AT
TEASDEL'S.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
			FOR ALL KINDS OF
	Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
		CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
	Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
			MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

	Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND RESIDENCE in 12th Ward on
2d South St., between 5th and 6th East Sts.,
six blocks East of Post Office.

[Column 2]
	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

	NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
	DRY GOODS,
					IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
	Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

