Vol. 6.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 15, 1878.		No. 20


[For the EXPONENT.
	TWAS BUT A DREAM.

ORIGINAL.

A dream I dreamed—not such as comes at night,
	When lost in sleep;
'Twas not a dream wherein the golden light
Of summer streams upon the longing sight,
Thrilling the heart with such a wild delight
	As makes it leap.
'Twas not a dream wherein the harvest fields
	Were just turned brown;
Nor when the ripened corn-field fulness yields,
To the blessed pow'r the sun-burned farmer wields;
Nor gaping range a favored valley shields
	With rugged frown.
'Twas not a dream recalling back a tear
	That longed to flow,
And trembled in the eyes of one then dear;
Nor where sad Autumn's tints through green appear;
Nor songs of birds fall soft upon the ear
	As falling snow.
'Twas not a dream where woodland echoes ring,
	Then hie away.
'Twas not a dream of newly wakening Spring,
Nor noonday scenes, with wild bees on the wing,
Nor winding forest path, nor garden swing,
	Nor childish play.
'Twas not a dream that tearfully recalls
	Joys once my own.
'Twas not a dream wherein the pale moon falls
In languor on some ruined ivy walls,
And with a ghostly whiteness floods the halls
	Whence life has flown.
'Twas not a dream wherein I fondly look
	On dear ones flown.
'Twas not a dream in which a rippling brook
Glides on through meadows sweet, with sudden crook
Laving the banks near some sequestered nook
	To lovers known.
But 'twas a dream wherin, supremely blest,
	Sweet thonghts unfold;
A dream wherein I sit me down to rest,
The while the golden sun glides down the west,
And blends, upon the ocean's waving crest,
	The green and gold.
A pleasant dream of breathing eventide—
	A Summer's eve—
When, half to wakefulness and sleep allied,
The mind, in hopeful numbers, would confide
The silent longings that have breathed—and died—
	And made it grieve.
A day-dream, when with partly closed eyes
	And heart aglow,
The mind, "as swift as meditation," flies
Ear from this world of tears and endless sighs,
And seeks the fairy realms where haply lies
	Surcease from woe.
A dream that blissfully reveals to view
	A land of rest,
Where faintest hopes assume a golden hue,
And gladness thrills in every heart anew,
To feel that e'en our wildest thoughts prove true
	And all are blest.
A joyful dream, where loved ones meet once more,
	Nor e'er shall part;
A dream where sweet Contentment, with her store
Of richest blessings, sits smiling at the door,
Where Poverty had often been before,
	With aching heart.
A dream in which Fame only can disclose
	Charms none would weep;
A dream wherein a sweetness of repose
O'er all the soul a gentle mantle throws,
And while my dream with new enchantment glows
	I sink to sleep.
'Tis strange, that wakened, one should be inclined
	To such a theme;
That all should be so palpably defined,
And dearest hopes with fairest scenes be twined,
And I, alas! should sadly wake to find,
	'Twas but a dream.
Salt Lake City, Feb., 1878.


[For the EXPONENT.
			INTEMPERANCE.

	Paul, in his epistle to the Corinthians,
writes: "Know ye not that the unrighteous
shall not inherit the Kingdom of God? nor
thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor
revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the
Kingdom of God." So far we have the
word of God on this subject, in favor of
temperance. in these last days He hath
said, "Inasmuch as any man drinketh wine,
or strong drink, among you, behold, it is
not good, neither meet in the sight of your
Heavenly Father." The growing use of
alcohol is destroying the human family; it
is the parent of crime, the cup of misery,
the source of ignorance, poverty, and death.
It is one of the greatest evils with which
the world is contaminated, and leads to
more crime than any other vice; the drink-
ing of liquor is increasing and working
great evil in this Territory. It has ruined
many men, and brought many families to
poverty and want; an evil whose vast power
cannot be over-estimated; "by their fruits
ye shall know them." "O," says the tempt-
er, "take a drink, it will not hurt you;" it
is by taking a drink now and then that men
and boys learn to be drunkards. So with
swearing and every other sin—it is the
first act that must be shunned. Can a man
claim to be a servant of the Most High to
be tempting his brethren, as does the sa-
loon-keeper, or the dealer in strong drinks,
when he wants patronage for his unholy
trade? True it is not the only road to per-
dition, but it is one of the most frequented.
There are many of our youth who are grad-
ually drawing nigh to that wide and wicked
way; the breath of intemperance has al-
ready scorched the brow of some of our
young men, and are such men fit to become
the husbands of our daughters and the fa-
thers of children? It is a wolf in sheep's
clothing, a destroyer of the innocent, the 
virtuous and pure. The effect of liquor
cuts down youth in all its vigor and extin-
guishes natural affection; it blights parent-
al hope, and brings down age in sorrow to
the grave. It covers the land with idleness
and poverty. It is time some measure was
taken to hinder this sale of ardent spirits.
This subject should be kept before the pub-
lic, until some movement can be determined
upon, to avert, if possible, this evil spread-
ing among our people. In years that are
passed there were no grog-shops to allure
and pollute the habits and morals of our
children. Would it were so now! but out-
side influences have crept in and these are
some of their fruits. Would that we could
see our children growing up pure and un-
spotted from the evils of the world! O that
there could be written in letters of fire, to
burn into their hearts, this sentence: Touch
not, handle not, taste not, neither tempt
others to do so. Resist the tempter and he
will flee from you.			M. J. C.


IF PERSONS were as willing to be pleas-
ant and as anxious to please in their own
homes as they are in the company of their
neighbors, they would have the happiest
homes in the world.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	HON. GEORGE B. Loring spoke at the
Middlesex Club dinner, recently.

	THAT EXCELLENT paper the "Jewish
Messenger," lately celebrated its twenty-
first birthday.

	IN THE Congressional record of Feb. 12,
1878, mention is made of the suffrage peti-
tions from this Territory. They were pre-
sented by Mr. Dorsey and Mr. Hoar in the
Senate and referred to the Committee on
privileges and elections.

	THE GREAT powers of Europe have de-
cided npon a peace-congress to convene at
Vienna, Austria, on the 28th inst., to decide
upon the policy to be pursued in future
emergencies, and methods of reconciliation.
Dispatches say Germany will claim the
presidency by proscriptive right whether
Bismarck attends or not.

	THE "Woman's Suffrage Journal" is an
English monthly edited by Lydia E. Beck-
er. It contains full information of the pro-
gress of the movement for removing the
Electoral Disabilities of Women in England.
It also records and discusses other questions
affecting the welfare of women—such as
Education, Employment, industrial or pro-
fessional, and Legislation affecting their
property and personal rights. Price for one
copy monthly (post free for one year), two
shillings. Communications for the editor,
and orders for the "Journal," to be ad-
dressed 28 Jackson's Row, Albert Square,
Manchester, or Messrs. Trubner & Co., Pa-
ternoster Row, London, England.


SCIENTIFIC NOTES.

	During the Miocene period it is certain,
from the character of fossil plants found at
Atanekerdluk, Greenland, and elsewhere,
that the temperature must have been 30 de-
grees warmer than at present, as far north
as the seventeenth parallel. In the begin-
ning of the Cretaceous period the Arctic
climate must have been of not only a tem-
perate, but sub-tropical nature. How to ex-
plain the change of climate is one of the
most interesting of physical problems. A
change of the position of the poles of the
earth would account for the facts; but how
did the position of the poles change? Mr.
Twisden has examined, mathematically,
the geological hypothesis that the displace-
ment of the earth's axis of figure would be
sufficient, and he concludes that the neces-
sary deviation of twenty degrees would be
followed by a tidal wave of twice the depth
of the ocean. Messrs. Huxley and Knowles,
in summing up the recent inquiries regard-
ing the subject, thus guardedly express
themselves: "If the earth be quite rigid,
the redistribution of matter in the shape of
new continents could never cause a dis-
placement of the pole from its mitral posi-
tion of more than thirty degrees. But if
the earth have the power of readjusting
itself, periodically, to a new figure of equi-
librium, it is possible that the effect may be
cumulative, and the pole may, therefore,
have wandered as much as ten or even fif-
teen degrees from its primitive position."


154		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting, in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, Feb. 16, was one of special inter-
est. The congregation was very large.
Counselor Phebe Woodruff presided, the
President of the meeting being necessarily
absent. There were a great many minutes
from the various wards, and they were full
of good thoughts well expressed, and testi-
monies to the truth of the Gospel from the
young sisters. Counselor Phebe Woodruff,
in referring to the minutes of the young
ladies, said one thing struck her mind par-
ticularly; it was the expression so often
made, "I am thankful I live in this day;"
she thought all did not fully appreciate the
blessings granted us in this dispensation,
in the building of Temples, in the ordinances
for the dead, and other great privileges the
Saints enjoy. She made many excellent
remarks upon these subjects. Counselor E.
Howard, in her remarks, expressed herself
upon the subject of voting, and enjoined
upon all who were not citizens to take out
naturalization papers. Said that she looked
upon it as the legitimate work of Relief
Societies to instruct the sisters in all things
which pertain to their interests temporal,
or spiritual. She also gave some good ad-
vice to the Secretaries. Mrs. E. B. Wells
said she felt she had something to say to
the sisters that they would be glad to hear.
She had received a letter from Mrs. Spen-
cer, in Washington, the lady who had mani-
fested so much interest in the cause of the
women of Utah. The petitions sent from
here had been received and presented.
Mrs. Spencer regretted that Mrs. Wells had
not sent a letter to the Woman's Conven-
tion; as it was, she made extracts from a
letter to herself, and told the Convention
that the women of Utah desired to be one
with them in asking constitutional protec-
tion of their rights as citizens. Mrs. Spen-
cer said she deserved no thanks for taking
up our cause, for if she did not oppose such
legislation she ought to be stricken with
instant paralysis; yet it was some comfort
to know that our women felt kindly towards
her. Said she had lost many friends and
made hosts of enemies in our defense. She
also said, "Can you not send me the EXPO-
NENT? I need material to work with, know-
ing so little of your people." Mrs. Wells
then expressed her views in regard to the
sisters sustaining the EXPONENT and help-
ing to make it not only a pleasant compan-
ion in our homes, but a missionary in wo-
man's cause at home and abroad. Read
some articles of the National Woman Suf-
frage Association, which were similar in
tone and sentiment to the views entertained
by our people. Mrs. E. S. Barney, in her
remarks, dwelt strongly upon sericulture
and home literature. Mrs. Prescinda Kim-
ball spoke with much earnestness, and ex-
horted all to be up and doing, for the time
hastened. Alluded with much feeling to
the elder sisters passing away, and the
young being prepared to take their places.
She felt it was necessary for the sisters to
sustain the EXPONENT. Mrs. Martha B.
Young spoke upon the peculiar blessings of
the Gospel and the necessity of faith and
humility. Mrs. W. East spoke eloquently
upon the subject of Celestial Marriage, and
the blessing it was to all who would accept
the principle in its purity; she alluded to
the subject of home literature, and felt she
would like to see a renewed interest in sus-
taining our own papers and books. She
gave much excellent advice to the sisters.
The Spirit of God seemed to pervade the
hearts of all who were present. These

[Column 2]
meetings are constantly increasing in in-
terest and there is always fresh impetus
given to the mind by attending them.

			KAYSVILLE, Feb. 11th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A meeting was held here, Jan. 22d, for
the purpose of re-organizing the Relief So-
ciety of this place. Bishop Peter Barton
aud Counselor John R. Barnes, being pres-
ent, gave some excellent advice and en-
conragement to the sisters, after which the
names of the following sisters were present-
ed, and they were sustained, as officers of
the Society:
	Mrs. Mary Ann Hyde, President.
	"	Sarah B. Layton,		} Counselors.
	"	Mary Ann Walker,	}
	Miss Helen E. Hyde, Secretary.
	Mrs. Jane W. Blood, Treasurer.
	A good spirit prevails among the sisters
of the Society, and all are striving to carry
out the counsels that have been given
them.
	We hold our meetings every two weeks,
and all take an interest in the welfare of
the poor, and do all in their power to assist
them. The following is the Financial Re-
port of the Society from its commencement.
Donations, Dividend on stock, etc. $2240. 53
Cost of Relief Society House............  1345. 84
Furniture for the same.....................      78. 95
Given to the poor..............................    569. 89
Given for the Temple in S. L. City           27. 50
Given to P. E. Fund............................       50. 00
Disbursed for various articles..........    119. 50
Shares in Co-op Store.......................       25. 00
Remaining in Treasury......................       28. 85
Wheat stored for Zion, 65 bu., 54 lbs.
	Hoping that success may attend the ef-
forts of all interested in the cause of Zion.
			MARY A. HYDE, President,
			HELEN E. HYDE, Secretary,
			JANE W. BLOOD, Treasurer.

			LEWISTON, CACHE CO.,
						Feb. 24, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our First Annual Meeting on
the 5th of Jan., 1878. After reading the
minutes, a synopsis of all our meetings was
read: our report from our organizatio n to
the present time is as follows:
Donations received...........................$65. 73
Donated to Salt Lake Temple...........  20. 80
To Logan Temple...............................    4. 82
To the poor.........................................  11. 00
Stationery............................................    3. 05
Grain....................................................    9. 75
In Treasury..........................................  16. 22
Our grain report is 41 bushels.
	Our Society consists of 67 members; we
hold our meetings once in two weeks; the
Teachers meet once a month. The sisters
are desirous to do all they can for the for-
warding of the great work in which we are
engaged. Praying for the success of your
valuable paper—which is read with interest
—and for all that have an interest for Zion,
and for all the honest in heart.
	Yours Truly,
				SUSAN TERRY, Sec'y.

		NORTH MORGAN, Feb. 15th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	We send you a few items from this place
in regard to our Relief Society.
	Before the re-organization of the Church,
we all belonged to South Morgan. A spe-
cial meeting was called, for the purpose of
dissolving our Society at Morgan City into
two Wards. We were re-organized Oct. 13,
1877, by Bishop W. M. Parker and his

[Column 3]
Counselor, Olif B. Anderson, with twenty-
eight members. Since that time others
have been added. Having no place of our
own, as yet, we hold meetings twice a
month, at the residence of Sister E. A. Par-
ker, which are generally well attended. We
have a Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Society in connection with the Relief Soci-
ety, and they with us are trying to carry
out the counsel of our beloved President,
Brigham Young, in Storing Grain. We
held our first Quarterly meeting Jan. 16,
and the report was as follows:
Received............................................$57. 05
Disbursed to the Poor.....................  10. 00
In the Treasury.................................  29. 80
Salt Lake City Temple......................  17. 25
Wheat on hand 38 ½ bushels.

	Names of officers are:
	Elizabeth Worlton, President.
	Amanda Rollo,	} Counselors.
	Eliza Ann Parker,	}
	Elizabeth Rock,	} Secretaries.
	Harriet Clawson,	}
	Adelgonda Heiner, Treasurer.

	Two of the sisters here take our good lit-
tle paper, the EXPONENT, and it is read by
many more.
	We should be pleased to receive a visit
from the sisters of Salt Lake City any time,
and receive instruction from them, for we
feel our own weakness in this great under-
taking, but with the help of our Heavenly
Father, we are determined to do the best
we can. We have good, active teachers,
who visit us once a month. We truly feel
to rejoice, if we have not much of this
world's means we are rich in spirit, blessed
with health, kind hearts and willing hands,
that are ready to help build up the kingdom
of God.
	May God bless and prosper the Relief So-
cieties, that they may accomplish that for
which they were organized, is the prayer
of yours truly,
				HARRIET E. CLAWSON.

	SAMARIA, MALAD VALLEY,
						Feb. 27th. 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Samaria is situated on the east side of
the Malad Valley, and it is a lovely thriv-
ing settlement, and is increasing yearly in
numbers and prosperity. On Nov. 1st, we
were favored with a visit from Mrs. Zina
D. Young and E. Davis of Salt Lake City,
who spoke words of comfort and gave us
good instruction in the various missions
that woman is expected to perform in this
kingdom. May God give us wisdom and
strength to carry them out, and may these
noble sisters live long to speak words of
comfort and encouragement to the sisters
of Zion. They organized a Young Ladies'
Mutual Improvement Association which is
proving a great benefit to the young girls
here. The meetings are well attended and
a good spirit prevails. We have a Relief
Society in this place who are trying to
carry out the counsel of our late President
Brigham Young in storing grain and other
duties required of us.
	With prayers for the success of the EX-
PONENT and all who assist to carry on wo-
man's work, I remain your sister in the
Gospel.					M. T. H.


In the "Congressional Record" of March
5th, mention is made of the petitions from
Utah, being presented by Hon. George Q. Can-
non in the House of Representatives. Also the
remonstrance to the Christiancy and Luttrell
Bills, which were referred to the committee
on Territories.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT,
			TRUST IN GOD.

My heart seemed bursting with sorrow,
	My spirit bowed down to the dust;
I dared not look forth to the morrow,
	There was no one in whom I could trust.

For death, on his mission, had taken,
	So ruthlessly taken, MY OWN.
The earth seemed a desert, forsaken,
	Its brightness and beauty were gone.

I felt that the grave was a haven,
	A refuge from grief and despair;
And then in my wicked rebellion,
	O how I wished I was there!

Then I thought of the little ones left me,
	Who needed my love and my care;
And turned unto Him who bereft me,
	He heard and He answered my prayer.
Do you ask how I know that He heard me?
	I went to the "House of the Lord,"
And dimly and doubtingly waited-
	"Perhaps I shall hear from His word."

Was there any one else in the meeting;
	Who needed a comforting word?
Was it given to me only this greeting,
	"Just leave all the rest with the Lord;

"If you patiently fulfill your duty,
	Be humble and honest and true,
Then trust the Lord with the balance,
	And safely He'll pilot you through."
Feb. 24, 1878.                  BEREAVED.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
IMPROVEMENT.

	This is, or at any rate should be, a time of
improvement; and if we do not improve,
it is certainly not because we have no room
to do so; neither is it for a lack of proper
teaching, and opportunities to learn what
is right. If I have a correct understand-
ing, this is the main object of our Mutual
Improvement Associations, that we may
exchange ideas, and prove a benefit to each
other; I think they have not been unsuc-
cessful, though I hope we shall see more
rapid progress made in the future than has
been in the past. How much we have each
been benefited individually, we can best
answer for ourselves; but from observation
I am convinced that in some respects there
is a decided improvement in those who
take an interest in, and are attentive to
their duties; one evil in particular I would
mention, which has existed among our
young people, (especially the girls,) to an
almost alarming extent, and which for a
number of years, has been steadily gaining
ground; it is the perusal of light, trashy,
and more than worthless reading matter; it
is worse than poison to the young and inex-
perienced, impressing their minds with
false and erroneous ideas in regard to life,
its aim, object and duties, besides produc-
ing many other bad effects. This injurious
habit, I am pleased to see is decreasing,
and I sincerely hope and trust that ere
long many others of our faults and failings,
especially that of tattling and backbiting,
(which I am sorry to say is still much too
prevalent among us, and which I fear most
of us are more or less guilty of) will soon
become things of the past, and that in their
stead we will cultivate principles that will
beautify our lives, ennoble our characters,
and enhance our happiness both here and
hereafter. There are other things com-
bined with our Associations, which have
been quietly and unobtrusively bringing
about these changes for the better, one is
the labor which is being done in the Tem-
ple; it has employed the time and attention
which might otherwise have been spent in
a less laudable cause, it has also increased
the work, which there has never been a

[Column 2]

scarcity of in this part of the country. It
is my opinion that if we properly attend to
all our legitimate duties and obligations,
we will have little time for either novel-
reading, mischief-making or fault-finding.
We certainly have the least excuse for do-
ing so, of any people on the earth, and in-
asmuch as we have received greater light,
so will much more be required of us.
	While we strive to improve, we must
guard against becoming over zealous a
sanctimonious appearance does not indi-
cate true repentance, it is often the hypo-
crite who blows his own trumpet, especially
if he had previously gone very wide of the
mark. I think this applies no less to women
than men. I fear I am digressing very much
from my subject, but if my readers will
bear with me I would like in connection
with this to say a few words to the girls in
relation to marriage. First, to those who
have not yet entered into the holy bonds of
matrimony, consider well the step before
it is taken; make it a matter of unceasing
and earnest prayer, until you are satisfied
that you are right, and when you have
made choice of a husband, one who belongs
to our Church, who is sustained and upheld
by the Priesthood and who is striving to do
his duty and live up to the requirements of
the Gospel, do not become so sanctified,
that you fancy because he may have some
fault for which perhaps society is more to
blame than himself, that he is not good
enough for you, and you must aspire high-
er, and consequently seek to be released
from him who took you in all faith, for bet-
ter or worse. Let us beware my young sis-
ters, for he that thinketh he standeth
should take heed lest he fall; for a step like
this might lead into darkness, and besides
can we expect the blessings of God to at-
tend us, if we destroy the confidence re-
posed in us, and break the covenants which
we have made in holy places? Besides we
all have our faults, and we need not expect
charity unless we extend it to others: a hus-
band's faults should be held sacred by the
wife, in my opinion, and if she prove false,
it may prove the ruin of the man whom she
has sworn to love and honor. If such
should be the case, where will the sin rest?
But enough of this.
	Improvement and progress are the order
of the day, they are marching onward with
rapid strides in some directions; new in-
ventions are being made, others are being
brought to greater perfection, wonderful
discoveries fill up the calendar of the past
age. But how is it with the morals of the
people of the world, are they improving?
Alas, no! they are becoming more corrupt-
ed every day, and wickedness is on the in-
crease. Then it becomes us as a people to
be valiant in the cause of truth, and use
our best endeavors to stem the current of
vice and degradation which brings nothing
but sorrow and misery. So let us be strong
and brave in the cause of Zion.
	KATE.
St. George, 1878.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	I should like to add my voice with the
rest of my sisters, through the columns of
our paper; I always read it with pleasure,
and would not exchange it for any other
paper. Oh, what a great work there is for
the sisters in Zion! It is time for all to be
up and doing. I know that this is the king-
dom of God—it is the little stone cut out of
the mountain, that will roll till it fills the


whole earth. I often think how thankful
we all ought to feel for our mountain home,
away from the tumult that is abroad in the
world. Here, where we can worship God,
our Father, according to the dictations of
His Spirit, where we have prophets and
apostles to lead and dictate us, where we
can obey the revelations of God given in
the last dispensation, the principle of Ce-
lestial Marriage, for we know that without
it we cannot attain to a fulness of celestial
glory. Blessed are they that trust in God
and obey the voice of his servants; for if
we are faithful, we will be heirs and joint-
heirs with our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
We would rather suffer affliction with the
people of God, than to enjoy the pleasures
of sin for a season; for whom the Lord lov-
eth He chasteneth. Let us love the Lord
our God with all our hearts, and our neigh-
bors as ourselves. Let us, as sisters, in
union try and cultivate a cheerful temper,
be kind and forgiving one with another.
have forbearance, meekness, and above all
charity, which will help us to love one an-
other; and may we ever be found ready to
do the will of our Father, is the desire of
your sister in the covenant,
			AGNES COOPER.
West Jordan, March 3, 1878.

	The health of the people in this vicinity
is good, and the weather here is most de-
lightful, and every one feels a good spirit,
and generally we have a good attendance at
our sisters' meetings, which we hold every
two weeks. We meet once a month to
speak of the goodness of the Lord, and give
words of comfort and encouragement to
each other. The EXPONENT is read with
great interest here, and I realize my inabil-
ity to write to our most valuable paper,
and if it was not for a portion of the Spirit
of God, I could not give vent to my feel-
ings; without his assistance we could do
nothing; it is through Him we live and
have a being. In these latter days He has
revealed the principle of Celestial Marriage
through Joseph Smith, for which I feel
most truly thankful, for I know that it is
calculated to purify and elevate the human
family. God has promised, inasmuch as we
will obey His commands, He will be a friend
to us in the day of trial, and the Lord says
He will have a tried people.
	As Latter-day Saints and women of God,
let us live our religion, and not allow the
evil one to whisper evil things in our ears,
and try and love each other, and if we have
a cross to bear endure it bravely. "No
cross no crown." I pray that I may have
the Holy Spirit to guide and direct me
through life, that I may be counted worthy
of a celestial glory. I feel to say God bless
all that are trying to obey His command-
ments and live their religion. Such is most
earnestly the prayer of your humble sister,
						JANE GODFREY.
	Clarkston. Feb. 27, 1878.


NOTICE.

	All who may wish to purchase silk-worm
eggs can obtain them from Mrs. Lorinda Robin-
son of Farmington. It would be well for those
who intend to purchase to secure what quanti-
ty they may need, and if desirable they could
leave them in Mrs. Robinson's care till it was
time to make use of them. Mulberry trees of
all sizes can be obtained from President
Young's farm, just south of the city, by apply-
ing to Wm. Rossiter, at the President's Office.
The [-]rees are from five to forty cents apiece,
according to size.


156		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH. 15, 1878.


[Column 1]

DOING GOOD.

	Doing good taken in its largest sense is the
geeat aim of the real Christian; but the desire
to do good in the abstract is usually more in-
herent in woman than in man; not that man's
nature is opposite, both do, or should have sim-
ilar aims in view and methods of work; but in
woman's character there seems to be more of
the quality of mercy that is not strained, "But
falleth as the gentle dew from heaven," than
in that of man. This tendency to mercy and
charity is the very soul of motherhood, and
adds to the purity with which one ever clothes
the name of mother. "My mother was good-
ness personified" is a remark quite frequently
made, by both men and women. Men in all
ages and at all times have given their atten-
tion more to what they considered the weighty
matters of life, and they are quite willing to
leave to women all the sweet charities and
tender ministrations of love, that are so nec-
essary to the human heart, and especially in
times of sorrow, or trial. At the bedside of
the sufferer, woman's presence has a peculiar,
almost magical charm: her gentle touch, her
soothing influence ever felt when her sympa-
thy is called into action by existing circum-
stances, is acknowledged by all the world. In
her nature are the very attributes of gentle-
ness, tenderness and all that refines, purifies
and elevates the soul. There is no sacrifice too
great, no self-denial she will not practice, if
she can comprehend it to be for good. Is man
conscious of all that woman lays upon the al-
tar that she may thereby elevate and purify
the home, subduing her own individnal aspir-
ations (often wholly) that she may add to the
happiness of others, of those she loves, reach-
ing out after the weak and erring, alleviating
the wants of the poor, seeking to relcaim the
wanderer, giving shelter to the outcast, and in
short performing all those acts of benevolence
that come within the pale of doing good.
	Christ's mission upon the earth was charac-
terized by doing good.He went about among
the people performing acts of benevolence, and
charity, healing the sick, and giving sight to
the blind, even restoring the dead to life, com-
forting the mourner, and in short doing good
to all who would receive His ministrations.
Jesus in His characteristics exhibited much of
the nature called feminine. The divinity
which was manifest in all He did, or said, is
akin to that which in woman is termed woman-
liness; and by the masses is often looked upon
as weakness. Woman has ever borne heavy
burdens of sorrow, in some instances (perhaps
in many) self-imposed, but nevertheless a
cross. One has only to read the Scriptures to
see what heroic self-denial women are capable

[Column 2]

of exercising. The story of Esther is one of the
rarest examples of sacred history, and her un-
precedented courage is without a parallel.
	The Scriptures afford many rare illustrations
of the elements of goodness in woman's char-
acter. And in later times history abonnds
with examples of woman's sacrifices for noble
enterprises and good works.
	There are, to be sure, few if any lives whose
scope is so narrow as to preclude all opportunity
for doing good. Every woman has her own
immediate circle, in which she may develop
her ability to do good. Every mother has an
extensive field to labor in. Her heart and
sympathies are enlisted, if she be a true moth-
er, in the development of all that is purest and
noblest in her children, and in so conducting
the affairs of home and life, as to conduce to
the continual well-being of her offspring.
Naturally enough she must take in a wider
range of thought than that which bounds her
domestic domain. How many thousand temp-
tations and evils there are to be met outside
the mother's influence, where her power is
vain to shield and ward off dangers, more ap-
palling than death, is easily comprehended.
	Is it strange that possessing all the capabili-
ties of a rational being there should spring up
in the mind of woman, new ideas and
thoughts in regard to stemming the current of
evil outside of home? That her aspirations to
do good should reach forth for new fields to la-
bor in, when she sees ofttimes how utterly pow-
erless are the utmost exertions that can be
made single-handed, to arrest the growth of
evil that continually gathers from every quar-
ter, and all ranks in life fresh forces?
	Is it very wonderful, we would beg leave to
ask, when the mother sees her darling boy, the
pride of her heart, and in anticipation the staff
of her declining years, become a drunkard in
spite of her exemplary life, her diligent train-
ing and constant prayers, that she should want
to know the cause, and causes? And is it so
very remarkable that having found sources pro-
lific of evil influences she should call up all
her latent powers of mind, and active energies
to assist in remedying deleterious causes. Is it
not consistent that she should seek to under-
stand for herself all about the state of public
morals, as well as the laws that regulate them,
and finding much that is impure, and unjust,
is it a marvel that she should desire to infuse
into the atmosphere which her own offspring
and posterity must breathe, all the elements of
goodness which she is capable of introducing.
	It is useless to attempt to enumerate all the
different phases of enlightened and free gov-
ernments, where man's power is almost abso-
lute, and woman be she wronged or unfortu-
nate beats, against the iron bars of custom in
vain. To be sure many women cannot see
that it is any use to vote and are more willing
to be imprisoned than free, but it is partly be-
cause they prefer to go on in the good old-fash-
ioned way to any change, lest it should involve
them in more or greater difficulties.
	Men have made rapid strides in many re-
spects in the last few centuries; great discov-
eries and inventions are constantly diffusing
new light in the world of science, but of what
avail will knowledge be, if there is no correct
system of government, no justice for mankind,
and mercy to "flavor justice."
	Woman's most active powers are, and will be
needed, not only in the home circle, but in as-
sisting to purify and elevate the tone of public
morals, and to do so, woman must herself live
to a high standard of excellence. Women of
fashion who live for pleasure and to kill time,
are treacherous to the divine nature implanted
in their bosoms. There is a higher and nobler

[Column 3]

purpose in life than can ever be reached by
such means.
	The element of goodness and of spirituality
in a true woman is always of a refining charac-
ter, and in whatever department of life her
presence is felt, it has ever been an incentive
to holy and lofty aspirations. If husbands were
more willing to take counsel of wives in most
instances no doubt it would be better policy;
but instead of both working together it is often
the case they pull against each other, and the
result is anything but a happy one. When
men and women are equal partners in the
great battle of life there will, to say the least,
be less cause of complaint. That the world
moves is easy to see, and that women move
with it as well as men, is now becoming pretty
generally conceded. The Lord is doing a work
in these last days and woman's share in it is
every day more clearly defined. Those who
are quickest to discern, whether men or wo-
men will perceive the dawn of new light in
the horizon and will proclaim the truth to
those who sit in dark places.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	WE HAVE a specimen of the ribbon woven
by Sister Wadroup of Centreville, of pure
home-made silk made from the elements of
Utah. The loom in which it was woven was
made in Centreville from a model brought
from England. There is an increased interest
awakened in sericulture, brought about more
particularly through the untiring labors and
exertions of Mrs. Zina D. Young, Miss E. R.
Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. E. S. Barney and
other sisters who have labored indefatigably
in this arduous undertaking. Much credit is
due these ladies for their courage and exertions
under difficulties, and all sorts of unfavorable
circumstances.

	THE FIRST Quarterly meeting of the
Relief Society of Salt Lake Co. will be held at
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on
Saturday, March 23rd, 1878, punc[-]ually at
2 o'clock p. m. The Secretaries of the var-
ious wards and districts are requested to send
in a report previous to that time, in order that
the Secretary may have an opportunity to pe-
ruse each roport previous to reading them in
public. Each branch of the Relief Society in
this Stake of Zion is expected to furnish a con-
cise statement of the first organization, and of
any particular change of officers, or reorgani-
zation, and a complete financial report of all
funds received and disbursed, and for what
purposes etc. These reports should be as brief
as it is possible to make them, and have them
sufficiently definite. Afterwards reports will
be made every three months, which will re-
quire but little extra time and attention. By
means of this organization or board of county
officers, a correct estimate will be made every
three months of all funds handled by the sis-
ters in this organized capacity in this Stake of
Zion. The people will be better posted upon
the appropriation made of means donated. At
this meeting it is expected that the board of
officers of each society will be present as there
will likely be instructions given relating to 
the Relief Society, its present and future pros-
pects and duties that will be desirable that all
should understand for themselves- A general
invitation is extended to all interested in the
progress of the work of the sisters in Zion to
be present at the meeting.
				MARY I. HORNE, President.
				ELIZABETH HOWARD, Sec'y.


<opler to="" jdosojt="" requires="" up="" 11-="" ecu="" efforts-="" almp3ti="" pyery..="" belief="" .="" ibocietyin="" ‘="" fixjtah.cariif.="" they="" make="" an="" exdrtion;="" lend="" a="" :="" helping="" hand="" to:.the="" general'interest="" rof="" this="" special="" industry="" :;ifcis="" expected="" now="" that="" there="" twill="" soon="" be="" suitable:="" machinery="" for;="" ruahufac-="" cturing,="" and="" meantime="" themulberrydrees'tnust="" be'="" growing,="" so="" the="" silk-worms="" can="" have'="" food,="" large="" quantity="" of="" cocftons="" will="" warite'd="" supply="" silk="" feelers,="" sisters'who="" 'understand="" reeling="" should="" have="" employment,="" and’stimulate="" others="" tb="" leprn="" it="" is="" a‘trade="" easily="" learned,="" bp="" refnuppratlve="" one,="" ”lor="" future="" benefit,a's="" ismoyz="" well-known="" fact="" climate="" ot="" utah="" adapted="" cul-="" tivation,="" enterprise,="" lain="" the'landsof="" those="" who="" notlet="" anything="" daunt="" tpem="" jfrom="" pushing="" the,="" work="" forward.="" yet="" coprse="" itwill="" depend="" upon="" people,‘whether="" much="" qr,liitle="" shall="" accomplished,="" fqr="" if="" there,are="" jqof"="" many="" mulberry="" trees,="" will]="" not="" manycocoons,="" consequently="" jbe.="" material="" for="" loom.="" society="" -and="" y.="" b.="" m.="" i.="" a.="" presidents="" forget="" tliis="" important="" mission="" given="" them="" at.ihe="" con-="" ference="" in="" st.="" george="" templp.less="" .than="" syear="" ago,="" by="" no="" mote="" our="" .midst="" -counsel="" and;="" instruct.="" labor="" .is="" solei.work="" few="" individuals,="" but="" people,="" ancbthe="" result="" such="" as="" is-ever="" re-="" -ward="" diligence="" lndustry-in="" communi-="" ty—wealth="" prosperity.="" pamphlets,="" giving="" definite="" details'‘of1="" sericulture="" all="" its="" stages,="" are="" sale="" 'at’the="" comfuission="" store="" home="" manufac-="" tures,="" old="" constitutiou="" buildings,="" at="" tbn="" cents="" each.="" sisters="" bear="" mind="" store,="" established="" through="" their="" united="" 'energies,="" counsel="" president="" young="" still="" needs="" patronage.="" increasing="" va-="" 'riely'of="" goods,="" arid="" utmost="" pains="" 'taicenfo.="" most="" flourishing="" institu="" j?tipn="" irf="" salteak="" e="" ,cit,="" thl9.pe0plq.eyer="" ex-="" mctto.become="" independent="" ballon,="" j’t‘f<="" div="">	OUR GOOD sisters Miss Eliza R. Snow, Mrs.
M. Isabella Horne and Mrs. Zina D. Young
have been making a tour through the north-
ern settlements in Davis, Cache and Box El-
der Counties, in the interest of Relief Socie-
ties and Y. L. M. I. A., laboring to awaken a re-
newed interest in all the departments of wo-
man's work which pertains to the building up
of Zion.  These sisters with many others are
earnestly seeking to promote home industries
among the people, to give employment to the
poor and make the saints more self-sustaining.
One of the principle objects now in view is to
establish sericulture and make it a successful
enterprise; and in order to do so it requires unit-
ed efforts. Almost every Relief Society in
Utah can, if they make an exertion, lend a 
helping hand to the general interest of this
special industry.  It is expected now that there
will soon be suitable machinery for manufac-
turing, and meantime the mulberry trees must
be growing, so the silk-worms can have food,
and a large quantity of cocoons will be wanted
to supply the silk reelers, and the sisters who
understand reeling should have employment,
and stimulate others to learn  It is a trade
easily learned, and will be a remunerative one,
for future benefit, as it is now a well-known fact
that the climate of Utah is adapted to silk cul-
tivation, and the enterprise is in the hands of
those who will not let anything daunt them
from pushing the work forward.  Yet of course
it will depend upon the people, whether much
or little shall be accomplished, for if there are
not many mulberry trees, there will not be
many cocoons, and consequently there will not
be material for the loom.  The Relief Society
and Y. L. M. I. A. Presidents should not forget
this important mission given them at the Con-
ference in the St. George Temple less than a 
year ago, by one, now no more in our midst to
counsel and instruct.  This labor is not the
sole work of a few individuals, but the people,
and the result will be such as is ever the re-
ward of diligence and industry in a commui-
ty— wealth and prosperity.
 Pamphlets, giving definite details of the 
work of sericulture in all its stages, are for sale
at the Commission Store for Home Manufac-
tures, in the Old Constitutiou buildings, at ten
cents each.  The sisters should bear in mind
that this store, established through their united
energies, by counsel of President Young, still
needs their patronage.  It is increasing in va-
riety of goods, and the utmost pains should be
taken to make it the most flourishing institu
tion in Salt Lake City, if this people ever ex-
pect to become independent of Babylon.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

	For the EXPONENT.
IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED: At Wanship, Summit Co., Utah, Sat-
urday March 2d, 1878, about midnight, of pneu-
monia after a short and severe illness of less
than four days, Sister Susan Sanford Pierson
Richards. Deceased was the daughter of Hon.
Wm. Pierson and Nancy Richards Pierson of
Richmond, Berkshire Co , Mass., at which
place she was born Dec. 13, 1831. She obeyed
the gospel in the days of her youth, and was
baptized into the Church. In 1852 in company
with her mother undertook the perilous jour-
ney from her native place to gather with the
saints to their newly discovered home in the
Rocky Mountains. Nor did her courage fail
her when called to part with and bury her
dear mother by the way, at a place on the
Platte River known as the "Liberty Pule.'
Soon after her arrival in Utah she became the
wife of Elder Franklin D. Richards, by whom
she was the honored mother of a daughter,

[Column 2]

and two sons who survive to mourn her loss.
She was a virtuous, devoted and faithful wife,
a dutiful, anxious and indulgent mother, an
unwavering, patient and exemplary saint, who
lived true to the profession of her faith, while
she sojourned with us. Since the organization
of the Relief Society she has taken an active
part in the duties thereof, and filled the posi-
tion of Secretary until her death. Her re-
mains were brought to this city for interment
with the deceased of her husband's family in
the Salt Lake Cemetery. The funeral services
were held at the residence of her cousin L. W.
Richards at 1 o'clock on Tuesday March 5th,
President Joseph Young, Bishop Lorenzo
Young, and Elder Joseph F. Smith took part
in the funeral services, and many excellent
things were said calculated to comfort the rela-
tives and friends; Prof. Daynes with a choir
of sweet singers was present, and the music
lent a soothing and heavenly influence to
the so'emn occasion.

	IT IS with feelings of deep regret we record
the demise of one of our beloved sisters, Mary
Stubs, wife of Henry Stubs of Malad City; de-
ceased was born November 12th, 1854. Emi-
grated to Utah in 1869 with her parents, David
and Mary Morgan of Brigham City, from Alt-
oven branch, Glamorganshire, South Wales;
was married December 1st, 1873, in Salt Lake
City. She departed this life March 3rd, 1878.
aged twenty three years, three months. She
was a firm believer in the principles of the
Everlasting Gospel, and was full of faith and
patience. Her sufferings were truly great and
she realized the promise of the Lord that as
her day her strength should be; when suffer-
ing great pain of body she would say my faith
is good, but my body is very weak, but I will
try and be patient in suffering. After great
and continued suffering she at last quietly fell
asleep, leaving a loving husband and affection-
ate parents to mourn her loss; and while we
sympathize with the bereaved family and feel
the loss of our dear sister, we can look forward
to the day when the faithful dead shall hear
the Archangel's trump and come forward to
shine as the sun forever. Should we mourn as
those without hope? No dear sisters. Let us
prepare ourselves while here to dwell with our
Father in heaven and receive the welcome
plaudit, "Well done good and faithful servant,
enter thou into the joy of thy Lord." Our
dear sister whose death we record, was a mem-
ber of the Relief Society and the Young La-
dies Mutual Improvement Association and was
ever anxious to do good. May it be our happy
portion when called to pass behind the vail,
like her to look forward with hope to a glori-
ous resurrection in the kingdom of our God.
	ANNE SAWYER, Secretary Y. L. M. I. A.
		So rest in peace dear mother;
			With our Father dwell awhile,
		When our work on earth is finished
			Greet us with your holy smile.

	DIED AT Horse Shoe Bend, Beaver Co., on
the 27th of January, Mrs. Kerziah Burk:
daught r of James and Mary Van Benthusen,
born in Albany, New York, May 15th, 1796.
She received the Gospel in the fall of 1830, in
Kirtland Ohio. She was in the second com-
pany of Saints who went up to Jackson
County Missouri; and shared in all the perse-
cutions that befell the Saints both Missouri,
and Illinois; Though ill in body, confined to
the bed, yet she was compelled through the
religious persecution to leave Nauvoo and cross
the plains, in company with the Saints, to set-
tle in the mountains. She was a faithful wife
and mother, and a true Latter-day Saint, and
died in the hope of coming forth in the morn-

[Column 3]

ing of the resurrection with the just made
perfect, and dwelling with her Redeemer.
	M. E. R. L.

	DIED IN Salt Lake City Jan. 25, 1878, Eli-
za, widow of Stephen Lees, in the seventy-
third year of her age. Deceased was born July
7th, 1805, at Doncaster, Yorkshire, England.
She embraced the G spel in May 1848, at Ash-
ton Under-Lyne, and emigrated to Utah in
1853. Sister Eliza Lees has ever been true to
the Gospel, and while in England did much
good in assisting the Elders and making a home
for the missionaries. She contributed liberally
of her means to the Church. She was devot-
edly attached to her faith, punctual to the du-
ties of a Latter-day Saint. She delighted in
talking upon the principles of the Gospel in
which her soul was engrossed. She was a con-
stant attendant at public worship and was one
of the few who regularly attend the Fast Meet-
ings. She had no fear of death, and passed
from earth as peacefully as a child falling
asleep. She was a member of the Relief So-
ciety in the 13th Ward, where she resided, and
took great pleasure in attending the sisters'
meetings. She was the last of her family.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	WEST WEBER, WEBER CO., March 5th, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	After a long silence I thought I would write
a few of my feelings, and reflections to you.
Althongh I have not written lately, I have
found time to read the EXPONENT. I find the
same spirit of persecution is still abroad in the
land as in days past, when the saints were
scattered and driven, and my heart burns with
resentment towards those who ought to protect
a mere handful of peaceful, loyal citizens. If
it were not for the God of Joseph in whom we
trust we should indeed be called to suffer much.
Our enemies are possessed of the same spirit
still, that incited them to drive the saints from
Far West, Nauvoo aud other places, when our 
brethren and sisters were butchered like dogs
in many instances. When I read the "Women
of Mormondom," and see what my dear sisters
passed through in those days, some to see their
husband and children murdered before their
eyes, my heart sickens to think that such was
their fate in a free country, because they obey-
ed the Gospel of Jesus Christ as laid down in 
the Bible, which book all the Christian world
profess to believe in. After having suffered so
much at the hands of our enemies, still they
are not satisfied, they will not be content to
leave us alone here in [-]ur "mountain home,"
but endeavor to legislate away our rights and 
priviliges as American citizens, and as we may
justly be termed exiles from home, country and
friends, yet that is not enough.
	But it is the Lord's work we are engaged in
and all the world cannot hinder its onward
march. As the prophets have said it will grow
and triumph over all foes until it fills the
whole earth, and He whose right it is to reign
will come and the kingdoms of this earth will
be given to the Saints of the Most High.
	I feel to encourage all my sisters, and say let
us teach our sons and daughters to obey the
laws of God, and be willing to abide in the 
New and Everlasting Covenant which in-
cludes the principle of Celestial Marriage. Let
us never suffer ourselves to speak lightly of
this sacred and holy order of matrimony. I
desire to bear my testimony to my sisters and
to the world, that it is the revealed will of God.
I entered into this holy order more than
tweny-three years ago; and have never had


any regrets but have ever felt glad that I had
the privilige of living within the requirments
of a divine law.  Sisters let us magnify our
callings as mothers  and wives in Israel, and as-
sist our husbands in keeping the laws that will
lead to exaltation and eternal lives.
	We are prospering here, our Relief Society is
in a healthy condition.  Our President Mary
Douglas, with her Counselors and the Teach-
ers, are doing all they can to comfort and help
the poor, likewise to carry out the counsels of
the servants of God in the storing of grain and
other public purposes. We have fifty-seven
bushels stored, belonging to this little Society;
we have our meetings once a month, which
are very well attended.  Bishop John I. Hart
meet with us occasionally and encourages us
to press onward in the good work we are en-
gaged in.
	I pray God to bless all that desire to do good
and to help build up this kingdom with much
faith, that we may overcome evil and be saved
and exalted in the presence of God. Amen.
					P. S. HART.

		KANAB, KANE CO., Feb. 20, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	By reading the EXPONENT I find there is an
effort made by the sisters to store grain and the
importance of having it safely kept.  I would
suggest mixing lime dust (air slacked) with the 
wheat as a perventive of weavel;two bushels
to the hundred is sufficient: the crevices of the
bin should be filled with lime.  I have seen my
husband use lime in this way with effect in St.
George, after the weavel had gained possession
in great multitudes, by removing the wheat
from the bin, and exposing it to light on a 
floor, the weavel would gather out  the dark-
est palce they could find.
		Respectfully,
				LOUISA OAKLEY.
			KINGSTON, Feb. 10, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The sisters of this place were organized into a 
Relief Society by Bishop King and Counselors,
Dec. 16, 1877, with Susan Black President,
Esther King, and Frances White Counselors,
Mary T. Wilcox, Secretary, and Mary A. Sav-
age, Treasurer.  We also have a corps of 
Teachers with M.T. Wilcox President, who 
visit the sisters monthly to encourage and
strengthen them in their duties both temporal
and spiritual.  We hold our testimony meet-
ings on fast days at 2 o'clock p.m, which are
well attended and an excellent spirit prevails;
both old and young take a lively interest in
speaking of the goodness of God.
	A branch of the United Order was organized
in this place May 1st, 1877, with Thomas R.
King, President, Joel Hwite, and Wm. King,
Vice President; T. King, Secretary; Mortimer
Warner, Treasurer.  The members feel will
satisfied and are united, each one being willing
to do whatever they may be called upon to
do by those placed to direct.  We are working
on the joint-stock principle, each one putting
in all they possess and all fare alike.  They are
building our houses on a sqaure, and it is the
intention to build a dining-hall in the center.
The Lord has crowned our labors with a good
harvest, this last year, for which we feel to 
thank Him, and for his blessing that has at-
tended all our labors.  All those that have 
come here came for the purpose of carrying
out the principle of the United Order, and we
have been truly blest and prospered in opening
up farms and making homes in this new coun-
try, and there has been a vast amount of labor
accomplished by so few.  Our numbers are
small but steadily inareasing.  We have a day
and Sunday School well attended, also a Mu-
tual Improvement Association.  We feel that
the Lord has been with us since our coming 
here, and that He will still watch over us.
We have had excellent meetings this winter,
and enjoyed ourselves very much, peace and
union reigns in our midst.  I know that the
nearer we live up to the commandments of the
Lord, the more of his spirit we enjoy, and the
better we feel.  It is the intention of the So-
ciety to take a few numbers of the EXPONENT 
as soon as practicable.
	Praying the Lord to bless all the faithful in
Zion, I remain your sister etc.
		MARY T. WILCOX, Secretary, R. S.


158		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
[From Woman's Words.]
SKETCH OF MRS. SARA J. ANDREWS
SPENCER.

	Sarah J. Andrews Spencer was born in
Savona, Steuben County, N. Y., October 21,
1837. Her father, Dr. Orra Andrews, was
a descendant of worthy ancestors' in Con-
necticut, and her mother, Elizabeth Loom-
is Andrews, belonged to an excellent family
in Yates County, N. Y. Her father was tal-
ented and cultured, but early in his married
life became a victim of intemperance, and
the finer instincts of his nature were thus
perverted. Her mother says, "No wonder
Sara is alive on the woman question. Every
drop of blood in her veins ought to cry out
for justice to women."
	When three years old Sara was taken
away by her father in one of his fits of in-
temperance, and the mother, hard at work,
had scarcely missed the little one from her
side, when a neighbor told her that father
and child were seen on the road to Penn
Yan. The mother hurried to the place
where the child was seen, and learned after
several days, that she had been taken forty
miles away and bound out to a family dur-
ing her minority. In an agony of doubt
and fear, the mother hastened there, deter-
mined to take the child, inside or outside
human laws, and defend her ownership with
her life, if need be. She found the little
one on the porch of the house where she
had been taken, and instantly brought her
away. Her mother wrapped her in warm
clothing and started for the carriage, not
daring to stop until they were out of the
county. From this time the mother, and
the two children whom she had stolen from
legal bondage and held by a higher law of a 
mother's devotion, were protected by the
community in which they lived in Savona,
N. Y.
	At thirteen, Sara removed with her
mother and brother to St. Louis; where she
attended a popular seminary, and was one
of the brightest scholars. At sixteen nec-
essity compelled her to give up graduating
and immediately provide for herself and
mother, and she began to teach in the "Old
Benton." On drawing her salary she indig-
nantly observed that she was paid only one-
third as much as the man who preceded her.
He had only himself to support. She had
been compelled to give up a classical course
to support her mother. She appealed to the
Board of Education for justice—in vain. At
nineteen she became principal of the Mound
female grammar school, the youngest prin-
cipal in the city. In 1863 she went to New
York with letters of introduction to Horace
Greeley and others. Mr. Greeley said, "I
like the way you talk, young lady; you
shall have employment." The next morn-
ing, upon his recommendation, she com-
menced work in the office of the "Scientific
American," one-half of each day, and in

[Column 2]
the afternoons and evenings wrote for two
daily papers and one weekly, doing fourteen
hours intellectual labor each day. At this
time she met and soon after married, De-
cember 26, 1854, Prof. Henry C. Spencer,
whose acquaintance she had formed four
years previously in St. Louis, when she was
principal of the "Mound." He had suc-
ceeded to the Spencerian authorship work,
in the place of his father, the author of the
Spencerian style and system of Penman-
ship. Mrs. Spencer at once assisted her
husband in the literary work of the "Spen-
cerian Key," and has been constantly by his
side in all the active business of life. In
June, 1866, they removed to Washington,
D. C., where they still reside. For twelve
years they have conducted one of the larg-
est and most successful colleges for business
training in the United States.
	"Is it possible you have children of your
own, Mrs. Spencer, and have time to do so
much important work for others?" is fre-
quently asked. "Yes," she answers.
	Instead of regarding the responsibilities
of motherhood as a reason for neglecting
the public welfare, as a devoted mother, she
deems it her highest duty to purify the at-
mosphere her children must breathe. She
does not remember a time since she first
heard of the ballot, and her mother's wish
to possess it, that she did not believe it was
a woman's sacred right.
	In January, 1871, the presentation of a
memorial to Congress against woman suf-
frage, from one thousand women of fashion-
able society, and attacks by these ladies up-
on Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and other advo-
cates of woman's enfranchisement, aroused
Mrs. Spencer's indignation, and she wrote
a series of articles for the daily "National
Republican," entitled "Problems on the
Woman Question, Social, Political and
Scriptural." The inconsistencies, weak-
nesses and follies of some of the women
who feared the demoralization of the ballot
were so graphically contrasted with the self-
sacrifice and heroism of the pioneers of re-
form, that hosts of converts to the cause was
the result.
	They were re-published by the National
Woman's Suffrage Association for general
circulation. Paulina Wright Davis said of
them, "their tender, beautiful, grand sum-
mary of the whole question should be upon
the table of every lady in the land."
	The chief work of her life is in search-
ing out and removing causes of vice, crime,
pauperism and wretchedness. She goes at
any hour of the day or night to give aid
and comfort to poor unfortunates who need
a helping hand, and is ever ready to shelter
the wanderer, the wronged and the outcast,
whom the world too often unites in con-
demning. This has led to similar efforts
in many cities where before no respectable
woman has dared to approach an outcast
even with a kindly word.
	Mrs. Spencer has been a member and of-
ficer of the National Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation for seven years, and is universally
regarded as a tower of strength for that
body at Washington. She watches daily
for all legislation concerning the interests
of women in any State or Territory, and
promptly appears against any measure cal-
culated to defraud or oppress them. She
was a delegate of the National Suffrage As-
sociation to the Cincinnati Republican presi-
dential convention, June 14, 1876, and ad-
dressed the Platform committee in behalf
of a woman suffrage plank in their plat-
form, and on the following morning, upon
motion of Hon. George E. Hoar, of Massa
chusetts, was invited to address the con-
vention; the first instance in the history o-


this country in which a woman ever ad-
dressed a national presidential convention.
	As chairman of the Resident Congres-
sional committee of the National Woman
Suffrage Association, Mrs. Spencer has sent
out within a year thirty-two thousand Six-
teenth Amendment petitions and appeals to
twenty thousand post-office towns in the
United States, and is in correspondence
with associations of women in thirty-five
States. With the later labors of Mrs. Spen-
cer in the Woman's Congress, and before
the several committees of the National Con-
gress, at Washington, most of our readers
are familiar, through the medium of the
daily papers.
	In conclusion, we think that every reader
will find encouragement in this brief histo-
ry of what one woman can accomplish.
With no influential friends at the beginning
of her career, with obstacles meeting her at
every step—before which many a soul has
faltered and failed—she has pressed untir-
ingly forward in her life of usefulness and
lofty endeavor, maintained by the conscious
rectitude of her unfaltering purpose. Let
our young workers take heart. There is no
obstacle too great for the dauntless spirit to
overcome!


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		159﻿


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORT.

	SALT LAKE CITY, Feb. 24th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of the 8th Ward held
a special meeting at the Meeting House
Feb. 13, 1878. All the officers of the So-
ciety were present; and by invitation Miss
E. R. Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne, Phebe
Woodruff, Zina D. Young, and E. S. Tay-
lor; also Bishop Sheets and Counselors.
Meeting conducted in the usual manner by
singing and prayer, etc. Mrs. Horne ad-
dressed the meeting on home manufacture,
the necessity of becoming self-sustaining;
said the saints should be united and sustain
those who are trying to establish home-in-
dustries. Mrs. Woodruff, Young and Tay-
lor made excellent remarks on building
Temples and baptism for the dead, said
that we had much to do and the work must
be done here on earth, and we must be
ready to respond to the calls of the servants
of God. Miss E. R. Snow exhorted the
sisters to faithfulness in all the require-
ments of those placed over them to sustain
home-industries, to do their duty in tem-
poral as well as spiritual things. Said the
Commission Store had done much good,
and wished the sisters to sustain it. Coun-
selors McMurin and Brockbank were pleas-
ed with the remarks of the sisters; felt
that they were doing much good in estab-
lishing home-industries. Bishop Sheets
felt to endorse with the brethren what the
sisters had said, felt to encourage silk-cul-
ture said that the sisters present had given
good advice and counsel on the necessity of
cultivating the mulberry tree.
	The receipts and disbursements for the
year 1877 were read which were as follows:
	Jan 1, 1877, in Treas.......................$	137 77
	Rec'd during year............................	112 95
		Total						250 72
	Disbursed........................................	133 44
	Jan. 1, 1878. Balance on hand........	117 28
	For Wheat Fund..............................	  11 65
	Five cent Temple Fund...................	  23 40
 		Total amount					152 33
President Mrs. Mary A. Leaver was

[Column 2]

pleased with the good instruction of our
sisters; felt to sustain them, and desired
those present to profit by what, they had
heard; felt that we had been blest in hav-
ing a visit from them, felt to thank them
for their good counsel and advice.  The
meeting adjourned and the invited guests
repaired to the Bishop's residence where
they partook of a generous supper by the 
hospitality of the Bishop. Spent a few
hours very agreeably, all seemed to enjoy
the meeting and expressed themselves ben-
efited by the good spirit that prevailed.
Our young ladies hold their meetings regu-
larly which are very interesting; they have
a good attendance and there is a spirit of 
interest awakened with them, which I 
trust will continue.
	May God bless us all and His spirit and 
save us in His Kingdom.
	E. R. FLETCHER,
	S. A. HAWKINS, Sec'ys

	MANTI, Feb. 10, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you the Annual Report of our So-
ciety which is in a more flourishing con-
dition financially than ever before. The
Ladies Store is also very prosperous, and is 
quite a source of revenue to the Society
which is the largest shareholder; the divi-
dends are used to purchase wheat for stor-
ing, or assist in forwarding the public
works.  If the Lord will, it is the inten-
tion of the Presidency of the Society to
build a granary the present year, and in 
due time a Store with a Hall for holding
meetings on the second floor.
	The work on the Temple is steadily pro-
gressing, and will probably be pushed with 
renewed energy in the Spring.
	A good spirit prevails in our meetings,
and those who take an active part in the 
Society are doing much good in the cause
of Zion by relieving the necessities of the 
poor and helping to forward the public works.
	Wishing you continued success in your 
arduous editorial labors, I remain your sis-
ter in the Gospel.
	A. L. Cox, Manti R. S.

	Secretary's Report of Manti R. S., for the 
year ending Feb. 1st, 1878.
Total receipts for that time............$389. 98
	Expenditures.
For the Temple............................	  96. 56
For the Meeting House...............	  92. 42
For the Poor................................	  25. 38
For Woman's Book.....................	  25. 00
For the contingent expenses.......	  42. 99
	Total					282. 35
Balance in cash, wheat and other
	articles at cost value................107. 63
Total amount of wheat stored by R. S.
270 bushels.		A. L. Cox, Sec.

	MINERSVILLE, BEAVER CO.,
		Feb. 23d, 1878
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Society is in a healthy condition, and 
is, we trust, on that grand highways of im-
provement pointed out to us by our beloved
Prophet, Brigham Young, who has passed
behind the veil. Our meetings, which we
hold once a week, are well attended, and a
general good feeling prevails. We issue a
manuscript paper twice a month, the mem-
bers each editing it in turn; most of the
articles are original.  We still retain our
old name, but are waiting patiently for the
authorities to re-organize us and give us a
new one.  We have thirty-three names en-
rolled and keep adding to them from time

[Column 3]

to time. A short time ago, Brother Wil-
liam Fotheringham, of Beaver City, deliv-
ered a most interesting and instructive lec-
ture here, under the auspices of the com-
bined Associations of the young men and 
young ladies of this place; subject, "Man-
ners and Customs of the Hindoos." At its
close a vote of thanks was tendered the
speaker, for the pleasure afforded us. Im-
provement is our motto, and we do desire
to keep pace with our sisters in the onward
march of time, and be united with them in
every good word and work. God grant the
time may come soon when wickedness shall
be swept off the face of the earth, aed Zion
will arise and shine, and her daughters shall
be found worthy of the place and station
prepared for them, if faithful to their cove-
nants.  Praying that this may be the happy
lot of us all, and wishing you continued
success and prosperity, we subscribe our-
selves,
	Yours, &c.,
		MELISSA LEE, President,
		RACHEL MARSHAL, Sec'y,
		LOUISA WEEDEN, Ass't Sec'y


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Dr. Hammond on Sleep —In a recent lecture
on "Sleep," Dr. William A. Hammond, of New
York, said that the brain was at work not only
during every waking moment and in dreams, but
even in the deepest sleep it was employed in stor-
ing up new energies to be dissipated in the fu-
ture. If it were not for the fact that some parts
of the organ had comparative rest while others
were at work, it would soon wear out altogether.
Every pnlsation of the heart, every thought of
the mind destroyed some particle of brain matter,
and were it not for the gradnal building up of
fresh material which was going on at the same
time, it would speedily become a wreck. It was
during sleep that this recuperative process was
most effective; during wakefulness the expendi-
ture of brain force exceeded the accumulation of
new matter by a large proportion. The lecturer,
after defining sleep as due to the diminution of
blood in the brain, cited some curious instances of
its extraordinary power. He described a series
of interesting experiments by himself and others
upon a dog placed under the influence of ether, in
which pieces of the skull were removed, and
sleep proved to be accompanied by an absence of
blood in the vessels of the brain, and wakeful-
ness by the return of the same fluid in large
quantities. Anxiety or other emotions or affec-
tions carried to a morbid extent were more often
the cause of wakefulness than great mental labor,
although the latter, if over-prolonged or repeated
with undue frequency, was equally harmful. As
the capacity for sleep depended upon the amount
of blood in the brain, and that amount was largely
under the control of the individual, there was no
difficulty in so disposing the body or the system
as to invite sleep and overcome the evils of wake-
fulness. Many persons who would feel sleepy in
a chair, would become wide awake on lying down,
simply because of the flow of blood to the head.
For such persons a high pillow, reaching well un-
der the shoulders, would prove beneficial. Oth-
ers, by eating a light and easily digested meal just
before retiring secured the best of repose.


SILVER, WE are told, is the currency
earliest mentioned in Scripture.
	There has been a serious blockade of the
railroad between Ogden and Omaha; all
trains stopped for five days. Snow plows
worked diligently clearing the track, and 
trains have resumed running. About the
time of our going to press the first mail ar-
rived since the 8th inst.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE DUTCH IN HOLLAND.

	The Department of State has received a
report on the social and political condition
of the Dutch from the Minister of the
United States to the Hague. As an illus-
tration of the carefulness and steadiness of
the Dutch, the Minister says that there has
not been a bank failure in Holland during
the last forty years, and that the paper
money of the banks during that time has
been equal to gold. In regard to fire insur-
ance companies, there is no such thing as a
failure on record, and, while the rate of
insurance does not average more than half
of one per cent, the companies are in the
most flourishing condition, realizing twelve
to sixteen per cent. per annum. First class
railroad travel is only one cent per mile,
and yet the roads pay good dividends.
Pilfering officials are scarcely ever heard of,
and when they shock the nation by turning
up they are severely punished and forever
disgraced. No free passes are granted, and
managers and directors have no power to
pass anybody over the roads free. All
must pay the public rates. Dishonesty of
any kind or failure in business means pub-
lic dishonor, and utterly bars the dishonest
from any future public consideration. Four
millions of people live within an area of
20,000 square miles, a fact unprecedented
in any other country, and all appear to be
happy, prosperous, and contented. The
secret of this prosperity lies in the fact that
all live within their income, and that in-
dustry and honesty are principles so firmly
established that their violation is looked
upon as an outrage on the national charac-
teristics.


HAPPINESS—What elevating thoughts
are associated with the word happiness. It
is the aim of individual life. To attain a
degree of happiness amounting to content-
ment is considered worth all the efforts one
can make. To dispense happiness to others
should be one of the loftiest aims of exist-
ence; yet how shamefully this pleasure is
neglected. Selfishness creeps into the hu-
man heart absorbing its better qualities and
making its possessor wretched and unhappy
because the object pursued is controverted
through false means of attainment. If there
is any royal road to happiness it can only
be found by strictly complying with the re-
quirements of duty to God and our fellow-
men. When one learns what this implies
in its fullest sense, having no regrets to
banish, then there is some surety of a hap-
piness which will reach into eternity. We
owe more to others than we are wont to feel
willing to acknowledge.—Emile.


[Column 1]
Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to acc[-]mmodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Sh[-]w and
Saler[-]om to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine: her stock of: Hats made from
the la[-]e[-]t Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Importe[-] Hats and Bonnets, with every-
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment,
at moderate prices.
	Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
and Altered.

GENEALOGICAL!
LATTER-DAY SAINTS who come from the States of
	New England, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania
or Delaware, or whose ancestors were native of either
of those States, who desire to obtain their Genealogies,
could not do better than to employ B. F. Cummings, Jr.,
who proposes to go [-]ast for that purpo[-]e during the
present Winter. Parties interested should send for Cir-
cular, giving terms and full instructions.
		Addr[-]ss,
						B. F. CUMMINGS, JR.,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

[Column 2]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOOK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descriptions.
MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
AT
TEASDEL'S.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND ADDRESS—Main Street, over Dr.
Richards' Drug Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
DRY GOODS,
IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
