VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1878	No. 15.


VALE, 1877.

	BY HANNAH T. KING.

The year is passing, do I weep
	To see it sink into the past?
No, no, I have not one regret
	Of all its days, this is the last,
Had it no charms?–a very few,
	And yet mid all I have been blest,
But what a struggle life has been
	To gain one Oasis of rest!
One spot whereon to cast my Soul,
	And say to all, now peace, be still,
Let me in joy and sunshine bask,
	For one brief moment take my fill;
Yet life! I love thee! life alone
	is God's own spirit unto all,
And 'tis so rich, so full, so good,
	We need the wormwood and gall
To keep us in the narrow way,
	The plodding, sterile road of life,
To hold the lamp above our head
	To save us from much woe and strife.
Then pass old year. I bow you out
	With all respect, and grateful love
For well I know Time is a boon
	A censer swayed from hands above!

And though the thorns blend with the rose,
	And wheat and chaff together blend.
And shade and sunshine strew our path,
	In all a blessing God doth send.

And every day the eternal pile
	But numbers wealth, our own to call,
In the grand Future of our lives
	When God with us is All in all.

S. L. City, Dec. 1877.


[Column 1]

THE CHRISTIANCY BILL.

BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	This wonderful bill! purports to disfran-
chise the women of Utah, and also to de-
prive this people of rights and priviliges,
not only accorded them as citizens of a free
Republic, but that they have fairly earned
as pioneers of a new country. Settling a
desert land and building up towns and
cities, enduring all the toil and fatigue in-
cident to a frontier life is deserving dis-
franchisement according to the equitable
judgment of some wise men who talk about
honor and honesty and sit in high places to
make laws for the nation.
	But for the bone and sinew of the men
and women of this community, and some
whose graves are now fresh and green in
our memories, this beautiful valley and this
broad expanse of Territory, with its pros-
perous towns and villages, would never
have been wrested from sterility, and the
savage hordes which infested it.
	Having made homes in the wilderness
for thousands of industrious loyal citizens,
forsooth, some lazy, trifling office-seeker
would defraud an honest people of their
hard-earned homes and the freedom which
to true hearted men and women, is dearer
than life. Among other artistically(?) writ-
ten clauses there is one relating to the
"elective franchise" conferred upon women
in this Territory which we will republish,
as it relates specially to the subject for
which the women of our dear Republic are
now laboring earnestly and bravely. Here
it is. "And that the act of the Territori-
al legislature of said Territory entitled "An
act conferring upon women the elective
franchise; approved February twelfth, eigh-

[Column 2]

teen hundred and seventy, and all other
acts or parts of acts of said Territorial legis-
lature, so far as the same may have estab-
lished, or attempted to establish, any other,
or different qualification of electors in said
Territory, or any part thereof, from those
in this section above provided, are hereby
disapproved, annulled and repealed."
	The Bill goes on to provide for a secret
ballot, etc. Mr. Christiancy and those who
have labored indefatigably to get up this
extraordinary bill, should know how the
blood of true patriotic, American women
boils with indignation when reading this
miserable attempt at a pretext to deprive
them of what their forefathers fought and
bled for:—LIBERTY. Not only do we feel
that we are justly entitled to the ballot by
birth and American blood, but by the hard-
ships of a pioneer life shared with our hus-
bands, brothers and fathers. There are in
Utah New England women, daughters of
the old Puritans who will not easily be si-
lenced, and after forsaking home and friends,
enduring trials worse than death, they will
defend the rights so dearly earned, with
the true patriotism of old '76. We would
like to see this Mr. Christiancy and his col-
leagues who know so well how to dispense
justice, and how to dispose of the vexed
question "what to do with the Mormons."
	The enemies of the Mormons should not
be slow in according to this most honorable
(?) gentleman a vote of thanks for so ably
expressing their sentiments, and aiding
Congress to dispatch business of importance
in a wholesale manner.
	Does the right honorable (?) Mr. Chris-
tiancy think that Mormon women will sit
tamely down and be dispossessed of their
just rights? Rights earned, if not inherited,
by peril, by toil, and by sacrifice offered up
with bleeding hearts:—murdered prophets,
starved and ill-clad children, plundered
homes, untimely deaths of fathers, mothers,
brothers, sisters, babes and friends—and for
all these ten thousand wrongs recorded in
the annals on high, there is no redress for
Mormon women; and even this is not
enough, men must concoct bills to push
them to the last extreme. Of the issue of
such brave (?) legislation the future shall
speak in the voice of "fifty thousand daugh-
ters of Zion."
	S. L. City, Dec. 29, 1877.


[For the EXPONENT.
		TO THE YOUNG SISTERS.

	We, young sisters, should be alive to our
duties as a Mutual Improvement Associa-
tion. Our beloved President Young; in
his wisdom, caused to be organized these
Associations for our learning and improve-
ment, and also for a wiser purpose even,
that we might awake ourselves from our
slumbers, to know in whom we believe and
in what we believe. Heretofore we have
glided quietly along, day after day, and
year after year, thinking and caring
little about the things of God; but now is
the day that we are commanded to awake,
and arise, and put on the armor of Christ,
and serve God with all our hearts. I think
and ponder in my heart many times, of our

[Column 2]
conduct as daughters of Zion, and wonder
how it is that we have been left to go in
the path of folly and nonsense for so long,
but I suppose it was necessary that we
might know and realize the difference be-
tween the two paths. It is often said that
as the heavens are higher than the earth,
so are God's ways higher than our ways;
then I, for one, think it is high time we
were beginning to learn the ways of the
Lord, for if we ever expect to associate
with holy angels and dwell in the presence
of God, we have got to undergo a great
change in all our ways. We must become
polite and refined in our manners; our very
thoughts must undergo a great change;
yes, our thoughts and words must become
pure and chaste. Let us young sisters go
hand in hand in the path that has been
marked out for us; let us not be behind in
any good thing, but show by our examples
that they are worthy of imitation. Let us
be on our guard, and watch that we are not
led astray; we may think that we are strong,
but let us beware, for those not of us say,
"The way to overthrow Mormonism is to
bring here their smooth-tongued, polished,
fascinating men of the world, to influence
and lead away the daughters of Zion;" how
many of the daughters of Zion have been
duped by men who had no fear of God, no
regard for virtue, no integrity of character.
It has been the fate of many. Many a fond
mother has seen her daughter in the path
of ruin, and her tears and pleadings have
been of no avail. The daughters would
not heed or see the consequences; they
would persist in their disobedience and
"marry for love," but in most instances, the
first thing they know the husband must go
away, "to look after business," of course;
but the sequel generally is, they are for-
saken and left to abide the consequences of
desertion the best they can. This is only
the most general denoument. In hundreds
of instances the tenderest feelings of wife
and mother are cruelly betrayed.
	But I trust we girls who are members of
these organizations will take a different
course, and if brought in contact with such
characters, not be influenced by them in
any way, but maintain our own dignity and
remain true and steadfast in the principles
of our holy religion. We are their supe-
riors, and not inferiors. Let us honor our
divine principles; we profess to be the
choice offspring of God, and have His Holy
Priesthood in our midst: then let us stand
up and defend the right, and never be led
astray from that which we believe, but be
proud to think that we are among the fa-
vored few that dwell upon the earth, and
never, NEVER dare to lower ourselves to be
led by those that dwell in darkness, and
know not God. I most earnestly hope that
none of us will ever be guilty of marrying
an unbeliever, or of being married out of
the order of the Holy Priesthood, that we
may be recognized by Him and all the holy
ones that dwell in the celestial kingdom of
our God. May we live obedient to the
commandments of God; that we may re-
ceive His blessing, and our posterity after
us. May we be a bold and valiant band in
the truth, and do the will of our Father in
Heaven.							E. S.


114		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	Special meeting held in the Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Rooms Saturday Dec. 22,
1877, at 2 o'clock p. m., per appointment.
Miss Eliza R. Snow was chosen Chairman,
Mrs. E. B. Wells Secretary, and Miss Amy
Adams Assistant Secretary. President
John Taylor and others of the Apostles
were invited to be present at this meeting,
also Bishop Edward Hunter and Elder A.
M. Musser, but in consequence of important
business, the brethren of the Quorum of the
Twelve were unable to attend. However the
sisters were very happy to have the com-
pany of the Presiding Bishop Edward Hun-
ter and also Elder Musser. The Chairman
explained to the sisters why this special
meeting had been called. First, to transact
business pertaining to the Relief Society,
and Secondly to discuss "Woman's Suf-
frage," the subject of petitions to the
Forty-fifth Congress, etc. * Miss Snow stat-
ed that President Young had inaugurated a
movement previous to his death, which
she considered proper to carry out. At a
special meeting of the ladies of Weber Co.
President Young had appointed Mrs. Jane
S. Richards to preside over the various
branches of the Relief Society in that Stake
of Zion, and had appointed a meeting to be
convened three months from that time, at
which he requested they should bring a
written report from each society in the
county, of their progress and finance from
their first organization. Miss Snow then
said pursuant to this example it is the in-
tention to-day to appoint a board of officers
to preside in this Stake of Zion over the
various branches of the Relief Society in
this county, and to hold quarterly meetings
in this city, when reports will be read from
each district, or branch of Relief Society in
this Stake. After making these and other
more definite explanations, the Chairman
nominated Mrs. Mary I. Horne President of
the Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake of
Zion; the vote was unanimous. Mrs. Elmi-
na S. Taylor and Mrs. Sarepta Heywood
were chosen as her Counselors, and sus-
tained by the vote of the assembly. Mrs.
Elizadeth Howard was appointed Secretary,
and Mrs. Maria Wilcox Corresponding Sec-
retary, also sustained unanimously. The
first Quarterly Meeting of the various
branches of Relief Society of Salt Lake
Stake, will be held in the Fourteenth Ward
Assembly Rooms, Saturday March 23d, 1878
at 2 o'clock p. m. At this meeting it is ex-
pected a full report will be given of the
progress and financial condition of each re-
spective society by the secretaries of the
same. After the first report, quarterly re-
ports will be given every three months,
that all appropriations, disbursement and
matters of importance may be generally
known. There is no doubt but this move-
ment will be of great practical benefit to
those who labor in these organizations, as
well as of special interest to all who are
working for the elevation of mankind and
the progress of the Latter-day work. Miss
Snow said during her remarks to the sis-
ters, that should the sisters wish any aid in
making out their first reports she could
probably help them to references, as she
had by her, reports from the different
branches of the Relief Society, furnished
her in making up a full report for the Wo-
man's Department of the Centennial Ex-
position. After the first business had been
dispatched, the Chairman stated that the
women of this Territory had been solicited
by the National Suffrage Association, at
Washlngton, D. C., to aid them in obtain-
ing signatures for the Sixteenth Amend-

[Column 2]
ment to the Constitution of the United
States, which amendment is designed to
prohibit the several states and territories
from disfranchising United States citizens
on account of sex; otherwise to permit wo-
men to enjoy the rights and priviliges of
citizenship which is now denied them with
two exceptions Utah and Wyoming. Miss
Snow dwelt eloquently upon the heroism of
the ladies engaged in this movement in
the East, and the sisterly feeling they had
manifested for the women in Utah when
an attempt was made to repeal Woman
Suffrage in Utah two years ago; and further
that at the present time, a bill was before
the House of Congress waiting to be acted
upon, which was designed to deprive this
people of the priviliges they now enjoy.
She entreated those who had not yet be-
come citizens to do so without delay.
	Mrs. Horne arose and thanked the sis-
ters for the honor conferred upon her, in be-
ing called to preside in Salt Lake Stake of
Zion, over the various branches of the Re-
lief Society, said that she did not feel her-
self capable but by the assistance of the
spirit of God she would do her best in the
position to which she had been called. Mrs.
Horne made some remarks on the Suffrage
Question. Mrs. Zina D. Young expressed
her ideas upon Suffrage for Women and its
effects upon their elevation and progres-
sion, said many excellent things. Mrs.
Woodruff spoke upon the subject of duties
and trifies and their bearing upon mightier
matters, and exhorted the sisters to use
wisdom; alluded to the way in which the
sisters obtained the Suffrage.
	Bishop Edward Hunter addressed the sis-
ters for a few minutes, praising their good
works; thought he had a better opportunity
than any of the brethren to understand the
great good the sisters were accomplishing
in caring for the poor and sick, and in help-
ing to build Temples ; he said it was wo-
man's province to work in these noble and
benevolent spheres, and that they were bet-
ter adapted to minister in these callings
than the brethren. The Bishop alluded pa-
thetically to the days of sorrow that are to
come to the nations of the earth. Elder
A. M. Musser arose and addressed the sis-
ters, spoke of the necessity of taking out
their naturalization papers, those who had
been born in foreign lands, told them that
then it would be their privilege to pre-empt
or homestead land, which would help to
make them independent practically. Bro.
Musser said he had been thinking during
the meeting he should like to have some of
those honorable members of Congress; who
are urging special legislature, there in that
assembly. Elder Musser expressed his be-
lief in the essential help of woman, in all
that is calculated to elevate or ameliorate
the condition of society. His ideas were
quite in accordance with those expressed
in the poem:

		"The hand that rocks the cradle
		Is the hand that rocks the world."

He spoke of the opinions entertained of
this people abroad, and how they were
looked down upon, but said that a great
deal of prejudice was being removed. El-
der Musser is liberal in his views on what
is termed the Woman Question, he has
great faith in her capabilities and in her
spiritual influence.
	The Chairman then arose and made some
suggestive remarks and the meeting was
resolved into an Indignation Meeting, the
purport of it being to get an expression of
the feelings of the sisters on the petition
for Universal Suffrage and the Bill now be-
fore the House, in which it is proposed to

[Column 3]
repeal Woman's Suffrage in Utah, and dis-
franchise the Mormons wholesale.
	Mrs. Prescendia Kimball made quite a
patriotic speech on the subject; referred to
her ancestors as being valiant in the early
history of the United States, and concluded
by expressing her belief that God was for
this people. Mrs. Barney was very warm
upon the subject of freedom and independ-
ence, and illustrated her idea of union and
strength by relating the anecdote of the
King of Assyria and the bundle of sticks he
gave to his son to see if he could break
them. Her idea was "a long pull, and a
strong pull and a pull altogether," and we
would be sure to win. Mrs. Amanda Smith
spoke upon the subject feelingly, she allud-
ed briefly to the sufferings of this people at
the hands of this nation, and without re-
dress. This lady's husband and eldest son
were slain by the mob at Haun's mill, Mis-
souri, and a younger son was left by the
mob for dead. Mrs. Smith herself, was
shot at several times but the balls only
pierced her clothing. She had a babe in
her arms at the time, but it was no intim-
idation to the mob. Several other ladies
spoke a few minutes, and Mrs. Woodruff
proposed that the ladies express their in-
dignation and determination to stand by
the Constitution and laws of the United
States, and a desire that the day would
hasten when they could live under the laws
unmolested, by saying Amen, altogether,
which was three times repeated by the en-
tire congregation.
Remarks were make by several ladies
bearing upon the subject under discussion,
and a portion of the Christiancy Bill was
read to the assembly. Considerable gen-
uine enthusiasm was manifested by the la-
dies, and no doubt much thought has been
awakened to the subject of sustaining and
maintaining the freedom of religious lib-
erty, guaranteed by the Constitution, and
also to assist in soliciting for the Sixteenth
Amendment. Meeting adjourned sine die.

	HYRUM, CACHE Co., Nov. 20th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Young Ladies Mutual Improvement
Association was re-organized, Aug. 7th,
1877, with the following officers:
	Mrs. Boletta Allen, President.
	"	Mina Unsworth,		}
	"	Emma Williams,		}
	"	Saurine Liljenquist,	} Counselors.
	"	Anna C. Liljenquist,	}
	"	Phenetta Allen,		}
	"	Mary Evans,			}
	Miss Elnora Neilson, Secretary.
	"	Phenetta Anderson, Assis't Sec'y.
	On September 25, we were honored with
a visit from Sisters E. R. Snow, Zina D.
Young and E. Davis, and rejoiced in their
excellent teachings, for which we are truly
thankful and will try to profit by the same.
There was a full attendance of the Y. M. M.
I. Association; we had a good and interest-
ing time together, which will long be re-
member.
	Our Association numbers seventy-four
members. We have subscribed fifty dollars
to the Logan Temple, and since our organ-
ization we have made six quilts and nu-
merous other articles. We have purchased
two books, entitled "The Women of Mor-
mondom" and "The Palestine Tourists,"
which contain much good reading, and we
hope to make our meetings more interest-
ing with them.
	Knowing the good your valuable paper
is doing, we pray for its extended circula-
tion. Your sister in the Gospel,
			ELNORA NEILSEN, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A REVERIE.

Is there not light enough for all,
That some may languish in a dungeon wall?
Is there not air and sunshine, Oh my God!
For all that dwell above the earth's green sod?
That some may never feel the zephyrs breath,
But walk through life as in the shades of death.

Is there not room for all or must some give
Their fleeting breath that others still may live;
Not bread for all thy children here below,
That some the bitter pangs of hunger know,
And while bright streams of water flowing by,
Must fit the deepest anguish thirsting die.

Is there not love enough for all on earth,
Or must some have a desolated hearth:
That one may drink the sunshine pure and high
And others deep within the darkness sigh?
Tho’ sweet and clear may be the minstrel's strain,
Its notes are touched in hearts by keenest pain.

Upon the breeze we hear the happy song,
A wail of anguish bears the next along,
Laughter comes mingled with deep sorrow's cry,
And comes unto our heart the question why—
The same hand gives, the same hand takes away,
'Tis hard to learn life’s lesson day by day.

Our earth is stricken sore her borders fair
Blighted and perishing with sin and care;
God’s providences oft seems strange and dim,
Our eyes too weak and blind to look to Him
Who gave his life upon the cross to tell,
Our Father loved his children, Oh! so well.

He gave the noblest, best beloved of all.
And through the One saved millions from the fall;
And when we doubt his love could we but turn
To Calvary’s cross where love doth purest burn,
Its radiant beam through ages still as bright
As it shone forth upon that bitter night.

When those who loved him stood afar and wept,
And fear and horror o’er the wicked crept;
As darkness terrible and thunder's roil
Shrouded and shook the earth from pole to pole,
While from the Cross His voice in prayer arose
To God for mercy on his bitter foes.

"The world which sets this right,” we there shall
	know
Why purest joy is linked to keenest woe;
If we but seek the paths which Christ has trod
And steadfast hold unto the "iron rod,"
Life's mists and darkness all shall flee away,
Before the dawn of the Millennial day.
								Hope.


[For the Exponent.
PICTURES IN THE NEW YEAR.

	And so the Old Year has gone, and the
New Year ushered in. The last swirl of
the wings of old '77 has died away, and we
stand in the dim, misty dawn of the open-
ing year. How many buried hopes—how
many bitter tears—how many aching hearts,
have seared and blistered the pages of the
book now closed forever. And yet, me-
thinks I see, in the faint morning light,
fonr figures, with faces turned to the future,
awaiting the events which are coming with
stealthy steps.
	The first is an old man, bent and worn.
His dim, aged eyes are lifted, with scarcely
a passing interest to the scene which daily
unfolds to his gaze. His face is patient and
sad. His heart echoes no hope, but to die,
and that in peace. By his side stands a
woman, whose dignified mien and comely
form denote her the wife and mother.
Calmly and serenely she looks forward, for
she has been so purified by trials and sweet-
ened by adversity, that her conscience is
like a spring of clear water. She hath
taught her children righteousness and sur-
rounded them with the atmosphere of truth.
The third figure in the group, with restless
feet and eager eyes, scans the distant hori-
zon with hope, not fear; with confidence,
not doubt. The curving, melting outlines
of her form bespeak the maiden, whose
first sweet flush of youth has not yet been
weighted with care, or saddened with grief.
Her dreams are sweet, but pity 'tis they're


mostly dreams! but who can tell? beneath
the sparkling, dancing surface may be the
grandest possibilities of rich, ripe fruits.
Clinging to her arm, a little child with up-
lifted eyes and smiling lips looks bravely
forward. With the blank patience of child-
hood he calmly awaits the day, when time
shall usher in the life which the future
holds for him. He simply knows that all
his wants shall be supplied; and cares but
little for the rest.
	Do ye not see some one of these four pic-
tures, framed in your hearts and homes?
And if ye do, seek with love to comfort and
aid the faltering steps of age; lift some of
the burdening cares of ripe maturity; guide
the steps of wayward youth; and teach by
example, and engraft upon the mind of
rosy childhood Divine Truth.
	S. L. City, Jan. 1, 1877.	S. Y. D.


[For the EXPONENT.
REFORMATION IN ORTHOGRAPHY.

	It seems to be a day of reformation, a
time of improvement, in more things than
one.  There is scarcely anything in our
everyday lives, but that needs more or less
re-modeling.  Considerable has been said,
and a little has been done, in regard to or-
thography.  All admit the great need of an
improvement in our mode of spelling.  A
great amount of time is required to master
the art, more than we can spare out of our
short lives.  Very few ever become profi-
cient in spelling; there is no regular sys-
tem, but each word has to be learned sepa-
rately, and with the vast amount of words
in the English language, it takes a great deal
of time that ought to be spent in learning
other branches of school education.
	Now, if we could have a system that
spells by sound, it would be much easier,
and much time would be saved, which is
an important item with the young of the
rising generation.  It is better to learn cor-
rectly at first; it is very hard to erase from
the mind false impressions, and it is diffi-
cult to receive the truth when the mind is
clogged with error. False ideas and bad
habits and customs by long usage become
second nature, and it is hard to discern be-
tween truth and error until the mind is free
from prejudice and false notions; hence the
necessity of beginning the education right.
When I see children beginning to go to
school, and learning the present system (or
no system) of spelling, I look with pity
upon so much waste of time, and so much
needless labor.  There is a right way to
do everything, and we as Latter-day Saints
ought to be able to introduce a better mode
of spelling than any that exists at the pres-
ent time.  Our alphabet is very imperfect,
not having all the sounds represented, and
having some letters that are worse than
useless, they are w, x, y, q, c.  Many let-
ters are used where they should not be
used; some letters represent two sounds;
this should not be; one letter should not
represent more than one sound.  For those
letters that are discarded it will be neces-
sary to substitute others, or adopt new ones.
Now my idea of spelling is to analyze words
and find the sounds that make the word,
and when we have found out what sounds
are in a word, there will be no trouble in
spelling it correctly; nor any trouble in
knowing how to pronounce a word when
we hear it spelled.  The true way of spell-
ing is very easy to the new beginner, more
so than is possible to those who have re-
ceived their early impressions incorrectly;
yet they, by the assistance of the Holy
Spirit, will be enabled to discern the truth.
The voice or breathing sound is necessary
to articulate letters, therefore no vowel
should be allowed to end a consonant., but
they should be sounded, ub, ud, um, un,
and so on.  Every sound that can be made,
or is used in speaking, should have a char-
acter to represent it, and have place in the
Alphabet.
	The letters we should adopt that we have
not got are sounds such as these signify:
ush, uzh, ung; uth flat, uth sharp; e should
be used instead of y, oo, as in book, should
be used instead of w; uh is the voice or
breath, and should be used where h is now
used; u should have but one sound as a, e,
i, each have.  The way we pronounce it,
it has two sounds, e and u, yu; w is a com-
bination of sounds, so cannot be a letter
but a word; letters should not be spelt by
words, but words by letters; it should not
be possible to spell a letter, they are, or
should be but one sound.
	The old characters can be retained as
far as they go, or new ones adopted, but
none should represent more than one sound.
There are thirty-four sounds in our lan-
guage.  One kind of letter is sufficient, the
capitals being made larger than the others.
It is difficult to write on this subject as there
are not characters to represent all the sounds.
It might be made plainer to the under-
standing by speaking upon it.  The modi-
fied oo as in book, and the full sound oo as
in boon, may be represented by one char-
acter, or two, as may be determined here-
after, giving the Alphabet thirty-five let-
ters.
ub.			ut.			a as in hate.
ud.			uv.			"	" hat.
uf.			uz.				" " hard.
ug.			uch.			"	" hall.
uk.			ush.			e	" meet.
ul.			uzh.			"	" met.
um.			ung.			i	" ride.
un.			uth, sharp.	"	" bit
up.			uth, flat.		o	" note.
ux.			uj.			oo	" book,
us.			uh as in nut.	u	" rule.
ow as in owl.
	S. L, City, Nov. 18, 1877.	E. N. G.


MUSIC.

	Mnsic—that mystic power which sways
mens hearts, whether they will or no—how
sweet and yet how strong its influence!
and how thankful we should be to our
Heavenly Father for this precious gift; not
for that only which emanates from costly
instruments, but for that also which, though
humble, is no less sweet.
	From each rock and tree by the roadside
comes the songs of birds thrilling our hearts
with exquisite joy. Ah, how sweet are the
songs of happy woodland birds. And the
human voice—what is sweeter, purer than
the joy of some young spirit finding vent
in musical sounds? Thanks be to the Di-
vine Master for implanting in our hearts
this love for music. What other gift could
he have conferred upon us that would add
to our happiness as this does?
	O music, thy power is indeed a mystic
one. When we are weary and sore oppress-
ed, thy voice can roll away the burden;
when our whole being is swayed by uncon-
trollable passions, thou canst calm the
troubled waters; and when the spirit of
good seems to have flown far from us, thou
canst influence us to return to his guidance.
	O music, thou art indeed a blessing!
With thy help we can ascend to heights of
joy before ne'er dreamed of; and can com-
fort the sick, cheer the last moments of the
dying, and help the lost wanderer back to
the fold.				JAMES PERRIGO.


l16
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMILINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthy, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JAN. 1, 1878.


[Column 1]
		A HAPPY NEW YEAR.

	A Happy New Year! How familiar this
phrase has become. Yet what fascination it
still has for us all, as it rings out heartily from
some dear friend. What shall it bring to us?
is one of the first thoughts which spontane-
ously arises in the mind. It is a time sugges-
tive of reflection, when we launch forth upon
untried ground. Although one may pursue
the same daily avocations, may not even have
a holiday (for holidays are rarities to some),
yet there is always something in the thought
of the New Year which strikes home to the
inner self, and appeals strongly to the better
nature within. There is really something
emotional in the thought that a new record is
to be entered upon, a new era is opening, in
which perhaps a brighter and cheerier prospect
may dawn upon our lives. Our hearts seem
drawn out in kindlier feelings towards all man-
kind, and involuntarily we grow charitable
towards others, as we feel the need of charity
and forbearance being extended to us. How
much good we poor mortals could do to one an-
other, if we were a little more kindly, a little
more thoughtful, a little more generous towards
a brother, or sister. In the cultivation of the
finer feelings and manner there is certainly a
great lack. It is often said, "So and So has a
rough manner, is abrupt in speech, but his
heart is all right;" and people readily accept
the explanation especially if their own tender
feelings have not been wounded too often.
But surely there is such a thing as being noble
and magnanimous at heart, and giving some
token of it by one's manner. Or is the world
so full of spurious courtesy, that a real gentle-
man, or lady, must, forsooth, adopt the man-
ners of a boor, rather than be classed with the
polished, lest they should be thought hypo-
crites. One thing is certain, that the delicate
deference and chivalrous courtesy that charac-
terized the true gentlemen and lady, seem to
have become almost a thing of the past. Or is
it because in this fast age people have not time
to observe towards each other those delicate
amenities that are always so pleasing in daily
social intercourse.
	There is nothing more desirable for any peo-
ple than to see their youth excel in all that is
noble and elevating, for they are to be the
strong motive power of the coming era, and
upon them will rest the great structure of so-
ciety, and they must eventually solve for them-
selves and each other all the great problems of
life. In the new year now dawning, would it
not be well for all to form some new resolu-
tions, and keep them faithfully, in regard to
their bearing towards their fellowmen. A lit-
tle more forbearance with the erring, a little
more courtesy towards their equals, and a tender
deference for the aged, or superiors in position

[Column 2]
or knowledge, would greatly enchance the
beauty and merits of young people. Indul-
gence has perhaps been one of the prevailing
influences in bringing about the disrespect so
apparent now, that it is spoken of everywhere
as the "spirit of the age." We trust we have
not digressed from our subject too much, it is
always considered in keeping to speak of the
New Year in connexion with improvement,
and if we have trespassed we beg pardon, such
was not our intention.
	Standing upon the threshold of the new
year just dawning upon us, and having so re-
cently bid a brief farewell to the one now gone
forever, we are full and running over with
thoughts of the future. There are many great
questions at issue, that ere another new year
dawns will probably be decided. Some of these
are of infinite importance to this people; but
it is well to cultivate faith and hope to the ut-
most. Those who have the sublimest faith in
God and His interpositions are the most truly
happy. It lifts the human soul above doubts
and fears, and surrounds it with an atmos-
phere of serenity that dispels gloom.
	Life is so full of changes to all, even the
most favored, that the cultivation of every
Christian grace is necessary to ensure even a
moderate amount of happiness.
	If the children now growing up in Zion are
to become polished stones, as it were, in the
Structure, it is time their education commenced
in the cultivation of refinement and good
breeding. If they aspire to a high standard of
excellence physically, morally, intellectually
and spiritually, then there is also need of it
socially. There are many faults to correct in-
dividually and generally, and there is great
need of progress in many things, but if we as
individuals and as a people would seek to in-
spire lofty sentiments, and encourage high and
holy aims, with the knowledge the light and
understanding the Gospel imparts, surely
the blessing of God would attend such pro-
gressive efforts; and if only a few resolved to
carry out in their lives such vital principles,
they could have a powerful bearing upon the
associations and tendencies of those around
them. We are not alluding to individuals;
we know there is still some true courtesy
among the young, but we speak of generalities.
	May the year upon which we are all enter-
ing prove not only one of anticipation of great
and good results, but the realization of a change
which shall bring about, eventually, the res-
toration of rights to those now oppressed. May
our Father grant that the bills now before the
Forty-fifth Congress to better the condition of
society may be carried, and that all bills calcu-
lated to oppress loyal citizens of this great Re-
public may be null and void. May God move
upon the hearts of those in power, to so
amend the Constitution, as to give to all be-
neath its banners their respective rights and
privileges as one common brotherhood and
sisterhood, in their common country is our
prayer.
[handwritten] E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
	HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE LEGISLATURE of the Territory will con-
vene on Monday, January 14.  There is, it is
said, a vast amount of business on hand which
demands early attention.  It is to be hoped
these wise men will accomplish something
beneficial to the interests of the Territory, dur-
ing the present session.
	WE HAVE R. S. Reports and other articles,
also poetry, for the paper, which we are not 
able to publish this issue.  Our paper is very
small, (and we women have so much to say,)

[Column 2]
that we are obliged to manage shrewdly to 
make room for it all.  If our contributors will
be patient, we will do the best we can to please
them all.
	AUNT EM'S Letter and a poem by Emile are
crowded out to make room for comments upon
the Christiancy Bill, which are in order at the 
present date, especially as the women of Amer-
ica are working industriously to do for all wo-
men citizens what Mr. C. and his friends are
trying so hard to undo, lest a few heroic wo-
men–a little band of patriots here in the 
mountains–should enjoy the same privilege
of voting etc. allotted to the dram-seller, the 
gambler, the libertine.
	CARISTMAS DAY passed off quietly, and 
everything seemed to combine to make the 
occasion a pleasant one.  The weather even
was suggestive of the merriment and delight
which usually characterizes the holidays.  The
children were greatly pleased with the snow,
and the little sleds and mufflers and all the 
paraphernalia of Santa Claus was well-timed.
The merchants and shopkeepers took all the 
pains possible to provide everything of the best
quality, and make a tasteful display of their 
goods before the holidays, and money was the 
only scarce article to supply the ever increas-
ing yearly demands of Santa Claus.
	THROUGH THE courtesy of Mr. James Dwyer,
we have received the neat little work on house-
keeping and cooking, "Six Little Cooks, or 
Aunt Jane's 'Cooking Glass,' " published by
Jansen, McClurg & Co., Chicago.  It is pecu-
liarly adapted for little girls, to interest them
in the science of cooking, which is one of the 
arts with which the young should fully acquaint
themselves, if they expect to be good wives
and mothers and help to make happy homes
by understanding the economy of cooking in
the best and readiest manner.  The book is 
written in the form of a story, and contains
recipes for all the varieties of dishes for dinner,
breakfast, etc., and suitable dishes for sick peo-
ple.
	TO-DAY THE "Juvenile Instructor," a favor-
ite periodical of the young people and especially
the children of Salt Lake City, commences its
thirteenth year.  It is an interesting little
paper, most ably edited, and should be in every
family in the Territory.  The paper is designed
for use in Sunday Schools, and always gives
some instructions for little learners on matters
of Church History.  In this way children may
obtain a knowledge of facts, that will be bene-
ficial to them and give them correct ideas of 
what has been endured in establishing this 
kingdom.  There are many very instructive
pieces about animals, birds, fishes, etc., that 
please the children and help them to acquire
information concerning the habits of dumb
creatures.  We congratulate the editor upon
his continued success, and recommend the Ju-
venile as a most valuable acquisition to the 
home literature of the Saints.
	THE PAST month two very destructive fires
have occurred in home manufacturing institu-
tions in Utah; the Woolen Factory burned
down in Brigham City, Dec. 21, was a very se-
rious loss to the people there in many ways.
It threw men out of employment, and of 
course was a great loss to individual families
on that account.  The people there are ener-
getically at work clearing away the debris to 
re-build, and are hopeful of having a factory in 
running order by the 4th of July next.  They
are certainly a most enterprising people.
	Mr. Clemetshaw, the owner of the Trunk
Factory burned in this city about the same
time, certainly deserves the sympathy and aid


[Column 1]

of friends. He had just succeeded in getting
a little start in business, and had prevented
the importation of this line of goods among
the merchants here. It is to be hoped that Br.
Cleme shaw will prosper in his efforts to re-
establish his branch of  home-manufacture.
	ON WEDNESDAY, the 19th of December last,
tne Relief Society of Big Cottonwood district
held their annual meeting, which we had the
pleasure of attending, in company with Miss
E. R. Snow and Mrs. M. I. Horne. The meet-
ing was well attended by the sisters of that
vicinity, although only two brethren were
present. The minutes read on the occasion
gave us a good idea of the sisters' energy and
devotion in good works. The annual report
was brief and comprehensive, and reflected
credit upon the Secretary, and also showed the
economy and good management which had
been used in disbursing means. The President
of the Society made a few opening remarks,
and explain[-]d to the sisters the object of the
petition to Congress now being circulated in
this Territory—to assist in obtaining Universal
Suffrage. Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. M. I. Horne
and Mrs. E. B. Wells each made some remarks.
The subjects treated upon were home manufac-
ture, the benefit of women's organizations,
the elevation of society, the bill before Con-
gress introduced by Christiancy; the building
of Temples, and other important matters relat-
ing to the latter-day work.
	THERE ARE so many items of interest in
writing up the editorial columns for home, that
it is impossible, in so small a paper as ours, to
mention all that would be gratifying to our
readers; but we would like to call the attention
of the people to the Commission Store for
Home Manufactures. They are constantly
adding to their stock new varieties of such
goods and articles as can be made in this Ter-
ritory. They have now so no very handsome
home maufactured ingrain carpeting. The
quality of the goods far surpasses that of the
same kind made in the East. There is no
sham about it; the colors are very bright and
would give a winter room a warm and cheer-
ful appearance. They have stocking-yarn of
a great variety of colors; table-covers and coun-
terpanes to suit the different tastes of the pur-
chasers; silk neckties and laces made here by
the sisters. An elegant assortment of flowers
for hats, bonnets, caps, etc. Shoes, stockings
and many other articles useful and warm for
this cold weather. Ladies and gentlemen,
please call at the Home Commission Store
first, before going elsewhere to purchase win-
ter supplies in this line.
	POEMS BY E. R. SNOW.—We have received,
from the Author, Miss E. R. Snow, a copy
of her second volume of poems. This book
has been published here, at the Deseret News
Office. It is tastefully bound in cloth, and has
upon the lid an artistic monogram. In the
front is a steel engraving of the author; the
picture gives to Miss Snow the characteristic
expression of deep thought, which is so well
known to those who are personally acquainted
with her features iu repose. There is no need
to introduce this talented lady to our readers,
for her fame as a writer has long been estab-
lished, and she is known here and abroad as
"Zion's Poetess."  Her book will speak for it-
self—there is no need for us to laud it; those
who read it will find a lofty tone of sentiment
in all the poems it contains. Many of the
poems are historical and will help to perpetu-
ate incidents and events in the lives of this
people. History combined in poetry is a por-
tion of fine art. The book was reverently dedi-

[Column 2]

cated by the author to President Brigham
Young previous to his death. Now, at its
publication, it closes with a very touching
poem written of his death and burial, entitled
'The Funeral of President Brigham Young."
The book is certainly a choice and valuable ac-
quisition to Mormon literature. It is a work
all young people's Societies should add to their
libraries. The price of the book is $1.25. We
say, Go forth, little volume, aud may you win
admiration for your pleasant companionship
and blessings for your author, by suggesting
happy thoughts, noble impul[-]es and holy am-
bitions.
	POEMS BY E. R. SNOW.—The second volume
of Miss E. R. Snow's poems is now ready for
the public. The literary effusions of Zion's
favorite poetess are of a high order and in-
spired with a heavenly spirit. They treat on
topics of peculiar interest to the Latter-day
Saints, and convey truths of great import
couched in chaste and lofty language. The
new volume contains upwards of one hundred
pieces and a fine steel engraving,—an excellent
portrait of the gifted authoress, handsomely
bound in full English cloth and neatly lettered
for the library or centre table. It forms a suit-
able Christmas or New Year's gift, and will
be sold at a low figure, to place it within the
reach of all. We cordially commend it to the
public aud have no doubt that the Relief So-
cieties will aid in bringing it to the attention
of the people of Utah. The book is published
at the "Deseret News" office and is a valuable
addition to the literature of the Territory.—
"Deseret News."
	SERICULTURE—The Deseret Silk Association
met at the Fireman's Hall December 8th, Mrs.
Zina D. Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young said she was devotedly engaged
in this work. The question was often asked,
was there money in it? Her answer was, Yes
by opening the way whereby hundreds could
find employment. It was for our own interest
to take hold of this branch of industry. Our
greatest drawback was the want of machinery
to prepare the silk for the home market, but
there was some prospect of getting it soon. She
had just returned from a visit to Farmington.
While there, she saw a lady knitting stockings
of silk and wool.
	Mr. Graves, of Provo, gave an interesting ac-
count of the progress of silk culture in the
southern part of Utah. He reported that he
had given to the sisters in the First Ward of
Provo an acre of ground to raise mulberry trees
on. There was not a place in Utah County
but had raised some silk. American Fork had
taken the lead in silk-raising.
	Mrs. Barney said it was over two years since
this association was organized. During that
time we had been corresponding east and west
for the benefit of this home industry. She had
traveled all over this Territory preaching silk;
trying to get the people to plant out mulberry
trees, and felt satisfied with our progress so far.
The society was a little crippled for means at
present, owing to buying so many cocoons of a
poor quality last year, which were a dead loss
until we get machinery to work them. This
Territory would be dotted all over with mul-
berry trees wherever they will grow, and we
would keep on until we make the industry a
success.
	Mr. George B. Wallace said he had been in-
terested in [-]his branch of business for a long
time and there were no doubts in his mind as
to it b[-]coming a success. Our bench lands
would be very valuable to plant out mulberry
trees on. We ought to encourage all home in-
dustries, find employment for our children,

[Column 3]

keep them around us and we would be a hap-
pier aud more blessed people. He was going to
plant out some mulberry seed.
	Mrs. Margaret P. Young said there was noth-
ing to hinder us from wearing silk dresses made
by our own hands if we would carry out the
counsels that had been given us.
	Mrs. Zina D. Young reported that Mrs. Car-
don, of Logan, was prepared to give a limited
number of young ladies lessons in the art of
reeling silk, on very reasonable terms.
	Meeting adjourned till the first Friday in
January, at this place at 3 p. m.
	R. SIMPSON, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DISCOURSE
	BY
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG,
	DELIVERED
	In the Tabernacle, Ogden.

[CONTINUED.]

	If I were talking to the brethren, I should
say no man in this church has the privilege or
right to enter into business, or go at anything
without having God in his thoughts, and ask-
ing for guidance and direction in all his ways.
And I will say to the mothers and sisters, now
give your children this correct tradition in
their yonth. As I was talking to one of my
wives, she said, “Who is there that teaches her
children these things?” I turned to one and
said, “There is one of my wives she has chil-
dren full of faith, because she made it her busi-
ness to teach them the tradition to believe in
God the Father, to call upon Him continually;
and God was in their thoughts from morning
until evening, all the time they were awake.”
Says I, “There is the woman; she has taught
her children.” Now I know that mothers can
teach their children; and they ought to teach
them, and this is my duty to tell you what to
do in this case.  Remember to traditionate your
children in the nurture and admonition of the
Lord, Teach them as they ought to be taught,
and they will have faith from their youth up,
and the Spirit of the Lord to direct them, that
they may never lose sight of this faith in Christ,
and our Heavenly Father; and when they are
old they will not depart from the good path. I
am firm in the faith, and verily believe, that
if mothers will bring up their children aright,
and give them that early training that they
should have, their children will grow up and
never depart from the path of rectitude and
truth.
	The mothers are the moving instruments in
the hands of Providence to guide the destinies
of nations.  Let the mothers of any nation
teach their children not to make war, the chil-
dren would grow up and never enter into it.
Let the mothers teach their children, “War,
war upon their enemies, yes, war to the hilt!”
and they will be filled with this spirit.  Con-
sequently you see at once what I wish to im-
press upon your mind is, that the mothers are
the machinery that give zest to the whole man,
and guide the destinies and lives of men upon
the earth.  Now, then, I want to talk upon
other matters.  You can  just as you please;
you can rule this Stake of Zion.  Why, here
are Brother Peery and his two Counselors, they
cannot move one step unless you say so.  You
do not understand this, do you?  Why, all the
men in this Stake of Zion can go to some other
country, but when the ladies say thus and so,
all the men have to come to the standard. “But
we have an independence, you know; and I
would not like to pin my destiny to any wo-
man’s apron string.” But you see the force of
this education, which is forced upon them by
the teachings received in early childhood.
	(To be continued.)


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS FROM THE BALLOT BOX.

	Woman's general devotion to everything
except what immediately concerns her own
highest interests, her self-abnegation, self-
sacrifice have been so long and so sweetly
sung by poets, priests and philosophers as
the acme of human perfection, that femi-
nine vanity is quite apt to take that form
of expression. Now to my mind it is rath-
er pitiful than commendable for our young
women to go about begging funds to edu-
cate young men for the ministry or for mis-
sionaries to foreign lands, to decorate
churches, etc., while the majority of their
own sex are ignorant, helpless, degraded,
too poor to enter institutions of learning,
and if able are denied admittance. It is
not commendable for women to sustain
churches, in which the gifted of their sex
may not pray and preach, nor share in their
offices and honors, nor have a voice in its
business matters, creeds and discipline.
There is not a man in the Methodist church
that has done a better revival work than
Mrs Van Cott, and yet a California bishop
refused to ordain her. On making her ap-
plication Mrs. Van Cott said :
	"During the last year, through my labors,
I have brought one thousand seven hundred
and thirty-five persons into the Church.
Have I not shown my capacity to fill the 
position?"
	"Certainly," says the Bishop, you have."
	Says Mrs. Van Cott: "In order to accom-
plish these conversions I have travelled in
one year 7,208 miles. Have I not shown
my capacity to bear fatigue and exposure,
and to renounce temporal comforts in labor-
ing for the faith?"
	"Yes," says the Bishop, "You have."
	Says Mrs. Van Cott : "In the prosecu-
tion of my ministerial work I have written
in one year, 650 letters ; and I have attend-
ed 828 religious meetings ; and I have
preached 399 sermons. Could more be ask-
ed? What man of you all has done more
than this?"
	"None," says the Bishop, "none."
	Says Mrs. Van Cott : "I have spent 1,776
hours in religious meetings during one year.
Has any minister in the land exhibited a
greater zeal and a more devoted steadfast-
ness in the faith?"
	"None," says the Bishop, "none. You
have traveled and written and prayed and
preached ; and 1,735 persons, received
through your ministrations into the Church,
bear living and joyful testimony to your
power in converting sinners to Christ and
saving souls from damnation ; but—but—
but— you are a—"
	The Bishop paused.
	"Speak! speak!" said Mrs. Van Cott.
"Say what I am that should keep me from
doing the work of my God and Savior?"
	Said the Bishop ; "You—you—you—Mrs.
Van Cott, are a—you are—"
	"Oh, go on," said Mrs. Van Cott. "Do
not hesitate to tell me what is the terrible
thing you would name. Go on. What ter-
rible crime have I committed, that you
should disqualify me for Christ's work?
Speak—name it—and I withdraw my ap-
plication."
	Said the Bishop : "I will not ordain you.
You are a—"
	"What am I?" said Mrs. Van Cott. "Out
with it. Speak like a man. Name my
crime."
	"Oh!" said the Bishop, "it is no crime—
no crime, I suppose, Mrs. Van Cott., but
only a terrible misfortune."
	"Oh! name my misfortune then," said
Mrs. Van Cott. "If it is one that debars

[Column 2]
me from ordination to do the work of my
Heavenly Master, then, indeed, it is a mis-
fortune ; but I will bear it. Name it, and
through Christ's help, I will bear it."
	"I will not ordain you," said the Bishop.
"You are—you are—God give me strength
to speak it! You are—a—WOMAN!"—
E. Cady Stanton


[Column 1]

	R. S. REPORTS.

	HYRUM, CACHE CO., NOV. 20, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	On Oct. 25th, we were favored with a
visit from Sisters E. R. Snow, Z. D. Young
and E. Davis; our Bishop and his Counsel-
ors, besides a number of brethren and sis-
ters from Paradise, were present.  Our
meeting was one of great interest, and the
Spirit of God rested upon both speakers and
hearers. It is the first visit we have had
from Sisters Snow and Young, but we hope
it will not be the last.  Among other ex-
cellent instructions, they urged home in-
dustries and silk culture, and also exhibit-
ed specimens of Utah silk, which were very
beautiful, showing that our climate is suit-
able for that branch of industry.  They
also spoke in favor of the EXPONENT, and
urged the sisters to sustain it.
	The members of our Society, as a major-
ity, are alive to their duties, both in look-
ing after the needy and helping to build
Temples; we are goig to take the counsel
of our sisters and open a store for our
home products, and hope to have it started
before Christmas.
	CHRISTINA LILJENQUIST, President,
	N. M. NEILSEN, Secretary.

	SMITHFIELD, Dec. 13, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	On the 29th of October we had a visit
from Sisters E. R. Snow, Zina D. Young,
and Elizabeth Davis, from your city, who
spoke to us words of comfort and gave us
good instruction in the various missions
that women are expected to perform in
this kingdom; may God give us wisdom
and strength to carry them out, and may
these noble sisters live long to speak words
of comfort and encouragement to the sisters
of Zion.  In November, our esteemed and
worthy President, Elizabeth T. Morehead,
resigned her office as President of this Re-
lief Society on account of poor health, we
were very sorry to lose her for she has been
a mother, counselor, and friend to us all,
ever since the first organization of the So-
ciety in this place, the sisters presented her
a testimonial of their love and respect, we
also got up a surprise party and gave her
a number of useful presents.  Since then
our Society has been reorganized with the
following officers.  Adaline Barber, Presi-
dent, Cordelia M. Morehead, and Mary Jane
Roskelly, Counselors; Elizabeth T. Jushaw,
Secretary, Margaret Story, Treasurer.  We
have built a small but comfortable house to
meet in, and we had it dedicated on the
10th of this month.  We have stored up
some grain, not so much as we should have
done had the grasshoppers not destroyed
so much this season; we have a store start-
ed which we hope will encourage the sis-
ters to wear home-made articles, and thus
do away with importations from Babylon.
We are trying to keep pace with every
good work that comes along.  That we may
be enabled to continue is the wish of your
sister and co-worker in Zion.
	ELIZABETH T. JUSHAW.

[Column 2]
	VERNON SETTLEMENT, Dec. 14, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The sisters of this little settlement were
organized into a branch of the Relief Socie-
ty, January 26th, 1877, with the following
sisters as officers:
	Mrs. Jennet C. Sharp, President.
	"	Mary Hokensen
	"	Mary Ann Bennion,
	"	Elizabeth Bennion, Secretary,
	"	Lula Sharp, Treasurer.
[The following is typed to the right side of "Mary Hokenson" and "Mary Ann Bennion"]
Couselors.
	Our settlement is somewhat scattered,
and several of the sisters cannot speak our
language, yet our meetings are well attend-
ed, and we are increasing in unity of feel-
ing and are trying to do something toward
rolling on the great work.  We meet every
two weeks and always feel the influence of
the Spirit of God to be with us.  We have
thirty-two members enrolled, the young
ladies meeting with us, as we are so few in
number.  We have bought material and
have built a granary to store our wheat in,
of which we have thirty-nine bushels safe-
ly stored, in good condition.  Our desires
are for the success of all those who are
helping to build up the kingdom of God.
We remain your sisters in the Church,
	JENNET C. SHARP,
	ELIZABETH BENNION.


WOMAN'S WORDS.

 I rejoice that I live in this day and age
of the world, and I feel that I shall be dila-
tory indeed if I do not mingle my voice
and wield my pen for the glorious cause of
truth. I know that the cause of Zion is
rapidly advancing, and already the day-star
begins to shine forth in beautiful majesty
and loveliness; and woman's work seems to
be increasing; household duties and all the
various paraphernalia which heretofore
made up woman’s life or her whole duties,
seem to be only a part of the great life
mission.  There seems to be more require-
ments daily; and may God grant her wis-
dom, and humility and meekness of spirit
that her works may shine forth more and
more until the perfect day.  And now that
she is being called upon to come forth and
take her place beside man, to be his coun-
selor in the spheres that formerly was not
thought proper for “poor weak woman,”
Her example should shine before those not
so highly gifted, for all are not endowed
alike with nature’s gifts.  The power of
example is great, and while we are great in
goodness, let us also be good in greatness,
not forgetting to show ourselves kind to
the poor, and generous to all.  The Lord
said, “the poor ye have always,” as if there
would always be a test for us, and “if ye
do it unto one of the least of these,” ete.
Then we should not forget the small things
while alluding to the more weighty mat-
ters.
	As Christiancy is trying to get another
bill through Congress, let us sisters be a
firm phalanx, a unit of oneness, thaf will
terror the powerful enemies who seek to
overthrow and destroy our faith.
We have a good Relief Society in this
ward who are trying to carry out the coun-
sel of our late beloved President and oth-
ers, in Storing Grain, and all other duties
required of us.
	With prayers for the success of the EXPO-
NENT and all who assist to carry on woman’s
work, I remain your sister in the gospel,
ELIZABETH SMITH.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		119﻿


THE WOMEN OF MORMONDOM.

	The Provo "Enquirer" thus speaks upon
a matter which will doubtless interest all
patrons of the EXPONENT:
	"While in American Fork on Thursday
last we met E. W. Tullidge, Esq., author
of 'The Life, of Brigham Young' and 'The
Women of Mormondom.' He is traveling
through Utah County for the purpose of
advancing the sale of the last named work,
a great number of copies of which he has
with him.
	"Considerable has been said of the 'Wo-
men of Mormondom,' but until now the
people of this county have had no opportu-
nity to form a correct or just estimate of its
merits. Mr. Tullidge is a gentleman who,
from long years of experience and observa-
tion, is capable of representing to the world
the facts relating to the history and social
life of the Mormons. He is not only thor-
oughly conversant with the subjects he has
written upon, but is one of the most gifted
literary men of America. In Utah he is
admitted to be so, and were it not for his
well known Mormon associations and predi-
lections we have no doubt his genius would
be more generally acknowledged.
"The 'Women of Mormondom' is verit-
ably a woman's book. It represents that
class of human beings so universally pitied,
maligned and scorned—the Mormon women;
we say pitied, because their social relation-
ship to the Mormon work not being under-
stood or appreciated, has been viewed by
some as the result of fanatical teachings, or
the exercise over their minds of undue in-
fluences, and for those imaginary reasons
the women of Mormondom have been made
the objects of pity rather than of condem-
nation. While appreciating this charitable
view of their condition, however, the wo-
men of Utah, through Mr. Tullidge, have
undertaken to place themselves in a proper
light before the world. They are voluntary
disciples of Mormonism and esteem their
relationship thereto as wives, mothers and
saints, above all else on earth. This is 
their position, and they do not wish the
world to be misled in regard to it.
	"The book has been published by the wo-
men of Utah, and, besides the moral good
it will accomplish, it is likely to prove a
pecuniary advantage to the Relief and Re-
trenchment Societies, as a considerable por-
tion of the means derived from its sale is
to be applied for the benefit of those organ-
izations.


CORRESPONDENCE.

		ST. GEORGE, DEC. 16, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having read a number of Reports from
our sisters in the Territory in regard to
storing grain, and fully realizing that in
Dixie Land we can do but little in that line,
this not being a grain country--we cannot
raise enough to eat, and much time and 
strength is consumed by our brethren in
going north for our supplies—and fearing
that we as a people may not be fully under-
stood, and be considered as drones in the
great beehive, I beg to say, in behalf of my
dear sisters in St. George, that we are a
very Industrious people, faithful workers
in our Father’s cause.
	I think if the many readers of the EX-
PONENT could imagine the daily labors of
many of our sisters in St. George, they
would be quite astonished.  Our Temple
requires constant labor, [-]ime and talent,


that is most willingly given. The great
amount of washing and ironing, and the
time devoted to the work in the Temple is
immense; and all this labor is done cheer-
fully by the sisters of the Relief Societies.
When I reflect on the amount of labor that
is accomplished, day after day, by the faith-
ful sisters, I cannot help asking the bless-
ing of our Father and His servants to be
upon us as a people. In this Southern land
we cannot store grain (many can hardly ob-
tain enough to eat), but we labor faithfully,
and trust in our Heavenly Eather for our
reward.
	I pray God to bless all who are willing to
do their part, in every department of work
for the good of this people.
		Your Sister,			L. S. C.


[Column 1]
	FACTS AND FIGURES.

	THE GREATEST CITY IN THE WORLD.—
London is the greatest city the world has
ever seen.  It is the heart of the British
empire and the world.  It covers within
the 15 miles radius of Charring Cross, near-
ly 700 square miles.  It numbers within
these boundaries 4,000,000 of inhabitants.
It comprises 100,000 foreigners from every
quarter of the globe.  It contains more Ro-
man Catholics than Rome itself; more Jews
than the whole of Palestine; more Irish
than Dublin; more Scotchmen than Edin-
burgh; more Welshmen than Cardiff; more
countryborn persons than the counties of
Devon, Warwickshire and Durham com-
bined.  Has a birth in it every five min-
utes; has a death in it every eight minutes;
has seven accidents every day in its 7,000
miles of streets; has on an average 28 miles
of new streets opened, and 9,000 new
houses built every year; has 123 persons
every day, and 45,000 annually added to
its population; has 1,000 ships and 9,000
sailors in its support every day:  Has 117,
000 habitual criminals on its police register,
increasing at an average of 3,000 per an-
num.  Has more than one third of all the
crime in the country committed in it; has
23,000 persons living in its common lodg-
ing houses; has as many beer shops and gin
palaces as would, if placed side by side,
stretch from Charring Cross to Portsmouth a
a distance of 73 miles; has 38,000 drunkards
annually brought before its magistrates; has
as many paupers as would more than occupy
every house in Brighton; has upwards of
1,000,000 of habitual neglectors of public
worship; has 60 miles of open shops every
Lord's day; has need of 900 new churches
and chapels, and 200 additional city mis-
sionaries; has an influence with all parts of
the world, represented by a yearly delivery
in its postal districts of 280,000,000 of let-
ters.  London has 150 railway stations.
Seven hundred trains pass Clapham every
day.  The London omnibus company have
563 omnibuses, which carry 50,000,000 pas-
sengers annually.  It is more dangerous to
walk the streets of London than to trav-
el by railway or to cross the Atlantic.  Last
year 125 persons were killed in the streets.
There are in London 10,000 police and 10,
000 cabmen, 10,000 persons connected with
the postoffice.  The cost of gas for light is
annually £2,500,000. London has 314 daily
and weekly newspapers.  In the year 1875
there were 573 fires.  This ancient and fa-
mous city of London was first founded by
Brute the Trojan in the year of the world
2,832, and before the nativity of Christ 1,
130, so that since the first building it is 3,
007 years old.

[Column 2]
	From the "Evening Star (Washington, D.
C.) Nov. 12, 1877.  The Committee on Priv-
ileges and Elections suspended their inves-
tigation of the Kellogg case on Saturday to
receive a message and request from the Na-
tional Woman Suffrage Association, through
the chairman of the resident congressional
committee, Mrs. Sara J. A. Spencer.  Mrs.
Spencer said:  "You have before you eleven
petitions from different sections of the
country, asking that women citizens be re-
lieved from political disabilities, or from
the burdens of taxation.  At the last ses-
sion you had before you petitions from ten
thousand United States citizens, asking for
a constitutional amendment protecting the
rights of women citizens.  I hold petitions
of a similar character from fifteen States,
and am assured by correspondents that peti-
tions of this kind are in circulation in 15,
000 post office towns in every state in the
Union. I came to ask that this committee
will appoint a time to hear one woman from
every State in behalf of the petitioners
from her own section."
	Thirty-six States?" asked Judge Hoar,
smiling.  "Thirty-six States," said Mrs.
Spencer, "and the Territories."  The chair-
man assured Mrs. Spencer that the com-
mittee would take her request into careful
consideration, and would report to her in
writing.  The hearing must be after the
present cases are disposed of.
	From the "Evening Star," Nov. 20: Mr.
Wadleigh, chairman of the committee on
Privileges and Elections, upon calling the
committee to order this morning requested
them to proceed immediately to the consid-
eration of the request of the National Wo-
man Suffrage Association for a hearing in
behalf of a sixteenth amendment for the
protection of the rights of women citizens.
After hearing Mrs. Spencer state the re-
quest definitely, upon motion of Judge
Hoar, the committe unanimously voted to
grant the hearing at 10. 30 a. m. January
9, 1878.


ECONOMY.

	Perhaps there is no word in the English
language that has been so foolishly nar-
rowed in its meaning as the word economy.
Most people think of it as saving of money,
as though to be economical was, in a cer-
tain sense, to be stingy or mean. Now,
economy in its true interpretation is the
art of management—is the wise adaptation
by which we arrange time, health and
strength so as to produce the best results.
It is human labor and opportunity wisely
and well applied; not a mere saving or
hoarding, but rather a wise investment and
expenditure of what we have. The young
man who saves the same amount of money
which his friend, who has equivalent means,
spends in attending a French or German
class, or in learning the rudiments of science,
is in no sense economical. The day will
come when knowledge of French or Ger-
man will be of far more value to him than
all the money he saved up by not paying
for the learning of these languages. He
will lose a higher appointment, into which
his more cultured friend will st[-]p, and will
be obliged to drone on in the position he at
first occupied, because he is not fitted for a
better. Time and opportunity are now
gone forever, and were wasted while he
saved his little hoard of silver or of gold.


THE science of life may be thus epito-
mised—to know well the price of time, the
value of things, and the worth of people.


120		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	WILL MRS. Haitland please call at the of-
fice of WOMAN'S EXPONENT?

	WE HAVE received from R. Mathews &
Co. Prof. Barfoot's Balsam of Indian Root,
[Peah-Nat-Suah.] If we find it as valuable
a remedy as we anticipate, we shall take
pleasure in recommending it to the public
in our columns hereafter.

	WE DESIRE to call the attention of our
patrons to the advertisement of Bro. B. F.
Cummings, published in this issue. The
Latter-day Saints should be earnest, and en-
ergetic in looking up genealogies, and this
is an excellent opportunity for New Eng-
land people. There is a vast labor connect-
ed with the work for the dead, and the
time is hastening. Procrastination on this
subject may be a grevious sin.


FLOWERS.

	THERE is a gift that is almost a blow, and
there is a kind word that is munificence;
so much is there in the way of doing
things.

	A SAD thing is the life that gives itself
up to dreams and calls weakness strength—
as if the misty purposelessness that too of-
ten mars genius were itself genius!

	MAN can never come up to his ideal
standard; it is the nature of the immortal
spirit to raise that standard higher and
higher, and as it goes from strength to
strength still upward or onward. Accord-
ingly the wisest and greatest men are ever
the most modest.

	"THERE is nothing," says Plato, "so de-
lightful as the hearing and speaking of
truth." For this reason there is no conver-
sation so agreeable as that of a man of in-
tegrity, who hears without any intention to
betray, and speaks without any intention
to deceive.

	No great work of imagination was ever
performed by a merely imaginative mind.
Men do not dream immortal poems and pic-
tures. Common sense must be kept in
view, for it will lend imagination greater
strength than it could possibly have unaid-
ed, all the more because it will check its
exhausting itself in fruitless vagaries.

	NATURE has written upon the flowers
that sweeten the air, upon the breeze that
rocks the flower upon its stem, upon the
rain-drops that swell the mighty river, up-
on the dew-drops that refresh the smallest
sprig of moss that rears its head in the des-
ert, upon the ocean that rocks every ship
upon its breast, upon every penciled shell
that sleeps in the caverns of the deep, as
well as upon the mighty sun that warms
and cheers the millions of creatures that
live in its light—upon all is written—"None
of us liveth to himself."

	A GENTLEMAN coming into the room of
the late Dr. Barton, told him that Mr. Vow-
el was dead. "What!" said he, Vowel
dead! Let us be thankful that it was
neither u nor i."


[Column 1]
GENEALOGICAL
LATTER-DAY SAINTS who come from the states o
New England, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania
or Delaware, or whose ancestors were natives of either
of those states, who desire to obtain their Genealogies,
could not do better than to e ploy B. F. Cummings. Jr.,
who proposes to go east for that [-]urpose during the 
p esent Winter.  Parties interested should send for Cir-
cular giving terms and full instructions.
	Address,
	B. F. CUMMINGS, JR...
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

[Column 2]
FRENCH HAIR STORE

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
	JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City. 97 Kimball Block.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency
[Drawing of knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings corner.  Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
	GEO. A. LUKE & CO.,
	Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods, Etc., Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of 
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE 
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING,
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yar[-]s, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descr[-]ptions
	MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S 
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH 
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
AT
TEASDEL'S.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY,
FOR ALL KINDS OF 
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
	MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND RESIDENCE in 12th Ward on
2d South St., between 5th and 6th East Sts.,
six blocks East of Post Office.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kind of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.
	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
DRY GOODS,
IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY.
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

