	THE UTAH "Musical Times No. 11, Vol. 2, is
an excellent copy. It contains notes of inter-
est on the subject of musical composition, style,
etc, as well as items regarding composers of all
countries. If these periodicals are kept and
bound in volumes they will make a valuable
addition to home literature.

	LECTURES DELIVERED under the auspices
of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement As-
sociation are awakening considerable interest
among the young men. The lecture of Elder
Moses Thatcher published in the "Deseret
News" of Feb. 9th, contains many excellent
ideas, and couched in language simple yet elo-
quent. The lecture is well worth studying as
well as casually reading. But reading a lec-
ture is not as impressive, howover carefully it
may be read as hearing it delivered by a per-
son who feels himself what he speaks, and
throws into his subject the force of his re-


marks. The voice, the manner, the presence
all serve to enhance the value of the opinions
or views expressed.
	ELDER DANIEL Graves has been traveling
and lecturing in the interests of sericulture in
the northern settlements. Elder G. informs
us that he has delivered thirteen lectures dur-
ing his tour. In most places he had very large
audiences and in all there seemed to be a re-
newal of interest on the subjeet of silk culture.
In Centreville they have a ribbon loom, and
have excellent warp, and are waiting for suita-
ble filling. Elder G. is engaged in a good
cause, and one that should be encouraged by
those who are looking to the future interests of
the community. Elder G. states that according
to the statistics on silk importation that in two
ports only, New York and San Francisco, over
$28,000,000 were expended for raw silk in the
year 1875. The subject of sericulture is now
under discussion throughout the Territory, and
there will be multitudes of trees put out this
year.
	THE TELEPHONE:—On Thursday afternoon,
through the courtesy of Elder A. M. Musser,
we had the privilege of witnessing the trial of
that recent invention, for transmitting sound,
the Telephone. It is seemingly of very simple
construction. The connection was from the
office of President Taylor to that of Bishop
Hunter, nearly a block, and the sounds were
heard perfectly when all was quiet. The mus-
ic performing at either end of the line could
be clearly heard at the opposite end, different
voices and different instruments being dis-
tinguishable. The transmssion of the sound
makes the music still more melodious and con-
veys to the mind the idea of music heard in
dreams, sweet and low. We were permitted
to ask one question and the answer was as dis-
tinct as though the person had stood by our
side. The Telephone will, no doubt be made a
means of saving time and labor; people can
transact business without leaving home, and
carry on conversations with persons in other
places without the trouble of writing letters or
sending telegrams even. This means of con-
veying sound is but in its first stages of de-
velopment, and no doubt will be made practi-
cable in many ways and for many purposes
not now apparent.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		141


R. S. REPORT.

	SNOWVILLE, BOX ELDER CO., Jan. 15, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Snowville is a new settlement, situated in a
large and beautiful valley on the north of the
Great Salt Lake with good facilities for a large
town.
	On Jan. 10, our respected Bishop organized a
Relief Society, when the following officers
were unanimously elected; Mrs. Mary Good-
liffe, President; Ellen Robbins and Mary Ann
Osterhout, Counselors; Esther Goodliffe, Secre-
tary and Mary Patter, Treasurer. Six Teach-
ers were also appointed. The meeting was re-
plete with good instructions and a good spirit
was manifested. The brethren present gave
us good teachings, and the sisters expressed a
thankfulness that we conld now meet together
in the capacity of a Relief Society, to enjoy
the blessings to be derived therefrom, as we,
one and all, know it is our duty to do all we
can in the great cause of truth.
	Ever wishing the success of the EXPONENT
and your happiness, we remain your sisters.
			ESTHER GOODLIFFE, Sec'y.


[Column 1]
DISCOURSE
BY
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG
DELIVERED
In the Tabernacle, Ogden.

[CONCLUDED.]

	If you have not the mulberry trees—I have
proffered for years to give the trees and if you
want a thousand you are welcome to them, or
a million, I am ready to give them to you.
Some twenty years ago I sent for mulberry
seed. I have raised thonsands and tens of
thousands of trees, and they are in this Terri-
tory. I have a large cocoonery that I built
twelve or fourteen years ago. I have given the
use of that—a building about 20 x 110 feet, and
I have given the use of the mulberry trees, and
given the people all the trees they want. They
are a beautiful shade tree and the fruit is good.

[Column 2]
A great many people are fond of the fruit; it
is healthy for children.
	When you feel disposed to make a little
money, go into the raising of silk, which is one
of the easiest branches of business that was
ever followed. There is no other work the
women can do that will yield the same amount
of profit. This is a matter that I wish you to
hearken to. Will you bless yourselves, and do
good to yourselves? We have plenty of weav-
ers who can take the silk and know how to
manufacture it: and they will give you all you
could reasonably ask for it.
	Now let the beauty of your adorning be the
work of your own hands. Will you not, Pres-
idents, ask your Societies to enter into this
agreement, and go to work and make what
you want to wear. Then we will appeal to the
brethren and say, "come, let us wear the head-
dresses that our wives and our sisters can
make; and it would be very healthy for the
men to wear straw hats winter and summer.
We would not see so many bald heads as we
now see around here. Straw hats are perfectly
healthy to wear. I have worn them through
winter; and the only objection I have to them
is that they are a little too tight and close.
Let the sisters go to work and make these
things.
	Now, sisters, I plead with you to stop these
fashions. They are nonsense. Bro. Carring-
ton has given you a fine detail of them. They
are miserable looking. I dare not tell you
how they look to me, and how the vanity looks
that is in the minds of the people. How long
is it since my family said to me of hoops,
"They are so nice and comely; how would we
look were we to take these hoops off? why we
would look like the town pump. Would you
not be ashamed of us?" I am ashamed. I am
ashamed to see the tight clothes—to see the
shape of the ladies. How long is it since the
sleeves were so loose, that when you go into
into a store and the gentleman says, "are you
not going to buy a pair of sleeves?" "O, if I
buy a pair of sleeves I shall have to have a
new dress."  "O, I will give you a dress."
Eighteen yards in the sleeves, and three yards
in the dress! These foolish fashions what good
do they do? I have asked my sisters what
they would think if a lady who lives in heaven
should pay them a visit. Would she come
with these large sleeves on—a mu[-]ton leg
sleeve, with her dress pulled right out in front
of her? Now, it is pulled out here. It is very
unwise. It is nonsense and uncomely. It is
the best looking of anything in the world
when Brother Carrington sees his wife in her
new calico dress. "You look just as you did
when I courted you." Now there is another
fashion. You see a girl with her hair clipped
off in front of her head; she looks as though
she had just come out of a lunatic asylum.
The hair is for an ornament. You can love a
woman with a comely dress on of her own
make, just as well as though she had on a dress
that cost five thousand pounds.
	We do not seem to realize that we have to
give an account of the days we spend in folly,
and that we will be found wanting if we spend
our time foolishly. When you come to the
wheat and the fine flour, to the gold and the
silver and the prescious stones, the Lord owns
them. But what have we? Our time. Spend
it as you will. Time is given to you; and when
this is spent to the best possible advantage for
promoting truth upon the earth, it is placed to
your account, and blessed are you; but when
we spend our time in idleness and folly, it will
be placed against us. Here is the difference.
	Now, Sisters, take hold; do this that we ask
you to do. It is for your own benefit, and


health, and life, and comfort of the people,
and the building up of Zion. And let us go
to, and establish the Zion of God upon the
earth, that we may be prepared to enjoy it,
which I most earnestly pray for every day, in
the name of Jesus. Amen.


OBITUARIES.

	It becomes our painful duty to record the
death of another of our beloved sisters, Isa-
bella Layton, wife of Christopher Layton,
Kaysville, and daughter of Richard and Isa-
bella Golightly of Salt Lake City, both now
deceased. She departed this life on Saturday,
December 15, 1877. She died as she had lived
a true Latter-day Saint, full of faith in the
holy priesthood and in the order of Celestial
Marriage which she embraced in her youth, in
the year 1854, at the age of eighteen. Al-
though her path has not always been strewn
with flowers, she has like a rock in the ocean
been immovable. True to her Father in heav-
en, true to her children, true to her husband,
and to her religion, to her last moments. She
has left seven children, four sons and three
daughters. Lightly as the order of Plural
Marriage may be treated by some, it gives to
those who comprehend it joy and consolation
to see one who has borne the heat and burden
of the day for twenty-three years, pass away
so beautifully as our sister did. Her sufferings
were great for a long time. She was afflicted
with dropsy of which she died; yet her faith in
the Gospel never faltered. Many times during
her affliction she would say, how thankful she
was that her lot was cast among the Saints of
God; and that she had raised her children
where they could be cared for, and taught the


principles of our holy religion. Sisters, such
examples should encourage us to press on to
the end of our journey, for be assured that
there is eternal life for us, if we will live faith-
ful and true to our covenants. Deceased was
a Teacher in the Relief Society of Kaysville
which office she filled cheerfully as long as she
was able. She was kind and true to all her
many friends and acquaintances. She was
born in Newcastle upon Tyne, Northumber-
landshire, England, Sept. 6th. 1836, and emi-
grated to Utah in 1853. May it be our happy
lot to endure to the end as our sister has done,
is the prayer of your sister in the Gospel,
						SARAH LAYTON.
	Kaysville, Feb. 7th, 1878.

	DIED AT North Ogden, Weber Co., Utah, on
Sunday, Jan. 27th, 1877, of child-bed fever,
Eva Elizabeth Clark, beloved wife of Charles
Clark, and daughter of Abraham and Mary
Chadwick, aged twenty-one years, three
months and four days. Deceased has ever
been a faithful member of the church, and
held the office of president of the Young La-
dies' Retrenchment Society in North Ogden
from its organization, March, 24th, 1875, until
within a recent date of her death. Her con-
duct was always of that exemplary character
which denotes the true Christian; she leaves a
husband and young babe to mourn her loss,
who are sympathized with by a large circle of
friends.
		 	MARION WHEELOCK, Pres. R. S.
	Eeb., 9th, 1878.


142		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			A TRUE LADY.

	While passing along down the stream of
time and going through mixed multitudes
of people among the Latter-day saints as
well as the rest of the human family; we
are shocked many times at the appearance
of some ladies (so considered) who stand in
responsible places; we stop and reflect and
ask ourselves the question, what does it
take to constitute a true lady? Beauty and
style are not the surest passports to re-
spectability. I think some of the noblest
specimens of womanhood that the world
has ever seen, have presented the plainest,
and most unprepossessing appearance. A
woman's worth is to be estimated by the
real goodness of her heart, the greatness of
her soul, and the purity and sweetness of
her character; and a woman with a kindly
disposition and a well-balanced mind and
temper is lovely and attractive; be her face
ever so plain, and her figure ever so homely,
she makes the best of wives and the truest
of mothers. She has a higher purpose in
living than the beautiful yet vain, and su-
percilious woman, who has no higher am-
bition than to flaunt her finery on the
streets, or to gratify her inordinate vanity
by extracting flattery and praise, from a so-
ciety whose compliments are as hollow as
they are insincere. I consider a true lady
must be genteel in her manner, at the same
time courteous and obliging, and remember
that true politeness consists in treating oth-
ers just as you wish to be treated yourself.
Those who always act upon this principle,
will prove pleasant companions, will always
have pleasing and agreeable ways; nature
is always graceful, while affectation with
all the art she may employ, can never pro-
duce anything half so charming. The idea
should be ever present to the mind of the
young lady, it is the duty of every woman
to cultivate those attractive graces so beau-
tiful in the sex; but the charm is lost un-
less they strive to awaken all the energies
of the mind, and put them to their proper
use; in this way a lady may do a vast
amount of good, which will render greater
attractions than any personal charm, and
transmit to her name greater honor than if
she inherited her tens of thousands yearly.
	The glitter of wealth and fashion are as
but a flare of light that attracts the eye as
it passes by, while the influence of a noble-
hearted woman will extend far beyond her
earthly life, living in the hearts of those
who were conscious of her good works.
	When friends call upon a true lady she
will treat them with great politeness, what-
ever the existing circumstances may be
she will make them welcome. How cheer-
ing it is to a travaler weary and far from
home to receive cordial hospitality at the
house of a friend. The true lady will ex-
tend kindness to her family circle, where
her influence will effect most beneficially
in giving tone to the home, and the dar-
ling little ones will partake of it; her pleas-
ant ways will shine "like a light that is set
upon a table that giveth light to all that are
in the room. The many great and noble
qualities that belong to a true lady who is a
firm believer in the Gospel, and also in the
good results therefrom are too numerous to
mention. When I behold a lady possessing
these principles so noble to me, she looks

[Column 2]
more like an angel than mortal. When I
was in the temple, I looked and wondered
if the angels looked even more charming
than those ladies who officiate there, they
are so genteel, so courteous and kind in
their manner and appearance, so motherly
and sisterly to all.			D. F. COX.
	BEAVER, Jan. 28, 1878.


[Column 1]
PEN PICTURES.

BY DORA DARMOORE.

No. 9.

MADAME KUT-A-DASHE.

	It was at the opera I saw her. The first
act of "Don Giovanni" was nearly through
when she came sweeping in, with that ob-
sequious usher (who is always so polite to
well dressed people who have reserved
seats, and so curt to those unfortunates who
have none) clearing the way before her to
her place in the dress-circle, and her equally
obsequious husband bringing up the rear
and bearing her ladyship's opera-cloak, bou-
quet, fan and lorgnette.
	In reaching her seat she of course has to
pass before several scores of people who
have come to the opera to hear the music,
and whom

MADAME KUT-A-DASHE'S ENTREE

caused to lose one of Signorina Flute voice's
most charming "arias," and numberless
bright eyes shot forth sparks of indignation
as their owners' handsome toilettes were
ruthlessly trodden upon while Madame
Kut-a-dashe and her escorts crowded past,
quite oblivious of the trouble and annoy-
ance she was causing. Indeed, she had all
the airs of

"One who treads alone
Some banquet-hall deserted,"

and was evidently disgusted to find that
there were others in the immediate vicin-
ity. At last she reached her seat, which
was in the most conspicuous portion of the 
house, and with the air of a hen settling
herself upon her first nest-full of eggs—
ruffling her feathers, and spreading her
wings over as much space as possible—did
Madame Kut-a-dashe spread her draperies
about her, apparently quite unconscious of
the hundred opera-glasses that were in-
stantly leveled at her, mostly, I am con-
strained to confess, in the hands of ladies
anxious to see what she wore. With the
greatest nonchalance she proceeded to draw
on

HER JEWELED HANDS

the delicate lavender kids which her obe-
dient husband at a nod handed her. This
office is usually performed in the dressing-
room before entering the opera, but she
doubtless reasoned that in that case the
public would lose the opportunity of be-
holding the beauty of her bracelets, which
could be displayed to great advantage while
her husband was engaged in buttoning the
gloves over the white wrists.
	As a faithful delineator I must state that
Madame Kut-a-dashe's beauty lies entirely
in her wardrobe. Her face is pale and her
eyes sunken from the effects of late hours,
dissipation, rich viands and fashionable
dressing. Her hair is red, and was, of
course, arranged in the latest and, to such
a face as hers, most unbecoming style. On
the topmost point of the pyramid of hair
was perched an affair of velvet and flowers,
which Madame De Fuss, the milliner, calls
a bonnet, but which much more resembles
the mortars used for compounding drugs in

[Column 2]
apothecary shops. Near the northwest cor-
ner of her mouth, which by the way was
not particularly small, nor bore the least
resemblance to the traditional Cupid's bow,
was a small, black, oblong patch, placed
there heaven knows for what purpose, un-
less it was to call attention to

THE CONTEMPTUOUS SNEER

that perpetually sat upon her lips, as if she
were mentally contrasting her own enviable
position, wealth and faultless toilet with
that of the "vulgar herd" who surrounded
her.
	And yet she was not happy. One could
see that in every uneasy movement of her
restless eyes, in the irritable shrugging of
her velvet covered shoulders; in the frown
that made her sallow face still more unat-
tractive. What was needed to add to her
contentment? The idols that she wor-
shipped were at her service. The silken
dress heavily embossed with velvet, the
massive chain with its gem-studded locket;
the gleaming diamonds in her ears, on her
breast and fingers; the costly furs; these
were her idols, at whose shrine she daily
and hourly worshipped, and they were all
hers. Where, then, is

THE SECRET OF HER DISCONTENT!

	It is this: she has only the external em-
blems of happiness. Of the only true con-
tentment that makes a life in the humble
cottage, with garments of the plainest ma-
terial, peaceful and happy, she was utterly
ignorant. Her only idea of happiness is
embodied in fine houses, costly equipages,
elegant furniture and magnificent toilets,
whose splendor shall throw every assem-
blage which she enters into a fever ef ex-
citement, astonishment and envy. As she
is not always successful in producing the
required amount of the latter article, it
follows that she is often unhappy.
	There are, I am sorry to say, many Mad-
ame Kut-a-dashes in the world, and their
pernicious example has a grievous influence
on the minds and hearts of numbers of the 
"coming women." For the sake of the
peace and contentment, as well as the truth,
modesty, and good sense of these "future
mothers of the race," I pray that their
tribe may "grow smaller by degr[-]es and
beautifully less," until not one specimen is
left as a libel on true womanhood.—Mis-
sion Mirror.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

			CLIFTON, Feb. 5, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is with a feeling of thankfulness to
God for the blessings and privileges we
enjoy I write, feeling I must give expres-
sion, through your valuable paper, to the
sentiments of my heart. I realize my in-
ability to write my thoughts properly, ex-
cept by the Spirit of God. I do feel thank-
ful for the good instruction the EXPONENT
contains, and grateful to God for the intelli-
gent women in our midst, who are not
afraid to stand up for woman's rights, and
speak in her defense. I feel interested in
woman having all the rights that belong to
her. Why should she not have the privi-
lege to expand the intelligence that God
has given her, in something more than
household duties and dress? Why should
she not have the privilege of voting for the
officers that govern her, as well as her sons
and husband? I feel to say God bless the
noble women who are laboring for the rights
of woman! Why did God give her intel-
lect equal to man's, if she must not use it


for the welfare of her fellow-beings, and to
promote good in a broader sphere than
housewifery affords?  I think she ought to
have all the rights and blessings she is ca-
pacitated to enjoy and honor, that she may
be better qualified to bring up her sons to
make wise and useful men in the land; and
to teach her daughtersaright that they may
be the wise mothers of a future generation,
that we may keep increasing in intelligence,
until we become a noble people, zealous of
good works, and full of wisdom and under-
standing: this is just what the Lord wants
His people to be.  Ever praying for the
prosperity of all good works, and all who
labor in building up Zion.	ELIZA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


DEATH IN THE DISHCLOTH.

	A lady says, in the "Rural World," that
during the sickly months, when some of
you are sure to be down with the typhoid
fever, when neighbors are neglecting their
own work to nurse you, when doctors are
hunting in cellars and old drains for the
cause, let me whisper in your ear, Look to
your dishcloths.  If they be black and stiff,
and smell like a "bone-yard," it is enough
—throw them in the fire, and from hence-
forth and forever wash your dishes with
cloths that are white, cloths that you can
see through, and see if you ever have the
disease again.  There are sometimes other
causes, but I have smelled a whole houseful
of typhoid fever in one "dishrag." I had
some neighbors once—clever, good sort of
folk; one Fall four of them were sick at one
time with typhoid fever.  The doctors or-
dered the vinegar barrels whitewashed,
and threw about forty cents' worth of car-
bolic acid in the swill-pail, and departed.
I went into the kitchen to make gruel; I
needed a dishcloth and looked about and
found several, and such "rags!"  I burned
them all, and called the daughter of the
house to get me a dishcloth.  She looked
round on the tables.  "Why," said she,
"there was about a dozen here this morn-
ing;" and she looked in the woodbox and
on the mantelpiece, and felt in the dark
corner of the cupboard.  "Well," I said, "I
saw some old, black, rotten rags lying
round and I burned them, for there is death
in such dishcloths as those, and you must
never use such again."  I "took turns,"
nursing that family four weeks, and I be-
lieve those dirty dishcloths were the cause
of all that hard work.  Therefore I say to
every housekeeper, keep your dishcloths
clean.  You may wear your dresses with-
out ironing, your sunbonnets without elas-
tics—but you must keep your dishcloths
clean.  You may only comb your hair on
Sundays, you need not wear a collar unless
you go from home—but you must wash
your dishcloth.  You may only sweep the
floor "when the sign gets right;" the win-
dows don't need washing, you can look out
at the door; that spider's web on the front
porch don't hurt anything—but, as you love
your lives, wash out your dishcloth.  Let
the foxtail get ripe in the garden (the seed
is a foot deep any way), let the holes in the
heels of your husband's foot rags go un-
darned, let the sage go ungathered, let the
children's shoes go two Sundays without
blacking, let two hens sit four weeks on
one wooden egg—but do wash your dish-
cloths.  Eat without a table-cloth, wash
your faces and let them dry, do without a
curtain for your windows, and cake for your
tea, but, for heaven's sake, keep your dish-
cloths clean.


[Column 1]
	THE BIBLE AND ITS TEACHINGS.
	SERMON BY REV. DR. A. HUEB[-]CH AT
	THE TEMPLE AHAWATH CHESED.

	The Rev. Dr. Huebsch preached a ser-
mon on the above subject at the Jewish tem-
ple Ahawatch Chesed, Lexington avenue,
not long since. His text was taken from
Genesis, ii.—"This is the book of the gen-
erations of Adam. On the day that God
created man, in the likeness of God made
He him."
	The great Roman orator, said the Doctor,
has pronounced it that books had their fate.
Some are still born, some live for a short
period and then expire; the very few that
survive in the length of time become slaves;
chained to the shelves of the antiquarian
they cease to be fields on which life reaps
its harvest of wisdom and change into the
secluded hunting ground, where the liter-
ary chaser hunts after the rare game of an-
tique oddities. One book makes an excep-
tion. Its glorious destiny was sealed by
its first appearance and in spite of rolling
time and its destructive power this book,
with never abating strength, serves its des-
tination. If there be no other proof of the
divine origin of the Bible its perpetual
youth, its never slacking use and usefulness,
speak sufficiently of its superiority over all
human wisdom. It is the book for all times
and all men; it teaches the king justice and
humility, and infuses trust and dignity in-
to the beggar; it shows to the learned the
boundaries where human wisdom ends, and
brings the dawning spirit of the child to
the gates where human wisdom begins; it
advises the joyful to enhance and purify
his joys, and informs mercifully the aching
and breaking heart how to alleviate sorrow
and mourning. It raises the finger of warn-
ing toward the youth not to trust in the
abundance of strength, and at the same
time lends the fortifying staff to the weary
wanderer for his last steps through the
dark valley of death. It speaks to nations
and to individuals, to all humanity and to
every single member of human kind. It
promulgates the highest principles of poli-
tics, and imparts the modest rules for the
humble household; it embraces man in all
dimensions, earth in all climates, time in all
changes, and eternity in all its glory. One
would think that to cover such an immense
range of instruction a system must be ap-
plied which is complicated and and difficult
to be comprehended. It is not so. The
whole book is based on one cardinal point,
from which all the streams of light break
forth with such abundance, strength and
intensity as to penetrate into all circles and
classes of humanity's life.
	The fountainhead of all human morality
is concentrated in the one truth: on the day
that God created man "in the likeness of
God made he him!" From this relation of
man to God issues the infallible arrange-
ment of all relations between man and
man; moral affinity and moral associations
—this is the Alpha and Omega of the Scrip-
tural system. The faultiness of human life
is the sad consequence of swerving from
this system.
	The Doctor reviewed the various branch-
es of human activity, and how they are and
how they ought to be. He spoke about the
amount of genius, physical strength and
the money which is wasted in Europe at 
this moment to destroy man and his pros-
perity. If the same means were applied to
further the welfare of mankind, would we
not progress further in one decade than we
do in centuries? The great book proclaims
love—love founded on moral aff[-]inity—and,

[Column 2]
therefore, it will always remain sound and
vigorous in its teaching; and the regenera-
tion of humankind will take place, when
the Divine Book will be the respected and
obeyed moral adviser of all the children of
Adam.


R. S. REPORT.

	KANAB, Jan. 25, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	In Nov. 1873 the sisters of Kanab Ward
were called together by Bishop Levi Stu-
art, and a Relief Society was organized
with Sister Sarah Crosby as President.  Ow-
ing to the ill-health and many cares of the
President and some of the other officers
they gave in their resignations, which were
accepted.  Dec. 15, 1877, the sisters of the
ward met under the direction of President
James L. Bunting, and Bishop W. D. John-
son, jun., and were reorganized with Mrs.
Harriet Bunting as president, Mrs. Arte-
macy Stewart, and Mrs. Lucy A. Johnson
as counselors; Mrs. M. Elizabeth Little Sec-
retary, Miss Lovinia Johnson, Assistant
Secretary, and Mrs. Elizabeth Solomon,
Treasurer. 
	Bishop W. D. Johnson jun., at the same
meeting organized a Young Ladies Mutual
Improvement Association, with Mrs. So-
phia T. Nuttal, President, Mrs. Sarah L.
Mariger and Miss Elizabeth A. Nuttal'as
Counselors, Miss M. M. Farnsworth Secre-
tary, and Miss E. Cram as Treasurer.
	The brethren gave excellent counsel con-
cerning the duties and priviliges of Relief
Societies, and exhorted the sisters to seek
after the spirit of the Lord, that they may
be fitted for the great work before them.
	With the help of the Lord we intend to
make the future a success.  The EXPONENT
is taken by several of the sisters, and is
read with interest.  In future we will try 
to be known among the sisters of Zion in
that excellent paper.
	The people of Kanab feel that the passing
year will be to them a new era.  We hope
the time is not distant when the saying of
the late President Brigham Young, will be
realized, “that Kanab shall be a prosperous
and beautiful city.”
	M. ELIZABETH LITTLE, Sec’y.


WHY SOME PEOPLE ARE POOR.

	Silver spoons are used to scrape kettles.
	Coffee, tea, pepper and spice, are left to
stand open and lose their strength.
	Potatoes in the cellar grow, and sprouts
are not removed until the potatoes become
worthless.
	Brooms are never hung up and are soon 
spoiled.
	Nice handled knives are thown into hot
water.
	The flour is sifted in a wasteful manner,
and the bread-pan is left with the dough
sticking to it.
	Clothes are left on the line to whip to
pieces in the wind.
	Tubs and barrels are left in the sun to
dry and fall apart.
	Dried fruits are not taken care of in sea-
son and become wormy.
	Rags, strings, and paper are thrown into 
the fire.
	Pork spoils for want of salt, and beef be-
cause the brine wants scalding.
	Bits of meat, vegetables, bread, and cold
puddings are thrown away, when they 
might be warmed, steamed, and served as
good as new.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THE HEARING IN WASHINGTON.

	EDITORS JOURNAL.—Not having as yet
seen in your paper any account of the hear-
ing granted by the United States Senate
Committee on Privileges and Elections, to
the petitioners for a Sixteenth Amendment,
and as this was really the most important
feature of the recent effort in Washington,
I venture to send you some account of it.
	A striking characteristic of the late con-
vention was the large number of delegates
present from all parts of the country, most
of them women of ability and all of the
highest respectability. Representing, as
they did, such large sections of the Union,
the Committe, at considerable inconven-
ience to its members, granted two succes-
sive hearings.
	The Committee itself consisted of Sena-
tors Wadleigh, of New Hampshire, Mitch-
ell, of Oregon, Cameron, of Wisconsin,
McMillan, of Minnesota, Hoar, of Massa-
chusetts, Salisbury, of Delaware, and Hill,
of Georgia.
	On Friday, January 10, at 10.30 A. M,
they assembled in their committee room,
which was crowded with advocates of Wo-
man Suffrage.  Mrs. Clemence S. Lozier,
M. D., of New York, made the opening
address. She was followed by Miss Julia
Smith, of Connecticut, Mrs. Elizabeth Cady
Stanton, of New Jersey, Mrs. Matilda Jos-
lyn Gage, of New New York, Mrs. Mary A.
Stewart of Delaware, Mrs. Elizabeth Boyn-
ton Harbert, of Illinois, and Mrs. Priscilla
R. Lawrence, of Massachusetts.
	As a large number of delegates still re-
mained to be heard, by unanimous vote of
the Committee, a second hearing was grant-
ed on the following day, and in order to ac-
commodate the crowd that was anxious to
be present, this was held in the reception-room of the Senate, which was thronged to
overflowing.
	On this second day, Saturday, January
11, addresses were made by Rev. Olympia
Brown, of Connecticut, Mrs. Mary Powers
Filley, of New Hampshire, Dr. Mary
Thompson, of Oregon, Mrs. Lillie Deve-
reaux Blake, of New York, Mrs. Sara A.
Spencer, of the District of Columbia, and
Mrs. Isabella Beecher Hooker, of Connec-
ticut.
	At the conclusion of the hearing, Senator
Hoar presented a resolution declaring that
the arguments had been presented in a very
able and dignified manner; and the compli-
ment was well deserved, as each woman
had urged some local matter showing how
the women of her State suffered for the
want of the ballot, or presented one of the
great national arguments in its favor.
	A short hand reporter was employed by
the committee to take down all the speeches,
and the committee has since decided that
fifty thousand copies shall be printed, at
the expense of the Senate, a compliment
quite unprecedented.	L. D. B.
	New York.	—Woman's Journal.


AURELIA M. GILBERT, M. D., a graduate
of the Boston University medical depart-
ment, is located in Louisville, Ky., and is
establishing a practice there.


[Column 1]
GENEALOGICAL!
LATTER-DAY SAINTS who come from the States of
New England, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, 
or Delaware, or whose ancestors were native of either
of those States, who desire to obtain their Genealogies,
could not do better than to employ B. F. Cummings, Jr.,
who proposes to go east for that purpose during the
present Winter. Parties interested should send for Cir-
cular; giving terms and full instructions.
	Address,
	B. F. CUMMINGS, JR.,
	Salt Lake City, Utah

[Column 2]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
	JOSEPHINE GREGORY
	Salt Lake City.	97 Kimball Block.

THE LAMB KNITTING MACHINE AGENCY.
[Drawing of knitting machine.]
	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jeminns' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly. 
	CEO. A.	LUKE &	CO.,
	Proprietors.
	
NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies
Ties, Cuf and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
    Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys’ Clothing and Furnishing
Goods Etc., Etc.

THE LADIES
 Are invited to call and inspect the stock of 
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE 
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING.
	Where they can find all kinds of Wooden Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descriptions.
	MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.
NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

HOLIDAYS:
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries
AT
TEASDEL'S.

T[-]E LAMB KNITTING FACTORY,
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings:
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTII STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE AND RESIDENCE in 12th Ward on
2d South St., between 5th and 6thEast Sts.,
six blocks East of Post Office.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
[-]n all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS,

DAVID JAMES.
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the f[--]est in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from smalI pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in watercolors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are p[-]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to C. R. SAVAGE
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALLMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
	CALDER & CARELESS.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work, in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
DRY GOODS,
IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
