VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 1, 1877.	No. 3.


TREASURES.

I saw the miser counting greedily his gold.
His hands were shriveled—eye and heart were cold;
I saw him turn the poor man from his door,
With frown, nor give one penny from his store

I've seen in childhood's bright and fairy land,
Bright treasures gleam along the golden strand:
And heard the merry shout of children in their play,
Each seeking gems along the pleasant way.

I saw a maiden silent, thoughtful stand,
And gaze upon a jewel on her fair white hand,
And heard her murmur gently, soft and low—
"The pledge of all the joys my soul can know."

I saw a mother stand beside a cradle bed,
And gently smooth the ringlets on the pillow spread.
And heard her pray—"O bless my darling here"—
Earth holds no other treasure half so dear.

I looked again—she clasped a broken toy,
The plaything once of her departed boy;
As such more prized by far than golden store—
Those little hands now beckon'd from the other shore.

I've read the tale a tiny flower did hold;
The hopes and fears within a letter's fold;
Know all that clasp of hand in hand can tell,
And in the heart how words of love and kindness dwell.

No living soul but hath some treasure hid
From mortal eye beneath its casket lid;
Some deeply hid 'neath cold and sordid gain
And some 'neath waves of cruel bitter pain.

And yet how slight a thing will touch the spring,
And forth to light the hidden treasures bring—
A strain of music known in days long gone,
Or simple words of some remembered song.

O human heart what mystery is thine!
And who can judge thee but the "Power Divine?"
In that great day His eye will read aright,
The story hidden deep from mortal sight.

	HOPE.


[Column 1]

	THE WATCHMAN'S CRY.

	"BEHOLD THE BRIDEGROOM COMETH."

	"The kingdom of heaven is likened unto
ten virgins, who all had lamps and went out
to meet the bridegroom, and while the
bridegroom tarried they all slumbered and
slept, and at midnight a cry was heard,
"Behold the bridegroom cometh go ye out to
meet him," they all arose and trimmed their
lamps but the foolish had no oil, and they
said unto the wise give us of your oil, but
the wise refused, 'go and buy of them that
sell,' while they were gone the bridegroom
came and the doors were shut; afterwards
the foolish virgins came and knocked say-
ing master open to us, but the Savior said
"I know you not."
	There is another beautiful parable of the
Savior's recorded by St. Luke, connected
with the parable of the ten virgins, that
evidently has reference to the present day.
The Savior asks the question "When you
make a feast do you invite the poor, the
lame, the halt and the blind, or do you in-
vite the rich that you may receive recom-
pense?" the poor have not means to recom-
pense you, but if you invite the poor you
shall be rewarded in the resurrection of the
just. Now connect the testimony re-
corded by the Apostle Mathew xviii chapt.
"He will send his messengers with the
sound of a trump to gather His elect from
the four quarters of the earth." then He
shall come in power and great glory. Now
His messengers have been gathering His

[Column 2]elect for the last forty-six years and all na-
tions have been invited and all made ex-
cuses, and the Savior said unto His ser-
vants to tell those who have been invited, that
all is ready, to come quickly to the wedding
supper, but they prayed to be excused. The
servants returned and reported to the
master who was angry and said go straight
away into the highways and hedges and
compel them to come in that my house
may be filled, for not one of them that have
wished to be excused shall taste of my sup-
per.
	Now we would ask what is meant by oil in
their lamps? It is evident that the oil Is the
Holy Ghost that bears witness of the Father
and the Son to all baptized believers, who
are honest and are legally baptized by
one having authority to lay on hands for
the reception of the Holy Ghost. Now
some among us discourage the gift of
tongues because of the adversary taking
advantage of the unwise use of the gift.
In the Book of Mormon, 120th page, Ne-
phi speaking to the saints said, "Do you not
remember that I said unto you that after ye
had received the Holy Ghost ye should
speak with the tongue of angels." Angels
speak by the power of the Holy Ghost,
wherefore they speak the workds of Christ, for
when a man speaketh by the power of the
Holy Ghost the Holy Ghost carrieth it in-
to the hearts of the children of men, but
many harden their hearts against the Holy
Spirit that it hath no place in them." Book
of Mormon 514th page. "Behold I say un-
to you God changeth not and is a God of
miracles, and the reason why He ceaseth to
do miracles among the children of men is
because that they dwindle in unbelief and
depart from the right way and know now
God in whom they should trust."
	Now I feel bound by all that is sacred and
true to sustain and encourage these gifts of
the Gospel; if the adversary and all his
agents were to heal the sick, and speak in
tongues and do miracles, I know there is
the counterfeit and the true coin, and the
Holy Ghost is the dictator. I read of Jos-
eph Smith's first interview with Brigham
Young, when the hour arrived for family
prayer,  the Prophet Joseph called on Bro.
Young to pray and he prayed in tongues,
and those present asked the prophet what
he thought of the gift. Brother Young exer-
cised during the prayer; the prophect replied
"Brother Brigham spoke in the pure Adamic
language, and it was given by the Holy
Ghost and is of God, and he will yet lead
this people." And if I recollect right Levi
Hancock, who is still living, was present on
that occasion.
	In referring to the Book of Mormon, page
562, we find the following in respect to the
continuation of the gifts in the true church:
"And now I speak unto all the ends of the
earth, that if the day cometh that the
power and gifts of God shall be done away
among you, it shall be because of unbelief;
and woe unto those who shall do these
things away and die in their sins; they can-
not be saved in the Kingdom of God for if
there be one among you that doeth good he
shall work by the power and gifts of God."
	W. EAST.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE KING of Spain has decorated the
Marchioness of Francos with the cross of
the "Noble ladies of Marie Louise."
	A GRAND wedding is to take place soon
at Hyderabad, India. The bridegroom is
one of the most promising men at present
in that vicinity; a few months ago, during
the absence of his uncle in Europe and
Delhi, he officiated as Prime Minister. He
is Mawab, Mookram-ool-dowlah. The bride
is his cousin, the daughter of Sir Salar
Jung.
	VICTORIA OF England, Augusta of Ger-
many, and Marie of Russia are presently to
receive, from the American Women's Cen-
tennial Executive Committe, elaborately
bound copies of "The New Century for
Women," "Reports of the Philanthropic
and Charitable Institutions of the World,"
"Worthy women of our First Century,"
and "Final Report of the Women's Centen-
nial Executive Committee." These books
are records of women's work at the Centen-
nial, and are enclosed in cases made of
Florida red cedar, lined with Vermont
bird's-eye maple. They are to be given in
recognition and acknowledgment of the
courtesy bestowed by these sovereigns up-
on the Women's Centennial Executive
Committee.


"﻿I WAS KEPT IN."

	"Why didn't you come home to lunch?"
asked a mother of a pale, nervous little girl
as she came listlessly into the room one sul-
try afternoon, after school was out for the
day.
	"I was kept in," answered the child, and
the tired look and pitiful quiver of the voice
roused tenderness in the mother's heart
and indignation in ours.
	We are not one of those who complain or
find fault with school discipline, but it is
barbarity in the extreme to keep children
in their seats for any reason whatever dur-
ing the regular and needed seasons for rec-
reation. Then to keep a delicate little girl
whose brain is being worked to death at the
expense of her bodily forces, as any one
can see, in during the entire noon, conning
over in her dizzy little brain problems and
propositions that will come to her readily
and freely after a little rest, is barbarity
that is simply outrageous. We never hear
the expression, "I was kept in," at recess or
noon, coming from a girl or boy under six-
teen years of age, without feeling an in-
stant throb of indignation, and a desire to
give the teacher a lecture on hygiene and
humanity.—Ex.


Half of the people in the world are idle
for want of some overseeing eye to set
them to work. The advice which Haydon
gave to the erratic poet Keats, to settle
down to some definite purpose, needs be
given to almost one half of mankind.
There are but few persons but would find
themselves comfortably well off if they
would take hold of any one of a hundred
pursuits and stick to it. Industry and econ-
omy will make a most wonderful change in
many households.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
tke Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday June 23, was particularly spirited
and interesting. All who spoke seemed
to be impressed with a consciousness of the
necessity of earnest, and energetic action
on the subject of establishing home manu-
factures, and living more completely and
truly in accordance with the spirit and re-
quirements of the Gospel.
	The meeting was addressed by President
Mrs. M. I. Horne, Miss E. R. Snow, Zina D.
Young, Mrs. E. Howard, and Mrs. M. J. At-
wood, President of Kamas Relief Society;
also Mrs. W. East, Mrs. M. E. A. Wat-
mough and Mrs. M. P. Anderson, all seem-
ingly filled with the good spirit. The prin-
cipal subjects of the meeting were those
pertaining to the practical labors of the
sisters at this time; the storing of grain by
the women of Utah was emphatically dwelt
upon, and many practical points in relation
to it were impressed upon the minds of the
sisters. Sericulture and its bearing upon
the future good of the people of this Terri-
tory, was also commented largely and wise-
ly upon. The necessity of sustaining the
Woman's Commission House, where all
home-manufactured articles are offered for
sale, was another item of interest, and much
was said that would have a tendency to
stimulate the people in the right direction.
The WOMAN'S EXPONENT was spoken of by
several, who seemed to realize the great
good resulting from it, and expressed a wish
to have its subscription increased so as to
warrant its being enlarged. The women of
Utah have so many labors to perform that
are of general interest to all, that it is abso-
lutely necessary to have some medium by
which they can be apprised of each others
movements, and act in unison. The EXPO-
NENT forms a small part of church litera-
ture; it is the voice of the women of the
church, and contains a part of the record of
their labors. These meetings are becoming
more and more interesting, and if the sis-
ters, mothers and daughters, want to go
where they can have a spiritual feast, they
should attend the Woman's Meeting in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms. The
meeting opens at two o'clock p. m. and
closes at four o'clock.

			ALMY, UINTA, WYOMING TER.
						May 26th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I wrote last January informing you of our
organization into a Relief Society. As this
is a coal-mining district we are more liable
to change than other places. Brothers Pike,
Crowther and Stoddart are removing their
families to Lake Town, Bear Lake; this
renders necessary a change of officers here.
Mrs. Catherine Beveridge is appointed to
preside in the place of Mrs. Pike; Mrs.
Martha Woodhouse, Mrs. Sims, Counselors.
Several other changes for various causes
have had to be made. The sisters who
have left us rejoice that they have assisted
in starting a Relief Society in this place.
Our society has been called upon to furnish
complete suits for two aged brethren for
burial; and we have assisted those who
through age or misfortune required it. We
meet every Monday; one meeting in the
month for the Teachers, one is a general
testimony meeting, the others for sewing.
These meetings are a benefit and blessing
to us, and we appreciate the privilege of
attending them. The counsel of those who
have been called to leave our settlement, is

[Column 2]
continue to meet together, fulfil the mis-
sion given to the sisters of this place, per-
form every duty faithfully, both officers and
members, and the Lord will flood your lives
with blessings.
	Accept our respect and earnest good
wishes.
		ELIZABETH LOUSIA CROWTHER,
							Secretary.

			BENJAMIN, June 13th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We wish to introduce ourselves as one of
the Societies of the great workers of Zion.
Our Society was organized last December
by Bishop Joseph Tanner of Payson, as fol-
lows:
	Sarah S. Roontz, President,
	Mary E. Stewart,	} Counselors.
	Sarah J. Betts	}
	E. L. Rogers, Secretary,
	K. H. Richardson, Treasurer.
	There are about twenty members, who all
feel interested enough in the Kingdom of
God to spend a portion of their time and
money in aiding the noble women of Utah
in their efforts to do good to all mankind.
We live in a secluded little town called
Benjamin, which is situated in a farming
district three miles north of Payson. We
take an interest in the storing of grain by
the sisters; we have planted two acres of
wheat, which is growing nicely. We think
we have a good place for silk-culture, there
being plenty of land for that purpose. We
have planted some mulberry trees this
spring, and expect to plant a great quantity
in the fall. We enjoy reading the EXPO-
NENT very much. We have given our
place a description for the sisters who visit
the Relief Societies, that they will not for-
get to visit us.
			Yours truly,
					E. L. ROGERS, Sec'y.

			EPHRAIM, June 5th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:	The sisters in Ephraim had a very pleas-
ant and profitable time on Thursday, May
31st. There were present, besides our own,
Bishop E. Peterson and one of his counsel-
ors, Elder George Taylor, and other breth-
ren, Mrs. Zina D. Young from Salt Lake
City, Mrs. Mary J. Young and Mr. and Mrs.
Madsen from Gunnison, and Mrs. Christo-
pherson from Manti. Mrs. S. A. Peterson
presided; after the usual opening exercises,
Mrs. Zina D. Young gave us a most excel-
lent address on home industries and silk
manufacture; she showed us specimens of
silk fringe, thread, and handkerchiefs, all
of home material and manufacture. She
recommended Mrs. Jane Haddon to teach
the art of making pillow lace, in which she
is proficient; exhorted the sisters to be
faithful and obedient, and to be strictly
mindful of their duty to their dead friends.
On Friday evening she addressed the young
ladies and gentlemen; her instructions were
almost invaluable, truly full of the Spirit of
God. On Friday, the 1st of June, the 76th
birthday of President Brigham Young,
there was a dinner party given in honor of
the day, at which Mrs. Zina D. Young was
present. May God spare him and his for
many years.
		Your sister,
				AGNES S. ARMSTRONG.

				PAYSON, June 7th, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	The annual meeting of the Payson Relief
Society was held May 20th, 1877, on which

[Column 3]
occasion the house was decorated with the
handiwork of the sisters as well as works
of art contributed by the brethren. A
poem on home industry, silk culture, the
storing of grain, talents, wisdom, fashion
and virtue, composed for the occasion by
Mrs. A. M. Snyder, was read. Among the
visitors were Bishop Tanner, Elders Henry
W. Barnett, J. L. Townsend, Edward Reed
and several other brethren, also the Presi-
dent of the Relief Society at Goshen, her
counselors, secretary, and other members
of the Society. After the meeting had
been opened in the usual way the annual
report was read, which showed that there
had been received during the year:
Donations..................................... $230 33 ½
Disbursed..................................... $159 09
After which the President, Mrs. Jane Si-
mons said she was pleased to see so many
present. She called the attention of the
meeting to a pair of socks, the silk raised,
spun and knit by Mrs. Grace Wegnall; also
a pair of black silk mitts by Mrs. Arteme-
sia White; artificial flowers by Miss Lillie
Curtis; crochet basket by Miss Fannie
Coombs, and many other handsome articles,
too numerous to mention. There were
also fancy brackets for flower-pots, hanging-
baskets and many other things by J. L. Towns-
end; and paintings by the brethren. The
speaker said, as a society all had tried to fill
their missions, and the president had tried
to act in concert with the Bishop.
	Elders Henry Barnett, J. L. Townsend,
and Edward Reed each addressed the meet-
ing and gave good counsel, and encouraged
the sisters to persevere in their united la-
bors.
	President Mrs. Simons said she would
like to hear from Bishop Tanner, but he
said there was not time.
	We have a lot planted with mulberry
trees. The City Council has granted us
another; if successful with the mulberry
trees and raising the worms they will grant
us three more. Our president with her
counselors and all the sisters feel anxious
to fill their mission in sericulture, and all
other counsel that is given, and join with
me in love, wishing every success to at-
tend your labors.
					M. A. HARDY.

	HOOPER, WEBER Co., June 14th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society numbers one hundred
and thirty-eight members and although we
may have been slow in writing to your val-
uable and interesting paper, we have nev-
ertheless been actively engaged in the good
works of duty and benevolence. The poor
and sick have received every attention in
our power to bestow. It is well known that
our settlement extends over a large breadth
of country, consequently our people are
scattered, yet notwithstanding this our
meetings are well attended and we enjoy
ourselves at these assemblies. Mrs. Ade-
line Belnap is President, ably assisted by
Mrs. Margaret Manning, and Mrs. Mary
Jargensen, her counselors, Mrs. Elizabeth
Guilliam, Secretary, and Mrs. Mary Stevens
Treasurer. Unity and a good spirit prevails.
The health of the people is good, the bless-
ings of God are abundantly bestowed upon
us.
	Asking our heavenly Father to bless you
in your noble work among your sisters, and
that the EXPONENT may always be as it is
now a welcome visitor.
	Respectfully, your sister in the Gospel,
			ELIZABETH GUILLIAM, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		19


For the EXPONENT
EARTH WEARY. 

Through heat and dust, till the gloom of night,
	I had wrought my task alone;
And in the strife between "might and right"
	My spirit so weak had grown,
With eyes that drooped in the heavenly light,
	I came to the Master's Throne.

Nor shame, I am here, but weary, laid
	My burden down at his feet.
Waiting his time; while earthward strayed
	Sad thoughts to hearts that beat
As full a life, as when I made
	My sacrifice complete.

What hast thou brought me back, my child?
	My heavenly Master said.
A broken heart all earth-defiled,
	Whence faith in human kind is fled;
Where weeds of human kind run wild,
	And heaven-lent strength is dead.

And what hast thou with the sinful done?
	My heavenly Master said.
I have shunned the path of the sinful one,
	Can the blind by the blind be led?
My hands from his no stain has won,
	Nor my NAME a stain, I said.

Thy Saviour walked with the sinful man,
	No stain His name doth bear:
The stain which doth the sinful brand,
	A tear might wash it fair:
And if thy heart go with thy hand.
	It toucheth him as a prayer.

And how hast thou with the lonely dealt?
	The orphan heart in they care
Have they the joy of thy home-life felt?
	Hast thou led them from the snare?
Had they place beside ye when ye knelt;
	And in thy love a share?

And hath thy heart unto me stood true
	When the Tempter entered in?
Lord, I have striven Thy will to do;
	Yet oft have forgetful been
When earthly sorrows pierced me through:
	Yet I strove thy love to win.

None so alone and dismayed can be,
	As one who hath God forgot.
Though bowed with grief, thou seest not me,
	Thy Master forsaketh not;
And 'mid despair my love shalt see
	If ye faithful bear thy lot.

And would ye [-]urn from the harvest field?
	My heavenly Master said;
Return and toil—for I am thy shield—
	In the way thy Saviour led;
Toil and rejoice in the work revealed
	For the living and the dead!

Then while the mournful tears did rise
	For the heavenly rest denied,
I lifted up mine aching eyes,
	Lo! a curtain parted wide;
And my being thrilled with swift surprise,
	For the DEAD thronged far and wide.

They lifted their holy eyes to mine
	In appeal more deep than speech;
But each heart-cry, by the power divine,
	To my human heart did reach,
'Till with their souls, and before His throne,
	We bowed in covenant each.

Then I cried! I go to the earth again!
	To labor and not to mourn;
Noting no more the wrongs of man,
	For a light in my soul doth burn,
That will bless and brighten duty, 'till when
	I shall hear Him call return.

	AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCH[--]RON.
June 11th, 1877.


[Column 1]

A FEW REFLECTIONS.

(CONTINUED.)

	I know some say this principle belonged
to the Mosaic dispensation, and was done
away when Christ came and fulfilled the
law given to Moses. Gentlemen and ladies,
I do not so understand it; this was a law
revealed in the dispensation of the patri-
archs, and handed down to Moses, and he
was wise enough to obey it, otherwise he
would have come under condemnation, how

[Column 2]

ever strict he might have been to observe
the laws given to him to govern his own
peculiar people. Abraham as well as Moses
offered sacrifices. Why? Because God
commanded them to do so, as a type of the
Great Sacrifice which should be offered—
even Christ the Lamb of God, to atone for
the sins of the world, that as man by trans-
gression had been driven from the presence
of God, he might through the atonement
and faith in His Son, be brought back again
to enjoy the Father's presence.
	And when Christ came in the meridian
of time he said, "I come not to destroy the
law or the prophets, but to fulfill." [Mat.
5th chap., 17th verse.] And by his cruci-
fixion he fulfilled the law of sacrifice, and
made a new law in the stead thereof, which
is the law of sacrament, in commemoration
of His broken body and spilt blood; and
this law is binding upon all who believe in
the gospel, and enter in at the door, as laid
down by Jesus and his Apostles having au-
thority from God. Now as there are many
who say there is not anything in the sayings
of the Savior, or in the New Testament,
in favor of plural marriage, before we pro-
ceed further please allow me to ask you a
question. Does it look reasonable, or is it
at all consistent, that God, who says He can
not look upon sin with the least degree of
allowance, should command all these say-
ings to be preserved and handed down as a
law and guide for the salvation of all fu-
ture generations, and hold up these patri-
archs and their works as an example
worthy of imitation, if He did not believe
in and sanction the principles they taught
and practised? It is written—"A house di-
vided against itself cannot stand." The
Savior not only refers the people to Abra-
ham, Isaac and Jacob, as also Moses, but in
Matthew, 17th chapter, 2d and 3d verses,
it says: "After Jesus was transfigured be-
fore them (Peter, James and John)
behold, then appeared unto them Moses and
Elias talking with him." In Matthew 22d
chapter and 32d verse, "I am the God of
Abraham, and the God of Isaac and the
God of Jacob," thus mentioning, as most
worthy the love and esteem of His Father,
these noted patriarchs of plural marriage;
and in John, 5th chapter, 46th verse, he
said: "For had ye believed Moses, ye would
have believed me: for he wrote of me. But
if ye believed not his writings how shall
ye believe my words." It plainly appears
by these remarks that Christ and Moses
were one in faith and doctrine. Again, in
Luke, 13th chapter, 28th verse, he said:
"There shall be weeping and gnashing of
teeth when ye shall see Abraham, Isaac and
Jacob, and all the prophets in the kingdom
of God, and you yourselves thrust out."
John, 8th chapter, 39th verse, he said: "If
you were Abraham's children ye would do
the works of Abraham;" thereby showing
that he not only approved his works, but
would that others should follow his exam-
ple.
	The twelve patriarchs spoken of by the
Apostles in Acts, 7th chapter, 8th verse,
were the sons of Jacob by his plural wives.
In Acts, 13th chapter, 22d and 23d verses,
when Paul and Barnabas were teaching the
people the word of God, the Gospel as
preached by their forefathers, in order to
impress it more firmly upon their minds
they told them how the Lord said, "I have
found David the son of Jesse, a man after
mine own heart, which shall fulfill all my
will. Of this man's seed hath God, accord-
ing to his promise, raised unto Israel a Sa-
vior, Jesus."
	Hence, to my understanding this patri-
archal, polygamic tree has been always a

[Column 3]

favorite and chosen tree of the Lord of the
vineyard; and that no other could be found
which suited his purposes so well; and by
the fruit thereof we are to judge what man-
ner of tree it is. And of this tree Jesus is
the fruit. He could not condemn or do
away with it, for in so doing he would con-
demn himself; and not only that, but des-
troy the plan of the restoration of the whole
human family.
	Now, as we have analyzed the tree and
some of its main branches, and the fruit
thereof, and found them to be accepted of
the Lord of the vineyard, and a chosen seed,
we will search and learn what kind of a
root it has, for if you gentlemen and ladies
are determined to destroy this tree, you
should understand what you will have to
do in order to accomplish your designs.
We will discuss with you the root of this
patriarchal tree in our next chapter.
	(TO BE CONTINUED.)


ORGANIZATION OF UTAH COUNTY
SILK ASSOCIATION.

		AMERICAN FORK, June 9th, 1877.
	According to previous appointment, a
meeting was held at this place at 2 p. m.,
for the purpose of organizing a Silk Asso-
ciation for Utah County. Nearly all the
settlements were represented. We were
also favored with the company of Judge
Pyper of Salt Lake City. Meeting called to
order by D. Graves of Provo, and motioned
that Bishop L. E. Harrington act as Chair-
man of the meeting, and Wm. Greenwood
Secretary of the same.
	The chairman stated the object of the
meeting, which was to organize for the
raising of silk, and combining our efforts
for that purpose. Daniel Graves expressed
the interest he felt, and his anxiety to see
the day when silk raising would be a suc-
cess in Utah.
	Judge Pyper gave at length his experi-
ence in raising silk worms, and the neces-
sity of opening up a market for the disposal
of the silk, etc., in order to obtain means
to remunerate the laborer. Spoke very in-
terestingly on the habits and treatment of
the worms, and also of the many causes of
failure. Gave instructions concerning the
raising of the mulberry tree, and referred
to the small plantation under the superin-
tendance of Mrs. Mary Hindley, President
of the Relief Society of American Fork, as
very creditable, and set out just right.
	Samuel Cornaby related some of his
practical experience with the worms, and
recommended that we never cease our ex-
ertions until we make silk raising a success
in Utah.
	Short addresses were given by Bishop
George Halliday of Santaquin, Mrs. Han-
nah Woolley and Mrs. Mary Hindley.
	A committee were then chosen to nomi-
nate officers for the organization. During
their absence Judge Pyper addressed the
meeting interestingly, and recommended
the planting of mulberry trees in our or-
chards and around our fences, etc.
	The committee then reported the follow-
ing names, which were unanimously adopt-
ed:
	President, Mrs. Mary Hindley of Ameri-
can Fork; Vice Presidents will embrace all
the Presidents of Relief Societies and Re-
trenchment Associations in Utah County,
or their representatives elect; Secretary,
Mrs. Emma Featherstone of American
Fork; Treasurer, Mrs. Jemima Durant of
American Fork; Corresponding Secretary,
Mrs. Samuel Cornaby of Spanish Fork;
Traveling Agent, Daniel Graves of Provo.
	E. FEATHERSTONE.


20		WOMAN'S		EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

LULA GREEN RICHARDS,			} Editors.
EMMELINE B. WELLS.				}

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms; One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, JULY 1, 1877.


[Column 1]

WOMAN'S EXPECTATIONS.

	It is often remarked that the women of the
present age are trying to revolutionize the 
world. That a new era for woman has com-
menced here in America and elsewhere is pos-
itive and apparent. From nearly all quarters
of the globe come the tidings of woman's ad-
vancement, or development, or influence in
some new sphere, or public capacity. 
	This is real. Woman's star is in the ascend-
ant. Woman begins to feel in a greater degree
the influence of the mission given her to per-
form, and a presentiment of the blessings
which are to be bestowed upon her when she
arrives at a more advanced practise of the true
laws of life and health. This consciousness
of something which is to come, is so widely ap-
parent as to affect almost all womankind.
They know there is a change to be effected and 
they are striving for it many of them, but in dif-
ferent ways. What is the cause of this peculiar
genius of the age, and what its signification?
Can the wise, the learned, the philosopher, the
sage, the great observers of human nature and 
"the signs of the times" inform us? We know
what they can tell us, and that is all they
comprehend about it. This is their summing
up of the matter. Woman feels her servitude,
her degradation, and she is determined to as-
sert her rights, to attain to an equality with 
man, and to train herself to fill any position
and places of trust and honor as appropriately
and with as much dignity as her brother man.
That she may not be compelled to conditions
that are distasteful and objectionable in matri-
mony, that she shall have rights and privi-
leges peculiarly her own and be able to protect
herself in them. That she need not be held
as goods and chattels at the mercy or brutality
of man. To be brief, they believe her highest
motive is, that she may be recognized as a re-
sponsible being, capable of judging for and
maintaining herself, and standing upon just as
broad, grand and elevated a platform as man.
This is all the wisdom of the world's wise acres
can tell you. The majority of men hold such
ideas in derision. Woman, they say is to them
in her dependency, dearer, lovelier, more com-
panionable than when she steps out of her 
sphere and seeks to become equal in education,
and in self-reliance to man. One great Eng-
lish writer in alluding to the subject says, such
movements will tend to make "masculine wo-
men and effeminate men."  On the contrary,
we argue that such mothers as have disciplined
themselves to rely more fully upon their own
judgment, who have been educated to a high
standard in all that the science of life can teach,
in all departments of knowledge which pertain
to the development of mental or physical fac-
ulties, will exercise such pre-natal and after

[Column 2]

influences over their offspring as will imbue
their sons with noble intutitions and higher
aspirations, than the mother whose most en-
grossing object in life is the diligent care of her
husband's house and the fear of losing any por-
tion of his affection. To many women this 
fear is the bane of their lives, and to obtain,
and retain the husband's love, is more to them
than the salvation of their own souls, or the 
present or future welfare of their offspring.
	When woman's highest incentive is to attain
to the most superior excellence in the discip-
ling and refining of the faculties of the soul,
when she esteems these of more consequence
than the cultivation of the graces and accom-
plishments that will charm the senses, and 
captivate the hearts of the opposite sex, then
will much of the jealousy and envy which now
exists, sink into oblivion; and a great share of
the unhappiness among men and women will
consequently give place to healthier thoughts
and purer feelings.
	Then women will be capable of a more ex-
alted sentiment in the associations of a mari-
tal nature, and it will be none the less genuine
because it is governed and controlled by higher
thoughts and holier impulses. Through such
channels of cultivation and refinement of soul,
woman may eventually attain to a fuller reali-
zation of her future destiny. And as woman
thus steps forward and takes a higher step to-
wards perfection, she will naturally aspire to
unite herself in the sacred and holy covenant
of marriage with a higher type of manhood.
Thus may woman become a real helper in the 
preparation to be made for "the coming of the
Bridegroom." Is it not reasonable to suppose
that the divinity in woman's nature is being in-
fluenced by the spirit of the age which betokens
the near approach of the great advent of the 
Messiah? There is a power which mankind do
not understand that is working among the in-
habitants of the earth. It is the ushering in 
of the great final movement for the redemption
of the human family, the living and the dead:
and as woman was first in the transgression, 
first at the sepulchre, first to proclaim the res-
urrection of Christ, it is but consistent with the
past to suppose, she will be an active and po-
tent helper in the restoration of all things,
which will include the removal of the curse
placed upon her after her transgression, and 
which will restore woman to her true position.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	MANY THANKS to Mrs. Elizabeth Wheeler
of Sugar House Ward, who placed upon our ta-
ble recently a dish of most delicious red-ripe
cherries, also a bouquet of wild-wood flowers
for which we have always felt a decided prefer-
ence. They carry our thoughts back unbidden
to childhood with its thousand familiar
haunts, where the lily-of-the-valley, the blue-
eyed daisy, the forget-me-not, the fragrant
honeysuckle and all the varieties of woodland
wild flowers bloomed in profusion. Yes give
us the "wild-wood flowers, sweet wild-wood
flowers."
	A SISTER IN Ephraim, Sanpete Co. has for-
warded the following for publication; a remedy
for the Codling moth, and although perhaps it
is rather late in the season now, it may be well
to know it:
	We have heard many cures for the Codling
moth, such as illuminated washtubs and the
like, which doubtless are all good in their way;
now I will give you another way. Go out into
your lots, examine your trees, you will find
little patches of yellow eggs, you have seen
flies blow meat, they are something like it,


only darker colored. Take with you all your
children that can reach the branches, then treat
them (that is the moths,) as I have done: take
your thumb, you can put a rag around it if
you like, and smash the eggs; set about it at
once for the eggs are swelling, in this way you
can destroy millions. It has been effectual in
hundreds of instances.

	A SPECIAL MEETING of the Relief Society
of Taylorsville, North Jordan Ward, Salt Lake
Co., was held Tuesday, June 26, for the purpose
of organizing the young ladies of the ward in-
to a Retrenchment Association. Bishop Sam-
uel Bennion, his counselors and some other
brethren were present. Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. M. I Horne, Mrs. E. S. Barney, and Mrs.
E. B. Wells from Salt Lake City, were also
present by invitation. Mrs. M. I Horne was
nominated by Miss E. R. Snow to preside over
the meeting, and Miss Hattie Bennion was
chosen to act as secretary pro tem. The
officers were chosen and sustained by the vote
of the Bishop, the Relief Society and all pres-
ent. Mrs. Mary Ann Hague was elected as
president, Miss Hattie Bennion, secretary.
Some business was transacted pertaining to the
society, and many good things were said by
the Bishop and the sisters, bringing in the sub-
ject of women's organizations, storing grain,
sericulture, The Woman's Store, the necessity
of being practically self-sustaining, and
other things which pertain to the department
of woman's labor in the kingdom of God.


ITEMS FROM THE DIARY OF JOSEPH
SMITH.

TO THE RELIEF SOCIETY, NAUVOO, JUNE
	9th, 1842. REPORTED BY MISS E. R.
	SNOW.

[CONTINUED]

	President Joseph Smith opened the meet-
ing by prayer, and then addressed the congre-
gation on the design of the institution. Said
it is no matter how fast the society increases,
if all the members are virtuous; that we must
be as particular with regard to the character of
members now, as when the society first start-
ed; that sometimes persons wish to crowd
themselves into a society of this kind when
they do not intend to pursue the ways of pur-
ity and righteousness, as if the society would
be a shelter to them in their iniquity.
	He said that henceforth no person shall be
admitted, but by presenting regular petitions,
signed by two or three members in good stand-
ing in the society, and whoever comes in must
be of good report.
	Objections having been previously made
against Mahala Overton, they were removed;
after which President Joseph Smith continued
his address; said he was going to preach mercy.
Suppose that Jesus Christ and holy angels
should object to us on frivolous things, what
would become of us?  We must be merciful to
one another, and overlook small things.
	Respecting the reception of sister Overton,
President Joseph Smith said: It grieves me
that there is no fuller fellowship; if one mem-
ber suffer all feel it; by union of feeling we ob-
tain power with God. Christ said he came to
call sinners to repentance, and save them.
Christ was condemned by the self-righteous
Jews because he took sinners into his society;
he took them upon the principle that they re-
pented of their sins. It is the object of this so-
ciety to reform persons, not to take those who
who are corrupt and foster them in their wick-
edness; but if they repent we are bound to


[Column 1]
take them, and by kindness sanctify and
cleanse them from all unrighteousness by our
influence in watching over them. Nothing
will have such influence over people as the
fear of being disfellowshipped by so goodly a
society as this. Then take sister Overton as
Jesus received sinners into his bosom. Sister
Overton, in the name of the Lord, I now make
you free. Nothing is so much calculated to
lead people to forsake sin as to take them by
the hand, and watch over them with tender-
ness. When persons manifest the least kind-
ness or love toward me, O what power it has
over my mind, while the opposite course has a
tendency to harrow up all the harsh feelings
and depress the human mind.
	It is one evidence that men are unacquaint-
ed with the principles of godliness to behold
the contraction of affectionate feelings and lack
of charity in the world. The power and glory
of godliness is spread out on a broad principle
to throw out the mantle of charity. God does
not look upon sin with allowance, but when
men have sinned, there must be allowance
made for them.
	All the religious world is boasting of right-
eousness: it is the doctrine of the devil to re-
tard the human mind, and hinder our progress,
by filling us with self-rightousness. The
nearer we get to our Heavenly Father, the
more are we disposed to look with compassion
on perishing souls; we feel that we want to
take them upon our shoulders, and cast their
sins behind our backs. My talk is intended
for all this society; if you would have God
have mercy on you, have mercy on one an-
other.
	President Smith then referred them to the
conduct of the Savior when he was taken and
crucified, etc.
	He then made a promise in the name of the
Lord, saying that that soul who has right-
eousness enough to ask God in the secret place
for life, every day of their lives, shall live to
three score years and ten. We must walk up-
rightly all the day long. How glorious are the
principles of righteousness! We are full of
selfishness; the devil flatters us that we are
very righteous, when we are feeding on the
faults of others. We can only live by worship-
ping our God; all must do it for themselves;
none can do it for another. How mild the
Savior dealt with Peter, saying, "When thou
art converted, strengthen thy brethren." At
another time, he said to him, "Lovest thou
me?" and having received Peter's reply, he
said, "Feed my sheep." If the sisters love the
Lord, let them feed the sheep, and not destroy
them. How oft have wise men and women
sought to dictate brother Joseph by saying,
"Oh, if I were brother Joseph, I would do this
and that;" but if they were in brother Joseph's
shoes they would find that men or women
could not be compelled into the Kingdom of
God, but must be dealt with in long suffering,
and at last we shall save them. The way to
keep all the saints together, and keep the work
rolling, is to wait with all long-suffering, till
God shall bring such characters to justice.
There should be no license for sin, but mercy
should go hand in hand with reproof.
	Sisters of this society, shall there be strife
among you? I WILL NOT HAVE IT. You
must repent, and get the love of God. Away
with self-righteousness. The best measure or
principle to bring the poor to repentance is to
administer to their wants; the Ladies Relief
Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to
save souls.
	President Smith then said that he would
give a lot of land to the society, by deeding it
to the treasurer, that the society may build

[Column 2]
houses for the poor. He also said he would
give a house, frame not finished, and that
brother Cahoon will move it on to the afore-
said lot, and the society can pay him by giv-
ing orders on the store; that it was a good plan
to set those to work who are owing widows,
and thus made an offset; etc.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HELP.

		Oh how beautiful is health
		To the weary, on the shelf.
	That is truth whoever wrote it. How often
we see sufferers of every grade, come to the
last days of life before the helping hand is
stretched out to them; when the sands of life
are nearly run out, the lying bed is, perhaps,
surrounded with sympathizing friends, good
things pour in, but the eyes of the dying can
only look, "too late!" Six months, or a year
before, had these comforts flowed in, the life
now pas ing away might, with the blessing of
God, have been renovated, the spirit now broken,
spirit might have been propped up, and invig-
orated  Blessed is the hand held out in time
to save! But it is not always in sickness that
help is needed; the man full of health requires
much more than the sick—good health is im-
perative, and Nature is peremptory in her de-
mands; sickness asks only a cooling drink for
the parched lips, a sweet, cool bed, a nicely ar-
ranged pillow and a loving friend to smoothe
it; a nurse that has tact and talent in her office,
these are nearly all the invalid requires. But
health is life and animation, health springs
from the couch throws off the wrappers, says:
I want to be clothed, I want food, I am well
again, bless the Great Physician, I am well
again! I can work, and be useful once again,
I have come down from the intermediate state.
I am again of the earth, my Mother Earth,
and I love her! Give me work I can again be
useful and sustain my family, once again see
peace and plenty within my home! Alas! in
these days, the strong man, the willing man,
the man ready to do anything to procure hon-
est bread for his young children, seeks to labor,
but day by day has to live on a "hope deferred"
till he is well nigh "sick unto death"—a diag-
ging out of existence is the lot of those who
have no helping hand with influence in it
stretched out for them. Cannot work be found
for those who loathe the "bread of idleness?
Industry and labor are always honorable, and
should be rewarded for Scripture says "the la-
borer is worthy of his hire." Bread eaten by
labor is sweet, and all know it who eat such!
Amen.
	HANNAH T. KING.
S. L. City, June 26, 1877.


PAY AS YOU GO.

SELECTED.

	The credit system is one of the most pernic-
ious evils which afflict a community. It is
detrimental alike to the interests of the buyer
and the seller. Bad debts have devoured the
fortunes of thousands of once prosperous mer-
chants and left them hopelessly in bankruptcy;
and large debts have turned thousands out of
mansions into hovels, and clothed with rags
backs which have worn broadcloth and camel's
hair. A system which thus impoverishes all
classes. must of course, result in the general
depression of trade and the universal injury of 
a people. An establishment which has sold
goods for uncertain promises until the sheriff
can no longer resist the pressing invitation to
take what is left, is never reckoned in its in-


<atrtb'when they="" do="" not="" they?baukruptuhe="" ttader.iitn'="" arfy<evdbt="" the="" system="" -has="" a="" tenddh'cy'td="" mkk’d="" everyb’5dy="" poorer'vuii'n="" i="" vshh.v="" bourn..vjij="" vi-nuj="" jhr="" oiodw="" ,r="" <="" nl="" tic="" nub="" dans="" o-i="" iliv?<="" div="">solvency as a part of the wealth of a commu-
nity, and a store whose shelves are loaded with 
merchandise, but is among a people whose ex-
travagance, engendered and fostered by the
credit system, has plunged them into bank-
ruptcy, will never add much to the prosperity
of itself or its neighborhood.
	There is never any remarkable business ac-
tivity in a poor-house, and most of people
have always considered that this lack of enter-
prise in such a place is because it is a poor-
house. Money is a necessary motive-power in
trade. But the credit system has a direct ten-
dency to eat up both money and merchandise.
It has probably not escaped the notice of the
observing that there is in every community a
class of merchants who strenuously advocate a 
credit in preference to a cash system. This at
<atrtb'when they="" do="" not="" they?baukruptuhe="" ttader.iitn'="" arfy<evdbt="" the="" system="" -has="" a="" tenddh'cy'td="" mkk’d="" everyb’5dy="" poorer'vuii'n="" i="" vshh.v="" bourn..vjij="" vi-nuj="" jhr="" oiodw="" ,r="" <="" nl="" tic="" nub="" dans="" o-i="" iliv?<="" div="">first sight looks remarkably strange; but on 
second thought it appears in an entirely dif-
ferent light. These men are not generally
over conscientious, and they very truthfully
argue that a man or woman will buy more and
pay better prices under the credit system than
if they were obliged to pay cash. And here is
where the difficulty lies; people contract debts
without knowing it, and if they pay them
they bankrupt themselves, and when they do
not they bankrupt the trader. In any event
the system has a tendency to make everybody
poorer.


NOTICE.

	We are pleased to announce to the Ladies'
Medical Class of Salt Lake City, and other
ladies who may wish to join the class, that Mrs.
Zina D. Young, will meet with them, to aid and
assist them in the pursuit of the study of Obstet-
rics.	The class will meet at the office of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT every Wednesday, at
4 o'clock p.m., commencing July 11th. The
ladies will please bring their books, and it is
hoped they will receive mutual benefit. A
punctual attendance is desired.


SHREDS AND GLEANINGS.﻿

	CHILDHOOD's progress—From pap to
papa.
	WHY is a palmtree like a chronologer?
Because it furnishes dates.
	JEFFERSON's idea of a lawyer: A man
whose trade is to contest everything, con-
cede nothing, and talk by the hour.
	A READING people will become a thinking
people, and then they are capable of becom-
ing a rational and a great people.
	A RICH but parsimonious old gentleman,
on being taken to task for his uncharitable-
ness, said, "True, I don't give much, but if
you only knew how it hurts when I give
anything, you wouldn't wonder."
	"DON'T show my letters;" wrote a young
man to a young lady whom he adored;
"Don't be afraid," was the reply, "I'm just
as much ashamed of them as you are."
	A BOY was riding on his father's back
when the latter suggested that it was rather
an elevated railroad:  "Yes, pa," said the 
youngster, "I'm riding on a dummy."
	TWO rural constituents were talking of
the new member of the legislature from
their district. "Is he talented?" asked one.
"Well," replied the other, "I should say he
might set a house on fire by rubbing his
nose against the door post."


22		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO THE YOUNG LADIES ASSOCIA-
TIONS.

	My dear young friends, I have often
thought I would like to address a few lines
to you, which may possibly help to strength-
en and encourage some, and will, at least,
injure none.
	All parents who love their children are
greatly interested in the Associations for
the young. Even though they may be self-
ish and narrow-minded they desire the ad-
vancement of their own; and young peo-
ple more than older ones are sure to par-
take, in a great degree, of their surround-
ings.
	Some of you, in accordance with the
counsel of President Young, have adopted
resolutions in your societies, to stop round
dancing in your public halls; and to such I
will say, in the name of One whose prom-
ises never fail, if you will be firm in your
resolves you will yet realize a blessing
therefrom; and to those who have not, do
not turn away in disgust, with a feeling in
your hearts that you do not wish to hear
anything on the subject. You all exclaim
it is the most enjoyable form of dance we
have, and I agree with you. What could
be more beautiful or interesting, either to
participator or beholder, than a graceful,
nicely performed waltz? I believe there
will be such dancing in paradise, where all
will be pure and true in their actions and
emotions, and the heartless libertine cannot
clasp the innocent maiden to his vile breast.
Many think the Lord would not deign to
influence the minds of His servants in mat-
ters of so small moment, but to such I
would say, you know not His ways; and to
those who are doubtful, and have not confi-
dence to believe that this counsel has been
dictated by the Spirit of God, there is but
one way by which you can obtain that
knowledge, and the way is open to all. If
you are living in the enjoyment of the
Spirit of God yourselves you cannot be de-
ceived. We do not wish to hold the old
sectarian lake of fire and brimstone before
our young people, and preach to them until
they hate the sound of religion, but we
wish to see them gently and willingly led
by that peaceful influence which the Spirit
of God brings. When I have seen the
youthful stand up in the calm assurance
which His spirit brings, with no puffed up
confidence in their own greatness, but a
firm reliance on Him who is Omnipotent,
and speak in defense of the principles which
they have embraced, I have been led to ex-
claim, what could be more beautiful! Surely
all within their hearing, who have a heaven
born feeling left within them, must in
their hearts be convinced of the truths to
which they bear witness. I believe the
time will soon come when many of our
young people will arouse, and shake off
their feelings of worldly-mindedness; o that
such may be the case is the sincere prayer
of a mother in Zion.
	L. P.


[Column 1]
	PRIVATE CORRESPONDENCE.

			RIVERSIDE, CAL., June 6.
					As I sit here on the
broad verandah encircling Glenwood, watch-
ing the graceful pepper trees as they wave
to and fro, casting dense shadows over the
floor, feeling the soft breath of the sea
breeze as it creeps through the grape vine
lattice, it calls to memory the first day I
passed in Salt Lake, in October last, when
the locusts were nodding familiarly to each

[Column 2]
other as they shadowed the Townsend
House porch and occasionally a bright yel-
low leaf flitted noiselessly down into the
water and was borne away out of sight.
There is so much beauty and companion-
ship to me in trees and shrubs, that no
landscape seems perfect without them. I
thought I had never seen anything so Eden-
like in its beauty as some of the trees in
Salt Lake City, and I have been reminded
of them often in watching these in this
yard. I was so delighted with my first
glimpse of Zion, which was indeed to me a
city of rest, and always in connection with
thoughts of that place comes the recollec-
tions of my pleasant acquaintance with you
and yours, and I shall always feel so grate-
for having come to know you. I so often
think of the conversations we have had,
the songs the boys and girls sang for me, and
I wonder if we shall all enjoy the same ex-
perience together again—surely, I trust so.
	You ask for my impression of this coun-
try—I can scarcely tell you. The stage-ride
from Idaho to San Francisco was through a
delightful country, early in spring. Vege-
tation was rapidly advancing, and the broad
panoramic vision was a succession of delight-
ful landscapes, containing beautiful trees,
flowers, etc. Nature had on her richest
garments. The wonderful city of the Bay
—the great planet of the West—I was dis-
appointed in; so much has been said of it,
and yet it does not compare favorably with
Eastern cities—Oakland is much more de-
sirable as a home. The old ocean in all its
marvellous grandeur was a sight never to
be forgotten, and "I gathered shells by the
seashore" while listening to the sullen roar
of the surf. From Los Angelos the trip
was through an uninteresting country, and
I was quite glad when it was at an end.
Los Angelos is a very pretty city, though it
does not meet the expectation, I think, of
all tourists, so much has been said of its
marvellous beauty; nor is it so desirable for
invalids as other towns farther inland. I
enjoyed greatly a ride about the city and
through the orange groves, where the yellow
fruit and white blossoms contrasted beauti-
fully with the dark shining background of
leaves.
	After a short sojourn I left there and
came to Riverside, 60 miles distant. This
is a colony town of about 1200 inhabitants,
established four or five years ago, and is 6
miles distant from the railroad. The glow-
ing letters written from Southern Califor-
nia had given me the impression that it
must be the Eden of the world; but I found
it a dry and barren desert, and all the beau-
ty existing was that produced by irrigation
and hard labor; and in its original state was
destitute of anything save sagebrush scat-
tered here and there over the plain that
was as devoid of beauty as Idaho Flat. But
the possibilities of this country are unlim-
ited—it is quite possible to imagine if you
were to plant a broomstick in this product-
ive soil it would produce the choicest flow-
ers. Among the mountains and foothills
grow the most lovely wild flowers the sun
ever shone upon, whose beauty far exceeds
the choicest of hot-house plants; and along
the river bottoms the wild grape vine
stretches out its arms and clambers over
rocks, trees, shrubs, etc., in a most artistic
and charming fashion.
	"Water—more water," is the cry that
comes up from all over Southern California,
particularly this year, though as yet this
town, which has two large canals, supplied
from Santa Ana River, has not been visited
by drouth, and the yards and gardens are
very lovely. At first, as I said, I was dis-

[Column 3]
appointed, but each day new beauties and
possibilities are developed, that serve to 
strengthen my faith, and to-day I am as in-
sane upon the subject as the "oldest inhab-
itant." This district is a new one, and is
being set out to orange groves for a distance
of nine miles; a few trees are bearing, but
the majority will not produce fruit for a
few years. Lemons, limes, figs, pomegran-
ates, almonds, walnuts, etc., are cultivated
largely also.
	The Society of Riverside is all one could
desire, being composed of New Englanders,
a few New Yorkers, etc., all refined, culti-
vated, scholarly people. The schools are
excellent; three churches and several liter-
ary societies.


YOUNG MEN—AND OLD?

	I have been asked, "How is it that so
many young girls of the present day, in-
stead of marrying men whose ages corres-
pond to their own, seem, in preference, to
celect middle-aged, or even elderly men for
husbands? Is not this mating of 'January
and May' an outrage against decency and
nature?” Not at all. Some people attrib-
ute this preference for men of mature age
to a mercenary spirit on the part of the
young girls or their parents. I think that,
although marriages between youth and age
are, as a rule, undesirable, there may be
other reasons than speculative ones which
attract young women toward middle-aged
or elderly men.
	Men of mature years are aware that all
women are attracted by gentleness of man-
ner and deference to their sex. Conse-
quently they, as a rule, cultivate "the small,
sweet courtesies of life," which costs so lit-
tle to those born with instincts of gentle-
men, and which are responded to by women
of every age and condition with interest
and gratitude.
	It is frequently charged upon girls of the
day, that they are vain and frivolous to an
alarming degree. This is true to some ex-
tent, but the young men of the period,
with rare exceptions, are in addition to
these follies, characterized by a rudeness
and imbecility which have heretofore had
no parallel in the history of the human
race. Vain, foppish, blatant, coarse, and to
all save those they have a special fancy for,
uncivil, they are a disgrace to the age in
which they belong. Perfect blanks as to
intellect, perfect bores as to manners, the
young men of the present day, as a rule,
have nothing but their soft hands, and their
infinitely softer heads to recommend them
to the favorable notice of the sex to which,
with the discrimination peculiar to idiots,
consequent of a vacuum in the skull, they
fancy themselves mentally and physically
superior. The middle-class young man, as
a rule, is rude in his instincts uncivil in his
expressions, brutal in his mirth, and is, in
fact, with a more effeminate physique, in
manner, speech and act, a "Caliban" of the
most decided stamp. Those, who by birth
and social position are spoken of as belong-
ing to the upper classes, have a quiet, su-
perciliousness, an insolence of manner to-
wards women with whom they are famil-
iar, which is only endurable because it is
less demonstrative and obtrusive than that
which characterizes those of a lower social
status.
	Middle-aged and elderly men belong to
an age when deference to the sex to which
their mothers belonged was made as im-
portant a part of the education of a gentle-
man as were the articles of his faith to the
creed of a Christian. No matter how old


or unattractive, or how low in station a wo-
man might be, the simple fact of woman-
hood was a claim upon the kindness and
civility of the opposite sex. Half a cen-
tury ago society did not allow a young man
to ignore his mother or to snub his sisters as
unworthy of any attention or consideration
from his high mightiness. The old chival-
ric spirit of protection and deference to the
physically weaker sex was inculcated upon
boys of all classes and conditions, and rude-
ness of speech or brutality of act towards
a woman, would, in the society of a gener-
ation or two ago, have met with sudden and
severe castigation.
	No wonder that the "cold shoulder" of
the girl of the period—vain and frivolous
as she is—should be turned to young men,
and that she should prefer to venture her
happiness with one who held her sex in
some honor and respect, even if that one
should be no longer youthful or externally
attractive! Thank heaven that, weak and
hollow as she may be, there is some wo-
manly instinct in her nature which leads
her to turn away from the rude and coarse
nature and give herself to that which has
most appreciation and consideration for
womanhood—to one whom, if she does not
love, she still cannot help but respect and
esteem.
	ANNE E. M'DOWELL.
—"Woman's Words."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	MOUNT PLEASANT May 28, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society is in a prosperous
condition.  We hold our meetings semi-
monthly, one a business meeting the oth-
er a testimony meeting, and a good spirit
generally prevails among the sisters. We
have quite a number of poor in this place
solely dependent upon the Relief Society
for support, but we are happy to say that
through the liberality of the people we have
been able to meet every demand. Bishop
Seely has kindly told us to do all the good
that lays in our power, and when we lack
means come to him and he will help us and
in one or two cases he has already done so.
The sisters of this place are very anxious to 
carry out the instructions of President
Young in regard to storing grain. We have
somewhere about one hundred and fifty
bushels of wheat laid up and will still con-
tinue to do what we can to add more. We
feel grateful to our heavenly Father for the
knowledge given us through inspiration,
that we may be enabled through obedience
to the counsel of His servants, to escape
many of the calamities which are likely to 
come upon those who know not God and
will not obey His commandments.
	We are happy to state that the people
here have been liberal according to their
means in donating towards building the
Temple at St. George. But now that it is
finished, we are doubly blessed and privi-
leged to do all that lays in our power to-
wards the erection of one in our own county.
And when completed, where we can wor-
ship God and attend to ordinances both for
the living and the dead. Several of our
sisters, last year, took a lively interest in
the raising of silk. and their efforts proved
quite a success. We met together and
made quilts and sold, the proceeds of which
we used in purchasing the frames for a
cocoonery, which we hope at no distant day
to be able to finish Many of the people
here are showing their faith by their works
in planting out mulberry trees, and doing

[Column 2]

all in their power to carry out the counsel
of our beloved President, Sister Eliza R.
Snow.
	Our Young Men's Mutual Improvement
Association was well attended through the
winter,as also our Literary Association, and
the young of both sexes seemed to vie with
each other in doing what they could to
make their meetings both edifying and in-
teresting.
Last year our young ladies made a beauti-
ful quilt and sent it as a donation for the
St. George Temple. At present they are
engaged in the same business making one
as a commencement of their donations to-
wards the erection of the Temple at Manti.
	May the Lord bless all the Saints with
His holy spirit that they may gain wisdom,
knowledge and understanding, and an in-
crease of faith and good works.
	Our Annual Report is as follows:
	Means for the poor...............$ 126 31
	Expenditures........................	137 00
	Manti Temple.......................	41 90
	Emigration Fund..................	5 00
	Stocks on hand in Co-op store, Co-op
Tannery, Flour, etc., $53 30.
	I feel assured that you will be pleased to
see that we have done this well during the
past year.
	Our desires are to press forward and to do
the best we can, and assist in the great
work which lays before us.
	Praying God to bless you in your labors
of love and all who are interested in the
cause of Zion.
	M. F. C. MORRISON. Pres't:
	R. LOUISE HASLAR, Sec'y.

	LEWISTON, May 30, 1877.
EDITORS EXPONENT:
	Our Relief Society was organized Janu-
ary 6th, 1876. Mrs. Margaret E. Rawlins,
President; Mrs. Lucinda Cunningham and
Mrs. Martha Lewis, Counselors; Mrs. Susan
Terry, Secretary; Mrs. Caroline Allen Treas-
urer. The first year our meetings were
few, but since this new year begun we
have commenced anew. We now hold
monthly meetings which are well attended.
Our settlement is widely scattered, it is
about nine miles in length, and lays be-
tween two rivers, five miles apart; the
houses are scattering a quarter of a mile
and from that to a mile from each other.
It is difficult for the sisters to attend meet-
ing regularly, but their desires are to do
right. We have begun to lay up grain and
have about thirty bushels on hand. If we
are blessed with good crops this season we
will add considerable to it as soon as the
harvest comes in. The grasshoppers are
very numerous here; they have taken con-
siderable grain already. But we hope
through the blessing of God to be able to
raise a sufficiency to live on, and some to
store for the future. We are fighting the
grasshoppers with a will, and trying to save
all the grain we possibly can. We must
leave the result with the Lord for without
His aid we can not accomplish anything.
	Praying for the success of your valuable
paper, and for all the Relief Societies, I am
	Yours Truly,
		SARAH TERRY, Secretary.

	ROUND VALLEY May 14th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Round Valley Relief Society was or-

[Column 3]

ganized with fifteen members on the 15th
of March, 1877, by Bishop Willard G.
Smith of Morgan. We were formerly con-
nected with the South Morgan Relief So-
ciety, but our worthy bishop thought it
wisdom to organize us separately, as we are
so far away from that branch and it was not
convenient to attend the meetings. We
hold semi-monthly meetings which are well
attended, and all seem to take a lively in-
terest in them. The names of the officers,
are as follows: Mrs. Martha Tonks, Presi-
dent; Mrs. Ellen Gibby, and Fanny Olpin,
Counselors; Mrs. Martha J. Tonks, Secre-
tary; Mrs. Mary E. Geary, Treasurer.
	I remain your sister in the Gospel,
			M. J. Tonks, Secretary.

	PAROWAN, May 21st, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place, being
desirous to have a name and interest in
your valuable paper, requests us to offer a
few items for publication. Our Society was
reorganized in 1872, Mrs. Emma S. Smith,
President, Mrs. Lovinna Dame and Mrs.
Mary A. Wimmer, Counselors. We have
eight teachers, an appraising committee,
a treasurer, secretary and assistant sec-
retary. We are trying to do good
in assisting the poor and in every
other way we can. We have donat-
ed a small amount to the Temple in St.
George, and we have made rag carpets for
the room belonging to the Society and for
the meeting house. As a community we
do not advance very fast in any respect;
but we try to keep the Kingdom of God in
view; however, we have one advantage
over some other places, and that is in the
matter of fashion; we do not spend much
time making flounces and furbelows, but if
our dresses fit well and look neat that is
sufficient; but no doubt we do not come up
to the mark in many other respects.
	This season is very backward; early in 
the spring everything was auspicious of
there being plenty of fruit, but the frost
has now blighted our hopes in that direc-
tion.
	That we may remain faithful in the cause
we have espoused is the desire of
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		EMMA S. DECKER, Secretary
		ADELAIDE M. FISH, Ass't Sec'y.


ABOUT THE LITERATI.

	A volume of translations rarely makes an
epoch in the literary world. Yet some
translations have had much influence as
well as much notice In America. Mr.
Longfellow was early known in this field,
but, quite as early perhaps, the precious
volume collected by Mr. John S. Dwight,
containing the happiest rendering of the
minor poems of Goethe and Sciller, intro-
duced the Germanic muse of the Puritan
world of thought. Some of the transla-
tions in Mr. Dwight's volume were from
the pen of J. F. C. (Rev. James Freeman
Clarke). The other names in his list of
translators attest the love of the time for
German literature, and bring to our remem-
brance the first scholars of the day.


"I'm afraid you'll be late at the party,"
said an old lady to her stylish granddaugh-
ter, who replied, "O you dear grandma,
don't you know that in our fahionable set
nobody ever goes to a party till everybody
gets there?"


24		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			WOMAN'S VOICE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having a few moments for reflection on
the plan of salvation to the human family,
I cannot but acknowledge the goodness of
our Father in heaven, for reserving my spir-
it until the last dispensation that I might
be permitted to be numbered with the
saints of God, and to share with them the
great and glorious blessings which are with-
in our reach, if we will walk humbly before
the Lord, and do what He has required at
our hands. He has promised if we will do
His will, we shall have a knowledge for
ourselves. This, thousands of the Latter-
day Saints can bear testimony to. When I
first came into this church I thought it
strange that the people of the world could
not understand that it was the work of God.
Now I can see the reason is because they
did not bow in obedience to the Gospel,
which is the only way we can gain that as-
surance for ourselves. I think now, this is
why so many fight against one of the most
noble and elevating principles, called Celes-
tial Marriage. I am sure if the world could
understand it in its purity, as the Lord has
revealed it, they would cease to fight
against it. It is too late to doubt whether
it is true; we not only have the testimony
of the ancients that plural marriage was ap-
proved and acknowledged by our Father in
heaven, but we have a living testimony
within ourselves to-day that has been
"bought with a price," and all the world
cannot deceive us, nor Satan either, so long
as we retain the spirit of God, that is as a
lamp to our feet. I have watched it for
many years, and to-day it is dearer to me
than when I first entered into that holy an-
cient order of the Gospel. All the world
might try to convince me I am misled, but
I should know for myself that the princi-
ple is right and approved of by God. When
a man or woman is guided by the spirit of
God, they can understand for themselves
that this principle is true. My own expe-
rience has taught me more than all the
world beside could do, and who can take it
from me? If I do my Father's will who is
in heaven, no one can. Where is the man
or woman that can make us unhappy if we
do right. We are beyond their reach.
When we suffer ourselves to feel unhappy,
we are yielding to evil influences, and we
forget ourselves. The sooner we retrace our
steps the better it is for us; the adversary
is always ready at any time to take advan-
tage of our weaknesses, but he cannot en-
ter our hearts or homes if we are always on
our guard. The Lord will never forsake us
if we do not grieve His holy spirit. When
we are tempted let us go to our Heavenly
Father and tell Him our troubles, He is the
best comforter. He will never take advan-
tage of our weaknesses, but will  help and
comfort us. Never trust too much to the
arm of flesh for it is mortal.
	I am proud to bear the name of a Latter-
day Saint. It matters not what the world
may think of me, I know in whom I have
believed, and I am not afraid to say to-day
that the more the world try to persecute
and slander us, that much faster the king-
dom of God will grow. I know this, judg-
ing the present by the past. I have watch-
ed it for thirty-six years and never seen it
fall. While enemies are heaping up false-
hoods against the authorities of this Church,
the men whom God has appointed to lead
this people, they are bringing the withering
powers of the Almighty upon their own
heads. The Lord has said "Hurt not the
Lord's anointed, and do my holy ones no

[Column 2]
harm." How thankful we as Latter-day
Saints ought to be to know that we are
worthy to be called the children of God. Let
us be up and doing, regardless of the ene-
mies of truth; they have got their work to
do and so have we.
	Let us, one and all, my sisters, do all in
our power to carry out the counsel and in-
structions of our beloved President Brig-
ham Young, and our enemies will have but
very little power over us, only to spread
the truth to the nations of the earth. The
kingdom of God is established on the earth
and in the hearts of the Latter-day Saints,
and no power beneath the heavens can stay
its progress. Sisters there is nothing for us
to fear, come life or come death; if we live
day by day in the line of our duty to the
end of onr race, eternal life is sure for us in
the kingdom of God.
					SARAH LAYTON.
	Kaysville, June 8th, 1877.


A young girl "who knows" says that "be-
tween times in the farm work and of eve-
nings the boys went hunting, fishing, coast-
ing, swimming, skating, etc.; the girls
helped mother make, mend, and keep clean
the boys' clothes, and braided palm-leaf
hats. It is not the equally hard study that
causes the girl's health to give way: but 
the extra hard chance she has to get at the
study, and the extra hard work that ac-
companies the study. Boys work equally 
hard at their studies, but do not spend their
evenings and an hour before and after each
meal helping an overhurdened father.
Therein lies the difference."—Ex.


[Column 1]
		COL. J. REESE
Is Sole Agent f[-] Utah, for the Almond Pow-
				der Toilet Soap.
	Finely powdered and put up in glass bottles, with per-
forat[-]d tops. As a [-]oilet article, it is excellent; it clean-
ses and pu[-]ifies [-]he skin.
	For sale, wholesale and retail, corner First South and
Second West Street, Fourteenth Ward.

 PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
					SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
				LADIES' JACKETS,
					STOCKINGS, YARNS,
						SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
							LATEST STYLES OF
								FANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men's Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter, Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vine-
gar, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spool Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue.
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of JAMAICA GINGER
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore
	Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands, Sole
		Leather and other Trunks, G[--]ts' Fine
			Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
				Table Salt, Band Boxes and
						Dixie Cotton.

[Column 2]
DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.

		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
	Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
		and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
			Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium. Do not forget
					17, East Temple Street.
				TEMPLE OF FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a
call.

	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

	TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
		FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
	DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
