VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1877	No. 9.


For the EXPONENT.
A BIRTHDAY OFFERING.

Through the forest of thought I've been roaming
	Piercing deep through its inmost recess,
If perchance I might cull from her treasures.
	A bright garland—the fairest and best,
Unfaltering I've pressed through the thicket,
	Never once heeding brier or thorn,
That stood by as a vanguard or picket,
	Thus to turn my poor efforts to scorn.

I have peered into dark cell and grotto,
	Traversed yawning ravines and deep glade,
I have crossed over wild roaring torrent,
	Wandered far in the thick jungle's shade.
And I paused near the brink of a river
	Flowing onward through time's golden sands,
Murmuring of the mystic forever,
	That awaiteth the pure of all lands.

I have mused over moss-covered emblems;
	As they whispered of glory long past,
Of their broad spreading branches and tendrils
	[---] had withered and chilled in his grasp
I gathered a pearl from the [---]
	That now cover a stately old elm,
And I've borne it 'mid trials and crosses,
	As a charm for thy bosom dear Em.

It will tell thee youth's morning is fleeting,
	Like the dew of the flower its day,
To seek ever true knowledge and wisdom
	That will live when all else pass away.
A bright diamond of truth I have woven.
	In a wreath of fair laurel and bay,
Let it grace thy pure brow lovely maiden,
	To the end of life's devious way.

Like the rainbow its light shall illumine,
	Thy pathway through this vale of tears,
Guide thee safe to that brighter dominion
	Where they never more count up the years.
I have come with my offering dear Emma,
	O do not now reject it I pray!
Keep it sacred and wear it forever;
	In memoriam of thy birthday.

S. L. City, Sept. 10, 1877.


[Column 1]

EPISTLE

OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES AND COUNSEL- 
ORS TO THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF
LATTER-DAY SAINTS IN ALL THE WORLD.

BELOVED SAINTS:

	A time of mourning has fallen upon
Zion, and it is with feelings of profound
sadness that we address this epistle unto
you. Our beloved, brother, guide and
counselor, our prophet, seer and revelator,
President Brigham Young, has been taken
from our midst by death. Surrounded by
his family and friends, and in his own
house and in the city of which, under the
Lord, he was the founder, his spirit peace-
fully passed from this mortal existence in-
to that state of rest prepared for the right-
eous. Though harassed and bitterly per-
secuted, especially of late years, his ene-
mies were not permitted to take his life.
He has not been called by the Lord to die a
martyr's death; yet his entire life has
proved his willingness to endure even that
ordeal, if it had been the good pleasure of
the Lord to require it of him. He has
shrunk from no issue, and has been willing
to risk liberty and life at the call of duty,
even when his friends trembled for his
safety.
	At a ripe old age, in the quiet of his own

[Column 2]

home, he has passed to his rest. This is a 
consolation to us who survive him. Noth-
ing that has occurred to us since we came
to th[---]
the Saints like this sad event. He not only
has been the President of the Church, but
a father to the people. Their welfare and
prosperity, their preservation from evil,
and their advancement in everything holy
and pure has always been the uppermost
thought and desire of his heart. In his 
love for and devotion to the work of God
he has never wavered. During the thirty-
three years that he has presided over the
Church, since the martyrdom of the Proph-
et Joseph, his knees have never trembled,
his hands have never shook; he has never
faltered or qualied. However threatening
the surroundings or prospects may have
been, he has never been dismayed; but at
those times he has exhibited such serene
confidence and faith, and uttered such
words of encouragement, as to comfort and
[---] all the people and to call forth their
love [---]
not only blessed him with [---]
dowed him with great wisdom. His coun-
sels, when obeyed, have been attended
with salvation, and as an organizer and ad-
ministrator he has no superior. Of this the
people of the entire church are his witness-
es, and our Territory, as well as the many
settlements in the adjacent Territories are
his monuments. He always had the coun-
sel of the Lord and none ever sought it
from him in vain.
	Beloved Saints: We have been greatly
favored of the Lord in being permitted to
live in this dispensation and in having
been led by two such men as the prophets
Joseph and Brigham. Of Joseph, the
prophet and seer of the Lord, it has been
truthfully said, that at his death, he had
done more (save Jesus only,) for the devel-
opment of the principles of life and salva-
tion of men in this world, in the space of
time in which he was on earth than my
other man that ever lived upon it. The
prophet Brigham has proved himself wor-
thy to be his successor.
	His labors the Lord has crowned with
the most remarkable success, his words he
has honored and fulfilled, and those who
have obeyed his counsel he has blessed and
upheld. The time will yet come when his
presidency over the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints will be pointed to as an
epoch of wonderful events. In the provi-
dence of the Lord, however, he has been
taken from us. Great efforts in prayer have
been made, and constant administration of
the gospel ordinance for the sick, to still
keep him here; but the Lord has ordered
otherwise. We must here acknowledge 
that it is the Lord to whom he was indebt-
ed for the wisdom and intelligence display-
ed by him. The bestowal of these gifts
manifests the care and supervision which
He exercises over His people; for these
blessings are all the gift of God, and all em-
anate from Him. The Prophets Joseph
Smith and Brigham Young have been, and
now are, in His hands as His instruments
in doing His work, and so are we. We
have the same consolation, however, in this 
our time of grief and deep affliction, that

[Column 3]

the Prophet Brigham had upon hearing of
the cruel martyrdom of the prophets Joseph
and Hyrum—"the keys of the [---]
[---] Joseph
may be martyred, Brigham may die so far
as this life may be concerned; but our Heav-
enly Father still lives, the holy priesthood
and apostleship, which He restored to the
earth, still remain to guide and govern,
and to administer ordinances to the Church
which He has established. Our beloved
brother Brigham Young has gone to join
the prophet Joseph and the host of the holy
and the pure who are behind the vail; but
we do not therefore lose the benefit of his
labors. He is now in a position to do more
for that work which he loved so well, and
for which he labored so ardently, than he
could possibly do in the flesh; and that
work will roll onward with Increased power
and accelerated speed.
	The President of the Church having
been taken from us by death, the Church is
now placed in the same position as it was at
the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph-
of the First Presidency to the [---]
ties, the Prophet Joseph said (Millennial
Star, Vol. XV., page 595), "the Twelve are
not subject to any other than the First
Presidency, viz: myself, Sydney Rigdon,
and Frederick G. Williams, who are now
my counselors (and where I am not there is
no First Presidency over the Twelve)" Af-
ter the death of the prophet Joseph, Presi-
dent Young, in speaking to the Saints,
said: "For the first time in the kingdom
of God, the Twelve Apostles of the Lamb,
chosen by revelation, in the last dispensa-
tion of the gospel for the winding up scene,
present themselves before the Saints to
stand in their lot according to appoint-
ment."
	"Here are the Twelve appointed by the
finger of God, who hold the keys of the
priesthood and the authority to set in or-
der and regulate the church in all the
world. Here is Elder Amasa Lyman and
Elder Sydney Rigdon; they were counsel-
ors in the First Presidency, and they are
counselors to the Twelve still, if they keep
their places; but if either wish to act as
'spokesman' for the Prophet Joseph, he
must go behind the vail where Joseph is."
—Times and Seasons, Vol. 5, page 637.
	Once more the necessity for the Twelve
Apostles to step forward and take the Pres-
idency of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter day Saints has arisen. The same
spirit which rested upon the prophet Jos-
eph before his martyrdom, in instructing
the Twelve Apostles as to their duties and
responsibilities and the necessity of their
bearing off the kingdom, has rested upon
the Prophet Brigham Young during this
past spring and summer. He released all
the Twelve who were presiding over 
Stakes, from those duties, selected others
 to fill those positions,and taught the Church
that the Twelve Apostles were called by
their priesthood to act in a wider and more
extended sphere than to be presidents of
stakes. All his teachings and counsels
indicated that there would be an increase
of responsibility and jurisdiction resting
upon them, and that they would be held to


[Column 1]
a stricter accountability than they had
been. We can now understand and at-
tach an importance and significance to
these teachings and counsels which we
could not at the time they were given.
	On Tuesday, September 4th, the two
counselors of President Young and ten of
the Twelve Apostles,—two of the Twelve,
Brothers Orson Pratt and Joseph F. Smith,
being absent in England,—held a meeting
contrite and saddened hearts we earnestly
sought to learn His mind and will concern-
ing us and His Church. The Lord blessed
us with a spirit of union and condescended
to reveal to us what steps we should take,
Elder John Taylor, the senior Apostle, and
who has acted as the President of the
Twelve, was unanimously sustained in that
position. With the same unanimity also
it was voted that the quorum of the Twelve
Apostles is the presiding quorum and au-
thority in the Church.
	These things are so plainly indicated by
the revelations and in the past history of
the Church that they could not be ignored,
either by the Twelve Apostles or by the
President's Counselors. Hence, again, as
a similar course was adopted on the death
of the Prophet Joseph, the two Counselors
of President Young—Presidents John W.
Young and Daniel H. Wells—were unani-
mously sustained as one with, counselors
to and associated in [---] [---] the Twelve 
Apostles.
	To facilitate the transaction of business
it was voted unanimously that for the pres-
ent, President John Taylor be assisted by
Brothers John W. Young, Daniel H. Wells,
and George Q. Cannon in attending to busi
ness connected with the Temples, the pub
lic works, and other church affairs of a fi-
nancial character.
	Inquiries have arisen respecting the
brethren who have been employed by the
various quorums to work ou the Temple.
Upon this subject we desire to say that it
is not intended in making the change that
has been suggested—for the pay of the
brethren to come through the Bishops in-
stead of the quorums—to release those who
have subscribed through the quorums; but
only to put it in another shape. It is ex-
pected that the members of the quorums
will still continue to do what they have
hitherto done; but the pay given will
be made to the Bishops of their respective
Wards, who should, as early as possible, as-
certain from the various members of quo-
rnms in their Wards that which each one
has been paying, and collect the same, so
that they may be prepared by this means
to meet the payments as they come due.
We hope that instead of slackening in our
efforts to push the Temples forward, there
will be an increase of zeal and energy on
the part of all, from the Apostles, through
all the ranks of the priesthood to the young-
est member of the Church.
	The Bishops in all the Stakes of Zion
should make arrangements to have a meet-
ing of the lesser priesthood in their Wards
once every week. These meetings they
should attend personally with their coun-
selors, so as to give necessary instruction,
and also that they may learn the true con-
dition of the flock over which they are
called to preside. At 11 o'clock a. m. on
the first Saturday in every month there
should be held in every Stake a general
priesthood meeting of all the officers of the
church. These meetings should be held at
the place in each Stake most convenient for
this purpose; and full reports of the condi-
tion of the various Wards should be made

[Column 2]
to these meetings by the Bishops. In-
struction and counsel can then be given
that will have the effect to produce concert
of action in all matters of a public charac-
ter in the different Stakes, and that will
result in the spread of the principles of the
gospel among the people and the more per-
fect development of the Church.
	That there may be a correct understand-
ing among all the Stakes of Zion respect-
ing the time for holding the quarterly con-
[illegible line]
Presidents be enabled to make preparations
therefor, we have deemed it best to make
the following appointments for the confer-
ences for the next half year. It will be
seen that in most instances they will be
held in two Stakes upon the same days.
This is unavoidable, in consequence of the
great number of Stakes.
	Salt Lake Stake, Oct. 6, 1877—Jan. 5 and
		6, 1878.
	Davis and Utah Stakes, Oct. 13 and 14
		1877—Jan 12 and 10, 1878.
	Weber and Juab Stakes, Oct. 20, and 21,
		1877—Jan. 19 and 20, 1878.
	Tooele and Box Elder Stakes Oct. 27 and
		28, 1877—Jan. 26 and 27, 1878.
	Wasatch and Cache Stakes, Nov. 3, and
		4, 1877—Feb. 2 and 3, 1878.
	Summit and Bear Lake Stakes, Nov. 10
		and 11, 1877—Feb. 9 and 10, 1878.
	Morgan and [---] Stakes,  Nov. 17 and
		18, 1877—Feb 16 and 17, 1878.
	Sevier and Millard Stakes, Nov. 24 and
		25, 1877—Feb. 23 and 24, 1878.
	Panguitch and Beaver Stakes, Dec. 1 and 
		2, 1877—March 2 and 3, 1878.
	Kanab and Iron Stakes, Dec. 8 and 9,
		1877—March 9 and 10, 1878,
	St. George Stake, Dec. 15 and 16, 1877
		—March 16 and 17, 1878.
	As the time for holding our General
Semi Annual Conference is approaching, it
is very desirable that complete reports be
prepared by those officers whose duty it is
to make reports. The circular, issued re-
cently by the First Presidency, explains
the necessity for and character of these re-
ports. Blank forms have also been prepar-
ed, and have been published by the Deser-
et News, for reports of Bishops and Presi-
dents of Stakes. Immediate steps should
be taken by the Bishops of the various
Wards and by others who are presiding
over branches, to obtain full reports upon
all the points included in the blank forms.
These when completed should be sent to
the Presidents of Stakes, who should, from
these reports, draw up their reports, includ-
ing as complete a financial exhibit as prac-
ticable, and either forward, or bring them
to the Conference in this city. Before Pres-
ident Young's sickness, he arranged for the
monthly Priesthood meeting of the Salt Lake
Stake of Zion, to be held in the New Tab-
ernacle on Thursday, the 4th of October.
This will be a general meeting, and will be
held at 10 o'clock a.m. All the Priesthood
and Saints are invited to attend that meet-
ing, also those held in the afternoon of
that day, and the next day, Friday the 5th,
preparatory to the General Semi-annual
Conference, which will commence on Sat-
urday, the 6th of October.
	And now, brethren and sisters, we ex-
hort you to arouse yourselves and to seek
unto the Lord in fervent faith and prayer.
We know that our Father in heaven is a
God of revelation. He is ready and will-
ing to pour out His blessings and gifts up-
on those who seek unto Him for them.
We need them as individuals and as a peo-
ple to qualify us for the duties which de-
volve upon us. We should remember and
carry into practical effect the counsels and

[Column 3]
instructions we have so liberally received
from our departed President. He has gone
from us; but the flock is not left without a
shepherd. Latter-day Saints should so
live that they may know the voice of the
true shepherd, and not be deceived by pre-
tenders. This is the privilege of every
member of the Church, and the Latter-day
Saint who does not live so as to have the
revelations of Jesus constantly with him,
stands in great danger of being deceived
and falling away. We have before us the
building up and redeeming of Zion. This
can only be done by the aid of the Lord.
All the signs which the Lord promised to
send in the last days are making their ap-
pearance. They show that the day of the
Lord is near. A great work has got to be
done, and there is but little time in which
to accomplish it; great diligence is, there-
fore, required. Let us, then, go to with
our might and build the Temples of the 
Most High and accomplish every other la-
bor devolving upon us. Let us not slacken
our diligence or give way to doubt, unbe-
lief or hardness of heart; but be strong in
the Lord, and cry unto Him unceasingly to
give us the power to build up His Zion on
the earth and to help establish a reign of
righteousness, peace and truth.
	Our prayers are offered [---] in be-
[---] all the officers and Saints composing
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day
Saints, that the Lord will pour out upon
them the spirit of consolation and that He
will endow them with the revelations of
the Lord Jesus so bountifully that every
one will understand his duty and be prompt
in the fulfillment thereof. Let us build
each other up in the most holy faith, culti-
vating love, meekness and lowliness of
heart, charity, patience and long-suffering,
bearing with each other's faults, and yet
avoiding the very appearance of evil, so
that others, seeing our good works, may be
led to glorify God.
	We remain your brethren in the new
and everlasting covenant,
			JOHN TAYLOR,
			WILFORD WOODRUFF,
			ORSON HYDE,
			CHARLES C. RICH,
			LORENZO SNOW,
			ERASTUS SNOW,
			FRANKLIN D. RICHARDS,
			GEORGE Q. CANNON,
			BRIGHAM YOUNG,
			ALBERT CARRINGTON,
			JOHN W. YOUNG,
			DANIEL H. WELLS.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

	PANGUITCH, IRON Co., Sept. 14th 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Wishing to represent the Relief Society
of this place, I make the following report:
During the past year the Society have
erected a commodious brick building for
their use, which we hope to have finished
this present fall. Up to this date the build-
ing has cost some twelve hundred dollars.
The Society have been greatly assisted by
the liberal donations of the brethren in the
erection of this house. Our Society has
donated at different times, to the build-
ing and finishing of the St. George Temple;
while the necessities of the poor have not
been forgotten.
	Our Society is conducted under the Pres-
idency of Mrs. Myra Henrie, assisted by
Mrs. Phebe M. Sevey and Mrs. Margaret J.
Kartchner, as Counselors.
	MISS MARY B. HEYWOOD,
		Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE BABY.

What is all this noise about?
	The house is full of joy to-day;
Hear the laugh and call ring out,
	They cannot hear a word I say;
I cannot read, or think [---]
	In all this racket full of fun;
I really wish that it were night,
	And they were sleepy, every one.

I don’t know what I want to do,
	For hard as I may try to think; 
The sound of those boot heels goes through
	My ears so sharp, it makes me wink.
And I know just how the hair I curled
	So silken smooth an hour ago,
For a rosy-cheeked, dear little girl,
	Is tossing, flying high and low.

And the baby's as wild as either one,
	The darling little household prince!
O’er racket of chairs that fall as they run,
	He shrieks with Joy: I fairly wince,
Why! “the baby is walking alone to-day,"
	The first time in his little life:
Ah! the thought near takes my breath away,
	And the happy words cut like a knife.

“O! aint you proud ma'am?" Susan asks,
	"And how surprised pa'pa will be!"
And she forgets her crowding tasks,
	And gives him kisses two and three.
Proud? when his first steps alone,
	Open my eyes to the truth, heart sore;
He out of his babyhood has grown,
	And needs my leading hand no more.

And it seems as though the baby boy
	I have loved so silently and well;
Must have been a dream-child, and the joy,
	The year has passed, an unbroken spell;
And now, instead of a babe in my arms,
	Starting in sleep when I lay him down;
My heart is thrilled with swift alarms;
	While steady and sure, he runs around.

O my boy! to think that you,
	Would choose to slide from your mother's
		kneee;
Would rather shout with those tom boys two,
	Than here in her loving arms to be.
When did you change you butter-fly,
	From a cradled thing to a thing of flight?
No, no, I cannot laugh while I
	Look on the new and doubtful sight.

The wide earth luring thee to go;
	Temptations smile; ambition’s call;
And thou a man! life's ways must know,
	Must meet the lessons one and all
And I have fleen thy brightest love!
	How weak alas! thy mother's arms?
They cannot keep thee. Lord above,
	Lead Thou my darling safe from harm.

AGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

		BLOOMINGTON, Sept. 11th, 1877.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	Although feeling very busy and not hav-
ing much time, still I am going to steal
time enough to scribble a few words to you
aud the many readers of the EXPONENT.
You have often asked me to write a descrip-
tive letter of the scenery and views in and
around this Bear Lake Country. I have
hesitated to do so, but only on account of
my inability. However I shall make a
bold attempt, and beg you to remember my
verdancy and inexperience, and therefore
excuse all failures.
	The first time I came here, we went by
train to Franklin, and came "over the moun-
tain." We traveled north and northeast
until arriving at the mountain, when we
commenced to go east and southeast. As
we passed along from Franklin the eye was
feasted with rolling, sweeping hills rising
one after and above another in romantic
and picturesque fashion, their sides covered
with wavy, crispy grass; and in the valleys
beautiful rich meadows swaying and danc-
ing, with the breeze singing and sighing in
the truant leaves. The hills gradually rise

[Column 2]
and rise, until behold, they are mountains,
and you witness that novelty in this coun-
try, a canon of soft sloping mountains,
their outlines gracefully curving and droop-
ing against the clear autumn sky lik[---]
[---] Hebe. This con-
tinues till at last you are at the foot of the
mountain dugway, which is two or three
miles in length. Up you start on a slow
walk, but as you gradually ascend you wish
yourself a bird with power to fly up this
long tedious road. Plodding wearily along,
my companion called me to halt, and turn
around and gaze on the scene below. With
a cry of delight I fastened my rapt eyes
on the grand panorama stretched below me,
and at once felt amply repaid for all weari-
ness. Oh, the loveliness of nature's pavil-
ions! Aunt Em, could you have been 
[---] me then, your delight like
mine would have been too deep for words.
Mountain after mountain, hill after hill,
vale after vale stetched out in endless beau-
ty; while here and there silver streams
rushed down through canons and valleys.
The whole country is one grand sweeping
mass of smooth mountains and hills. And
way off in the distance a chain of high,
frowning mountains stand like sentinels
over a group of rambling youths and maid-
ens. At last we reach the top and begin to
descend; now the whole character of the
scenery is changed. The road trails along
through canons that bring vividly to the
mind stories and legends of the ancient
Norse country, with spicy, piny woods and
wild, rugged mountains towering far above
you, and clear to the tops just one black
mass of pine forests. The woody smell is
fragrant and pleasant. Through the canon
you twist and turn, now pulling up steep
hills, now tearing down on the other side.
I was forcibly reminded of a little poem I
had read somewhere, about the wind, when
first allowed to roam the earth, it tried
every species of tree to find a home, but
was dissatisfied until it finally reached the
beautifnl pine. Here it resolved to make
its abode. The sweet, wailing sound issu-
ing from these trees is soothing and at
times mournful. While riding along, anon
gazing at one lone tree, then peering into
the dark recesses of impenetrable forests,
the thought came up in my mind, ah, well,
if the oak with its sturdy, burly shape is
king of the forest, is not the tall, stately,
beautiful pine its royal consort? At a sud-
den turn in the road we beheld a powerful
black bear, lazily wending its way across
the road. We had ample time to mark its
different points, ere his bearship was lost to
view in the surrounding trees. You do
not leave the canon until about four miles
from Liberty, which is the first settlement
you reach in Bear Lake Valley. Now don't
get "turned round" as I did and fancy you
came in at the south end of the valley and
are travelling north, for the case is exactly
reversed. As you proceed through the
valley, you notice its rolling character in
this part. Up and down, up and down,
without any noticeable cessation. As you
pass through Paris, your eye is painfully
aware of the fact that there are no trees.
Nothing to relieve the monotony of mud
roofs and log houses. Paris seems to be a 
thriving little place, and some few brick
houses are rearing their modest heads.
Along the road you occasionally see spark-
ling, livid streams of water, dashing, splash-
ing on their way, their banks generally
overgrown with willows. This place is just
about two miles from Paris. The principal
thought I remember of being in my mind
on arriving here was, how Dame Nature

[Column 3]
ever contrived to get so many endless hills
in so small a space.
			Yours as ever,
							S[---]


EXTRACTS FROM LETTERS OF EL-
DER JOSEPH F. SMITH, TO HIS
FAMILY.

	I hasten to drop you a few lines
before leaving for Leeds this afternoon.
Saturday has come again, and with it comes
our general mail day, which gives us plenty
to busy ourselves with until evening.
	We can only imperfectly surmise the
anxiety and grief into which all the Saints
are plunged by the sudden and, to us, most
unexpected demise of President Young.
We had not so much as heard a syllable of
his sickness, and having watched his labors	
through the settlements, as published in
the "News," we supposed he was enjoying
remarkable health and vigor. It is true
that on the night of the 21st and 22d of
August, which seems to be about the time
he was taken with his last illness, Brother
Pratt had a remarkable dream about the
President, which he told us on the morning
of the 22d. He saw him (Pres. Young)
riding in his carriage, when suddenly his 
horses took a fright and dashed down a
steep bank into a deep river, or stream of
water, rushed through the stream and up
the abrupt and seemingly impassable de-
clivity on the other side. We all decided,
if the dream indicated anything, it meant
some sudden difficulty or trouble through
which the President would have to pass.
For several days previous to getting the
sad news, I had an impression that some
great event was about to happen.
	Day before yesterday, Aug. 30th, we re-
ceived the melancholy intelligence of the 
death of President Young at one minute
past four p. m. the day previous. Before
night (Aug. 30,) all the papers of this coun-
try had the account of his death in them;
some of them with comments, but mostly
containing the simple telegraphic news of
his death.
	Two years ago to-day the same sad news
of the death of President George A. Smith
flashed over the wires to the nations of the
earth; and on the day after his death I re-
ceived the news in the same manner as it 
now came of the demise of President
Young. We were all struck, I may say
stunned with amazement and grief at the
most unexpected, sad news. Yet there is
consolation in the reflection that, unlike his
predecessor, the Prophet Joseph Smith, he
died not by violence in the midst of ene-
mies, but in peace in the midst of his
family, and in the midst of his friends.
	And now may the spirit of peace and un-
broken union brood over the councils of the
Priesthood and upon the assemblies of all
Israel. The spirit of peace abides with us,
for we know the Lord God Omnipotent
reigneth, and He is the master-builder of
His own House. May God bless you all, is 
my earnest prayer.


MRS. Elizabeth Thompson has mrde an
appeal to the thinking people of America,
by offering prizes for the best article on the
"Labor Question" in its widest scope. They
were to be sent to the Library Table: New
York, before the first of October,


MISS ROSE Eytinge will appear in the
most prominent New England lecture
courses the coming season.


68		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $[-].00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, OCT. 1, 1877.


WOMAN'S POSITION IN UTAH.

HERE in these valleys, hemmed in from the
discordant elements of the outside world by the
stupendous, mountains that tower to such sub-
lime heights, are a race of women, who surpass
in their heroism, in their endurance, and in
conscious independence of character any, we
believe, in the known world. The union of
heart and soul which characterizes them as a
class; is one of the most strengthening influ-
encess which could be brought to bear in mak-
ing them heroic in the truest sense of the term.
Women vote in Utah! Yes they do, conscien-
tiously and independently, for they have been
taught the principles of action which lead
them into legitimate channels of true indepen-
dence. Mormonism begins at the very founda-
tion of the superstructure, and teaches how to
build a solid basis on which to erect the finest
edifice of character the human mind is capaple
of rearing.
	The world at large do not understand how to
lay the bed-rock which will make the fabric
they build so elaborately, strong and lasting.
They build up splendid theories, they sound
well, they please the fancy and they pass in
the minds of many for the true and genuine
article; but to the eye and heart able to discern
error, they are only a myth, a phantom, soon to
pass away and be replaced by something new
and more startling, or attractive. Some of
them they revise and patch up and remodel,
but after all, they are only added to, and built
on, and made more likely to fall by the heavy
material put on to ornament, which being too
heavy a strain upon the first foundation makes
it crumble into a heap of ruins all the sooner.
But when truth is the foundation, and every
rock used in the building is composed of true
principle, and joined together with honesty
and integrity, and ornamented with true chari-
ty "after the similitude of a palace," such a
structure would be likely to stand some perilous
storms, and withstand the buffetings of the
tempest, especially when God is the founder
and builder thereof. The women here have a
voice through the press, which gives them a
channel of expression and adds much to their
strength as a class, and enables them to let each
other and the world know what is being done
in helping to prepare for a wider field of useful-
ness, and to hold with a firmer hand their posi-
tion as citizens.
The women of the world wonder how Woman's
Suffrage was so easily obtained in this Territory.
They cannot comprehend that God was in it.
If the women of Utah realized their privileges
they would know they were the most favored
of all their sex. They have the noblest incen-
tives to action, the broadest scope in which to
labor, and, if they are wise, they will hold the
ballot sacred as the gift of God to them and use
it judiciously.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

THE laying of the corner-stones of the Temple
				[---] County Stake took place
in Logan, Sept. 17, at 12 o'clock m. President
John Taylor and others of the Quorum of the
Twelve Apostles, Counselor D. H. Wells, Pres-
idents of Seventies, Bishopric, Salt Lake Stake
of Zion, and other organizations, had gone
thither to be present on that grand occasion.
The local authorities, and those of Weber
Stake, with thousands of people, assembled to
witness the solemn and imposing ceremonies.
We will devote some space to the particulars
in our next issue.

THE Semi-Annual Conference is very near, and
the general feeling seeems to be that it will be
one of the most important [---] in the
history of the Church. Elders Orson Pratt
and Joseph F. Smith arrived at home on the
evening of Sept. 27. No doubt the Conference
will be largely attended, and the teachings of a
nature to inspire the people to renewed dili-
gence in serving God. A spirit of peace and
union prevails throughout the homes and
hearts of the Saints, and the Lord is doubtless
ready to pour out his Spirit in abundance upon
all who are prepared to receive it.

THE laying of the corner-stones for the New
Tabernacle to be erected inside the Temple
wall, near the Old Tabernacle ground, took
place Sept. 28, at 12 o'clock m. There were
present President John Taylor and several of
the Twelve Apostles, Counselor D. H. Wells,
President Angus Cannon and many Seventies,
High Priests and Elders, with thousands of
people. Prayers were offered by Elder George
Q. Cannon and Elder Joseph F. Smith, hymns
were sung, and remarks were made by Presi-
dent John Taylor, who presided at the cere-
mony.

	WE HAD the pleasure of visiting, in compa-
ny with Miss E. R. Snow and Mrs. P. Kimball,
Brighton Ward Relief Society, Sept. 18, on the
occasion of the Annual Meeting of that branch
of the Relief Society. The Society convened at
the residence of the president, Mrs. Mary Ann
Hazon, a comfortable farm cottage, where neat-
ness and order seemed apparent in the sur-
roundings. The meeting was conducted sys-
tematically, and the secretary's report showed
plainly the perseverence under difficulties of
the good sisters of that district. They had a
very praiseworthy report of their proceedings
during the year.

	THE ANNUAL Meeting of the First Ward Re-
trenchment Association was held in the 1st
Ward schoolhouse, Sept. 26. There was a very
full attendance, and the members of the Asso-
ciation had a bountiful dinner prepared for in-
vited guests, at the house of Mrs. Mary W.
Musser. Elder Woodruff of the Quorum of
the Twelve was present; also some other breth-
ren, including the Bishop. Mrs. Sarah M.
Graham, President of the Young Ladies' Asso-
ciation, presided with dignity. After usual
exercises, minutes, &c, Mrs. Zina D. Young,
Mrs. B. W. Smith, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs. Zina
Williams, Mrs. E. Thomas, Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. W. East, Mrs. M. B. Young, Mrs. E. S.
Barney and Mrs. Phebe Woodruff each made
a few remarks calculated to inspire those pres-
ent with zeal and earnestness in the sphere of
woman's usefulness in the path that leads to
everlasting life. Miss E. R. Snow made some
statements in regard to the Woman's Commis-
sion House and explained the circumstances
which necessitated the change that had been
made. She also stated to the meeting that it
had seemed to be the wish of President Brig-
ham Young that the young ladies should

[Column 2]
change the name of their organizations from
Retrenchment to Mutual Improvement. Presi-
dent Sarah Graham proposed making the
change suggested, and it was moved, seconded
[---]sly carried.
	Elder W. Woodruff spoke earnestly upon
the great work of Temples and administration
for the living and dead; related some of his ex-
periences and labor in the St. George Temple,
and among the people in that vicinity; also
touched upon many other glorious and inspir-
ing themes. Elder Joseph E. Taylor of the
presidency of this Stake of Zion made some
very concise and pithy remarks upon the work
of women, of mothers in Israel, the laws of
life and health, and other things of equal im-
portance.

	A FEW of the sisters recently visited Grants-
ville, to be present at the Annual Meeting of
the Relief Society, and also to meet with the
Young Ladies' Association. Leaving Salt Lake
City in the Western Railway train at 7 o'clock
a. m., Sept. 13, we had a pleasant ride on the
cars, and were met at the Half Way House by
two of the good sisters of Grantsville with a
span of horses and wagonette, and with a
good team, smooth roads and a skillful driver
we had an agreeable ride, and at Bishop Ed.
ward Hunter's the party of us were warmly
welcomed and partook of a bountiful repast
hospitably served. The Society convened in
the meeting house, a very neat looking, sub-
stantial edifice, finished in good taste, and
filled with happy faces in expectation of a good
time. An organ well played and a well-trained
choir with melodious voices added greatly to
the enjoyment of the meeting. President
Mary Ann Hunter conducted the meeting in a
most happy manner, and the report read by
the secretary, Mrs. M. A. House, showed not
only industry, energy and benevolence but
their ability to manage business affairs system-
atically. After the sisters had spoken upon the
subjects relating to woman's labors in the vine-
yard of the Lord, the many departments of
usefulness which come within her sphere at
home and among the saints in assisting to bear
the burden of establishing the kingdom of
God, President Hunter invited the brethren
present to address the meeting. Bishop Row-
berry, Br. Rydalch, Bishop Hunter and Br.
Reich each made some excellent remarks, en-
couraging the sisters to persevere, and mani-
festing a deep interest in all their labors.
	The next morning, Sept. 14, at ten o'clock a.
m., the Young Ladies' Association met at the
same place. The house was well filled and a
good spirit seemed to pervade the assembly.
The sisters spoke upon the object of these so-
cieties, the necessity of home industries, and
the topics of general interest at the present
time. Grantsville is a flourishing town with
comfortable looking homes: the farms, orchards
and gardens are particularly thriving, and
prosperity seems to have crowned their indus-
try. The visit was altogether an enjoyable
and we sincerely trust a profitable one.

	DR. ROMANIA B. Pratt has returned from
the East. She has received her diploma from
the Woman's Medical College, Philadelphia,
and has fully prepared herself with the neces-
sary instruments and apparatus to commence
the practice of her profession as physician and
surgeon. Her office is now at her residence in
the 12th Ward of this city, on Theatre street,
east of Main Street. Dr. Pratt has spent four
years in studying, and since she graduated
from Philadelphia has been passing some time
at other institutions of the kind, making spe-
cialities of the water-cure and obstetrics. This
lady is expected to give lectures to the medi-


[Column 1]

cal class of ladies in this city. The lectures for
the present will be held as before in this office
every Wednesday at four o'clock p. m. We
sincerely hope the class will be punctual in 
their attendance.
	Wednesday, Sept. 26, Office EXPONENT: Class
met pursuant to adjournment, with a good at-
tendance and several visitors. Prayer by Mrs.
P. Woodruff. Mrs. Zina D. Young made a
few appropriate remarks, and tendered her res-
ignation in favor of Dr. Pratt, who expressed
her thanks for confidence, and trusted she had
been inspired with the desire to disseminate
knolwedge among her sex, &c. A suggestion
was made to re-organize the Medical class, and
in connection to re-organize another to prepare
women for professional nurses.
	Dr. Pratt recommended the study of medical
science to ladies who did not expect to become
professional practictioners, as it would better
fit them to discharge the duties and meet the
responsibilities of motherhood, and those of
family superintendence.
	WE ARE truly gratified in being able to an-
nounce through our columns, that the women
of Utah have not only been earnest and ener-
getic in hearkening to the counsel of President
Young in Storing Grain, but have also carried
out his instructions in regard lo building Gran-
aries in two of the wards in this city. Presi-
dent Sarah M. Kimball informs us that the
Fifteenth Ward Relief Society have recent-
ly completed a fireproof granary, built of rock
with tin roof, brick floor underlaid with con-
crete, double door, inside nicely finished bin,
that may be subdivided as circumstances may
require. The dimensions of the building are
20 feet square, holding capacity about one
thousand bushels. Messrs. Morris and Evans
builders, Total expenses $374. 44.
	This granary is located on Society lot in the
rear of Society building. "Deseret News"
stated that it was situated in the rear of the
ward co-op store; the ward co-op store rent of
the Society.
	We are also pleased to notice that a Society
Seminary has been opened in the 15th Ward,
under the general superintendence of Mrs. S.
M. Kimball; Miss M. Ferguson principal teach-
er; Miss Florence Burton in charge of juvenile
department, and Miss Lizzie Kimball in charge
of needlework department.
	The Relief Society of the 17th Ward com-
pleted a granary in July last. The building is
16 x 18 feet, outside rustic, inside boarded, six
feet high filled in with concrete. It is capa-
ble of holding about twelve hundred bushels
of wheat, is built on a solid rock foundation,
and cost $271. 12. According to President
Young's counsel, the Society began storing
grain last fall. President Marinda Hyde made
a call upon the Ward for this purpose, which
resulted in the donating and purchasing of
one hundred and ten bushels, which will make
a beginning for the granary. Upon President
Mrs. Hyde making a call for the building of a
granary, the ward liberally responded by a do-
nation of $100. The granary is built and
paid for and we have cash still on hand with
which to continue purchasing grain the pres-
ent season. The Society has taken a deep in-
terest in this matter, and liberally responded
to the calls made upon them. The building
being of concrete from the ground up six feet-
is considered by experienced farmers as proof
against mice, as they cannot bore through that
material.
	Our Society is doing well and feeling well,
working steadily for the general interest of the
Ward.
	MRS. M. A. HYDE, President,
	MRS. G. A. ALDER, Secretary.

[Column 2]

	NOTES ON "THE WOMEN OF MORMONDON."—
The extracts in the EXPONENT from your
"Women of Mormondom" are "gems of the
first water," diamonds of the genuine lustre.
Its bearing upon the woman question should
recommend it to all who are recognizing that
this is woman's age. That woman must,
therefore, lay the corner-stone of the new civ-
ilization. Women have indeed "sown in
tears," they must reap in gladness. Believe
me yours truly in efforts in the good cause,
		V. BARNHURST.
	Secretary National Suffrage Association,
Philadelphia.
	The book, "Women of Mormondom," came
to hand this afternoon, and to say I am pleased
would not half express my feelings. The first
that attracted my attention on opening the
book was the good [---]
I then glanced over the contents, and there
was so much I wanted to look over that I did
not know what to turn to first; and now feel
as if I had had a visit with many dear friends,
and it was over an hour past my usual supper
time when I lay down my book. I would like
many of my friends to have a copy, and shall
use my influence for them to get one; for I am
satisfied they would feel as I do, that it is three
dollars well spent. Yours truly,
						S. M. DELL.
	Beaver, Sept. 12, 1877.
	I have been perusing with rapt interest and
enthusiasm the pages of the "Women of Mor-
mondom," a copy of which, presented by my
mother to Sister Angie Frink, my amiable
hostess, reached here the same time as your
letter.
	I cannot express my admiration in terms to
equal the extent of my appreciation. I think
Edward Tullidge has carved himself a name
by the inspiration of the Almighty, and writ-
ten it upon the hearts of two hundred thousand
people. His pen was surely an inspired instru-
ment, notwithstanding his present estrange-
ment—merely nominally I believe, and but
temporarily I hope—from the church whose
heroines he has so ably defended and immor-
talized. While reading I shed tears every few
moments either of indignation, pity, or of
pleasure—this was more especially the case
when reading the chapter—for I have not pe-
rused it consecutively—giving an account of
my noble grandfather, Heber C. Kimball, tak-
ing leave of his family on leaving to "open the
door of salvation" in Europe, and the Haun's
Mill horror. My patriotism also swelled high
when reading the speeches of the sisters at the
indignation mass meeting on the Cullom Bill,
etc. Sisters Snow, Young, King and East
surely were imbued with the "spirit of '76" I
have never read anything that moved me so
strongly before.
	The anecdotes and incidents were mostly all
new to me. I wish you would congratulate
Mr. Tullidge for me on his triumph, for indeed
it is one. He is a noble writer, and his style
reminds one, or that is me at least, of a cross
between Victor Hugo and Parley P. Pratt, if
you can agree with my idea. Both of these
are great favorites of your humble servant, and
in my own mind I am paying Mr. T. a compli-
ment, which, however, I unhesitatingly de-
clare him to be fully entitled to. Of course
my meagre ability as a judge must be consid-
ered, but I give my opinion for what it is
worth.	O. F. WHITNEY.
	Elyria, Ohio, Aug, 28, 1877.
	STORING GRAIN BY WOMEN.—We desire to
call the attention of the women of Utah who
are interested in the storing of grain, and espe-
cially all the Societies who have made efforts

[Column 3]

in that direction, to this important subject,
now that the grain is cheap, and the season for
securing products of all kinds for safe-keeping
for the winter is at hand. We are all of us as
yet comparatively unacquainted with the de-
tails of the work we have undertaken, and it
seems to us to be the duty of every woman in-
terested in the welfare of Zion, to inform her-
self in regard to this matter, and seek by all
the means within her reach to render assist-
ance; and that such measures should be taken
as will be of mutual benefit in this enterprise,
and will warrant the desired success. We
think it would be advisable for each Society to
make a full, but concise and comprehensive re-
port of all that has been done during the pres-
ent year in the storing of grain, building gran-
eries, storerooms, or bins, and what plans have
been made for future operarions in that direc-
[---] that the great events
that are about to transpire, will as a natural
consequence result in fearful horrors and famine
is one of the most to be dreaded of all. Inas-
much as Relief Societies are for benevolent pur
poses, this seems to be one of the legitimate
labors of that institutions. Women are full of
sympathy; they shrink from the sight of suf-
fering, and are ever generous and prompt in
relieving it whenever it is in their power to
do so; therefore, inasmuch as God has been so
merciful as to reveal through his servant Brig-
ham, our late lamented and beloved leader, the
Word of the Lord concerning the Storing of
Grain, and to give to the sisters this noble mis-
sion, let each and every one seek, by effort and
influence to carry out his counsel.
	What more noble mission was ever given to
women than that of blessing, comforting, and
ministering to the wants of their fellow crea-
tures? This enterprise of being prepared to ad-
minister relief in a time of need, is something
we should all feel is not only of the most im-
portant character, but one of the most honor-
able positions that woman has ever been called
to officiate in. And if we can secure grain by
our own industry and economy, and carefully
and wisely preserve it until future emergencies
require its prudent disbursement, how much
more satisfied we will be with out exertions,"
than if we waste and squander our means and
our time, and throw away opportunities that
would not only bless us and our children, but
be a source of blessing to all within the limit
of our sphere of usefulness. We trust the sis-
ters will follow out the suggestions given and
be ready to report at the end of the year from
the time of the organization.
		EMMELINE B. WELLS,
	President Central Grain Committee.
S. L. City, Sep. 29, 1877.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		69


A TRIBUTE TO PRESIDENT BRIGHAM
					YOUNG.

	Our President has gone! and there seems to
be a void in nature. The sun's bright rays ap-
pear dim and subdued, for our chief is dead!
Dead to mortal vision. His eloquent tongue is
silent now, that tongue that has so often poured
out blessings to the righteous, and filled the
heart of the sinner with a deadly fear. His
speaking eyes are veiled by lids whose pulse
has stopped their glance so calm and penetrat-
ing, that once sought out the inmost thoughts
of men, and laid bare the secret workings of
their souls, is shrouded by the film of death.
His philanthropic heart is still: it thrills no
more with pity for the suffering, hope for the
erring or love for the obedient. That mighty
brain, which (first inspired by God) was peo-
pled by grand thoughts, is cold, inactive now.
Earth could no longer hold him; the weak


barriers of flesh and blood were powerless to
detain the vigorous captive longer. Ay, death,
thou mayst claim the husk, the shell, but ah!
thou canst not dim that spark of heavenly fire
contained within that vital flame thou canst
not quench forever!
	His mind, no longer trammeled by the clay
of earth, has now more power to blend the
agencies of good, to benefit the loved ones left
behind. His hand lies inert; that hand, whose
index finger always pointed to the right. But
the nervous vigor of the spiritual hand is un-
impaired, and displays increased activity in
succoring the unfortunate ones who have
died without the gospel. 'Tis true that he has
gone, but every faithful heart knows where-
His course here was ever upward, and death
cannot change the tendency of the noble, as-
piring soul. It can but remove the obstacles
which impeded the spirit's grand development.
The head which [---]
[---] down by the
brutal enmity and persecution of ungodly men,
and which ever stood erect with conscious up-
rightness and integrity, is there surrounded by
a halo of glory, whose brightness can never
more be diminished. The intolerance of spe-
lial legislation, prejudiced and evil-minded
judges, and packed juries can no more oppress
his susceptible heart.
	The poignancy of mortal anguish has culmi-
nated in his death. And thou alone, O Lord,
hast power to soothe the acuteness of our grief,
and mitigate the pangs of our distress. We
invoke thy mercy, Omnipotent God, in this
our general bereavement, and pray Thee to
enable us to emulate those virtues which he
possessed in such an eminent degree: and may
the sage counsels with which he so often as-
sailed our stubbornness, be, by his death, deep-
ly engraven on our hearts, that neither time
nor temptation may obliterate them any more
forever; and may the unwavering constancy
and devotedness of his whole life seal upon ou
memories his incomparable worth, and upon
our convictions a certainty of future glory, as a
reward for present faithfulness. We implore
Thee, merciful Father, to shed the enriching
dews of Thy divine meekness upon our way-
ward and intractable hearts, that we may al-
ways, during our lives, and at last, by our
peaceful death, testify of the sublime and per-
fect satisfaction gained in Thy service. And
may our words and works, like those of Thy
servant—and our departed brother, be a psalm
of richest harmony—a monument of everlast-
ing greatness.
	I. H. M.
Morgan City, Sept 4, 1877.


70		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
				REMARKS
OF ELDER ERASTUS SNOW AT THE
	FUNERAL OF PRES'T. BRIGHAM
	YOUNG.

	I parted with President Brigham Young
and a few brethren who were with him, in
Manti, Sanpete County, in July last; since
which time I have been engaged attending
visiting and organizing the southern set-
tlements; and was at the time of his death,
on a visit to our settlements in south-east-
ern Nevada. Through the blessings of God
I have been enabled to return, in company
with Elder Woodruff who has just address-
ed us, in time to be present on this memor-
able occasion.
	I shall say it is a pleasure to meet with
the Saints of God on this occasion! It
might seem paradoxical to use such an ex-
pression, but nevertheless it is true. The
pleasure is not in parting with our honored,
tried and beloved President; but it is in

[Column 2]
meeting with this vast body of Latter-day
Saints and the thousands of Elders of Is-
rael that are assembled on this occasion,
who have come together to testify to one
another, to the world of mankind, and to
the heavens, the love, the esteem. the con-
fidence and the enduring ties which bind
him to us. We meet not merely to condole
with the beloved family and relatives of
the deceased; but we meet to condole with
each other, and to publicly testify of the
faith we have in Christ Jesus and in the
work that we and our President are engag-
ed in, in which he led the van, directing 
our energies and as the mouthpiece of God
imparting words of wisdom, counsel and
guidance unto this people.
	I first became acquainted with Brother
Brigham in the month of July, 1835. It
has been my high privilege to be associat-
ed with him in the labors of the gospel
from that time up to the present, to share
the benefits of his counsels and labors and
to co-operate with him in this great work
in which he has been engaged. It would
be but a small thing to add my testimony,
but which I know would be the testimony
of thousands before me, as well as thou-
sands who are not with us to-day, more es-
pecially of those who have been longest
and most intimately acquainted with him;
a testimony we are all able to bear, namely,
the never-failing devotion of his heart to
the building up of the kingdom of God, to
the honoring of the holy priesthood he re-
ceived, and to the carrying out of the coun-
sels of the Lord and all things revealed
through the Prophet Josoph, as well as all
things which manifested themselves to him
from day to day, pointing to the welfare of
Israel; all the day long he has borne the bur-
dens and responsibilities placed upon him,
which he has honored and magnified to
the end. I believe that all Israel will agree
with Elder Woodruff in the expression,
that if the anxiety and prayers of the
Saints could have preserved him longer in
our midst, he would not have passed away.
But from the time I heard of his sickness,
which was less than twenty-four hours
before his death, I was not able to gather
any testimony in my earnest prayers and
supplications that he would tarry with us;
but on the other hand, a deep seated feel-
ing rested upon me that the Lord was
about to call him behind the vail. And
when the news of his death reached me,
the first and most prominent feeling of my
heart was "Thank God that he has had the
privilege of spending his last moments in
quiet and peace, and in the midst of his
friends, and has gone beyond the reach of
his enemies, who now have no power to an-
noy and persecute him." We are permit-
ted to mourn his loss in peace and quiet.
Peace be upon Israel! Peace be upon his
beloved family! Peace be upon all his be-
loved  brethren and laborers in Zion and
throughout the world. Peace be upon the
multitudes of Israel who this day assemble
throughout the land to testify their faith,
their respect and their love for him, the
congregations of Saints who are at this
hour in every part of the land in the act of
worshipping, and mingling their feelings,
their voices and testimony with ours for
the same common purpose.!
	President Brigham Young needs no mon-
ument to perpetuate his name and character
more than that which he himself by his
own works and virtues has reared in the
hearts of his people. And his testimony
is such as will be in force to all the world,
and his fame in connection with that of the
Prophet Joseph Smith is known among all

[Column 3]
nations, kindreds, tongues and people.
This latter-day work is not the work of a
few brief years in mortality; our priesthood
is everlasting, "without beginning of days
or end of years," the labors of which reach
forward through time and into eternity and
continue forever. Truly did the Lord
speak to John the Revelator when banished
for the Gospel's sake to the Isle of Patmos,
"Blessed are the dead which die in the
Lord, from henceforth: Yea, saith the Spirit
that they may rest from their labors; and
their works do follow them." From the labors
of the flesh do they rest, but their works
continue. Rest is a change, but not a ces-
sation from labor. And the works of every
faithful Elder in Israel after finishing his
labors in the flesh, will go forward into the
future ages of eternity. Brother Brigham
having done a great, a glorious work in
the flesh, now joins his labors with those
of the spirit world and is welcomed back
again from this mission of mortality.
receives the joyous welcome of the Father
and the Son and the greetings of the apos-
tles and prophets, of Joseph and his breth-
ren who have gone before him, all wel-
coming him back again from earth, he
joins with them in the more extensive la-
bors of the Priesthood, the redemption of
the dead and their preparation for the res-
urrection day.
	It is a great joy and comfort to know
that he had the privilege of living to com-
plete the Temple and to see it dedicated,
and that he superintended the setting in or-
der of the priesthood and the ordinances
for the redemption of the dead, as well as
for the exaltation of the living. It was
one of the greatest objects of his life, some-
thing that he greatly desired to see done
before he should pass away. I have often
reflected upon the prayer that I used to
hear offered up by Brother George A.
Smith during his last winter which he
spent with President Young in St. George.
As Trustee-in-Trust he directed the labors
of building the Temple. His frequent
prayer was in substance, that the Lord
would spare President Young to see the
completion of that temple and to set in or-
der the Priesthood therein. While I often
heard him make this prayer, I do not re-
member having heard him make the same
request in his own behalf. Prest. George
A. Smith passed away without this privi-
lege, but his prayer was answered on the
head of his brother Brigham, and all the
Elders of Israel greatly rejoice because he
obtained this privilege, for now all things
pertaining to the ordinances and keys of 
the priesthood in all their minutiae were
set in order according to the revelations of
God. And it will be remembered that af-
ter his return from St. George last spring
on his first greeting his brethren from this
stand some of the most prominent senti-
ments expressed by him, when referring
to his work during the winter, was that he
felt satisfied with his labors; to which I be-
lieve all Israel so far as they were acquaint-
ed with the nature of and could appreciate
those labors, could say Amen. He was
moved upon to direct his brethren, the
Apostles to go to and organize the Stakes
of Zion throughout the Territory, in which
he himself took a prominent part, accord-
ing to the strength of body he possessed.
And the kind, fatherly spirit that charac-
terized his every act during this period of
his life seemed to shine brighter and exert
even a more peaceful influence than at any
time of his life before. His public address-
es, his private utterances, his counsels and
labors during the past Summer, have all
seemed to bespeak that the hour was


drawing near, the time was close at hand
when he should depart. I have watched
him during the entire season that I was
with him, and also during his late labors
in the South in the Temple and from that
time to this 1 have carefully observed
every word that flowed from his lips both
in public and private, everything tending
to make this profound impression upon my
feelings that he was soon to pass behind
the vail; and on receiving word of his last
sickness, the impression forced itself upon
me, he is to depart. I can therefore say,
we mourn not as the world mourn. Was
he our leader? Yes, in one sense, and that
only as we are in the habit of using that
term. For thirty-three years, since the
death of the Prophet Joseph, he has been
our earthly head; and yet he was not our
leader, except in the earthly sense; for the
Lord wrought in him and through him and
by him as our earthly leader.
	And may God grant in his merciful kind-
ness that he will not hide his face from us,
but ever continue to lead us, as a people, to
glory and victory, triumphing over evil,
subduing our passions and repenting fully
of all our sins, our selfishness and pride,
our vanity and folly; and uniting our hearts
as a band of brethren and sisters for the
carrying out of the counsels of the Lord
which we have so often received through
him; and imitate his noble example, and
practise those noble virtues in our lives.
And teach them to our children and child-
ren's children and spread them abroad 
throughout the world, devoting our lives
and energies for the salvation and redemp-
tion of the living and the dead, until we
too shall go hence and meet with Brother
Brigham in the spirit world, to be wel-
comed back from this our earthly mission,
receiving that welcome plaudit, "Well
done thou faithful servant enter into the
joy of thy Lord;" and then when it shall
please God our Father to cause the trump
to sound for the resurrection; that we may
greet each other again with the Lord Jesus
Christ, and the apostles and saints that
have gone before; which we ask in the
name of Jesus Christ. Amen.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		71


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	On the evening of September 4th, 1877,
the Retrenchment Association of the Twen-
tieth Ward celebrated its second anniver-
sary, by holding a meeting to which all the
ward was invited. A number of the pa-
rents of the young ladies availed themselves
of the opportunity, and were present. The
exercises of the young ladies, after prayer,
singing, and reading of minutes and yearly
report, consisted of a select reading, "The
Righteous never Forsaken," by Miss Mary
A. Sansom; an original song suitable for
the occasion, composed by Mrs. Lula Greene
Richards, was very sweetly sung by Misses
Alice and Lizzie Sansom; an essay on
"Friendship" by Miss Mary Culmer; a reci-
tation, "Beautiful Snow," finely rendered
by Miss Thora Tweede; and an essay on
"Retrenchment" by Miss Hulda E. Wilcox.
Our Bishop, Brother John Sharp, was not
present on account of other business, but
we were favored with the presence of one
of his counselors, Brother W. [-]. Dunbar;
also Brother C. W. Stayner and Sisters E.
R. Snow, Z. D. Young, B. W. Smith and
M. R. Thompson were present as visitors,
and all made cheering, instructive and
highly appropriate remarks. The meeting
was a gratifying one in all respects, and
much credit was offered both to officers and

[Column 2]
members of the Association by the breth-
ren and sisters who spoke.
	MRS. SARAH HOWARD, President,
	MRS. ELIZABETH MATTHEWS, Sec'y.

		BLOOMINGTON, IDAHO, Sept. 13.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I thought I would like to send a short re-
port of the doings of our Relief Society. I
think we are progressing a little; we num-
ber fifty-nine members, and I think they
are all trying to do the best they can. We
have not done much yet about storing grain,
although the young ladies of the Retrench-
ment Society have been gleaning several
bushels of wheat. Our President is mak-
ing an effort to get a piece of homemade
cloth wove with the yarn the sisters have
donated, as the sisters wish to do something
to help build the Logan Temple, where we
hope to receive our endowments and bless-
ings; We have been favored with a visit
from Mrs. M. I. Horne and Mrs. Phebe
Woodruff from Salt Lake City, and Mrs.
Nora Spencer from Paris, and rejoiced in
their excellent teachings; also from Bishop
W. Holmes and Brothers James H. Hart,
P. Greenholch and J. Haddock. We feel
to mourn the loss of our beloved President
and Prophet, Brigham Young, and pray
that this event may be sanctified both to
his bereaved family and also to the Church,
that the purposes of God may be fulfilled,
and His work spread over the earth.
	At our last Annual Meeting, which was
held June 1st, our accounts showed that in
the past two years there had been collected
in the Society $200. 42; disbursed to the
poor $100. 21; five shares in Co-op stores
$50; on hand 300 lbs flour, 3 quilts, 30 skeins
yarn.
	Since our last report two of our sisters
have been called from us by death. Mrs.
Emily Payne, born November 5, 1851, died
December 28, 1876, leaving a baby boy but
a few days old, also three other children, a
husband and other relatives and friends to
mourn her loss. She was a faithful Latter-
day Saint, respected and beloved by all
who knew her.
	Mrs. Annie Nelson died May 9, 1877, in
her 37th year, leaving an infant seven
days old; also seven other children, a hus-
band and other relatives who sincerely
mourn for her. She was the former secre-
tary of the Bloomington Relief Society.
She attended most ably to the fulfillment
of her duties as Secretary, wife, mother
and friend; was a true Latter-day Saint
and was beloved for her numerous good
qualities.
	MRS. S. GREENHOLCH, President,
	ELIZABETH LONG,	} Secretaries.
	JOSEPHINE NELSON,	}

				PARADISE. CACHE Co.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We here send a short account of our An-
nual Meeting held June 7th. Our accounts
being read showed that we had disbursed
to the poor $6. 23; to the building of a
meeting-house, $15. 00; and to the Logan
factory $25. 00, leaving us an amount on
hand of $12. 00. Our Bishop Orson Smith
and his Counselors H. C. Jackson and H.
A. Shaw gave much good instruction con-
cerning our duties as members and teachers
of the Relief Society, and as mothers in
Israel, and encouraged the sisters in their
endeavors to do all the good possible for
them to do. It is our ambition to be wor-
thy of being numbered with our sister so-

[Column 3]
cieties in the great work of improvement
and restoration of all things.
	Knowing the encouragement your paper
gives the women of Utah, and the good it
does, we pray for its extended circulation
and influence, and remain your sisters in
the Gospel,
		L. B. REMINGTON, President,
		SINAH BISHOP, Secretary.

	SOUTH COTTONWOOD Aug. 29th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our president and all interested in our
Relief Society are feeling well and alive to
their duties. We are obeying the counsels
of President Young as near as possible.
We have nearly two hundred bushels of
wheat on hand, and expect to have much
more; we hope to get the brethren to assist
us in building a bin. We have always been
willing to respond to the calls of those
placed over us. The Society has donated
liberally to the St. George Temple and to
the Temple in S. L. City, as well as assist-
ing the brethren in their missions, besides
attending to the wants of the poor and
needy in the ward. There seems to be a
spirit of unity among the sisters of this
place, and a desire tn be pushing ahead.
The Counselors, Mrs. Lucy Bullock, and
Mrs. Mary Rawlens with a large number of
the teachers of the society gave our Presi-
dent Mrs. Janette Young, a very pleasant
surprise last Saturday, it being her fifty-
seventh birthday. The sisters united to-
gether and gave her a nice present. They
took with them quantities of good things
for picnic both for dinner and supper.
Bishop Rawlens joined the company at sup-
per time. We found our President in very
poor health, but she felt considerably bet-
ter when we arived. All present seemed
to enjoy themselves very much, and a good
spirit prevailed in our midst.
		Yours in the Gospel
			F. E. TURNER, Ass't.
							Sec'y.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

 Cleansing and Disinfecting.--There seems much
reason to fear that too little attention has been be-
stowed on the important question, "What becomes
of germs of disease after a cleansing process?"
Filth is washed away, but where? If water hold-
ing the poison in suspension is thrown into ordi-
nary drains, it will become the agent for distribut-
ing disease. This is a very grave consideration.
Disinfecting, properly so called, is not a precau-
tion properly carried out. It is generally deemed
sufficient to purify the particular articles supposed
to be foul, without regard to what the destination
of the germs removed may be. It is even doubt-
ful whether this practical point receives a due
share of thought in public institutions. Certainly
there is room for improvement in the domestic and
laundry methods of "purification." The only ef-
fectual method of arresting the spread of infection
is one which destroys the vitality of the germ
where it is found. We shall never be safe until
a process of this nature forms part of the usual
proceeding of cleansing articles of clothing or bed-
ding in use in private families and at hospitals.
To strike at the root of the danger the means need-
ful for the extinction of vitality in morbific or-
ganisms must be invariably employed. Lancet


MISS Boss' lecture on "Our Girls," will, it
is said, be one of the most attractive and
popular this season.


﻿WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.
MISS MIDDLE Morgan is the stock report-
er of the New York Times.

 GAIL HAMILTON has written a series of 
letters on the civil service reform.

 BELOCCA, THE Russian prima donna, has
given $5,000 for the relief of the sick and
wounded Russian soldiers.

 THE UNIVERSITY of Pennsylvania has
decided to open its doors to women stu-
dents. This will be another great move in
doing justice to women in educational ad-
vantages.  Young women of capabilities
should improve this opportunlty of stand-
ing side by side in art and science with 
men.

 SOME PROMINENT leading women in 
Chicago, have published a few facts bear-
ing upon the subject of woman’s life mis-
sion which contain some very potent truths.
It would be well for all women everywhere,
to read them, but we have not now space
for many of them.  The call is made pre-
paratory to holding a State Woman's Con-
gress which will commence its session Oct.
4, and continue two days with three ses-
sions daily.  The meetings will be held in
Clark Street Methodist Church, Chicago.
Papers will be read upon the different sub- 
jects, written purposely for the occasion.
Each paper will be limited to twenty min-
utes, and are to be submitted to a commit- 
tee on papers and topics, for approval.
Those who write are requested to send their
papers by the 1st of October, to Mrs. Oliver
Willard Evanston, Chairman, or Dr. Sarah.
H. Stevenson, Secretary; No. 125 State St
Chicago.
 THE LATE Minister of France whose loss
the French are now mourning was a most
extraordinary man.  The Republican party
can but regret his death just at this partlcu-
lar time, when it seems apparent from the
movements of Mac Mahon and his associates
that some sudden and sinister stroke of
policy is meditated.  With the aid of Thiers
and Gnmbetta they might have been out-
witted.  The last speech of M. Thiers in
public was at St. Germain, when he express-
ed himself clearly in this emphatic declar-
ation "the Republic is the only form of
Government for France," and that he had
no doubt of its triumph.  Louis Adolph
Thiers was born April 16, 1797, at Mar-
sailles. He died Sept. 3, 1877 at St. Ger-
main.  His career from his boyhood marks
him as a great man. At twenty-six years
of age he published his first volume "His-
tory of the French Revolution.” After the
revolution of 1830 he held various official
posts, and was finally elected deputy of 
Aix, and soon distinguished himself by
his financial ability and oratory.  The
French people whenever he appeared among
them, testified their enthusiasm and love
in the strongest manner.  They proudly
designated him as the "Old-man-eloquent."


MRS. Marcia E. D. Wood will lecture on
"American Homes," the coming season.


[Column 1]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

[Column 2]
	The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

	[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

		NEW FALL STOOK.

	F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.
	SPECIAL TO THE LADIES.

Call at the Constitution Building, Salt Lake Cirt, and ex-
amine the large stock of goods just recieved from the
Mill, consisting of Fine White and Colored Yarns, Flan-
nels, Linseys, Etc.
				JOHN C. CUTLER,
									AGENT.
		ROWE'S
			CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
	Big Boot, Main Street.

	No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

VISITORS TO CONFERENCE
	Amply Repaid by Visiting
TEASDEL,
			FOR
	FAMILY SUPPLIES
			FOR
FALL AND WINTER WEAR.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

	NOTICE TO THE LADIES.
THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
	DRY GOODS,
					IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
	Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

[Column 3]
	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
		IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
	WOOLEN GOODS,
					SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
				LADIES' JACKETS,
					STOCKINGS, YARNS,
						SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
							LATEST STYLES OF
								FANCY WORSTED TIES,
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of Jamaica Ginger
HOME-MADE WOOLEN BATTING,
	NEW ZEALAND FLAX SEED.

DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
