VOL. 6 				SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 1, 1878.		No. 17.


Original.
		     NIAGARA.
	     BY MARY S. GILPIN.


[This poem was written as far as the 10th stanza in Oc-
tober, 1847, after a visit of four hours; completed after
subsequent visits to Canada the last in 1869.  Now first
published with the author's name, from its having been
shown about as his, by C. F. C.- who obtained it in manu-
script under false pretense of drawing illustrations.]

They wonders are seen in the deep--O God!
On the mountain brow; where man's foot hath scarce
	trod-

In the cavern wild, and the mighty rock
Which has borne unshattered the earthquake's shock-

In the rush of winds through the forest deep-
In the avalanche slide from the Alpine steep
In Thy works of terror, and beauty- but here
O Creator!  Thy living power is near.

Majestic and awful it rushes past
With the whirlwind's roar and the tempest's blast
And the billows which fast the green islets kiss
Are hurrying along to their mighty abyss;

And the milk-white foam and the feathery spray
And  the Iris-hues of the promised bow
Are seen in the depths of the gulf below.

From shore to island I'm borne along
By the Syren-voice of the cataract's song,
And I catch the swell of the torrent's flow
As I fly through the woods in their golden glow.

Then I pass to the cliff's protecting verge,
And  list to the swell of the sounding surge,
Where from Luna's Isle with a plunge and cry
The youth and  maiden were borne to die.

Then I cross the rock and the winding stair
Where floats the spray on the bouyant air
To gaze, from the height of the islet tower,
On the Crecent-fall in its wondrous power.

Where far as backward the eye can glance
Whirl and toss the rapids in a wondrous dance
Til the chrysolite wall, and the beach of snow
Are merge iu the stillness of death below.

When the "Maid of the West" may serenely glide
Nor dread the swell of the fathomless tide
Till it rises and rushes far below
In the ebon whirlpool's eddying flow.

Where far above with majestic span
Stupendous hangs the bold, work of man-
And two mightiest nations stand side by side
By countless and closest chords allied,

There a peaceful river Niagara flows
In Ontario's bosom to seek repose.
And a thousand navies may calmly ride
What erst had 'whelm'd the in ruin wide.

Then on and onward St. Lawrence hies
Embracing in beauty her "thousand isles"
Till Ottawa's tribute waters fall
As it leaves the bold heights of old Montreal.

Where the "boatman's song" in its chorus clear
Erst charmed the young "Bard of Erins" ear
As they "pass the wood in the twilight dim"
To sing at St. Ann's their parting hymn.

Then passes the high, embattered wall
Which saw the bravest of heroes fall,
Still chanting the solemn requiem
Of the gallant Wolfe and the brave Montcalm;

Thence with deep ping width, and majestic force
The mighty river pursues her course
Till, met by Atlantic's resistless tide,
In old Ocean's bosom shall calm abide.

And thus shall Life's "cares, joys, hopes, and fears,"
The mighty current of Time's dread years,
As they wash and swell o'er the eddying pool
And on toward Eternity's waters roll-

Be but as the course of this mighty river,
And through Christian faith as it faltereth never,
Still peacefully anchor each pilgrim blest
In the depths and fulness of Heavenly rest.


[Column 1]

AFTER LONG YEARS.

LETTER VI.

	I sit in the twilight of other days,
		Watching the shadows time has thrown
	As they flit like phantoms while I gaze
		'Mid the glamour of ruins ivy-grown.

	Who is there that does not love to revel
at times in the "light of other days," e'en
though it has faded and its beauty gone?
The charm lingers still though the reality
has gone forever. Life at its brightest,
when the heart was all aglow with pleas-
ure, left its impression engraven in such
forcible characters that time cannot erase
them, and though moss and ivy envelop the
ruin, yet we sometimes tear away this cov-
ering and find the shape and form of what
we once cherished, but perhaps defaced
and broken. Then better let it remain
screened from view by the sure process of
nature's beautiful covering than to seek to
remove that which makes it appear indis-
tinct, to find it changed, and perhaps crum-
bled to atoms. Let the ivy hide the ruin
and beautify it with its tender branches
and fresh green leaves, symbolical of the
love that covers all that is unpleasant in
the beloved object.
	If the past was really as charming as we
fancy it now from the distance, the ivy
will only enhance its beauty still more, and
if there were any hideous scars or ragged
edges unfinished, then this trailing vine
which weaves itself so fantastically around,
will hide their deformity, and in gazing
backward we shall only see the fanciful
covering time ever hangs around its scen-
ery.
	We should honor old father Time for he
works miracles for us all. The way may be
over so rough, the thorns may wound our
weary feet, the thistle pierce us ere we can
pluck the flower, but urged onward by this
white-haired monarch, who bears sway
over all the race of mortals here below,
anon we turn to catch as twere the echo of
our flying footsteps and what do we behold?
The path we trod, so rough, so dreary, beau-
tiful to us by the enchantment time has
thrown over it. We forget the cares, the
toils, the hardships, and remember only
what was lovely and pleasing. And as we
turn backward, the reflectiou of all that is
good and bright in our natures sheds a halo
of light upon our past lives and creates in
us a feeling of admiration in dwelling up-
on the picture. The sun at noonday throws
shadows forward, but as the day advances
he begins to throw his rays backward and
light up in beauty the pathway over which
he traveled in the morning, and when
evening draws near, he lights the distant
hills with reflections of incomparable
beauty. Is it not thus in individual life?
We travel on fearlessly, and unconsciously
after having gained a goodly distance, we
look backward over the way which seemed
so irksome while plodding along, and as we
review it, it is altogether changed in its as-
pect. We remember now in reverting to
it, many delightful shady groves, sunny
hills covered with verdure, in contrast with
barren plains, and there were sometimes
sparkling crystal fountains, where we

[Column 2]

quenched our fevered thirst and cooled our
heated brows. We remember with infinite
pleasure, the green meadows where we
gathered the fragrant cowslip and blue-eyed
daisy. After all there were many pleas-
ant passages in the life-journey. Among
these, dearer than all else, are the associa-
tions of those we loved, which we appre-
ciated so little (it may be) while we were
brought in daily contact with them, and we
could see all their faults and deficiencies
then, but now, when we meet them no
more, we remember only their virtues and
noble qualities—all that was lovable in
them comes vividly to our recollection in
recalling the incidents of the past.
	If a helping hand has been extended to
us in some dark gloomy hour, to help us
cross some wide chasm into which it seem-
ed we must fall if left to ourselves, if in
some path beset with difficulties a friend
has unobtrusively aided in getting us safely
through—even though we scarce noticed it
then so absorbed were we with our own
troubles or difficulties, yet as we recall it in
sober reflection, we bless in our inmost
soul that friend, who stood by us in the try-
ing hour. Sorrows make us selfish, and if
there are some who love us well enough
to overlook such selfishness, and stimulate
us to rise above our grief, or trials whatever
they may be—then indeed are they angels
though embodied in humanity. Life has
many pleasures if we can only realize them,
and there is much true sympathy in men
and women if we better comprehended
each other. Think of all the kindnesses,
the benefits we have received, think of our
own selfishness and ingratitude, and per-
haps the world will not seem so bad as we
are sometimes inclined to think it. It is
wise to take life in its brightest aspects
whether in looking backward or forward,
and remember as we do after our travels, to
recount the pleasant part and draw a veil
over the disagreeable, unless it is really
necessary to dwell upon it in order that
some other inexperienced traveler may
shun danger, or avoid unpleasantness.
There is much more of sweet than bitter
in the elements of life if we acquire the
requisite knowledge of extracting and com-
pounding them so as to have them blend
with each other in proper quantities. We
shall learn by and by how to live happily,
how to dwell together in love, and peace
will reign in all the earth.
	AUNT EM.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	HON. GEORGE Q. Cannon, Delegate from
Utah to Congress, had a hearing before the
House sub-Committee on Territories, Mon-
day, Jan. 28. His speech was in opposition
to the Utah elective bill. Dr. Mary Walk-
er and Mrs. Sara J. Andrews Spencer both
protested against Congress disfranchising
polygamists. These two ladies spoke hero-
ically, and expressed their own views of
the subject—but we prefer to take the sa-
cred phase of the practice of plural mar-
riage to any other. "It is understood the
Committee will soon report THE BILL."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms Sat-
urday Jan. 18, was well attended, Mrs. M.
I. Horne presiding. The minutes read by
the young secretaries were full of good in-
struction and gave a good representation
of the condition of the junior associations.
Mrs. M. I. Horne made some remarks in re-
gard to the petitions for universal suffrage,
and the appeal to Congress to sustain us in
the rights and priviliges of citizenship
which had been granted to us by the Terri-
torial Legislature. Coun. E. R. Snow re-
marked that she had reports from all the
Relief Societies which had been sent her
when making up a report for the Centen-
nial, that would be very useful to them in
making up reports for the quarterly meet-
ing of the Relief Society; she also stated
that it had been considered proper to pur-
chase wheat to store for Zion with the funds
saved in the Woman's Store and asked the
sisters to vote upon the matter and it was
unanimously carried. She spoke of that
store having been started without any cap-
ital, and of the good results of the sisters'
labors there. Made many other happy re-
marks. Dr. Romania B. Pratt gave an en-
tertaining sketch of her college life in brief,
of her visit to the hill of Cumorah, its beauty,
and the associations which clung to it, her
own peculiar feelings on beholding it; her
visit to Niagara Falls; and her gratitude in
being blest to return home in peace and
safety. She spoke of having made arrange-
ments to teach a class in anatomy and
physiology, and referred to the medical lec-
tures every Friday afternoon in the Expo-
nent Office, and that she would be glad to
see more of the sisters come to them, they
were free to all. Mrs. Adelaide F. Smith
expressed her feelings, desires and hopes in
the Latter-day work. Mrs. E. S. Barney
earnestly exhorted the sisters to improve
the opportunity now offered them of study-
ing anatomy and physiology and spoke
briefly upon seri-culture, storing grain and
home literature. Coun. E. Howard allud-
ed to the Legislature now in session, and
thought we should sustain them by our
faith and prayers, that they might legislate
wisely for the future benefit of the people.
Mrs. Sarah B. Phelps suggested that all
those who felt like sustaining the brethren
of the Legislature by their faith and pray-
ers should say amen—Pres. Horne made
the motion and the entire congregation re
sponded with a hearty Amen.

	PARIS, BEAR LAKE VALLEY, Dec., 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Not wishing to be entirely forgotten by
our friends, I send you a communication
from this portion of our Mountain Home.
The 6th inst. a special meeting was called
for the purpose of dissolving our Society,
as Paris has been divided into two wards it
was thought best to have a society in each
ward, the meeting was well attended and a
good spirit prevailed. Great praise and
credit were given to President Julia Lind-
sey and her counselors for the able manner
in which they have conducted the Society
in the past. After the business of the meet-
ing had been attended to, President Lind-
sey in a very appropriate speech presented
the Secretary with a beautiful book entitled
"The Women of Mormondom" from the
members of the society as a token of the af-
fection and regard they cherish for her and
as a remembrance of her faithful service.
	President Wm. Budge encouraged the
sisters to persevere and continue in the
good work they are engaged in, also wish-

[Column 2]

ed the Bishops to reorganize a society in
their respective wards at the earliest conve-
nience. The sisters have been doing all
they could to carry out the counsel of our
President, and to forward the work of ref-
ormation in this place. Financially we can-
not boast of our circumstances; still we have
done all in in our power to assist the poor
and needy, visit the sick, and comfort those
who mourn. A good spirit prevails among
the sisters, and they realize that storing
grain is essential to temporal salvation, we
have fifty-four bushels of wheat on hand,
and expect, if the Lord blesses us with
crops another year, to do more. We have
donated largely to the Logan Temple, and
truly feel to rejoice that we have a Temple
in course of erection so near us. If we
have not much of this world's means, we
are rich in spirit, blest with health, kind
hearts and willing hands that are ready to
help build up the Kingdom of God.
	May God bless and prosper the Relief So-
cieties, that they may accomplish that for
which they were organized.
	ALICE M. RICH, Sec'y.

	GRANTSVILLE, Jan. 12th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our Society is progressing; almost every
meeting we are admitting new members.
Home-industries, Storing of Grain, care for
the poor, and the necessity of living our
religion, are the teachings given and acted
upon.
	Wednesday, the 9th inst, the Society gave
a public dinner to the poor and widows of
this place, to which the President, M. F.
Lyman, Bishops John Rowberry and Ed-
ward Hunter, the Mayor and City Council,
and the musicians, with their wives, were
invited to partake. The dinner was excel-
lent and adundant. The tables had they
been gifted with the power of speech would
have protested against being so heavily
loaded. The guests seemed to enjoy them-
selves extremely well. Those of the poor
who were not able to attend had their din-
ner sent to them. President M. F. Lyman
offered thanks, and he prayed the Lord to
bless us, as we had blessed the poor. If
that prayer is heard and answered, we shall
have an abundance of the comforts of life,
as well as the necessaries. All the officers
of the Society waited upon the table, which
kept them busy about two hours. The sur-
plus food was divided among the poor and
needy, so that of all our abundance nothing
was wasted or lost.
	In the evening we had a real old-fash-
ioned dance, dispensing with round danc-
ing. A good spirit prevailed, and all en-
joyed themselves. The music and the Hall
were free to the use of the Society for the
entertainment.
	M. A. HUNTER, President.
	JANE EASTHAM,
	SARAH HALE,		Counselors.
	M. A. HOUSE, Secretary.

	MANTUA, BOX ELDER Co., Jan. 23, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We send you a brief report of the condi-
tion of our society to let you know how we
are getting along. We have our meetings
twice a month which are well attended and
a good spirit prevails. We number sixty-
six members and all enjoy good health as a
general thing, for which we feel thankful to
our heavenly Father, who is the Giver of
all good gifts. We receive good instruc-
tions from our dear President Margaret Kel-
ler, who spares no exertion in acting as a
mother to us, and we feel to carry out her
instructions inasmuch as the Lord will give

[Column 3]

us power to do so. We are not extrava-
gant in our dress, but dress plain, and we
wear home-make materials for everything
we can use it for. We remember the sick
and needy, I don't think there are any in
want.
	We have been trying to carry out the
counsel of our beloved President Brigham
Young, in storing grain; we have in store
one hundred and fifteen bushels of which
thirteen were gleaned by the young ladies.
We will continue to gather as much as we
can, although this is not the best place for
raising grain on account of the late and
early frosts. We have got a bin of our
Bishop P. C. Jensen for our grain. Our
Bishop is always ready to lend a helping
hand, and he takes a deep interest in our
welfare both in temporal and spiritual af-
fairs. We feel to go forward with the rest
of our sisters and keep up with the times.
	Praying that the Lord will bless each and
every one of us that we may continue faith-
ful to the end, we remain your sisters in
the Gospel,
	MARGARET KELLER, Pres't.
	KRISTEN ANDERSON, Sec'y.
	CARANMISSIER CHRISTENSEN, Ass't.


ANNUAL MEETING OF THE ELEV-
ENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY.

SYNOPSIS OF MINUTES.

	Thursday Jan. 3d, the Relief Society of
this ward held their annual meeting. The
Annual Report was read and accepted.
There was a goodly number of sisters in at-
tendance; the Bishop and his counselors
and several other brethren were present.
The President Mrs. S. MacRae made a few
opening remarks and wished them all A
Happy New Year. Mrs. Mary A. Freeze,
Pres’t. of the Young Ladies Association,
made some remarks and alluded to her be-
ing about to go East on a visit, and her de-
sire to make it a mission for good, in pro-
mulgating the principles of the Gospel.
Mrs. M. I. Horne referred to the events of
importance which had transpired during
the past year, and the condition of the
church at the prsent, the union of the peo-
ple etc. Miss E. R. Snow spoke of the
great and glorious results which Joseph the
Prophet predicted concerning Relief Socie-
ties, also referred to the establishment of
the Home Commission Store, the sustain-
ing of home manufactures and the duties
of saints, in public and private, the consis-
tency of a true Christian, the storing of
grain by women, and many other subjects.
Mrs. E. B. Wells spoke of the great desire
she had to be useful; of the Bill now before
Congress to deprive this people of rights
and priviliges, and made some practical re-
marks upon matters pertaining to ever-day
life. Bishop Mac Rae gave some excellent
counsel and instruction, thanked the sisters
for their assistance to him in taking care of
the poor, wished them all "A Happy New
Year."
	The question in regard to land owned by
the Relief Society of this ward was brought
before the meeting, and a vote was taken
whether it should be donated to pay a debt
which was owing on the New School House.
All the sisters who had donated to help pay
for the land were willing that it should be
appropriated in payment of the debt. The
vote was unanimous and the land placed
at the disposal of the brethren to assist in
in paying the indebtedness on the building.
The lot is estimated over $1200. Meeting
closed with prayer by Bishop MacRae.
	MRS. MACRAE, Pres't.
	MRS. BIDGOOD Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


TO THE SPIRIT OF TRUTH

BY MINNIE MORE.

Welcome! I hail thee monitor of truth!
Friend of my childhood, guide of my youth,
Thy chiding voice has no stranger tone,
Tis a voice of comfort when I'm sad and alone.
As a light to guide when my feet would stray,
In the paths of darkness and lose their way,
Tis the voice of mercy when the heart has bled,
And tears of penitence deep are shed.
'Tis a voice of reproof pointing the way
When in error my feet are wont to stray;
Reproof in plainnes and kindness given,
A ray of light in the path the heaven.
Then shall I shrink or stand aloof,
When I find in my follies they reproof,
No, be my guide, my pilot my stay,
And lead me on to eternal day.
Jan. 1, 1878.


TO THE ENEMIES OF WOMAN'S
	SUFFRAGE.

	Come let us reason together. Is not the 
world in confusion?  Is there a place on
the face of the earth where truth and jus-
tice hold sway–where the weak are not
driven to the wall by the strong, where cap-
ital does not try to crush labor, and in re-
turn laborers do not fiercely hate capitalists.
Is it not fast coming to the time when every
man's hand is against every man?  Is there
any real confidence in any person, or thing?
Silver has lost its value, consequently peo-
ple have lost confidence in it; gold will fol-
low.  Has not man lost confidence in wo-
man, and woman in man?  Philosophers
say there is no cause without effect, or ef-
fect without a cause.  The Lord in speaking
of woman said "man shall rule over thee,"
but he did not say forever.  He also says,
"as you sow so shall you reap, you have sown
the wind you must reap the whirlwind."
From the remotest time that we have any
authentic account of in any nationality, men
have ruled over women with an iron rule.
Let us look at the present day without go-
ing back to pry into the past, which would
reveal heart-sickening barbarities practiced
upon women as a class, giving them no law-
ful protection only such as she could coax
from her master.  We will look at the 
United States, the freest of all nations for
women; men make the laws, also execute
them.  They make the taxes and collect
and disburse them.  If a woman has prop-
erty they make her pay her taxes on it.
Men bring women to disrepute for pastime,
then crush their partners in crime down to
the lowest depths of degradation, while
they hold up thei[-] heads among the most
virtuous of the land.  Men pride them-
selves on their powers of fascination to de-
stroy virtue, unblushingly.  A short time
since we read an account of a prominent
New York Politician, and aspirant for one
of the most important foreign missions,
leading astray the wife of a friend of his.
When he got tired of her he tried to put
her in a Lunatic Asylum, and so powerful
was his influence that she could get no re-
dress in the Courts of Justice.  She is now
dependent on charity, while he is living in 
his mansion on Fifth Avenue, admired and 
respected by his SET.  Men hold up their 
hands in horror at a drunken woman, but a
drunken man is a good fellow.  A woman
smoking is disgusting, but it is one of the 
fashionable pastimes for men.  Men shew
women every evil in themselves, yet de-
mand the strictest virtue and uprightness
in a woman  They require the widest lib-
erty for themselves, yet bind women with
chains that they would not bear one single
hour.  Men accuse women of unsexing
themselves, laugh at them because they


see they have all power over them, when
they ask for equal rights.  Gentlemen don't
you think that your injustice to woman
may have had some influence in bringing
about the state of things that is so compli-
cated as to defy the wisest of minds to
bring order out of chaos?  Don't you know
that a narrow education in woman means
a narrow mind in her offspring?  Don't
you know you rob yourselves when you rob
woman?  In your narrow policy you are
afraid that woman may  be your equal.
Why not?  Are you afraid she will treat
you to a dose of your own physic?
MARY
Grantsville, Jan. 12th, 1878.


THE FIRST WOMAN'S RIGHTS MEET-
ING ON RECORD.

[WOMAN'S JOURNAL]

 The Bible is so often quoted to uphold ar-
guments against Woman's Rights, that at-
tention should be called to Numbers, 27th
Chapter, 1-8th verse.  We there find an ac-
count of the first occasion on which women
came before the public to demand property-
rights which the laws did not give them.
 We read that "Zelophehad, the son of
Hepher, had no sons, but daughters." "Then
came the daughters of Zelophehad, the son
of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of
Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the fami-
lies of Manasseh, the son of Joseph; and
these are the names of the daughters; Mah-
lah, Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and
Tirzah.
 "And they stood before Moses and before
Eleazar the priest, and before the princes
and all the congregation, by the door of the
tabernacle of the congregation, saying,
'Our father died in the wilderness, and he
was not in the company of them that gath-
ered themselves together against the Lord
in the company of Korah: but died in his
own sin, and left no sons.
"'Why should the name of our father be
done away from among his family, because
he hath no son?  Give us therefore a pos-
session among the brethren of our father.'
 "And Moses brought their case before
the Lord.
 "And the Lord spake unto Moses saying,
'The daughters of Zelophehad speak right;
thou shalt surely give them a possession of
an inheritance among their brethren, and
thou shalt cause the inheritance of their
father to pass unto them.  And thou shalt
speak unto the children of Israel, saying,
If a man die and have no son, then ye shall
cause his inheritance to pass unto his
daughter.'"
 Notice first the second verse; what imagi-
nable occasion could be one of more public-
ity?  "Before Moses," the great law-giver
and leader of the people, "and Eleazar the
priest, and before the princes and all the
congregation;" in the presence of Church
and State, of the highest legal, religious
and civil authority, in the sight of that im-
mense audience of all the people, and at the
very door of the tabernacle itself!  Strange,
is it not, that Moses did not severely cen-
sure them for this unwomanly trusting of
themselves before the public, reminding
them that they were over-stepping the lim-
its of their sphere, that women did not un-
derstand business affairs, and that it was
audacity itself to attempt to improve the
great code of the Mosaic law which was of
divine origin!
	Now Moses probably had an opinion of
his own; but we shall never know what it
was, for, although he was the head of the
nation, standing between the people and
God, even he did not seem to feel at liberty
to lay, down the law to these women.  He
did not improve this excellent opportunity
for haranguing the people and exhibiting
his great sagacity and familiarity with the
ancient Egyptian writers.  He did not even
say what was really true, that it was not
the majority of women that requested this
change, but only one family.
 We are simply told that "Moses brought
their case before the Lord."
	Now who, of all the worthy patriarchs of
that time, would have thought of amend-
ing the law so that women should have
some property-rights?  Who, even of the
women would have done so, unless they
chanced to be situated as these sisters?  It
was true then, as it is now, that such
amendments must come through the efforts
of the parties most interested, if they are
to come at all, and if these are unwilling to
take the trouble, or incur possible odium.
by presenting their petitions, let them not
murmur at unjust legislation.
 We have our Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Mil-
cah and Tirzah to-day; but we call them
Mary A. Livermore, Lucy Stone, Elizabeth
Cady Stanton, Susan B. Anthony and Julia
Ward Howe.  Upon their memories will
rest the benedictions of generations of wo-
men yet to be, who will owe better laws,
higher development, and broader sphere to
the untiring labors of these modern "daugh-
ters of Zelophehad."
FRANCES LOCKE.
Providence, R. I.


CORRESPONDENCE.

PAYSON, Jan. 8, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT.

	Sister Wignall wishes to know if any in-
struction could be given through the EXPO-
NENT for giving silk a gloss. Such items
are beneficial to the sisters. The editorial
in your columns on that NEW YEAR, I think
is splendid;also Mrs. Hannah T. King’s poe-
try entitled the “Vale,” true it is that each
year brings its bitters and sweets. Many
in this place have had to mourn the loss of
fathers, mothers, husbands, wives and child-
ren. We know the separation is severe, es-
pecially to the carnal world, but it is not for
us to murmur at Providence, the separa-
tion is only for a time. I feel sorry for those
that take no comfort in reading, they lack
the food for their souls. Sister Snow’s
Hymns, poetry, and writings, what solid
comfort I have received from them, I feel
to say all the time God bless her, every
word she speaks of writes seems to me like
inspiration. Her second volume of poems
just published is beautiful. My husband
bought her likeness for me last summer
knowing that it would be prized by me. I
love to see the noble works of my sisters
and hope some day to be worthy of being
closer associated with them. When I was
at President Young's funeral, I looked at
the grand assembly and thought what a 
meeting! What will it be at the resurrec-
tion? It seems to me that it would be
grand beyond description.
	I wish you and all the readers of the EX-
PONENT A Happy New Year, and many of
them, and I pray God to bless and prosper
you in your labors.
	With love, your sister,
	M. A. HARDY.


132		THE WOMEN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
l.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates:  Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 1, 1878.


[Column 1]
WHAT WE WOMEN DO WITH OUR
TIME.

	Economy of time is one of the most essen-
tial requisites to give peace and contentment
to woman. There are very few people that
understand how to dispose of their work so as
to have some opportunities for culture. On
every hand we hear the remark made, "I've
no time to read, no time to improve my mind.
I'm tired of work, work, sick to death of drudg-
ery; woman's work is monotonous."
	Every woman, and more especially every
mother, should have some time to devote to
individual improvement, and that, too, with-
out its interfering with her duties and obliga-
tions to her husband or children. Occasion-
ally we see women who will surmount hosts
of obstacles in order to pursue some special
branch of literature or art, but these are excep-
tional cases only. Women really seem to have
less time and more to do now than ever. There
must be a cause for this hurry and bustle, for
certainly things are not done so much better
than formerly, and many things are now done
by machinery that were erst done at home.
Too many mothers make themselves complete
slaves to their families, both in the matter of
dress and food. It is said when things have
gone on so far that they can go no farther, or
be no worse, then there is a turning point, and
in this one particular it seems they have
reached the fartherest extreme. Instead of
the mother in many households being waited
upon by her sons and daughters, she waits
upon them, devoting her time, strength and
energies exclusively to gratifying their tastes
and appetites, and calling it duty. She can
never find a minute to cultivate her mind.
Children can be taught to do many things for
themselves, if proper care is taken in training
them; and it makes them much more self-
reliant through life. O how the grandmothers
of fifty years ago would stare if they saw the
darning, hemming and stitching of the girls
now-a-days. Not so long ago as that, little
girls were taught to stitch, and gather, and all
that sort of thing, by a thread, but now ma-
chines do all this, with a little care and atten-
tention, and a great deal more even, and yet
there is no more leisure time, and not even as
much. Society has too many claims on wo-
men, and fashion brings them into complete
bondage Not alone flounces, ruffies, and the
paraphernalia of woman's wardrobe, but the
time taken up in complying with all the forms
and ceremonies of Madame Grundy's set, who
compose at the present day the elite of each
respective city, town, or village. This tyrant
queen, sovereign, empress, or MYTH, should be
dethroned immediately, if we would have ra-
tional mothers for the next generation. The
excitement of what is termed fashionable life

[Column 2]
amounts almost to insanity, and no woman
who leads a life of dissipation and folly can be
a true and consistent mother. And on the
other hand, the mother who makes herself
only a drudge, or a subordinate, in her own
household, will never develop her highest and
noblest powers for promoting true happiness.
It is not necessary to go to New York Chicago,
or any other large city for this class of wo-
men, for every town has its SET, who ape the
extreme of fashionable city life.  P[-]imitive as
this city may be in many respects, and far re-
moved from the deteriorating influences that
abound in larger towns, yet here there are
many of these fashionable customs (more pro-
perly termed evils) beginning to find votaries.
	These are some of the reasons why women
have not time to cultivate their minds. If
women were determined to inform themselves
upon the general topics of the day, the condi-
tion of nations, of governments, and the vari-
ous discoveries and inventions which are con-
stantly being made, it would be a sort of relief
from washing dishes and tending baby, and
would be of a much more elevating character
than to read sensational stories that give them
false ideas of human nature, and vitiate the
taste for a higher class of readlng
	It is true that household life is monotonous,
but it can easily be relieved of its sameness by
a little scheming and planning. Make up your
mind you will pass one hour at least every day
in the open air; it will be an antidote for head-
ache in many instances. Leave off stitching,
leave off cooking, take baby with you if neces-
sary, but go out at all events, it will benefit
you physically and invigorate and refresh you
mentally. If every woman would decide that
one hour every day should be passed in the
sunshine, (don't wait till evening, when all the
work is done and you are too tired to stir) and
one hour to her own personal culture in read-
ing, music, or whatever pursuit is most to her
taste, it would tend greatly to the promotion
of home-happiness. Cheerful faces and pleas-
ant conversation enliven the hours passed with-
in doors.  Wear your dresses plainer; dispense
with extra trimming on the children's clothes;
economize your time so as to be companionable
to those with whom you are associated; influ-
ence your friends to adopt the same or similar
methods of appropriating a portion of time to
healthy exercise and mental culture. We have
heard it remarked that women who do their
own housework have sufficient exercise; but
running up and down stairs, making beds, and
walking the floor with sick babies, are not as
beneficial as a pleasant walk in the open sun-
shine. Women who are classed by the major-
ity as model-mothers, are those who seldom go
beyond their own threshold, devoting them-
selves exclusively to household affairs, denying
themselves all self-culture, and in many in-
stances neglecting their health and spiritual
development. Every woman who values her
own soul should set her face as a flint against
dissipation, or excess of whatever name or na-
ture—the consequences are discontent, unrest
in the present, and ruinous to her posterity.


[Column 1]	
HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE LEGISLATIVE Assembly have, judging
by the minutes of their proceedings, a great
deal of business before the House this term; no
doubt they will dispose of most of the ques-
tions now pending judiciously. We have only
noticed one bill in relation to the privileges of
women, and that was among the unfinished
business of last session, which came up in its
order on Monday, Jan. 21, and on motion of
Councilor Burton was referred to the Commit-

[Column 2]
tee on Elections. Said bill is "a bill to confer
on women the right to hold certain offices in
this Territory, to which women are ineligible
now." We shall see now what can be done in
a Territory where women have the franchise,
to give them opportunity to become co-labor-
ers with men in some of these public matters.
The time has at last arrived when woman is
beginning to be recognized as a responsible
being, and one who has some special interest
in the laws which govern her sex in common
with man.

	THE PETITION for Universal Suffrage, which
has been in circulation recently through various
parts of this Territory, has been forwarded to
Washington with over 13,000 signature.
The object of these petitions in the various
States and Territories, is to obtain for women
the same right to the ballot as that enjoyed by
men. At the present time, men of every class
and color are entitled to vote and elect men to
office, to make and revise such laws as they
deem proper, while educated, intelligent wo-
men, eminently wise, have only such influ-
ence in the land as they can secure through
man. And men in all ages have been swayed
more by the charms of person in the opposite
sex than by any real greatness of character, or
nobility of principle. This is the true record
of men, which history plainly verifies. The
Congress of the United States is no exception
to this general rule. Knowing these facts, and
that women are oppressed with heavy burdens
of intemperance and many other evils which
disgrace the annals of the nation, is it so very
wonderful that woman should appeal for equal
rights? Are not women free-born as well as
men? and why should they be governed with-
out consent, or taxed without representation?	

	We have just finished the perusal of "House-
hold Education," by Harriet Martineau. The
book is really what the name signifies, and full
of practical hints, suggestions and instruction
in the ways and means of developing good ten-
dencies and suppressing evil ones, and culti-
vating at home in early years those attributes
which make men and women useful in life and
a blessing to mankind. It is an excellent work
for young mothers; many young women err in
judgment for want of a guide, and have not
counselors who are wise to instruct them. This
little volume will tell them many things that
will help them in training and caring for the
little ones' bodies and minds. We as a people
believe in seeking knowledge from good books,
and after carefully reading "Household Educa-
tion," we pronounce it one of the best books of
its kind. Home education is what gives socie-
ty its tone, and taking this fact into considera-
tion, one cannot but feel that this sort of edu-
cation is being fearfully neglected by the world
at large. "Household Education" is a suitable
size for handling, and may be read at intervals
while getting baby to sleep without inconve-
nience. It contains 366 pages, divided into 26
chapters; each treating upon a particular sub-
ject, but all bearing upon the special one, the
education at home. Price, $1.25; for sale at
James Dwyer's Book Store, Main Street.

	DESERET SILK Association met per adjourn-
ment Friday evening, January 11th, at the
Council House; Mrs. Zina D. Young presid-
ing. Elder Wilford Woodruff made the open-
ing prayer, and also made some remarks upon
the sericulture and the mission having been
given to the sisters, and commended them for
their untiring labors and the good results that
had accrued. The President of the Associa-
tion, Mrs. Z. D. Young, made some statements
of the present condition of the sericulture, and
future schemes for its promotion. Elder J. E.


[Column 1]
Taylor made some remarks relative to the busi-
ness before the Association, and related some
incidents illustrative of the present condition
of the Silk Association. Sisters M. I. Horne,
E. R. Snow and E. S. Barney each made some
remarks. Superintendent A. C. Pyper gave
his experience from the very first of President
Young's requiring the brethren to take hold of
the sericulture. Elder Paul A. Schettler re-
ferred to the quality of silk raised in Utah, and
the opinion of those acquainted with the qual-
ity of silk in France, Italy, and in Syria, where
he had exhibited; specimens; said they all
agreed that the Utah Silk was of the very fin-
est nature. The climate was one of the best
for the cultivation of silk, Elder Charles
Stayner, Elder Hurlburt, and Elder Graves
each made some appropriate remarks. Elder
A. M. Musser also made some suggestions in
regard to future proceedings in the work of
silk cultivation. A committee was formed by
unanimous vote to meet and decide upon some
special matters relative to the work.
	The special Committee previously appointed
met at the EXPONENT Office Monday evening,
Jan. 14; Elder A. M. Musser opened the meet-
ing with prayer. Some business matters were
discussed, ideas and opinions expressed, re-
marks made upon the necessity of capital to
purchase machinery, and the measures that
must necessarily be taken to obtain it; and a
committee of three were authorized to wait
upon President Taylor for counsel in the mat-
ter.
	The next meeting per appointment convened
in the Council House, Friday evening, Jan
25, Vice-President M. I. Horne presiding, as
the President of the Association was indisposed
and could not be present. Mrs. E. Howard was
appointed Secretary pro tem., as the Secretary
was absent. The minutes of the previous
meeting were read and accepted. Mrs. Horne
stated that the Committee had waited upon
President Taylor and the brethren of the
Twelve according to appointment, but Pres.
Taylor was unable to see them on account of
sickness in his family, and therefore the Associa-
tion would not be able to do the business they
had anticipated at this meeting. Mrs. Horne
remarked that the silk culture really ought to
receive more attention in the future, and she
felt such plans should be devised as would
awaken a wider interest in its successful estab-
lishment. Miss E. R. Snow remarked that al-
though the Committee had not had an interview
with Pres. Taylor as had been expected, she had
held some conversation with him unofficially,
and he had expressed himself that the silk
culture was too much in its incipiency to war-
rant a permanent organization upon business
principles as a commercial enterprise, and the
present organization would answer in applying
for an appropriation. Br. Lorenzo Snow, of
Brigham City, would be willing to take charge
of the machinery. Pres. Taylor coincided
with the views which had been expressed by
some of the officers of the Association. Some
necessary business was transacted, and a com-
mittee of three was appointed to draft a peti-
tion to the Legislature asking for an appropri-
ation to purchase machinery and promote the
raising of cocoons. Mrs. E. B. Wells made
some remarks, and snggested the idea of mak-
ing presidents of Relief Societies local vice-
presidents, in connection with the parent As-
sociation, to further the interest of the people
in silk culture. Elder Musser gave his ideas
upon the subject. Elder Graves recommended
county organizations in connection with the
parent society. A motion was made by the
Vice President. Mrs. M. I. Horne, that all that
Presidents of Relief Societies and Young La-

[Column 2]
dies Mutual Improvement Associations
throughout the Territory act as local vice-presi-
dents to promote sericulture; and it was de-
cided by a unanimous vote of the meeting.
Br. Wm. Smith, of Farmington, expressed his
desire to see scriculture more extensively en-
gaged in as a blessing to the poor and employ-
ment for those who must have available labor
here at home in Zion; said he knew many in
the vicinity of Farmington intended planting
out trees this coming spring. Elder Musser
made some suggestions in regard to mulberry
trees, as it was now near the time for planting
them out, Mrs. Horne said a great deal of in-
struction had been given to the sisters in their
general meeting in the 14th Ward (which con-
vened semi-monthly), on the subject of put-
ting out mulberry cuttings, raising silk worms,
and all the primary work relating to sericul-
ture, and that the intention was to continue to
impress upon the sisters the importance of this
special branch of home industry. The name
of Elder Anson Gall as Vice-President of the
Deseret Silk Association was dropped, as he
had never taken any active part, and it was in-
convenient for him to attend the meetings as
he lived some distance. Miss E. R. Snow was
nominated to act as first Vice-President in
place of Elder Anson Call, and she was elected
to said office by unanimous vote. The meet-
ing was adjourned subject to the call of the
President of the Association.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
DISCOURSE
BY 
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG
DELIVERED
In the Tabernacle, Ogden.
[CONTINUED.]

	Well, I may say there are a hundred and one
things we have to talk about; and as the sisters
will give no reports, we will tell them what
they should do. Now, recollect what I have
said to you. Go to, from one thing to another
to make for ourselves what we need. Stop this
buying, so that we can have something on
hand.
	Another item. I will say to the Presidency
of this Stake of Zion, if you could take one-
fourth the time of the men who are idle here
and put it on the Temple, and take the other
three fourths and go to the Railroad Compa-
nies and say, "Gentlemen, we will turn you
out a hundred hands who will work for one
dollar a day, we would have the railroads in
our hands, and have every dollar that they
spend for five hundred miles. We might bring
every dollar in here, and live within fifty
cents on the dollar and save the other fifty
cents. How long would it take the men to go
down to the bed rock, where we were brought
up? I can see women who when they were
twenty years old six yards of calico was all
they asked for a gown, and that was good
enough to wear to meeting, or to a party; good
enough anywhere. If my mother and her
grandmother got one silk dress, an[-] they lived
to a hundred years old, it was all that they
wanted. I think my grandmother's silk dress
came down to her children. She put her silk
dress on when I went to see her. It was, I
think, her wedding dress; and she had been
married some seventy years.
	Some of the ladies wear a silk dress and say,
"husband, I w[-]nt another silk dress, I have
had this four years." Learn to be prudent. It
is no skill to get money, but it is a skill to
know how to preserve it and make it increase,
and bring to you an abundance to build up
Zion, and purchase what we want.

[Column 2]
	I wish to say a few words to my sisters in re-
gard to raising silk. I would like to talk just
enough to have you do something in this di-
rection. This is a matter that I have talked
upon for a great many years. Soon after I first
came to the valley, I sat on a load of hay in
Salt Lake City, and said, "this atmosphere is
full of silk and all good things; and we will
prove it to be one of the best places for raising
silk." We have proven that we can raise it.
There are sisters here who can reel it and make
it into cloth. There is a sister before me with
a silk dress on; she raised the silk, and made
it herself; and I warrant it will wear four
times as long as any you can buy in the stores.
(By invitation the sister arose that the congre-
gation might see the dress) I want to en-
courage you in this industry. If you want a
little change, you can very easily get it by
raising silk. Silk that we raise here, when it
is reeled, is worth from $8 to $14 a pound. It
is always a cash article, and finds a ready mar-
ket. There is no day in the week, or month in
the year, but what you can find a market for
silk, and get the money for it. I wish the sis-
ters would think of this. A few pounds of silk
gives you a little money. It is easily raised.
Where there is a little care taken you can pre-
serve the eggs so that you can raise two crops
of cocoons in a year. There is no trouble to
preserve them in our ice-houses, until the first
are disposed of, and so you can keep the crops
growing along. You can raise more money
than the farmers, and beat them in the produc-
tion of wealth. Take a woman with her chil-
dren, and they will make twice the amount of
money by raising silk that the man can make
with the farm. If you will try it you will say
it is true.
			[To be continued.]


R. S. REPORT.

	BEAR RIVER CITY, Dec. 28th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
This is the financial report of the Ladies' Re-
lief and Young Ladies Mutual-Improvement
Societies for the year 1877:
Received							$44. 40
Disbursed to the poor				17. 25
In the Treasury					27. 15
Logan Temple						25. 00
	We have 155 bushels of wheat stored. We
have also a $275 share in the Co-op Store. The
elder and younger sisters here are trying to
unite themselves and carry out the counsels of
our late beloved President Young in regard to
storing grain, for we fully comprehend the im-
portance of this mission. The two Societies
are in a prosperous condition; we have been
reorganized lately by our Bishop, W. Neely,
and the following are the names of officers for
Relief Society; Christine Albertsen, President
Karen Christiansen and Trine Abrahams[-]n,
Counselors; Mary Hansen, Secretary; Karen
Christiansen, Treasurer. We have good, active
teachers.
	The officers of the Young Ladies Association
are: Anna Hansen, President; Christine Neeley
and Mary Hansen, Counselors; Mary Ipsen
and Julia Hansen, Secretaries; Mary Chris-
tiansen, Treasurer. We have very good meet-
ings, and the Lord blesses us abundantly in
our meeting together, and we all feel more and
more the important mission we have to per-
form as mothers and daughters in Zion.
	Wishing success for the EXPONENT and all
good enterprises, we remain your sisters in the
Gospel,
	MISS MARY HANSEN, Sec'y R. S.
	MRS. MARY IPSEN, Sec'y Y. L. M. I. A.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SERMON TO THE YOUNG.

		BY REV. W. F. HATFIELD.

	In the Eighteenth street Methodist Epis-
copal Church, New York, Rev. W. F. Hat-
field, the pastor, delivered the third of a
course of sermons to young men, on essen-
tials to success in life. The speaker began
by saying that there are few questions of
greater importance to a young man than
"How may I succeed in life? what is neces-
sary for me to do? what course shall I
adopt?" These questions have been asked
by every young man, and success in life
depends to a great extent upon the manner
these are answered and carried out. There
must first be an aim in life to warrant suc-
cess. Some have ridiculed the idea of
having an aim or laying out a definite plan.
They tell us that there is a providence that
guides the affairs of men and it will matter
little what plans are laid so long as there is
a divinity that shapes our ends. But are
we to suppose that Providence is going to
do everything for man; that this will build
houses, carve statues, paint and fashion,
and make money and gain knowledge, and
that man has nothing to do but receive
whatever God chooses to bestow? Those
who have been successful have found that
while God has given them faculties for ac-
quiring knowledge they had to do their
part in educating these faculties, and in
having some definite object in view for
which to labor. Columbus, Wilberforce and
Washington each had an aim, and they fol-
lowed it until they gained the object for
which they so long and persistently strug-
gled. Temptations that lead to evil must
be strongly resisted. One young man sees
another of his own age who is
	LIVING WITHOUT WORK.
He has soft hands, wears kid gloves, flour-
ishes a cane, smokes cigars, rides in the
park, dresses expensively, and has an easy
time, and he feels that he ought to have an
easy time too. No man ever became wise,
useful or great who was an idler. But you
say, "I would work, but there is no work to
be found; nobody wants to hire, times are
so hard." If the thousands of men who
are out of employment in this city—many
of them lounging about the parks—would
go into the country they could find work
there. There are fine farms in New Hamp-
shire turned into pasture land because there
are none to work them. The young men
have gone into cities to earn a pittance
there rather than live like princes on the
sod. Resist a temptation to accumulate
money by dishonorable means. Never in
the history of this country has there been
such a mania for making money fast, as
during the past ten or fifteen years, and in
the hot haste to roll up wealth little heed
has been given to the methods employed.
And even now there are too many who
think that the great end of life is to make
a fortune, and it matters little what means
are used that are not openly unlawful that
will secure the coveted boon. Another ele-
ment of success in life is to rely on one's
self. One reason why so many young men
never succeed is because they are too dis-
trustful of themselves. They are like a
man learning to swim who has used a life
preserver so long that he dare not venture
into deep water without it. If he would
become a good swimmer he must strike out
where the water is bold, relying on his own
strong arms, and so if a man would be suc-
cessful he must cut loose from all artificial
helps and rely on his own abilities.
	The most important requisite of all is the

[Column 2]
formation of a character according to the
teachings of the Bible. No man can hope
to succeed who discards the teachings of
the Bible. They are the foundation of our
laws, and of the laws and jurisprudence of
the best governed countries on the globe.
It is here we learn that if we would be
really great we must be really good, and
that our highest happiness in time and eter-
nity only can be secured by having our
characters molded by those principles that
are the foundation of the Christian faith.


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
			PIPSEY PAPERS.

	The net was cast into the sea, and it
gathered of all kinds. If there were not
bad as well as good among us this would
not be the net spoken of by the Savior; but
judging by appearances we are in the right
net.
	I called upon some friends a short time
ago, and found them very much annoyed
by the neighbors where they resided: feel-
ing as though they were rude, dishonest
and disobliging: in fact, anything but what
Saints should be. No doubt this was all
true, but what can we expect if the net
gathers of all kinds? Should we not look
for variety? Are there not spirits brought
in which not even the gentle influence of
Christian life can refine, and as like begets
like, can we expect grapes of thistles, or
figs of thorns?
	This is an age of progession, and yet how
hard it sometimes seems to progress in the
right direction. The Gospel of Christ em-
braces all purity, virtue, goodness and re-
finement; but some of us have been forced
to pass through so many trying scenes, so
many hardships, that only the roughness of
our natures could survive the conflict. God
says His saints shall be as gold refined in a
furnace. I sometimes think we are passing
through that purifying ordeal, when I see
the trials and afflictions this people are
called upon to encounter, the aggravating
circumstances we are sometimes placed in,
and the hardships we have to endure.
	Mr. Tullidge in his last work has called
the Mormon women Spartans; but they
were not born Spartans; they did not in-
herit hardship as their right, nor constitu-
tions to battle with it. Those who have
passed through the most hardships, were
born and bred among the delicacies and re-
finements of civilization, and inherited the
tastes and dispositions pertaining to their
early life and training. I have sometimes
thought it was small cause for wonder, if
they should become rude and selfish; in
fact, the wonder is that the better part of
their natures was not altogether lost, the
tenderness and sweetness burned out by
the cruel, seething fires through which
they have been called to pass.
	But there was heroism in the tenacity
with which they clung to their faith, al-
though some faltered and turned away, and
some fell by the wayside, as many a lone
grave will testify all the way from Kirt-
land to Missouri, from Missouri to Nauvoo,
from Nauvoo to Salt Lake. Grand trage-
dies like great wounds are sometimes borne
because the suddenness of the shock leaves
no way of escape. Like great wounds, too,
comes the time of healing, the lingering
agony, the slow convalescence, and many a
ghastly scar is left which no soothing cor-
dial or fantastic covering can smooth or wipe
away. The author of the "Women of Mor-
mondom" has sought to make a record for
the daughters of Zion. In historical items,

[Column 2]
so far as it goes, it is no doubt quite cor-
rect, but how little is told, how lfttle can
be told. Tongue could never speak nor pen
record a full account of their wrongs, their
sufferings and privations, the cares and dis-
appointments, the slow torture of hope de-
ferred, the wintry blasts, the scorching suns,
the weariness, the sadness, and the heart-
sickness, through which these Mormon
women pioneers passed.
	As little foxes spoil the vines, so the
small vexations and daily cares wear out
the strength and break down the courage.
He eulogizes them highly, and his eulo-
giums are well deserved; for if not born
Spartans, they certainly showed Spartan
heroism in their firmness and devotion to
the cause they had espoused. They felt
within their hearts the conviction that they
were obeying the commands of God, and
that He would overrule everything for the
best good of those who loved him and kept
His commandments.
	The editor of an eastern paper suggests
that "A Mormon Romance"—a tale show-
ing up Mormon wretchedness would be just
the thing. I think I could tell many a tale
of suffering, hardship and privation, but no
doubt it would not meet their approbation.
Something of a different nature from any-
thing I should portray would better suit the
public taste. They would invade our sanct-
uaries, open our closets, and drag forth the
ghastly skeletons for the pity or derision of
the world; or, finding no skeletons worthy
the exercise of their genius, they would
call imagination to their aid, and conjure
up some phantom of fright to intimidate
the weak, or amuse the ignorant.
	Writing on this subject reminds me of a
little incident that occurred during our
early pioneer life, which, perhaps, would
not be out of place in these columns. In
the winter of 1850-51 Salt Lake City was laid
out and fenced in wards, but the cross roads
were not yet fenced. Across the street
from where we lived was a vacant lot, on
which some one was preparing to build;
they had dug a well about sixteen feet deep,
which was about half filled with water.
During the winter the snow had fallen quite
deep, covering the ground and carefully
smoothing over all landmarks. Some days
after the snow fell, the wind raised and
blew very hard; it raged and howled dis-
mally, making us thankful for the bit of
shelter we possessed, and glad to draw
around the fire. Towards night, neighbor
Beech, who lived a little North-West of us,
came in to tell of an adventure he had had.
He said he kept hearing some sound, which
seemed different from the shrieking of the
wind, but so faint that he could not tell the
nature of it. After listening a while he
determined to investigate the matter. He
accordingly put on his great coat, and start-
ed out, following the direction of the sounds
until he reached the lonely well, where he
found a neighbor women, who, while cross-
ing the block without a path, had walked
into it. Her arms and clothing supported
by the snow, held her head above the water,
where, far below the surface, she had be-
come nearly exhausted with the cold and
her frantic efforts to make herself heard.
He procured assistance and released her
from the very unromantic situation, giving
her in the care of her friends. It caused
some merriment for the young folks, but
was no joking matter for poor Nancy, and
I will venture to say that she was careful
the next time she went out to follow the
proper road. How many of us in this life,
in leaving the right path and the advice of
friends, meet with unseen dangers. There
is many a pitfall for the unwary, and youth


and inexperience are often ensnared where
the way seems smoothest and most plea-
sant. MARY


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.	
[-]


MAY THE SISTERS PRAY IN PUBLIC?

	The question usually asked is, May the
sisters speak in public? Or it is, May the
sisters be excused from speaking? We sel-
dom hear the question which we have
chosen as our title. Not that the sisters
have settled it one way or the other. We
suspect the reason it is not asked is to be
found in the fact that it excites no interest.
The right of the sisters to speak is the only
one about which there is any inquiry, sim-
ply because, if we except singing, it is the
only form of participation in our social
meetings which they have taken into con-
sideration. But why should they not pray?
Why are there not as many sisters ready to
kneel and lead the people in prayer as to
arise and address it? Among the brethren
the case is different; there are more who
pray than who speak, and the task of speak-
ing is the greater of the two. But among
the sisters there are far more of those who
speak than of those who pray. How shall
we explain this difference? The right of
the sisters to pray in public is not ques-
tioned by anybody. But we do not think
this accounts for the circumstance that it is
scarcely ever exercised. There is no hint
in the Scriptures which can be tortured into
its denial. We cannot suppose, however,
that the sisters suffer it to lie in abeyance
for such a reason. We confess that we are
puzzled. But turning from our futile ef-
forts to solve the mystery, may we not com-
mend to the attention of devout women in
all our churches, the privilege of which
they do not avail themselves? The loss of
feeling and unction in our prayer meetings,
occasioned by the diffidence, or the consci-
entious conviction whicy keeps them from
exhorting, would not be felt if they would
join with men in prayers. We would not
urge this as a duty upon any who feel that
their nature shrinks from all publicity. The
delicacy of woman is a boon so precious
that we cannot afford to wound or mar it.
But if any are not deterred by their timid-
ity, let them lift up their tender voices in
social prayer, and aid the church in this
holy exercise.
	[A little inquiry would satisfy our broth-
er, we think, that the propriety of the sis-
ters praying in public is questioned by the
same persons, and for the same reasons, that
their speaking in public is. This journal
published some articles a few years ago,
understood to be from the pen of a layman,
in which that ground was distinctly taken,
and in support thereof the writer cited 1
Tim., 2:8, sq., "I will therefore that the
men pray everywhere," etc.—ED. WATCH-
MAN.


MARIA MITCHELL AT THE BOSTON
UNIVERSITY.

	Maria Mitchell, professor of astronomy
at Vassar College, recently gave what she
called "a gossip lecture" to the young wo-
men students of Boston University College
of Liberal Arts. The gossip was of a charm-
ing character, being a lively description of
a visit in the family of the astronomer, Sir
John Herschel. Besides personal details,
it included a sketch of the mental charac-
teristics of this remarkable family of as-
tronomers, Sir William Herschell, his sis-
ter Caroline, and his son Sir John, as well
as a brief resume of their contributions to


scientific knowledge by way of discovery
and investigation. The good sense and
fine wit of the speaker found in these fresh
materials abundant opportunities for point-
ing a lesson and inviting diligence in the
acquisition of sound knowledge.
	It was a notable sight, this white-haired,
noble-browed woman, whose scientific at-
tainments have been recognized by the
learned of both hemispheres, surrounded
by a group of thirty or forty fresh, eager
girls, who are standing on the threshold,
preparing to follow similar pursuits. In
such a presence every sense and faculty is
inspired to its noblest and best develop-
ment; the believer is uplifted, the doubter
is shamed, the critic and theorist are si-
lenced. 					E. T.
	—EX.


[Column 1]
		GRAIN ITEMS.

	KANOSH, MILLARD CO, Dec. 13, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	In compliance with the notice published
in the EXPONENT, we send you the follow-
ing report of grain stored in this city.
	We have stored wheat to the amount of
one hundred and thirty-one bushels, and
have more owing to us from the Sevier
River, which we expect shortly; we have
also one hundred and sixty pounds of flour.
We have a little means in quilts with which
to purchase more when an opportunity
offers.
	We have been pleased to read the reports
of wheat; it is quite encouraging to see
how energetic the sisters have been in stor-
ing grain for Zion, and our prayer is that
the Lord will bless their labors.
	We remain your sisters in the labors of
Zion,			ADELIA A. KIMBALL.
				ADELAIDE PAXTON, Sec'y. 

		WALLSBURG, Jan. 9th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We send you a few items in regard to our
Relief Society in this place. Since writing
to you Apr. 18th, 1877, we have added to our
store of wheat twenty-six bushels and six
pounds which makes in all for the year 1877
sixty-six bushels and six pounds; and we
intend to do all we can in regard to saving
and storing grain, although wheat is scarce
here owing to the early frosts last season.
The sisters have donated very liberally ac-
cording to their means. At present we
have no place of our own to put our wheat
in, but one of our good brethren has kindly
loaned us a bin in his granary until we are
able to build one of our own. We continue
to hold our meetings twice a month which
are generally very well attended. The ma-
jority of the sisters are willing, and anx-
ious to perform all the duties required of
them.
	Hoping we may do better this coming
year than we have done in the past, and be
more punctual in reporting, we remain your
sisters in the Covenant,
				NANCY WALL, Pres't.
				SARAH GLENN, Sec'y.

		CEDAR CITY, Jan. 10th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place has been
storing grain, in accordance with the coun-
sels of our late President Brigham Young,

[Column 2]
which I consider a great enterprise and an-
other of his fatherly thoughts for the bene-
fit of the poor.
	Our beloved bishop kindly granted us a
room in the Tithing Office, for the storing
of grain, and we have sacked up there one
hundred and sixty bushels of wheat; we
have other property that we intend to turn
into grain as soon as an opportunity offers.
	I am happy to inform you that our worthy
President, Sarah Uric, and her counselors
are alive to their duties, teaching right-
eousness and exhorting the sisters to be one
in all things—in feeding the poor, in pay-
ing our offerings, in donating to build Tem-
ples, and in everything that is calculated to
save and exalt, and raise us in the scale of
intelligence.
	The New Year has come in, and the old
and the young have enjoyed themselves in
the dance; good order and peace prevailed.
The parties break up in good season, re-
membering the counsels from head quarters.
	I am proud to say that the brethren gen-
erally feel like going into co-operation and
bring out the many facilities that we have
around us to make us self-sustaining and
independent of Babylon.
	The young ladies of the Retrenchment
Society feel the necessity of improving
their minds and laying aside the follies of
Babylon, which is advisable to mothers as
well as daughters.
	God grant that we may be just, and our
walk and conversation of that nature that
will claim respect from the righteous.
						A. E. W., Sec'y.


IS IT NOBLE OR WEAK?

	The following is an extract from a letter
of a young lady to her lover, in regard to a 
friend (her room-mate at Vassar), who is to
marry a missionary destined for Persia.  It
is a strong, terse, graphic statement of a
case whose like not unfrequently occurs.
If every young lady who is engaged would
thus speak frankly, the wrongs which her
future husband either consciously or uncon-
ciously infilcts upon her would be less
grievous.
	"You men ought to be very happy, very
good, very tender of your wives.  It is a
continual mystery, how uncomplainingly,
cheerfully, even gladly, a woman will give
up all she has loved, sought, known, or
hoped for, and will set about tasks the most
hated, for the sake of the man she loves.
	This is one of the most striking examples
I ever personally knew.  Here is a woman,
whose wealth, education and talent would
fit her to fill almost any position open to
woman, and who, more than any woman I
ever saw, hates the petty details of the or-
dinary woman's life, and yet who is anx-
iously pining for the time when she can cut
and make her own dresses and perhaps cook
her own food in northwestern Persia.  All
this, on account of a man who, I will war-
rant, has not half her talent, but who will
swallow her up probably without a pang of
conscience.
	I pray she may not, as probably ninety-
nine hundredths of such women do, stake
all and lose.  I wonder how long Mr. C—
(her lover) would entertain the thought of
abandoning his profession to turn a grind-
stone and split kindling in Central Africa,
for the sake of being with Katharine?  I
can fancy his saying that it would not be
his duty to do so.  Is it a woman's duty?
Is it noble, or is it weak?		C. F. T.
	Andover, Mass.


136		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	THE ladies of Amesbury, Mass., have given
Mr. Whittier a birthday present of a Russian
leather portfolio containing sketches in wa-
ter-colors of Amesbury scenery by an Ames-
bury artist. Many of them illustrate the
scenes with which Mr. Whittier has bright-
ened his poems.

	THE study of law is invaluable to the
practical philanthropist. The strongest thun-
derbolts ever hurled at the system of slav-
ery were forged on the anvil of law. The
most powerful weapons used against the
liquor traffic are obtained from the same ele-
mentary principles of justice and equality
					—Lavinia Goodell.

	IN Rome public education under Govern-
ment auspices is increasing. There are
now forty-six common schools for gratui-
tous instruction, and ninety-four private
schools. Before 1870 few were the child-
ren of the poor who could read or write.
Now it is a badge of reproach for a family
not to send its children to school. Several
of the monasteries have been converted in-
to hospitals. Free libraries have been es-
tablished in different quarters of the city.

	IT will be well to disabuse women in gen-
eral of their erroneous ideas concerning a
literary career. A woman must not expect
to find any play when she adopts literature
for a profession. A practical writer leads a
life of "bona fide" drudgery. She may,
now and then, find her pet poems, or finely
written stories or essays, accepted and paid
for; but if she would make an actual living
at the business she must devote herself to
it.					—Mrs. E. B. Duffey.

	MR. Longfellow said at the Whittier din-
ner: "I do not know why I cannot make
an after dinner speech as well as other peo-
ple, but I cannot. I have made several at-
tempts and I have always noticed it to pro-
duce a depressing influence." Mr. Charles
Dudley Warner quietly begun his talk thus:
"Mr. Chairman—It is impossible to express
my gratitude to you for calling on me.
There is but one pleasure in life equal to
that of being called on to make an after-
dinner speech, and that is not being called
on. It is such an enjoyment to sit through
the courses with this prospect like a ten-
pound weight on your digestive organs."


[Column 1]
NOTICE.

All who may wish to purchase silk-worm
eggs can obtain them from Mrs. Dora Robinson
of Farmington. It would be well for those
who intend to purchase to secure what quanti-
ty they may need, and if desirable they could
leave them in Mrs. Robinson's care till it was
time to make use of them. Mulberry trees of
all sizes can be obtained from President
Young's farm, just south of the city, by apply-
ing to Wm. Rossiter, at the President's Office.
The trees are from five to forty cents apiece,
according to size.

GENEALOGICAL!
LATTER-DAY SAINTS who come from the States of
	New England, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania
or Delaware, or whose ancestors were native of either
of those States, who desire to obtain their Genealogies,
could not do better than to employ B. F. Cummings, Jr.,
who proposes to go [-]ast for that purpose during the
present Winter. Parties interested should send for Cir-
cular, giving terms and full instructions.
		Addr[-]ss,
						B. F. CUMMINGS, JR.,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

[Column 2]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOOK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descriptions.
			MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
AT
TEASDEL'S.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
			MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND RESIDENCE in 12th Ward on
2d South St., between 5th and 6th East Sts.,
six blocks East of Post Office.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
DRY GOODS,
IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY,
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE!
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES!
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


M. J. Raskelley

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, FEBRUARY 15, 1878.	No. 18


[For the EXPONENT.
		HURRYING HOME.

Hurrying home in the twilight's gray hour,
As night spreads her mantle o'er cottage and tower;
Home from the toils and the cares of the day,
And they at its threshold should vanish away.

Some pass along with a quick, joyous tread,
And some from whose pathway life's pleasures hath fled,
For some there are greetings of love and delight,
And others the shadow of sorrow's deep night.

And I read in each face as they pass swiftly by,
The light, happy heart, the tear and the sigh;
Can tell where the home-lights shine out through the
	gloom;
Can tell where the hearth-stone is cold as the tomb.

Children's fair faces pass swiftly along,
Like sunbeams they glance 'mid the hurrying throng;
Children so innocent, joyous and bright,
Oh, fain would I shield you from shadows of night.

Be not too eager to reach manhood's prime,
Childhood's the fairest, the sunniest clime;
Cling to its freshness, cling to its truth,
And gather sweet fruits from the garden of youth.

Here too I see the feeble and old;
Soon they'll be gathered to Christ and the fold;
Home-light will darken for them nevermore,
But ever burn bright on the "Golden Shore."

"No home" is stamped on this pitiful face,
In all this wide world she hath no place;
Ye who have homes, oh, think of the poor;
In mercy remember, turn not from thy door.

And draw not the curtains too closely, I pray,
But out through the gloom let the cheering light stray;
It may fall on some weary and desolate heart,
Who of life's blessings hath had meager part.

"Home, home sweet home," more precious than gold,
Half of thy value can never be told.
Make your homes "Rests" 'mid the toil and the strife,
Oasis green in the journey of life.
									HOPE.
			S. E. [---]sell


[Column 1]
			[For the EXPONENT.
TWO PAIRS OF HANDS.

	What! Have hands a history? yes; and
if you will put down your work and come
and sit beside me, I will relate to you their
story. You see those hands laid with such
exquisite grace on the black velvet and
cushion? Ah, yes; how soft and delicately
molded is each curve and outline. Thefingers taper to the waxy, transparent nail,
and the pink tips are just formed to press
the ivory of the piano. The fleah is white
and satin smooth. "How beautiful!" you
are led to exclaim, "are the hands of a fair
and delicate woman." As they lie there
in their fair beauty, bend the ear of your
imagination, and hear them tell their story:
	"We were cared for with all the tender-
ness a fond mistress could bestow on that
which adds so much to her appearnce in
society. The kid has been shorn, the finest
silk has been sought for, to protect us from
the sun and wind. Our owner would never
think of placing us to do that work which
belongs to the kitchen wench. Look at us
in our beauty! What good have we ever
accomplished? To be sure we glide softly
over the piano keys, or perchance fashion
some delicate garment for our owner. We
are taught to intertwine gracefully to en-
hance the glitter of the diamonds with
which we are adorned. We attract atten-
tion to our mistress, and help her to secure
to herself that admiration and flattery
which is the life of her life and aim of her

[Column 2]
soul. Oh, stay; you ask us what good we
shall have been the means of doing our
mistress in the next world, and what use
we shall be to her in the great eternity to
come? Oh, bless our hearts! why do you
suggest such disagreeable thoughts? Well,
our mistress says she is living for this
world, and if this life, which is only a drop
in the great sea of eternity, is all that she
cares for, we shall not trouble ourselves
about anything else. And when death
comes, we shall make a very lovely sight
to the mortal eye, crossed over the heart
that knew no higher aim than an assidious
care for us. We shall repay her at least."
	Ah, my friend, you turn away with a
sickening disgust from these white, useless
hands. Well, I blame you not. Just look
now at this pair of hard, seamed, dark
hands. The fingers firmly interlocked,
showing the force of character in her whose
life has been made up of toil. We will
listen also to them, and take to our hearts
and lives the lesson they will teach.
	"We are the servants of her who never
spends a moment upon us, but to cleanse
and dry the skin. We are always em-
ployed; no moment is laid on the altar of
time unless used in some way. Besides the
usual daily housework, we fashion a useful,
comfortable bonnet for some old lady friend;
put together in dainty form a hood to frame
a sweet baby face. We strive to help our
owner to make that which we handle dainty
and delicate, and to spare no toil to make
her home happy and cheerful for her moth-
er and two precious fatherless boys, rather
than seek to preserve our beauty at the ex-
pense of others' hearts and hopes. Yet
when sickness prostrates those around our
owner we are guided with loving tender-
ness over the suffering brow, and many an
agonized lip has pronounced our touch the
most soothing mortal can know. And we
are taken to the kitchen, to prepare that
for the sick which will comfort the body
while our gentle pressure soothes the throb-
bing brow. We have accompanied our mis-
tress to many a stricken home, and are
never tired of doing good. We will con-
fess to you, in strict confidence, that some-
times she whom we serve with such dili-
gence will look at us with discontent, and
actually murmur at our plainness. Yes, it
was painful, after we had done so much to
secure eternal happiness for her, and to
hear her complain of us and wish we were
otherwise. But then we forgave the weak-
ness and still served her faithfully. The
next world? Ah, indeed, we have no fear
of that; and when we are folded above the
heart which has never known guile, we
shall await with peace our call to come forth.
And there we will be honored for our good
works on this earth, and blessed by those
to whom we have ministered in this life."
	Are not those hands lovely to you now,
my friend? They are to me, and I some-
times reverently kiss them for the noble
work they are doing.			S. Y. D.
	St. George, Jan. 28.


IT IS said that it costs $177,444 a year to
supply the American army with tobacco.
"The extravagance of women is ruining
the country!"


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MRS. EMMA Gates Conklin is the editor
of the New York "Palladium," a monthly
publication, "devoted to Literature, Poetry,
Music, and the best interests of our coun-
try—socially, morally, and politically."
	"DO ALL women vote in the cities of
England, or only tax-payers and house-
renters?" asks a subscriber. Only unmar-
ried women and widows who pay a tax on
property or who rent a house can vote,
these being the same qualifications as are
required of male voters.
	MRS. SOPHIE B. Herrick, whose micro-
scopical studies, published in "Scribner's
Monthly" during the past year, have at-
tracted wide attention, has become perma-
nently connected with the editorial depart-
ment of that Magazine, and is now widely
recognized as standing in the first rank of
American scientific women. A touch of
her quality can be found in the review of
Joseph Cook's "Biology," recently pub-
lished in "Scribner."
	PARLIAMENT MET on Friday, Jan. 17th.
The Queen did not open the session in per-
son, but sent her speech to be read. It is
mainly about the Eastern War. She says,
"Hitherto, neither of the belligerents have
infringed the conditions on which my neu-
trality is founded, and I willingly believe
both parties are desirous to respect them,
so far as it may be in their power. So long
as these conditions are not infringed, my
attitude will continue the same. No efforts
on my part will be wanting to promote a
pacific solution of the points at issue and
the termination of the war." She solicits
the liberality of Parliament to supply means
for adequate preparation and to adopt mea-
sures of precaution, should hostilities be
unfortunately prolonged.
	In the debates on the Address in the
House of Lords, Earl Granville called Lord
Beaconsfield to account for making utter-
ances during the recess in a tone of bellig-
erent neutrality, and for differing from the
sentiments expressed by his colleagues;
said if Russia's assurances were unsatisfac-
tory, Parliament should have been called
together immediately; but if satisfactory,
summoning Parliament now was to cause a
feeling of insecurity. To which Lord Bea-
consfield replied, that when the summons to
Parliament was issued, there were pros-
pects of peace negotiations; he repudiated
what the newspapers say about the policy
of government, and emphatically what
they say about a divided cabinet; he de-
clared he had written no letter during re-
cess, and had spoken but once, and then in
the presence of his colleagues; that Lord
Derby's felicitous statement, that "the
greatest British interest is Peace," was a
rhetorical expression, but Lord Granville
seemed to take it as a statistical fact; that
the government considered that there were
British interests which must not be endan-
gered if the contest goes on. There was
another kind of isolation than that arising
from decay. England once alone asserted
her national independence. The Duke of
Argyle said that Lord Beaconsfield's speech
was brilliant and evasive.—


138		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

RESIDENCE ELDER JOHN PACK,
					Jan. 17, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Minutes of the Meeting convened to or-
ganize the young ladies of the 17th Ward
into a Mutual Improvement Association.
	Present, by invitation, to assist in organ-
izing the young sisters, Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. Hyde, President of the Relief Society,
with her counselor, Mrs. S. Reese, and other
assistants in office. Meeting conduced in
the usual manner by singing and prayer;
after which Miss E. R. Snow stated the ob-
ject of the meeting, and gave a brief ac-
count of the Juvenile Society of the ward.
Said "about four years ago, some little
girls went to the Bishop, and requested to
be organized into a Society; their request
was treated somewhat coldly, as the Bishop
did not understand what they asked of
him. However they persevered, and went
a second time. It is presumed that the
Bishop had seen Pres. Young concerning
their request, in the meantime, for he told
them that they could have the Meeting
House to hold meetings in at any time, and
blessed them.
	"I always admired that move, and to-day
bless those girls. But now it seems wis-
dom that the older sisters engage in this
organization. Many of the young sisters
have had experience in this matter, yet the
older ones should take the lead, that all
might be combined and work together. I
think the young married ladies should be-
long to this Association, and every girl as
soon as she is baptized. The organization
of these Associations is as much a revela-
tion as that of the Relief Societies; the one
came through Joseph Smith, the other
through Brigham Young, and if I was to
choose between the two organizations, I
should choose the one for the young, so many
of whom, for the want of such spiritual cul-
ture, have gone to destruction.
	"When we first came here there were no
regular schools; but as soon as we obtained
the necessaries of life, attention was turned
to educating the children mentally, but as
they were born in the Church, and heirs by
right to the kingdom, no thought was be-
stowed upon their spiritual culture.
	"The world educate their children to the
highest mental standpoint within their
reach. But we had come out of Babylon,
and thought we had left her behind; but
the spirit of the world had crept in among
our young people, and we had Infidels
among them, children of good parents; and
the question was asked, 'What will become
of our children?' and no one knew, until
the Lord spoke, and we were commanded
to organize and teach them.
	"We were met with scorn, but we had
our mission, and we have worked from then
until now. Many of the societies have
broken up, yet some have remained true to
their integrity; we knew the result must
be good, for the work was from God.
	"At first many of the girls were laughed
at for attending meetings, and scorned by
their associates; others met with more en-
couragement; the mothers became inter-
ested, when they saw the result, for now
the girls could testify that the work was
true; before they supposed it was, for their
parents said so: now they knew it for
themselves. So far the results have far
exceeded our expectations, and there are
many splendid Secretaries among the young
ladies.
	"On one occasion Pres. Young met with
us in our General Meeting, and heard the

[Column 2]
young ladies read their minutes, and he
remarked: 'Two-thirds of the men in Con-
gress could do no better than that.'
	"Pres. Young gave Elder Junius Wells
the mission to go through the Territory
and organize the young men; but the young
ladies have got the start of them, and
know better how to conduct their meetings;
but the young men are progressing and
moving steadily forward.
	"I want you young ladies to become quali-
fied that when the queens of the earth come
here, you can instruct them in the princi-
ples of the Gospel. In your meetings have
good reading—selections from good books—
and I must say many of the selections I
have heard read were as good as I could
make myself.
	"In the early days of the Church, the
young took delight in the work, and it was
no uncommon thing for the children to
speak in tongues, and have the blessings of
the Gospel poured upon them. But chil-
dren get no more than they earn, either of
the spirit of the world, or the Spirit of God.
No one can get the knowledge of God any
cheaper than Peter got it, when Christ said
'Flesh and blood did not reveal this unto
thee, but my Father who is in heaven.' I
remember in the early days some little
girls met together to hold meeting. They
sang and prayed and appointed their
speakers; but as they were sincere, the
Lord poured out His Spirit upon them and
they spoke in tongues and were so happy
that they had to tell of it.
	"Now some one must preside over this
Association, and I see before me many
young ladies who could preside with digni-
ty, if they would exercise their ability,
aided by the Spirit of God. We can use
any one who is willing to do His will. Wo-
man's duties are increasing year by year,
therefore, my sisters, prepare yourselves
for high and honorable callings. I propose
Miss Belle Clayton as President of this As-
sociation, but none of you need vote for
her, if you do not think this a wise choice."
	After some deliberation it was moved
and passed without a dissenting vote, that
Miss Belle Clayton be President, and Mrs.
Maria Dougall, Miss Ida Felt, Miss Phoebe
Tingey, and Miss Emmerette Brown were
nominated and sustained as her Counselors;
also Mrs. Josephine Smith, Secretary, and
Miss Denie Pack, Assistant Secretary of the
Association; Miss Lucy Smith, Treasurer,
and Miss Hortense Lang, Treasurer of the
"Penny Fund" for the Temple. All these
officers were elected by unanimous vote.
	Mrs. Julia Howe who had been Assistant
Superintendent of the Juvenile Society,
said she felt as if these young girls were
her own children, for they had been asso-
ciated together so long and she had learned
to love them dearly. Said they had done
well; these little girls had actually made
thirty yards of carpet, which had been do-
nated to the Temple. Said she should al-
ways be interested in their welfare, and
should miss their society.
	Twenty young sisters came forward and
their names were enrolled as members of
the Association.
	Pres. Mrs. Hyde said she was much
pleased with the proceedings to-day, and
felt that the President chosen was the right
one, and added her blessing, and prayed
that God would give his Spirit to guide the
young.
	Sisters R. M. Carrington, J. Pack, M. A.
Pratt, H. Doremus, J. Smith, Denie Pack,
Ida Felt, Phebe Tingey, Hortense Lang,
Edith Smith, Melvy Calder, Ella Dallas. E.
Groesbeck, Mary P. Young, Eliza Kettle,
S. Reese, Vinnie Clayton, and L. D. Alder

[Column 3]
each made some wise and interesting re-
marks to the young ladies, encouraging
them to move forward in their new organ-
ization.
	Sister Snow advised them to be punctual
at their meetings, and make them short
but interesting.
	Pres. Miss Clayton appointed the next,
meeting for the young ladies at her house
on Wednesday afternoon of next week at 3
o'clock.
	Pres. Mrs. Hyde adjourned the Relief
meeting until two weeks from to-day at 2
o'clock. Meeting closed with singing and
prayer.
		MRS. L. D. ALDER, Secretary.

	MANTI, SANPETE Co., Jan. 24th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	It is not often that we occupy any space
in your much esteemed paper, but I hope
that a short report of the doings of the
sisters of our ward will not be unaccepta- 
ble. The building of the Temple and new
meeting house in our midst, calls for our
best energies, and the sisters feel that a
certain amount of the responsibilities thus
created naturally falls upon them, and are
ready to respond freely and voluntarily to
the demands of the times. . It is, therefore,
gratifying to be able to report the flourish-
ing condition of all the enterprises we have-
undertaken. Under the guidance of our
much beloved and esteemed President,
Sister R. Wareham, we have commenced 
storing grain, and have already several
hundred bushels on hand. Our Society
Store is also doing well, having doubled
our capital from the time we started, about
eighteen months ago. This ought to speak
well for the management, and the interest
the sisters take in it. The general authori-
ties have the full confidence of the com-
munity, good feeling prevails, and a spirit 
of generous rivalry pervades all; our pre-
siding sister has determined that the gen-
tler sex shall not be behind in fulfilling the
duties and meeting the responsibilities with
which the times are pregnant. And thus
the good cause moves on, and we look for-
ward with anticipations of a glorious fu-
ture. 
	It is with extreme sorrow that we chroni-; 
cle the demise of one of our members, Sis-
ter Maria Bench, who was interred to-day.
She was an exemplary wife, good member,
and always punctual to the duties of the
hour, and her family have the sympathy
of the whole community. "Peace to her
ashes."
	Your sister in the covenant,
							W.C.


﻿IN THE city of Haverhill, Mass., several
hundred women pay taxes on $559,480.
They are going to petition the Legislature
for a right to vote in municipal elections.


NOTICE.

	All who may wish to purchase silk-worm
eggs can obtain them from Mrs. Dora Robinson
of Farmington. It would be well for those
who intend to purchase to secure what quanti-
ty they may need, and if desirable they could
leave them in Mrs. Robinson’s care till it was
time to make use of them. Mulberry trees of
all sizes can be obtained from President
Young's farm, just south of the city, by apply-
ing to Wm. Rossiter, at the President’s Office.
The trees are from five to forty cents apiece,
according to size.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
		ESTRANGED.

And hast thou shut and locked thy heart
	Against me? Nay, not so.
Whom once I loved, I ever love;
	I cannot let thee go.
Thou, who hast dwelt within my love,
	Winning thy place so well:
Ah! must we say goodbye to hearts?
	I cannot say farewell.

Thou, who alone didst watch my bed
	Of sorrow, pain and fear;
While wintry night raged dark and wild,
	And death seemed all too near.
Can I forget those dream-like days,
	When, resting in thy care,
I traced the wanderings of thy songs,
	Upon the charmed air?

E'en if some idle word let fall,
	(As leaves float on the wind)
Long wandering, to thy gentle heart
	Its way at last did find,
Ah! who would weigh it 'gainst the past,
	With all its memories dear?
Not thou, or I, who know so well,
	Life's holy mission here.

Ah! who would take the perfect rose,
	Love on its heart had worn,
And counting not it's loveliness,
	Treasure alone the thorn?
I could not sing in heaven, if there
	A loved face turned away,
Unreconciled; 'twould chill my joy,
	E'en in that perfect day.

Though life be long, and earth be wide,
	All vain to turn away;
We oft shall meet, amid that throng,
	Who walk the narrow way.
When we shall meet beside that gate,
	Thou wilt not answer no;
Thou'lt know with joy my patient faith--
	For I have loved thee so.
Jan. 1, 1878.		AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.


[Column 1]
			[For the EXPONENT.
A VISIT TO ORDERVILLE.

	The day dawned bright and beautiful. It
was the Sabbath. I had looked forward to
this day, desiring to visit my dear Colima's
grave. The sun had warmed the air. I
started from Glendale, with my little boy
to keep me company. In the twelve last
years, since I left there, everything had
changed, except the everlasting hills. The
road ran on the east side of the valley in-
stead of the west, and all the crossings of
the creek were different. We walked up
the dugway, through a small but fragrant
grove of cedars, and crossed a creek. Noth-
ing familiar here told of the fatal accident
that called my child so suddenly into the
land of spirits. No familiarity of scene or
associations called to my mind the bitter
memory of the past, which connected me
in thought and feeling to the place. Over
ploughed ground and grassy pastures we
continued our way, through shrubs and
willows, where cattle grazed all unconscious
of my aching heart and the terrible re-
membrances awakened by nearing the place
of death; a small stream of water was
crossed, and before me was the knoll where
my beloved child was buried. I hastened
to the grave; it was concealed by shrub-
bery growing in wild profusion, and
smoothed by the hand of time, but the
mother's memory always discerns quickly
such precious earth-spots. With tears and
prayers I consecrated the spot anew, and
after an hour spent at the sacred place on
this holy Sabbath day, we proceeded on
our way to Orderville. As we rounded the
Yellow Mountain we came in sight of Or-
derville. Then we crossed a field and
passed by the vineyard and we found our-
selves at the village.
	I had some strange impressions as I
looked at the long line of low houses built

[Column 2]
of wood, and thought what havoc the fire-
fiend could make among them.
	I stopped at the house of a friend, who
was delighted to see me, and she exclaimed
in her amazement, "If you had dropped
from the skies I should not have been more
surprised."
	After a lively chat, asking and answer-
ing questions, she went out and soon re-
turned with a warm meal ready to serve.
"See how quickly I've got dinner," she
said; "its no trouble here; all you have to
do is to go to the cook-room and it is all
ready." To my inquiries of How do you
like the United Order? the answer was
from those interrogated, "I would not live
out of it for the world." Sister Maria took
me to the dining-room at sundown to see
the children at the table. There were three
long tables filled with happy, healthy, mer-
ry children, whispering and talking low
among themselves, waiting the arrival of
Sister Harmon. She entered, pronounced
the one word "Silence," and all were still.
The blessing was asked, instructions in po-
liteness given, and Sister Harmon said:
"Children, you must not throw a crumb
of bread under the table, or waste any-
thing, you know that famine is coming."
Contentedly the little ones ate their plain,
simple food and quietly passed out.
	I met one after another of friends and
acquaintances, who expressed surprise and
pleasure, until the emotions of the day al-
most overcame me. A few hours before I
had stood by the grave of my beloved child,
now I was meeting old and tried friends,
awakening memories and incidents of trial,
fatigue, sorrow, joy, gladness, all inter-
mingled in the remembrances that crowded
upon me. I met two strangers, who, by
their kindly greeting and sisterly manner,
seemed like old friends. Many varied
scenes crowded close one upon another,
crowned by this last—the glimpse of life
in Orderville. While chatting with Myra,
another dear friend, Maria, entered, and
asked me if I would like to go in to prayers.
I assented gladly, and followed her to the
dining-room. The tables were fast filling
with men and women, old, middle-aged
and young. When all were seated a hymn
was sung, then a prayer offered, and all
partook of the same plain fare as the chil-
dren had just had served to them. So
many persons gathered from all places, with
such a variety of tastes and habits, partak-
ing of the same kind of food, discarding
tea and coffee, and abjuring the proverb
that "What is one man's meat is another's
poison." After greeting and interchanges
of the kindliest feelings, I looked round
the room, and my heart swelled within me.
I was really among those who had estab-
lished and were carrying out an Order of
union, as near perfect and complete as
seemed possible in this state of existence.
The feeling of love and union that existed
there was strongly akin to the heavenly
feeling in the St. George Temple, and I re-
alized that some day, if they keep the same
spirit, they will be among the mighty and
wealthy of the earth.
	Supper over the room was cleared and
prepared for the evening meeting, which
was well attended—preaching by Mission-
aries from Kanab. After the meeting was
over, seated around a bright cedar fire,
which sparkled and glowed, filling the
room with warmth and light, we talked of
the past, present and future.
	That night after retiring, sleep disdained
to visit me until after twelve, for busy
thoughts were my companions. Morning
came; I breakfasted with my kind hostess,
who had been ill and was not yet recovered

[Column 3]
sufficiently to go to the general table, but
got her breakfast ready cooked. Doing all
the cooking in one place is an admirable
contrivance to save woman's time, instead
of a hundred getting breakfast separately;
a few do that work, and the time of the
rest can be employed advantageously at
other work.
	After breakfast we visited the cook-room.
The baker was making mush to mix with
salt-rising bread to eke out the flour, until
the milling was done. They have warm
bread for breakfast made with hop-yeast,
and salt-rising for dinner and supper. A
large boiler full of beef was in progress of
cooking, and two boys were preparing po-
tatoes for dinner, cabbages were waiting to
be cooked, dry bread was gathered up for
soup, a little boy was picking over raisins,
and dinner was being prepared for the
many. I saw the steamer in which the po-
tatoes are cooked over large boilers, or fur-
naces; the large, bright range, with its
capacity for cooking large quantities of food
and keeping it warm; the happy counten-
ances of the people in the next room at
breakfast, and I felt that here was a begin-
ning of something new—a step in the right
direction.
	The little that I saw I liked. Of course
the Order has both enemies and friends,
and there are many outside ready to find
fault and pick flaws, but my prayer is, may
the spirit of union and peace spread abroad,
until "The Order" will be the fashion, and
out of the order the exception.
					EMILY B. SPENCER.
	St. George.


COMMENTS ON CONGRESS-MEN.

	If Mary Clemmer's article in the New
York "Independent," is a true statement
of the Senatorial behavior, on receiving
Petitions from all the States for a Sixteenth
Amendment to the Constitution in favor
of Woman's Suffrage; the great majority of
that body fell into that trap, which a just
Providence permits to be set to divulge cor-
ruption. The manner in which the peti-
tions were received by the Senate, tells the
tale of the moral condition of that body.
	Men devoid of self-respect, do not re-
spect women. Want of true self-respect
bespeaks immorality; and immorality in
men, engenders in them disrespect for wo-
men.
	The very cause of this remarkable dem-
onstration, of petitions from all the states
and territories in the Union, is certainly a
full-grown corruption in the land; and the
petitions, an anti-act, against corruption.
The sagacious and heroic representatives of
a great reform, are bravely facing the very
centre of corruption, on its own premises,
meeting its most formidable foe in its own
chambers, to fight the battle on the enemy's
ground. Then and there commenced the
real battle, compared with which the past
has only been skirmishing.
	The insulted petitioners should have sent
detectives at the heels of those eminently
rude actors of the Senate, got possession of
a few details of their behavior "behind the
scene," and exposed it to the public gaze.
That would be a firm tactic, to commence
with, in crushing a powerful foe.
	But it is perhaps fortunate as it is; it will
rouse the energy of the petitioners, who
have backing enough not to relax their ef-
forts, in so good a cause, be their opposers
who they may.
							H. M.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS.			EDITOR.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
					Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

	SALT LAKE CITY, FEB. 15, 1878.


[Column 1]
		WOMAN’S PROGRESSION.

	The newspapers of the day among other items
of importance bring us good news of the pro-
gression of Woman's Cause. The past year has
given strength to the work by many large con-
ventions, calling together the strongest and
most powerful minds from different parts of
the country, and these women, earnest and
zealous, have presented in the most forcible
manner the ablest and most direct argu-
ments in favor of woman's elevation. The
right to equal opportutities of education is one
of the points in question, and much has been
done to give woman opportunities for cultiva-
tion in the higher branches of literature re-
cently. But many of those who do not direct
ly oppose it, (knowing woman has the best side
of the argument) sneer, and ridicule and insin-
uate, and in all sorts of indirect ways use their
influence to keep women from pursuing those
avocations that are considered the most eligible
for man.
	The better educated woman is, the more she
can accomplish for the good of all; the better
she can perform the duties of wife and mother
which we consider the highest duty except
obedience to God. One plea that many ad-
vance against woman's higher education, and
freedom, is that it will unfit her for the posi-
tion nature has assigned her as wife and moth-
er. But we sincerely believe it will only the
better qualify her. The mother who has
strong characteristics properly developed will
transmit them to her children in a marked de-
gree. This is a fact readily conceded by every
person of good judgment; then the more high-
ly educated the mothers are, the greater power
of intellect the children will inherit.
	So long has custom tyrannized over woman
to keep her in subjection, that it will only be
by small degrees women themselves can com-
prehend the advantages arising from the pro-
gress of independence of thought and action,
and a knowledge for themselves.
	The fields of usefulness now open to woman,
are widening every day. And there are some
good men—here as elsewhere, who welcome
her to the avenues which lead to a higher
range of intellectual and spiritual culture. But
men cannot walk by faith as women can, it is
not so much in their nature; they want facts
all the time, and the results of practise; and it
will take a little time to prove whether the
condition of society is materially benefitted by
woman's broader expanse of labor in the pub-
lic, as well as private interests of humanity.
Some things have been already proved; that
women are capable of mastering, as thorough-
ly and perfectly as men, the theory and prac-
tice of teaching, the science of medicine and
anatomy, and many other branches of educa-
tion and art. The one strong point that oppo-

[Column 2]
nents use is, that woman will lose her inde-
finable charm, designated womanliness, when
she can discuss knotty questions, has strong
opinions, can match herself with man in force
of character, and intellectual ability, instead
of sweetly assenting to whatever opinions he
may hold, smiling all the while he is pitilessly
crucifying all the finer feelings of her soul.
	Why is it not possible for man and woman
to love each other truly, and dwell together in
harmony, each according to the other all the
freedom of thought, feeling, and expression
they would grant to one who was not bound to
them by indissoluble ties; instead of the wife
giving all—that she may sit by his hearth, bear
his children, preside at his table, and merge
her life into his, to the extinguishing and crush-
ing out of all desires, ambitions, tastes, or capa-
bilities for anything save what he deems pro-
per, or right, his wife should engage in. Let
man also prove himself noble enough to share
with her such laurels as either may be able to
win in the battle field of life, instead of arro-
gating to himself the right to dictate to her in
all things, saying, "thus far shalt thou go and
no farther."
	We do not believe in pouring forth griev-
ances, or reiterating wrongs; these are not ar-
guments, and men will not have them; they
must be shown the happy side of the future,
not the dark annals of the past. That we
must leave—and we know there is One, Who
would not even suffer a sparrow to fall to the
ground without His notice. Jesus never turned
away from woman in scorn, or loathing; and
woman never sued to him in vain. Think of
this, you who sit in the courts of the nation,
and sneer at the mothers, wives and sisters who
entreat you to devise some methods to save
from wholesale destruction, by intemperance
and other crying evils, their sons, their bro-
thers, their loved ones, their fellow-men, or
allow THEM a voice in the laws of the land,
that will at least give them legal rights to pro-
tect themselves and their little ones.
	Of what are ye afraid? Has not woman ex-
tended to you the hand of sympathy, meted
out measure upon measure, pressed down and
running over with love and heavenly charity?
What more can she do to win your confidence
in her desire to improve the condition of all
mankind? Has she not unselfishly sought
your interest in everything which pertains to
home happiness! Will she slacken her efforts
to do you good because she has a wider field to
labor in, and greater inducements to stimulate
her exertions? No! woman's happiness can
never be complete without man's love; but
that love molded and tempered by its assimi-
lation to the exalted phase of woman—with all
her powers and attributes awakened to a su-
preme consciousness of her true mission as
man's real help meet, will give you participa-
tion in a purer sentiment, where there will be
scope for all the love implanted in the breast
of man.
	There is no doubt but that the concentrated
energies and eloquence brought to bear upon
Woman's cause in the National Congress, this
present year will be long remembered, and
even those who profess to think lightly of it,
and treated it with contempt and withering
sarcasm, will not be able to forget the sublime
enthusiasm, the dignity and grace with which
these noble women plead for the rights of
which they are unjustly deprived.
	There are some valiant workers in the cause
of woman's progression—we have them here
in our midst; women who are laboring ear-
nestly in improving and elevating the condi-
tion of society, whose efforts are untiring in
seeking to promote a higher and more exalted

[Column 3]
feeling and sentiment in the minds of the
young, than to spend their time in frivolity
and nonsense. Women who are prepared and
fortified to endure the sneers and opprobrium
of those who do not yet appreciate the cause
they have espoused; who in all humility seek
for the grace of God to aid them, in their ef-
forts to accomplish their noble purposes.
						E. B. Wells


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Municipal Election passed off more har-
moniously than appearances seemed to indi-
cate. The People's Ticket carried by a large
majority.
	The "Deseret News" of Tuesday 12 inst. con-
tains among other good items, an interesting
letter from Washington, by C. A. S., an inter-
view between Hon. George Q. Cannon, Dele-
gate from Utah, and the reporter of the Wash-
ington Post. In this encounter Br. Cannon
seems to have spoken very plainly and in lan-
guage not to be misunderstood.
	Dispatches tell us in reference to the death
of Pope Pius IX, that he was attacked with a
sort of suffocation or difficult breathing at 8
o'clock on Wednesday evening, the 8th inst.,
at 11 o'clock he was very much worse; then he
took the crucifix from under his pillow, and
blessed those around him. He afterwards
blessed the Sacred College at the request of a
Cardinal who was present. The Cardinals in
attendance relieved each other in praying by
the bedside. At 3 40, the corpse was livid.
Solemn masses and requiems for the Pope are
being held in large cities throughout the dif-
ferent countries where Roman Catholic Church-
es are established and great pomp and ceremony
are manifested on his account.
	The official report of the physicians who at-
tended the Pope, report the cause of his death
"Paralysis of the lungs." The Pope was to lie
in state three days in the hall of the con[-]i[-]tory,
after the preliminary congregation, which
took place immediately after his death. The
body will lie in the Basilics of St. Peter await-
ing the last ceremony. It is expected the cer-
emonies will continue nine days, after which
the conclave will close.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE UTAH "Musical Bouquet" No 10, Vol.
1, has been received, and we are pleased with
its contents, and gratified to know that among
other home productions, Utah has begun to de-
velop musical talent. We trust the Musical
Bouquet will find many friends and patrons in
the homes of the saints.

