VOL. 6.  SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1878.  No. 20.


[For the EXPONENT.
				QUESTIONINGS.

Sweet woman—child, that nestles near my heart,
With downy touch like birdlings in the nest,
What magic came with you to heal the smart
And kindle joy instead within my breast?
Brought low with woman's weakness, here I lie
And gaze upon my treasure bought with pain,
And pity you for woman's destiny,
And long to shield as mothers long in vain.

Life seems so hard to such as we, my love,
An endless round of weakness, toil and pain,
Of deep humiliations, longings vain,
And blind outreachings for the light above.
We love and suffer, daily offer up
Our hopes, our lives, our all that we can give;Self-sacrifice we drain as nectar cup;
For others only we are taught to live.

We're bidden to the last and lowest seats
The Master's servants at His table spread,
And given but fragments of the royal feast,
While with the rarest viands some are fed.
Our brother creatures in their haughty strength
Claim all the higher places for their own,
And say the gentle Master them has sent
To bid us come no nearer to His throne.

They say that from their hands we must receive
The bread of life which they may ask of Him—
Though they may follow Him to love and serve,
We must but love and serve and follow them.
While He rewards His own with wondrous powers,
With honors, kingdoms, crowns and lives divine,
We may have naught; our very lives be theirs,
And even you they'd tell me, are not mine.

Oh, darling! you have lately seen His face
And in His presence felt no diffidence;
Oh, tell! ere you forget or my heart break,
If now you are forever banished thence?
If after we have worn his crown of thorns
And borne, like Him, the cross, with bleeding feet,
To touch our outstretched hands He e'er will scorn,
Or send, not bring, the balm of healing sweet?

May we no longer touch His garment's hem
Without a brother's hand outstretched between?
Will His life-giving voice but quicken them
And leave us sleeping till THEY break our dream?
Is servitude our everlasting doom?
E'en high as man's hopes may we not aspire?
Because we here sit in the lowest room
Will Christ ne'er call us "Daughter, come up higher?"

Your mild, sweet, saintly eyes look into mine,
A slow, rapt smile breaks over your small face,
Your lips keep silence, solemn, sweet, divine,
But in your beatific look I trace
A glad assurance that the lowly Lord
Whose feet the Magdalen might bathe and kiss,
Who gave, not sent, to her His precious word,
Will end the cankering doubts in perfect bliss.
										LU DALTON.


OUR FUTURE LIVES.
	What are our future lives to be? Dwell
long upon this subject, and ponder it well
in your minds my young sisters.  Are we
to be useless, indolent women, mothers of
ignorant, rude, uncouth children?  Or will
we be useful, intelligent, noble-minded wo-
men, mothers of good, bright, noble boys
and girls?  Now, my dear sisters we can be
either, just which we please; just which
we qualify ourselves for; just which we are
capable of becoming and prepare our-
selves for.  If we will lead an indolent life
while we are girls; if we will spend our pre-
cious time in reading trashy novels, things
that we must forget if we ever become
worthy to fill high and holy positions; if
we will not read our Church books and in-
form our minds, obtaining useful knowledge,
we will undoubtedly remain ignorant, and


be inefficient mothers, not worthy of being
the means of bringing noble spirits into
the world; not worthy of the position God
designed for us; in short, not worthy of the
blessings of the priesthood of God.  But, if
on the other hand, we will spend a portion
of our time in reading good books, in stor-
ing our minds with the precious grains of
true knowledge; learn the principles of the
gospel of the Latter-day work; and become
acquainted with everything that tends to
enlighten our minds, or improve our men-
tal faculties we will be able to become use-
ful and intelligent mothers.  We will be
capable of training our children in that way
which will lead them to be men and women
of God, worthy of bearing the title of
Saints.
	Just think of the importance of the train-
ing of these little ones.  How many of us
take this into consideration?  How many
of us ask ourselves, what would I do if I
had a child, toward instilling in its young
mind the truth and wisdom it needs.  Some
will say, ah, well, there is time enough af-
ter we are married to begin to study on
these things.  Now young girls, it is not
going to do us any harm to think upon
this a little, and improve ourselves that we
may not have to account for a useless life.
Think how sweet and innocent the infants
are when they are given to their mothers,
little angels as it were, and how careful par-
ents should be to have them grow up just
as sweet, pure and innocent as it is possible
to develop them.
	It has been truly said many times "edu-
cate the mother, and you will elevate the
children."  Then let us educate ourselves
for a useful life, be humble, prayerful and
God will aid us.
MISS MAY B. EUNO.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	A BILL giving women suitably qualified,
permission to practice before the United
States Supreme Court, was passed in the
House of Representatives, February 21, by
a vote of 169 to 87.—Ex.
	THERE WILL be a Quarterly Conference
of the Association for the Advancement of
Women, held in Washington D. C. Wednes-
day April 10. At this Conference it will be
decided where the Sixth Congress of wo-
men will be held.
	THE ARGUMENTS of the delegates of the
National Woman Suffrage Association be-
fore the Committee on Privileges and Elec-
tions of the United States Senate in behalf
of the Sixteenth Amendment in favor of
Woman Suffrage, have been printed in full
at expense of the government. Also a pro-
test by Mrs. Dahlgren against Woman Suf-
frage.—Ex.
	ON MARCH 2d, the local government of
the province of Quebec, of which Mr. De-
boucherville was Premier, resigned. A
new ministry is forming under the lead of
Mr. Joly. The occasion of this change is
said to be the refusal of the Lieutenant-
Governor to sanction either the new tax
bill or the railway bill. There is great ex-
citement in the city respecting the politi-
cal crisis.

[Column 2]

	MRS. E. G. LEWIS in the March number
of "Woman's Words" in a gracefully writ-
ten article entitled "Ourselves," says:
"Daughters can help themselves by making
lighter the cares of the father and mother
as they journey along over the rugged paths
that lead to the River; and by early ac-
quiring a habit of industry and cheerful-
ness, and a determination to do whatever
may be theirs to do, believing they are
here for some other purpose than to occupy
space.
	SIXTEENTH AMENDMENT IN CONGRESS.
—The vote in the House Committee on the
Judiciary, upon the Sixteenth Amendment
granting Suffrage to women, stood five for
five against the proposition. It is alleged
that three of the opponents approve of in-
vesting women with the ballot, but insist
that such act of sovereignty belongs alone
to the States. The vote shows an immense
advance in the public sentiment. When, in
Congress, the House Judiciary committee
gives a tie vote in favor of Woman Suffrage,
every State Legislature may see how surely
the people are becoming ready to accept
this measure of justice. The States may
lead the way. The people of Massachusetts
are ready to-day. Will the legislature be-
lieve it, and act accordingly.—Ex.
	THE NEWS from England and the conti-
nent of Europe is very conflicting. Dis-
patches of the 27th ult., state that Russia
is understood to have indicated a disposi-
tion to make further concessions to Aus-
tria and some to Roumania, but it is sur-
mised by apprehensions of difference with
England; Germany has for the present
abandoned all idea of issuing invitations
to the Peace Congress. Vienna dispatch-
es of the same date said it was considered
the Congress had failed, and that Russia
must look to her own interest. There is
an opinion expressed by a German and an-
ti-Hungarian press, that by an Anglo-Rus-
sian war, Austria would gain power, as Rus-
sia must pay a high price for Austria's neu-
trality. Ignatieff it is said has arrived at
Vienna, and will commence negotiations at
once.
	THE CONQUEST of New Mexico and Cali-
fornia" is the title of a new book just pub-
lished. The author, P. St. Geo. Cook, of
the U. S. A., is thoroughly acquainted with
his subject having had charge of the troops
who marched across the desert wilds to ob-
tain possession of those two now important
countries. The book contains a map of the
route from Santa Fe to the Pacific Ocean.
It is graphically written in the style of a
Historical and Personal Narative, pub-
lushed by Putman and Sons, New York
City, and contains over 300 pages. We
think this book will be of special interest
to many in this Territory, as the noted
Mormon Battalion as it was termed, figured
conspicuously in that fatiguing and terrible
march. The Book is well worth reading,
and gives much information of the country
and its inhabitants, their manners, customs,
style of warfare etc. Mr. Cook in the close
speaks of the gold discovery by two of the
Mormon soldiers.—For sale at Dwyer's
Book Store, Main Street, price $1,50.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

NORTH JORDAN, SALT LAKE CO.,
Jan. 3d, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 Minutes of the meeting of the Young
Ladies' Improvement Association, held at
North Jordan Ward, Mrs. Mary A. Haigh
presiding.  Meeting commenced with usual
exercises; after which Counselor Eliza Ben-
nion stated that she was happy to meet
with so many of her young sisters, but felt
her inefficiency to instruct them in the
things pertaining to the kingdom of God.
She advised the girls not to speak evil of
one another, but try to obtain the confidence
of the sisters, and by their good actions to
retain it.  Alice Harker felt her incapabili-
ty of fully expressing her gratitude for the
innumerable blessings she had received
during the past year.  She realized that our
actions were not so commendable as they
might be, but thought it our duty individ-
ually and collectively to meet together and
make our Association as interesting as pos-
sible.  Select reading by Miss Isabella Web-
ster, entitled, "A Voice from Dixie Land."
	Sister Angeline Spencer bore testimony
to the goodness of God; felt that if we had
the spirit of this work our meetings would
not lack interest, and stated that we ought
not to neglect our meetings, for, by attend-
ing them, we obtain spiritual blessings,
which are essential to our life and salvation.
Sister Eliza Spencer, President of the Re-
lief Society, gave some very excellent ad-
vice to the young sisters, among which
were some instructive remarks on storing
grain, and sericulture.  She was much
pleased at the advancement the young la-
dies were making, and realized that we
were progressing favorably; advised the 
young ladies to obtain a testimony for them-
selves that this was the true Church, and
not rely upon the testimony  of others.  Her
hope of heaven and future life were far
dearer than all earthly blessings.
 Sister Moses spoke on the law of Celestial
Marriage, and advised the young sisters not
to speak a disrespectful word of this holy
principle, but if they did not understand it,
to pray to the Lord for wisdom, and He
would reward them by answering their pe-
titions.  Recitation by Alvina Harker, en-
titled "Hate of the Bowl."  Remarks were
made by other sisters, and a good spirit pre-
vailed.  Meeting closed by singing and
benediction.
MARY A. HAIGH, President.
HATTIE HARKER, Secretary.
VIRGIN CITY, KANE CO., Feb., 18, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
This is a small settlement with not
more than about  thirty families in all.  Our
people are very industrious and most of
them are living their religion.  Our Relief
Society meet once in two weeks.  We em-
ploy our minds and hands: to do good is our
motto. We make quilts and have donated
some of them to the Temple at St. George,
and Manti.  We assist the poor and the 
needy, the sick and the afflicted, for we de-
sire to do what is required of us knowing,
the Lord loveth the cheerful giver.  We
try to cultivate a spirit of oneness, and live
agreeable one with another.  Our Bishop
often meets with us and speaks very com-
forting words to us, and tells us that we are
a great help to him etc.  The Teachers vis-
it the members of the ward, and give in
their reports once a month, and that creates
a good feeling with us.  We read in our
meetings the EXPONENT and the Women
of Mormondom.  We are all in favor of 
laying up grain, although there is but little
raised here.  We have procured a few
bushels of wheat and our Bishop has given
us a bin in the Store-house to put it in, and
we expect to keep adding more.  We have
an interest in the factory at Washington, an
interest in the Co-op Store and also in the
sheep herd.  W[-] procured some silk-worm
eggs last spring and raised quite a few
worms, and have some cocoons on hand but
do not know anything as yet about reeling
or spinning the silk, but intend to learn as
soon as possible.  We take the EXPONENT
and are pleased with it.
	Wishing success to all your endeavors,
we remain your sisters, etc.
ELLEN PARKER, Pres't.
ELIZABETH D. GARDNER, Sec'y.

KANARRA, March 7, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 The Relief Society of this place being
desirous of recognition with other Societies,
offer a few items for publication.  Our So-
ciety was organized December 14, 1875, by
Bishop Lorenzo W. Roundy.  Officers elect-
ed and sustained:
Susanna Roundy, President.
Sophia Parker,        Counselors.
Mary Jane Perkins,
Lennie Allen, Secretary.
Deney Berry, Assistant Secretary.
Priscilla Roundy, Treasurer.
 We have also six Teachers.  We were
prospering, until the 24th of May, 1876,
when the sad accident of my dear husband
being drowned in the Colorado River cast a
gloom over all of us, and over the whole
town.  He was a kind husband, a loving
father, and O! how we miss him.  The
same summer we buried three grand-chil-
dren, and on April 19, 1877, Mary Jane
Perkins died of heart disease.  She was
the wife  of William I. and Betsey Willis,
aged thirty-five years.  She was one of my
Counselors, and was taken from our midst;
she was a good woman in our Society, was
on hand for anything that she could do, and
she was beloved of all who knew her, for 
the integrity of her heart.  She was one of
the working-bees of the hive of Deseret,
and we miss her very much in our Society.
No language can express my feelings when
I heard of her death.
 We are trying to do all we can for this
kingdom; we hold our meetings regularly
once in two weeks; there are but few at-
tend, but they are willing to do all they can.
We have made several quilts, and fifty or
sixty yards of carpet are ready to weave;
we have also some lace and tidies on hand,
and some money.  Last spring we set out
three hundred mulberry cuttings, but only
about a hundred lived; the water is so
scarce we could not get sufficient to water
them. 
	We have had a very disagreeable winter,
and there are a great many people sick; our
Secretaries are both ill, and have been all
winter, though they are getting better now;
when they recover we will send a list of all
we have done for the Temple and for the
poor. They keep strict account of all that
is done.  It is hard for us to store up grain
here, we cannot raise half what we use.
If we could make anything to sell for wheat
we would be glad to do so and store some
up here.  We beg an interest in the sisters'
prayers, that we may have strength to do
our duty.  We feel happy that we have
been working for the good of Zion.  We
feel well as a Society, and wish at all times
to be dictated by the Spirit of God, that
our efforts may prove successful.  Your
sister, &c.,
SUSANNA ROUNDY, Pres't.
CHESTER, March 10, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
Being a newly organized branch of the 
Relief Society, we thought a word from us
would not be out of place.  This small
branch was organized January 13, 1876,
with the following sisters as officers:
Sarepta C. Cowles, President.
Lucy Allred,                          Counselors.
Emma Heyward,
Hettie Allred, Secretary.
Annie Maria Madsen, Treasurer.
	We have eighteen members enrolled;
we meet once a month, and our meetings
are well attended considering the scattered
condition of our settlement; the sisters ap-
pear to enjoy meeting together and speak-
ing words of encouragement to each other
of the great work in which they are en-
gaged, and manifest a willingness to do
good by throwing in their mites, to assist
in starting a work which we hope will
prove a benefit and blessing in some future
day.  There appears to be a feeling of one-
ness and lenity one toward the other; we
desire to be one with our sisters of the
many branches of Relief Society in striv-
ing to carry out the instruction which we
receive from those who are placed at our
head to make our duties plain unto us.  We
desire an interest in the prayers of all
faithful Latter-day Saints that we may en-
dure to the end, and obtain the blessings
that are in store for the faithful, which is
the prayer of your sister and co-worker in
the Gospel, HETTIE ALLRED,
                                         Secretary.
SUGAR HOUSE WARD,
March 14, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
Brief report of a meeting of the Relief
Society, held in the Society Hall, Jan. 2d,
1878.  President Mrs. S. A. Gibson, presid-
ing.  After the usual exercises of singing
and prayer, the Financial report was read
for the year ending December 4, 1877:
Donations received.......................... $88. 25
Proceeds of Sister's Party, for New
Hall.................................................. 48. 75
                              --------
Total                                                 137. 00
Disbursements--To Temple fund.      28. 50
To Library....................................      21. 50
To plastering Sister Hall.............       25. 00
Blinds, stoves, chairs, lumber for 
seats............................................       25. 00
To the Silk Association.............. 2. 00
To the Poor................................. 25. 00
Cash on hand............................. 10. 00
                                  -----------
Total                                               137. 00
Grain, 34 bushels......................       34. 00
Much good instruction was given by
Bishop Appollos Driggs and his Counselor,
Brother E. Eldrege; they urged the sisters
to faithfulness and good works.  Said the 
mission of the sisters was very important;
counseled them to be diligent in the stor-
ing of grain for Zion.  Spoke upon the 
"signs of the times," and urged us to live
as becometh Saints of God.
Hoping our little paper, the EXPONENT,
may do much good, yours respectfully,
SARAH WHEELER, Secretary.


SINCERE friendship makes no loud boasts
but manifests itself by an eloquence which
exquisitely appeals to the soul.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		163


For the EXPONENT.
		MEMORY AND HOPE.

	O Memory, sweet memory!
		Come thou and sit beside me here.
	Is there no scene, or face, or tale,
		Your faithful pages can unveil;
	Wherein as in a mirror clear,
		I see my past sweet Memory?

	Hast thou forgot thine early home,
		Within the crescent Golden Gate;
	The gothic cottage, the oak trees
		With beards of moss swung to the breeze;
	The heath where sunset lingered late,
		And o'er the white doves floated home?

	Hast thou forgot that garden rare,
		With drooping lilacs, clinging vines;
	The marble vases latticed seat,
		The mirror-pond, the fern leaves sweet;
	The spell, while twilight stars did shine
		O'er shades that wrapt its beauty rare?

	Hast thou forgot those pictured halls,
		The rooms where music trembled low;
	And noble men and women fair,
		Their presence, beauty, lending there,
	Made life like dream-life, while came slow
		The steps of night within those halls?

	Hast thou forgot how Ocean's hymn,
		Uprose while sounds of daylight died;
	Calling ye round the mother's chair,
		Where ye two sisters knelt in prayer?
	Seeing last, her face thy couch beside,
		And last in dreaming cars, her hymn

	O Memory! sweet Memory!
		How sad the vision thou hast stirred!
	No more on earth, her face I see,
		Nor sister fair, who knelt with me,
	Where heaven was taught in every word;
		Nay, read no more, sweet Memory.
	Once, in the home by shadows thronged,
		Since our loved parents passed away;
	We, turning treasured pages o'er,
		Together tried to sing once more
	The music of departed days;
		But faltering voices checked the song.

	O! thou dear friend, sweet Memory,
		What He withholds, let us resign.
	Come thou, dear Hope, whose gentle speech,
		The Father's love, and wisdom teach,
	Illume with calm this heart of mine,
		To weep no more, with Memory.
					AUGUSTA JOYCE CROCHERON.
S. L. City, 1878.


[Column 1]

QUARTERLY CONFERENCE.

OF SALT LAKE CO. RELIEF SOCIETY.

	The First Quarterly Conference of the Relief
Society of Salt Lake County was held in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, on Satur-
day, the 23d of March, 1878.
	President John Taylor, President A. M.
Cannon, President Mrs. M. I. Horne, her
Counselors, Mrs. E. S. Taylor and Mrs. S. L.
Heywood, Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. Z. D. Young
and the majority of the Presidents of the Relief
Society of Salt Lake Co., occupying the stand
and platform. After the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, the Secretary read the re-
ports. There were thirty two reports read,
giving a statistical and financial account of
the condition and proceedings of all the
branches of the Relief Society in the County-
excepting East Mill Creek and Fort Herriman,
their labors and their advancement from the
date of their organization to March, 1878. The
donations received have amounted to upwards
of $50,000. When the full report to present be
fore the Annual Conference is compiled, a copy
will be sent to the Exponent, for the benefit
and instruction of its readers.
	After the reading of the reports, Mrs. Horne
said "I have been very much pleased in hear-
ing the reports; it is a great proof to me of the
energy and perseverance of the members of
the Relief Societies. I will not take up your

[Column 2]
time, as we have President Taylor and Presi-
dent Cannon with us, and would like to hear
from them."
	President Cannon:" While hearing the re-
ports read from the different Societies. I felt
very strongly the influence the Relief Societies
are exercising with the people. * * * We
are to be careful what impressions we make on
our children. Sisters, be sure and let them
understand you fulfill your duties and obliga-
tions to your God and to your religion. * *
I expect to have read, at the next Conference,
the amounts donated by the Relief Societies to
the poor, to Temples, to the Emigration Fund,
to purchasing grain, to buildings, to schooling
children whose parents are not able to do so,
&c. I pray that the blessing of the Lord may
rest upon your endeavors to do good."
	President John Taylor: "I appreciate the
acts and operations of the sisters. Your feel-
ing, spirit and desire is to do right, and to be
helps to your husbands and to the Priesthood
here on the earth. At times it seems we are
unable to do much, yet the Lord gives us
power to do that which He requires at our
hands. It is required of the Elders to send the
Gospel to the nations, then to gather the hon-
est in heart to Zion, then to organize and
strengthen her Stakes. Moreover, the man is
not without the woman, neither the woman
without the man in the Lord, and while we
are attending to outside affairs, earning a liv-
ing and other duties, the women are attending
to their duties, and the sisters are really doing
as much good in their spheres as the men do in
theirs. Affairs in Zion seem to be progressing;
it is not now as it was some years ago. Some-
times we meet with crowds of women, as we
do here to-day; there were not so many
back in Nauvoo; sometimes we meet with
crowds of Bishops: some time ago there were
but few Bishops, now there are about two hun-
dred and fifty. These organizations all tend
to help to roll on the work of God upon the
earth. Your services, sisters, are just as neces-
sary for the furtherance of the work as those
of the brethren. We are all operating togeth-
er for the interest of the Kingdom of God on
the earth. You are acting in the silk business
just as faithfully as the men are in their sphere.
	One great principle that we should study is
how to elevate ourselves; to be polite to each
other in all our acts; to be honest and true to
one another. With the Almighty helping us,
we should take a course to elevate mankind.
We should be courteous to each other, and try
to approximate to that state of perfection we
are all aiming for. It would not be amiss to
set a good example before our children, and
the sisters to be good examples to their hus-
bands; but let all that we do, be done with an
eye single to the glory of God.
	"We need the mercy and the grace of God
all the way through. If it was not for God's
mercy, Satan's power is so great we could not
accomplish much. We ought to instill into
our children the principles of the Gospel, and
teach them to live in obedience to the princi-
ples of truth and righteousness.
	"We may call on some of the men to go on
missions; sisters, don't you try to hinder them,
but help all you can; we want to feel that we
are bound together in indissoluble ties that
cannot be broken. Call on the Lord and He
will hear your prayers; and when we get
through we will meet the hosts of the mighty
and good that are gone before.
	"Help the poor and afflicted all you can.
Pray for them, give them a little flour, a little
butter, sugar, meat, and other necessary things
that will be for their good and comfort.
	"May God bless you, your President, and
Presidents, your children, your families, and

[Column 3]

everything pertaining to you, that you may be
saved in the Celestial Kingdom of our God.
Amen."
	Sung, Doxology.	Benediction by Elder A.
M. Cannon.	ELIZABETH HOWARD,
	Secretary.


THE LUTTRELL BILL.

	This Bill which proposes disfranchising
the women of Utah is one of the anomalies
of to-day. We fully believe there are fair-
minded men enough in our Congress to de-
feat the passage of so flagrant an outrage.
Abraham Lincoln once said to his advisors,
"I fear you do not fully comprehend the
danger of abridging the liberties of the
people." This age is too far advanced in
enlightenment to tolerate the wresting the
few admitted rights that women are just
learning to appreciate and judiciously ex-
ercise. The ballot is woman's as well as
man's Ancestral bequest; her mind grasps
the condition and wrestles with the falsely
forged barriers raised by force of might,
and held with apparently a Napoleonic
grasp. Yet in the face of traditionary in-
tolerance, and opposing Self-will, woman's
political fetters are loosening throughout all
nations. This is most perceptible in Amer-
ica, the native soil of freedom and equal
rights. The wheels of progress may be,
are sure to be clogged by dead-wood from
time to time, but "Our cause is just" and
justice and right will prevail.	S. M. K.


GOSSIP.

	I have been wanting to write a piece for
your paper a long time, but have never set
my mind to it until now. I have chosen
for my subject Gossip. What good does
gossiping do those who practice it? No
good whatever, but injures both the charac-
ter of the one who gossips, and the charac-
ter of the persons of whom evil is spoken.
For instance, we hear some very bad re-
port of one of our friends, and the first per-
son we see or meet, we will tell them this
story that we have heard, and they will at
once believe every word of it, and per-
chance they will go and tell it to some of
their friends, and it will spread in this way
until it gets circulated all over and round
about, and perhaps there is not a word of
truth in it; and when that person hears of
it to whom it pertains, they will feel very
bad about it, and if they can find out the
person who started such a report, it will
cause a hatred between them which can
never afterwards be overcome, and they
will be enemies instead of friends. If all
take that course it will cause a disunion in-
stead of a union. If we all desire to be
friends, sisters and brothers, we must com-
mence at once and stop gossiping.
			MISS HANNAH M. NIXON.
	St. George, Feb. 28th, 1878.


HURRY AND DISPATCH.—No two things
differ more than hurry and dispatch. Hurry
is the mark of a weak mind; dispatch of a
strong one. A weak man in office, like a
squirrel in a cage, is laboring eternally, but
to no purpose, and is in constant motion
without getting on a jot. Like a turnstile,
he is in everybody's way, but stops nobody.
He talks a great deal, but says very little.
He looks into everything, but sees into
nothing. He has a hundred irons in the
fire, but very few of them are hot, and with
those few that are he only burns his fingers.


164
WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a. m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY. APRIL. 1, 1878.


[Column 1]
PRACTICAL CAPABILITIES.

	Whatever tends to a better preparation for
the duties of actual life should be considered
p[-]rt and parcel of one's education. As indi-
viduals filling up an existence here in this
probation, it should be the aim to adapt one's
self to circumstances in such a way as to ren-
der life enjoyable in the fulfillment of its real
duties and obligations. Education does not
depend upon one's advantages always. In
many instances persons have attained to emi-
nence, who have not even had the opportunity
of being taught the simple rudiments of their
native language when young. To be sure
learning properly applied is a great lever
towards progress, and every child who can be
instructed while young should comprehend
and appreciate the advantages accruing from
knowledge derived from books. But there are
experiences that call out capabilities, and exi-
gencies which bring into action powers and
faculties which were previously hidden from
their po[-]sessor. A great proportion of man
and womankind are destitute of that moral
propelling force which is necessary to bring
into practical use the best and most useful at-
tributes of their natures; but when physically
necessitated they are compelled to do, and find
often a new and rare pleasure and satisfaction
in their effectual efforts in their own behalf.
	Men, generally speaking, believe themselyes
capable of practical work, but women, as a
class, have not as yet comprehended their
powers in this respect. They are capable of
much more and higher work than is generally
supposed, and were it possible to convince them
of the fact, and would they themselves, by
their own volition, develop the faculties given
them, how much broader would be their views,
how much wider their range of thought, how
much higher and nobler their aims in life, how
much truer their conception of God and His
works.
	"I want to be useful in my day and genera-
tion upon the earth," is the burden of many a
song uttered by the sisters in this Church, but
immediately followed, in many cases, by
"What can I do?" Every one can do some-
thing, if they will seek to develop their capa-
bilities and put them into practical use. But
in many instances it is only "a refrain," they
will not arouse themselves; their desires may
be all right, but they are totally inactive and
parasitical, instead of energetic and self-re-
liant, and suffer themselves to drift along in
the narrow groove of narrow minds, without
the power, seemingly, to burst the nutshell
and resolve their desires into systematic action.
	There is a great field of labor before this peo-
ple, there is need of efficient help, and all who
will lend their best endeavors for the promo-

[Column 2]
tion of the good of the human family may
find an ample range for their labors. Suppos-
ing there should be some failures, there is
some benefit derived even from these: they
bring out other thoughts and plans of action,
and cause one to make more careful, or strong-
er exertions in future attempts.
	It is terrible to see young girls who could
acquaint themselves with the true science of
living, fret and whine away their existence
given them for such a glorious purpose, because
God has not given them wealth to luxuriate
in. They become chronically morbid, because
they lack the energy to develop their own ca-
pabilities.
	In the cultivation of one's powers and at-
tributes there are abundant sources of pleasure,
which those never know who are content to
drift on from day to day, without any purpose
but to kill time.
	Girls cannot be too well developed, in body
or mind, to fit them to fill the responsible po-
sitions for which nature designed them. They
cannot be too well informed. Thousands of
them bring to their own home, when they en-
ter into the marriage relation, a ruined consti-
tution, a peevish temper and a dwarfish mind,
for want of a proper care of their health and
cultivation of their powers. Their habits are
not consistent with the laws of nature, "they
must havo a good time," which often means,
with them, an undue amount of unhealthy
recreation, tight lacing, tight shoes, a style of
dress in which health has no consideration,
rambling and desultory thoughts, and a "don't
carishness" in general. Such girls are not
very likely to take household cares cheerfully,
and they are totally unprepared for the glori-
ous crown of motherhood.
	If it were possible to influence the "Daugh-
ters of Zion" to comprehend the necessity of
developing all their good attributes, and ap-
plying their hearts to wisdom, concentrating
their energies to some settled purpose to bene-
fit themselves, their parents and others, in-
stead of wasting their precious moments in
frivolity and nonsense, how grand and elevat-
ing might be the result. How happy, then,
might be many a home that is now cheerless
and desolate; how buoyant and light many a
heart that is now sad. Gir's, you who live for
pleasure, and find it a phantom, begin and dis-
cipline yourselves into habits of industry and
true economy of time and means. Be active
and energetic in performing your duties, how-
ever trivial they may seem; read good books,
those that will inspire you with noble thoughts,
and enlarge your mental capacities, go out in-
to the air and sunshine, instead of moping in
close, dark rooms, lest the wind should brown
your complexion. There is a relief to the
wearied mind and body, that one finds in the
freedom of the woods and fields, that is better
comprehended than expressed. Women would
be better able to combat with the trials, wor-
ries and cares of life, if they let into their
houses more of God's glorious sunshine, if they
breathed more of the pure air of heaven out-
side their dwellings. Walk or ride every day in
the open air—it is better for you than medicine.
Brace up the nervous system and stimulate the
energies by these simple, invigorating meth-
ods, instead-of cultivating morbid feelings
and harping upon trials and sacrifices, or
drawing out all the vitality of others to help
support the burden of life. There are many
lessons yet to be learned in the great experi-
ence of life, which require diligence and ener-
getic action, and let us sisters reason together,
and endeavor to understand wherein our high-
est duty lies, and be faithful in the perform-
ance thereof.
[handwritten] E. B. Wells.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	NOTICE HAS been given through the "Dese-
ret News" by Elder John Taylor, President of
the Council of the Twelve Apostles, that the
Forty-eighth Annual Conference of the Church
of Jesus Christ will convene in the large Tab-
ernacle in this city, on Saturday, the 6th of
April, at 10 o'clock a, m.
	ARTICLES OF FAITH.—The cards containing
the articles of Faith, which have recently been
prepared for the use of Latter-day Saint Sun-
day Schools, are for sale at the Deseret News
Office. These have been carefully arranged to
give correct ideas of the principles of the
Church in a few short, simple paragraphs,
which little children can very readily learn by
heart. At the Commission Store for Home
Manufactures they keep for sale quantities of
these cards, just a suitable size to put into a
letter; price, 50 cents per hundred. Persons
who are writing letters to relatives, friends, or
acquaintances, should supply themselves with
these cards, and thus distribute them abroad.
They may be "like bread cast upon the wa-
ters."
	THROUGH COURTESY of the editor, Elder A.
Milton Musser, we have received and perused
the pamphlet entitled "Fruits of Mormonism,"
by "non-Mormon" witnesses. This little
book, containing only thirty-five pages, will
give briefly much correct information con-
cerning this people, upon many points which
need elucidating intelligently to strangers.
Testimonies of many educated and refined
people, to the honesty, industry, frugality,
progress and untiring endurance of this people,
are given by the author in their own words,
from their sketches, lectures, addresses, &c.,
which cannot be contradicted. Elder Musser
has also concisely given, in the closing pages,
such statistical, geological, political and other
general information of the condition of the
Territory and its resources as cannot fail to
make an impression for good, showing as it
does the exertions past, present and for the fu-
ture promotion of morality and everything cal-
culated to elevate and improve the condition
of mankind. For sale at the Deseret News
Office; 25 cents per copy. These pamphlets
should be widely distributed.
	THE YOUNG Ladies' M. I. A. of the Thir-
teenth Ward had a re-union on Thursday,
March 14, at the residence of their President,
Mrs. Elizabeth Thomas. A good spirit pervad-
ed the assembly. An essay on Charity, by one
of the young lady Counselors, and some exer-
cises in singing and reading were very credita-
bly rendered. Mrs. M. I. Horne, Mrs. P.
Woodruff, Miss E. R. Snow, Mrs. R. R. Grant,
Miss Belle Clayton, Mrs. L. Greene Richards
and others made suggestive and happy re-
marks, calculated to encourage and aid the girls
in their march of improvement. The repast
prepared by the young sisters was excellent,
and the smiling and joyous faces of these
young and beautiful girls shed a radiance of
light and an influence of good feeling over the
company, which happified the occasion. These
re unions among the young girls are calculated
to disseminate a good spirit and unite their
sympathies and energies.
	THE EIGHTEENTH Ward Relief Society,
which has been only recently organized, met
at the Lion House on Wednesday, March 27,
for a social entertainment. The afternoon was
spent in cheerful conversation for mutual bene-
fit, and at seven all sat down to a bountiful
supper. After partaking of the good things
provided by the sisters for the occasion, all ad-


journed again to the large parlor, and President
Joseph Young made some eloquent and touch-
ing remarks upon the life, character and labors
of his beloved brother Brigham Young; also
the work of the Latter-days and the glory
awaiting the Saints who endure to the end.
Counselor D. H. Wells by invitation of the 
President, Miss E. R. Snow, also spoke feel-
ingly of the many associations and tender remi-
niscences which had been called up by coming
into the house of the departed prophet and
brother, who had been so many years the es-
teemed President of the Church. Alluded to
the brethren of the Quorum of the First
Presidency who had passed away—Willard
Richards, Jedediah M. Grant, Heber C. Kim-
ball and George A. Smith, now followed by
their leader and beloved bro her, Brigham
Young. Hymns were sung by Prof. Thomas
and wife, in which the assembly joined. The
meeting was a pleasant one, and a goodly por-
tion of the Spirit of God rested upon all.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		165


PROVO, March 21.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Being often in receipt of letters from various
parts of the Territory, concerning the culture
and manipulation of the silk-worm, 'tis my
intention to publish, from week to week, in
the "News," prior to the time of attending
the same.		D. GRAVES.


[Column 1]
OBITUARIES.

	Sister Jane Miles, wife of Edwin R. Miles,
departed this life March 14th, in her 38th year,
after a few days illness, leaving a husband and
children to mourn her loss. Sister Miles was
much beloved and respected by all who knew
her, faithful in her duties as wife and mother.
She has spent her whole life in this Church,
and lived and died a faithful Latter-day Saint,
much esteemed and beloved. It can be truly
said of her, she rests in peace, in sure and cer-
tain hope of a glorious resurrection with the
just.				MARTHA WILLIAMS.
	Smithfield, Cache Co., March 19, 1878.

	Our beloved sister, Cecelia Peterson, depart-
ed this life Friday, Feb. 22d, after a lingering
illness of four months. She died as she had
lived a faithful Latter-day Saint, and true to
every principle of the Gospel as it was presented
to her. She has been a member of the Relief
Society since its organization, in 1868, and a
Teacher; was ever faithful to her duties, and
always on hand and ready to help whenever
she was called upon. Her sufferings have been
great for a long time: she died of dropsy. Her
faith in the ordinance of laying on of hands
was steadfast to the last. She was one of the
first to enter into the business of sericulture
and was most successful. In Sister Peterson
we have lost a faithful member and an earnest
and indefatigable worker. She leaves a sor-
rowing husband to mourn her loss, with whom
we deeply sympathize.
	She was aged 64 years, and was a native of
Denmark.				M. F. C. MORRISON.
	Mt. Pleasant, Feb. 26, 1878.

						For the EXPONENT,
	Died, at Lake Town, Rich Co., Sunday,
March 17, 1878, Eveline, beloved wife of Jo-
seph G. Williams, and daughter of Willard
and Rosamond F. Green, leaving a baby three
weeks old, and two little girls, besides a large
circle of relatives and friends to deplore her
loss. She died in full faith of a glorious resur-
rection with the Saints.
						E. L. CROWTHER.

[Column 2]
	Died, at her residence with her mother, in
the 14th Ward, Salt Lake City, on Monday the
11th inst., Sister Laura S. Richards, daughter
of Samuel and Maria Snyder, and wife of El-
der F. D. Richards, aged 42 years, 1 month,
and 26 days.
	Deceased was born in Camden, East Upper
Canada, and emigrated to the United States
with her father's family in 1840, who pursu-
ing their journey as health and means permit-
ted, located with the gathering Saints in Han-
cock County, Illinois, in 1841.
	In 1846, with the general exodus of the
Saints, they journeyed to Winter Quarters,
where Sister Laura suffered long and severely
from that terrible complaint which consigned
so many of its victims to the grave in that
place, and from which she barely escaped but
never recovered from the terrible consequences
of that illness to know a day's health after.
	In all her afflictions she was dutiful, faithful
and devoted, whether as a daughter, a wife; or
a mother to her only child.
	The few last years of her life were a period of
continual suffering, which she bore with saint-
ly patience and resignation without a murmur,
and looking forward with pleasing anticipation
to the happy release that awaited her, after
having come up through much tribulation,
and in the blessed assurance that her garments
were made white by the blood of the Lamb.


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
SCRIPTURE WOMEN.

BY HANNAH T. KING.
[continued.]

	RUTH AND NAOMI.—These two most
lovely and exemplary characters, can never
be separated in time or in eternity. The
history of Ruth ought to be read and stud-
ied by all young girls, and indeed even ma-
ture characters must be edified by the study
of her purity and devotion. Naomi was
her mother-in-law, she having been left a
widow with two sons, Ruth being the wife
of one of them, but soon both the young
men died, and their young widows then
gave fond affection to the mother of their
loved ones, she also loved them very much;
but after a little while, Naomi feeling be-
reft and desolate, resolved to return to the
land of Judah, and advised her daughters-
in-law to remain each in the house of her
husband. But they wept bitterly at the
thought of parting with the mother of their
beloved husbands, and felt they could not
leave her, but she used all her own sweet
logic, full of beautiful principle, that at
last, weeping bitterly, and kissing her af-
fectionately, Orpah consented to do as she
wished her, and she bade her farewell; but
the love and devotion of Ruth would not
allow her to listen to her words, but cling-
ing to her she sobbed forth "Entreat me
not to leave thee, or to return from follow-
ing thee, for whither thou goest, I will go,
and where thou lodgest, I will lodge; thy
people shall be my people, and thy God my
God; where thou diest, there will I be bu-
ried; the Lord do so to me and more also, if
aught but death part thee and me." Then
Naomi could not resist her love, and devo-
tion to herself; and permitted her to ac-
company her, and they went and dwelt in
Bethlehem, in the house of Naomi. And
Ruth was obedient to her counsel like a
child, and they were received by a very
rich man, and treated with kindness and
consideration, he was a relative of Naomi's
and in due time he took Ruth as his wife

[Column 2]

according to the law of their faith, and
through that lineage, in after years, came
the Savior of the world.
	Now we come to Hannah, a woman re-
markably blest of the Lord, she was living
in plural marriage and was beloved and es-
teemed by her husband, but she had no
child, while the other wife had several; and
"they went up out of the city early to wor-
ship, and to sacrifice unto the Lord of
Hosts in Shiloh," and while there she vow-
ed to the Lord, that if He would give her
a son, she would dedicate him from his
birth to His service all the days of his life!
and the Lord heard and granted her prayer;
and in due time Samuel was born, and he
was reared in the Temple of the Lord, his
character is without spot or blemish, no
other in the sacred Scriptures, (except the
Savior) can be so spoken of; and she carried
him up to the Temple and said, "I have
lent him to the Lord, as long as he liveth,"
and he worshipped the Lord there.
	Abigail next appears, and though her his-
tory takes up only half a chapter, it is very
full and expressive. Her husband was a
churlish and penurious man, and a drunk-
ard, and rudely refused David, the champi-
on of the armies of Israel, supplies for his
starving soldiers, and David determined to
take by force of armies, that which he had
in all courtesy solicited, and had been re-
fused; Abigail being apprized of his inten-
tion, calls her servants and orders them to
collect a handsome and suitable present for
the generalissimo, and taking five of her
maidens to accompany her, sets out for the
Camp of Israel, and when she saw David
she alighted from her mule, making the
eastern salaam of bowing her face to the
ground." Her language is womanly and
beautiful, yet vigorous and prophetic; and
David was so charmed by her modest elo-
quence, that he accepted her present for his
needy soldiers and cancels the order he had
issued, and the prepartion he had made to
wrest by force from Nabal, that which he
had so churlishly refused, and David can-
didly told Abigail that the Lord had sent
her to him to prevent him shedding the
blood of her household, and bid her go in
peace to her house "see I have hearkened
to thy voice, and accepted thy peace off-
ring."
	It seems we ought not to pass over Mi-
chal the daughter of King Saul whom he
gave to David for a wife, and it appears
she was true and faithful for a time, and
even at one time, by a stratagem, saved the
life of David, when her mad father had de-
termined to destroy him. But in after
times when David had passed through much
trial and persecution, and become king,
and was returning home in triumph, bring-
ing with him the ark of the Lord, had of-
fered sacrifices to the Lord in gratitude and
in the joy of his heart "danced before the
ark; Michal looked out of a window and
despised him, and as he returned to bless
his household, Michal came out to meet
him," and spoke sneeringly and sarcastic-
ally to him, and David rebuked her in high-
toned language,and it appears she was never
again his wife; there is a mystery about all
this, that Scripture has not seen fit to eluci-
date, but it seems she was a small-minded
woman thongh a kings daughter, and was
utterly incapable of appreciating her noble
husband; jealousy was probably a powerful
ingredient in her composition and charac-
ter, but silence is probably the most charac-
ter, but silence is probably the most charit-
able commentary, and where doubt exists
all should have the benefit of it, that is
English Law and it is a righteous one.
THE QUEEN OF SHEBA.—Thirteen ver-
ses only, tell the history of her renowned


visit to King Solomon, she came to see and
hear his wisdom his grandeur, and his
greatness; she had been told of it in her
own country but could not believe it, but
she closes her exclamations of surprise and
wonder by saying "The half was not told
me! Happy are the men, happy are these
thy servants who stand continually before
thee and hear thy wisdom," and they ex-
changed very precious gifts, and she re-
turned rejoicing to her own land. She was
appreciative and was desirious of adding to
her own mind knowledge and wisdom.
How few possess this faculty, a small mind
never, the truly great are ever humble and 
childlike, ever ready to learn.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


SHALL MARRIED WOMEN TEACH?

	This is a question just now exciting some
discussion, and is one of sufficient import-
ance to render it worthy the study of the 
thoughtful educator. The decision must
rest solely on one point—are married wo-
men competent teachers?
	Now this is, after all, the only basis upon
which any man or woman should be em-
ployed in a work of such vital and eternal
value as teaching. There are gentlemen—
chivalrous, kind, sympathetic, blessings up-
on them! whose keen insight penetrates in-
to the life of a woman struggling alone in 
the world, and whose generous sympathies
would extend to her position and salary in
the educational field, on the plea—not of
her ability, but of her need, of the work.
	And these say "If a woman is prosperously
married, if she has found strong and tender
hands to smooth for her all the rough places
of life, then give her position to one who is
suffering for the financial profits it offers."
	This conclusion is in a material sense hu-
mane and considerate, but its premiscs are
utterly false. Fitness for the work is the
only basis upon which teachers should be
employed. If financial need were the only
point to determine, then why not refuse a
place to an unmarried lady who has a fath-
er on whom to rely? Then when a candi-
date for a teacher presented herself, her fate
could be determined, not by a test of her
technical knowledge and general powers,
but by reference to the tax list, to ascertain
the income of her father!
	Charity is certainly a type of heaven, but
justice must take precedence even of mercy
in the selection of public school teachers.
It is noble and grand to give, in the selec-
tion of mechanical employees, preference
to the average woman who needs it, to
whom life at best is but a struggle, but in
the high and holy work of education—work
that might well tax an angel's powers—
personal considerations should not prevail.
	Some of the finest educational work in
the United States is done by married wo-
men. Their private life has nothing to do
with their public work—whether they toil
for daily bread, or whether they bring to 
their work a fresher enthusiasm, a higher
zeal in teaching, because they love the la-
bor. In fact, the woman to whom salary is
less an object than the enduring results of
her labor has in her hands a lever that
brings cultured thought to her work, in a 
degree impossible to one in limited and
hampered circumstances. Married women
bring to their work an experience, an in-
sight, a poise rarely attainable in teachers
younger and untried. They have tact,
judgment, and discretion, and the school
system could illy spare them. The public
schools are not designed as a charitable in-
stitution to furnish employment for indi-
gent women. their aim is to produce the


best possible results, irrespective of the
sex or circumstance of the worker. It is
the labor, not the laborers, that must here
receive the most profound consideration.
	LILIAN WHITING.
St. Louis, Mo.—Ex.


DUTY OF CHILDREN.

	Noticing a piece in the EXPONENT—
"Duty of Parents"—it caused me to reflect
on the duty of children to their parents. I
think it says somewhere in the Command-
ments of the Lord, "Honor thy Father and
thy mother, that thy days may be long on
the earth." I think were the affections of
the mother felt and cherished by her chil-
dren with corresponding sympathy, doubt-
less this earth would exhibit more of heav-
en than at present. I think a mother
teaching her children to pray is the most
sublime and tender scene the imagination
can conceive. Elevated above earthly
things, she seems like one of those guar-
dian angels, the companion of our earthly
pilgrimage.
	A dear mother is the first to embrace and
nourish our puny frames, so I would say
unto you, children be kind to your mother;
it is she that watches your bed of sickness,
it is she that is ever ready to proffer to the
parching lip the cool draught, and soothe
the fevered brow, happy if she meet one
kind glance in payment for her labor of
love. How pleasant it is to see children
obedient to their parents and kind to each
other; I think such a mother is blest.
How beautiful where there are large fami-
lies and all the older members make it a 
practice to speak kindly to each other, and
set good examples before the children—and
we must, if we want to be true Latter-day
Saints, and gain for ourselves an exaltation.
We must try and bear with each other's
faults, and not one feel above the other.
How elevating is the tendency of such a
family! How happy must the husband and 
father feel, when he comes home from his
labors at night, to meet the smiles of all
his household, and realize the good feelings
existing between them. Let us then, as
true wives and mothers, in the absence of
the husband, call our little ones together
when we are about to retire to rest, and
have prayers with them, and ask in faith
for such things as we stand in need of, and
the Holy Spirit to be with us at all times,
and when we close our door at night let us
try and shut out all contention and discord,
and let us seek to live aright, so that we
may be counted worthy of an exaltation in
the Celestial kingdom.
	JANE GODFREY.
Clarkston, March 12, 1878.


THE time is past when "anybody can
teach school," even a country school. The
time has come when the people are de-
manding that the youth of their children
shall not be wasted by superficial culture,
but that good seed be sown instead of nox-
ious weeds. Is there any parent who con-
siders that a common-school education is
more than his child needs? or that the best
teacher his school has ever had is too good
for him? On the contrary, did he not pay
his share of the tax for that teacher more
willingly than he ever paid any other simi-
lar tax? The true economy of time is to
accomplish the most in it; of the children's
time, it is to prepare them for lives of use-
fulness, to fit them to fill the ambition of 
their parents in becoming the noble men
and women of the future.—S. H. White.—
Ex.


"INTELLECTUALLY, WOMEN ARE
LAZIER-THAN MEN."

	This is truly an age of progress, and we
may add an age of competition. We hail
with delight the many indications that be-
speak the future glorious destiny of woman.
We watch with zealous care every unguard-
ed utterance, every unintentional acknowl-
edgment, in favor of human equality,
which unconsciously falls from the lips of
ungenerous, egotistical men. As it has
been grudgingly admitted since "the meri-
dian of the third century," by a small por-
tion of the "Lords of Creation," that wo-
men are the actual possessors of SOULS, I
should be pleased to have aome one tell me,
how long the poor creatures have been al-
lowed to exercise their "lazy intellects."
When I contemplate that it has taken cen-
turies to bring the dull comprehension of
man to the realization of the simple fact
that women have souls, I almost despair of 
his ever becoming fully converted to the
divine reality that women were created in
God's image, ("Male and female created he
them,") or to the honest conviction of
grand old Wendell Phillips that "God nev-
er wastes ability." Tupper has sweetly
written that "Woman is the poetry of a
man's life," but where we would ask is the
poetry of woman's life, we fear it will too
often prove to be—verse.
	The burden of the song of every daugh-
ter of Eve from the creation has been "O,
if I were only a man!" And whence com-
eth this desire? From the fact that she
has not been allowed to be Woman's self.
She has not been allowed to cultivate the
talents which God has given her equally
with man.
	Even to-day,
	"Woman is held politically to have no ex-
istence.
	"Civilly she is a minor.
	"In marriage she is a serf.
	"In labor she is made inferior and rob-
bed of her earnings.
	"In public instruction she is sacrificed to
man.
	"Out of marriage she answers to the sins
committed by both.
	"As a mother she is deprived of the 
right to her children.
	"She is only deemed equally responsible,
intelligent, and answerable in taxes and
crimes."
	Not long since a minister of the gospel,
in this city, one who claims to stand upon
a very broad platform, casting behind him
all Creeds, Dogmas, boldly denouncing the
narrowness of all denominational lines,
grandly and eloquently advocating the
scientific and spiritual advancement of
man,—well this modern Heologist, amazed
the thinking women of his audience one
evening, by the injustice and audacity of
this assertion.
	"Intellectually women are lazier than
men." No doubt the rudeness, or if you
please, the vulgarity of the expression will
impress the reader as it did me, coming from
a college-bred Theologian, and we hope it
will make the fist of every intelligent wo
man in the land clinch as did ours when
we heard it.
	I am glad that he said it for the sake of 
the women who "have all the rights they
want." It is just such medicine they need
to make them whole.
—Ex.


WE prove our love of God by keeping
His laws.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		167﻿


<c- yfst.="" george,="" uararch="" 10,="" 1878.="" editor="" 'exronent:="" ’="" i="" bellevje="" tliereiief="" societies="" of="" st.="" george="" have="" been="" rather="" remiss="" in="" representing="" themselves="" your,="" valuable="" paper.="" the;="" old="" organization.="" wa3="" dissolved="" and="" a="" branch="" society="" organized="" each="" ward="" since="" the="" re-organization="" stake.="" submit="" few="" items="" in.="" regard="" to.="" the.condition="" the-="" socle="" tyof="" firsfward,="" to="" show="" that="" w0“="" are="" alive="" our="" duties.="" -we="" were="" organ-="" izecfpn="" the.="" 23d="" may="" last,-by="" president.="" j.="" ib="" tv="" mcftalisteffand="" bishop="" miles="" p.="" romney;="" thafollowing="" named="" sisters="" wore,="" sustained="" as="" officers.="" 1="" hannah="" h.="" romiiey,="" satwfeanir,="" “iors.="" g.="" perkins,="" secretary.="" mary="" jarvis,="" assistant="" secretary="" susan.y.="" milne,="" treasurer.’="" time="" sister="" pej-kips="" has="" .re-="" signed,="" on="" accounvof’ill="" health,="" annie="" m;="" romney="" appointed="" fill="" vacancy.="" we="" bave="" enrolled,="" members,="" 73="" names,="" but="" quite="" number="" deterred="" from="" at-="" tending,="" some="" oh="" account="" having="" small="" children,="" others="" .advanced="" age,="" sick="" ness,="" ’fete,="" though="" i:="" think="" wo="" benefit="" their="" faith="" prayors,="" ahd'tho3e="" who.="" do="" attend="" very="" faithful="" labors,="" responding="" willingly="" calls="" president,="" who="" is="" energetic="" wo-="" man="" mnd="" one="" whom="" all="" love="" respect.="" an="" excellent'.spirit-="" prevails,="" greatly="" blessed,="" prospered.="" those="" invaluable="" books="" entitled="" “the="" women="" morndndbtn,'ijfrdm="" which="" reads="" '&t="" -meeting.="" need="" make="" no="" c'ommdnts="" this="" masterpiece="" literature,="" itrrecommends="" itself="" peruse="" it.="" bit="" ter="" persecutions,="" thehearf-rendfng="" trials,="" sisters,;="" therein="" recorded,="" wake="" responsive="" chord="" call="" forth-="" holiest="" sympathies="" hearts="" mothers="" iiaughiers="" of"="" zion,="" sets="" before="" them.bright="" il-="" lustrious="" examples,="" worthy="" -irbitatlgn.="" records="" will="" assuredly="" stand="" forth="" unborn="" generations,="" imperishable="" monument="" glory,="" memory="" noble="" "and="" heroic="" .women,="" con7="" demnatidn="" everlasting-shame="" dis-s="" grace="" vile,="" fiendish="" persecutors,="" the-sisters="" desired="" td="" have-a="" social="" ;pichic;="" new="" year’s="" dayy:ancl'accordingly="" thy,="" with'their="" husbands'and="" brothers="" (comprfs-:="" ingnearly="" whole="" ‘ward,)="" met="" at="" school="" house,="" had="" beauti-="" fully="" decorated="" for="" tliq="" .occasion,="" after="" partaking="" rich="" repast,="" spent="" rest="" iheafternoon="" evening="" iff="" ’dancing,="" songs,="" recitations;,="" it="" was="" great="" suc-="" cess;="" 'alr="" whi.t="" merry="" 'marriage="" beli.”="" presidents="" mc'calliatpr="" eyring="" participated="" with="" us="" enjoyments="" day.="" assisted="" officers="" doing="" honors="" occasion,="" performed="" ina="" creditablo="" manner.-="" iff-a-very="" pofir="" ftjrain="" country,="" succeeded="" istoring="" little="" more="" than="" two="" hundred="" lbs.="" 'of="" wheat,="" a'="" beginning,="" butl="" vwe="" hope="" to'afid="" m="" coming="" season."'="" .="" counselors="" manifest="" -lively="" interest="" welfare,="" assist-="" ing="" take="" some-="" preparatory="" .steps="" toward="" carrying="" out="" fhb'counsel="" given="" rela-="" jo'the="" silk-culture.="" they="" ren-="" dered="" usvery="" efficient="" aid="" purchasing="" one-fourth="" lot,="" situated="" short="" distanco="" westjbf="" .the="" temple="" flock,="" bro.="" geo.="" jarvis="" kindly="" offefeu'="" tofthkt="" care="" ‘of="" tins'="" joseph,="" sevier,="" co,="" march="" 11,="" exponent?="" '="" ,i="" :="" reliof="" re-organized‘at="" place="" doc.="" g,="" 1877,="" under="" direction,'="" a.="" murdock.="" ex-="" cellent="" meeting,="" ’much="" good:’instruct="" tlon="" given.="" election-="" officers1-’="" follows:="" davis,="" -="" lucinda="" e.="" murdock,="" )="" saraha.eoss,="" counselors.="" lydia="" l.="" wells,="" martha="" secretary..="" floria="" russell,="" treasurer.="" meet="" together="" onco="" two.weeks,="" meetings="" well="" attended;-we:="" twenty-nine="" expect’="" continue="" increase.="" we..="" ..="" stored="" thirty-nine="" bushels="" grain;="" lot="" ahd="" expect="" fence="" this.="" summer,="" then="" shall="" set="" mulberry="" frees.="" striving="" bpcomo,="" united="" dfling="" good="" can="" towbrds="" ”="" building="" up="" zidu.="" besf="" ‘wishes="" prosperity="" exponent1,="" your'="" sis.="" ter,="" &c.,="" webbs,="" sec’y.(="" wales,="" sanpete;="" co.,="" 1g,="" 1878="" exponent;="" relief,bocidty="" been”reorganized:="" t="" small,="" place,="" we:="" both,="" willing="" anxious="" allhe="" can.,="" president="" mrs.="" ‘="" margaret="" reese,="" counselors,="" mrs.,="" jane="" rdmunds="" and-="" jemimadan's,="" miss="" maggie="" secretary,'="" isirs.'="" eliza="" lteese,="" treas.rv="" urer.="" wd="" young="" ladies="" hero="" resulted="" "in="" gogd.="" interesting,="" butasthere="" now="" three="" girls="" unmarried,="" joined="" relief="" society,:a="" be="" useful,="" moyoi="" fpnvard?="" capacity.,="" :v.1="" secretary.,]="" ......="" w="" jftsr="" ’-'<="" div="">[Column 1]
R. S. REPORT.

	ST. GEORGE, UTAH, March 10. 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	I believe the Relief Societies of St. George
have been rather remiss in representing
themselves in your valuable paper. The
old organization was dissolved and a Branch
Society organized in each ward since the
re-organization of the Stake. I submit a
few items in regard to the condition of the
Society of the First Ward, to show that we
are alive to our duties. We were organ-
ized on the 23d of May last, by President
J. D. T. McCalister and Bishop Miles P.
Romney; the following named sisters were
sustained as officers.
	Hannah H. Romney, President.
	Sarah A. Church,		}	Counselors.
	Hannah M. Wiltbank,	}
	Hannah G. Perkins, Secretary.
	Mary Jarvis, Assistant Secretary.
	Susan. Y. Milne, Treasurer.
	Since that time Sister Perkins has re-
signed, on account of ill health, and Annie
M. Romney appointed to fill the vacancy.
We have enrolled, as members, 73 names,
but quite a number are deterred from at-
tending, some on account of having small
children, others from advanced age, sick-
ness, etc., though I think we have the
benefit of their faith and prayers, and those
who do attend are very faithful in their
labors, responding willingly to the calls of
our President, who is a very energetic wo-
man and one whom all love and respect.
An excellent spirit prevails, and we are
greatly blessed and prospered. We have
one of those invaluable books entitled "The
Women of Mormondom, " from which our
Secretary reads at each meeting. I need
make no comments on this masterpiece of
literature, as it recommends itself to all
who peruse it. But the bitter persecutions,
the heart-rending trials, of our sisters,
therein recorded, wake a responsive chord,
and call forth the holiest sympathies of
the hearts of the mothers and daughters of
Zion, and sets before them bright and il-
lustrious examples, worthy of imitation.
Their records will assuredly stand forth to
unborn generations, as an imperishable
monument of glory to the memory of those
noble and heroic women, and to the con-
demnation and everlasting shame and dis-
grace of their vile, fiendish persecutors.
The sisters desired to have a social picnic
on New Year's day, and accordingly they,
with their husbands and brothers (compris-
ing nearly the whole of the Ward,) met at
the school house, which had been beauti-
fully decorated for the occasion, and after
partaking of a rich repast, spent the rest of
the afternoon and evening in dancing,
songs, and recitations; it was a great suc-
cess; and "all went merry as a marriage
bell." Presidents McCallister and Eyring
participated with us in the enjoyments of
the day. Our Bishop assisted the officers
of the Society in doing the honors of the
occasion, which were performed in a very
creditable manner. This is a very poor
grain country, but we have succeeded in
storing a little more than two hundred lbs.
of wheat, which is a small beginning, but
we hope to add to it the coming season.
Bishop Romney and Counselors manifest a
lively interest in our welfare, and in assist-
ing us to take some preparatory steps
toward carrying out the counsel given rela-
tive to the silk-culture. They have ren-
dered us very efficient aid in purchasing
one-fourth of a lot, situated a short distance
west of the Temple Block, which Bro. Geo.
Jarvis kindly offered to take care of this

[Column 2]
season; he has already set out fifteen hun-
dred mulbery cuttings, and we expect soon
to plant some of the trees and seed, also
some cotten seed. Yesterday President
H. H. Romney called a bee of the sisters,
to lay out a flower garden and plant flower
roots, seeds, etc., to beautify the grounds,
where we hope at some future day, by the
blessing of God, to build a Hall for the use
of the Society. A number of the mem-
bers, with Bro. Jarvis and some of the boys
of the Ward, responded cheerfully to the
call, and all worked with a will (the officers
setting a worthy example), until they ac-
complished what was desired. I pray that
our labors may prove successful.
					A MEMBER, R. S.

	FRANKLIN, ONEIDA Co., IDAHO,
						March 14, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I write to inform you that our Relief So-
ciety is in good condition, we have com-
menced to put up a frame building for society
purposes, 18x26 feet, which we are in hopes
of completing this coming spring or sum-
mer if no unforseen events transpire to
have it otherwise. In accordance with the
counsel of our late beloved President we
have laid up forty-five bushels of wheat, but
the grasshoppers destroying almost all our
crops last fall, we could not add to it as
much as we would like, but through the
blessings of God we hope to do better an-
other year. We likewise wish to throw in
our mite towards building the Temple at
Logan, for which we have started a Five-
cent-Fund, to be paid once a month, think-
ing it would give all the poor a chance to
contribute to that laudable undertaking in
which we are all so deeply interested. We
remember the poor and administer to their
necessities as occasion requires.
	For quite a few years after this place was
settled it belonged to Utah; but of late years
the surveyors have drawn the dividing line
and have left us out in the cold; and a
pretty cold corner it is sometimes, never-
theless we try to catch the spirit of the
times that is among our sisters in Utah
who are trying to build up the kingdom of
God.
	At the present time there is a great deal
said about Woman's Rights, and how some
men are opposed to women coming forward
to claim them either as suffragists, or to try
to stem the current of crime that comes so
glaringly to the front in every large city
and town; in my humble opinion I think
that through tradition or some other cause,
the trouble has been because woman has
been too yielding, and it will take all the
ability of what is termed the "strong-mind-
ed women" to assist the weaker and teach
them to act with more independence of
character, and I believe it is in the power
of woman to bring about a great reform in
this respect.
	On October 30th, we were blessed with a
visit from Sisters Zina D. Young and E.
Davis, we had a splendid meeting at which
Mrs. Z. D. Young organized a Young La-
dies Mutual Improvement Association,
which is in good working order and will
result in a great amount of good to the
daughters of Zion who will improve the
opportunities—given them in the Associa-
tions. We likewise have a Y. M. M. I. A.
here, and those who attend as a natural
consequence, improve in public speaking,
and in the knowledge of the Gospel.
	Success to your valuable little paper, I
for one would feel very lonesome without
it. I am your Sister in the Gospel.
				ELIZABETH FOX,
					President R. S.

[Column 3]
	JOSEPH, SEVIER, Co., March 11, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The Relief Society was re-organized at
this place Dec. 6, 1877, under the direction
of Bishop G. A. Murdock. We had an ex-
cellent meeting, and much good instruc-
tion was given. The election of officers
was as follows:
	Mary J. Davis, President.
	Lucinda E. Murdock,	} Counselors.
	Sarah A. Ross,		}
	Lydia L. Wells, Secretary.
	Martha A. Wells, Assistant Secretary.
	Floria A. Russell, Treasurer.
	We meet together once in two weeks,
and our meetings are well attended; we
number twenty-nine members, but expect
our number will continue to increase. We
have stored thirty-nine bushels of grain;
we have a lot and expect to fence it this
coming summer, and then we shall set out
mulberry trees. We are striving to become
united in doing all the good we can towards
building up Zion. With best wishes for
the prosperity of the EXPONENT, your sis-
ter, &c.,				L. L. WELLS, Sec'y.

	WALES, SANPETE CO., March 16, 1878.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	Our Relief Society has been reorganized:
This is a very small place, but we are both
willing and anxious to do all the good we
can. Our President is Mrs. Margaret L.
Reese, Counselors, Mrs. Jane Edmunds,
and Mrs. Jemima Dans, Miss Maggie
Reese, Secretary, Mrs. Eliza Reese, Treas-
urer. We had a young ladies society here
for some time which resulted in good.
Our meetings were interesting, but as there
are now but three young girls unmarried,
we have joined with the Relief Society, 
that we may be useful, and move forward
in an organized capacity.
		MISS MAGGIE REESE, Secretary.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	DURING THE great Exposition at Paris
the coming season there will be an Interna-
tional Congress of all women who are inter-
ested in the advancement of the sex. Prob-
ably this Congress will be one of great
significance, as there will be women of
marked ability and note from all parts of
the enlightened world.
	ON THURSDAY, March 7th, King Hum-
bert opened the Italian Parliament in per-
son by a speech from the throne. He said:
"We shall consolidate and render fruitful
the great work of Italian unity, to which
its glorious founder devoted his life." In
reference to the Holy See he said: "Pope
Pius IX, after governing the church for
thirty-two years, has descended to the
tomb, regretted and venerated. The rites
of electing his successor have been perform-
ed in perfect freedom, and without disturb-
ing the tranquility of the State, the peace
of consciousness or the independence of the
ministers of religion. By maintaining our
institutions, and reconciling respect for re-
ligion with a determined defence of State
laws, and the principles of civilization, we
prove how great are the fruits of liberty.
We are confident that in our hands Italy
will not fall from her exalted position."


﻿The definition of bankruptcy by Mr.
Commissioner Kerr, is reported as "a state
of things where a man owes a lot of money,
and an accountant and a lawyer divide his
estates between them."


168		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

BRIGHAM CTIY, ARIZONA, March 10.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	*	*	You ask me if the EXPONENTS came
safely to hand; I received eight in number
without a soil or rent, and I feel that many
thanks are due to you for complying with my
request so readily. President John W. Young
was here and organized this branch of the
Church and named our place Brigham City,
instead of Ballenger's Camp. Brother Lake is
our Bishop; he said he was glad to see the EX-
PONENT in the camp, and would join with me
in sending for it. The settlements are in a
prosperous condition; all are busy putting in
grain and early garden seeds. Many of the
brethren have gone out among the Indians to
preach the Gospel to them; they receive them
and treat them kindly. I hope you will con-
tinue to send the EXPONENT to me, I hail them
with delight, and I am now looking for them,
anxiously expecting them every day. Please
direct the same as before. I feel to thank you,
Sister Wells, for your kind wis[-]es towards my-
self and the camp in general. There are many
trials here for us to bear, which you there in
your comfortable homes can hardly realize.
With love I remain as ever your sister in the
Gospel,			MATILDA P. KILLIAN.


﻿A Congress of German Women was re-
cently opened at Frankfort, Germany. The
subjects discussed were prejudices, reform
in the education of women, the literature
of youth, woman in the family, the obsta-
cles to the extension of the employment of
women, influence in social life etc.—Ex.


[Column 1]
NOTICE.

All who may wish to purchase silk-worm
eggs can obtain them from Mrs. Lorinda Robin-
son of Farmington. It would be well for those
who intend to purchase to secure what quanti-
ty they may need, and if desirable they could
leave them in Mrs. Robinson's care till it was
time to make use of them. Mulberry trees of
all sizes can be obtained from President
Young's farm, just south of the city, by apply-
ing to Wm. Rossiter, at the President's Office.
The [-]rees are from five to forty cents apiece,
according to size.

SILKWORM EGGS FOR SALE
at the residence of
MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG,
State Road, 13th Ward.
Price $4 00 Per Ounce.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
MRS. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saler[-]om to
NO. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings' Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, [-]o call and examine: her stock of: Hats made from
the late[-]t Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every-
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment,
at moderate prices.
	Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
and Altered.

		GENEALOGICAL!
LATTER-DAY SAINTS who come from the States of
	New England, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania
or Delaware, or whose ancestors were native of either
of those States, who desire to obtain their Genealogies,
could not do better than to employ B. F. Cummings, Jr.,
who proposes to go east for that purpose during the
present Winter. Parties interested should send for Cir-
cular, giving terms and full instructions.
		Addr[-]ss,
						B. F. CUMMINGS, JR.,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

[Column 2]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOOK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descriptions.
			MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
AT
TEASDEL'S.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND ADDRESS—Main Street, over Dr.
Richards' Drug Store, nearly opposite Z. C. M. I.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
DRY GOODS,
IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake C.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

