VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 1, 1877.	NO. 7.


[For the EXPONENT.
DOWN BY THE RIVER.

Sweetest memories throng my mind,
	As I muse upon a scene,
Where the joyous play of fancy,
	Lingers as o'er some fond dream,
I would tell to you the story,
	Listen softly for awhile,
'Tis a pleasing lovely picture,
	Which the saddest hours beguile.
It was down among the grasses.
	Dotted with the daisies bright,
That I often used to wander
	By the silvery pale moonlight.
Not a sound disturbed my dreaming
	But the constant river's flow,
With its shim'ring rippling waters,
	White and clear and pure as snow,
It was on a lovely evening,
	That I linger'd by this stream
With a dear companion near me,
	Fairer than the moonlight's gleam;
And our thoughts were fresh and tender
	And our hearts were all aglow
With the beauties of the hour.
	As we wander'd to and fro.
And the river with its murmur,
	Gently flowing through the dell,
In a deep and silent language
	Some wild legend seemed to tell.
And the music of its waters.
	Like a far off echos sweet.
Thrilled each pulse with holy feeling
	And the charm was most complete.
And when noon-day sun shone brightest,
	There beneath the tall trees shade,
With my friends and lov'd companions,
	Games of childhood oft I've play'd
And at evening hushed and holy
	When the lulling zephyr's sweep
At my mother's knee I whisper'd
	Now I lay me down to sleep.
Happy scenes of sunny childhood.
	All too bright and gay to last,
Yet around me ever hovers,
	Sweetest visions of the past.
		ANNA.
Aug. 25, 1877.


[Column 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

	PHILADELPHIA, PENN., Aug, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In receipt of your little paper, I can truly
say that I am pleased with it,—further I
am more than pleased. I find it a noble
effort in behalf of woman's advancement,
and it well deserves to take its place side
by side, with the yet few, but increasing,
earnest and effective exponents of the new
Evangel of this nineteenth century. In
the name of my sisters in the States, en-
gaged in this grand cause so dear to us all,
I send greetings and best wishes, for the
success of your worthy enterprise. It is
no small matter to keep a paper in existence
after it is born, and the effort to nurse it up
into the strong, healthful, potent life de-
sired for it, calls forth all the energy, perse-
verance and fertility of brain, in those who
have imposed upon themselves the noble
task.
	I am glad to have read the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT, and am sorry not to have made an
earlier acquaintance with it. I am this
glad, and this sorry, for more reasons than
one,—the one particular reason being, that,
I have received light upon a subject in re-
gard to which, I was not only in the dark,
but in regard to which myself in common

[Column 2]

with the people generally in the States,
have been, as I now believe, deceived,—
that is, as to the condition of the women of
Utah, as woman and as citizen. After hav-
ing read the two articles in your July 15th
number "The Elective Franchise in Utah,"
and "Work for Women," on went my
thinking cap, and I assure you, I have come
frm under this utile piece of brain-gear
somewhat wiser than when I donned it. It
is the truth, and I am going to make a clean
breast of it, for there is no shame in being
misled, only in staying so in the face of
evidence, that the women of the States
have jumped at very unjust conclusions in
regard to their sisters in Utah. Upon a
"sealed book no one is able to pass judg-
ment" and certainly no one has a right in
public, where opinion is influenced, to com-
ment upon a subject in regard to which
they are ignorant. Who have been our
teachers I cannot say, but I confess that
the women here, in counting our victories
and in summing up the advance in re-
spect to the franchise of our sex, while
considering Wyoming as the first trophy
taken in the grand contest for the right, do
not look upon women suffrage in Utah as
worth a fillip. In fact we never speak of it
as we do of the first as a government for, of
and by the people, and we only and silently
once in awhile think of it as a government
wherein man is the tyrant and woman the
submissively tyrannized over—that each
man has not merely his own vote, but just
as many votes as he owns wives, and that
each woman is either an oriental doll or a
domestic drudge, with neither impulse nor
impetus towards an individualized exist-
ence, nor any other ambition than that of
pleasing her lord and rightful owner. In
short, that women are "driven like a flock
of sheep at the will of the driver."
	I have given you frankly an expose of
the opinion in the States of the position of
the women of Utah. May your able little
EXPONENT do the work of disproving what
I now truly believe to be erroneous in the
highest degree, and if well circulated, I
am confident that it has the power to do so.
	The question of woman's political status
is the first question—this once decided, her
other interests will regulate themseles;
and upon this question, should the women,
both of this land and over the seas, meet in
harmony and good faith.
	I hold that we Suffragists in the States
have nothing to do with the religious cou-
ditions, or the social tastes or condition of
our sisters in Utah, nor with those of each
other even, and it is to be regretted that
there are those, who do make it their busi-
ness to mix things up in this way.
	I will mail you samples of the tracts and
envelopes of the Citizen's Suffrage Associa-
tion an organization formed in 72—an off-
shoot of the older association, and the bold-
est, most uncompromising, most democrat-
ic of all—whose one tenet is Suffrage the
inherent right of the citizen of a Republic
—Universal Suffrage, irrespective of sex,
color, caste, creed, condition, the basis of a
true Democracy.
	I have just read your article in "Woman's
Words." Why not endeavor to show what
you are doing in Deseret through one of
our daily or Sunday papers, I am sure the

[Column 3]

would be very happy to publish anything
you might write.
	I shall look forward to the appearance of
your new book "The Women of Mormon-
dom."
	With the kindest wishes I remain your
sister in woman's cause,
	MRS. VIRGINIA BARNHURST.


NOTES AND NEWS.
A NEW discovery has been made of two
heavenly bodies thought to be satellites of
the planet Mars.  The discovery was made
on Thursday Aug. 23, at 11, p. m. by the
aid of the great telescope, by Prof. Hall of
the Washington Government Observatory.
Commodore Rogers has notified the astro-
nomical world of this new achievement of 
science.
 IT IS said that Russia has succeeded in
inducing Servia and Greece to simultane-
ously declare war against Turkey, also that
the Russians are concentrating on the river
Lomer, and that an attack on Kayrad is
thought to be imminent.  Mehomet Ali is
fortifying the place and has 40,000 men to
defend it.  Dispatches of Aug. 27, say that
from the manner in which the Russians
are pushing forward reinforcements to
Schippa Pass they must be confident of be-
ing able to resist any advance from the riy-
er Lomer.
 ON SATURDAY morning Aug. 25, about
3. 30, during a terrific rain and wind
storm the Union Pacific bridge at Omaha,
Neb. was so seriously damaged that it is
not possible to repair it in less than two or
three months, it is supposed to have been a
cyclone which struck it at the Eastern end
and about 500 feet of it was precipitated
into the river.  The piers are left standing
uninjured.  The loss is estimated at $350,
000.  Trains will probably have to transfer
passengers and freight by way of Platts-
mouth, Nebraska, and Missouri Valley.  It
has been proposed to put in a Howe Truss
over the break in the bridge.  If this can
be done successfully trians will be running
over the bridge inside of three months.
The debris is being rapidly cleared away.


GRAIN EXPORTS OF INDIA.—It may
startle some of our readers who have been
accustomed to think of India as a land of
forever-recurring famine, to learn that the
India export of wheat to England promises
at no distant day to make that peninsula
continent a formidable rival with our own
great West in the English markets. Yet
such is the fact. Since Lord Northbrook
took off the foolish export duty on grain
from India the grain trade from India to
England has risen from 144,441 cwt. in 1871
to 3,279,887 cwt. in 1876. Meanwhile the
export from Russia to England has been
falling, and India last year sent to Eng-
land one-third as much grain as Russia and
one sixth as much as the United States.
India now stands third in the list of coun-
tries which supply England with grain.
The bearing which this is likely to have on
England's final verdict as to her real inter-
est in the Eastern question is obvious
enough.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORT

CLIFTON; ONEIDA Co. Aug. 4th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
Our Society is in  flourishing condition.
The grain question was again brought be-
fore the sisters in our last meeting and
there was a unanimous vote carried, that
we exert ourselves to the utmost ability in
obtaining grain to lay up. The hoppers
have damaged the crops very badly but we
intend to work with the hope in view that
God will help those who help themselves.
 Our President has a fine son born on the
22nd of July. Mother and son are doing
well. Household duties occupy my time
pretty much but when tired and perplexed,
I find it a great comfort to spend a few mo-
ments in reading the EXPONENT. The ex-
cellent advice and hints to mothers should
not escape the notice of any mother in Zion,
for who is there among us that does not
need to learn much in relation to the rear-
ing of a family? 
 With best wishes I remain a sister.
				D. E. DUDLEY.

HYRUM, CACHE Co., Aug. 9, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 On Tuesday the 7th inst., the Relief So-
ciety of this ward held their ninth anniver-
sary meeting at 10 a. m. in the Public Hall,
which was very tastefully decorated by the
young ladies. There were present Elders
James Unsworth, Charles C. Shaw, Father
Benson, and H. J. Johnson. President
Christina Liljenquist called the meeting
to order and after the usual opening servi-
ces the Secretary, Nancy M. Neilson read
the financial report which showed that
$253,25 had been donated during the year.
Eleven quilts and a number of other arti-
cles had been made by the society. This
amount has been used for missionaries, for
the poor, given toward the temple etc., a
balance remaining in the treasury. The
Society has one hundred and sixty bushels
of wheat in the granary; also has shares in
the Co-op store and cash out on interest.
After reading the report the following offi-
cers were re-elected: Christina Liljenquist,
President, Christina Johnson and Ruth Mc-
Bride Counselors, Nancy M. Neilson, Sec-
retary, R. Allen Assistant Secretary, and
Keziah Allen, Treasurer. The meeting
was one of great interest; the remarks of
the brethren and sisters were replete with
good and wise counsel. The spirit of God
rested upon both speakers and hearers.
One of the brethren in his remarks said he
had during the past nine years been ac-
quainted with the labors of the society was
pleased with their course, and he had never
seen a better spirit manifested in a meeting
than he had felt was with them on that oc-
casion. It gave him great pleasure to see
the growth and improvement from year to
year. These actual facts explode the idea
that the Women of Utah are the down-trod-
den beings the world suppose them to be.
  A sumptuous, dinner wns served at 1.30,
p. m. to which a free invitation was ex-
tended to all the widows and poor of our
town. One hundred and fifty persons sat
down to dinner.
	Respectfully Yours,
		NANCY M. NEILSON
					Secretary.

		Honeyville July 17, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
I feel it a pleasure to have Calls Fort
have a name in the  Relief Society. I feel
this is a great work in which we are en-
gaged, and also that it is a great privilege
to be one to help to do all in my power to
assist in doing good. I hope we will im-
prove upon the talents which the Lord has
given to us; if we are not called to go into
the world to preach the Gospel, we can save
grain and do many things that will help
roll on the kingdom of God. We can be
careful and economical, and dress in a suit-
able and becoming manner, as saints and
women who delight to serve God and keep
His commandments.
	Sisters, let us quit following after foolish
and disgraceful fashions, and try to do the
will of our Father in Heaven, and see that
we have oil in our lamps, and be prepared
to receive the blessings in store for the
faithful.
	Our Society was organized by President
Harriet Snow and others from Brigham
City. We hold our meetings twice a month;
we feel our sisters have done well in the
past year. We have stored five hundred
and five bushels of wheat, and expect to
lay up still more.
		Your sister in the covenant, 
		HARRIED HUNTSUCKER.

  CLARKSON, CACHE Co, Aug. 8, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 The people here are enjoying the bless,
ings of health and general prosperity, for
which we feel thankful to God the Giver of
all good gifts. We have a new meeting
house, 56 feet by 134, 16 feet in the height
of ceiling; it is finished sufficiently so we
can meet in it. Our Bishop, John Jardine,
and the brethren have been diligent in their
efforts to build it, and the sisters of the Re-
lief Society have done a noble part towards
it, selling their butter and eggs to pay the
cash part of the expenses. We have a good
Sunday School, the children are now prac-
tising for the Jubilee, which is to be held
in Logan on the 25th of August. The sis-
ters of the Relief Society meet twice a
month to hold their meetings; they speak
words of comfort and encouragement to
each other, and try to accomplish all the
good possible, and take care of the poor and
sick, and help in every good work. We
number about thirty in our society at
present.
 Praying the Lord to bless each and every
one of us, that we may gain an exaltation
in the Celestial kingdom, we remain
	Yours in the Gospel,
	   MARY GRIFFIN, President,
		JANE GODFREY, Secretary.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
The Young Ladies’ Association of Nephi
are striving to do what is required of us,
that we may receive the blessings that God
has promised to bestow upon those who
love Him and keep His commandments.
 We meet together every Friday; we edit
a Weekly Journal that is entirely sustained
by the young ladies. Our meetings are not
as well attended as we would like them to
be, but all who do attend enjoy themselves,
and take pleasure in speaking and writing
upon the principles of our holy religion, for
we know that if we obey them they will
save and exalt us in our Father’s kingdom.
We held our second annual meeting on the
28th of June in the Social Hall, which was
decorated for the occasion. We were fa-
vored by a visit from Bishop Grover and
several other brethen, also from some of the
members of the Relief Society. After the
usual exercises had been gone through, our
Journal was read by the editor, after which

the brethren spoke on various interesting
subjects. They said we were improving,
and that our paper was a credit to us. They
spoke very encouragingly, and exhorted us
to continue to improve, that we might be
prepared for the responsibilities that will be
placed upon us if we are faithful in dis-
charging our duties. In the evening the
young ladies gave a social party, which was
satisfactorily managed by them. All
seemed to enjoy themselves. The pro-
ceeds from the party are to be used to buy
books to enlarge our library, for we are anx-
ious to procure good books that we may
improve our minds.
 On the 9th of July a special meeting was
called for our Association. President John
W. Young, Elder George Q. Cannon and
several of the local brethren were present.
 They spoke upon Plural Marriage and
the Word of Wisdom, and advised us to be
neat and clean, and learn to be good house-
keepers, and to cultivate a cheerful and
amiable disposition. They spoke of the
bad habits that some of the young men in-
dulge in—drinking liquors, using tobacco,
and taking the name of the Lord in vain.
They wished us to use our influence with
the young men, to try and induce them to
abandon their evil habits and live better
lives. President John W. Young called
upon us to vote that we will not counten-
ance the attentions of those who make it a
practise to get drunk and indulge in evil
practices. We voted that we will do all in
our power for the good of the young men,
and use our utmost influence, and with the
help of God we will remain firm in our
covenant. They gave us much practical
advice, and we realize that if we carry it
our in our daily lives we will be greatly
benefitted. We feel to thank them for
meeting with us, and we hope it will not
be the last time that they will favor us with
a visit.
	Hoping that God will bless all who are
trying to serve him, we remain, 
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		M. E. PICTON, President,
			S. A. HOYT, Secretary.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	It is not generally. known, I think that
George Eliot, though she has never written
a play for the stage, has yet had a hand in
more than one. Her husband, Mr. G. H.
Lewes, the philosopher, is the Mr. Savile
Rowe who has a piece at the Prince of
Wales’ running now, and he has more than
once announced a literary partnership. His
fellow author is his wife. George Eliot’s is
not a dramatic talent; but she is capable of
writing good dialogues, and her humor is
real comedy.
	TEACH THE CHILDREN.—Teach them 
that a true lady may be found in calico
quite as frequently as in velvet.
	Teach them that a common school educa-
tion, with common sense, is far better than
a college education without it.
	Teach them that one good honest trade,
well mastered, is worth a dozen beggarly
professions.
	Teach them to respect their elders and
themselves.
	Teach them that to wear patched clothes
is no disgrace.
	Teach them that God is no respecter of
sex, and that when He gave the seventh
commandment He meant it for them as
well as their sisters.
	Teach them that by indulging their de-
praved appetites in the worst forms of dis-
sipation they are unfitting themselves to
become the husbands of pure girls.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.﻿


IN GENERAL.

She wouldn't have on her naughty bib;
She wouldn't get in her naughty crib;
She wouldn't do this and wouldn't do that,
And she would put her foot in her Sunday hat,
And she wouldn't look over her picture book;
She wouldn't run out to help the cook;
She wouldn't be petted or coaxed or teased,
And she would do exactly whatever she pleased,
She wouldn't have naughty rice to eat; 
She wouldn't be gentle and good and sweet;
She wouldn't give me one single kiss—
Pray, what can we do with a girl like this?
—Ex.


THE BIRTHDAY.

BY LOUISE S. UPHAM.

Another darling baby,
	A household pet and joy,
A smiling, dimpled treasure,
	A precious baby boy!

With love we greet the stranger,
	Our hearts with bliss are mute;
And joy and hopeful gladness
	Are ours beyond compute.

So helpless and so fraglic,
	Our tender floweret seems,
We muse, "Is this more real
	Than other pleasant dreams?

"Or shall we wake, some morning,
	To find a rifled nest,
And weeping, feel that birdie
	Is thus more truly blest?"

Father, we crave Thy blessing
	For this dear little one;
We pray for grace to help us
	Perfect the life begun.

With Virtue's shining halo
	Encircle his fair brow,
And raise him up to manhood,
	Spotless and pure as now.

Father, Thy gift we cherish;
	We thank Thee for our son;
Thine here, or thine in Heaven,
	We'll say, "Thy will be done!"

		SELECTED.


[Column 1]
	For the EXPONENT.
PIPSEY PAPERS.

	How small and weak I am, lying here so
helpless, and thinking of the strong, brave
things I should like to do. My fancy goes
out to the far future and weaves bright
pictures, and dreams fair dreams, of things
longed for, and hopes whose fruition may
never be realized. It takes labor, and deep
thought, and steady purpose to accomplish
any great good, or arise to eminence in any
particular calling. I am not lacking in per-
severance, in forethought, in will to do,
but my puny strength is so weak for the
task that is laid before me. The ordinary
cares and responsibilities of life call my at-
tention, fill up my time, and use the
strength of both mind and body until there
is but little left to battle with the higher
laws of nature. And yet my life is not a
blank: there may have been a lack of music
and poetry, but there is much in the prose
of all lives that is noble and good. There
is depth and pathos and fervor. There is
sweetness and tenderness that imprints the
heart, and a grand sublimity that awakens 
the echoes of old time music in our soul,
and resounds to a higher impulse than the
lyric strains of a mere rhythmical sensation.
How little we know as we are plodding
among the interminable cares and perplexi-
ties of the dull routine of daily life, the
bright possibilities that lie in the future.
	We live two lives. One, the outer life,
which appeals to the grosser sensibilities of
our nature, is filled with the daily routine
of duties, the household affairs, the care

[Column 2]

and annoyances consequent on the sur-
roundings in which we are placed. The
other is a dream life, filled with the higher
aspirations of our hearts. The bright im-
aginations with which we are wont to while
away the tediousness of mending Johnny's
torn jacket. There is no romance in the
dirty jacket, but with what a halo we en-
circle the curly head that is now nestled
down with its sweet face pressing the pil-
low which our hands have made clean and
fresh. We weave in imagination a bright
future for the little fellow, following him
forth a stalwart man battling with the pos-
sibilities of life, winning honor and renown,
holding high resolves, and bringing us
comfort and joy in our life's decline. Alas!
how often are our dreams but idle ones. I
saw a stricken lamb, the pride and comfort
of his parents and friends, a child of rare
promise, handsome and intelligent: a bruise
on the arm, a ride in the hot sun, and in
nine days the mortal remains of little Peter,
putrid and sickening, was all that was left
to tell of the terrible struggle death had
ere he came off conqueror. How little we
know when our beautiful ones will be
snatched from us; and how careful we
should be to attend to wounds, lest they
should prove more serious than we think
they are. God gives us the little ones to
cherish and protect, let us then lead them
forth with kind instructions and good ex-
amples, to fit them for the higher duties of
life, that our beautiful dreams may not be
vain ones. That one day the curly heads
that now nestle so fondly to our bosoms
may be held proudly, and the feet may
tread firmly the paths of honor, and the
laws of life and progress be carried out.
	How many pure hearts and bright spirits
have gone forth into the world innocent
and lovely, but the contaminating influence
of surrounding circumstances, vicious as-
sociations, a false step, and lo! the mind is
corrupted, the heart becomes impure, and
no skill or wisdom can save them from deg-
radation fouler than the corruption of death,
and deeper than the silence of the grave.
	MARY.
PROVO, Aug., 1877.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

	TOOLE CITY, Aug. 13, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I have often thought I would like to
mingle my voice with the rest of my sis-
ters through the columns of the EXPONENT,
and having a few moments for reflection I
will try to express myself on a subject dear
to my heart.
	I cannot but thank my Heavenly Father
for reserving my spirit until the last days,
so that I can become useful in helping to 
build up the Kingdom of God. I used to
feel as if everything was a sealed book to
me, but I am happy to say that through
obedience to the will of God I can under-
stand to a great degree that which I hear
and read. A man or woman guided by the
spirit of God can understand for them-
selves that the principles of the Gospel are
true. My own experience has taught me
more than all the world can do, and no one
can take that knowledge from me if I do
the will of my Father which is in heaven;
He has promised that if we faithfully obey
His commandments, we shall know that our
Redeemer lives and intercedes for us. If
we allow ourselves to feel unhapy and de-
sponding we are yielding to evil influences,
and we forget ourselves and our holy mis-
sion here. The sooner we retrace our steps


the better it will be for us, for the adver-
sary is always on the alert to take advan-
tage of our weaknesses, so it behooves us
to be on our guard. The Lord will never
forsake us if we do not grieve His Holy
Spirit. When we are tempted and tried,
let us enter our closets and tell our Heav-
enly Father our troubles, and if we go with
a humble and contrite spirit. He will for-
give us our sins. Dear sisters let us obey
all the counsels of our beloved President
Brigham Young, whether it is in saving
grain for a future day, or raising silk or any
thing else that he may call upon us to do.
Let us strive to become self-sustaining and
aim to make ourselves useful as well as or-
namental, and if we cultivate His holy
spirit, God will lead, guide, and direct us in
all righteousness.
	We receive the EXPONENT regularly and
it is read with interest.
	A. TATE.


CORRESPNDENCE.

	FAIRVIEW, Aug. 7, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In your issue of Aug. 1st, I notice an ar-
ticle entitled "A word to the young people
of Zion." As we do not all look at one sub-
ject from the same standpoint I sometimes
think that the older people are as much to
blame as the young, and in consideration
thereof I offer you a few of my ideas if
you have space for them in your valuable
paper.
	The subject of instructing the young and
to caution them against what would prove
detrimental to them in the future, is cer-
tainly one of the most noble acts that a hu-
man being could perform. But how to ac-
complish the desired result is a matter that
may call for much thought, time and study.
	In my humble way of reasoning I have
always thought that the best mothers would
be examples, this connected with earnest-
ness, kindness and love to such an extent
that it might be felt, yes, seen by the young,
could not fail to do much to elevate man-
kind. But what effect will preaching the
Word of Wisdom have upon the sons when
the father makes use of those things
(against which he preaches) not only for his
own gratification, but, even, as bribes or in-
ducements before his sons to accomplish
his work in the harvest-field canon, and so
forth. Or of what service will a sermon
against profane language be to a man's fam-
ily who himself indulges in the degrading
—not to use a harsher term—practice? And
cannot any intelligent woman see that she
will never be able to undo the evil she
brings upon her daughters when she speaks
in one way before a person's face and in
another behind her back?
	If the minds of the young were not such
that they rather look at our actions and pat-
tern thereby, than to reason for themselves,
all these things might be over looked; but
as it is I would say to my brethren and sis-
ters, show us by your actions what you be-
lieve and the good you will, through the
aid of God, accomplish for the future good
and happiness of mankind, will be a star in
your crown in the great day of our Lord
and Savior.
	A. M. N.


ZEALOUSLY keep down little expenses
and you will not incur larger ones.
	A COLLEGE education does not cost as
much as a piano. Let no girl believe she
has no opportunity to become well educat-
ed.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

	THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
EMMELINE B. WELLS. . . . Editor.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
				Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, SEPT. 1, 1877.


[Column 1]

IN MEMORIAM.

PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG.

Sweet sleep, sweet rest, enwrap his mortal clay,
The soul now freed—breathes in an ampler day
And we but twine the cypress-wreath in vain,
For our great loss, is his eternal gain.

	The beloved Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, so
dear to the heart of every true Latter-day
Saint, this great, good and wise man has left
this mortal sphere, and gone to join the pro-
phet Joseph and others behind the veil, who
have been in times past associated with him
in establishing the kingdom of God on the
earth in this last dispensation. The announce-
ment of his death will cast a shadow of grief
over the whole Territory of Utah. There is,
perhaps, no man in the world so greatly and
truly beloved, and none whose loss will be
more deeply felt than President Brigham
Young. He departed this life at one minute
past four o'clock, p. m., on Wednesday, Aug.
29,surrounded by his wives, children and friends
whom he had ever so tenderly loved and cher-
ished. Words are weak to express the esteem
and honor in which he was held by this peo-
ple. Thousands and tens of thousands will
mourn for him with sincere love and grief. In
the fullest sense of the word he was a father
to the Latter-day Saints, and his memory can
never be effaced from their hearts. It is writ-
ten there in characters imperishable. He was
a friend to all men and women who were hon-
est and true, of whatever nation or creed, and
the benefactor of all, who would be guided by
his wise and judicious counsel and precept.
	Undoubtedly he was one of the greatest men
that ever tabernacled in the flesh. His work
has been a magnificent one, and the record of
his life so full of great and good works is writ-
ten indelibly in unmistakable characters
throughout the length and breadth of Utah, a
living monument forever to the name of BRIG-
HAM YOUNG.
	Foremost among the many strong points in
the character of this illustrious man were those
inestimable, genial, social and affectional
qualities of heart that attract and draw out the
warmest senitments of attachment in the fam-
ily and social circles.
	President Young was an indefatigable and
earnest worker for improvement and progres-
sion; a man of strong personal influence and
spiritual strength, adapted by nature and soul
for all the exigencies and necessities of the
work which devolved upon him as the success-
or of Joseph Smith.
	The people of this entire Territory and of the 
church and kingdom of God throughout the
world, will mourn his loss sincerely, remem-
bering his many and wise instructions, and
cherishing in their inmost hearts the most sa-
cred remembrances of him, not only as their

[Column 2]

pioneer leader, but as their brother and friend,
and a man of God.
	As husband, father, brother and friend his
record has few, if any parallels.
	As a great leader, diplomatist, and statesman
he lives immortalized in the world's history;
and the principles and opinions he held and
taught in regard to organization and co-oper-
ation were more perfect in theory than any
ever introduced; and if systematically carried
out on the broad and solid platform suited to 
his idea, would bring about a state of things
that would give permanence and security to
governmental and business transactions.
	Brigham Young was a native of New Eng-
land, and was born in the town of Whiting-
ham, Windham County, Vermont, on the 1st
day of June, 1801, but his father subsequently
removed to Mendon, Monroe County, New
York. He was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints April 14th,
1832, although he had heard and believed the
Gospel some time previous. From that time
until the present; his labors have been active
and unceasing in the work revealed from heav-
en to Joseph Smith. When the Twelve Apos-
tles were chosen his name was next to that of
Thomas B. Marsh, President of the quorum,
and when after a few years Marsh apostatized,
Brigham Young succeeded him as President
of the Twelve.
	Brigham Young, although he has past be-
hind the veil and we shall behold his face no
more, lives in the hearts of his people, and
will be perpetuated through the principles he
taught, which will yet be more fully devel-
oped in the lives and practice of the Latter-day
Saints. Brigham Young was the true friend
of Woman's enfranchisement and progression.
Volumes might be written of his life, his char-
acter, his many excellencies, and yet not the
half be told of this marvelous man, the won-
der of this nineteenth century.
	For Brigham Young no eulogium is needed,
everywhere his works praise him, and are
wreathed about his memory with a halo of ten-
derness as a crown of glory.


THE WOMAN'S GRAIN MOVEMENT
			IN UTAH.

CHARITIES AND INDUSTRIES.

 The season for storing up grain has now ar-
rived.  The gleaners are in the fields, and
many of the daughters of Zion have gone
forth to gather the scattered wheat left by the
harvesters. How noble for those who have
homes full of plenty and to spare to go into
the open fields in the hot sunshine and gather,
little by little, a few kernels to store away.
And for the poor sisters who have gone and
gleaned, who shall say it shall not be account-
ed unto them, in the great day of reckoning,
more than a garner full given by the rich, who
have a profusion of means and do not realize
the giving.
	The world may ridicule the idea of Mormon
women storing up a little handful of grain.
Does not the same God live to-day that gave
unto Elisha the prophet power to multiply the
widow's oil in the days of old?  And, that sent
Elijah to the widow of Zarephtath and found
her gathering sticks, and when he asked her to
fetch him a little water to drink and a morsel
of bread to eat, she answered, "As the Lord
thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but an hand-
ful of meal in a barrel, and a little oil in a
cruse: and behold, I am gathering two sticks,
that I may go in and dress it for me and my
son, that we may eat it and die."  All who
have read the Scriptures know how the meal
and the oil were increased until the day that
the Lord sent rain upon the earth.  The same
God has charge concerning His people now,
and has a tender and special care for the wid-
ows and fatherless.  It is the humble and meek
and lowly that the Lord loves.  The Savior
chose for his associates and companions the
poor, and he pronounced upon them the choic-
est blessings.
	This year there is an abundant harvest of
grain, and it will be well for the Latter-day
Saints if they remember to listen to the coun-
sel which has been given by President Brig-
ham Young in regard to laying up grain, and
seek with all diligence to carry out his wishes,
so plainly expressed, telling the sisters to go to
work and unite together and co-operate and
store up grain.
	There is testimony upon testimony that such
a course will be wise, the very fact of the re-
cent famine in India is one strong argument
to the thinking mind, and the great Eastern
war, which seems likely to involve all the na-
tions of Europe, is of itself sufficient to war-
rant all peoples, while peace and plenty reign,
to prepare for future emergencies.
	The women of this church should be earnest
and active in all charities which are designed
to bless and comfort and improve the condition
of the human family; and to keep alive the in-
terests, and inspire with zeal and ardor those
who are engaged in any noble enterprise, de-
pends invariably upon the few.  It is the few
who carry the heavy burdens in any public
matter for the good of humanity.  It is the
few workers, real and effective, who shoulder
the responsiblities and roll on the true mech-
anism that brings about successful results, or
solves any difficult problem.
	In the industries established in Utah has it
not been the few who have exerted themselves,
using their time, means, and influence, while
the majority have stood still, remained indif-
ferent, or sought their own individual interest
and welfare, independent of the good and well-
being and future prosperity of the kingdom of
God, or the Territory of Utah?
	If the sisters would unite together, more of
them, and concentrate their efforts systemati-
cally, they could almost do anything they
wish to do in the right direction.  Humility
and faith with obedience to counsel will be
sure to bring down the special blessings of
heaven upon the good and great work com-
menced by the women of Utah.


HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE DESERET University commenced its
regular session, Monday, August 27, with its
former corps of teachers. Dr. J. R. Park,
Principal. The Academic year is divided into
four terms of ten weeks each. There are three
departments in the University—the Prepara-
tory, the Normal, and the Academic.
	MR. J. H. Elward, of St. Paul, Minn., called
at our office and spent an hour in conversation
with us on woman's work, the topics of the
day, and the ideas of different persons on the
immortality of the soul. Mr. Elward is the
inventor and proprietor of the "Elward Har-
vester," which has become general in use
throughout the country. He expressed him-
self pleased with the city and its many indus-
trial and other improvements.
	MISS M. E. Cook's Graded School in the
Social Hall will commence on Monday, Sept.
3d. This school is now fairly established on a
systematic scale of gradation. The building
has been newly fitted up, outside and inside,
and a new picket fence, new stairs and fresh


paint add much to the appearance of this Hall,
which was one of the first places built in the
Territory for a public use, and there are some
pleasant associations connected with the Social
Hall, which render it very dear to many of the 
pioneer saints.

	WE SEE in our exchanges much upon wo-
man's work in temperance, and we have also
had pamphlets, notices and letter sent us
from different places, regarding the labor actu-
ally performed in this good cause.  Ladies of
influence and position are earnest and active
in seeking to suppress, by some means, the
sale of ardent spirits.  The "Dunken Bill,"
presented in the Parliament of Great Britain,
it is ardently hoped by all interested in tem-
perancees will become a law.  This law requires
that not less than five gallons of liquor be sold
at a time.  Are not the women of Utah capa-
ble of taking gold of this matter, efficiently
and actively, and present a Bill to the Leg-
islative Assembly, which will meet the com-
ing winter-the first Monday in January?  This
subject has been under consideration now for
some time, and if it is possible for any regula-
tion to be brought about that will further this
good cause, may God speed woman and man
in the good work.

	MR. TULLIDGE'S new work, "The Women of 
Mormondom," is now fairly launched upon
the market.  This new and interesting book is
for sale at the Woman's Commision House,
price $3.00.  We would like to give our read-
ers a few choice and most brilliant paragraphs
from it, upon the woman question, that ques-
tion being one of the most popular subjects of
the times, both in America and Great Britian.
In the 59th chapter, page 516, you will find the 
following: it is most emphatic and prophet-
cal; and peculiarly adaptable to the spirit of 
the day:
The age of Messiah's coming is the woman's
age! or there is no sense in the utterances of
prophecy, nor meaning in the most beautiful
parables of Christ.
	And this is the woman's age! all humanity
is proclaiming it!
	The women of the age are obeying the im-
pulses of the age.  Do they know what those
impulses mean?  They have heard the cry and 
come forth.  Do they comprehend what that 
cry has signified?--'Behold, the Bridegroom
cometh; go ye out to meet him!"
	Unwittingly they are testing the Scriptures
and proving that the coming of the Messiah is 
the crowning truth of the world.  However
the five wise virgins of Zion are coming forth
in faith.  They are now unwittingly fulfilling
their Lord's word.  They have interpreted the
cry, and are trimming their lamps.
 Man may as well attempt to throw back
the ocean with the hollow of his hand, or put
out the sun with the breath of his command,
as to attempt to defeat the on-coming of 'Wo-
man's hour.'
	Let the God of humanity be praised for 
this; for did not the virgins come out at this 
eleventh hour, the fisherman might go to their
nets, and let the midnight pass, and earth
take the consequence.
	But how wondrously are the divine themes
of earth's grace from God revealed.  Down
through the ages they came, as echoes mel-
lowed into more celestial tones.
	Creation begins again! Zion-the New
Jerusalem-is the saint's bride.  She is the
coming Eve."  The author then makes a 
quotation from the Revelations of St. John,
concerning the new heaven and the new earth
and the marriage supper of the Lamb, and
proceeds as follows:
	"Truly there is a glorious prophesy and a 
sublime truth, hallelujahed from the ages down
in this proclamation of  woman's mission
at the hour of the Lord's coming.
	The lives of the Mormon women are as a 
testament to the age.  The very character
which their church has taken, as the literal
Zion of the latter-days, shall soon be recog-
nized as the symbol of the hour.
 And the virgins in every land shall hear
the cry, 'Behold, the Bridegroom cometh, go
ye out to meet him!"
	The author reasons well upon new civiliza-
tion in his closing chapter.
	"New civilizations are the chiefest boons of
humanity. Never was a new civilization more
needed than now, for in the last century the
world has rushed over the trackway of a thou-
sand years.  A train dashing forward at the 
rate of one hundred miles an hour would not
be in more danger than will soon be society,
unless a safety valve-a new civilization-is 
opened.
	This is the woman's age.  The universal
voice of society proclaims the fact. Woman
must, therefore, lay the corner-stone of the
new civilization.  Her arm will be most potent
in rearing the glorious structure of the future.
Man cannot prevent it for it is a divine intend-
ing." 
	These are the author's closing remarks: "We 
have seem the daughters of Zion, with her
sons, establish their institutions upon the 
foundation of new revelation.  We have seen
them rearing temples to the august name of
the God of Israel.  We have seen their match-
less faith, their devotion, their heroism.
	We have seen them because of their fidelity
to their religion, driven from city to city and
from State to State.
	We have seen them in the awful hour of
martyrdom.
	We have seen them in the exodus of mod-
ern Israel from Gentile civilization, following
their Moses.
 The daughters of Zion were going up to
the chambers of the mountains, to hide from
the oppressor till the day of their strength.
Their banners were then their pioneer whips.
Their banner now is female suffrage-on it in
scribed, "Woman's Rights! in the name of the 
God of Israel!'
	Fifty thousand of the daughters of Zion!
Each with her banner!
	We have seen them on the cross with their
crown of throns. We SHALL see them on their
throne, with their crown of glory.  In this is
divine and everlasting justice.
	They have sown in tears, they shall reap in
gladness.
	With their pioneer whips in their lands
they came up to the chambers of refuge, as 
exiles.
	With the sceptre of woman's rights, they
will go down as apostles to evangelize the 
nation.
 "'Who is she that looketh forth as the morn
ing, fair as the moon, clear as the sun and ter-
rible as an army with banners?'
	"The Daughter of Zion!"


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


LETTER TO MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG.

	WATERTOWN, NEW YORK.
		July 30th, 1877
MY DEAR NIECE:
	For a long time I have wanted to return
many thanks to some kind donor, for sending
me the excellent little paper, the WOMAN'S
EXPONENT. I have been much interested in
reading it.


I like your idea of home manufacture; you
seem to be making and inventing almost every-
thing that is useful and beautiful. I have
been very much interested in reading of your
silk manufacturing business; if it is carried to
perfection it will be almost invaluable. My
father once went into the silk culture; I was
at home a number of times while he was in
the business, and often saw the big worms eat-
ing their dinner from the mulberry leaves; it
did not seem to me I could ever handle them,
father and mother would pick the dear things
up so carefully and carry them from one bunch
of leaves to another, as tenderly as I would
handle the most delicate little baby. I never
had a dress from the manufactory, but I had
some very good sewing silk, that was the most
that my father manufactured. If you answer
this letter, which I very much hope you will,
will it be too much trouble to send me a little
specimen of dress silk? I see by the EXPO-
NENT that ladies have had dresses made from
your home manufacture, and it will much
oblige your old auntie. I was eigthy-three the
8th of last May—am living on borrowed time,
yet my general health is qnite good, can write,
read, knit, and do fine sewing; have not
strength to walk much, but love dearly to ride
in an easy carriage. As far as I know the
Huntington relatives are all enjoying usual
health. On the 7th of July my brother Cyrus,
the only brother I have living, and he is sev-
enty-six years old, celebrated the fifty-third
anniversary of his marriage, by having a fam-
ily gathering, which was a delightful one to
all present. He has four children, three sons
and one daughter; two of the sons are physi-
cians, one a farmer, and the daughter is the
wife of a wealthy farmer; the youngest was
killed in the rebellion. I must close this long
epistle by saying I do not expect to be here
many years more, God only knows. I feel
that I have a home in those mansions not
made with hands, eternal in the heavens. It
is twenty-five years ago to-day since my good
husband died. Mary unites with kind regards.
Please remember us to Dimick and wife.
	MRS. J. P. KIMBALL.


OBITUARY.
 Brigham Young Woodruff, son of Wilford
Woodruff, Sen., and Sarah Brown Woodruff,
was accidentally drowned at Logan, June 16,
1877, leaving many sorrowing relatives and
friends to mourn the loss of his kind and amia-
ble society. He was born January 18, 1857.
He was a young man strictly temperate in all
his habits, and particularly observant of all
the requirements made of him in the church,
and  an active member in the 14th Ward Sun-
day School. To know him was to love him.
He has many friends, and just previous to his
departure for the northern settlements, where
he was going fully prepared with intellectual
as well as exemplary instruction to take a 
school, to which position he had been appoint-
ed, he bade many of his friends good bye, and
left a pleasant "God bless you" for them all.
His relatives and friends find consolation in
the knowledge that though his young life, so
full of hope, had passed away so early, God
had a greater mission for him to fill beyond
the veil, and our Father calling he obeyed,
leaving as fair a name and record as any young
man could possibly desire. He died in full
faith of the Gospel, to come forth in the morn-
ing of the First Resurrection.
B. W. B.


GOOD words, like dew-drops, fall silently;
but who can tell their effects?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A MORMON WOMAN'S VIEW OF 
		MARRIAGE.

BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

 It is known to the world far and wide
that the Latter-day Saints believe in direct
revelation.  Through this channel (revela-
tion) they obtained the knowledge of the
principles of plural marriage and in no oth-
er way would pure and devotional women,
who had been educated and traditionated
in the ideas of the present age accept it. It
is truly the sacred phase of polygamy
which gives it prestige.
 The law of Celestial Marriage given to
Joseph Smith was a renewal of the same
order of matrimony practiced by the peo-
ple of God in ancient times.
 The angels sent to deliver the message
and these keys of knowledge, informed the
prophet Joseph that this holy order was
that which had existed forever, by which
men and women could become exalted; that
through no other covenant could they ob-
tain crowns and kingdoms, principalities
and eternal lives in the world to come, but
would be ministering servants to those who
had through obedience to this and all other
holy ordinances, obtained the fulness of
blessings and prepared themselves to enter
upon a higher plane.
 By this solemn covenant men and wo-
men could be joined together for eternity;
and only upon this principle could men take
more wives, or be sure of receiving again to
themselves their companions who had died
previous to their receiving a knowledge of
this law, except through this direct chan-
nel and power vested in the Holy Priest-
hood; which priesthood is after the order of
Melchizedek, to which reference is made
many times in the Old and New Testament.
This revelation was not given to be played
with, or as an idle saying, but as a com-
mandment from God; and one which in-
volved the most solemn obligations and re-
lationships.
The taking of more wives increases in a
very great degree a man's responsibilities;
not only is he bound to cherish them ten-
derly with his holiest and best affections;
but he should esteem them as precious jew-
els committed to his charge, for which he
must render an account of his stewardship
at the highest tribunal of Justice.  And it
would be well for the world to consider
that it was with a knowledge of all that
would be required, that Joseph Smith and
his brethren entered upon the practice of
the higher law.
 Any person conversant with the Holy
Scriptures may easily comprehend that even
David, although he was king over Israel,
received his wives at the hand of Nathan
the prophet, the one who held the keys of
this holy order of matrimony.  Through
this direct lineage the Savior descended;
yet the people in this so called enlightened
day look upon plural marriage as unholy
and seek to pass laws and devise ways and
means to criminate those who practice the
patriarchal form of marriage.  In ancient
days men and women talked with God and
were likely to understand His will.  To
look at the condition of the world, all who
make science a study may see that there is
some grievous misapplication of the laws of
life. People look on and try to find out
the cause, some will say women ruin their
health, consequently their offspring, with
their mode of dress, with dissipation, with
this or that excess, but they pass blindly
over the great primal cause, viz. the im-
proper, unjust and unholy marriage regula-
tions.  Men and women had so far degener-
ated from the true standard that they were
incapable by their own wisdom to arrive at
any succesful solution of the great problem
of life.
 Therefore God in His infinite wisdom re-
vealed to those who had proved their in-
tegrity to Him, by promulgating the Gos-
pel of truth, the law of Celestial Mar-
riage, and remember when He did so, it
was with a knowledge of the true science
of life; He knew that it would be an inno-
vation that men who were wise after the
manner of the world would not receive be-
cause of its unpopularity.  He inspired the
mind of Joseph Smith to make it known to
a few, those few, men and women of strict
moral principle, who had proven themselves
ready to die if necessary in the vindication
of truth.  They feared to disobey God more
than man.
 Religion according to its acceptation in
the nineteenth century relates to a spirit-
ual life only, and applies to spiritual works;
but TRUE religion covers all the ground of
one's temporal, as well as spiritual life
from the cradle to the grave, and reaches on
to eternal progression, and should enter into
the pre-natal influence of every mother
who is cognizant of the importance of bear-
ing the souls of men.  In many instances
it is pre-natal influences which stamp
themselves irremediably upon offspring so
that no after cultivation can wholly eradi-
cate the evil result.  If women desire to
bear children who will be able to perpetuate
themselves in races that will be honorable
and endurable, they should choose for their
companions, and the father of their off-
spring men of correct moral principle, who
fear God and strive to keep His laws.  It
is useless to tell women that they must
control and discipline themselves during
maternity in order to have wholesome and
superior children, if the husband is not pure
as well as the wife; for though the wife be
purity itself (if that were possible,) the
father if wicked and corrupt, stamps his na-
ture and temperament sufficiently upon his
offspring to contaminate the fountains of
life. An adulterated spring sends its poi-
sonous influence down through all its ave-
nues, and though scarcely perceptible, yet
the taint is there and impregnates those
who partake.  Grapes are not produced
from thorns nor figs from thistles.
	The world acknowledge that women sur-
pass men in innate purity, and if they
would preserve themselves pure through
their offspring, let them exact similar puri-
ty of the man with whom they unite in the
most sacred covenant ever consecrated, that
which is to be the promoter of a new life,
and perpetuate the human family.  Are
men who are unwholesome and dissipated
fit to become fathers?  Yet such men mar-
ry; and they never choose women of their
own caste, Oh no! a breath of suspicion
must  not shadow those whom they would
consign to lives of misery and degradation.
Women who have preserved themselves
chaste as the angels, whose offspring would
have been pure and sound, unite them-
selves with men who entail upon their
posterity such appetites and passions, as no
amount of self-denial, or discipline on the
part of the mothers, or after cultivation can
ever wholly obliterate.  When fathers
learn that God requires them to be pure as
well as the mothers, they will have ad-
vanced somewhat in the lessons of life.  God
knew that women were better prepared
than men to keep this higher law and that
there were more devotional women whan
men, and he desired them to become moth-
ers to bear a righteous and holy seed who
would serve Him, therefore He introduced
again the patriarchal form of marriage, and
gave to men who would abide His law the
privilege of having more wives, and He
will through this holy order purify men
and women and there will be at least a few
who will become a "fit temple for the Holy
Spirit to dwell in."  But God never gives a
law that has not a penalty attached if it is
broken, and the higher the law the more
fearful the consequences of breaking it.
Therefore those who desire to obtain the
promises, and higher exaltation must live
according to the requirements of this high-
er law, and will be called upon to make the
sacrifice of a broken and contrite heart not
after the spiritualized signification but lit-
erally.
 We are frequently asked the question
whether polygamy does not tend to indif-
ference in the marriage relations, or from
the very nature of the circumstances be-
come alienated in their affections.  We can
answer truthfully, No!  Plural marriage
makes woman more the companion and
much less the subordinate than any other
form of marriage; and when women have
learned to be self-reliant and self-sustain-
ing, and comprehend that in marriage
there is a higher purpose than being a man's
pet or even housekeeper, they will if edu-
cated in the most refined womanly sense,
choose to become the wives of men who are
living for lofty purposes, and their love
will partake more of the exalted tone and
sentiment, and their children become more
spiritual and inherit the elements of a high-
er nature.  It is grossly absurd to say plural
marriage is a sin in the sight of heaven when
we have abundant testimony before us, that
God has blessed this people in a most won-
derful manner ever since its practice.  More
than this, physicians, men of science, and
phrenologists have all failed to discover in
the children born in plural marriage any
inequalities, or lack of brain, or muscle and
fibre that would characterize children born
of unsuitable parentage.  There is a wide
field of knowledge open before us, and we
have only just begun to learn the true laws
of life, but if we keep ourselves pure and
humble, God will teach us how to overcome
all evil and obtain the exaltation promised
to those who will abide in the new and
everlasting covenant.
	S. L. City, Aug. 1877.


FACTS AND FIGURES.

	"THE oldest Bible in America, printed in
1495," was treasured and guarded at the 
Exhibition in a strongly framed class case.
	SMOKY STATISTICS.—The Boston Post
says that 8,000,000 cigars are smoked in
this country every day. When we consid-
er that there are over 8,000,000 voters in 
this country, and there are probably 15,000,
000, males from 16 to 90 years of age, we
are inclined to think that the estimate is
not too large. For every man who does not
somke at all we may estimate one who
smokes more than one cigar a day. At ten
cents each, these 8,000,000 cigars would 
cost $800,000 a day. Throwing out Sundays
and holidays (though a cigar is occasionally
smoked on Sunday evenings), the total cost
for cigars yearly would be $240,000,000—
enough to pay the national debt in nine
years.


SOMEBODY says law is like a seive, you
can see through it, but you must be consid-
erably reduced before you can get through 
it.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

NOTES BY THE WAY.

JOURNEYING TO SODA SPRINGS.

	We have seen a great deal, and yet not
much, (with the exception of Ogden Cañon,)
until yesterday, that is worth mentioning;
what appeared to me as the most striking
object in Ogden Cañon was a very large
rock; this you encounter shortly after en-
tering the cañon, and it extends on either
side of the river for some two or three
blocks in length, commencing very abrupt-
ly and terminating in a like manner. It is
the largest rock I ever saw, and it reaches
from the base of the mountain to its sum-
mit in an unbroken range. The strata is
very plain, running from the top to the
base, at an angle of about forty-seven and a
half degrees; the strata being discernible
by the earth having been washed out and
leaving in many places a space of four or
six inches between the layer. The wonder
often is why they don't fall on top of one
another in one huge mass. The scenes of
yesterday, however, afforded me more
pleasure than anything heretofore on the
trip. The last two days' travel was through
the tops of the Wasatch mountains, and
the oddest country it is, too. All you can
imagine is that Nature started out with the
intention of making it into valleys and
tablelands, but had left the work half done;
and instead of having beautiful valleys and
deep cañons and deeper streams every
once in a while, it is nothing but a succes-
sion of rolling hills, with small cañons
bursting into view on all sides. These are
very beautiful, of course, when seen from
what seemed to have been originally in-
tended for the summit of a valley, but
which become very monotonous, dreary and
tiresome when you are obliged to ride over
them in a wagon, your head all the while
being in imminent danger of a blow from
the wagon bows when passing over some of
the boulders on the road, which, the same,
are "like unto the sands on the seashore."
Yesterday, however, we passed through a
series of cañons, some very small, but all
very beautiful, in which were many beauti-
ful groves of quaking asps, pines and bal-
sams, the pines being particularly beautiful
for their height and straightness, and so
inviting that it almost seemed a sin to pass
by without enjoying their proffered and
friendly shade. On the higher summits of
some of these cañons we could see for a
distance of about fifty miles, over what
seemed a series of endless hills and hollows,
rendered doubly enchanting by the dis-
tance, and as they reached further and fur-
ther the hills gradually lost their distinct-
ness, and their outlines faded into a valley
of the greenest and loveliest verdure—the
pine trees and brush in the long reaches
having diminished to the height of grass.
Towards the close of yesterday's journey,
and at the head of Bear Lake cañon, we
beheld two or three large groves of with-
ered pines, apparently not blasted by light-
ning or destroyed by fire, there being no
black or charred appearance about them; a
color between a green and a white, with an
occasional tint caused by a peculiar shadow
or ray of sunlight, pervaded the whole, and
as all the branches remained as in life, with
the bark removed, it formed a very beauti-
ful and impressive spectacle, the trees and
branches being so thick and standing out in
such bold relief, that one almost fancied it
to be a spectre grove. Some of the hills
around here are very peculiar, many being
entirely bare, with the exception of a stripe
of green trees running down the side as
though laid there by artificial means, these

[Column 2]

being rendered more strange and lovely by
that tint on some of the leaves which al-
ways betokens Autumn. Among other
things which struck me as being rather
strange and somewhat beautiful was a scene
which Joe and I had the good fortune to
behold the day before yesterday. We had
climbed to a considerable height in search
of game, and in stopping to rest, happened
to look towards these low rolling hills,
over which at that moment were passing a
number of small clouds, a sufficient distance
apart to admit of considerable sunshine,
and we sat and watched these shadows fly,
far, far over the hills, as though chasing
the sunshine, and then the sunshine wonld
follow as though in pursuit of the clouds.
This scene would have given one a good
start towards sad meditation, and might
have offered an appropriate comparison to
life, had one but been in a mood to give
way to the feeling which involuntarily
crept upon the soul.

	IN BIG COTTONWOOD CANON.—
The night father arrived we had a very
nice time around the camp-fire singing jok-
ing and talking until nine o'clock, then we
sang "Nearer my God to Thee," then fath-
er had prayers, after that we sung "Praise
God from whom all blessings flow." Every-
thing around us seemed grand and sublime;
the great fire of pine logs, the clear blue
sky above, in which the moon shone
brightly as if to rival our fire, the tall pine
trees towering above us, the mountains sur-
rounding us, father in all his goodness
standing among us, his noble features and
gray beard commanding reverence and re-
spect—it was a picture that so impressed
me, that I shall never forget it. If I were
an artist I should try to paint it, but it
would be impossible to paint the grateful
hearts, and the noble thoughts that filled
our minds at that time.
	We all went up to Lake Mary and such a
lovely sight I never saw; in order to get to
the lake we pass through a large grove, or
forest of tall pines so straight and high
they seem almost to reach to the sky, and
we fancy they say to us poor little frail be-
ings below, "We're nearer to heaven than
you." The lovliest grass and flowers cover
the earth underneath the trees; can you im-
agine a more charming picture?
	M.
Emiline Wells


[For the EXPONENT.
THE MIDNIGHT HOUR.

	With what awe, when a child, did I look
forward to the midnight hour. I had in-
vested it with some solemn thoughts, some
uncanny doings, and often wondered what
midnight might be like. One night when
my youngest sister was sick, I asked my
father and mother to let me stay up until
midnight, just to see how midnight looked!
They consented. I patiently waited; the
expected hour at last arrived—"It is mid-
night," mother said. I went to the win-
dow, drew aside the curtain, and looked
out. I saw nothing unusual—a dark, cheer-
less night alone greeted my vision; but the
simple word midnight, and the unusual
stillness pervading the atmosphere, gave 
me a feeling of awe, and after looking out
a short time in silence, I turned away and
willingly resigned myself to the sweet in-
fluence of sleep. I had soon morning hours,
when gladly I had arisen to behold the star-
gemmed sky, in brilliancy and beauty, shed-
ding soft light around. I had beheld the
witching hour of evening, radiant in the
glory of a full moon, but never before had


I seen a midnight hour. I was satisfied.
Midnight has many times since found me
wakeful, but never agaiu for its own sake.
A sick child watched over with tenderness,
sleeplessness with all its train of thought,
and argument, and imagery, fair summer
moonlight nights irrigating the garden, all
have many times brought to me the mid-
night hour, each different from the first I
had beheld.
	Not long ago I was awakened at mid-
night; the moon was shining in her beauty,
bringing out the lights and shadows of the
trees, the birds were singing, chickens
crowing, dogs barking and people talking,
which made up a midnight hour heretofore
unknown-a Dixie midnight, in striking
contrast to the cheerless, dreary midnight
of my childhood. 
	EMILY B. SPENCER.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Dried corn and especially sweet corn is an ex-
cellent vegetable for winter when there is not
the variety of other seasons.  In many places
corn does not ripen on account of the early frosts
and if there are ears sufficiently ripe to cook, it
would be good economy to preserve them for the
winter. The process is simple and requires no
particular skill only a little care.  Remove the
husks and put the corn in boiling water and
scald it just enough to start the milk, then take
it out, and cut it from the cob, and spread it on
sheets to dry.  For small quantities it may be
dried upon plates.  Some persons prefer cooking
it thoroughly.  We know a lady who dries large
quantities for sale, and in this way some of our
sisters who live in country places might get pocket
money besides making a delicious dish for home
use.  This year there is an unusual scarcity of all
kinds of fruits, and dried corn will no doubt be in
good demand.  The lady referred to also informs
us that she saves all the water in which she boils
the corn, and with a little yeast, and a few hops
she makes a very good article of home-brewed
beer, which answers for the men when working
in the harvest field, and is much better for them
than a stronger drink.


HYGIENIC NOTES.
	Women as Nurses.—A friend writes as follows:
"It seems to me a very improper thing for a wo-
man to be a doctor, but I am quite satisfied to have
her a nurse, and I wish the 'Herald of Health'
would take this view of the case and advocate the
profession of nurse for woman; but advise against
their becoming doctors."
	To this we reply we have no objection to wo-
men being nurses, if they prefer; nor men either.
It is a kind of work which requires many of both
sexes. But there are reasons why a woman well
qualified by nature should desire to be a physician
rather than a nurse, and the reasons are as fol-
lows:
	1. It is more lucrative—medical fees are much
higher than nurses' fees.
	2. The work is easier. There is no labor
harder than to be a professional nurse, subject to
the call of the sick at all hours of the day or
night.
	3. The labor of a professional nurse, contrary
to what is generally known, exposes one to much
more indelicacy than the work of a physician.
Many think a physician must do all sorts of in-
delicate things—not so. Most of the indelicate
work, if it is indelicate, is done by the nurse at
the order of a physician. We have no words
against nurses, but desire to correct the impres-
sion that it is any more improper to be the one
than the other. It is only custom that makes
some people think so.—"Herald of Health."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.
	The General Retrenchment Meeting in the
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, held their
semi-monthly meeting on Saturday, Aug. 18,
which was well attended, and a lively interest
manifested on all the various topics of interest
which animate and inspire the Latter-day
Saints. The President, Mrs. M. I. Horne, be-
ing absent on a visit through Bear Lake Coun-
[---] Counselor B. W. Smith presided over the
meeting. The minutes of the Senior and Ju-
nior Associations were read, and speeches were
made on the principles of the Gospel, the home
industries, the gleaning and saving of grain,
by Counselors B. W. Smith and E. Howard,
and by Mrs. W. East and several other ladies
in the congregation. Elder Zebedee Coltrin,
Jun., who had recently returned from a mission
to the States, gave a sketch of his travels and
labors, and alluded to the ridicule and ill-treat-
ment to which the elders were subjected when
out proclaiming the truths of heaven.

	ROUND VALLEY, MORGAN CO.,
		Aug. 22d, 1877.EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We still continue to hold our meetings once
in two weeks, and good feelings are manifested
among the sisters. We read the EXPONENT,
and desire to carry out the counsel and in-
structions that are given to us from time to
time. We intend to lay up all the grain we
can this fall, and with the help of our Heaven-
ly Father we will do all we can for the salva-
tion of ourselves and families, by taking care
of our grain against a time of need.
	Praying for the success of your very valuable
paper we remain,
	Your sisters in the Gospel of peace,
		MARTHA TONKS, President,
		FANNIE OLPIN, Sec'y pro tem.


SPELLING REFORM.

	At the session of the American Philolog-
ical association in Baltimore recently, pro-
fessor F. A. Marsh of Lafayette college,
Pennyslavania, chairman of the committee
on reform in English spelling, presented a
report, which says:
	The attempt to prepare an English al-
phabet according to the principles which
an ideal alphabet would seek to adopt for
its characters—forms which would suggest
the sounds signified - brings out the follow-
ing facts:
	There are eighteen Roman letters which
commonly represent in English nearly the
same elementary sounds which they repre-
sented in Latin. It seems best to follow
the Latin and other languages written in
Roman letters in the use of a single sign
for a short vowel, and its long form distin-
guishing them when great exactness is re-
quired by a diacritical mark. The alpha-
bet would then have thirty-two letters. It
seems necessary, therefore, that there
should be a transition period, and for this
the following suggestions are made:
	First- Transition characters may be used
resembling if possible two letters—for "A"
(fate), "E" (mete), "I" (fine). "U" (pure),
"S" (as), "G" (gin) and "C" (cent).
	Second - The diagraphs now representing
single consonants may be named and other-
wise treated as single letters.
	Third - New letters can be introduced by
using them only with the old which they
resemble in form.
	Fourth - Long words bear changes best,
and vowels are more easily changed than
consonants, which project more above and


below the line; dropping the silent "e" is
the easiest change.
	The committee was continued, with in-
structions to communicate, with associations
of this character in England.


﻿WOMEN AND WAR.
	Mr. Geo. W. Smalley, the London corre-
spondent of the New York "Tribune," is a 
man of uncommon ability, humanity and
independence. His conscience has alwaysmade him a courageous reformer, while his
temperament has in it much that allies him
with conservatives. His opinions on Wo-
man Suffrage are therefore entitled to much
consideration, and we quote from the Salem
(Mass.) "Observer" one of his remarks,
with the "Observer's" answer:—
	WOMEN AND WAR.—"No partisan of fe-
male voting has ever answered the objec-
tion that women's votes might bring on a
war that men would have to wage." So
writes Mr. G. W. Smalley from London in a
letter describing the late discussion of Suf-
frage in the English Parliament. Mr.
Smalley usually writes in a very clear and
well-considered manner, but in this case
expresses himself with a degree of confi-
dence by no means warranted upon exami-
nation of his premises. In the first place
there is no reason for the violent supposi-
tion that all women would ever vote to-
gether for war against the interests of all
men; and therefore it is illogical to adduce
such an argument, if argument it may be
called. There is nothing in the history of
woman's conduct in any age or country,
and nothing in the analysis of female char-
acter, to lead one to believe that such an
event as Mr. SMallet supposes could ever
occur. Indeed it is almost impossible to 
conceive of a war declared by the votes of
women under any circumstances whatever.
All that we know of the disposition and
sentiments of women lead to the conclusion
that women's influence would always be
against war, if they were called to political
responsibiiiiies. It may also be assumed as
an indisputable truth that the enfranchise-
ment of women would be a step in the di-
rection of universal and everlasting peace.
"Salem Observer."


PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on 
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR 
THREE YEARS.
Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged.  Send to 
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
WOOLEN GOODS,
SUCH AS 
TWEEDS, JEANS,
DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
LADIES JACKETS,
STOCKINGS, YARNS,
SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
LATEST STYLES OF 
FANCY WORSTED TIES,
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of Jamaica Ginger
HOME-MADE  WOOLEN BATTING,
NEW ZEALAND FLAX SEED.
DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
AGENT FOR 
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City

F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
Staple and Fancy
DRY GOOD'S,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
Pipes, Cutlery, Etc.,
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
the Old Fashioned House.

THE FINE ARTS
The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
 We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our 
prices are put at living rates.
 We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and 
are determined to excel in all we do.
 A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock . Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
Send your orders to            C. R. SAVAGE,
                                       Salt Lake City, Utah

Mrs. C. E. DYE
 Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of 
Millinery of any house in town.
 Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium.  Do not forget
                         17, East Temple street.
                     TEMPLE OF FASHION,
Ladies attending conference will do well to give her a 
call.

Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

TEASDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF 
LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

