Vol. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JULY 15, 1877.		NO. 4.


REVERIES OF SUMMER.

Oh bright and glowing summer, thy beauty and thy
	bloom
Bring memories of by-gone days, all laden with perfume
Of things most choice and sweet—and fragrant wild-wood
	flowers,
Which erst I fondly gathered in thy delightful hours.
The forest paths I wander'd in, beside the rippling
	stream,
Methinks I tread again in youth's midsummer dream;
And all around me voices are whisp'ring in the trees,
And thrill me with the chorus they waft upon the
	breeze:
And the dear familiar scenes of happy "long ago"
Drift back again and mingle with fancy's dreamy show,
And the shadows of the days that now are mine no
	more
Fall thickly all around me and my heart is gushing o'er
With olden time remembrances of those bright summer
	hours
When pleasure held her riot 'mid nature's sunny bow'rs.
And musing on the past and pondering o'er and o'er
I catch a fleeting glimpse of the lov'd ones gone before;
They grace my summer reveries with sweetness most
	complete
As indistinct they linger where we were wont to meet.
The magic of their voices can never be forgot,
For still their echoes vibrate round the familiar spot.
The golden wealth of nature that comes with summer
	days
Is like life's brilliant summer that falls 'mid pleasant
	ways,
As summer's sun doth ripen the fruit and golden grain
And spread its treasures richly o'er garden, valley, plain,
So should our life's full summer at its meridian height,
Ripen a golden harvest, which may the soul delight—
Filling her garners richly with most abundant store
Of knowledge, love and wisdom and good deeds teeming
	o'er.
	EMILE.
S. L. City, July 13, 1877.	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]
		A FEW REFLECTIONS.

			[CONTINUED.]

	Now gentlemen and ladies we will tell
you of the root of this polygamic or patri-
archal tree. In Isaiah xi chapt. 10th verse,
"And in that day there shall be a root of
Jesse, which shall stand as an ensign for the
people; to it shall the Gentiles seek; and
his rest shall be glorious." And in Ro-
man's xv chapt. 12th verse the Apostle con-
firms what Esaias had said; and in Revela-
tions v chapt. 5th verse, "And one of the
elders said unto me weep not, behold the
Lion of the tribe of Juda, the root of Da-
vid hath prevailed to open the book, and to
loose the seven seals thereof." I am Alpha
and Omega the beginning and the end, the
first and the last. And again in the 16th
verse, he says "I am the root and the off-
spring of David, the bright and morning
star." It would be well for those who are
so anxious to destroy this remarkable tree,
which has survived so many ages and
sprung up again afresh when all vestige of
it seemed obliterated, to notice the revela-
tions of God to St. John in the 18th and
19th verses of the last chapter as follows,
"If any man shall add unto these things
God shall add unto him the plagues that
are written in this book; and if any man
shall take away from the words of the book
of this prophecy, God shall take away his
part out of the book of life, and out of the
holy city etc.
	"Now if Christ is the root of David, then
David in the beginning was the offspring
of God, and in the second place Jesus was

[Column 2]
the offspring of David, which makes their
relationship very complicated; and if he is
the root of David he must of necessity be
the root of all the polygamic patriarchs
from Adam down to David, which is a pos-
itive demonstration that Jesus Christ is the
root of this polygamical, patriarchal tree.
This being the case I see no consistent
course left for you to pursue, who have set
yourselves to destroy it, except to suspend
all further proceedings until Jesus our Re-
deemer makes His second appearance. He
has declared through the mouths of all His
holy prophets, and also by His own mouth,
when upon the earth, that in the last days
He would come in power and great glory,
with all His heavenly hosts to reign on
earth a thousand years. And permit me
to tell you gentlemen and ladies that when
that day comes, you will behold this glor-
ious, this remarkable, this everlasting po-
lygamic tree in its full and complete perfec-
tion, root and branches united. Then will
be the fitting time for you to try to arrest
its growth and utterly destroy it.
	Let me warn you and advise you to look
well to your ways, for the Lord has said His
saints should overcome, and that He would
put all their enemies under His feet.
	And now having given you a brief sketch
of this patriarchal tree, which is so offen-
sive and obnoxious to you who have such
refined tastes that you prefer something ten-
der and fragile, something unable to sup-
port its own weight, to this strong and
grand old tree, that has withstood the ra-
ging storms of centuries upon centuries and
could not be obliterated; let me deliver
unto you my testimony, and declare unto
you that I know of a truth that this princi-
ple of patriarchal marriage emanated from
heaven; and that we as a people practice it
because it is a command direct from God
through Joseph Smith the prophet, who
died a martyr to the truth, as did many of
the former prophets. And we do firmly
believe and know by the spirit bearing wit-
ness that to disobey this command we must
incur the displeasure of an offended God,
and cut ourselves short of an eternal salva-
tion in the celestial kingdom of God.
	As American citizens entitled to all the
privileges of citizenship we claim the right
to worship God according to the dictates of
our own consciences, and according to the
laws of the Constitution.
	If those holding the reins of govern-
ment will turn a deaf ear to our petitions
and dare defraud us of the rights to which
we are entitled under the framing of the
constitution, then it only remains for us to
take an appeal to the high courts of heaven
where God is the Judge of all. In Him
we implicitly trust, knowing that eventu-
ally His cause will triumph.
				NANCY ARETE CLARK.
	Farmington, Davis Co., Utah,
						Jan. 21st. 1877.


"Mamma," said an inquiring urchin,
"the first man was Adam, wasn't it?" "Yes,
my dear." "Well, then, I see how we get
the word madam; for if the first man was
Adam, of course the first woman was Mad-
am."


NOTES AND NEWS.

	ROCHESTER, N. Y., June 20, five young
ladies were graduated at the Wells College,
Aurora, Commencement.
	THE FRENCH journals report that Patti is
to sing in America this winter at $2,000,
gold, per night, and that Nicolini, who, of
course, goes with her, will have $1,000
nightly.
	Mrs. Z. R. Plumb has published a book
account of the six years in New York which
she devoted to teaching light gymnastics.
It is autobiographic, historic, unique and
interesting. Mrs. Plumb is now at Holley,
New York, still engaged in her favorite
work.
	MISS HELEN Mar, of Boston, has invent-
ed a Commode Dressing Case—an ingenious
arrangement to economize space in small
rooms. In this contrivance such appurten-
ances as a bureau, wash-stand, etc., with all
conveniences, are brought together in one
piece of furniture. This invention having
been patented, is now in the market, and
reflects great credit upon the inventor.—
Ex.
	ONE OF THE TWELVE.—Five years ago,
twelve women, in Rochester, New York,
called public attention to the disfranchised
condition of women by an attempt to assert
their own right to vote. One of these,
Mrs. Hannah Mosher, who was a sister of
Susan B. Anthony, has lately died after
much suffering in Leavenworth, Kansas.
Mrs. Mosher was an earnest, resolute wo-
man, who had the courage to maintain her
opinions.—Ex.
	IN LONDON, June 18, the case of Charles
Bradlaugh and Mrs. Annie Besant, the free-
thought advocate, who were arrested some
time since on a charge of printing and pub-
lishing a pamphlet alleged to be of an im-
moral character, which was adjourned to
allow the defendants time to prepare their
defense, was begun before Lord Chief-Jus-
tice Cockburn and a special jury. The so-
licitor General spoke, condemning the book
as indecent. Mrs. Besant replied, defend-
ing the book and denying that it was ob-
scene. The trial was unfinished at the ad-
journment of the court. Since the begin-
ning of the prosecution the circulation of
the book has increased from 700 copies
yearly to 100,000 copies.
	TIDAL WAVE AND EARTHQUAKE.—
Elder Richard G. Lambert writes from the
Sandwich Islands, June 13—
	"We had quite a tidal disturbance here
on the 10th of last month, resulting in the
destruction of much property and loss of
life. The sea receded and came up again
about every ten minutes, going out past
low water mark and coming up past high
water mark. In some places the tidal wave
went up over the land, sweeping all before
it. Part of the town of Halo was swept
away, or rather carried inland, and quite a
number were drowned. On the 31 of May
there was quite a severe shock of earth-
quake on the Island of Hawaii. It was
sufficiently powerful to throw down all the
stone walls and houses.—Ex."


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Saturday, July 7th, was one of unusual in-
terest. Counselor B. W. Smith presided
in the president's absence, and after the
usual exercises and reading of minutes
from junior societies, addressed the assem-
bly in an able and efficient manner upon
the duties of saints and the future destiny
of the young. Counselor Z. D. Young and
S. M. Kimball followed her and spoke upon
silk-culture and home institutions, the op-
portunities for education and for self-educa-
tion; referred to the Medical Class now
about to resume their meetings for instruc-
tion, and many other important items.
Mrs. E. Pixton from Leeds, spoke of her
having been absent one year from the meet-
ings, of the privileges and blessings en-
joyed by the sisters here, of diamonds in
the rough and diamonds polished etc.
Mrs. E. S. Barney, Mrs. R. Jones, Mrs. M.
E. A. Watmough, Mrs. Hannah T. King,
Mrs. W. East each addressed the meeting
in a pleasant and happy manner upon the
subjects which concern the temporal and
spiritual welfare of the saints. These meet-
ings strengthen encourage and edify the
sisters in the spirit of the Gospel, and a
very great improvement is apparent in
those who are stepping out in the develop-
ment of the talents in their possession.
The home industries are increasing and im-
proving and there is a spirit manifested
by the sisters who attend these meetings to
promote all home industries.

	ROCKPORT, SUMMIT Co, June 27, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our yearly meeting June 3, com-
mencing with the usual exercises of sing-
ing and prayer, after which our report was
read showing our progress to be as good as
could be expected, as we are but few. We
have now on hand in grain, cash and sun-
dries, property amounting to sixty dollars.
We have made a start in the Grain Move-
ment, and intend by the blessing of our
Heavenly Father to still keep adding to it,
if the frost does not take our grain. We
feel and know that the counsel of our be-
loved President Brigham Young is good.
We received a visit last fall from Mrs. E.
Howard and E. S. Barney, held a meeting
and received much valuable instruction,
enjoying the spirit of the Lord while as-
sembled together, and were very much
pleased to have them meet with us. We
hold our meetings monthly, and express
our feelings and the gratitude of our hearts
for the many blessings we as a people re-
ceive from time to time. We also have
sewing meetings alternately.
	May the Lord bless all the Relief Socie-
ties, and prosper you in your labors upon
the valuable paper which we consider a
blessing to the saints, is the wish of us all.
				ANN BRYANT, President.
			SARAH STAKER, Secretary.

		TOKERVILLE, June 24th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT;
	We esteem it a great privilege to con-
tribute to your valuable paper, which in
perusing we find contains very encourag-
ing accounts of the different Relief Socie-
ties, and feel honored to have the opportu-
nity to represent our society through your
columns. We have donated forty-one yards

[Column 2]
of carpet and some articles of men's wear
to the St. George Temple, and have carpets,
quilts and a variety of other things in the
treasury. We desire to carry out the coun.
sel of our beloved President Brigham
Young in regard to storing grain, and have
purchased a small amount for a commence-
ment, and live in hopes of doing more as
opportunity affords, although we labor un-
der great disadvantages in not raising grain
in this vicinity. We have not commenced
silk raising yet, but intend doing so at an
early day. The members of our Society
are energetic and alive to their duties.
	We have a Young Ladies' Retrenchment
Association organized, with Mrs. Mary L.
Ransom, president; Misses Elizabeth Klien-
man, Sabra Higbee, Elvira Hill, Mary R.
Dodge, Mrs. Sarah A. Spilsbury, and Lydia
Jackson, Counselors; Misses Mary E. Klein-
man, and Permelia Dodge Secretaries; Miss
Jane Stapley, Treasurer; they have thirty-
one names enrolled as members and they
manifest a willing spirit to do their duty in
the interest of the society.
	Every praying for the success of your val-
uable paper, we remain
		Yours Respectfully,
			S. A. SPILSBURY, Secretary;
			R. J. SPILLSBURY, Assistant.

	ESCALANTE, IRON Co., June 20, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I will proceed to tell you about this beau-
tiful little valley; it is situated fifty miles
east of Panguitch, and has a mild climate;
we have no mail running here yet, but re-
ceive our mail matter from persons travel-
ing to and from Panguitch. Some of the
wheat has been headed out here for two
weeks; wild flowers of every color and var-
iety grow in abundance, giving the valley a
very beautiful appearance. There are about
fifty families in the settlement. On March
13th, 1877, our Bishop, Andrew Schow.
and several of the brethren organized a
Relief Society and a Retrenchment Asso-
ciation; officers of Relief Society as follows:
Mrs. Mary Ann P. Schow, President; Mrs.
Susannah Heaps, Mrs. Lydia C. Adams,
Counselors; Mrs. Jane S. Coleman and Miss
Mary Coleman, Secretaries; Mrs. Vesta Lu-
cretia Twitchell, Treasurer. We have teach-
ers and president of teachers appointed;
they visit the sisters once a month. We
hold semi-monthly meetings alternately to
speak and work. Our president is an ener-
getic woman and means to take hold and
go into the silk-industry, and have mul-
berry trees set out in the Relief Society
lot. We desire to be co-workers with the
rest of our sisters in assisting to build up
and develop Zion. Money is scarce here,
it is fifty miles to the nearest market.
	The Report of the Escalente Retrench-
ment Association organized March 13, 1877,
is as follows: Mrs. Catherine Dewel, Presi-
dent; Misses Sarah May Coleman, Lydia C.
Adams, Mrs. Mary E. Alvey, Misses Mary
Alice Barker, and Mary Coleman, Counsel-
ors; Mrs. Mary Ann P. Schow, Superin-
tendent; Misses Mary Alice Barker and
Harriet Larrmie, Secretaries; Mrs. Eleanor
Barker, Treasurer.
	JANE S. COLEMAN, Secretary of
					Relief Society.

	PARIS, BEAR LAKE Co., June 29, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Report of the ninth annual meeting of
the Relief Society of this place, held May
26th, 1877.

[Column 3]
	An invitation was extended to the pres-
idents and officers of the Relief Societies
and Retrenchment Associations of St.
Charles and Bloomington; also the members
of the Paris Retrenchment Association.
We were favored with the company of
President C. C. Rich, Bishops Budge, Horne
and several other brethren. Appropriate
speeches were delivered by the President
of the Paris Relief Society, Mrs. Julia
Lindsay, and her Counselors, Mrs. Elizabeth
Collings and Maria Rich, also by President
C. C. Rich, Bishops Budge, Horne and oth-
ers. A report of the condition of the so-
ciety for the past five years was reach which
spoke well for the liberality of the mem-
bers; all were well satisfied with the pro-
gress which had been made. Many inter-
esting remarks were made on very import-
ant subjects.
	The members of the Paris Retrenchment
Association presented President Julia Lind-
sey with a beautiful picture, as a token of
their affection and regard for her. She re
sponded in a pleasant little speech, asking
God to bless us all, and enable her to live
in such a manner as to retain the good will
of the sisters.
	As a society we move slowly along, alle-
viating the wants of the poor, and giving
words of comfort to those whose hearts are
weighed down with woe and sorrow, en-
couraging them to look up to the Giver of
life, for His loving hand is over us contin-
ually, even in chastening us. and if we im-
part comfort to others God will impart a
portion of it to our own hearts.
	The day's proceedings were followed by
a ball in the evening, the hall being beau-
tifully decorated for the occasion. All
passed off pleasantly, joy and gladness
beamed from every countenance.
	The health of the people in this settle-
ment is good. As yet the crops look well,
but grasshoppers are very numerous. En-
ergetic measures are being, adopted to de-
stroy them and thus save the crops. I
would further state that under the superin-
tendence of our worthy Bishop William
Budge, in the mercantile, and other depart-
ments of co-operation, we continue to grow
in wealth and strength. The EXPONENT
is read, with interest in our meetings.
	Wishing the paper success, and all institu-
tions of improvement, I remain,
		Yours Respectfully,
				ALICE M. RICH,
						Secretary.


FORMATION OF MINERALS.--Hawley has
made further examination of the liquids
contained in mineral cavities. He finds
that the liquid carbon dioxide present varies
considerably—from 27 27° to 33.7° C.—in
its critical point in different mineral speci-
mens, often varying in different cavities in
the same mineral specimen. The presence
of this substance in sapphire and topaz
leads him to the supposition that these
minerals may have been formed by the ac-
tion of aluminum fluoride or chloride upon
calcium carbonate at high pressures, produ-
cing alumina and carbon dioxide. Where
water is also present in the cavity, it would
seem that the reaction had taken place in
presence of moisture. As to the diamond,
the author thinks that this mineral is the
result of the action of reducing agents up-
on very highly compressed carbon dioxide
at temperatures above its critical point—a
condition of things which suggests a new
direction for speculation and experiment.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


JOY.

Oh joyful visitation
	Come Jesus' voice obey, 
To gain His approbation
   We'll work and watch and pray. 

The faithful saints are rearing
   Their Temple to the Lord, 
The quick and dead 'tis cheering
   Through truth to earth restored. 

In every nation laud it;
	The Savior soon will come,
And then the welcome plaudit
   Will be to saints "well done,"

Christ comes, the Lord's Annointed
	To comfort those who weep,
Fore-ordained and appointed;
	A Shepherd for the sheep. 

Then glory! Hallelujah!
	To Jesus we will sing;
He comes to reign in glory, 
   The Saints Eternal King. 

			ELLEN WALLACE. 
S.L. City, March 7, 1877.


THE DRAM-DRINKER'S BRIDE.

Lay the sod over me, cover me deep;
In silence leave me to the long, last sleep.
I am so weary with curses and blows,
That I long for rest where the soft grass grows.

This heart so filled with anguish and gloom, 
Can find no repose but the silent tomb;
The clods of the earth are easier borne
Than scathing reproach, cold, hunger and scorn. 

That bright summer morn, when with girlish pride,
I trusting became a dram-drinker’s bride,
Little I dreamed that a sparkling cup
Could drown warmest love, or swallow it up.

Dear Savior receive and hold to thy breast,
This trembling soul so weary, oppressed;
In that blessed land where sin cannot come, 
There may I find peace, love, friends and home, 


No marble will tell, how suffered and died,
Of want and neglect-the dram-drinkers bride,
But each sigh, each tear each prayer and each groan
Is heard in heaven and will yet be known.

								CORA	S.
Shambip, May 7, 1877.


THE ELECTIVE FRANCHISE IN
			UTAH.
SUGGESTED BY MRS. LIVERMORE’S RE-
	MARKS AT THE NEW YORK CONVEN-
	TION.

 I don’t doubt Mrs. Livermore is an ex-
cellent woman, but she does not understand
the women of Utah. She says that in Utah
women vote.  To be sure we do; every sen-
sible and just man knows that taxation
without representation is tyranny and op-
pression. Don't women have to pay taxes
if they have any property? Ask the tax
collector, you know what his answer would
be. Mrs. Livermore says we are ticketed.
This is indeed news. She says both men and
women receive a number. Do we?
Mrs. Livermore seems to know more about
those tickets than we do. I have never
seen one of them, although I have voted
ever since the women were given the right
of Franchise in this Territory. Where
shall I look fot those tickets, on the backs,
on the hats or where? And echo answers
where! When I have voted it has been be
-cause it was my honest conviction it was
for the best man. Although we are only
women we will not be driven like a flock of
sheep at the will of the driver. When
next I vote I shall be looking for my num-
ber. Every man in the states votes ac-
cording to his honest convictions, don't he?
Especially the working men and the de-
pendents on another man's smiles or
frowns? They are not ticketed, Oh, no!


They are all free !! Yes free to go without
their daily bread if they don't vote as their
employers wish. In Utah gentlemen (?)
don't go about buying up the votes of the
lowest rabble, and the half-idiotic inebre-
ate, the pay "free drinks" Is this the
style in Utah? No it is not. Men or wo-
men vote just as they please. Any decent
person passing the places where the polls
are held in the states are shocked and dis-
gusted with the sights and sounds,and will
hurry away as fast as possible.
	Mrs. Livermore says, "the women don't
want to change." What can she mean? Is
it our husbands? If so, we beg to inform
her we are not "Free Lovers," but believe
most emphatically in chastity. She asserts
we women "do just as the men want us to."
Does she mean to imply we are not capable
of doing our own thinking? She also says
we obey our religious convictions" as
though she pitied us. Is it not right that
we should? Is it any sign of imbecility?
The Roman Catholic nun follows her re-
ligious convictions when she takes the vail,
yet she is not considered an idiot. I have
lived in Utah eighteen years and never
known any woman to die of a broken
heart. I will tell you what I have seen;
noble, brave, strong-hearted women in po-
lygamy living the lives of saints in deed,
and dying the death of the righteous, leav-
ing the world better for having lived in it.
	Well although so much has been written
and said about the Women of Utah, we are
still a "sealed book" to the world.
	MARY.
Grantsville, July 2, 1876.


[Column 1]

PRECIOUS AND PRICELESS IS
TRUTH.

	How beautiful is truth! In this world
where there is so much falsehood and deceit,
how beautiful is the true thought, word and
deed; like the sun smiling out amid an
angry storm, or the bright stars shining
through the heavy clouds; like friend clasp-
ing the hand of friend, like heaven upon
the earth. Yet truth in this day and age
of the world is rather unpopular: the hu-
man mind is prone to seek popularity; hence
to live pure lives we must choose a higher
standard and maintain truth and indepen-
dence of character, and learn and compre-
hend the truth for ourselves and not be
afraid to speak in its defence. Be true to
each other. One great fault with our nation-
al affairs is that on every side difficulties
arise and one party cries out against the
dishonest proceedings of the other; yet
both know they are equally in the fault.
These things prove to those whose eyes are
open to the "signs of the times," indica-
tions of political revolution. On every
hand we meet deception, honesty appar-
ently is at discount; to listen to what is
termed business men, one would draw the
conclusion that money had become the ru-
ling power, the determined value of every
thing on earth.
	We should be advocates for truth and in-
telligence. Be honest, not because "honesty
is the best policy," but because it is a duty
we owe to God and man. The heart that
can be gratified by dishonest gain, the am-
bition that can be satisfied by dishonest
means, the mind that can be devoted to
dishonest purposes, must be of the worst
order. But every word has its weight.
"Truth crushed to the earth will rise again"
though often discouraged.
	Unity is the greatest principle of govern-
ment; would it not promote the peace and
welfare of all to carry out every principle

[Column 2]

of right, and discourage that which is
wrong? There would be but little com-
plaining, and the people would have entire
confidence in each other. Ther would be
no need of locking doors and making every
thing secure from theft, for there would be
no thieving, no one to wrong his neighbor.
True greatnes is always humble and gen-
tle, for it knows its power and realizes its
dignity. In good government there must
be decision of character; the world is waht
we make it; do we fully realize this all im-
portant fact? Have we ever paused long
enough to think seriously about it? We
sometimes murmur at fate, because we are
not as talented or as wealthy as some one
else; forgetting that God in His infinite
mercy has created us as we are for some
wise purpose. Wealth is transitory and lia-
ble to take wings and fly away; a beautiful
face is also transitory. There is a higher,
nobler beauty that emanates from a meek
spirit that will alst as long as life itself,
only becoming more refined in purity as
we grow older.
	Our success in life depends to a great ex-
tent on the talents we possess, but surely
we should not blame Dame Nature or ac-
cuse her of partiality, in not endowing us
with higher talents, while those we already
possess lie dormant, growing rusty from
neglect. Those who would attain to real
greatness, should keep themselves true to
their consciences and their Creator. Shun
the society of the impure, remember that
even the best characters can be injured by
associating with those who are corrupt.
There is nothing which binds heart to
heart so closely as truth.	Truth is eternal.
	M. J. C.
East Bountiful, June, 1877.


SCIENTIFIC NOTES.

	HOW FISH BREATHE.—The breathing of
fishes takes place by means of their gills.
The water which is impregnated with at-
mospheric air, is taken in by the mouth and
forced out again by the apertures on each
side of the neck. It is thus made to pass
between the gills, which form a comb like
set of vascular fringes, supported by a sys-
tem of bones termed bronchial arches, and
during this passage the air is absorbed by
the blood of the fish. Fish have little blood,
and therefore require little oxygen, the ox-
idized blood being chiefly confined to a few
internal organs, as the heart, liver, kidneys,
lungs and gills. For this reason the flesh
of most fish is white and apparently blood-
less.
	PHOTO-TRANSPARENCIES ON GLASS.—The
toning of photo-transparencies on glass is
now asserted to be scarcely necessary, if the
transparency has been reinforced with acid
silver, and is only required to be viewed by
transmitted light. But silver as well as al-
kali intensified films have generally a very
disagreeable color by reflected light, and
many amateurs object to this. The use of
a weak solution of chloride of gold obviates
this difficulty, but, unfortunately, the light
thus given is too cold to suit many tastes.
Artists of high repute, now regard chlo-
ride of copper as the best toning agent, fol-
lowed by an application of alkali pyro—any
tone by transmitted light being attainable,
while the color of the deposit by reflected
light is either black or a deep warm brown;
but on no account is resort to be had to any
of the formerly recommended methods of
toning by mercury—for colors, though beau-
tiful in appearance, are evanescent, and
sooner or later the picture becomes, in fact,
one shapeless blotch.


28	WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

	LULA GREENE RICHARDS,
	EMMELINE B. WELL.		Editors.
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah. 

SALT LAKE CITY. JULY 15, 1877.


[Column 1]
			WORK FOR WOMEN.

	Work to be done! Yes! Work for Women!
Work that requires energy, activity, resolution
and courage. Work that will not admit of de-
lay. Work in the present. Work in the fu-
ture. Practical work that will necessitate
method in its execution. Work for which wo-
men must be trained, educated and cultivated
physically, mentally, morally and spiritually.
Work that will require united combination
and concentration of thought, influence and
effort. The serious persecutions inflicted upon
this people and which women have borne a
proportionate share of, the rigorous and bitter
experience through which Mormon women
have passed, has fitted them as nothing
else ever could, for the life-work, most
peculiar in its nature that is resting upon them
in assisting to further the plans and designs of
the Almighty in the great labor of the latter
days, which is to bring about the regeneration
of mankind and the final redemption of the
dead.
	There are those who find it hard to endure
the ridicule and censure heaped upon them
by the world, in pursuing the path of self-sac-
rifice and denial, and feel that their heroism
must draw forth sympathy if not admiration;
but would that give the impetus that criticism
and censure calls out? And the question arises
in the mind, would the sympathy of the world
help the Saints in the path they are walking?
Would it help women? We do not believe it
would. Perhaps they would begin to feel that
really their lot was hard, and thereby lower the
standard of excellence, and succumb to the
sympathizing hand held out in seeming char-
ity. This would weaken nobility of purpose
and real heroism of character. Mormon wo-
men do not need sympathy from the world,
and they should not accept it, much less seek
for it.
	If at any time laws are rigorously enforced
against this people, or measures carried that
are offensive to the sense of justice and honor,
or would bring them into bondage, and genuine
help or assistance is given to hinder persecu-
tion, then it is only a duty to be truly grateful
for such real help; or if any person has suffici-
ent courage or honesty of character to lift their
voice or pen to do good to this people, or speak
in their defense, none should be ungrateful in
acknowledging such legitimate acts of kind-
ness. Otherwise it is noble to stand aloof from
any offers of sympathy held out, for they
simply degrade those who accept them. What
is all the honor and adulation of the world good
for, let alone their miserable pity for the "poor
down-trodden women of Utah?" They have
no real power to lift the fallen, if they have
why not reach out the hand of true charity

[Column 2]
nd seek to save those of their own faith, of
their own class (of their own blood perchance]
whom their social laws and Christian pride
and cruelty drive to desperation and plunges
into the depths of misery?
	Depend upon it there is no time to waste in
receiving sympathy were it ever so genuine;
they young Ldies of Utah are far above any
sympathy the world has to give, and there is
work for them to do, a great and glorious work,
and they should be preparing themselves for
it and be so constantly occupied and so
completely absorbed in its contemplation, as to
have no room for such sympathy as the world
would offer them. A sympathy that would
bring them into such bondage as the world are
in, and from which they see no clear avenue to
escape—the bondage of sin and crime. But
through obedience to a higher law revealed to
the saints in this day and age, the social con-
dition of men and women may be improved,
and the Lord desires to accomplish it, other-
wise there could not be a people prepared to
meet Him at His coming.


[Column 1]
			HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE MEDICAL Class: A fair attendance,met
as per appointment on Wednesday, July 11,
and were addressed by Mrs. Zina D. Young and
Mrs. C. M. Barlow. It is hoped a larger num-
ber will come forward and interest themselves
in the important study of obstetrics.
	WE HAVE had a pleasant call from Elder
Henry Grow and Elder A. M. Musser, returned
missionaries. These brethren have been trav-
eling in Penn. Elder Grow's relatives were
very hospitable and courteous to himself and
other Elders whom he introduced to them.
They held some very interesting meetings and
were introduced to many influential and wor-
thy people with whom they discussed Mormon-
ism and the political and social interests of
Utah. Some other items of their travels will
be given in our next number.
	PREPARATIONS FOR the coming Jubilee on
the 24th of July. It will no doubt be interest-
ing to the readers of the EXPONENT to have an
idea of a few of the leading items furnished,
which have been kindly supplied by Br. Chas.
F. Williams, Chairman of the Decoration
Committee. There will be 18,000 feet of fes-
toons, each one weighing over 100 lbs, and
measuring 40 feet; the whole, 300 in number,
will weigh 37,000 lbs. One million flowers
(artificial) made under the superintendence of
Mrs. Annie Cross and her lady assistants. The
flowers are held together by 13 1/2 miles of fine
wire. The festoons are arranged with pine
and cedar brush.
	The ladies of the Floral Committee will be
pleased to receive all the assistance available
from the various wards, as there is much to be
done yet, and but little time to do it in.
							W. WILLIS.
	THE DESERET Silk Association met pursu-
ant to adjournment at the Fireman's Hall,
Salt Lake City, July 6th, 1877; Mrs. Zina D.
Young presiding.
	Mrs. Young gave a brief report of her trav-
els in the south. She had talked considerably
on silk raising, and found that a good spirit
prevailed and a lively interest was manifested
in this branch of home industry. Many were
planting out trees and cuttings. She had sent
considerable mulberry seed to different parts
of the Territory. She advised those raising
worms this year to save a little more seed
than they would need themselves, as we had
run short this year, and the prospects were

[Column 2]
that we would require more another year, and
for those who have good healthy trees to save
the mulberry seed. It was a mission placed
upon the sisters at the late Conference at St.
George, and she felt like doing her part, and
advised those present to use their influence in
the same direction.
	Mr. Hulbert said our silk was the best in the
best in the world;he was a silk weaver,and had
woven silk from all parts of the world where
silk was raised. He had sent a sample of our
silk to Patterson, N. J., and received an ans-
wer that the parties would purchase all the
silk we could raise.
	The meeting was further addressed by Mrs.
Barney, and several others, after which a mo-
tion was made and carried that the Association
send a copy of our pamphlet to every Presi-
dent of a Relief Society in the Territory with
a request that they make good use of the same,
this being done for the sole purpose to further
the work along.
	Meeting adjourned until the first Friday in
August, at 3 p. m.
						R. SIMPSON, Sec'y.


OBITUARIES.

	RESUOLUTIONS OF sorrow offered by the Re-
lief Society of Huntsville Weber Co, to the
family of the deceased Mary Jane Hammond,
President of the Huntsville Relief Society and
wife of Bishop F. A. Hammond, who died
June 6th, 1877:
	Whereas, the hand of Divine Providence has
removed our beloved sister and president from
the scenes of her temporal labors, and the So-
ciety who acted under her counsel and profited
by her example are desirous of testifying their
respect for her memory and expressing their
earnest and affectionate sympathy with the
family deprived by this dispensation, of its be-
loved wife and mother,
	Resolved, That it is but a just tribute to the
memory of the departed to say that in regret-
ting her removal from our midst, we mourn
for one who was in every way worthy of our
respect and regard.
	Resolved, That we sincerely condole with
the family of the deceased on the dispensation
with which it has pleased Divine Providence
to afflict them, and commend them for con-
sideration to Him who orders all things for the
best, and whose hand dealings are meant in
mercy.
	Resolved that the heartfelt testimonial of
our sympathy and sorrow be forwarded to the
family of our departed sister by the secretary
of this meeting.
				MARY HALL, Secretary.
	ANN KEMPTON Brown, wife of Dr. J. L.
Dunyon departed this life Friday, June 22nd,
1877, at the Point of Mountain South, near
Draper. Deceased was the daughter of Abia
W. Brown and Abby Cadwallader of
Penn. Born April 13, 1831 in Damascus Col-
ombiana Co. Ohio. Baptized July 17, 1851 in
Council Bluffs or Kanesville, Pottowatamie
Co., Iowa. She and her aged mother gathered
with the saints in these valleys in 1853. De-
ceased was raised a quaker to which principle
she was ardently attached, but in early life be-
coming satisfied of the truth of the Great Lat-
ter-day work, she embraced it with all the in-
tensity of her generous nature with the de-
termination to live the life of a saint, and to
help to build up the cause of the Latter-day
Zion of God upon the earth. Every aspiration
of her soul was to do good; to feed the hungry,
clothe the naked, and to administer to] the
sick and afflicted was her chief delight; she


was a member of the Relief Society to which
she was greatly endeared and will ever live in
their remembrance. Her spirit was as pure as
mortals can possess, and her whole person and
all her everyday life bespoke the exquisite
character of her soul. She could not tolerate
the least semblance of profanity or vulgarity,
or any conduct deviating from the strict sense
of justice, honesty, purity and truth. She
held in highest regard the Celestial law as it
pertains to married life, she was anxious to
fulfill the law of her creation believing that
her Heavenly Father would sustain her upon
the earth until she had fulfilled her duties as
wife and mother. She was the mother of five
living children and of four who died in in-
fancy.
	In May 1875 after a very dangerous and lin-
gering illness of one year, immediately after
her recovery, (though at that time preparing
for a year's sojourn in the south country) she
determined if possible to resurrect the interest
of Silk Culture in Utah, and at once made ap-
plication for the use of President Young's co-
coonery and commenced operations. Her com-
plete snccess upon a large scale, gave a new
impetus to the silk-culture which has spread
through almost every town and hamlet of the
Territory. She has written some very inter-
esting articles upon the subject which have been
published and circulated to promote the man-
uftcture, in this her interest has been so asso-
ciated that her name will remain imperishable
in the history of the seri-culture in Utah.
She raised the worms, spun, reeled and colored
the silk in a variety of textures.
	She was a dear loving wife and companion
and mother in the highest and truest sense
that mortals are permitted to enjoy. Her
sweet voice and influence was a charm for
every disturbance among the children, and a
healing balm to soothe the impulsive spirits
around her, and it was only necessary to be
slightly acquainted with her to love her. Her
truly genial qualities will be remembered by
all her friends and they can but mourn her
loss and sympathize with her bereaved rela-
tives and family. She truly rests in peace,
freed from sickness and sorrow, pain and
death; she is in the society of her parents and
children and the saints that have gone before
to await the morning of the glorious Resurrec-
tion of the just, when she will again mingle
with the saints and help to build up the Holy
City and Temple of our God in which it will
be the happy lot of all the pure in heart to be
associated.
	Though we deeply mourn her loss, we rejoice
that her spirit is liberated from its frail tene-
ment, and we will affectionately cherish her
memory for her good deeds will forever live in
the remembrance of all who have at heart
the welfare of Zion, and especially the sister
who are uniting and combining their ener-
gies and abilities to assist in becoming a self-
ssutaining people.
		Yours Truly,
						J. L. DUNYON.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		29


THE FOURTH IN ST. GEORGE.—The Fourth
has passed off very quietly, I am sure there
must have been a rejoicing in heaven to-day
over the freedom given to one hundred and
fifty of our dead. It was not thought advisa-
ble to close the Temple to-day, and all who
spent their Fourth in that Holy House, felt to
rejoice and give glory to God, that they were
permitted to unloose the bands and give free-
dom to some of their frieuds who have passed
behind the vail. One hundred of the brethren
and sisters who went through to-day in behalf


of the dead, volunteered to act for and in be-
half of Elder Wilford Woodruff, and made him
a very agreeable surprise; as he has the gene-
ology of between four and five thousand dead
relatives to attend to, he cannot hope to do
the work without help. 
	The weather is quite warm in the middle of
the day, but we have cool, pleasant nights.
The crops are in a most flourishing condition.
The brethren and sisters are all feeling the
blessing of having a Temple in their midst,
and the interest in the redemption of our dead
continues to increase.	
	Hoping I have not over-taxed your valuable
time,allow me to wish for the continued success
of your able and instructive paper. I do not think
it is right for any sister to be without the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, if she can possibly pay
for it; better to do without the new dress and
make the old one answer. I consider it neces-
sary,as it makes us acquainted with each other’s
feelings, views and desires, and really helps us
to live our religion.
			Your sister,
								ANNIE W.


FARMINGTON, July 7th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of this place held their
Ninth Annual Meeting, June 12th, 1877, Presi-
dent Mrs. S. J. Holmes presiding. We were
honored with the company of Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. S. M. Kimball, and Mrs. E. S. Barney,
from Salt Lake City; also some of the brethren
met with us. After singing and prayer, the
minutes of last meeting, financial report, and
the amount of wheat taken in since last Fall
(which was over a hundred bushels), were read,
giving general satisfaction.
	Miss E. R. Snow addressed the meeting, said
from hearing the minutes read she could see a
large growth of improvement since her last
visit. Spoke of the duty of both officers and
members in a society; said the teachers occupy
a very responsible position, there was none
more important. Encouraged home manufac-
ture; spoke of the silk that had already been
made in Farmington—the silk of which the
bonnet she had on was made, and wove here.
Advised the setting out of more mulberry
trees, that the business might be carried on
more extensively. Made many other good re-
marks. Blessed the sisters for their efforts
and in their good works.
	Mrs. S. M. Kimball spoke of the interest of
Sister Snow in trying to diffuse the spirit of
home industry among the people; said it was
necessary the sisters be united in their efforts,
but yet the women cannot accomplish much
unless they have the hand of encouragement
reached out to them by the brethren.
	Mrs. E S Barney said she had listened with
interest. Made some very good remarks, call-
ing the attention of the meeting to some
Church books; said some of the wards had a
ibrary, and thought it a good plan for every
society to buy the church books, so they could
be distributed among the people; for what
could be better for our soul's salvation than
leading good books. Said some might object
to buying them as the means might be needed
to build graanries and for other purposes; she
thought reading the books would help to build
them, for the people would get more of the
spirit of their religion, aud then when there is
a will there is always a way.
	The brethren also spoke a few minutes each:
said they had been edified in hearing the sis-
ters, for they were dictated by the Spirit of
God. Said this meeting had been a profitable
one, and asked God to bless those who had
ome to visit us.


President Holmes spoke a few words in con-
clusion. Said we would take a vote whether
we keep the books or not. It was decided to
buy them.
	Meeting was then adjourned, closing with
singing and prayer as usual.
	There has been constderable sickness and a
number of deaths here this last spring and
summer. On June 24th, Mrs. Matilda Peel,
aged sizty one years, died, having been ill for
seveal months. She was a teacher in the soci-
ety, and is very much missed as one of the
leading members of the choir to which she
belonged. Her husband, Benjamin Peel, died
April 24th, two months before she did, so they
were not long separated; he was some years
her senior.
					A. S. ROGERS, Sec'y.


ST. GEORGE, June 27, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having read many of the reports of the
young ladies’ Associations and having
never reported ourselves here in St. George,
we thought a few lines from us as an Asso-
ciation might prove acceptable.
	There has been since our last Conference
a general re-organization throughout the
Southern Stake of Zion. Formerly there
was but one Young Ladies' Association for
all this city, which is composed of four
wards; but since the re-organization we
have one in each ward.
	On May 28th there was a meeting held in
the Fourth Ward Meeting House for the
purpose of organizing the young sisters of
that ward. The Presidency of this Stake,
with our Bishop, D. H. Cannon and his
counselors were present. The officers for
the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement
Association were nominated and unani-
mously accepted as follows: Miss Dora L.
Young, President; Misses Libbie A. Snow
and Annie M. Woodbury, Counselors; Miss
Juie A. Ivins, Secretary; Miss Amy C. Cal-
kin, Treasurer.
	We have had three very interesting
meetings since our new organization, and a
good spirit seems to predominate among
the young sisters; they are trying to learn
more about their religion, and to get more
of the spirit of God in their hearts. We
edit a paper entitled "The Young Ladies'
Diadem," the first number of which was
read to-day in our meeting, and it can be
truly said that it exceeded all our expecta-
tions, and did credit to all the contributors,
and any young lady might be proud to have
her name in it. The subjects were well
chosen, and showed considerable talent, as
well as manifesting the spirit of our relig-
ion. We have forty-one names enrolled as
members the majority of whom attend reg-
ularly. We meet every Wednesday, and
edit our paper every two weeks. The Re-
lief Societies and Young Ladies Associa-
tions throughout the city, also hold a gen-
eral meeting the first Thursday in every 
month.
	The EXPONENT is an ever welcome vis-
itor to us, and we never get tired of perus-
ing its interesting columns.
	We remain your sisters,
			DORA L. YOUNG President,
			JUIE IVINS, Secretary.


An old bachelor was courting a widow,
and both sought the aid of art to give their
fading hair a darker shade. "That's going
to be an affectionate couple," said a wag.
"How so?" asked a friend. "Why, don't
you see that they are dyeing for each other 
already?" was the reply.


30		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

	ELMIRA WATER CURE, N. Y.
						June 22, 1877.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Through the blessing of the Lord, I have
been thus far so successful as to receive my
medical diploma, and am now having a
most pleasant rest for a short season —I say
rest because I am not engaged here every
moment with my books and recitations—
though I am still reading, observing, watch-
ing and examining into the principles of
giving baths. That water has a power of 
its own, no one will deny, especially if 
skillfully applied. The end of all medica-
tion is to assist Nature, not to do her work
for her. The Healing-Art in the hands of
the skillful, should be a resort to furnish
the needed prop or stay when nature is fail-
ing or has failed until she rallies or rebuilds
with her inimitable molecules, as with
bright new bricks, the weak place in the 
economy. The resources should be equal
to all the ills the flesh is heir to, and spirit
too, if we could only grow eye to eye in 
faith and scientific knowledge; but to tell
you of the Water Cure—first the situation
is lovely—on a hillside over-looking the
city of Elmira, which so much resembles
Salt Lake City nestling at the foot of the
everlasting hills, and gladdened with beau-
tiful green trees. The Cure consists of a
large main building four stories high with
a verandah on three sides of the first and
second stories. There is a large wing at
each end of the building one connecting
with a separate cottage by a high balustrad-
ed walk between the second stories. In 
front is a lawn finished with a double row
of pines arranged in the form of a semi-
circle and inclosing a walk between them.
To the north-west is a shady glen, with its
trickling streams, delicate ferns and forget-
me-nots. There are some sixty or seventy
patients in the Cure at present, (almost all
ladies) the greater number being able be-
tween bath hours to employ themselves
with light needle-work, fancy knitting,
reading, walking etc. Some few are con-
fined to their rooms or easy chairs. The 
order of the day is about as follows. At 6
30, a. m. the rising bell rings, breakfast
served at 7 30 a. m.; those who are able go
to the dining room, those who are not have
a tray carried to their room. After break-
fast those who desire, repair to the parlor
for the morning service which consists of a 
short reading in the bible and prayer by Dr.
Wales (gentleman,) and singing of a hymn.
The medical offices are now opened of both
Mr. and Mrs. Wales, the patients awaiting
their turn for advice or treatment. Office
hours are followed by baths each patient ac-
cording to the prescription given. Baths
commence at ten o'clock and continue until
twelve; the different kinds are, hot air,
(miniature Turkish) full, threefourths, sitz,
foot, head and foot, pours, etc.; all fin-
ished up with such vigorous slapping and 
massage by robust Scotch girls that the
sleepiest or half dead molecules of blood
are sent madly coursing on their way re-
newing, enlivening and invigorating with
new life every process of the system. Din-
nner is served at 1 p. m., followed by a nap
or some light employment until three
o'clock when baths begin again and con-
tinue until five. The baths are each of a 
specified time ranging from one minute to 
one half or three quarters of an hour. The
tea bell rings at six, after which two hours
is whiled away on the verandah, in the 
parlor, in the glen, or a ride until the eight

[Column 2]
o'clock bath bell rings for those at that hour.
At 9 30 the bell announces the time for all
to retire to their rooms for the night. Last
Monday evening the son of the Drs. Glea-
son, Mr. Edward Gleason and bride held a 
reception here, having just returned from
their wedding tour. The Cure and grounds
were all aglow with the various colored
Chinese lanterns; sweet music wafted
through the soft evening air from the up-
per verandah and the parlor decorated with 
ground pine and ferns was filled with illus-
trious and gay guests waiting their turn to 
wish "many days of happiness" to the 
sweet faced bride in blue silk and soft laces,
and the proud groom, who fan in hand
gallantly and lovingly supported and fan-
ned the woman of his choice. In Mrs.
Wales office was arranged the beautiful
bridal gifts of silver, choice china and glass,
pictures, pearl opera-glasses and an elegant
black marble clock, which all hoped would
never cease to tick through all their days of 
united joy. The dining-room hung around
with evergreens and bedecked with flags
of the Union, was filled with merry strains
of music which soon won all to look or to
take part in the graceful cotillion or giddy
waltz. No refreshments were served, but
iced lemonade flowed freely at all the side
tables. Among the guests of note were
Rev. Thomas R. Beecher with his charming
wife and adopted daughter, Mr. and Mrs.
Samuel L. Glemens ("Mark Twain",) Miss
Virginia Townsend of Boston, an authoress,
Dr. Harsha, author of "Life and Summer"
etc., Mrs. Moe, (whose poems W. C. Bryant
has praised,) Dr. Up. De. Qupp's beautiful
wife, and a number more of the first citi-
zens of Elmira. The evening was one of
unusual pleasure to all.
	The weather to-day is very cool for June,
many of the patients requiring a fire in
their rooms, while others seek the genial
atmosphere of the parlor fire.
	I expect to spend a few days with my
sisters and brothers in Bloomington, Ind.,
and then I hope to hie me to my mountain
home as fast as the laggard steam car will
carry me. I go home heart hungry and
soul starved to feast on the society of my
dear family and friends. As surely as the
temporal economy will starve without bread
so will the soul on scientific knowledge
without spiritual food. I do not say I have
been barren of spiritual gifts for I know the
blessing of the Lord has been with me to
sustain and help me day by day. I did not
come east to preach the Gospel, but I know
I have many times and in many ways bro-
ken down prejudices against my people. It 
has often been said to me "I am glad I have
me you, for I shall always feel differently
now towards your people." When I first
came here all were very genial until in
answer to "where is your home?" I said
"Salt Lake City," like wild fire it went the
rounds "she's a Mormon," when at once
the atmosphere almost went to zero, I was
thereafter received with freezing calmness,
arched eyebrows, and threefourths angle of
shoulder and sometimes a quiet good morn-
ing. I quite as calmly accepted the change
but fervently prayed to the Lord to let truth
triumph, and now the change is marvelous,
pleasant smiles and greetings, warm shakes
of the hand, invitations to visit them in 
their rooms, and interview after interview
requested, and the most intelligent of the 
ladies greet me on all sides. Only a day or
two ago I was closeted with three ladies for
two or more hours answering as rapidly as
possible their eager questions and explain-
ing to my best ability the principles of our 
faith. The conversation was continued
over to another day because the bath girl

[Column 3]
came for the ladies to take their baths.
They told me it was not curiosity that
prompted them, but said with some degree
of earnestness "We want to know the truth,
and we like you; we have read the books
and heard the lectures against your people,
and now we are glad to talk with some one
who thoroughly believes in the faith."
They said they never heard of any elders
preaching in that part of the country, and
when I told them my husband expected to
preach in these parts they said they should 
certainly go to hear him or any elder they 
could hear of. In listening to them I 
thought verily the Lord is using the books
and lectures of apostates as scourges to 
rouse and awaken the people to look about
themselves and inquire "where is the
truth?"—a question when once thoroughly
fastened in the mind, gives some promise
that the truth will be found—it seems nec-
essary that the inferior who have no light
should sound the "gong" to awaken the
sleepers so that the teachers possessed of
light may have the full benefit of their at-
tention and quickened faculties.
	The Dr's. Wales, (Mr. and Mrs.) are un-
wearied in their attentions and care of all
around them and are admirable and suc-
cessful physicians. Dr. Gleason with her
placid and intelligent face, is sweet assur-
ance itself to her patients that all will be
well with them.
	I fear the length of this epistle is out of
all propriety, but since I have passed the
Rubicon as it were, and have rested a little,
I want to say as much too much, as before
too little.
	With the earnest hope that I shall soon
be able to join with the faithful my mite to-
wards building up the Kingdom of God, I
subscribe myself your sister in the Gospel,
			ROMANIA B. PRATT, M. D.


THE EFFECTS OF BEAUTY IN
NATURE.

BY BLANCHE BEECHWOOD.

	"But mighty nature bounds as from her birth—
	The sun is in the heavens, and life on earth;
	Flowers in the valley, splendor in the beam,
	Health in the gale, and freshness in the stream."
		BYRON'S LARA.
	On every hand we behold the beautiful
that which calls forth from us serious
thoughts, admiration and aspirations, of a
healthful tone and an elevating character.
In the pictures which surround us there are
always subjects which cheer and inspire,
which actually preach to us forcibly, in
characters which the intelligence within us
comprehends, although perhaps indefinable
in expression. Nature in her truly elegant
simplicity is the foundation of all education.
The lessons taught us in this simple fashion
are lasting, for they speak to the heart
more than the head; and it is the educa-
tion of the heart that is most refining, and
that is likely to be most neglected.
The impressions made upon us by partic-
ular out-door scenes, rural or sublime, as
they present themselves upon certain occa-
sions, in certain lights and shades, and at
the various seasons, bring to bear not only
the happy association of the time and place,
and force us to remember them ever after-
wards with pleasurable feelings, but they
speak to our inmost souls of what is real,
and far more positive and tangible than the
invention of man in his wisdom can pro-
duce. The artistic excellence of the works
of the Infinite so far surpass all that man
has done,or can do, that we are lost in won-


[Column 1]

der at the thought, and feel that there
must exist higher laws and more advanced
principles of science by which the great
structure of the universe has been reared,
and holds its mighty equipoise. The laws
and principles of men are transitory, those
of nature are enduring, possessing the
germ of life that is eternal, and capable of
endless reproduction. One of the most elo-
quent and touching sermons of our blessed
Savior was suggested from the "lilies of the
field." How insignificant is all the wisdom
of the wise men of the earth, when com-
pared with one eternal principle of the In-
finite.
	There is a kinship and fellowship with
nature that all intelligent and honest heart-
ed persons must be conscious of, though
some may possess it in a fuller or more ex-
alted degree than others. The love which
is spontaneous in our souls for flowers
and shrubs and verdure, brings to our 
hearts a freshness corresponding to their
sweetness and simplicity. One must cer-
tainly be better in feeling, better in life,
from continually coming in contact, and 
being associated with scenes and images of 
beauty. Every mother who desires her
child to possess fineness of soul, and aspira-
tions of the most exalted nature should
surround her home with flowers and shrubs
and foliage, for they beget and foster influ-
ences that will grace childhood with pleas-
antness, mellowing and smoothing much
that would otherwise be rough, dreary and
hard. Point out to the children the beau-
ties of scenery, implant in their natures an
admiration for it, express to them your own
love for it, and your own thoughts concern-
ing it, and let them understand the charm
it carries with it to the soul of the be-
holder. In such simple fashion you may
help to make home pleasant, and develop
your own powers of expression, while you
call forth from them the love of the beauti-
ful, and educate them in the lessons which
nature teaches.
	The exquisite touches of beauty and col-
oring of all nature's landscapes bespeak the
finished culture and polish of a hand and
brain that transcend all mortality, and ought
to engender a consciousness in every per-
son that possesses a spark of innate living
divinity of that immortality of the soul for
the positive knowledge of which every in-
telligent being yearns.
	What grandeur of thought is suggested
by the association of strong, majestic old
trees, by stupendous and lofty mountains,
and vast ledges of rugged and ragged or
moss-grown rocks; what exquisite tender-
ness and gentleness by the lovingly cling-
ing tendrils of some luxuriant unbrageous
vine. And who that has ever dwelt by the 
seashore can forget the surging and mur-
muring of the great deep, and the language
it seems to speak to the soul. The charm
and attraction linger with those who have
been reared by its waters, and they recall it
in dreams and memories to the most dis-
tant period of their lives.
	These lessons which nature teaches alike
to all, open up avenues of thought that
carry us backward to past ages and forward
as far as the vision if the mind can extend.
	There is a pleasure in the pathless woods,
		There is a rapture on the lonely shore,
	There is society where none intrudes
		By the deep sea and music in its roar.
	I love not man the less but uature more
		From these our interviews in which I steal
	From all I may be, or have been before,
		To mingle with the universe and feel
	What I can ne'er express yet cannot all conceal.
		CHILDO HAROLD.
The beauties and sublimities of nature

[Column 2]

that we continually behold around us on
every side are to all mankind a perpetual
miracle, that no human mind can ever
wholly solve without divine assistance; and
while they call forth our most sublime ad-
miration, we involuntarily exclaim, "How
wonderful are Thy works' Lord God Omnip-
tent!" 
	S. L. City, July 9, 1877.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

PUBLIC SCHOOL TEACHERS' SALA-
	RIES.

INTERVIEW WITH PRINCIPAL DILL.

He Opposes Reduction, Particularly of
	Ladies' Pay.

	A reporter for the Commercial walking
along Fourth street, yesterday, observed
the school moralist, Dill, gazing upon the
photos and statuary in Robert Clarke's win-
dow, and knowing the genial moralist as a
ready talker on school matters, and one who
says straight out what he thinks, a short
interview was proposed, which contains a
few points of interest, as the Board of Edu-
cation is now about to cut off the school
shekels—reduce the teachers' salaries.
	Reporter—Mr. Dill, what do you think of
the reduction in salaries?
	Dill—I don't think much about it.  Mr.
Miller is a very excellent gentleman, but
his endeavor to reduce school teachers to
the rank of uneducated employes is but an
endeavor to perform a small thing in a
large way.
	Reporter—Well, don't you think that
school teachers are, under present circum-
stances, overpaid?
	Dill—No, sir; the teachers are not over-
paid.  They serve the community well,
wear plain clothes, live in very moderate
style, and only have enough to eat to keep
soul and body together.  The truth is, if
the teachers are to get lower salaries, dress
in poor calico and jeans, board or live in
alleys or unfrequented streets, and slink,
poverty-stricken, from public observation,
the effect will be bad—very bad, upon the
schools.  The teachers are engaged in work
intellectual and moral, and if Mr. Miller de-
grades their salaries, dress, home and social
position, the teacher is degraded in the es-
timation of children and parents.
	Reporter—But hard times seem to require
a reduction in every public department,
and the teachers should contribute a little
in reducing the public burden.
	Dill—No, sir; you are indulging in a mild
form of financial nonsense.  The teachers
are only getting moderate salaries, less in
fact than the teachers of other cities are
getting. Suppose you reduce the teachers'
salaries $5,000, what will you do with the
$5,000?  The money is earned and paid
right out by the teachers to grocers, seam-
stresses, boardinghouse keepers, &c.  Sup-
pose the Board cuts off $10,000, will the
$10,000 be saved, will it be better applied
than now, will it reduce the tax rates? No,
no, sir.
	Reporter—Well, I hear that the commit-
tee will report in favor of cutting off ten
per cent. of your salaries.
	Dill—Yes, I've heard so, but care nothing
about it.  The Board can cut my salary up
or down, but if they cut down the salaries
of the female teachers, they will entitle
themselves to a little merited execration.
	Reporter—Why not reduce their salaries,
as well as the principals?
	Dill—The Principals are supposed to be
men; in an emergency they could, possibly,
do something else, but the women can not.

[Column 2]
It requires from five to eight years' prepa-
ration for the position of teacher; and, [-]e-
porter, see here, now listen to what I am
saying.  God never intended women to
waste their lives in per cent. school teach-
ing, not a bit of it.  Women were intended
for wives and mothers, but school-teaching
is a dead lock against both.  When a young
woman commences to teach school she
loses nine chances in ten for marriage; if
she teaches five years her chances for mar-
riage and the dear delights of motherhood
are but one chance in one hundred, and if
she teaches ten years her chances for mar-
riage and good social position are but one
in ten thousand.  I tell you, reporter, this
ought to be considered.  There are four
hundred and more female teachers in Cin-
cinnati, and of these at least three hundred
will go in plain funeral to unmarked graves,
unknown, unloved, unmarried! This is a
fact not generally treated upon; and I say
that the man who reduces the dress, home
comforts and pleasures of the school wo-
men does an unkindness, a cruelty, an un-
mitigated meanness which ought not to be
forgiven in this world nor that to come.
	Reporter—You do not, then, favor a re-
duction of salaries?
	Dill—So far as my own is concerned I
have nothing to say—they can cut it up or
down $100 or $200.  I have given twenty
years' study to school business; have passed
all the examinations in Ohio; have taught
in common school, high school and college,
and if the Board wishes to reduce my sala-
ry and belittle my position I shall say noth-
ing about it.  I have a wife and several
children, two of my children are in the
schools, and I think Mr. Miller's resolution
will not be prayerfully regarded at my
house.	[Exit Dill,]
—"Cincinnati Commercial."


R. S. REPORT.

		SMITHFIELD, June 14th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 I send you a report of our annual meet-
ing, held May 12th, 1877. It was well at-
tended and we had a good time. The re-
port for the year past is as follows:
Property on hand, donations, dividends in
	store, and sundries.................$695 42
Disbursements to poor, school, and
	on Society house..................... 303 35
Property belonging to Relief Soci-
	ety, vouchers on Utah Northern
	R. R, shares in Co-op store, knit-
	ting machine, quilts, sundries..327 13
	Bishop Samuel Roskelly gave us good in-
structions in regard to home manufacture,
wishing us as a Society to  engage in every
branch of home industry that we can; es-
pecially to plant mulberry trees and go to
raising silk,  and thus help to fulfil the
mission given to the women of Utah. Our
climate is rather cold for the mulberry, but
we intend to obey counsel and leave the re-
sult with the Lord.
	President E. T. Morehead gave us some
good counsel upon our duties as a Relief
Society; said in looking back to the time
when we were first organized she could see
so much improvement, that it gave her
great joy, and she hoped we would con-
tinue to progress in the future.
	We have almost finished our Society
House, and then we expect to have more
means to help build Temples, and for any
other good work that may be needed.
May God bless the EXPONENT and every
good work that is for the building up of
Zion.
					E. T. JUSHAH


32		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	Excellent recipe for children for summer com-
plain, teething, etc. Take one ounce of anise
seed and steep it thoroughly; strain it boiling hot
over one-half ounce of Turkish rhubarb grated
fine, add one-quarter of an ounce of carbonate of
soda, one-half pound of sugar, and one pint of
Jamaica rum. Give in small doses, according to 
the age and constitution of the patient; for a very
young child one-half teaspoonful three or four
times a day—for an older one a teaspoonful, and
so on.
	Leave off the Garters.—Children shonld never
wear garters, as the stockings can be perfectly
well kept up by an attachment of elastic strips to
the waistband. If garters are worn it is import-
ant to know how to apply them with the least risk
of harm. At the bend of the knee the superficial
veins of the leg unite and go deeply into the under
part of the thigh beneath the hamstring tendons.
Thus a ligature below the knee obstructs all the
superficial vein; but if the obstruction is above,
the hamstring tendons keep the pressure off the
veins which return the blood from the legs. Un-
fortunately, most people, in ignorance of the above
facts, apply the garter below the knee. Elastic
bands are the most injurious. They follow the
movements of the muscles and never relax their
pressure upon the veins. Non-elastic bands dur-
ing muscular exertion become considerably relaxed
at intervals and allow freer citculation of the
blood.—Popnlar Science Monthly.
	Electricity as a Remedy.—I think the use of
electricty by anybody at present to be experi-
mental. I doubt if there is a man or a woman liv-
ing who can foretell what will be the result from
its use in any case. In the first place, nobody
knows what it is, nor does anybody know any-
thing about it except from its effects. That a 
substance, so called, exists in nature is a fact, but
what its uses are nobody knows. Science has not
evolved the truth in respect to it in this direction.
How to use it remedially, therefore, is not known
at present as a certainty. That a great many per-
sons have been benefitted by its use is not at all
to be questioned; because facts are always to be
received. That a great many persons also have
been greatly injured in its use is not a whit less a
fact. These two facts placed against each other
balance each other, and should satisfy anybody
that whoever uses it, or receives its use, must em-
ploy it or accept it at a risk. In my professional
life I have had a great many persons come to me
for advice, who previous to coming had been under
electric treatment, and who felt they had been
greatly injured by it. Most of those persons to
whom it was administered were suffering from 
chronic congestion of the brain. It would not be
fair for me to say that the injuries they received
were owing to the use of electricity, because lts
use might have been badly administered, and be-
cause I think few persons are by scientific educa-
tion and practice sufficiently well informed as to
what are likely to be the results in any given case
of its use that I say what I do about it. Further
investigation and experiment may develop a
knowledge which shall render its use highly bene-
ficial. When such attainment is secured then it is
to be a matter of rejoicing. At present if I were
suffering from congestion of the brain I should by
no means consent to its exhibition on my own per-
son, unless he who desired to administer it was a 
man of such experience and scientific culture as to
create in me a firm belief that he knew what he
was about, and if he did not help me he would
not harm me.- Journal of Health, Danesville,
N. Y.


In Japan boys become men at fifteen and
receive new names. Many of the youth in
America wear their good names out before
they are fifteen, and are in deplorable want
of new ones.


ORIGIN OF QUARRELS.—The sweetest,
most clinging affection is often shaken by
the slightest breath of unkindness, as the
delicate rings and tendrils of the vine agi-
tated by the faintest air that blows in sum-
mer. An unkind word from one beloved
often draws blood from many a heart which
defy the battle-ax of hatred or the keenest
edge of vindictive satire. Nay, the shade,
the gloom of the face familiar and dear,
awakens grief and pain. These are the lit-
tle thorns which, though men of a rougher
form may make their way through them
without feeling much, extremely incom-
mode persons of a more refined turn in their
journey through life, and make their trav-
eling irksome and unpleasant.


SMALL THINGS.- Neglect of small things
is the rock on which the great majority of
the human race have split. Human life
consists of a succession of small events, each
of which is comparatively unimportant, and
yet the happiness and success of each man
depend upon the manner in which these
small events are dealt with. Character is
built upon little things—little things well
and honorably transacted. The success of a
man in business depends on his attention to
little things. The comfort of a household
is the result of small things well arranged
and duly provided for. Good government
can only be accomplished in the same way
-by well regulated provisions for the do-
ing of little things.-Smiles.


COL. J. REESE
Is Sole Agent for Utah, for the Almond Pow-
			 der Toilet Soap.  
	Finely powdered and put up in glass bottles, with per-
forated tops. As a toilet article, it is excellent; it clean-
ses and purifies the skin.
	For sale, wholesale and retail, corner First South and
Second West Street, Fourteenth Ward.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
			for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
		OF ONE, TWO OR 
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly.  Prices low and no interest charged.  Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
		CALDER & CARELESS.

WOMAN’S COMMISSION HOUSE
IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF 
WOOLEN GOODS,
SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS,
	DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
		FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
			BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
				LADIES JACKETS,
					STOCKINGS, YARNS,
						SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
							LATEST	STYLES OF
								fANCY WORSTED TIES,
	Men’s Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter. Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider-Vine-
gar, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spoo[-] Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue,
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of Jamaica Ginger
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore
	Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands Sole
		Leather and other Trunks, Gents' Fine
			Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
				Table Salt. Band Boxes and
					Dixie Cotton.	
HOME-MADE WOOLEN BATTING,
NEW ZEALAND FLAX SEED.
DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
	Pumps Repaired on short notice.
	Orders from the country promptly responded to.
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.
	F. AUERBACH & BRO.
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY
		Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
				Staple and Fancy
DRY GOODS,
	Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
		Mens and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
			and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
						Pipes, Cutlery, Etc, 
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest,Wholesale Buy-
	ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottom Prices at
	the old Fashioned House.
	THE FINE ARTS.
	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
 We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock[-] Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
Send your orders to 	C. R. SAVAGE
                                     Salt Lake City,	Utah.
Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity, to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
	Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium.  Do not forget
			17, East Temple street.
		TEMPLE of FASHION.
	Ladies attending Conference will do well to [-]ive her a
call.
		Z.C.M.I.
			Wholesale and Retail Dealing
				in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
			STUDEBAKER WAGONS, 
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

		TEASEDEL'S
THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
			FOR THE LADIES,
AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
	LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
		DRESS GOOD, PROVISIONS, Etc.

H. DINWOODEY	
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers, Wall Paper
			AND
	BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77, & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
