VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1877.	No. 5.


BLESSED ARE THEY WHO LABOR
FOR ZION.

How blessed are the people
	Who know the Lord their God;
How blest are they who labor
	To spread His truth abroad.
Our God will bless His servants,
	Where'er on earth they roam,
To bear the joyful tidings
	And gather Israel Home.

Though they go forth in weakness
	The Lord will be their friend;
His angels go before them
	His power their ways attend.
Rejoice, O scattered Israel!
	The promised day has come.
When from your long dispersion
	You shall be gathered home.

Go forth, ye chosen servants!
	The joyful news proclaim,
While here we build our Temples
	Iu honor to God's name.
And while the gathering thousands,
	From every land shall come,
We'll store up bread to feed them,
	And bid them welcome home,

With faith and works united.
	Let each their portion bear
To build onr holy Temples,
	And gain our blessings there.
Thus may we all be ready
	When Zion's King shall come,
That we with joy and gladness
	May bid Him welcome home.

And then with all the faithful
	Our promised rest obtain,
A thousand years in Zion
	With Him in peace to reign.
Then in our Father's mansions
	He will prepare us room
The joyful greeting waits us;
	"My children welcome home."

		ESTHER A. HOAGLAND.
S. L. City.


[Column 1]
	JOSEPH SMITH THE PROPHET.

	I consider Joseph Smith the greatest
man the world ever knew, (except the
Savior.) He lived a saint, and died a mar-
tyr for his religion; he sealed his testimony
with his blood which was spilt by the
hands of a bloodthirsty mob who came dis-
guised painted black and red and dressed
in hideous colors and costumes. They were
influenced and led on by pretended preach-
ers of the Gospel. The state authorities
tried time after time to find him guilty of
some evil to convict him, but they never
could, for he was an innocent man; he
served God and loved mankind; even to
the laying down of his life. But with him
as with the Savior and His Apostles, men
would swear to lies to get him into prison;
but he never got angry and went to war.
No! He was like a lamb, he went with
them when he knew they were going to
kill him, and he was as calm as a summer's
morning when he bid his friends good-bye,
and told them that it would yet be said that
he was murdered in cold blood.
	Let us look at what he did for us who be-
lieved and obeyed his words. He taught
us the Gospel and told us there was a God
in heaven, who was our father and we were
His children; he instructed us how to pray
to our Father in the name of Jesus and
gain a knowledge for ourselves, and taught
us how to live and follow Christ our elder

[Column 2]
brother, that we may inherit a kingdom of
glory; if we will live by his teachings and
what he left on record, it will take you and
me right into the celestial kingdom of our
God.
	Can we follow the example he set? He
loved his friends and prayed for his ene-
mies and those who would injure him; he
was kind to the poor and needy, visiting
the sick and afflicted and took care of the
widow and orphans; gave bread to the
hungry and those who would borrow he
turned not away empty, yet he himself was
a poor man; so you see the Lord nearly al-
ways chose the poor to accomplish a great
work. Abraham had no riches when the
Lord called him; Isaac could not be called
rich; Jacob was a herder of stock. David,
a man after God's own heart, he was a
shepherd boy. Moses brought up at the
king's table was turned off without a for-
tune. Jesus the Lord and Savior of the
world, was born in a manger, and brought
up as a poor carpenter's son; he was not
rich for we read of him and his disciples
eating green corn on the Sabbath day be-
cause they were hungry. Thus we see the
servants of the Lord were poor and lowly.
The Lord takes the poor and meek of the
earth to confound the wise and the great.
Think of this church being organized with
only six members in 1830, now they are in
nearly every town, city, village and county
over the whole earth; all through the in-
strumentality of a poor farmer's boy who
read the Bible and was willing to give heed
to the teachings therein. Let us do like-
wise.
						M. A. W.
	Mill Creek Ward, July, 1877.


WOMEN PHYSICIANS.

	I say that to open the study and practise
of medicine to women-folk, under the in-
fallible safe-guard of a stiff public examina-
tion, will be to rise in respect for human
rights to the level of European nations who
do not brag about just freedom half as
loud as we do, and to respect the constitu-
tional rights of many million citizens, who
will pay their taxes like men, and, by the
contract with the State implied in that
payment, have the clear human right they
have yet to go down on their knees for.
But it will also import into the medical
science a new and less theoretical, but cau-
tious, teachable, observant kind of intel-
lect; it will give the larger half of the na-
tion an honorable ambition and an honora-
ble pursuit toward which their hearts and
instincts are bent by Nature herself; it will
tend to elevate this whole sex, and its
young children, male as well as female, and
so will advance the civilization of the
world, which in ages past, in our own day,
and in all time, hath and doth and will keep
stop exactly with the progress of women
toward mental equality with men.—Cha's
Reade, in Harper's for July.


THE darkness of night helps us Ito see
the bright stars—the darkness of sorrow
helps us to see God and heaven.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MONDAY EVENING July 16, Mother
Stewart addressed a very large audience, in
Cooper Institute, N. Y.
	MISS LYDIA Becker stated, at a Woman
Suffrage meeting in England recently, that
there were 2,500,000 spinsters in Great
Britian who owned $750,000,000 of prop-
erty.
	MISS E. STAUNTON Chadbourne, of Bos-
ton, is about to make miscellaneous read-
ings a profession. She is a graduate of the
"Boston School of Oratory,' which for in-
struction in Elocution is second to no other
in the country.
	THE DESERET News of July 27, states
that the Union Pacific workmen obtained
their point without recourse to violence or
a strike. The order for a reduction of wa-
ges was rescinded by Sup't Clarke on
his own responsibility, who announced his
willingness to hear any of their grievances
at any time and conciliated them by reduc-
ing the price of coal supplies to their fami.
lies.
	THE GREAT Strikes in the States have been
increasing daily, and up to the present time
have not abated. It is impossible to give any
idea of the terrible consequences which are
now being felt, and what the future will be
no man without the aid of revelation could
possibly determine. The suppression of
the mobs and riots will call into exercise
all the energies and capabilities of the wis-
est and best heads. If it continues for any
length of time the country will certainly
be involved in ruin, which at the present
representation of affairs from newspaper
reports is imminent. In all the largest cit-
ies along the railroad routes life and prop-
erty are at the mercy of those who are in-
furiated with the spirit of mobocracy
which seems to be broadcast now over
these United States. Indian depredations
and troubles are also on the increase and
the state of things all over this country is
really deplorable. The Eastern war ac-
counts are by no means indicative of peace
or of any amicable arrangements, and ac-
cording to recent telegrams the two empires
are calling to their aid all the reinforce-
ments they can possibly obtain.


A SIDE LIGHT.—Never face the light
when at work, but contrive to have a side
light, which will not shine directly in the
eyes. In the schools in Germany this mat-
ter has already been attended to, and the
rule adopted is to have all the seats and ta-
bles so arranged that the pupil never faces
the windows, but only has the side lights
from the left; and as a light simultaneously
thrown from two sides, gives an inference
of shadows, it has been strictly forbidden
to build school-rooms with windows on
both sides, such illumination having also
proved injurious to the eyes of the pupils.
We may add to this advice not to place the
lamp in front of you when at work in the
evening, but a little on one side; use a
shade—a green one is best as it softens the
light, which illuminates only the work up-
on which it falls.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms
Saturday, July 21, was exceedingly inter-
esting. President Mrs. M. I. Horne re-
marked that the minutes of the last meet-
ing were full of instruction and showed the
great improvement being made. She gave
good advice to mothers in respect to the
care of their children and especially con-
cerning their diet. Remarks were made
by several of the sisters who attended the
recent meeting of the Weber Relief Socie-
ties inOgden, in regard to the good in-
structions and wise counsel given there to
women by President Young and other
brethren. Many good things were said on
the subject of being self-sustaining and the
practice of economy. The study of medi-
cine or more particularly obstetrics was
commented upon, and the idea of encour-
aging our girls to make themselves profi-
cient in the study and practice, and learn to
obey all the laws of life. These meetings
are replete with good instruction, and ex-
ercise a powerful influence for good in the
midst of the saints.

	GRANTSVILLE, TOOELE, July 16, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The sisters of this branch of the Relief
Society are trying to keep up with the
times. There are no poor uncared for; the
teachers are faithful in the discharge of
their duties. Retrenchment from every
evil is taught in our meetings; backbiting
is condemned. We have nearly three hun-
dred bushels of grain stored away and in-
tend to still take care of all we can get.
The counsel of President Young to supply
our own wants is being carried out to a
great extent. We shall endeavor to plant
out a lot, that the brethren has given us, in
mulberry trees next spring, for the purpose
of raising silk-worms. We are striving to
become united in doing all the good we
can. The young ladies are also doing well.
	With best wishes for the prosperity of
the EXPONENT we remain your sisters in
the Gospel, M. A. Hunter, President; Jane
Eastham, and Sarah Hale, Counselors.
				M. A. HOUSE, Secretary.

		HILLSDALE, IRON CO. UTAH.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	A Relief Society was organized at this
place June 3, 1877, under the direction of
Elder Seth Johnson, president of the
branch, and several other brethren; we had
an excellent meeting and much good in-
struction was given. The election of offi-
cers were as follows: For president, Mrs.
Mary A. Johnson; counselors Mrs. Martha
A. Wilson, and Mrs. Julia D. Wilson; Sec-
retary, Mrs. Susanna D. Pinney; Assistant
Secretary, Miss Martha A. Wilson; Treas-
urer Mrs. Mary J. Johnson. We live in a
somewhat scattered condition on account of
many having large farms but we meet to-
gether and enjoy ourselves in our meetings
very much, at the present. We number
fifteen members, but expect that number
will continue to increase. We are making
preparations for gathering and storing grain
according to the counsels of President
Young, and intend to try to keep up with
the times in every good work. We have a
Young Men's Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation at this place which is doing much
good among the young. Our general Sab-
bath meetings are well attended and the
spirit of union and good feeling prevails

[Column 2]
and all seem interested in trying to carry
out the counsel of the priesthood of God
upon the earth, and although the wicked
may howl and strive to utterly destroy the
Kingdom of God, our faith is that it will
triumph, and the wicked receive their just
reward.
	Hoping that prosperity may attend all
the branches of the Relief Society through-
out the Territory, I remain your sister in
Gospel,
			SUSANNA D. PINNEY,
						Secretary.


CORRESPONDENCE.

DEAR EXPONENT:
	I use the term dear as expressive of my
feelings, and you are, or should be dear to
every woman in Utah who has the interest
of Zion at heart. It is not because I never
think of writing there is never a line from
me in your columns, but because I do not
feel capable of interesting my sisters. I
often think if I could only write like "Aunt
Em" and some other contributors to the
EXPONENT, I should write often; but there
is a time when we all have to begin.
	We have had quite a sad time here lately
on account of the drowning of one of Elder
Woodruff's sons; the particulars of the ac-
cident were published in the "Deseret
News." Mrs. Phebe Woodruff of Salt Lake
City came up to the funeral and stayed a
few days. While here, she kindly con-
sented to talk to the Relief Society and
Young Ladies' Association. I never heard
better or more motherly advice in my life.
I thought while listening to her wise coun-
sel, the time is about passed when women
will be looked upon as mere drudges and
helps by the lords of creation. They are
stepping to the front and taking their pla-
ces where they belong, by the side of men,
not as the head but as the helpmeet. I
think if the world could hear some of our
Mormon women talk, and could read our
paper and know how they express them-
selves in writing, they would not speak as
they do about us. Of course all the women
in Utah are not saints, and tourists talk to
that class as well as to true saints, and form
impressions accordingly, and they go away
and say, "a fine young lady said to me
while in Utah, I shall never go into polyg-
amy, I do not want to share my husband
with another wife," and so on. They who
write thus, are not aware that those who
talk like this are not true Latter-day saints;
and of course they will not live in plural
marriage and if they should they would
not remain true to its requirements, and
make those happy with whom they were
associated.
	Our Relief Society and Young Ladies'
Association are in a prosperous condition,
under the guidance of their worthy presi-
dents, viz., E. T. Morehead, president of
the Relief Society, and A. Barber, of the
Young Ladies' Association.
	We are anxiously looking for a visit from
some of the rest of our good sisters from
the city, to talk to us. Praying for the
success of your valuable paper, I remain,
	Your Sister in the Gospel.
		M. S.


For the EXPONENT.
			PRAYER.

	I often think of the word prayer and its
great efficacy-indeed, without prayer how
could we endure trails? It fills the heart


with gratitude and love to approach the
throne of grace by supplication; it soothes
the weary; it puts the mind to rest; it com-
forts us through sorrows, when we feel that
we must give up, if we cannot find help.
When we see our loved ones taken from us,
one by one, and we feel ofttimes that God
has forgotten us; those we have thought
our true friends forsake us, and our neigh-
bors slight us; we have no friends and
nothing worth living for; disappointments
befall us, and a chastening hand is upon us
and our trials seem more than we can bear;
it is then, if we will humble ourselves and
say Father, forgive me my sins, and teach
me to do thy wiil, that we realize the words
“Ask of me in my name and you shall re-
ceive.” Then we will find consolation in
prayer; we begin to feel like taking up
our cross and jogging along and going about
our duties, saying, “Blessed is the name of
the Lord.”
	Dear sisters, do you ever feel like this?
if you do you cannot get such comfort in
any other way as you may through prayer.
Then how necessary it is for us to pray.
we should keep it in our minds continually,
that all we do and say, every action of our
lives, should be the subject of prayer.  Our
minds may be filled with good thoughts for
each other, that we may grow better day
by day that we may be a comfort to those
that are around us, that when we lay our
bodies down to rest we shall be missed, and
be worthy to meet those loved ones that
are gone before us.  Then let us always
pray.	
							A SISTER.
	Alpine, Utah Co., June 20, 1877.


SHREDS AND GLEANINGS.

	A fashionable summer resort—The Society
Islands.
	The moon is so old, that, if it is made of
green cheese it is unquestionably inhab-
ited.
	What is that which never asks any ques-
tions, but requires many answers?—The
street-door.
	The Dearest Object. A man's dearest ob-
ject should be his wife; but alas! sometimes
it is his wife's wardrobe.
	"Spell cat," said a little girl of five years
of age, the other day, to a smaller one of
three. “I can’t," was the reply. "Well,
then," continued the youthful mistress, "if
you can't spell cat, spell kitten."
	Advice is offensive, not because it lays us
open to unexpected regret, or convicts us of
any fault which has escaped our notice, but
because it shows that we are known to oth-
ers as well as ourselves: and the officious
monitor is persecuted with hatred, not be-
cause his accusation is false, but because he
assumes the superiority which we are not
willing to grant him, and has dared to de-
tect what we desire to conceal.
	A Dish for the Queen—In olden days the
peacock was a favorite dish with lords and
ladies of high degree. It was customary
to skin the bird without plucking, and send
the roast bird to table in its natural envel-
op. The peacock was considered in the
days of chivalry, not simply as an exquisite
delicacy, but as a dish of peculiar solemnity.
When it was brought to the table, decorat-
ed with its plumage, its comb gilded, and a
sponge in its bill, wet with spirits of wine
and lighted, it was the signal for the gallant
knights present to make vows to accomplish
some deed of chivalry "before the peacock
and the ladies."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


COUNT DE CHARNEY.

REFLECTIONS ON READING "PICCAOLA."

Alone and forsaken on life's stormy main,
With no hope of the blessing of freedom again,
His aims and ambition for earth in the dust:
Despair, in his bosom no faith and no trust
In his God and his Saviour to pierce through the gloom,
That enshrouded his spirit more dark than the tomb.

The phantom of happiness which he had sought,
That cannot with things of earth ever be bought,
Had fled from before him as dew from the lawn.
All, all but despair and his cold pride were gone.
With thought's maddening power alone in his cell,
His soul's bitter anguish no mortal can tell.

There came to his prison by kind angels sent,
Who on missions of love o'er the lone one had bent,
A frail gentle flower, like him there alone,
And it touched a deep heart-chord before all unknown,
A chord which could lead him to peace and to love,
To see God in His works, and to him look above.

He had drank, deeply drank of science and art,
In all of earth's pleasures had borne a wild part,
The proud and the lovely before him had knelt,
But the touch of pure friendship he never had felt,
Until to his prison this frail flower came,
Which taught him to love, and his fierce pride to tame.

He knelt unto man for the life of his flower,
For his own, would have scorned to bow down to the
	power
Which had torn from him honor, fame fortune and all,
And confined a lone prisoner within the dark wall,
In those hours of darknesss it was his one joy,
His thought and his study his care and employ. 

It saved to him reason, it brought to him love,
And friendship as pure as the angel's above;
It opened at last his dark prison cell,
And placed him again 'mid life's pleasures to dwell;
He took this mute friend this companion in pain,
To share in the sunshine of freedom again.

He won for a bride the fair girl who had come,
To share with her father his dark prison home,
To smooth with her loved hand his silvery hair,
And with smiles strive to win him from sorrow and care,
It showed him the power which love has to win,
The heart from all selfishness lurking within.

Now pause I in sorrow and pain to relate,
Of his flower, his angel of blessing, the fate;
To tell its neglect in his triumph and joy,
And how this neglect its fair life did destroy:
Alas o'er my heart comes a desolate pain
Tis'the same sad life-story repeated again.

He had, placed it where beauty and light shone around,
Where moon-beams and dewdrops gleamed bright on the
	ground,
But it faded and silently passed from the earth,
While he was deep drinking of gladness and mirth;
The sunshine and moonbeams all vainly had shone,
While the light and the love of his presence were gone.
	HOPE.
S. L. City, 1877.	Sarah E. Russell


A VISIT TO KIRTLAND

   The name Kirtland is so familiar to the
large majority of your readers, that an ex-
tended preamble would be out of place.
Let it be known, however, that the place
was once a Mormon stronghold, and the
home of 40,000 people; and beside the in-
terest it has for me from this cause, it is the
birthplace of my father.
   Whoever it was that set the laws of
physical geography at such defiance as to
name is Kirtland Flats is not known, but it
is safe to assume that he was some rela-
tive to that personified paradox who intro-
duced white black-birds into the country.
Instead of flats it is all hills and dales, al-
ternating in endless variety, but withal a
charming piece of nature adorned profusely
with verdure, patches of forest and culti-
vated fields, while a clear stream of water
meanders on its sinuous way, widening,
bending, curling  over meadows in succes-
sion, till in final despair it plunges out of
sight in the intricate mazes of the woods.
The Kirtland of to day is not that of fortyyears ago- merely the shadow. The hun-
dreds of rude log houses that at one
time covered the hills and valleys, like
their inmates, have mostly disappeared.
The hum of industry has departed, and only
the occasional clink of a hammer of the
stroke of an axe may be heard where all
was once alive with the noise of trade and
manufacture. The aspect is one of general
retrogression, and the home of a thriving
colony is now the dwelling place of a few
hundred souls who seem in appearance the
fast dying remains of the lethargy which
surrounds them. The Mormon Temple,
alone tells the story of the past. On an
eminence facing the east, it rears its head
in solemn dignity above the surrounding
elevations and scattered wrecks of the
buildings it has survived, a weather-stained
relic of a former greatness- an inanimate
Marius on the ruins of Carthage. Above
the front entrances, which are reached by
two flights of broad stone steps, the gilded
inscription "Built by the Church of Jesus
Christ- 1834," still shines bright as ever,
but the original appearance of the walls out-
side has been wrought upon materially by
the wear and tear of the elements.
   When the Mormons left Kirtland, the
building fell into the hands of Grandison
Newell, a bitter and active persecutor of
the Church, who disposed of it for a few
hundred dollars to another, who in turn dis-
posed of it to some one else. It was pur-
chased finally by Joseph Smith jun., the
son of the martyred Prophet, in whose pos-
session it still remains, being used as a
place of worship by his followers. These
are called "Josephites," but call themselves
"True Latter-day Saints," in distinction to
the Latter-day Saints, or "Mormons," of
Utah, whom they regard in anything but
a spirit of brotherly kindness, as heretics
who have wandered into the wilderness
away from the standard of truth. Presi-
dent Young they call an usurper, and be-
cause he nobly shouldered the labors and
sorrows of a down-trodden people, and
pushed the work ahead under the most try-
ing circumstances of its history, instead of 
letting it lay aside for sixteen years waiting
for their jumping-jack ideal to spring from
his trap, consider him the personification
of all that is bad. The sect around Kirt-
land numbers but few, and are generally
despised by the other inhabitants, but
whether deservedly or not I am unable to
say. They oppose gathering, and are scatter-
ed from Dan  Beersheba, the headquarters
being at Plano, Ills., where the leader now
resides. According to their own accounts,
the glory of their evangelical achieve-
ments is something startling, o'ertopping
imagination- if imagination can o'ertop
itself. The Mormons of Utah are being
converted "en masse," acknowledge the
error of their ways, and on the word of
command from the Josephite leader will
rally around his standard. My informant,
the Superintendent of the Temple, after I
had expressed my open-mouthed surprise
(?) at being told things that a life of twenty-
two years in Salt Lake City had failed to 
apprise me of, was in his turn astonished
to hear that I was a recent arrival from
Utah, but with an admirable quickness he
regained his composure and told me these
things were great secrets. The work in
Utah was carried on very privately, no
Mormon having the least suspicion of it.
I was puzzled. My finite mind could not
grasp this problem, and dreading the fate
of Hugh Miller I determined to investi-
gate it no further. That system of religion
which can convert a man and keep it a
profound secret from him, is indeed "fear-
fully and wonderfully made."
   All who come to Kirtland explore the Tem-
ple and register their names, a nominal fee
being collected by the one who has charge
of the premises. On the first floor, where the
religious services are held, the walls are in
a tolerably good condition. The two rows
of pulpits with the letters designating the
grades of the Priesthood, face each other
from the opposite ends of the apartment,
and, excepting some of the seats, remain
in statu quo. The place is well furnished
with seats and facilities for  lighting up.
The rollers on the lofty ceiling show that
it was once divided by curtains, while
everything betrays a beautiful economy
and convenience of design and execution.
 On the next floor, to reach which we re-
turn to the hall and ascend a flight of stairs,
the walls and scanty furniture are in a bare
and shattered state. A placard informs us
that this was once the "School of the
Prophets;" but is now used, when permis-
sion is given, for school exhibitions, temper-
ance revivals, lectures, and other entertain-
ments requiring a room of its size. A no-
tice nailed to a pillar, after an "impartial"
and charitable (?) synopsis of Mormonism,
and a slur on its leader, announces that
"We (the Josephites) wish it distinctly un-
stood that we are no part of the L. D. S. of
Utah, we have nothing to do with them;
(and yet the mighty work of conversion
goes on) we are not Mormons."
   My cousins, who accompanied me on the
visit, had been bantering me heretofore,
on the supposition that the Salt Lake Mor-
mons and the Josephite faction were iden-
tical- an idea which is very general, not-
withstanding the announcement quoted
above- hence, in view of the decided aver-
sion in which they held the latter, it was
with a degree of satisfaction that I pointed
out this confirmatory evidence to my pre-
vious denial.
   We now ascended to the third floor, went
through a succession of small rooms con-
taining crippled benches, blackboards ruined
walls, and other paraphernalia which in-
dicated that at some period of the Temple's
history this part had been used as a pri-
mary school.
   After ascending to the belfry by a flight
of steps in the last stages of delirium trem-
ens, and taking a bird's eye view of the
surrounding country, we descended to the
office, registered our names and departed.
   Some others of the old buildings associa-
ted with the early history of the Mormon
Church, yet remain; among these are the
Kirtland bank, now occupied by a private
family,  and Gilbert and Whitney's old
store, still used for  original purposes and
wearing a look as solemn and equivocal as
a stepmother's invitation to dinner.
							IAGO. 
				[illegible signature]
-Salt Lake Herald.


FLOWERS.

	As every thread of gold is valuable, so is
every moment of time.
	KIND words do not cost much. They
never blister the tongue or lips, and we
have never heard of any mental trouble
arising therefrom.
	THE history of the world teaches this
that the only safe guide of a great intellect
is a pure heart; that evil no sooner takes
possession of the heart then folly commen
ces the conquest of the mind.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00; one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m, every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publishers WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.
SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 1, 1877.


VALEDICTORY.

	In announcing my exit from the editorial
department of THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT, I do
not feel that I am bidding its patrons and read-
ers "a long and sad farewell;" but hope, as a
contributor, to still communicate with them
occasionally.
	In consideration of the curiosity, and per-
haps anxiety, of my friends, personal and
otherwise, I give a brief explanation of my
reasons for withdrawing from public service
for the present. My general health is good,
but my head aad eyes need recruiting, and I
have decided to humor them. I have also de-
cided that during the years of my life which
may be properly devoted to the rearing of a
family, I will give my special attention to that
most important branch of "Home Industry."
Not that my interest in the public weal is di-
minishing, or that I think the best season of a
woman's life should be completely absorbed in
her domestic duties. But every reflecting
mother, and every true philanthropist, can see
the happy medium between being selfishly
home bound, and foolishly public spirited. At
least, I see the interjacence of which I speak,
and believe there is wisdom in choosing it. I
am content to give up all claim to the EXPO-
NENT, and to be released from further responsi-
bility concerning it, knowing as I do, that I
leave it in good hands.
	In conclusion, I will say to my sisters old
and young, let us subscribe for and write to
our little paper. Let us aid all we can to make
it more and more interesting and successful in
performing its mission.
	LULA GREENE RICHARDS.


TO PERSONAL FRIENDS.

	A second little daughter was born to me on
the 24th of June of this year. We named her
Mabel Greene. I was blest with her sweet,
happy presence only three weeks and three
days. Although to all appearance strong and
healthy from the first, she left us on the 18th
of July, afrer a few hours' suffering, to join
her sister and other blessed associates in the
spirit world.	LULA.


LABOR FOR ZION.

	Labor for Zion should be the motto of all
who have enlisted under the banner of the
Everlasting Gospel. This work should include
all labor temporal and spiritual, and is both
individual and general. While laboring for
Zion each one is attaining to his or her own
exalt-ation with the innumerable hosts of
Zion's workers in former and latter days.
	The terrible existing state of things at the
present time in this, the land of free govern-
ment, is indicative of the great calamities that


will and must necessarily precede the setting
up of God's kingdom upon the earth.
	Women profess to have great intuition, to be
particularly susceptible of impressions as re-
gards the future; if such is the case (and we
believe it is) then they should be wise in time,
and be practical in the movements to become
self-sustaining. The women of Utah have
been counseled to store up grain for Zion, a
mission of which they may justly be proud; a
mission such as women never before we think
received at any time upon the earth. And
now that the harvest is near, and the fields
ripening, it is time to take into wise consider-
ation what can be done to carry out this coun-
sel, and make careful and judicious preparation
for the future. Parties of ladies could be
formed for the especial purpose of gleaning
after the reapers. These might be made par-
ticularly pleasant, as well as profitable, if the
sisters entered into it with that zeal and en-
thusiasm they do into excursions merely for
recreation. Of course the sisters would under-
stand that leave must be obtained from own-
ers of fields, so that there would be no intru-
sion.
	There are very many branches, here in Zion,
of home work and industries, in which women
might be much more extensively engaged and
interested, even without neglecting domestic
duties. Women should be quick to compre-
hend the great advantages to be derived from
these home resources, all of which are a part of
the Political Economy of Our Mountain Home.


[Column 1]

HOME AFFAIRS.

	ELDER ORSON PRATT left Salt Lake City
for England July 18, and sailed from New
York for Liverpool July 31. He has gone thither
to superintend the publishing of the Book of
Mormon and Doctrine and Covenants in the
Phonetic Alphabet, which is about to be intro-
duced into general use in Utah.
	AT THIS warm season of the year, bathing is
a most healthful and delightful recreation. Salt
Lake is preferable to any other place of resort
and there is every facility now to make it plea-
sant and practicable. The Utah Western Rail-
road have so arranged the time as to suit all
who may be anxious to avail themselves of the
opportunity of these recuperating and exhilir-
ating baths. 
	WE WISH to call the attention of the sisters
to the Woolen Batting now for sale at the
Woman's Commission House, which is pre
ferable to cotton for all uses on account of its
being lighter, and puffy in appearance; also
the New Zealand Flax seed, which should be
thoroughly tested here, as it is very necessary to
have some home material for summer clothing.
	TO-DAY, July 27, we had a pleasant call from
Elders Martin Lenzi and Rulon S. Wells, re-
turned missionaries. They left Salt Lake City
Nov. 6, 1875, and proceeded almost direct to
Berne, Switzerland, by way of Liverpool.
They have labored during their absence in the
Swiss and German Mission, and have enjoyed
their labors exceedingly. They gave us some
entertaining accounts of that picturesque coun-
try, so celebrated for its beautiful mountain
and lake scenery. Br. Lenzi visited the place
of his birth in the village of Wallbach, Canton
of Aargau, Switzerland. In the very house
where he was born he feasted upon grapes
which grew upon its walls; he roamed over
the farm and through the gardens and forests
which were once his childhood's home. This
little village is about one hundred miles north-
east from Berne, and is in full view of the
Black Forest of Germany. We are pleased to

[Column 2]

welcome these brethren home in safety, feeling
they have filled their mission honorably.
	THE GRAND Sunday School Jubilee in honor
of the anniversary of the pioneer's entrance
into this valley, July 24th, thirty years since,
was a complete success. The music was grand
and inspiring; the songs were rendered with
spirit and feeling, harmonizing with the occa-
sion. President B. Young addressed the con-
gregation, giving them some items of church
history from its first organization. The Ruined
Cattage, by D. McKenzie, was touching, and
eloquently rendered. An address written by
Miss E. R. Snow was given by George F. An-
derson, who acquitted himself admirably on
the occasion. The Tabernacle was elaborately
decorated with flowers and evergreens, and the
thousands of children, with pleasant faces and
glad voices, singing praises and rejoicing, was
truly animating. Truly the saints have reason
to rejoice in the blessings of God upon their
labors, in converting the desert into a choice
and fruitful garden, where bloom the fairest
flowers in profusion, and children "full as it
can hold," and peace and prosperity crown
their days.
	THURSDAY MORNING, July 19th, President
Young and a select party of brethren and sis-
ters went to Ogden by special train, to attend
a meeting, in the Ogden Tabernacle, of the
Relief Societies of Weber Co. The Taberna-
cle was crowded to overflowing, the congrega-
tion being nearly all ladies—officers and mem-
bers of the various Relief Societies of Weber
Co. After the usual exercises, President
Young arose and stated that he had expected
to hear reports from the different societies, but
since his arrival had been informed that the 
meeting had been called expressly to receive
instructions from himself and the brethren.
He proceeded to instruct them upon the sub-
ject of health—how to avoid sickness, how
mothers should train their children; counseled
mothers to give them early lessons of faith and
principle; to teach them to believe implicitly
in God, and that He takes cognizance of every
act of their lives; that they are surrounded by
good angels, ministering spirits; and inculcate
in their hearts and minds a love of virtne,
honesty and truthfulness, and let their exam-
ple be in harmony with their precept and
the force of this education would have a bear-
ing upon their whole lives, when they should
go out from under the mother's influence. He
designated mothers as the moving iustrument
in the hands of Providence to guide the desti-
nies of nations, and exhorted mothers to teach
their children not to make war, but to teach
them peace; he asked the question, "Who
gives the key to the nations of the earth? It
is the mothers, it is not the fathers." In giv-
ing advice and counsel on minor points, he al-
luded to trifles and small things making up all
great matters, that our lives are full of little
incidents which make one great whole, one
vast experience; that the earth itself was com-
posed of little grains of sand. He referred to
the counsel he gave the sisters in regard to stor-
ing up wheat, with which he was pleased, and
spoke earnestly and emphatically on the sub-
ject of making our own hats and bonnets, also
hats for the brethren, and said that even in
this one class of manufacture we could save
tens of thousands of dollars; and that to save
money was more difficult than to earn it. He
urged upon the sisters the necessity of enter-
ing heart and soul into the home industries,
and to use their utmost influence with their
husbands to have them establish such institu-
tions and manufactories as would make this
people independent. His instructions were


most eloquent, full of pathos and fatherly
counsel, and if carried out in the lives of the
saints, would very soon make us not only
healthful and wealthy, but fit us for the socie-
ty of angels and sanctified beings.
 Elder Carrington in his remarks dwelt at
some length upon fashion, which to him, he
said, was a myth, he asked no odds of Mrs.
Grundy; felt that it was beneath the dignity
of a saint to follow the fashions of Babylon;
exhorted the sisters to make their own fash-
ions; said that some of the sisters were ahead
of the brethren in many good things.  President
Wells, in the course of his remarks, said he
had long conceded woman was a power in the
earth, and he hailed these organizations of the
sisters as a harbinger of good results, carrying
with it as it did an influence more manifest
than in times past.  That woman was an in-
dispensable helpmeet to man, and should occu-
py that position in all practical work in build-
ing up the kingdom of God, as well as in spir-
itual work and exaltation; said that the saints
of God should learn to govern and controlthemselves according to the laws that govern
our being, and the principles of life and salva-
tion.  Elder John Taylor said there were more
women present than was usual to meet; he al-
luded to woman's faith, referred to the counsel
which a woman gave to the rich man whom
the Savtor told to go and dip seven times in
Jordan; he felt it was too little a thing, but the
woman had faith and intuition, and by listen-
ing to her he was healed through obedience.
Spoke of obeying the laws of life and health,
to preserve our lives to the age of a tree, and
alluded to the manner in which children were
brought up in the aristocrat families of Europe,
and said as saints we ought to be more particu-
lar in the training of our children than the
people of the world are, and pray God ever to
help us.  President Young then gave some
wise and practical instructions concerning the
mission of sericulture, which had been given
to the sisters, and told them it was a way in
which they could make money for their own
use.  Talked a little more about dress; said
that our time was all we could call our own,
we should have to give an account of it, and
therefore we should use it to the best possible
advantage, in assisting to build up the king-
dom of God upon the earth.  Elder Franklin
D. Richards arose and made a few closing re-
marks; requested in behalf of Mrs. Richards,
president of Weber County societies, that these
societies would prepare a quarterly report of
the condition of each society and its financial in-
terests, to be read there three months from that
time, to which time that meeting was  en-
tering more fully and earnestly into the work
of home industries and helping to become self
sustaining, a request was made for them to rise
to their ieet: to which every one in the room
responded gladly.
	Altogether the day was one of rejoicing,
everything passing off pleasantly.  The good
people of Ogden were most profuse in hospi-
tality to those who came from other places,
and there were so many good things said for
the encouragement of women in stepping for-
ward to assist in building up Zion, that we
could only wish that all the world could have
heard it.  Mormon women should surpass the
women of the world in good works, for they
are in the enjoyment of the wisest counsel, and
it is to be hoped they will carry it out in their
lives and transmit to posterity a heritage of
good deeds, more precious than gold or gems.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
 Allow me, a stranger here in your really
beautiful city, to acknowledge a very great
pleasure recently afforded me at your pleasant
and cosy office—that of meeting, by request
and my own desire, the several intelligent
ladies who had there assembled to discuss mat-
ters pertaining to health, its physiological
laws, and the penalty of a perversion of them.
To me the theme has ever been fraught with
intense interest, and in importance paramount
to all other subjects, especially where woman
is concerned; and the sad fact that women in
general give it less attention than any other, is
to me a source of deep regret.  Hence, I repeat,
my delight to find here intelligent ladies earn-
estly engaged in the study of medicine, the
various organic weaknesses and complaints of
females, their prevention and cure.  The one
desire, seemingly, of gaining all possible use-
ful information calculated to enable them to
inaugurate a better system or understanding of
the laws of health, so that those possessing it
may preserve, and those suffering from its loss
find relief and restoration.  To find ladies thus
usefully engaged is truly gratifying in the ex-
treme, and manifests the true noble woman,
such as "The Allwise Creator" intended. Itis not only a proof of their commendable am-
bition, but noble, pure desires, and interest in
the welfare of their sex, mentally, physically
and morally; for if health be preserved, the
happy possessor is less liable to the many
short-comings of a disease physical and men-
tal.  A diseased mind is often the result of a
diseased body, and the errors often committed
can with certainty be traced to this the first
and true cause.  This being the case, how im-
portant that we seek to preserve and fully ap-
preciate this most choice of blessings, health,
which our Heavenly Father has vouchsafed us.
	In the matter and manner of dress alone for
its effects upon health, there offers much for
thought and discussion.  Many "dress-reform-
ers" have earnestly labored to invent and in-
troduce certain costumes, which they claim to
be more healthful, at least more comfortable,
all bearing merit; but for various reasons they
have not been adopted, except by a few. I
have myself given the subject much thought,
and the result has been the invention of several
articles and appliances, some of which I have
had patented.  I have sought to improve upon
those heretofore offered for the purpose, and to
have such as would be the most perfect possi-
ble, affording comfort and relief to my suffer-
ing sex, and have the assurance of not having
striven in vain.  Among the various useful ar-
ticles and appliances I have, I purpose making
special mention of two, that should come into
general use.  Such as every lady should con-
sider indispensable.  The first is a "Health
Corset," having a combination of skirt-sup-
porter and shoulder-straps.  It is also entirely,
wholly free from front steels or clasps, so inju-
rious to females, and is in every way a health-
ful article of dress.  This corset, supporting as
it does the weight of clothing to, or from the
shoulder, is also so arranged as to prevent not
only the weight but heat, so injurious, caused
by so many folds of clothing resting upon the
spine. The importance of removing both the
heat and weight cannot be too earnestly advo-
cated; for it is these which occasion a weak-
ness, often difficult to overcome by the most
united efforts.  This corset, though loosely
worn and free from steels, improves the figure,
and is all that any lady requires.  The other
article referred to is simply a skirt-supporter,
which may be worn with or without a corset,
and which is a most perfect and valuable arti-
cle.  It is also inexpensive, an article that
every lady will feel able to avail herself of.
The weight of clothing is by this article borne


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		37


OBITUARY.

	Died in Salt Lake City, July 3d, 1877, after
a lingering illness, of Liver complaint, Mrs.
Ann Edmunds, daughter of Johnathan and 
Amy Brunning, and wife of Francis Edmunds
of this city. Deceased was born in Wangford,
Suffolk Co., England, July 29, 1822; embraced
the Gospel in May, 1849, and emigrated to Utah
in 1868, where she has lived the life of a true
Saint. She was the mother of thirteen chil-
dren, eight of whom are still living, and eight
grandchildren. She has filled faithfully, for a
number of years, the office of teacher in the 
branch of the Relief Society of the Tenth
Ward, and her kind words of counsel and min-
istering hand will be sadly missed by those
with whom she associated. Though great the
bereavement in consigning her to the silent
grave, we have the assurance that her good
works will live after her.			M. P.
Died, in Harrisville Ward, Weber County,
Utah, on Tuesday morning, June 12th, 1877, of
heart disease, Margaret Parkinson. wife of
Richard Daniels Brown. She was born May
12th 1811, at Lamberhead Green near Wigan-
Lancashire, England; married Sept. 30th, 1830,
at Hindley Church near Wigan. She embraced
the gospel in the Manchester Conference, Eng-
land, June 9th, 1850.
	She was the mother of seventeen children;
the first five dying in infancy, and two subse-
quently. The ten surviving ones have all
come to these valleys, and there are fifty-seven
grandchildren. Her love for her children is
known by her severe exposures and ardent toil
for their comfort in the midst of her impover-
ished surroundings, and her sacrifices are in-
delibly stamped with her love and fidelity to her
holy religion. Her door has always been
opened for the reception of God's saints and
servants; and at six different times she aided
her children to go from her parental care to
gather to Zion. In the fall of 1864 her longing
desires were gratified by gathering with her
husband and remaining little ones to the bosom
of the church.  In the fall of 1865 they settled
in Harrisville, and in April 17, 1865, she joined
and was set apart as a teacher of the Relief So-
ciety organization of this place.
She was in the enjoyment of moderate health
to the day of her death, which was very sud-
den. Her youngest son going to her room at
quarter past six o'clock a. m., to ascertain the 
reason she did not arise as usual, found her
dead in bed, her husband being on a visit to 
his daughter in Cache Valley at the time.
	She died as though she was enwrapt in
balmy sleep, and without an apparent struggle;
thus passed off a faithful saint, a loving wife
and an affectionate mother to sleep in Christ,
to await the morning of the first ressurrection.
	The funeral services were held on Thursday,
June 14th, 1877. The Bishop, his counselors
and a large concourse of relatives and friends
were assembled at her funeral, and consoling
remarks were made; a very large procession
followed her remains to the grave. 
				MELISSA A. SHURTLIFF,
					Pres't Relief Society.
				JOSEPHINE TAYLOR, Sec'y.
	[Deseret News and Millennial Star please
copy.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

RECENT MISSION OF THE ELDERS
IN THE MIDDLE STATES.

	Elder Henry Grow, who returned from
his mission to the states June 12th, left
Salt Lake Lake City Nov. 1st, 1876, having
been appointed to preside over the Penn-
sylvania Mission; he arrived in Philadel-
phia Nov. 6. He went directly to the resi-
dence of his nieces Mrs. Rapp and Mrs.
Knipe; was kindly received by them, and
during his sojourn in the east made that
his home. These two ladies were also very
hospitable to Elder A. M. Musser and other
elders whom Elder Grow invited there
from time to time; though they did not re-
ceive the Gospel they were very liberal in
their views, and kind and generous in feel-
ing.
	Br. Grow traveled, visiting the different
branches, through Montgomery, Schuylkill,
Luzerne and Lancaster Counties. In Cris-
sona, Schuylkill Co., Elder Grow preached
in Odd Fellows Hall to a very large audi-
ence one evening, the next in Shenandoah,
and the following one in Lower Marion,
each time to large audiences, and the peo-
ple seemed to pay good attention. At Fish-
beck, Montgomery Co., where he preached
also, he had relatives residing; Wm. G.
Smith, a nephew, and family entertained
himself and the elders hospitably. Br.
Grow has four sisters living in Pennsylva-
nia, their children and grandchildren and
numerous other more distant relatives;
they all treated him very kindly and were
anxious to have him stay with them; he
also met many old acquaintances and school-
fellows, and made many new friends dur-
ing his stay in that country; through the
influence of his relatives and friends he
was introduced to many influential and
worthy people, with whom he conversed on
the subject of the Gospel, the interests of
Utah, her political and social condition, etc.
There was not much chance to preach, such
a spirit of opposition was manifest among
the masses, those who have no real under-
standing of Mormonism or its bearings. Br.
Grow visited relatives of Bishop Edward
Hunter in West Chester, Penn., and had a
pleasant interview with them. One of
Elder Grow's sisters, who was in poor
health, believed his testimony and received
it, and was anxious for baptism, but died
very shortly after his arrival, without hav-
ing the opportunity to be baptized. On
her deathbed she expressed the wish to
have the ordinance of baptism, and all other
work that could be done for her, adminis-
tered by proxy. Elder Grow is under the
impression that there has been some good
seed sown in that state during the mission
of the elders recently, that will in time
spring up and bear fruit.
	The Philadelphia and other newspapers
published some considerable of the elders
and their mission in that country, which of
course was something of an advertisement
for them.
	Elder A. M. Musser called upon us and
expressed himself as having had a pleasanttime in most respects, yet there was very
little opportunity to preach the Gospel, and
none whatever in Philadelphia. The people
are most anxious to learn something of the
lives of Mormon women, the Woman Ques-
tion being a popular one at the present
time.
	Elders Musser, Grow and Whitney have
published some pamphlets at their own ex-
pense, and circulated them very largely
through that country, showing forth the
faith and practices of our people. Below
we publish Elder Musser's own statement

[Column 2]

concerning the mission of himself and the
elders who went east last fall.
	"The elders sent to Pennsylvania, Dela-
ware and New Jersey at last fall Confer-
ence, reached their fields of labor in Novem-
ber. Most of them had relatives I find in
these states, by whom they were kindly
received and treated. A good many of
these, it is believed, were awakened to the
belief that there was something in "Mor-
monism" worthy of their sincere attention.
A great deal of group-preaching was done,
there being but few opportunities to hold
public meetings, because of the great pred-
judice of the clergy and others who had
the control of churches and meeting houses.
When ministers of all denominations come
to Utah they are invited to preach in our
pulpits to large and attentive audiences,
but these courtesies are rarely reciprocated
by the clergy abroad, because of their big-
otry and narrowness. In some places halls
were obtained by the elders paying the
rent. No one would tolerate preaching in
a private dwelling house, and rarely were
schoolhouses available, for the reason that
the trustees were also religious bigots.
Some of the elders were fortunate in find-
ing openings here and there for holding
discussions and public meetings, but sel-
dom could they obtain the same place the
second time. Some 4000 pamphlets and
circular letters were gratuitously distribut-
ed during the spring months of the current
year, and it is believed that before many
days the gratifying results of the prayers,
faith, zeal and love that inspired their dis-
tribution will be seen. The printed word,
thus cast upon the waters, was composed to
especially meet the needs of the people
who were being surfeited with anti-Mor-
mon perversions concerning our people and
their practices of the most glaring kind.
The public mind had been deeply embit-
tered by the monstrous falsehoods widely
circulated by the N. Y. Herald and all the
sub-prints of the country.
	"It is truly encouraging to witness the
self-sacrificing disinterested devotion of
the elders to preach the Gospel, in the face
of the wide-spread odium everywhere over-
shadowing the noble people of Utah. No
money could induce them to undertake
such missions. It is solely the sense of duty
which they owe to their fellow-man that
impels them to take their lives in their
hands, and without "purse or scrip" or at
their own personal expense, go abroad to
proclaim liberty to the captives of sin and
Satan by showing them how they can get
back into the presence and favor of God,
from whence all mankind has been ban-
ished."


[Column 1]
			VARIED THOUGHTS.

	As each day dawns, and we rise from our
beds of quiet repose, refreshed by the sweet
restorer sleep—how manifold are our
thoughts and how strangely varied! What
more rapid than untrammeled thought?
Worlds, in imagination, are created and
castles built, only to be torn down and cast
away, there to lie may be, in utter forget-
fulness.
	Sometimes on the wild wings of thought,
we are borne aloft to dizzy heights from
whence we are loth to return, and return-
ing, we find stern reality, a reminder of
what we are, and whither we are tending.
	Each day as we mingle with our fellow
beings, lessons of wisdom are constantly
before us, and it remaining with our better
judgment if we accept or refuse.
	The most daring may falter and fall by

[Column 2]
the way-side because of a want of true mor-
al courage; the most worthy and energetic
have often their efforts blunted and una-
vailing, because of some untoward circum-
stance over which they had not control, and
sometimes for the want of encouragement
and a helping hand, sink to rise no more.
	Thus in life, our highest, noblest aims,
fondest wishes are blighted and unrealized
—leaving us to conclude, that at best, we
are but creatures of circumstances.
	Yesterday, myriads of contending
thoughts filled me with joy and sorrow
alike the disposing causes before me, and
to-day, yielding to the better counselor, my
mind has been serenely calm. It is not my
wont to seek sorrow, nor would I turn aside
from those over whose heads hang dark
threatening clouds, but rather abide, if
need be, and share the sorrow and heed
the lesson it teaches. True, we instinct-
ively shrink from gloom and if left to
choice, would choose ever that which glad-
dens. Sorrows and afflictions are often
blessings in disguise, and 'twere better
even to suffer deeply and learn sympathy,
than to escape and not be able to feel for
those who do. We should be able to ex-
claim with Pope,

		"Help me to feel for others, love
			Each selfish sorrow less,
		That mercy I to others show
			Reflected happiness shall bless."

	If we sought always our own good, our
own happiness, how selfish indeed we
should be, and how narrowed our efforts
and aims. We truly fulfill the design of
our creation when we thus pervert it.
	When I remember that the world is full
of beauty created for our enjoyment by
Him, the great artist and designer, the
maker and controller of the bright starry
firmament on high, the earth, and seas and
all that in them is! how insignificant seems
ever our most lofty aspirations, and how
worse than folly our repinings. Should we
not rather bow in humility and thankful-
ness for His many mercies vouchsafed us,
assured that all is for the best.

	"What though dark clouds around us rise,
		And tempests round us gather?
	The thunderbolt which cleaves the skies
		Will bring us fairer weather.
	What though the force of fire and flood
		Makes life a scene of trial?
	God meant that man should find his good
		In paths of self denial.

	This world with all its toil and strife,
		Is nature's royal college,
	Where all the pains and ills of life
		Become our guide to knowledge.
	Up frowning steeps, down gloomy vales,
		Toward the grave descending,
	They lead us on, till death unveils
		A world of life unending.

	There are no ills by mortals borne,
		But blessings underlie them;
	No human heart by sorrows worn,
		But reaps advantage by them;
	No sickness, sorrow, pain and sighs,
		But are of heaven's designing;
	And not a cloud obscures the skies,
		But has a silver lining.
	Where rolls the wave of sin and strife,
		There streams of truth are flowing;
	Where thorns beset the path of life,
		There flowers are ever growing,
	Where clouds obscure the sun from sight,
		A rift the light is making;
	The darkest hour of all the night
		Is when the day is breaking."

	Such assurances as these are as cheering
as true, and we have but to press forward
hopefully, continually striving. Our
thoughts, desires and utterances, should
tend to all that is fine and elevating, so
that as designed, we may view and enjoy
to perfection all in this world, and at last


be worthy the sublimity and never ending
beauty, the promised joys of that which is
to come.
								H.
—Argus.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CRITICISM ON "WOMAN AND HER
				ERA."

MY DEAR MADAME:
	Allow me to return to you that priceless
book "Woman and her Era" with many
thanks. You ask me to give a few criti-
cisms on the work. This is beyond me,
for all criticism is lost in admiration!
For erudition, breadth of thought, sound
logic, and fine language, this work, in my
opinion, surpasses all writings on the wo-
man question.
The best expression of my opinion of
"Woman and her Era" should be intro-
duced into all female educational establish-
ments as a class book. * Students in every
art seek eagerly the most beautiful models,
knowing that on the perfection of the mode
their own perfection greatly depends.
Now the woman revealed to our con-
sciousness by Mrs. Farnham, is so truth-
fully perfect in every outline, that a mo-
ment's contemplation suffices to inspire
even the frivolous with a desire to approxi-
mate, if not equal its exqusite harmonies;
and we know that desire is the mother of
effort. An extract from Mr. Buckle im-
pressed me so much that I felt impelled to
make a little commentary upon it, which I
submit to your opinion. He says "our
greatest admiration should be reserved, not
for those who make the discoveries, but for
those who show HOW to make these discov-
eries." He continues to demonstrate all
that this real conviction of truth which
solves great problems before poets prove
them, belong to the deductive, or as I
think we may term it—the inspirational
form of reason,—according to Mr. Buckle,
this is the highest method of reasoning,
approaching to the Divine! In proof of
this he cites the numerous discoveries
which have emanated from the inspiration
of a woman instead of being slowly ap-
proached by a collection of facts—the in-
ductive method. Facts are necessary to
prove a truth, but they often fail to discover
it. Now this writer (and in this assertion
he is supported by all who have studied
the subject) asserts that woman reasons
wholly by the deductive method, and that
she has unknowingly, very much aided hu-
man progress by keeping fact-seeking in-
ductive man even against his will, on the 
threshold of inspiration's Temple from
whence ever and again would flash a ray of
light irradiating for a moment the dark-
ened Universe, dissolving to man's groping
vision a glimpse of the abode of Truth.
Inspiration is the highest form of reason,
and woman is essentially inspirational!
What a vista of a glorious possibility this
reveals. When freedom, legal and social,
enables woman to be truly a woman, a
highly endowed, responsible being,—not an
ornamental chattel; when a right education
trains her to ascend undaunted the steps of
inspiration's altar, to gaze upon the ra-
diant light ever glowing there, with an eye
calm and undazzled, when with a strong
arm she throws open wide the doors of
that glorious Temple, flooding the world
with the light of truth; then may we look
for regeneration, then will man enlight-
ened, exalted, and consequently purified,
become "like unto God!"
	But the prejudice of centuries cries out,
if woman is endowed with the highest

[Column 2]
reasoning method, why has she not found a
place in the ranks of discoveries? Why,
now that the professions are open to her
does she not more distinguish herelf? Why
indeed!
	These objections are easily answered.
There are three reasons, each one sufficient
to prevent the realization of woman's
grandest possibility. First, consider her
treatment for ages—forbidden to think,
how could she develop reason? Forced to
consider herself an inferior, and despise as
weaknesses her most divine gifts; was it
likely she could cultivate these gifts; under
such conditions?—To this day woman is
heavily shackled—true, brilliant-hued flow-
ers, gold and jewels sometimes hide the
chains, but the chains and their dismal
clanking is heard at every step that woman
takes. Intellectual power, the heart's tru-
est emotions, yea even the aspirations of
her soul have been, and still are fettered so
long, so cruelly fettered, that many cannot
live without their chains, and if man shews
an inclination to set her free, she rebinds
herself and her sisters—binds them hand
and foot to the iron pillar of custom, and
gives the key of the same to Mrs. Grundy,
than whom no jailor was ever more cruel!
What then can be expected of faculties
thus cramped, benumbed, palsied, atrophied;
can they instantly regain their tone and
compete with faculties that throughout ages
have enjoyed every favorable condition and
impetus? Nature answers No!
The professions are now opened to wo-
men; granted—but look at the entrances to
them. The enchanted palaces of malevo-
lent genii were not more difficult of access.
Thorns, spears, fire and taunts await the
bold invader. Yet woman has braved all
these! with super-human courage she has
trodden down the thorns, smiled at the
taunts, and thrust aside the weapons. But
who can chronicle the horror her sensitive
nature has endured, the soul shrinkings,
the concealed agonies of those glorious pio-
neers!
	Woman's position to-day is one of war-
fare; all her energies and her faculties are
concentrated to resist the enemies infinite
in number. Her vision, instead of contem-
plating the beauties of truth is ever on the
alert for an attack. Thus the force that
should enable her to soar to the highest
realms of genius is expended in fighting
those, who by all that is sacred in nature,
should be her helpers and protectors.
The third reason is in woman herself. The
idea of woman's inferiority, has been so
strenuously inculcated, so continually reit-
erated, that the women whose motto is
"Excelsior" imagine that mentally they
must become men. Fatal error!! to attain,
or rather to descend to the masculine stand-
ard, these women with a heroism and for-
titude truly feminine, endeavor to crush
their spiritual nature, to stifle their god-
like affections, to bandage their exquisite
perceptions, thus losing all their high pre-
rogatives.	*
That woman has endured the ordeal of
scorn, of ridicule, of sensuality, with its
vile jokes, of the not mis-named finishing
process, and yet to-day can show the bril-
liant array of pure, noble, self-sacrificing,
intellectual, inspired women, the boast our 
civilization, is proof enough of the great-
ness of woman! And that she has brought
to her feet her worst libelers, supplicating
her help to raise them to the higher plane
on which she stands, proves her power.
That she has gladly stretched forth her
hand to these her enemies without one word
of reproach, demonstrates her divine possi-
bilities.—Enslaved, insulted, buffetted,

[Column 3]
mocked, * yet the aureole of Divinity still
beams upon her brow to guide man heaven-
ward.
				MARIE AGNESE WALSH.
	S. L. City, April, 1877.


HYGENIC NOTES.

	Sleep is the Best Stimulant.—The best possi-
ble thing for a man to do, when he feels too weak
to carry anything through, is to go to bed and 
sleep as long as he can. This is the only recuper-
ation of brain power, the only recuperation of
brain-force; because during sleep the brain is in a
state of rest, in a condition to receive and appro-
priate nutriment from the blood.  The supply of 
new brain-substance can be had only from the 
blood, which it obtains from the food eaten pre-
viously; and the brain can best receive and appro-
priate to itself nutritive substance during a state of
sleep. Mere stimulants supply nothing in them-
selves; they goad the brain, and force it to a great-
er consumption of its substance, until it is so ex-
hausted that there may not be power enough left
to receive a supply.
	Breathing through the Mouth.—Catlin taught
the world the importance of shutting the mouth
and breathing through the nose. It would seem
that his little book entitled "Shut your Mouth"
is bearing fruit in Germany, where new thoughts
receive more attention from physicians than any-
where else in the world. Respiration by the
mouth is easier than by the nose, but not so safe.
The nose to a certain extent fits the air for enter-
ing the lungs. The sense of smell warns us 
against breathing an air loaded with poisonous
vapors. The moisture of the nasal cavities to
some extent saturates the air and makes it less ir-
ritating to the throat and larynx. The mucous of
the nasal passage and the hairs catch the dust be-
fore it goes far enough to harm. On the other
hand, breathing through the mouth dries the
throat, and in children may cause false croup, ca-
tarrh, aud it may so affect the Eustachian tube as
to cause injury to the ear and deafness.


HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	To Preserve Fruit for Years.—Take wide-
mouthed bottles and fill them with currants, cher-
ries, gooseberries, raspberries, or strawberries.
Cover the mouths with thin muslin, and place
them in a kettle of warmish water, not above the
necks of the bottles. Place them over the fire,
and boil for twenty minntes after the water first
bubbles. Now take them out and cork tightly,
putting sealing-wax made of resin and tallow—
two parts resin to one of tallow—all over the
corks and necks of the bottles. Set them in a 
cool dry closet in a cellar, heads downward, and
the fruit will retain its flavor perfectly.
	Cauliflower Salad.—Boil a cauliflower in salted
water till tender, but not overdone; when cold cut
it up neatly in small sprigs. Beat np together
three tablespoonfuls of oil and one tablespoonful
of tarragon vinegar, with pepper and salt to taste;
rub the dish very slightly with garlic, arrange the
pieces of cauliflower on it, strew over them some
capers, a little tarragon, chervil, and parsley, all
finely minced, and the least bit of dried thyme and 
marjoram powdered. Pour the oil and vinegar
over, and serve.


PARTIAL culture runs to the ornate; ex-
treme culture to simplicity.
	"I do not wish your assertions to pass for
truth, madame." "You can easily prevent
it, sir, by repeating them yourself."
	"I can't say I admire your style of act-
ing," said a landlady to a strolling player,
when he ran away without paying his bill.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


For the EXPONENT.
A WORD TO THE YOUNG PEOPLE
OF ZION.

	Do we as Latter-day Saints, as sons and 
daughters of God, do we realize, and feel
sufficiently thankful for the blessings we
enjoy? Do we fully understand why we 
were placed here upon this earth? Was it
to spend out time in idleness, or in a light
and frivolous manner? Was it to employ
ourselves in quarreling one, with another,
in slandering our neighbors, and in dis-
obeying the commands of God by violating
the Sabbath and profaning His Holy Name?
No! Heaven forbid that we should waste
our valuable time in such a manner. We
were sent here to improve ourselves, to 
store our minds with useful knowledge,
that we may become refined and educated
men and women. And yet do we not often,
very often speak in a sneering way about
our neighbors—say things about them that
are liable to injure them in the estimation
of others? Do we not sometimes violate
the Sabbath? Often in what we consider
very trifling matters, nevertheless, it is a 
sin, little as we think it.
	Have we not all heard the name of the
Lord profaned? do we not know how des-
picable a person is who takes the name of
God in vain? How can we think that He
will bless us, how can we expect him to
give us what we ask for when we are every
day, yes, every hour, breaking his com-
mandments? For does not the good Book
say, "The prayer of the wicked availeth
nothing?" Therefore, let us seek to im-
prove and cultivate ourselves, and try to do
right in all our transactions with our fellow-
creatures, obey our parents and teachers,
and by so doing we will gain the love and
respect of all who know us, and also, what
is of more worth than the greatest of
worldly honors, the approbation of God our
Father.
	CHARLOTTE M. MAXWELL.
Spring Valley, Nevada, July 13, 1877.


WOMAN'S VOICE.

 If we attain the position of true mothers
in Israel we will have a great deal to ac-
complish.  In a family capacity we have
our children to watch over and teach.
Mothers never think your boys and girls
too old to be taught and instructed; we can
teach them a great deal by example; never
say or do in the presence of your children
what you would not like to see in them.
Teach them the principles of the Gosepl by
example as well as precept; let them un-
derstand when they are eight years old that
it is their duty to be baptized for the re-
mission of their sins, and become mem-
bers in the Church of Jesus Christ.  Teach
them to be strictly honest and truthful.
Teach your children the law of tithing, and 
let them see you observe it in every partic-
ular yourself. Sisters of the Relief Society,
these are small things, but they are of
great importance.  Do we not all wish our
children to be saved in the Kingdom of
God? Then let us lay the foundation for
them to build upon.
 As mothers in Israel, we should also be
mindful of our duties in our ward districts;
to watch over and care for the poor and
aged; let us render all possible assistance
wherever it is needed.  Comfort those who
are called to mourn, and be always ready
to lend a helping hand to the weak. We
need not go far from home to seek for op-
portunities to do good.  I know the major-


ity of the sisters are striving to do the best
they can, and without doubt, we have
among us the best people on the face of the
earth; but still, sometimes I think we
could improve very greatly in some respects.
We should be charitable toward each other,
if we find one weak in faith, try to
strengthen that one, and show by our ac-
tions that we are willing to help them
along. Let us cease fault-finding, and light
speaking and everything that has the ap-
pearance of evil. Let our light so shine
that all may see we are of a truth mothers
in Israel.
	I think every mother should have the
EXPONENT in her house, I read it with
pleasure and wish it success.
	MARTHA WILLIAMS.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	WE are doing a great work, if some few
thoughtless or unreflecting women are
awakened to definite views and higher
ambitions and braver efforts.
		—Prof. Maria Mitchell.
	EVERY opportunity for new insight into
truth must be valued, for what is genius
but the awakened soul? the universa with 
in finding recognition without. These bene-
ficial to society are people who help persons
to attain that measure of being of which
they are capable.
		—Mary N. Adams.
	LET us give to women such training,
physically, industrially, intellectually and
spiritually, that we shall shame the words
"superfluous" out of the vocabulary as de-
scriptive of women. And this will help
men, and elevate them, quite as much as
any special work which might be done for
them.
		—Mary A. Livermore.


<til paymentsjan="" be.="" made,="" monthly,="" quart="" fcrjyi="" of,="" six="" monthly."="" priceq'lo="" and="" no="" interest="" charged.,="" send="" to="" lia="" for="" catalogue="" further="" information.="" ‘="" ,="" ywomansinommirfsion<="" i'!‘ttouse="" vi="" ()="" 1(="" v="" t="" yn!‘=""> PIANOS& ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
			           for five years, on
                                     INSTALMENTS
                                  OF ONE, TWO OR
                                      THREE YEARS
       Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
   monthly. Prices low and no interest charged.  Send to
us for catalogue and further information. 
								CALDER & CARELESS.

               		WOMAN'S COMMISSION HOUSE
                 IS NOW FURNISHED WITH A VARIETY OF
                               WOOLEN GOODS,
                                     SUCH AS
TWEEDS, JEANS,
   DOE-SKINS, WATERPROOFS,
      FLANNELS, LINSEYS,
         BLANKETS, SHAWLS,
            LADIES' JACKETS,
              STOCKINGS, YARNS,
                 SOCKS, GLOVES, WRISTLETS,
                   LATEST STYLES OF
                      FANCY WORSTED TIES,
   Men's Knitted Undershirts, Damask Bed Spreads, Rag
Carpet, Felt and Straw Hats, Fancy Articles, Shoes,
Satchels, Cotton Yarn, Brushes, Brooms, Butter, Cheese,
Eggs, Flour, Canned Fruits, Tomato Catsup, Cider Vine-
gar, Candies, Table Salt, Tiny Trunks, Tiny Bureaus,
Spoo[-] Stands, Laundry Blueing, Soaps, Inks, Shoe Black-
ing, Concentrated Lye, Silver Plating, Pottery Ware,
Clothes Pins, Neatsfoot Oil, Glue,
R. Matthews & Co's Essence of Jamaica Ginger
Morgan's Honey, Iron Brackets made from native ore
      Door Mats, Toy Table and Spool Stands, Sole
	  Leather and other  Trunks, Gents' Fine
             Shirts and Woolen Overshirts, Fine
                  Table Salt, Band Boxes and
                              Dixie Cotton 	
          HOME-MADE WOOLEN BATTING,
                NEW ZEALAND FLAX SEED. 	

				DAVID JAMES,
               (Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
             Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
                              AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
             Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responded to.
    Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City. 

			F. AUERBACH & BRO.
      55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
				 - : 0 : -
              Wholesale and Retail Dealers in
                       Staple and Fancy
			   DRY GOODS,
Millinery Goods, Shapes, Flowers, Ornaments, Etc.,
   Men's and Boys' Clothing, Hats and Caps, Boots
     and Shoes, Ladies' Cloaks and Furs, Notions,
                     Pipes, Cutlery, Etc., 
Our Prices will be as low as the lowest, Wholesale Buy-
     ers will find the Best Assortment and Bottomo Prices at
     the Old Fashioned House.

			     THE FINE ARTS. 
	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G.M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are put at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
		Send your orders to		C.R. SAVAGE,
							Salt Lake City, Utah. 

				Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Invites her patrons, the Ladies of Salt Lake and vici-
nity to call and inspect her New Stock of Fall and Winter
Goods, having the Largest assortment in all branches of
Millinery of any house in town.
 Ladies favoring her with a call, will find the latest
Parisian Modes and most Modern Fashions of America in
her Emporium.  Do not forget
					17 East Temple street.
		 TEMPLE OF FASHION. 
    Ladies attending Conference will do well to give her a 
call.

				  Z. C. M. I. 
                 Wholesale and Retail Dealing
                              in all kinds of
        DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
            HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
               GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
                   STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
              AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

			      TEASDEL'S
    THE FAVORITE AND POPULAR HOUSE
                       FOR THE LADIES,
  AND NOTED FOR THE REGULATION OF
     LOW PRICES IN FAMILY GROCERIES,
       DRESS GOODS, PROVISIONS, Etc.

                           H. DINWOODEY
         WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
                              FURNITURE
          SPRINGS BEDS, WIRE MATTRESES,
                    Feathers, Wall Paper
                                   AND
                       BABY CARRIAGES.
      75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

