Education for Family Life
FAMILY RELATIONSHIPS Lesson 8 My Home Is My Refuge
IS my home my refuge, my haven of peace and happiness? If my answer is in the affirmative, I am numbered among the more fortunate. If my answer is in the negative, I should ask myself why, and what I can do about it. According to Webster, a refuge is a shelter or protection from danger or distress; a stronghold which protects by its strength, or a sanctuary which secures safety by its sacredness; a place inaccessible to an enemy. The trend of civilization, as we have suggested before, has been from the natural to the artificial, from the simple to the complex, until we now are living in a world of stress and strain, of speed and greed that is causing no little concern as to how much more the nervous system of the human individual can stand. Of this we are certain, we must provide sanctuaries wherein one may gain occasional surcease from the strenuousness of modern living. The home and the church are the two institutions in society which are peculiarly adapted to serve as harbors of peace and security. What is a home? Dr. Ernest R. Groves says: "Don't find fault with your home unless you know what a home is for. A good home is not merely a place to be comfortable. It is the house that furnishes comforts, and a home is more than a house. The house originated from the need of physical comforts. The windbreak hut and cave were found good places to go to when the storm broke. "The home came differently. It started to satisfy human need. Service was its basis. The house sheltered the family. The home WAS the family. It was the working together of the different members of the family for the welfare of all. "The house is for comfort, the home for character-building. The trouble with many people who have unhappy homes is that they attempt to have the pleasures of a well managed house and none of the obligations of a home." It is not our purpose to discuss the house aspect of the home further than to say that the house we live in, whether it be a one-room apartment or a palace, must be orderly and well kept; it must reflect the care and attention of one who has a love of home. Would that all might be in a position to enjoy the modern comforts and conveniences that science has made available for the house. But in the name of happiness in family living, would that none might be made unhappy because of the lack of luxuries. Most of us must accumulate slowly and at the price of the denial of many other wants the conveniences that go to make an ideally equipped modern house. It is far wiser to wait and sacrifice and accumulate slowly than to buy beyond one's income. This very struggle shared by husband and wife will bring joy and satisfaction, 140 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
especially if both have the attitude toward home expressed by J. Hamilton: "A cottage, if God be there, will hold as much happiness as might stock a palace." If our home is to be our refuge, it will be because of the nature of the human relationships and not because of the physical aspects. Again we quote from Hamilton: "Six things are requisite to create a happy home: Integrity must be the architect, and tidiness the upholsterer. It must be warmed by affection, lighted up with cheerfulness, and industry must be the ventilator, renewing the atmosphere and bringing in fresh salubrity day by day; while over all, as a protecting canopy and glory, nothing will suffice except blessing of God." It has been our aim throughout the course of lessons to suggest practices that would make for wholesome relationships within the family so that harmony and peace and the Spirit of God would be ever present, thus assuring each member of the group a home from which they might depart in the morning for their daily work with a light heart and a desire and determination to carry on irrespective of the vicissitudes the hours may bring, and to serve also as a place of refuge to which each member at eventide is anxious to return in order to recreate himself and enjoy the companionship of his loved ones; for, as Goethe says, "He is the happiest, be he king or peasant, who finds peace in his home." At evening, home is the best place for man. It has not been our purpose in the preceding lessons to picture family life as a Utopia free from all cares, worries and conflicts. It goes without saying that where there are human beings living in a relationship as constant and as intimate as is the relationship between husband and wife, and between parents and children, there will always be a certain number of problems and conflicts to be solved. We are cognizant of the fact that these difficulties will not adjust themselves, that only through an intelligent understanding of the principles of group living will we be able to minimize conflicts. We should be wary of the tendency to adjust to our problems rather than to adjust our problems; however, some problems call for both types of adjustment. The value Washington Irving gave to the home is well stated in the following quotation: "It was the policy of the good old gentleman to make his children feel that home was the happiest place in the world; and I value this delicious home-feeling as one of the choicest gifts a parent can bestow." Practically every student of the family has his own pet ideas concerning a reform program for the conservation of the family: Some advocate legislative reform, changes in marriage laws and in divorce laws; some would bring back many of the family practices that were in use a century or so ago and have now been discarded; some advocate that married women should not be employed outside the home; some would have every woman trained in home economics; some say there can be no successful family life without home ownership. We might go on and enumerate other suggestions that have been offered as recipes for successful family living. Undoubtedly,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 141
there is some virtue in all of the suggestions offered. However, each family should study its own needs and deficiencies and compound its own prescription for successful family living, discarding those practices that are not working well, introducing new practices that will probably work and retaining those practices that have proved helpful. In this manner, it will be possible to modify family practices as may be necessary in order to have the family function in this world of today. In conclusion, we offer some do's and do not's for family living that have been found of worth in promoting peace and harmony in some homes that are looked upon as a place of refuge by the members of the family. Such places have been referred to as "Home, the spot of earth supremely blest, a dearer, sweeter spot than all the rest." Constantly and tenderly cultivate the seeds of love and affection that were sown during the courtship period before marriage. Do not judge your mate by yourself; your mate is a member of the opposite sex, therefore is different. Try to understand and appreciate the differences and judge your mate accordingly. Do not disparage your mate. Remember that during periods of fatigue and worry the most amiable person may become irritable. Therefore, every housewife should so manage her household duties that she can have a period of rest in the afternoon; then, it will not be necessary for her to unload the care of the children and other duties on her husband as soon as he returns home after the day's work. Every man who is responsible for the economic support of his family has a strenuous struggle from day to day. If the wife realizes this, she will arrange for her husband to have a half-hour or so for rest or relaxation when he returns home in the evening. This time he will use as he wishes, undisturbed. After he has enjoyed such a period, he will be ready to assist in sharing whatever responsibilities require his assistance. A problem that appears as big as a mountain when one is hungry may appear merely a trivial incident after one has been well fed. Strive to become all that your mate could wish for in a close companion. Whenever conflict arises, each mate should answer honestly this question: To what extent is my own selfishness responsible for this situation? Engage in prayer frequently, for prayer drives away perplexity and trouble and leaves in their place peace and unity. Agree to live so that each will feel worthy to have the Spirit of God in his heart, and the Spirit of God will make of the most humble home a place of peace and harmony, a refuge of happiness.
Questions and Problems for Discussion
1. What three practices in your family do you consider to be most valuable in promoting happiness?
2. Mr. A and Mr. B are men of the same age, engaged in the same kind of occupations, are on the same financial level, and each has a wife and four children near the same ages. Mr. A says that after he has worked all day he is entitled to spend an hour at the Club. Mr. B is a member of the same club, but he says that as soon as he has finished his day's work the sooner he can get home the happier he is. What explanation can you suggest for the difference in the attitude of the two men toward home? Be specific.