NOTES FROM THE FIELD
Change in Relief Society Annual Stake Conventions
BEGINNING with the year 1940, the Relief Society annual stake conventions will be held in conjunction with stake union meetings rather than with stake quarterly conferences as heretofore. The announcement of this change was made November 8, 1939, at a meeting of auxiliary executives called by Elders Stephen L. Richards and Albert E. Bowen, of the Council of the Twelve. The time of the stake quarterly conferences formerly scheduled for auxiliary work will hereafter be given to the Priesthood, the First Council of Seventy and the Presiding Bishopric. In harmony with the new plan, the Relief Society convention for each stake may be scheduled, as far as possible, for the same day as the regular union meeting in one of the late summer or fall months. Wherever convenient, more than one stake will be included in the same convention, When stakes with varying union meeting days are combined, the convention date cannot always coincide with the regular union meeting day in each stake. Some deviation from the regular union meeting day will also be necessary in order to make it possible for members of the General Board to attend conventions in all the stakes in the Church during the designated months. Nevertheless, even though it may not be possible to hold the convention on the regular day of the union meeting for all stakes, the convention will, in the month in which it is held, replace the union meeting for that month. In those stakes where the auxiliaries hold union meetings conjointly, those auxiliaries for which a convention is not scheduled may forego their union meeting in that month. Convention schedules of the auxiliaries are being planned so that they do not fall in consecutive months for the same stake, so that no auxiliary will be deprived of more than one union meeting in order to accommodate the convention schedule of another auxiliary. The dates and programs for the new conference-union meetings will be announced later.
New Cantata by B. Cecil Gates By Wade N. Stephens
THE new cantata, "Resurrection Morning", written by B. Cecil Gates and dedicated to the Singing Mothers, was first performed Sunday, January 14, 1939, at the University Ward Chapel in Salt Lake City by Emma Lucy Gates Bowen, Virginia Freeze Barker, Annette Richardson Dinwoodey, James E. Haslam and P. Melvin Peterson, with Wade N. Stephens at the organ. The chapel was overcrowded with choristers and organists from the wards and stakes in and near Salt Lake, as well as most of the prominent musicians of the Church and city. Everyone who heard the performance acclaimed the work as
114 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the best Brother Gates has published to date, and a very effective and musicianly composition. Five voice parts are written in the score (SS. A. T. B.). They are so arranged that the cantata is equally effective when sung by ladies voices (SS. A.), by ladies voices with bass (SS. A. B.), or by the full five parts. The chorus parts are well within the range of untrained voices, with optional higher notes that improve the effect when sung by the few who can reach them. This makes it very usable in the wards where there are few tenors, and sometimes no men at all. All the voice parts are both easy and melodious, but in spite of this the music is very interesting. The work consists of seven choruses, some with solo parts, which are effective as anthems apart from the rest of the cantata, and four short recitatives that connect the choruses to form a narrative of the Crucifixion and some of the events of the first Easter Morning. Each chorus is carefully composed, and some of the climaxes sound very full and complicated, when in fact they are very simple to sing. We recommend the new cantata to all groups?Singing Mothers, M. I. A. Choruses, ward choirs, and even children's voices. Brother Gates has surpassed himself in this work. It is to be ranked among the best our composers have produced.