Woman as an Interpreter of the Faith By Maude Beeley Jacob "Your daily life is your temple and your religion." A FTER ages of human experience the universal question stands: of a man's life? The history of human experience reveals the fact that happiness is the goal of human nature. Human experience, moreover, reveals that happiness is not predicated upon the physical satisfaction of the appetites and the passions, that material wealth is not essential to happiness, and that power, honor, or fame do not guarantee happiness. Primitive man's quest for happiness differs from that of the philosopher, the miser's from the millionaire's, the way of the man of the world from the way of the man of God. The happiness of every individual differs according to his understanding of life and his own development. Modern civilization, at its best, is the product of science, social organization and Christian idealism. Science has brought to man power over the world, the world of nature; social organization has directed man's efforts in the art of living with his fellows; while Christian idealism has provided the great laws of life, the love of God and man. Yet, the same civilization has produced the destructive forces that are destroying man's chances of happiness. Science which brought immeasurable blessings produced also the means of destruction; social organization What is the measure which brought law and order produced also injustice, cruelty, and confusion through a multiplicity of standards; the creations of man now threaten man's destruction by violating the sacredness of human life, the Christian ideal. Through education, enlightenment may come to man. Through the culture of the ages stored in libraries, museums, art galleries, cathedrals, schools, and missions, life today is enriched. Whatever brings to man the good, the true, and the beautiful of life directs him in the appreciation of life. But the patterning of lives for happiness needs more than education, more than culture, more than a mere appreciation of life. That man's search for happiness is universal is evidenced by the systems of philosophy and religion that have originated in the mind of man. In the words of a great philosopher, Havelock Ellis, "It is through religion that men seek rest from the tensions of life." To know the meaning of life has occasioned the most serious thought of man. To have the assurance of his own immortality has occasioned the most sincere desire of man. It is thus that through the ages mankind has maintained his quest for happiness. It remained for Jesus to bring to the ancient systems of philosophy and religion God's plan for the immor-
88 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
tality and eternal life of man. However, with the command "Be ye perfect" came also the freedom to choose the straight and narrow path to eternal life. As a pattern for building a perfect life, Jesus taught by a parable: "Every one that heareth these words of mine, and doeth them, shall be likened unto a wise man who built his house upon a rock; and the rains descended and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat upon that house; and it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock." Lives built upon a knowledge of God's purposes, the assurance of God's love, and obedience to God's laws can bring to man his greatest happiness, the joy of progression. Lives built upon the love of God do not separate beliefs from actions, days are not set apart for self and for God, and joys and sorrows disturb not the soul. The measure of religion is the foundation of the temple it builds for a man's life. As the forces of the world surge against such a life, it yields not, but rather is it beautified and glorified by the experience. As one pauses to look at the tragedies of lives, there are those tragedies which stand as monuments to a faith that has not endured to build the temple even after having the divine foundation of religion; the building has been forgotten because the ways of modern life were so fair, so arresting, and so occupying. Age has many such life-structures. Then, there are the tragedies of youth, youth who are erecting no temples. To the women of today comes the challenge: "I have set before thee this day life and good, and death and evil; therefore, choose life that thou mayest live, thou and thy seed." It is the challenge of the ages; its import is changeless, because it holds the secret of man's eternal happiness. Women today in the quest of happiness for themselves and their seed are asking the age-old questions: What is the purpose of life? Is this life all? What is the relation between God and man? How can an individual know God? What are God's purposes for man's life? From the history of human experience, we read of woman's role as the maker and bearer of culture. As the generations of mankind have passed, she has carried her obligation for the continuance of society with courage and fortitude. As opportunities for enlightenment have come to her, she has sought knowledge with diligence and gratitude. As life has increased in complexity, she has striven earnestly for the enrichment of the moral and intellectual resources of human society. Because she has come to know the sacredness of human personality she has dedicated herself to promote the good, the true, and the beautiful in the world. The force which woman represents in the world is the force of love, a spiritual power. Women have been the servants of humanity not as theologians but as interpreters of religion. It is the humanity of the Christ of St. Luke that has been the beacon guiding the force of love as it has grown to become the spiritual power in the humanizing of the world. It is the gospel carrying the experiences of everyday living as parables: The shepherd and the sheep which is lost and the woman and the piece of
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 89
silver which is lost; the traveler in the far country delivering his goods to his servants and the virgins going forth to meet the bridegroom, while wayward sons, erring women, cripples and unfortunates were also everyday experiences and are so today. The burden of the teachings of Jesus was love, for He said, "Love is the fulfilling of the law. He that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God." This then is the source of true religion, religion that patterns and motivates lives to their brightest perfection and therefore the greatest happiness. A more complete understanding of her own spiritual powers should serve to inspire woman to the significance of her own happiness, also to the source of her greatest influence. Agnes S. Turnbull in her beautiful creation "The Maid of Emmaus" has caught this spirit: It was Passover week and all was bustle at the little inn in Emmaus, a day's journey from Jerusalem. For the peasant maid doing the thankless tasks of the inn it became a wonderful week, for she was to carry food and wine to Jerusalem for her master. It was her first trip to Jerusalem. Many strange scenes she passed as she guided the donkey bearing the load. Within a few steps of the gate of the city a group of people had stopped to listen to a speaker. Above the crowd the girl heard the words, "A certain man planted a vineyard." The tiredness of the voice and the sadness of the face held the maid's attention. As the crowd left, the Teacher saw her standing there. Holding out His hand He smiled and said, "Thou art little Martha. Thou, too, shall be my disciple." And the maiden asked the name of the Teacher, who answered, "I am called Jesus." When the maid returned home, one thought grew stronger and stronger, to make Him a gift to show she was His disciple. The idea came to her to make some little loaves, perfect loaves of the finest wheat and take them to Him. It was a big task and must be done with secrecy. Her only treasure was sold for the finest wheat, the flour made, and the loaves baked. Leaving before dawn, she hurried to Jerusalem. One after another she questioned near the Temple, "Where was the rabbi Jesus?" It was from some soldiers she received the answer, "We helped to crucify him the other day." Holding her precious loaves, she hastened back to Emmaus. The way was long, and night had fallen when she arrived. As she expected, she was severely beaten for the neglect of her daily tasks. It was late when three strangers entered the inn weary and hungry. The maid gave them the usual meal of barley loaves, oil, and wine. Then she remembered her little loaves. She took them and placed them before one of the strangers. A light as of a radiant sunset seemed to surround Him. He took the little loaves, broke them, and blessed them. Cleophas and Simon were breathless. Martha whispered, "Master." For she alone knew Him. He turned and smiled at the maid. The Master understood. Softly the radiance faded, and the stranger's seat was empty. But on
90 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
the table were the little white loaves, broken and blessed. If woman is to serve herself and her seed in the patterning and building of worthy lives, the spirit of love will be her greatest power. To the Latter-day Saints the full significance of God's purposes for the life of man have been revealed with the restoration of the Gospel. From these divine laws of life we know that it is God's plan "to bring to pass the immortality and the eternal life of man". With this understanding, the divinely chosen leaders of the Church have sought to guide the lives of the Saints to the attainment of eternal happiness, their heritage and their promise. During the days of persecution, exile, and the building of Zion, the Saints lived very near to God, believing, trusting, and obeying. As the years passed, the newness of the modern world, its good and its evil, crowded upon Zion. Again and again has the admonition to live righteously gone forth as God's servants have counseled the Saints. Unexpected struggles have grown out of the social chaos of the age for both young and old. These have evolved also a multiplicity of standards of living, threatening the moral values of life established by the Church through revelation of God's purposes. Today is a new day, its greatest need is the translation of the world's values to the values of eternal life. The spiritual destiny of man, his immortality and his eternal happiness, is built as lives are lived. To the women of the Church who are earnestly seeking life and good for mankind must come the spiritual power of love building their own lives. Becoming interpreters of life by their own lives, they become instruments in God's work whereby the world may become refined for the fulfillment of God's purposes for the life of man.
TO GIVE OF THYSELF By Hortense Spencer Andersen
With only a modest urge at reckoning The significance of such emblazonment, Man stands again, incuriously content, Beholding his inheritance, the Spring.
He witnesses the lavish blossoming Of that which only yesterday seemed spent, Without divining the magnificent Design contrived to quicken him, earth's king.
He, also, could repeat his flowerings Of spirit, service, virtue, energy In season, as the endless other things Of earth, if he in his maturity But spent himself, as freely as a rose tree flings Its petals.... But some give but partially.