GO?~EDITORIAL?O Retiring General Board Members SERVICE rendered by willing, discerning, capable persons in the advancement of the work of the Lord is glorious; its benefits are far reaching, and she who renders it is compensated in the joy that accompanies such service, in the appreciation and love of those served and in the blessings of a kind and generous Father. The Relief Society has been fortunate in having as General Board Members women of unusual ability, women who understand the principles of the Gospel and who have strong testimonies of its truth, women willing to give generously of their time and talents that the work may go forward. Each of the retiring Board Members has made a definite and valuable contribution to the Society, visiting the stakes, serving on standing and special committees, formulating and defining policies and planning programs. Each has her own special endowment which has enabled her to make a unique contribution to the work. Emma A. Empey was appointed general treasurer in 1911, retaining this position until the reorganization of the Board in 1921. Her unusual business ability enabled her to fill the position with efficiency. This same ability, together with her skill in needlework, made her a capable manager of the Burial Clothes Department. She is probably best known, however, because of her work in the field of nursing. Prior to her appointment as a member of the Board, she was appointed Superintendent of Relief Society nurses, a work which she pioneered. Later, she took over the placement of nurses trained in the Relief Society School of Nursing. Educated in the social graces, kindly and gracious in temperament, she has been an asset to the Organization in its social functions. Annie Wells Cannon's life is a splendid record of service to Church and community. She was first appointed a member of the Board in 1902, serving until 1910, when she was released because of the arduousness of her duties as President of the Pioneer Stake, which position she held from 1904 until 1920. She was reappointed to the Board in 1919 by President Heber J. Grant. Sister Cannon's service to the Organization has been of the highest order. Her knowledge of its history, her wise judgment with regard to policies and programs, her humanitarian instincts, her tireless devotion to all phases of the work place her among Relief Society's outstanding leaders. Her literary talent has been invaluable to the Organization; her creative work is superior. Her contributions to the Magazine have greatly enhanced its value. She has been chairman of the Eliza R. Snow Poem Committee, and in this position has done much to stimulate women to express themselves in poetry and to raise the standard of 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

, FEBRUARY - 111 work done. She has been influential in developing an appreciation of the best in literature. For fifteen years she served as associate editor of the Woman's Exponent, the forerunner of the Relief Society Magazine, Devoted as she has been to the Church, she has also been very active in civic affairs, receiving national recognition in 1926 as the woman from Utah whose success and influence was most far reaching. When the Utah Federation of Women's Clubs started its selection of outstanding women in 1934, she was among the seven chosen the first year. Lalene H. Hart was appointed to the Board April 2, 1921. She has served with efficiency and fidelity. She was a graduate of the Brigham Young College and later attended Simmon's College in Boston for several terms, specializing in Home Economics. Relief Society has greatly benefitted from her training in this field. As chairman of the Work and Business Committee she has been instrumental in bringing into the program our present excellent course in Nutrition. In the appointment of Sister Cora L. Bennion, April 2, 1921, the Board was strengthened by a reserved, well balanced, spiritual woman. Her educational interests and opportunities have aided greatly in the educational program. Her work as chairman of the Temple committee has resulted in increased activity in this direction. Full of faith, dependable, capable, she has played an important part in the work of Relief Society. Rosannah Cannon Irvine, a woman of culture and refinement, was called to the Board April 2, 1921. The daughter of a General Board Member, Sarah Jenne Cannon, and one of the Church's great leaders, George O. Cannon, she brought to her position a thorough understanding of the Gospel and a knowledge and an appreciation of Relief Society. When only 15 years of age she was called to be secretary of the Farmer's Ward Relief Society. Recognizing the capacities of Relief Society women to understand and enjoy the best, Sister Irvine has labored diligently to uplift cultural standards. She is a gifted writer, and many local organizations have presented her plays and pageants. For the past two years she has been chairman of the Pageant Committee. Nettie D. Bradford was president of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society when called to the Board, March 25, 1925. She has filled her position with grace and dignity. No task has been too difficult or unpleasant for her, and her accomplishments are immeasurable. As president of the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, she introduced a central family registration system which was later adopted by the General organization, an outstanding contribution to Relief Society. In addition to the splendid service rendered Relief Society she has brought credit to the Organization through her extensive activities in community affairs. On August 17, 1927, a charming, talented woman was made a member of the Board. Ida Peterson Beal's gift of song and sunny disposition have brought happiness; as a member of the Music Committee she has 112 - FEBRUARY, 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 been instrumental in developing the musical talent of the women of the Church. As first chairman of the committee directing the activities of the Singing Mothers her efforts merit praise and gratitude. Her vision and foresight regarding the possibilities of developing a great chorus of Singing Mothers has been realized. Civic and church work has for many years claimed the interest of Sister Emeline Young Nebeker. She was appointed a member of the General Board December 11, 1929, and has proved herself eminently fitted for the position. Serving as president of the Twelfth-Thirteenth Ward at the time of her appointment, her interest in the ward units has continued; she has kept unusually close to them and their problems. She has been vitally interested in social welfare and through her identification with civic welfare organizations has been influential in promoting good will and friendly cooperation between them and the Relief Society. She is a good executive, has the ability to see things clearly and the courage to work for and defend the right. Sister Nebeker has filled her position creditably. Janet Murdoch Thompson has been a member of the Board since April, 1935. A woman of integrity and good judgment, a forceful leader, she has served with distinction. She is an accomplished pianist and has been tireless in her efforts to bring music into the lives of Relief Society women. She has been an active member of the Church Music Committee and has served as chairman of the Music Committee of the General Board directing the activities of the Singing Mothers, a stupendous movement which has been unusually successful and has grown with marked rapidity. Her special interest in music has not narrowed her activities in the Organization; she has a fine vision of all phases of the program and has worked hard to promote the welfare of the Organization as a whole. Her marvelous capacity for friendship has been an asset to the Society. The Relief Society organization acknowledges its indebtedness to all who faithfully serve it, and the Magazine wishes to express its love and appreciation for the retiring General Board members. May the compensations of service be theirs in abundance.