HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon FEBRUARY?Friendship is the truest gift from man to man. A CHARMING month is February. Then the gaieties of the season reach a climax. The follies of the masquerade and Colonial balls in gala costumes rival in revelry. Lacy valentines and dainty gifts crowd the mails, and hearts beat high in expectancy of spring. ALICE MARBLE, tennis queen, was noted by the nation's sport experts the outstanding woman athlete of 1939. HELEN PERRY, Helene Rains, and Helen Crelnkovich, expert American swimmers, have gone to South America to enter the seven swimming tournaments to be held there. The three Helens will compete with champions of Argentine and Brazil. VIVIAN LEIGH was awarded first prize among women stars for her characterization of Scarlet O'Hara in "Gone With the Wind" by the New York film critics, while "Wuthering Heights" was considered the best film production. ASENITH ALNEY, 17, froze to death when her car became stalled on a lonely highway Christmas day. 'This heroic young mother discarded her own warm clothing to save her four-month-old baby girl. IRENE GERBER, according to gypsy custom, carried out a wedding-funeral, as she followed the casket of her young lover to his burial place. Dressed in white gown and veil with ushers, bridesmaids, ringbearers and a gypsy band in procession the picturesque group threw flowers into the grave of her beloved. JUDGE REVA BECK BOSONE of Utah is listed in the "Woman's Almanac of 1940" among the feminine celebrities. It is a volume devoted to women first in everything. Pearl Buck, Katherine Cornell and Anne O'Hara McCormick are among those listed. UNITY VALKYRIE FREEMAN-MITFORD, Nordick beauty, payed dearly for her admiration and friendship for Adolph Hitler. She returned last month to her English home and father, Lord Redesdale, suffering from a mysterious illness. ELIZABETH C. CRISMON, 91, Rosina C, Lambert, 87, Anne S. Hatch, 86, and Nellie C. Sandberg, 65, Gold Star mother, all notable pioneer Church and civic workers, died this winter. NNE GREEN'S new _ book, "The Silent Duchess," a serious study of French Society, 18th century; Susan Erst's "One Fight More", a satirical novel; Bartita Harding's "Imperial Twilight", a romantic history of the last of the Hapsburgs, and Catherine D. Bowen's "Free Artist", the story of Anton Rubinstein, are among the best books recently published. HARRIET McCLOSKIE, Utah business woman, has gone again to the Orient in search of odd wares and antiques for the American trade.