The Sunny Side of the Hill Beginning Again By Lella Marler Hoggan
Across the western sky a blaze of color is flung across a rugged mountain range. Under the glow of the setting sun, the purple shadows warm into rose and amethyst, orchid and mauve. Then, as the sun sinks lower in the sky, the hills take on a cold blue color, and the deepening shades of night creep up the gullies and across the face of the cliffs. A young girl watching the changing scene catches her breath in ecstasy, "Life is like that, glorious, radiant, all golden." An old woman viewing the same sunset sighs heavily, "Life is like that. At the last all of the color fades out, and it becomes dark and cold and threatening." You who are growing older, do you see life from the deepening shadows? Has the color, the beauty, the romance faded out of the picture for you? Has the weight of the years crushed your high hopes and left you with only broken dreams and bitter memories? In youth you cherished the ideal of a beautiful woman, a woman who possessed all of the feminine graces, who was as sweet and wholesome as a fragrant flower?the woman that you hoped one day to become. Now you are face to face with her. As you look at her in the mirror each morning, as you kneel with her in prayer each night, are you disappointed in her? After all, isn't she the woman that you had hoped she would be? Having walked with her through the years, you know of the losses and the failures she has met. You know of the crushing sorrow, of the stark tragedy through which she has struggled. You know, too, how day after day she has missed many of the lovely things she so much desired to enjoy, because life demanded of her that she perform the hard, necessary tasks. But judging her in the light of all that has gone before, do you not know that her life is more than a broken dream?
Too often we view life from the shady side of the hill. Losing the glint of the sunshine, we see only the dark side of the picture. We come to think of ourselves as old-fashioned and unimportant, as just a part of an out-dated machine, ready to be tossed aside unnoticed. But that view of life is not true. Even if you have lived a long time you are still a person. You can still look to the sunlit heights by day and the stars by night for inspiration. You can still listen to the lark at dawn. Why should we mill around dead campfires? Why should we sit and watch a spent blaze? Let us stir the coals, and as the flame leaps high perhaps its light will guide us back to the path again. Busy hands and a singing heart bring cheer to the dullest day.
DUTY held the early-day mother to her household tasks even in sorrow, because there was always "a fire to tend and a wick to trim". Let us find some service to perform, some little song to sing. If we have suffered sorrow and defeat, we know the words to speak to bring hope to another who is in distress. Providing for the daily needs of others brings a certain quiet joy.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 99
When the day is gray and the clouds hang low, And the moan of the gale is strong, From the kitchen fire and a mixing bowl Comes the magic that heals the troubled soul, And warms the heart with a song.
Walking in the shadows with heart closed against the singing melody of life, do not give up hope. Be assured, you are not forgotten. A divine presence is forever near you. You can still claim the gentle comfort of God's healing love. Through daily communion with Him, you can find your way back to the blossoming valley of peace and contentment. It is never too late to begin again. The ideal is still in your heart, and the dream can be created anew. Life is not a failure until we quit trying. No game is lost until it is over. Remember Harriet Beecher Stowe's advice: "When you get into a tight place, and everything goes against you, till it seems as if you couldn't hold on any longer, never give up then, for that's just the place and time that the tide'll turn." While we are traveling toward the summit of life, we go in gladness, eager to meet the day. But on reaching the top of the hill, we sometimes lose the zest for life. And yet the remainder of the journey is quite as interesting as the beginning. At every turn of the road new vistas will be revealed to our view. 100 - FEBRUARY, 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 Life does not stint her measure to us because we are growing older. We are the ones who limit the generous flow of truth and beauty, of joy and romance. There is a wealth of treasure for both age and youth, if we but have faith enough to claim our portion. There has never been an age when life held so much of interest to lure men and women on toward achievement and satisfaction. Do not think that. The quest is ended. Each apparent ending only marks a new beginning. Let us up and on our way. Nature does not brood over her unhappy yesterdays. Can not we also forget? Long ago Susan Coolidge reminded us that, "Every day is a fresh beginning, Every morn is the world made new." The time of beginning is here. Let us rise with a song in our hearts and go to meet the new day.