Department of Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL Lesson 8 "The Bent Twig"
IN the development of The Bent Twig, the three characteristics of the modern novel are admirably set forth. The setting, which includes the time, the places, and the background or enveloping circumstances of the story, is in perfect keeping with the narrative as it is related. It often is the cause of what happens. The plot is the real frame work which gives shape and proportion to the work. It is most essential;
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 131
though, as in other modern novels, it is often very faintly drawn. In most novels there is usually a main thread with others woven together. Sylvia Marshall's life and the series of events bearing directly or indirectly upon her character form the main thread or plot of The Bent Twig. There are many characters in the book, and they are well worth knowing, for they are real. These characters determine the plot, not the plot the characters. The character sketches are of New England people, everyday types, drawings of real people with a penetration into their innermost thoughts and feelings. They show a cross section of life, as it were, and are not merely a fictional portrayal. The values emphasized are always the ordinary human values, the universal experiences, as the characters in The Bent Twig live and express themselves. The Nation has this to say of Sylvia: "The lovely, the self-willed, the covetous, the petty intriguer and poser, who yet fights in vain against the deeper principles of pure and noble. Action which are her heritage. Hers is a type more common in America perhaps than elsewhere. Mrs. Fisher has studied it with sympathy and without sentimentality." Book I comes to a close with the end of childhood, a simple but realistic picture of people who are brave and good and true. Sylvia is beginning to see things for herself, how the other members of the faculty regard her father. "Sylvia understood the accent and tone of this passage more than the exact words, but it summed up and brought home to her in a cruelly clarified form her own groping impressions. The moment was a terribly painful one for her. Her heart swelled, the tears came to her eyes, she clenched her fists. Her fine, lovely and sensitive face darkened to a tragic intensity of resolve. She might have been the young Hannibal, vowing to avenge Carthage. What she was saying to herself passionately was, 'When I get into the University, I will not be a jay!' "It was under these conditions that Sylvia passed from childhood and emerged into the pains and delights and responsibilities of self-consciousness." Book II is one of the most important parts of the entire novel. One has the feeling that it was of this portion particularly that F. T. Cooper was thinking when he wrote for the Book of the Month Review: "It impresses one chiefly with a sense of its durability, as being one of the books we so seldom meet which will wear well, books that it is a pleasure to take down from the shelf at intervals and read over again, in part or in whole.... Sylvia's mother is one of the best and truest and most thoroughly real types of American womanhood to be met with in the fiction of recent years." This picture of the young girl steadily developing into womanhood under the influence of an intelligent, tender, understanding mother is one of the finest examples of proper guidance and its reward that is to be found in any book, fiction or non-fiction. It is a splendid example of the theory in character education that youth must be grounded in correct principles but that freedom of choice in making important personal decisions must be left to them; otherwise, they will
132 ? FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
be robbed of the very power that will be necessary to sustain them in resisting temptation and in reaching proper decisions in important crises. The visit to Chicago was Sylvia's first sight of modern civilization with its joys and discomforts and life as her Aunt Victoria lived it. There is a most pathetic forecast of what Arnold's life is to be and the part environment plays. Sylvia's mother and Aunt Victoria stand out much more clearly drawn by the striking contrast one presents to the other. The visit to the large hospital is an index to the path sister Judith will follow. The chapter "An Instrument in Tune" is a subtle yet most thrilling recital of what true marriage can mean to a high-souled man and woman. Professor Marshall decided to bring Lawrence and join his wife and daughters in Chicago. As they meet, the child exclaims, "Father brungded me," clasping his arms tightly around the mother's neck. "We got so lonesome for Mother we couldn't wait." Sylvia had stamped on her mind a picture which was to come back later, her father's face and eyes as he ran down the steps to meet his wife.... "Yes, Buddy's right! We found we missed you so, we decided life wasn't worth it. You don't know, Barbara, what it's like without you?you don't know." "Higher Education" is a fine description of Sylvia's preparation for college under the direction of her parents and their chosen instructors. It is also an excellent description of life in a coeducational mid-western university. This chapter and those that follow, while they are not autobiographical, have woven into them many of the author's own experiences, ideals and philosophy. The problems presented are not uncommon to mothers with daughters, all over the land. Sylvia's experience is by no means uncommon when her pride is so seriously hurt because rival sororities pass her by in her freshman year. The reason, carefully concealed from her, is that her parents are queer and attract to their servantless home the odd members of the faculty. It is small wonder that her vanity was flattered and her self-confidence restored when through her great beauty and charm she attracted the attention and won the favor of the wealthiest and most influential upper classman. For a time her head was turned by social success. There are "Mrs. Drapers" in every community, and temporarily her influence over Sylvia was strong. In the chapter "Mrs. Marshall Sticks to Her Principles" one feels that the author is speaking from the depths of her own convictions, and the conversation between the father and mother is one that all parents might do well to read. In the end, the mother is justified; when suddenly temptation presents itself to Sylvia, she recoils from it in disgust and instinctively turns to the protection of her parents. The interview with Mrs. Fiske, Sylvia's sense of shame over the yellow chiffon dress which she would not have her mother see, her precipitate flight home, are all related with the bitterness, hope and intensity of emotion which lie unsuspected in even the plainest of people. As her mother had predicted, the same vigor that made her resist her parents when she accepted the invitation to the Fiske house party now made her
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 133
strong enough to resist temptation when she met it. There is nothing finer in the book than the soul-revealing conversation between Sylvia and her mother following Sylvia's last interview with worldly Mrs. Draper, whose influence now was to produce in the girl a "moral nausea". The whole world was sickened and darkened for Sylvia before she sought her mother's counsel. "Sylvia gazed with wide eyes at the older woman's face, ardent, compelling, inspired, feeling too deeply, to realize it wholly, the vital and momentous character of the moment. She seemed to see nothing, to be aware of nothing but her mother's heroic eyes of truth; but the whole scene was printed on her mind for all her life.... The very breath of the pure, scentless winter air was to come back to her nostrils in after years. 'Sylvia,' her mother went on, 'it is one of the responsibilities of men and women to help each other to meet on a high plane and not on a low one. And on the whole?health is the rule of the world?on the whole, that's the way the larger number of husbands and wives, imperfect as they are, do live together. Family life wouldn't be possible a day if they didn't.... Sylvia dear, don't let anything make you believe that there are not as many decent men in the world as women, and they're just as decent. Life isn't worth living unless you know that?and it's true." Sylvia went back to her college work and to her music. Her development was sane and steady, maturing her strength and womanliness and intellectual power. The author's style is fluent and clear, and the narrative consistently maintains a note that is wholesome and earnest. The ideas and ideals that have shaped our national life are brought into prominence. While it can be truthfully said of the whole story, Book II more than any other part shows the developing American spirit which finds its greatest interest in a search for social harmony. Above all, it shows the opportunity offered in this land and the glory of a free life on a small income, when directed by such a spirit as Sylvia's mother.
Questions and Suggestions
1. (a) Define the essential characteristics of the modern novel. (b) Explain the influence of one upon the other.
2. Read Book II and compare it with Book I.
3. Tell why The Bent Twig is an excellent portrayal of character development and the influence of environment.
4. Name some of the social problems suggested.
5. Point out some of the most dramatic episodes in this part of the novel. Give your reactions to these.