Social Service Lesson 8 Psychology of Happy Living
I. "RELIGION OF HEALTHY MINDEDNESS."
If we reflect carefully on the nature of life and happiness, we are forced to the conclusion that the world of natural events is neither good nor bad. How we value these events is a personal matter. What our "luck" is doesn't matter so much as "how we take it'. Whether life is worth living depends upon us much more than upon circumstances outside ourselves. To say there is no evil is as erroneous as to say there is nothing good in life, and there are unhappy victims of both extremes. The most permanent kind of happiness is based upon a clear recognition of the evils of the world, not upon ignoring or denying their existence. When we intelligently recognize the dark side of life, such as the fact that death will finally call us all, we set about fortifying ourselves against the shock of the inevitable. We first do all in our power to live wisely in order to avoid the unpleasant things. Then, we try to see that even those events we call evil or detrimental to our happiness are somehow a part of the scheme of things and that eventually all will turn out for the best, although perhaps not until some distant time in the hereafter will we fully appreciate this fact. But on the plane of everyday events, there are phases of life that may be either good or bad, depending upon our ability to make the best of our circumstances. Some people are blessed with the happy quality of seeing something humorous in the everyday disappointments and misfortunes. This quality keeps them from brooding over little things until they become habitually pessimistic. Most things we pass day by day do not scream out at us and say, "Here am I, Beauty, or Truth, or Love. I will make you happy." On the contrary, we must be on the lookout continually for that part of each day's events which may contribute to our joy. If we set happiness as our goal, we may miss the little joys along the way which really constitute happiness. Happiness is a byproduct of what we do, not an end in itself. Happiness is created in very deed by our reading a happy meaning into the world in which we live. Some skeptics might say that this philosophy is so much "romantic moonshine", but the fact remains that happiness is created by our expecting intelligently the best there is in life, and living as though life is good. We can find either good or bad in almost every day's experiences, depending on which we expect. Happiness depends upon how we respond, not so much upon the facts of the outside world. A beautiful piece of classical music may bore us, whereas it thrills someone else who has learned to respond appropriately to it. A large part of education consists of teaching us to appreciate that which is beautiful. Brigham Young stated this in his definition of education as the ability to think, act, and appreciate.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 135
The habit of happiness is closely related to the habit of success discussed in Lesson 6, "The Psychology of Personal Efficiency". When we feel we are succeeding, we find it easier to see the best side of life; when we are failing, it is easy to ignore the good. We, therefore, conclude that if we would be happy we must be successful first. But success is such a relative matter. Happiness can grow out of success in very common things, quite within the reach of all of us. Happiness is found as often in common as it is in high places, if not more often. It isn't where we live, but how we live that makes the difference between happiness and unhappiness. Successful achievement at whatever we undertake contributes to happiness, be our occupation ever so humble.
II. HOW SHALL WE TEST OUR BELIEFS?
Happiness is of such a nature that it grows naturally out of our struggles to make a better world. Perhaps a certain amount of pain and disappointment is necessary in order to achieve happiness. Contrast between sorrow and joy seems to be a condition for happiness. The secret of happy living lies in our ability to take a positive view of life as a whole. To do this, we must have an abiding faith in the order and purpose of all things. He who has no faith in the final outcome of the earthly struggle may become lost in the depths of despair. He who believes is not completely spared from disappointment and sorrow, but he is much better prepared to recover from them, through the simple salvation found in the faith that after all "man is that he might have joy". In fact, this simple test is one of the most convincing proofs that the object of our faith is true. Belief, if carried out in life, helps to prove itself. In our previous lesson on superstitions, we saw that wishes often are the mother of our beliefs. If this is so, how shall we test our faiths to determine which are true and which are simply superstitions born of the "will to believe'? The best test is that suggested by Jesus, that "If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God". (John 7: 16.) If a belief or faith can be acted out in daily life, and we are made permanently happier thereby, we would say that our faith is well founded. Overstreet speaks of this test as follows: "What, then, in this world, is 'reality', and how can it be found? The simplest answer is that reality is what can be acted out, and the way to find it is to act it out. "Is two plus two equals four a reality? Try it and see. Is good faith a reality? Again, the proof is in the trying. If persistent deception works with a continuous and unbroken effectiveness, it must be accounted a reality. Of course, in one sense, it is a reality. That is, each act of deception, as a psychological happening, is a reality. But what is implied in an act of deception is that this is a way of successful life. It is this implication which is either a reality or an unreality. The test is 'try and see'. In this particular case, man has rejected lying as an 'unreal' way of life, for he has seemed to find that in the long run it really does not work." (Overstreet, H. A., The Enduring Quest, pp. 134, 135.)
136 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
We have shown in the previous lesson that there are so many limitations to our knowledge that if we were to act only when we have complete knowledge of the outcome, we should probably never act on the most important questions of life. If we were to wait for complete knowledge as to the outcome of a marriage and rearing a family, for example, we should probably remain forever celibate; were we to wait for complete knowledge as to the outcome of pursuing our chosen vocation, we should remain forever without accomplishment. Likewise, if we were to wait for complete knowledge of the existence of God and the reality of the hereafter, we should certainly not live and work toward the higher rewards of a religious life. But we do believe, we do have faith in these unseen realities; and when we live as if we had complete assurance of their existence, and our lives are made more worth living by so believing and acting, to that extent we prove that our faith is founded on truth. When we live as if God and the hereafter are realities, we are able to withstand the disappointments and tragedies which inevitably will strike us. There is nothing to lose by believing, and much to gain; but by disbelieving we lose considerable happiness in this life, and we may lose greatly in the hereafter by living as though the unseen world is not real. Now, faith works out in our lives in a most practical way. The sick who lie at death's door often hang in the balance, and a strong faith in the power of prayer often stimulates the vital reserves of the afflicted one and turns the course of the illness toward recovery; whereas, despair and lack of faith might in a very natural way make the difference between life and death. All the way through life, we find that our faith in the best side of existence tends to make a reality of what we believe. Joseph Smith and Brigham Young surely could not have had the physical and mental vitality to accomplish what they did for the Kingdom of God had it not been for their faith, which released their vital reserves.
III. WHAT ARE SOME OF THE GOOD THINGS IN LIFE?
We can greatly improve our ability to respond to the world in such a manner as to find happiness. For one thing, we can search for truth and make the world more interesting by simply knowing about it. We often hear discussions as to the value of a liberal education, and whether or not we can prove that such an education improves our chances of financial success. Whatever the true answer may be, there is little doubt that a liberal education helps us to enjoy the world we live in, although education may not always lead to wealth. The great panorama of world events today, although not uniformly a source of joy, gives us something in which to be keenly interested. Do you read your daily newspaper with regularity? If not, you can easily learn to enjoy so doing, if you will try long enough to catch the thread of what is going on in the world. History, literature, various branches of natural science, and the social studies? these and many other fields lie before you, and we need not go to college nor travel abroad to explore new worlds. Knowledge for
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 137
its own sake is one of our great sources of satisfaction, because acquiring knowledge means enlarging ourselves through acquaintance with a larger world. Bertrand Russell, an English philosopher, considers knowledge one of the main goals of right living: "It is obvious also that desire for knowledge is to be encouraged, since the knowledge that a man acquires is not obtained by taking it away from someone else; but a desire for (say) a large landed estate can only be satisfied in a small minority." (Philosophy, p. 235.)
However, knowledge, like faith, without works is often dead. Another extensive and good part of life is the joy of doing, the joy of constructing something, the joy of activity for its own sake (which we call play), and the joy of helping a person in need. There is always a danger that too much seeking after knowledge will interfere with the delight we should take in doing as well as knowing. Starch says, "It is important to act, it. Is more important to think, but the most important thing of all is to think and act." We say that "knowledge is power", but knowledge is not really power until translated into action. Then, there is joy in seeing beauty. In the first chapter of Genesis, after each act of creation, we are told that "God saw that it was good". Henry Van Dyke, in his The Gentle Life, spoke as follows of the value of appreciating the beauties of nature: "There is more of God in the peaceable beauty of this little wood-violet than in all the angry disputations of the sects. We are nearer heaven when we listen to the birds than when we quarrel with our fellow men. I am sure that none can enter into the spirit of Christ,... Save those who willingly follow His invitation when He says, 'Come ye yourselves apart into a lonely place, and rest a while.' For since His blessed kingdom was first established in the green fields, by the lakeside, with humble fishermen for its subjects, the easiest way into it hath ever been through the wicket-gate of a lowly and grateful fellowship with nature.... Do you think that to be blind to the beauties of earth prepareth the heart to behold the glories of heaven?" Finally, there is joy in finding and encouraging righteousness in the world. We still see in the world many great acts of generosity and kindness which make us feel that life is good. In spite of the political and moral corruption to be found by looking for it, there are still many unselfish and valiant servants of the public good. The scoundrels should not make us lose faith in the saints, but we should learn to distinguish one from the other and to make partnership with greatness in others when we find it. More concretely, life is worth living for those who see other people as a source of joy. Friendship as a way of life is highly to be commended. Cheerfulness and serenity, which spring from deep faith and the habit of looking for the happy side of life, are rewards in themselves because the happy soul makes others happy; and his world, therefore, is directly a better place in which to live. Bertrand Russell commended in these words love as a way of life: "It is clear that... Love is better than hate, since, when
138 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
two people love each other, both can be satisfied, whereas when they hate each other one at most can achieve the object of his desire.... The good life is one inspired by love and guided by knowledge." (Philosophy, p. 235-)
IV. SEVEN RULES FOR HAPPY LIVING.
Daniel Starch, a prominent applied psychologist, became interested in what rules average people considered important guides to living. He gave a list of about 300 statements to about 600 people from all walks of life and asked them to check those they had found to be the most valuable maxims. He then grouped together all of the statements which seemed to express the same essential thought. The following seven thoughts were found to be considered most important. They may serve as a general summary of this lesson: 1. "Do unto others as you would that they should do unto you." "The only way to have a friend is to be one." 2. "Know thyself." By this is meant to learn to understand others as well as to understand ourselves. 3. "Anything that is worth doing at all is worth doing well." "Life is what you make it." "Don't postpone unpleasant things?get rid of them." 4. "The great essentials of happiness are something to do, something to love and something to hope for." "Happiness is a working of the soul in the way of excellence." "The pleasant things in the world are pleasant thoughts, and the great art of life is to have as many of them as possible." 5. "As a man thinketh in his heart, so is he." "Knowledge is power." "Responsibilities gravitate to the persons who can shoulder them and power flows to the man who knows how." 6. "Be calm and self-possessed, know what you are about, be sure you are right, then go ahead and don't be afraid." 7. "Trust in the Lord with all thine heart; and lean thou not to thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge Him and He shall direct thy paths." "God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble." In working out our own philosophy of life, some of the points of this lesson may be helpful. Let us remember, however, that a philosophy of life is a way of living, and only by testing out our plan by living it can we improve upon it and make it serve our lives to the fullest extent. "But be ye doers of the word, not hearers only, deceiving your own selves."
Problems for Discussion
1. Show how the value of life to us depends upon us more than upon external circumstances.
2. What is the danger of failing to admit the darker side of life?
3. What do you consider is the best test of your beliefs?
4. How does deep religious faith contribute to the habit of happiness?
References
1. Durant, Will. The Mansions of Philosophy, New York: Simon and Schuster, 1929, pp. 624-665.
2. Overstreet, H. A. The Enduring Quest, New York: Norton, 1931, pp. 129-139.
3. Starch, D., et al. Controlling Human Behavior, New York: Macmillan, 1936, pp. 593-623.