MUSIC DEPARTMENT
The Emotional Content of Music and Its Effect Upon Dynamics By Wade N. Stephens of the Tabernacle Organ Staff
IN last month's article was demonstrated the way in which emotional content affects the tempo at which a composition should be conducted. In a similar way we will now attempt to find how the mood affects dynamics. "Dynamics" is a general term that includes all the variations of loudness and softness.. It is even more intangible than tempo, and its use is harder to master, even though a few rather definite rules for its use can be formulated. If each reader will play three chords on the piano?one "soft", one "medium", and one "loud"? we will use them as standards for comparison as we did last month with tempo. How loud should music be played to express joy? How loud for sorrow? Each one will probably say that loudness indicates joy and softness sorrow. This is true only under ordinary conditions. A rule stating how to vary the dynamics would be subject to too many exceptions. A very intense grief will call for more loudness than a moderate gladness. It is not the kind of emotion that most affects the dynamics but the intensity of emotion. The intensity of the mood of a choral composition varies constantly with the words. When a line of words expresses more intense emotion, a crescendo is called for. An important word demands an accent. Unessential words may be sung lightly. By following the words with great care it is possible to work out a very detailed and effective scheme of dynamics. Here are a few rules that will help in working out the details of expression. They are musical rules and do not take the place of the emotional considerations outlined above. One should be modified by the other. 1. When the melody ascends, sing louder; when it descends, softer. 2. Normally, a phrase of music swells in the middle, ending more softly. 3. A long tone or series of repeated tones should not be sung the same loudness throughout. A swell is usually used in this way to escape monotony, but there are many other possibilities. 4. Longer notes are sung louder than shorter ones.. 5. If a phrase or section is repeated, it should not be sung with the same scheme of dynamics both times. In any composition, the dynamics must vary constantly, often from one extreme to the other. Dynamic contrast promotes interest. The loudest point in a piece should be greatly different from the softest. A performance without climax is dull. (There are occasional exceptions.) A climax is not necessarily very loud. It may be any degree of loudness, even very soft. It is set aside as a climax by its contrast in tempo and dynamics from the rest of the piece. When conducting, think of contrast, rather than loudness or softness, and performances will always be interesting.