An Anniversary Significant to "Everymember'' By Rae B. Barker FRROM the source of that same glorious effulgent light, of a brightness eclipsing anything the Prophet Joseph Smith had experienced, comes the light which illumines Relief Society's path of progress; and those who come within the radius of its influence reflect the light in varying degrees. Though the light possessed by each may be small, the cumulative contributions of "Everymember" make up the strength, the beauty, the fullness of Relief Society. This thought provided the theme for a program planned in the interest of membership. Such a program emphasizing membership could readily be adapted in commemorating Anniversary Day. The theme was introduced through the song "Shine On" in which we find these words: "My light is but a little one.... But lo! It glows like God's great sun for it was lighted there." The president further developed the theme in a convincing talk on the worth, or light, emanating from Relief Society. Capitalizing on the impressiveness of candle-lighting, she lit a taper; then, from her glowing candle other workers lighted theirs. Membership coordinators carried high lights symbolical of the idea expressed in the quotation "Let your light so shine.... "Also was read, "Neither do men light a candle and put it under a bushel but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house." The numbers following evidenced _ membership. A wealth of local talent. Deserving of mention were papers on "Handicaps Solved" and "Treasures I Have Found". Equally fine, in another ward, was the singing of an original anthem. Short biographical sketches of several ward women, recounting outstanding services, given unobtrusively, revealed beautiful characters. The work done by many thousands of women who constitute the general membership is best known in their own localities. While every service given carries its own compensation, appreciation stimulates further achievement. An effective March 17 program might be one honoring "Everymember" and in nature a recital of accomplishments stimulated and fostered by Relief Society. The Magazine is a rich source for supplemental material. Stories, poems, informative articles, original songs come from the pen of "Everymember". The series "Women We Should Know" and "Typical Women of the Church", as well as accounts of varied services and activities in "Notes From the Field", offer splendid material for developing an Anniversary program. Music, vocal and instrumental, chorus and individual, is joyously given by "Everymember" talent. Just now we are intensively working to spread the influence of Relief Society by substantially increasing Anniversary Day would be spent to good purpose if 102 - FEBRUARY, 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 we succeed in intensifying appreciation for being a member, with the accompanying privileges, or create the desire to become one. In some instances, March 17 has been the occasion for presenting the Organization with needed material gifts. Organization featured the presentation of an unusual gift?a large group of new members, bringing with them new faith and friendships, new talents and testimonies, new services and strengths. For the occasion, a poem was written to be used in presenting them. Each was identified by an inexpensive buttoniere. As they stood in a group, it was gratify-. Ing to observe that the Organization had been so generously augmented. In line with that idea, one. A program followed demonstrating that a typical group of our women possess gifts and talents that are rich in variety. It further demonstrated that the Relief Society plan offers numerous opportunities for their development. The new members, because of their willing response, found a warm welcome. The day ended with our rousing rally song sung with gusto. We were all moved to new determination. To every woman who would develop her talents to the fullest, Relief Society is a key to open the door of spiritual opportunity. Anniversary Day offers its challenge to each and all. Again let this. Be our creed ?Faith to Succeed.