A Way Of Life By Leone G. Layton WHAT does the Word of Wisdom mean to you? Has it helped you to a better way of life? Has it done for you that which was intended by our Father when He gave it? It is kind counsel, which, if understood and followed, directs us to the abundant life and protects us against insidious temptations to use things detrimental to our well being. In this day of alluring advertisements, our eyes are constantly drawn to beautiful - pictures conveying the idea that the perfect hostess serves wine on her table; we are told that certain products give us strength and vigor; our ears are beset with pleas to use things which we have been taught are harmful. Our Father foresaw our situation and forewarned us concerning it. Is it not comforting to have the sure word of the Lord to turn to? He explains to us as patiently as we would to a little child that certain things are not good for the body and further tells us the real uses for them. His concern is not for the few but for all His children, and each who will heed his counsel may have the promised treasures. We read so much about the Word of Wisdom, men's various interpretations of its meaning, but many of us do not read it frequently enough as it is given by our Father. Because of misunderstandings of its content and purpose it has become to some merely a document of limitations, of prohibitions, given to infringe upon personal liberties. Naturally, in homes where this attitude prevails the children are not given the proper understanding of its purpose in their lives. Two mothers were recently discussing this subject. Their sons were the same age and had the same general associates. They realized the fact that soon the boys would meet the temptation to smoke and must either succumb to or conquer it. One mother said, "I really am not 'very worried; we have tried to point out the real meaning of the first cigarette to our boy. He has studied the Word of Wisdom, and I believe he understands the counsel therein." The other mother said, ?Well, I'm sure of this, my boy will never stand for anyone calling him a sissy!" To the one boy, smoking a cigarette would mean a departure from the way of life he had chosen to follow; to the other boy, who feared ridicule, it would mean a way to prove himself the possessor of the type of bravado he called manhood. Will this second boy, as he grows older, scorn the counsel given by road signs put up for the safety of the motorist? Will he feel them a curtailment of his personal liberties and take to the sagebrush to prove his ability to manage his own affairs without following counsel? Our Father has been kind enough to post signs for us along the highway of life that we may travel with the greatest comfort and safety. Nephi said: "But the Lord knoweth all things from the beginning; wherefore he prepareth a way to accomplish all his works among the children of men; for behold, he hath all power unto the fulfilling of all his 108 - FEBRUARY, 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 words." (I Nephi 9:6) We know through recorded history that this has been true in past ages; then, it should be equally true for us. Is it not better to arrange our life pattern according to the direction of one who "knoweth all things from the beginning and prepareth a way" than to shortsightedly fear for our personal liberty and so take the wrong road in order to prove we still have it? Not once in Section 89 does our Kind Counselor say to us, "Thou shalt not!" But rather: "To be sent greeting; not by commandment or constraint, but by revelation and the word of wisdom, showing forth the order and will of God in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days? "Given for a principle with promise, adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all saints, who are or can be called saints." Who could read those words without feeling the love our Father has for us and the great desire He has for our welfare? Who, reading them, could feel in them a curtailment of personal choice? Later in the Section we read: "And it is pleasing unto me that they (flesh of the beasts and of fowls of the air) should not be used only in times of winter, or of cold, or famine. We hear on every hand today different theories regarding the use of meats?we should and we should not eat them. People discussing their particular beliefs readily become argumentative in defending them; our Father says to us, "It is pleasing to me." He further promises us treasures if we heed his counsel: "Health, strength, wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures." Are these things worth striving for? Let us then turn to our Doctrine' and Covenants and reread Section 89. Read the words of a kind Father pointing the way to an abundant life for His children. NO Latter-day Saint who understands the genius of his religion, will. Quibble as to whether the Word of Wisdom is a 'commandment' or the 'will' of God. Even a suggestion from Deity should be followed by willing and implicit obedience. The Lord does not expect his children to be commanded in all things, 'for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward'." (Doc. & Cov. 58:26.)