Mission Lessons
L. D. S. CHURCH HISTORY Lesson 8 The Church Moves West
THE mission to the Indians, of which we spoke in the preceding lesson, did not succeed in the sense that the natives were converted. A government agent in charge there, fearing that the message of the elders might over-excite them, forbade the white men to preach among them. And so Elders Cowdery and Pratt returned to Independence, which was a white settlement. As we already know, the purpose of the missionaries was to see if they could not interest the red men in the book about their forefathers. But the Lord, it seems, had another purpose in mind when he called these men to the frontier. You may remember that we mentioned this purpose in the preceding lesson, without saying what it was. For no sooner had the missionaries taken their departure than the Lord revealed to his prophet that the destiny of the New Movement lay in the West. It would appear, then, that the main aim of the expedition under Elder Cowdery was to prepare the way for the westward journey of the Church. Of course, the Church was not to go all the way to the West at once. As we know now, it was rather to go there by easy stages, gathering experiences on the way. For it was to be many years before the New Movement found its bitter way to what is now Utah.
WHILE the Indian mission was on the Missouri, two visitors from Kirtland, Ohio, came to Fayette, where the Prophet was living. They were Sidney Rigdon and Edward Partridge. At this time they were about forty-five years old. Rigdon, as we know already, was a member of the Church, but Partridge was not. Partridge had come to investigate further. He wanted to see the Prophet. He was baptized, however, the next day after he arrived. When these two men went back to their home, Joseph and his wife went with them. After that the Prophet and Emma made their home in Kirtland. In the spring of 1831 all the Saints living in New York moved to Ohio. They numbered about one hundred and eighty persons in all. Some of them settled in Kirtland, some in Mentor, where Rigdon lived, and some in a town near Kirtland, called Thompson. These emigrants, together with the one hundred and twenty already in Ohio, brought the membership of the new Church to about three hundred persons. That was not at all a poor showing in less than a year. A few converts had been made by the missionaries to the Indians, too. And then see how far-flung the organization was! With the arrival of the first birth-
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 143
day of the new Church we find its headquarters, not in Fayette, New York, but in Kirtland, Ohio. Here some changes took place in the organization itself.
AT first, the only officers in the organization were a first and a second elder. These were Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. Elder Cowdery held the office, also, of clerk, or historian. It was understood that the Prophet, as the first elder, should receive all the revelations for the Church. This simple organization was sufficient as long as the Church was just a large family, so to speak. But when it began to spread out and to increase in membership, some more offices became necessary. From the beginning, there were two degrees of priesthood in the Church?the Aaronic, or lesser, and the Melchizedek, or higher. In January, 1832, Joseph Smith was acknowledged as President of the High Priesthood. The Aaronic Priesthood, as you know, includes the offices of deacon, teacher, and priest; the Melchizedek, the offices of elder, seventy, and high priest. It was in Kirtland that the offices of seventy and high priest were created. When, therefore, the Prophet was acknowledged as President of the High Priesthood, it was the same as though he had been acknowledged as President of the Church, though this name did not come to be used till some time afterwards. A little more than a year later? on March 18, 1833?Joseph Smith was sustained as President of the Church. He chose as his counselors Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams. At this time Oliver Cowdery was in Missouri, editing a Church paper, The Evening and Morning Star. Thus, the organization stood until February, 1835, when the first quorum of Apostles in this dispensation was organized. The names of the men comprising this body of priesthood are: Thomas B. Marsh, David W. Patten, Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, Orson Hyde, William E. McLellin, Parley P. Pratt, Luke S. Johnson, William Smith, Orson Pratt, John F. Boynton, and Lyman E. Johnson. These men were chosen by the Three Witnesses to the Book of Mormon. The twelve Apostles are special witnesses of Christ in all the world, and are under the jurisdiction of the First Presidency. In December following?December 18, 1833?the first Presiding Patriarch of the Church was selected and ordained. He was Joseph Smith, Sr., father of the Prophet. The duty of the Patriarch is to give blessings to the members of the Church, who come to him for this purpose. Then, in the same year, the first quorum of Seventy was organized. Their names are: Joseph Young, Levi W. Hancock, James Foster, Daniel S. Miles, Josiah Butterfield, Salmon Gee, and John Gaylord. The Seventies work under the direction of the Apostles and the First Presidency. You will notice some new names in these two lists of men, names that we have never come upon before. This means that the Church, during these four years, continued to grow. As a matter of fact, it grew very rapidly. By 1835 it numbered many thousands. There were converts in
144 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
all the States of the American Union and in Canada.
IT soon became clear that the home of the new Church was not to be Kirtland, in Ohio, but Jackson county, in Missouri. When the Saints who lived in Colesville, New York, went to the West, they decided that they would like to go together. And that is what they did. There were about sixty of them at this time. They arrived in Ohio in a body. The Prophet, to whom these people were especially dear, asked them to settle in Thompson for the time being. In the summer of 1831, however, it was decided that the "Colesville Branch," as they came to be called, should go to Jackson county, Missouri. That place, it had been revealed, was to be the future home of the Saints, and there a magnificent temple was to be built. Other Saints joined the Saints from New York, till there was a large number of them on the way to "Zion," as the new home was called. "Zion," as you may know, means "the pure in heart". Latter-day Saints continued to settle in Jackson county till, by the year 1833, there were about twelve hundred of them in that place. They bought land there; they cultivated it; they built houses and barns; they established a school; they set up a press and published a periodical, The Morning and Evening Star; they began to publish the revelations to the Prophet in a book. Meantime, missionaries went everywhere in the United States, especially in Ohio, where they made many converts. And everywhere the various gifts of the Spirit were manifest?healing of the sick, speaking in new tongues, prophecy, casting out of evil spirits, and other gifts, such as were common in the early Church in Palestine. During this period, also, the principle of gathering was taught, the gathering place being Jackson county, Missouri. Of course, Kirtland was not abandoned. It was not desirable that everyone should go to Zion at the same time. And so Kirtland was built up. We shall see presently that a temple was erected there and dedicated. Everything looked bright for the new Church.
Questions
1. What was the purpose of the Indian mission? Did it succeed in that? What was another purpose?
2. What two places did the Saints occupy at this time? How many did they number when they went to Kirtland?
3. What new officers appear at this time? Tell about each.
4. What does the word "Zion" mean? Where was "Zion"?
5. How many Saints went there? How successful was the Church elsewhere?
Note: Map printed in the July issue of the Magazine is to be used in teaching Church History lessons.
The Relief Society Magazine