Julia A. Farnsworth Lund General Secretary-Treasurer of the Relief Society?1928-1939 By Annie Wells Cannon her duties in the Relief Society as a member of the General Board and from the office of secretary-treasurer, hosts of friends and admirers join in love and good will toward her with a heartfelt desire for her future success and happiness. No office in a great organization is in such touch with its membership as that of executive secretary. The office of secretary of the Relief Society, being executive as well as clerical, holds many responsibilities. It has always been filled by outstanding women, all of whom have had great influence in the functioning of the Organization. Mrs. Julia Lund has graced this high calling with the dignity and devotion of her predecessors. She became a member of the General Relief Society Board under the presidency of Mrs. Clarissa S. Williams in 1921 and was chosen to be secretary-treasurer by President Louise Y. Robison in 1928. One of her first duties as secretary was to open a box of documents which had been sealed and placed with the Church Historian fifty years earlier by Secretary Sarah M. Kimball. On that occasion, Mrs, Lund expressed a wish, as fervent as a prayer, that she might emulate the example of the great women who had preceded her. This she has aimed to do throughout her years of service. Julia Farnsworth Lund unites in A S Mrs. Julia Lund retires from ? herself a wealth of tradition and environment which give her a distinctive personality in any station or place. She has a goodly heritage, descended from a line of early Americans who helped establish our great Republic both as soldiers and statesmen. Julia was born in Beaver City, Utah, December 2, 1874, the eldest daughter of Philo T. And Julia P. Murdock Farnsworth. She was a beautiful and gifted girl, and even as a child gave evidence of the fine qualities that have so marked her as an intellectual and social leader. In early years she had the opportunity of assisting her mother in the entertainment of many men and women of note, among whom might be mentioned Colonel Thomas _L. Kane and General Philip H. Sheridan of Civil War fame. Her father, a prosperous mining man and mayor of Beaver, and her grandfather Murdock, legislator and stake president, naturally led in all such entertainment, and both homes were noted as delightful and hospitable gathering places. From the elementary schools, one year at the Beaver Stake Academy, and three years at the Brigham Young University at Provo, Julia attended the state university, where she graduated with a degree of Bachelor of Arts. At intervals since her college days, she has continued her education along special lines connected with her work as writer, teacher, lecturer, and social worker. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

, FEBRUARY - 85 JULIA A. F. LUND Besides special courses at the Utah University, she had a course in Adult Education at the University of California. She has repeatedly participated at the Leadership Week at Brigham Young University, at Burley, Idaho, Ricks College at Rexburg and five of the Idaho University Vacation Camps. She was a popular instructor in Theology and English at the Latter-day Saint College, and held the important posi- 86 - FEBRUARY, 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 tion of Educational Director at the Salt Lake Civic Center of which organization she was a member of the Board of Directors. These scholastic acquirements made her a valuable member in the educational department of the Relief Society. Her committee work in Theology, Literature, and the Eliza R. Snow Memorial Poem Contest was quite outstanding. A brilliant scholar and a charming gitl, Julia was often selected for important public service. When nineteen years old, she attended the World's Congress of Women at Chicago in 1893, as a representative of the Young Women of Utah, where she delivered an address before a most notable gathering. In 1896, she was appointed secretary of the Republican State Central Committee and read the first Call and Platform of the State Republican Party. When the General Federation of Women's Clubs met in Denver, she was state chairman of correspondence for Utah, and in 1899 she represented the Utah Society Daughters of the Revolution at Philadelphia; of this organization she is a charter member. Mrs. Lund attended the International Council of Women held in Chicago in 1933 going from there to Nauvoo, Illinois where she participated in the unveiling of the Relief Society monument, giving an address on "Emma Smith The Mother". She has traveled extensively throughout the stakes of Zion in the interest of the Relief Society and in a recent trip visited the Oahu Stake and. The Hawaiian Mission. She has received many letters thanking her for her helpfulness and instruction while on these visits. Mrs. Lund is a valuable member of the Executive Committee of the Utah Conference of Social Work and the Salt Lake Chapter of the Red Cross. With all these varied activities, Julia Lund has maintained a beautiful home life. In September, 1900, she became the wife of Henry C. Lund, a promising young attorney, the son of Anthon H. Lund of the First Presidency of the Church, thus uniting two of the stalwart and prominent families of the state. To this happy union seven children were born, six of whom are living. September 5, 1925, death entered this blessed household, taking away her beloved companion. Though crushed with sorrow, Julia Lund realized her added responsibilities, and with courage and fortitude has been a remarkable mother to her fatherless children, providing, besides necessary requirements, college educations and cultural opportunities worthy of their talents and heritage; all are making good in their different pursuits, one son having followed his father's profession of law, one daughter engaging in social work and one specializing in art. A Latter-day Saint woman of innate refinement, a brilliant mind, a lover and interpreter of good books and "all things that are most excellent" it is a joy to know her and call her friend 22 SOUTH REDWOOD ROAD if LAKE CITY, UTAH 4107