FROM THE FIELD By Vera W. Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer
Relief Society Stake Parties Honoring "Members Old, Members New"
North Weber Stake
THE North Weber Stake Relief Society Board annually entertains ward workers at the close of each season's activities. Ericka Soderberg, who is leader of the Work and Business Department, has planned this entertainment for nine successive years, making each party interestingly different from the preceding ones. The close of the 1939 season was marked by a midsummer outing where increased membership was emphasized. Each member of the local organizations was asked to bring as a guest a friend who was not active in the Relief Society and to provide a basket luncheon for herself and guest. The idea was well liked and more than three hundred women attended the party. A program given before luncheon carried out the spirit of comradeship and cooperation. It was arranged by Stake Music Director Eliza R. Kerr and Organist Julia D. Bingham and featured original and surprising numbers. Perhaps outstanding was the "Blue and Gold" drill presented by Mrs. Helvia Upton, stake coordinator, wherein twenty-five women, beautifully costumed, depicted by their various drill formations the objective of reaching the membership goal. The group also sang "Come Buy Our Magazine," a song written especially for the occasion by Stake Magazine Agent Laura M. Jenkins. Mrs. Julia E. Parry, who was president of North Weber Stake Relief Society at the time of this party, has since resigned, and Mrs. Nellie W. Neal was appointed president on September 30, 1939.
South Davis Stake
"MOTHERS' Half Holiday" is the catchy designation for the unusually successful stake-wide mothers' party given annually by the South Davis Stake Relief Society, of which Ella M. Williams is president. The following report of the 1939 entertainment held in May was written by Millie P. Walton, stake coordinator: "Our 'Mothers' Half Holiday' for this year was a splendid success. Over five hundred mothers participated in the delightful program, social and luncheon. The chapel was beautifully decorated with a profusion of garden flowers that lent a gala atmosphere to the occasion. "Especially honored at the beginning of the program were the oldest members, in years of service, from each ward. Forty of these faithful workers, with records of active service ranging from thirty to fifty years, were introduced to the assembly, and each was presented with a lovely corsage. At the program's close, the new members gained during this year's membership drive were featured. The total gain in each ward was announced as each ward group, with its coordinator, was presented.
NEW MEMBERS OF THE SOUTH DAVIS STAKE
As the entire band of new workers took its place on the stage to the strains of our rally song, every one in the audience was thrilled and deeply grateful to know that South Davis Stake, with its 183 new members, had more than doubled its required quota for the year. "The accompanying photograph is of the new members present on that occasion."
Bear River Stake
THE Bear River Stake Relief Society, according to a report by Ella M. Peck, secretary, held a social for the entire membership and for prospective members on September 20, 1939, in Garland, Utah. Each ward had been invited to prepare an exhibit demonstrating a project conducted. During the preceding summer. The following twenty projects had been suggested by the Stake Board for summer work: Any Phase of Homemaking; Proper Table Service; Children's Clothing; Aprons; Cotton Dresses; Home-knit Wearing Apparel; Needlework?any kind; Rug Making?any kind; Flower Display; Flower Arrangement? Stake Board; Homemade Soap; Party Favors; Crochet, Tatting, Netting or any other type of handicraft; Remodeled Clothing; Salads; Handicrafts Brought up to Date; Handicraft of the Pioneers; Homemade Candies, Cookies, Cakes, etc; What is New in Kitchen Equipment, Quilts, Old and New. As a result, the fall display and social featured thirteen ward exhibits, an exhibit by the county nurses, and one by the stake officers, all of which were very fine. A beautiful floral Membership Arch was made by the coordinators and also a very attractive banner in Relief Society colors, with the slogan, "Members Old, Members New, One Hundred Thousand by '42". A special feature of the program was a pageant depicting the Relief Society Magazine under the direction of Stake Representative Zina Stander. Following the program, daughters of the officers served dainty refreshments to the three hundred and fifty women who were present. The Bear River Stake Board has found great value in an annual social for all Relief Society members, which brings the wards together, extends acquaintanceship, and fosters the exchange of ideas. Clara H. Fridal is president of this enterprising stake Relief Society.