DEPARTMENT Theology and Testimony Lesson 8 Paul the Writer REFERENCES H. E. Dana, New Testament Criticism, ch. XVI. F. W. Farrar, The Life and Work of St. Paul. Consult table of contents to find particular epistles. See also Appendix, Excursus III. Edgar J. Goodspeed, An Introduction to the New Testament. Consult table of contents to find particular epistles. Kirsopp Lake and Silva Lake, An Introduction to the New Testament, Chaps. V-XV, XX. THE PRESERVATION, NATURE, AND EXTENT OF PAUL'S WRITINGS.?How does it happen that we have any of Paul's letters?- When one considers the fact that early Christianity was subjected to so much persecution from without, and the further fact that apostasy became widespread within, it seems almost a miracle that any of Paul's writings were preserved at all. We should remember, however, that Paul's was a writing age. Books were abundant and the dictation of letters a commonplace. It was relatively easy to multiply and spread abroad copies of sermons or letters of prominent men, whether in or out of the Church. In the days of Paul, the ordinary size of the papyrus sheet used for letter writing was five by ten inches. Papyrus sheets of ordinary grade were often sold in rolls of about twenty sheets. One sheet would cost approximately twenty-five cents in our money. It is not likely that Paul or any of the other apostles ever used more expensive grades of papyrus. Public letter writers or scribes were common then as they are now in the Near East. Paul seems to have dictated most of his letters to such individuals or to competent brethren in the Church who volunteered their services. Note Romans 16-22 where we read: "I Tertius, who wrote this epistle, salute you in the Lord." Some students may wonder why Paul didn't write the letters himself rather than to dictate them. A glance at Galatians 6:11 may help us to understand. Usually, the body of his letters was written by his amanuensis, but to it he occasionally added a little in his own hand to give a warm personal touch. Thus, in I Connthians 16:21 we find him saying: "The salutation of me Paul with mine own hand." Note also II Thessalonians 3-17 where he says: "The salutation of Paul with mine own hand, which is the token in every epistle: so I write." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 127 As already indicated, the fact that the age of Paul was a literary one helped to preserve some of his letters, because they would be copied and sent to many branches of the Church (Col. 4:16) and to individuals as well. But this fact alone would not be sufficient to account for their preservation. An examination of Paul's letters at once shows that they are of great excellence and contain warm personal sentiments that would endear the writer to his audience. In his second letter to the Corinthians (10:10) there is revealed the fact that even his critics had to pay tribute to his writings. "For his letters, say they, are weighty and powerful." Judged by a critical audience of Greeks, Paul's personal appearance left much to be desired, but concerning his writings there was no question of their appeal and worth. Paul took care that his letters should be forceful and adequate. That surely helped to preserve them. Another reason?particularly appreciated by Latter-day Saints?that some of Paul's letters were preserved is that ancient branches of the Church kept records. Correspondence, particularly from an apostle, was very likely filed among the local records and preserved. Christ ordered records kept among the Nephites, and there is good reason to suppose that the early church in the Roman world would receive like commands (See III Nephi 23:7-13; D. & C. 7). Partial preservation of Church records through the darkest hours of Roman persecution probably insured for all time that some of Paul's letters would be known to the world. The statement made in D. & C. 93:18 should merit the reader's closest consideration and reflection. Probably many records of the Ancient Church were hidden and will yet come forth. Let us hope that more letters of Paul will be forthcoming. Some writers give the impression that the letters of the great apostle to the Gentiles were written in great haste to meet given situations. This idea is often pressed too far, because a close examination will disclose the fact that most of them were carefully and deliberately thought out. Professor E. F. Scott puts it well when he says, "In Epistles like those to the Romans and Ephesians he presents a sustained argument which must have been fully worked out before pen was put to paper. Even in point of language, the great passages have evidently been composed with studied art. It can be shown by analysis that every word in these passages has been deliberately chosen, the cadence of each sentence has been molded, as in the work of a great poet, with a view to a given effect. Such writing cannot have been improvised. In these letters, which seem to have the ease and naturalness of familiar conversation, Paul has given us the ripest fruits of his mind." Even in a short private letter such as to Philemon, Paul has carefully thought out the substance of the request he makes and, as Dr. Scott observes, never loses sight of the man he is writing to. An interesting allusion is made in II Pet. 3:15, 16 to the difficult matter in certain letters of Paul. "Even as our beloved brother Paul also according to the wisdom given unto him hath written unto you; As also in all his epistles, speaking 128 - FEBRUARY, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE in them of these things; in which are some things hard to be understood, which they that are unlearned and unstable wrest, as they do also the other scriptures, unto their own destruction." Fourteen epistles are traditionally ascribed to Paul. Of these, thirteen bear his name, the one exception being Hebrews which is not thought by many scholars to have been written by the apostle. THE PEOPLE TO WHOM PAUL WROTE.?Scholars have in the past differed widely and still differ as to whether Paul was the author of all the epistles attributed to him. For our purposes here we shall assume that he wrote them all. The people to whom the apostle wrote his letters may for convenience be grouped into two classes: (1) community groups in the various branches of the Church, and (2) individuals. The first class includes those mentioned in Romans, Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, Thessalonians and Hebrews. The second includes Timothy, Titus and Philemon. Now what kind of people were those included in the first group? It is often erroneously supposed that the "Romans," "Corinthians," "Hebrews," etc., to whom Paul wrote were all peoples of distinctly separate nationalities. That is not so. As a matter of fact, many of the "Romans," "Corinthians," "Galatians," etc., were Hebrews, being Jews. On the other hand, some of the "Hebrews" were possibly Romans in a double sense; that is, they were either Roman citizens?Paul is a good example?or called Romans because they lived in Rome; they may have been "Corinthians" simply by virtue of the fact that they lived in Corinth?and so on. The chances are very good that a large proportion of Paul's converts in the Roman world were Jews either by birth or by conversion. Professor J. G. Machen has fittingly said: "It is hard to exaggerate the service which was rendered to the Pauline mission by the Jewish synagogue. One of the most important problems for every missionary is the problem of gaining a hearing. The problem may be solved in various ways. Sometimes the missionary may hire a place of meeting and advertise; sometimes he may talk on the street corners to passers-by. But for Paul the problem was solved. All that he needed to do was to enter the synagogue and exercise the privilege of speaking, which was accorded with remarkable liberality to visiting teachers. In the synagogue, moreover, Paul found an audience not only of Jews but also of Gentiles; everywhere the 'God-fearers' were to be found. These Gentile attendants upon the synagogues formed not only an audience but a picked audience; they were just the class of persons who were most likely to be won by the Gospel preaching. In their case, much of the preliminary work had been accomplished; they were already acquainted with the doctrine of the one true God; they had already, through the lofty ethical teaching of the Old Testament, come to connect religion with morality in a way which is to us a matter-of-course but was very exceptional in the ancient world. Where, as in the market-place at Athens, Paul had to begin at the
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE, FEBRUARY - 129
very beginning, without presupposing this previous instruction on the part of his hearers, his task was rendered far more difficult. "Undoubtedly, in the case of many of his converts he did have to begin in that way; the First Epistle to the Thessalonians, for example, presupposes, perhaps, converts who turned directly from idols to serve the living and true God. But even in such cases the 'God-fearers' formed a nucleus; their manifold social relationships provided points of contact with the rest of the Gentile population. The debt which the Christian Church owes to the Jewish synagogue is simply measureless." Many of the Gentiles converted to the Church were Greeks or other people brought under the sway of Roman rule. Of the individuals in the second group Timothy was the son of a Greek father and a Jewish mother (Acts 16:1-3); Titus was a Greek and so presumably was Philemon.
LOST EPISTLES OF PAUL.? It is clear from Paul's letters that he wrote others that are now lost. In fact, it is quite probable that we have only a few of those he actually wrote. When writing I Corinthians, Paul makes mention of a previous letter he had written. "I wrote unto you in an epistle," he says (5:9). The same thing probably occurs in II Cor. 2:4. "For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote unto you with many tears." This epistle seems to have come in point of time between our I Corinthians and II Corinthians. Paul says of it later (II Cor. 7:8), "For though I made you sorry with a letter, I do not repent, though I did repent: for I perceive that the same epistle hath made you sorry, though it were but for a season." Note also Col. 4:16 where Paul urges that "When this epistle is read among you, cause that it be read also in the Church of the Laodiceans; and that ye likewise read the epistle from Laodicea." The letter from Laodicea is thought by some to be our Ephesians. In the oldest list of Paul's letters known to us, that of Marcian (c. A. D. 140), it appears by the title of "Laodiceans". All of these facts helps to make the writings of Paul more interesting and understandable to us.
Questions and Problems (Deal only with those that time and circumstances permit)
1. Let a member of the class report on writing materials and writing in Paul's day.
2. What were the circumstances that called forth Paul's letters to the Galatians and the Thessalonians?