THE Salt Lake City Council of Women's Committee on Finnish Relief, of which Mrs. J. L. Jones is Chairman, wishes to thank the women of Salt Lake City and the State of Utah for the generous response they made to the call for help in this worth while cause in behalf of a people who have proven themselves worthy of the deepest regard by the citizens of the United States. In responding to the call for funds to supply food, shelter and clothing for a group of unfortunates who have been forced, through war, to leave their homes and take up residence at a distance from the front lines, we feel that the women of Salt Lake City and Utah have rendered an humanitarian service. "Cast your bread upon the waters and in many days it shall return" may be said of the Finnish people who showed the true Christian spirit of honesty in their attempt to pay their War Debt to the United States. We wish it were possible to thank each woman individually and say that by your acts you may be helping to stem the tide of communism and uphold democracy in assisting a Christian people to maintain their land free and Christianized. Other members of the Women's Committee who have worked diligently are: Mrs. John T. Wahlquist, Mrs. Winifred P. Ralls, Miss Elise Madsen, Mrs. W. E. Best, Mrs. Junius Hayes, and the members of the Board of the Salt Lake City Council of Women, also the officers of the P. T. A., The National Women's Relief Society, The Y. W. M. I. A., The Primary Association, and The District Federation of Women's Clubs.
Sincerely, Mrs. L. A. Stevenson. President Salt Lake City Council of Women.
Born of pioneer blood and soil, Nurtured and trained by a life of toil, Cultured and graced from an inner light. Chosen of God to defend the right, Silent and mute, he walked apart, Hopes and yearnings locked deep in his heart. Words cannot tribute this God-given life, Shining through darkness. Struggle, and strife; Mightier far than the words of pen Triumphs his name in the hearts of men. Symbol of brotherhood, charity, love. Faith in the right and His Maker above. ?Mabel Jones.