MISCELLANEOUS.

	During the month of November, more
than two hundred deer have been killed in
Atlantic county, New Jersey, by gunners,
and still they are very numerous.

	A man died of starvation in the streets
of Edinburgh, Scotland, recently, and on re-
moving his clothing, two hundred and fifty
dollars were found concealed about his per-
son.

	THE EMINENT English astronomer, Mr. 
R. A. Proctor, says that the people of
America are in advance of those of Europe
in the general attention given to science.
The question is, did it require the use of a
telescope for him to discover that?

	The winds of fortune blow as variously as
the winds of heaven. In life there are many
storms, and there are few persons who be-
tween the cradle and grave are not caught
in a hurricane. Whether the result of acci-
dental circumstance or the outcome of hu-
man passions, it is certain that tempestuous
events overtake most men, and that skies
bright and serene will change their silver
light for darker, and often vengeful hues.

	At Cohoes a man died some twenty years ago,
leaving a widow and infant daughter. A large share
of property was bequeathed to the child, but in
case of her death before the age of twenty it was
to go to her cousin. She grew up delicate in health,
and as she approached the fatal limit the mother
and cousin bargained over the chances of life. Fi-
nally the cousin sold his chances of the inheritance
for $4,000, and because the girl died before she
was twenty he sued the mother to recover the en-
tire property, alleging that he was deceived as to
the state of the girl's health. The courts say that
won't do; he must stand by his bargain.

	A young girl of fourteen, living in the
town of Albion, N. Y., has proved herself
to be of heroic stuff. She and a five-year-
old brother went into the woods a few days
since, on a nutting excursion, and becoming
lost, they were compelled to remain all night
without shelter. To protect her little broth-
er, the noble girl stripped off her outer gar-
ments, and soothing him to quiet and sleep
in her arms, sat through the long and dreary
hours while her own limbs were freezing.
When found the next forenoon, she was un-
able to stand on her feet, but the physicians
hope to be able to save her life and limbs.
We hope they will succeed.

	THE BIRTH-PLACE of Professor Louis John
Rudolph Agassiz, was Motiers, Switzerland,
and his birth-day, May 28th, 1807. It is
said of him, that whether his hearers agreed
with his opinions or condemned them,
whether they were capable of grasping the
thread of his consummate arguments, or
failed to appreciate the single hearted devo-
tion with which he embraced the study of
science for itself alone; or whether, con-
scious of inferiority, they shrank from the
encounter, their sympathies were irresisti-
bly drawn towards him; and the magic of
his voice, his winning smile and the sinceri-
ty of his purpose, gained their trust and con-
fidence.


