WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
			THAT BILL
	The perusal of the new Frelinghuysen Bill
has filled me with indignation; and being,
for the present at least,an American Citizen,
I take the liberty to express my opinion on
the subject.
	First, I would like to know how any man
dares to call himself a son and citizen of
this liberal Republic while advocating such
arbitrary measures. Not content, it seems,
with trammeling the free action of the Ter-
ritorial Legislature, he would even enslave
the future State by having it enacted by
Congress that “no laws shall hereafter be
passed conflicting with the provisions of this
Act.” One Act, at least, in the code of the
future State must remain immutable as the
laws of the Medes and Persians! Then this
Sovereign Slave, Deseret, may fold her arms
and content herself with observing the pro-
gress of Sister States in this direction until
lost to her view, and she left alone in her
chains.
	How pure and exalted is the friendship,
how tender and winning the sympathy
which this bill holds out to a large class of
virtuous and high-minded women in this
Territory!
	If they will repudiate the honorable name
of wife,and, by their own admissions, stamp
their children as illegitimate, they may
have—a suitable proportion of their hus-
band's property! How magnanimous the
offer! how charming the prospect!!
	Does Mr. Frelinghuysen, or any person of
sound mind, for one moment imagine that
there is money enough even represented by
the National Debt to buy from one of Utah’s
right-minded daughters her children’s birth-
right? her own proud sense of honor? or her
steadfast faith that she is walking in the
straight and narrow way which leads to life
everlasting? I fear he judges her by report
and not from personal acquaintance.
	Then, again can any unprejudiced person
call it just that we be deprived of our fran-
chise at the whim of interested or disinter-
ested politicians who make not even a pre-
tense of showing a reason for it? And that 
too, not only for a season, with the hope of
regaining, at some future day,the great loss,
but since “No Act shall hereafter be passed
&c.,” though all sister States might enfran-
chise their daughters, Utah might not do
the same.
	Although woman suffrage is here yet a
bold and unsupported fact, though no wo-
man has yet been called to serve on a jury
nor elected by vote to any civil office, I
doubt if Mr, Frelinghuysen himself, values
his vote more than I do mine, if I am a wo-
man; for I look upon it as the concession of
the government that daughters are human
as well as sons, and as a stepping stone to
all other privileges; so I maintain, not only
my inherent right to a voice in the laws I
must obey, but that the very least the“Pow-
ers that be” can do for us is to give us a fair
chance and plenty of time to prove whether
we are not at least as well qualified to make
good use of the ballot as a freedman or a
foreigner. Then as for the insinuation some
cast upon us that we dare not vote other-
wise than as our husbands dictate, or that
neither male nor female voters dare vote ex-
cept as the Church authorities think best,
I can say for the former that so far as my
information extends, there is not a shadow
of truth in it; and for the latter I have struck
off an objectionable name from the ticket
which most church members voted entire and
witnessed the numbering of it, without the
remotest idea that any disagreeable con-
sequences to myself would follow.
	It would be hard indeed, if after having

[Column 2]
tasted the sweets of liberty, we were to be
remanded to the level of idiots and felons.
And by the provisions of this most unre-
publican bill we are to be subjected to the
old common law which gives all a wife’s in-
herited property, earnings, children, person,
all but life itself to her husband’s absolute
control; thus in all save that one reservation,
setting her on a level with domestic ani-
mals. What have we done to merit such
overwhelming kindness as this?
	But, as I said in the beginning,I am only
surprised and indignant at the effort being
made, not alarmed about the result. we poor
Minor Children of the Union have too many
friends among those who have attained to
their majority, and Woman Suffrage and
equal rights as principles have too many
friends for such measures to be counten-
anced. God speed the day when not only
we, but all women may enjoy franchise and
all kindred privileges unquestioned.
							L.L.D.


