EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A CHANGE of the suffrage laws of France
is proposed, by which 4,000,000 persons
would be deprived of franchise. The Ter-
ritories of the United States of America are
not alone in their struggle for freedom.
	THE FOGGY weather, of which Salt Lake
has had a few slight touches during the past
two or three weeks, seems to be making a
general business of calling all around this
winter. London has been considerably dis-
turbed over its rather protracted visits there;
and later, New York has been a scene of
gloomy dismay for a whole day, while the
rude, uninvited guest, hung boldly about
that city.
	LATE REPORTS of the progress of the pro-
jected Centennial are flattering. Philadel-
phia urges, that the affair is a national one
and deserves the hearty support of the en-
tire country; and New York cordially ac-
cedes. The Board of Finance has so far
confined its operations principly to Penn-
sylvania, and citizens and corporations of
that State have subscribed $3,500,000. The
prospects for foreign participation are very
encouraging.
	PROFESSOR ORTON is publishing an in-
teresting description of the new exploration
of the Amazon River, in the "Scientific
American.” In an account of the city of
Moyobamba, he says:—The only case of
drunkenness we have seen was that of a
priest.	*	*	It is a novel sight to see the
long procession of women, who are the water
carrriers of the city, descending and ascend-
ing the deep barrancas at eventide, with
pitchers on their heads, while the young
Lotharios lie in wait to make love to their
Rebeccas.
	IT IS a false impression which many peo-
ple labor under, that without there is an
abundance of wealth to be expended on a
home, it cannot be a pleasant, happy one.
A cheerful heart requires and will make a
cheerful home. There may not be elegant
pictures or costly drapery to look upon, nor
the dulcet sounds of instrumental music to
listen to. But there can be smiling faces
full of love and tenderness, which are the
most beautiful of all pictures; and songs of
joy and gladness, and words of sympathy
and fond endearment, which are the sweet-
est of all sounds.
	KEEP THE little ones warm. We cannot
help wondering what the conscience and
feelings of mothers must be made of, when
we see tiny little arms and knees come into
Sabbath School or meeting, half or entirely
naked, when there is snow on the ground
and biting frost in the air. What do moth-
ers who dress their children thus, think of?
Can it be possible that they never go out
themselves, to know how necessary warm,
comfortable clothing is, especially in winter?
They should venture out with bare legs and
arms, before sending their children out thus.
If young girls from l5 to 20 years of age,
have no better taste or judgment than to go
with bare or thinly covered arms and shoul-
ders, they have, themselves, to suffer the
consequences, But persons having the care
of little children, should know that it is
their duty, as far as possible, to see that they
are seasonably clothed.


