HUMOROUS.

	A “CHEST protector.”—A good padlock.

	THE MOST steadfast followers of our for-
tunes.—Our creditors.

	WHEN YOU have reached your bottom dol-
lar, let it alone.

	WHY ARE clergymen like brakeman?
Because they do a good deal of coupling.

	A DETROIT picture dealer says the hard-
est work he has had to do is to frame excuses.

	SPINER THINKS some of the fashionable
church singing is done upon the high-drawl-
ic principle. 

	"ARE OYSTERS healthy?" asked an old
lady of her physician. "I never heard any
of them complain of being unwell," was the
reply.
	
	JUDGE HOAR once said of a lawyer: "He
has reached the superlative life; at first he
sought to get on, and then he sought to get
honor, and now he is trying to get honest."

	AN EDITOR wrote: "We have received a
basket of strawberries from Mr. Smith, for
which he will receive our compliments, some
of which are four inches in circumference."

	AN EDITOR out West became martial, and
was made a captain. On parade, instead of
"two paces in front—advance,” he uncon-
sciously exclaimed, “cash—two dollars a
year in advance."

	WHILE MR. Bean of Hallowell was cross-
ing the railway track, his sleigh was struck
by a train and stove into kindling wood.
As many times as kindling wood has gone
into stoves, this is the first recorded instance
of a stove into kindling wood.

	A DETROIT boy stood an umbrella, with a
cord tied to it, in a public door-way. Elev-
en persons thought that umbrella was theirs,
and carried it with them the length of the
string. They then suddenly dropped it and
went off without once looking back or stop-
ping to pick it up again.

	SHERIDAN WAS much annoyed in the
House of Commons by a member who kept
constantly crying, "Hear! hear! The witty
orator described a fellow who wanted to play
rogue, but had only sense enough to play
fool, and exclaimed with great emphasis,
"Where shall we find a more foolish knave,
or a more knavish fool than he?" "Hear,
hear!,' shouted the troublesome member.
Sheridan turned round, and thanking him
for the prompt information, sat down amid
a general roar of laughter.


