HOME FEELING.
			—
	O ye fathers and mothers who have sons
and daughters growing up around you, do you
ever think of your responsibility in this re-
gard—your responsibility for keeping alive
the home sentiment in the hearts of your
children? Within the limits of your means,
remember that the obligation rests on you
to make their home the pleasantest place on
this rolling earth; to make the word“home”
for them the synonym for “happiness.” I
would not have you import the vices of the
outside world into your homes for any pur-
pose; but I would have you go to the utmost
verge of what is moral, to provide at home
those things which entice young and grow-
ing persons away from home. Let me assure
you that you had better spend your money
in doing this than in ostentation or luxury,
and far, far better spend it thus, than to
amass a fortune for your children to squan-
der in the future. And not only as regards
amusements, but also comfort and refinement,
for children have a keen appreciation for
these things—this is much the best policy.
Don’t send your boy to school in illfitting
garments, collar all awry and chafing his
neck, buttons missing and shoes down at the
heel, don’t make a warehouse or clothes-press
of his room. Don't feed him on sour bread,
and tough meat, and burnt coffee. Don,t let
noise and dissension and misrule spoil the
hours he spends at home. Don’t do any of
these things if you can possibly avoid it,
especially don’t do them for the pur-
pose of laying up money for his future
use. The richest legacy you can leave
him is a life-long inextinguishable and fra-
grant recollection of his home, when time
and death have forever dissolved the en-
chantment. Give him that, and he will, in
the strength of it, make his own way in the
world; but let his recollections of home be
repulsive, and the fortune you may leave
him will be a poor compensation for the loss
of that tenderness of heart and purity of
life which not only a pleasant home, but the
memory of one, would have secured. Re-
member this, too, that, while he will never
feel grateful for your money when once you
are under ground, he will go to your green
grave and bless your very ashes for that
sanctuary of quiet, comfort and refinement
into which you may, if you possess the
means, transform your home.
							R. N. Y.


In middle life we hesitate to sit in judg-
ment upon any one; we read slowly and
reverently the untranslated scripture of an-
others heart; but in youth we are confident,
and assign motives and intentions as glibly
as children pretend to read nursery tales
which they have learned by rote.—Celia Bur-
leigh.


