FLOWERS.

	It matters not so much how a man dies,
but how he lives.
	The rays of happiness, like those of light,
are colorless when unbroken.
	That is true plenty, not to have, but not
to want, riches.—St. Chrysostom.
	Almost the best rule of life is to be wor-
thy of one’s self.—S. P. Herron.
	Solitude shows us what we should be, so-
ciety shows us what we are.—Cecil.
	Every temptation is great or small accord-
ing as the man is.—Jeremy Taylor.
	Plato says that God has so framed His laws
that it is for the advantage of every one to
observe them.
	The bread of life is love; the salt of life
is work; the sweetness of life is poesy; the
water of life, faith.—Jameson.
	No man is born into the world whose work
is not born with him; there is always work
and tools to work with for all those who will,
and blessed are the heavy hands of all toil.
—Lowell.
	MRS. HAMMOND, who, with her husband
and three children, was lost in the Ville du
Havre, was a daughter of M. Charles Hip-
peau, an eminent French historian and an-
tiquarian.
	Confucius said: “To dwell with a good
man is like entering a house wherein are the
fragrant 'lan' flowers; after a while you may
not seem to smell the fragrance, because
your whole person has become impregnated
with the fragrance."
	Choose Good Friends.—There is nothing
which contributes more to the sweetness of
life than friendship; there is nothing which
disturbs our repose more than friends, if we
have not the discernment to choose them
well.
	Good, kind, true, holy words, dropped in
conversation, may be little thought of, but
they are like seeds of flowers or fruitful trees
falling by the wayside, borne by some birds
afar; haply, therefore,to fringe with beauty
some barren mountain side, or to make glad
some lonely wilderness.
	A poetical writer has said that some men
move through life as a band of music moves
down the street, flinging out pleasure on
every side through the air to every one, far
and near, that can listen. Some men fill the
air with their strength and sweetness, as
the orchards in October days fill the air with
ripe fruit. Some women cling to their own
houses like the honeysuckle over the door;
yet, like it, fill all the region with the subtle
fragrance of their goodness. How great a
bounty and blessing it is so to hold the roy-
al gifts of the soul that they shall be music
to some, fragrance to others, and life to all!
It would be no unworthy thing to live for,
to make the power which we have within
us the breath of other men’s joys; to fill the
atmosphere which they stand in with a
brightness which they cannot create for
themselves.


