AT THE 14TH WARD NEW YEAR'S PIC-NIC.

	To our Parents, Friends, Patrons of our
Sunday School and the Priesthood of our
Ward: we bid you a hearty welcome to this
our Jubilee.
	We have this day entered upon the com-
mencement of a New Year. And as we are
taught that we are living in the latter days,
when mighty events are to succeed each
other in rapid succession; the great purposes
of the Almighty to be accomplished; and
all the unfulfilled prophecies of past ages to
be fulfilled; we hope and trust that this may
be a year to which we may all look back, in
the future, with joy, pride and thanksgiv-
ing. With joy that the kingdom of God is
increasing and growing on every side, and
in every good thing. With pride that we
have each one kept the commandments of
God, and performed all faithfully our part,
in the great work of life. And with thanks-
giving to our Heavenly Father who has per-
mitted us to live in this dispensation, to take
part in his mighty work, and for preserving
us from our enemies, and from the evils that
surround us on every side.
	To my young friends and companions I
would say: as time rolls swiftly on, let us
try to fit and prepare ourselves, by diligence
and obedience for the great work that lies
before us; let us seek to emulate the noble
examples of those who have grown gray in
planting the principles of truth firmly upon
the earth, and who, with the blessings of
God, have made us what we are to-day, no-
ble sons of noble sires. Let us follow in
their footsteps, that in good time we may
be qualified to take the burden from their
shoulders, and carry on the good work they
have so nobly begun. This is the line of
our duty: our parents pray for it. Our lead-
ers expect it. Our Heavenly Father de-
mands it as the price of our salvation and
exaltation. God grant that their prayers,
expectations and demands be not in vain.
	To the Daughters of Zion, our Sisters, we
would say: Let us be united in this great
work, and move side by side in all the great
reforms of the latter days. Let us put from
us, all that vanity and pride of wealth, dress,
and station, that is lurking around, and
striving to fasten itself upon us: Let us
hurl from us those hideous fashions, that so
terribly deform and disfigure the human
form divine; as something that is degrading
and corrupting. Let us remember who, and
what we are. Let us try to realize our true
position—that we are the children of the
chosen people of God, princes and princesses
of the royal blood of Joseph.
	All honor to the Priesthood, who have
taught, and are still teaching us the princi-
ples of truth and righteousness: Honor to
our teachers who labor for our well being,
and happiness: Honor to our parents who
seek to train us up in the paths that lead to
life and salvation.
	Again; we, the children here assembled
bid you welcome; and through your humble
servant, a Happy New Year.

