HOUSEHOLD HINTS.

	Since obedience of the right kind is not the mere
outward acknowledgment of superior power, but
must arise from the heart, we must make it our
study to win and keep the respect, confidence, and
love of our charge. We have great help here in
the natural relation existing between parent and
child, and which, ordained of God, shows His will
in this respect. The child's instinct leads it to
the mother with its first love, its first longings
for help or sympathy; and this bond should be
stronger as the years go on. But how often,
through thoughtlessness, is the love cooled, the
confidence repressed, the respect lessened! Mother,
mourning because your child does not trust you as
you wish, because  your hold is loosened when
temptations crowd and restraint is most needed,
look back! Do you find no fault in yourself?
Were you always at leisure to return your child's
caress, or did "much serving" make you forget
that a heart may go half starved while the body is
fed? In your anxiety to fashion comely garments
for your family, were you not slowly weaving a
mantle of reserve to shroud the yearning soul from
your sight? We know interesting girls and boys
to confide to the listening ear of a wise teacher
things of greatest moment, with the remark—"I
never could tell this to my mother; she never talks
to me as you do." Mothers, give heed to this
gentle hint. Study the natures of your children,
and treat them accordingly.
	Spiced Fruits.—To seven pounds of fruit add
three pounds of sugar, one pint of vinegar and a
table-spoonful of various kinds of spice.
	Plum Cake.—One cup of sugar, one half cup
of butter, one of buttermilk, two of flour, one of
raisins; one egg, one teaspoonful soda. Cinnamon,
cloves and nutmeg to taste.
	Cup Cake.—One cup of butter, two cups of su-
gar, three cups of flour, four eggs, a little sour milk
and soda, or water soda and cream of tarter. This
is the best and most easily made of plain cakes.
	Tea Cake.—One cup of white sugar, half a cup
of butter, one cup of sweet milk, one egg, one-
half teaspoonful soda, one of cream of tartar, and
flour enough to make it like soft gingerbread.
Flavor with the juice of a small lemon. This
makes a good sized loaf.
	Farmer's Fruit Cake.—Cut two cups of sour
dried apples very fine, soak them over night in
cold water, add a cup of molasses, and stew until
thick; then add a cup of sugar, one of butter, one
of sour cream, two teaspoonfuls of soda, two eggs,
five cups of flour, and spice to taste.


Fritters.—Take young, sweet corn, pepper, salt,
nutmeg, and butter hot in the pan. Grate the
corn from the cobs into a basin, season and drop
by spoonfuls into a pan, and fry until brown.
This is a delicious breakfast relish, but requires
considerable time to prepare.
	Clothing Pins.—They should be boiled a few
moments and quickly dried once or twice a month,
when they become more flexible and durable.
Clothes lines will last longer and keep in better
order for wash-day service, if occasionally treated in
the same way.
	Cakes.—Superfine flour, sweet butter, fresh eggs,
and white sugar, are indispensable in making good
cake. The butter may sometimes be wholly or par-
tially omitted, and sweet lard or drippings, or cream
used in its stead. The flour must be sifted. An
earthen pan is best to mix it in, and a wooden
spoon or padle should be used for stirring. The
rule is to separate the yelks from the whites of the
eggs, beating up the former with the sugar, then
adding the butter, and only stirring in the whites,
well whisked, when all the other ingredients have
been added.


[For the EXPONENT
