R. S. REPORTS.

	Mrs. Ann Logan writes from Manti, San-
pete County, that the Society of sisters in
that place is a very good and energetic one,
willing and anxious to do all they can to help
in every righteous work. Money is very
scarse there, times quite favorable in other
respects.
	In a report from Mrs, S. Gibson, of the
Sugar House Ward, S. L. City, we find the
following intelligence:—Mrs. Ellen Tofield
Stringham, who has been a faithful teacher
in this Society, departed this life on the 22nd
of December, 1873. She was a native of
Buckinghamshire, England, born Novem-
ber 26th, 1821; emigrated to Utah in the
hand cart company, in 1856. Her near asso-
ciates and familiar acquaintances realize
that in her, they have lost, for a time, a true
friend, one who was always ready to give a
good word of counsel, or to assist those who
were in need of assistance.
	On Saturday, Jan. 3rd 1874, the General
Retrenchment Meeting, held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, was but sparsely at-
tended, owing to the very unfavorable state
of the weather. Those present, however,
enjoyed the spirit of unity, and much good
feeling was manifested. Counselor Mrs.
Elizabeth Howard, who, in the absence of
President Mrs, M. I. Horne, presided over
the meeting, said to the sisters that she
thought of late, there was too great lack of
punctuality among them. Their meetings
were appointed at 2 o’clock, not half past 2,
and they should each one make it a point to
be there at the appointed time.
	A report from Harrisville, informs us that
at a late meeting of the Society, several la-
dies from Salt Lake City and other places
were present as visitors, and that much good
was realized from their teachings. The
health of the President, Mrs. Melissa Shirt-
liff, we regret to learn is poor. The Society
generally, is alive to a sense of its many du-
ties. Secretary, Mrs. Mary E. Taylor.
	The 138th meeting of the Relief Society
of Bountiful, Davis Co., is reported by Mrs.
Jane C. Hale, the Assistant Secretary. Miss
Eliza R. Snow, Mrs. Zina D. Young and
others from Salt Lake City, were present,
and a very interesting meeting was held by
the Society, of which Mrs. E. H. Barlow is
President, and Mrs. Mary Carter Secretary.
	On the afternoon of Thursday,the 8th inst.,
an annual meeting of the 8th Ward Relief
Society, was held in the Ward meeting
house, Pres. Mrs. Mary A. Leaver presiding.
Bishop Sheets and his counselors favored
the sisters with their presence. Miss E. R.
Snow Mrs. Phebe Woodruff and Mrs. L.
Greene Richards were also present by es-
pecial invitation. The meeting was a pleas-
ant and profitable one, and after its close,the
company was served to a very suitable and
well prepared supper.


