DELIVERED BY MISS MATTIE J. HORNE.

	We the Daughters of Zion, also bid you
welcome. 
	We heartily coincide with our brothers
in those feelings of gratitude to our Heav-
enly Father and his Holy Priesthood, for
our glorious privileges, our surroundings,
and our prospects for the future. 
	We desire in no way to come short of our
brothers in the discharge of those duties
which are required of us. We wish to share
in their trials, tribulations and sacrifices, if
by so doing we can help to establish correct
principles, and secure to ourselves an exal-
tation in the kingdom of our God.
	Although young, we are well aware that
we are surrounded by many influences that
would tend to enslave us and lead us to for-
get our religion and our God: and while we
admit that some few are led to forget what
is due from the children of promise, and
suffer themselves to be led and controlled by
the spirit of the world, yet we have faith in
our sisters. We know the hearts of a large
majority are right before God: and that they
will live to realize and enjoy the many bless-
ings pronounced upon their heads.
	We look to our brothers for counsel, pro-
tection, and above all, for examples. And
would say to them as they have said to us,
"Let us work side by side in all the great
reforms of the last days."
	And further, let us put from us those evil
practices that have lately been introduced
into our midst: Let us not be found hang-
ing around drinking shops, breathing the
foul air of drunkards: Let us try to feel that
our presence is not needed, to grace any
billiard or other gambling saloon: Let us not
be guilty of promenading our beautiful
streets, behind ten cents worth of filthy to-
bacco: Let us remember that the divine gift
of language was not conferred that we might
speak disrespectfully of the Giver: Let it
not be said that we were seen wending our
way over Jordan, with a gun upon our
shoulder, or to some field of ice with our
skates under our arm, on the day which
God has said we should remember and keep
holy.
	But let us frown down EVERY THING, in-
troduced into our midst, that is interdicted
by our parents and leaders, that has a de-
basing tendency, and seek for, and practice
every thing that tends to exalt and ennoble
us in the scale of being.
	Brothers, lead out! we are with you, heart
and hand in every thing that will promote
the welfare of Zion.
	We love the principles of the Gospel; we
love our Mountain Home; we are thankful
to our Heavenly Father for our peace and
prosperity, and feel to exclaim with Sister
E.R. Snow in one of her beautiful poems:—
	We thank Thee for these mountain vales,
	Where life abounds, and peace prevails;
	The plenteous products of the land
	Declare the bounty of Thy hand.

	We'll sing hosannas unto Thee,
	Whose power and wisdom made us free,
	Till congregated worlds resound
	Thy praise to all creations round.


[Column 1]		LOCAL NOTES.

