		TIME AND LABOR.

	Hours, days and years are given to all people
much the same, but for many different purposes.
It would not do for all to engage in the same
pursuits; there must be a great variety of occu-
pations to satisfy all the different wants and
tastes of mankind; and in the wise providences
of creation, it is not designed that any should
be idlers. As all must live and all consume, all
must necessarily be provided for in some way;
and it is but mete that each one should share
in the vast amount of labor which must be per-
formed upon the earth, in order that its inhab-
itants may be fed, clothed and sheltered.
	And yet we often see strong, intellectual, fine
looking men loitering about street corners, or
lounging in stores and shops, as seemingly un-
concerned as if they had been placed upon the
earth for no particular purpose, with nothing
in the world to do. We find healthy, sprightly
appearing women, possessed of abundance of
intelligence and ability, promenading the side-
walks, or sitting at ease, with no apparent aim
in life—as though nothing could be required at
their hands but to laugh and fritter the golden
hours away. And such persons nearly always
contrive to be ostentatiously dressed, which
sometimes leads thinking people to try to un-
derstand how they manage; or how they would
get along when, in the events of fortune, they
may chance to be left to their own resources.
And next, to wonder what account they will
render to God for the precious time and gifts he

[Column 2]
so graciously lends them; and which they in
no worthy manner are bringing into use.
	To every one is given talents of some kind,
to be improved, and with which to accomplish
good to self and for others. We have said that
different vocations must necessarily be followed
by different people. And for this cause are va-
rying fancies, desires and abilities given to dif-
ferent individuals.
	But whatever their daily pursuits may be, it
is surely the right and duty of all to seek to im-
prove the mental faculties, to increase in intel-
ligence and develop thought, thus producing a
multiplicity of blessings in nameless ways.
	It cannot be justly required of any one, even
a servant to labor continuously, until all the
powers are exhausted, and there remains no
time or inclination to seek and grasp the
brightening influence and lasting benefits ac-
cruing from intelligent reflection, or from the
study of books and nature in all their varied
phases. We believe almost as little in constant
drudgery as in allowing time to pass away un-
improved. For although the latter course can
accomplish no good, there is often much harm
done by the pursuance of the former.
	Unremitting hard work, with little or no at-
tention to self culture, will soon bring husband
and wife to feel that they are mere partners in
some business transaction, instead of being
what they should be, and that which they have
covenanted to be to each other.
	The Spirit of God, the spirit of love and
union cannot stay in rich abundance, where all
is hurry-scurry, and work, work, work! with
no time devoted to quiet  thoughtful repose, or
to prayer and praise.
	It requires wisdom, we know, to be able to
discriminate properly between the portion of
time  which should be spent in work, and those
portions which should be given to study, recrea-
tion and rest. But it is a subject of which all
should endeavor to gain a proper understand-
ing. Were this done, and the knowledge, when
obtained, put into useful practice by the masses
of the people, great reforms would be brought
about in regard to time and labor.


