		   BABIES AT VIENNA.

	A correspondent writing of the childrens’
department at the Vienna Exposition, says,
“As to the Vienna pavilion, though most of
the contents are the veriest playthings, many
of them answering to no purpose in the best
of hands, yet it is not altogether uninterest-
ing. The most interesting half-sixed mo-
dels in plaster are stationed about the room.
Eight or ten of these illustrate the style in
which women of different nations carry their
babies. The Asiatic Indian woman carries
hers in a blanket hanging in front somewhat
below the waist; the Bengalese woman with
the child astride low down upon her left hip,
and her left arm supporting its back. The
figure seems quite indifferent as to the dif-
ficulties in this way of carrying,which must
be a highly artistic performance if done so
cleverly in reality. The Egyptian woman
carries hers in a stately manner, the child
sitting astride her shoulder with its hands
upon her head, and without any clothing to
speak of. The Brazilian woman carries hers
in a somewhat similiar manner, also in full
undress, it sitting astride her neck. The
Chinese baby is carried upright upon the
back, in a blanket, and the South African in
a bag in front, formed by a blanket about
the hips of the mother. The Lower Aus-
trian woman carries hers by swinging it in
a blanket over one shoulder upon her back,
while the Northern Austrian carries hers
bound upon a board, after the style of can-
dy models in confectionery stores. The Lap-
land baby is carried in a sledge-shaped cot
made of leather. It seems to have been
chucked in, feet foremost, and then a frame
tied over the opening for its face, whether
to prevent it from crawling out or to keep
the dogs from kissing it, is more than can
be imagined. The Esquimaux woman,who
wears wide, high-top boots, and puts the
baby right end foremost, down in the out-
side of one of them, and doubtless, accord-
ing to Dr. Kane's description of her style,
carrying her cooking and heating utensils
in the other. The North American woman
carries her papoose strapped to a board, and
that strapped upon her back by a band over
the forehead.


﻿QUEEN VICTORIA, an English Jenkins
says, has a cask of fresh sea water sent dai-
ly to London, for her morning bath, during
her residence in that city.


TEN YOUNG women made the Harlem Riv-
er at New York lively on Saturday, by a
swimming match. The prize was a silk
dress, valued at $175, and the distance a
mile. Miss Delilah Goboess of Philadelphia,
proved the winner, swimming the mile in
40 minutes. Miss Maggie Colton of Boston,
came in second. Miss Mollie Denan of Ire-
land led for some distance, but nobly resign-
ed her chance of winning,to rescue a young
man who had fallen into the water. The
spectators raised a purse to buy Miss Denan
a gold watch, as a reward for her bravery.


