	RETRENCHMENT ASSOCIATION.

			Meadowville, Dec. 7th, 1873.
My Dear Sisters:
	I rejoice to learn that you are again organ-
ized into a Retrenchment Association, and
sincerely hope you will duly appreciate the
many advantages and privileges deriving
therefrom. I can assure you the privilege,
of meeting with you every Thursday eve-
ning would be esteemed by me as a great
and invaluable blessing, but I can only com-
mune with you through the medium of my
pen, which I take pleasure in doing. If it
will have the desired effect of cheering and
encouraging you, my sisters, (for such I love
to call you,) I am indeed pleased to write.
	I pray God to assist you in your humble
endeavors to aid in establishing a reform
among the ladies of Utah. That there is
much need of a reform, ’tis needless to
state, as it is plain to all, either careful or
careless observers, that the present state of
extravagance in dress and daily habits,must
lead to fearful results. It so completely un-
fits woman for the useful sphere before her,
besides having an awful bearing on the fu-
ture generation. Where are the stalwart,
bright, intellectual men and women, which
our Country will so much need, to come
from? Surely the present state of affairs
will not tend to produce such. Woman has
got to step forward, free herself from the
hateful bonds of enslaving fashion, let her
true womanhood take its natural course, and
prepare herself for that important mission
for which she was created; viz., her glo-
rious part in peopling the world with noble-
minded men and women.
	Let us, dear girls, take pains to dress
neatly and tastefully, with an eye to com-
fort and a strict observance of cleanliness
and health, ever allowing our circumstances
to govern our purchases. It is in bad taste
to dress beyond our means; or endeavor to
make a display at the expense of father’s
hard earnings, or mother’s little household
comforts. Or if we have means earned by
our own industry, how foolish to invest it
all in fine dress, instead of something which
would be a constant source of pleasure
and benefit, such ns a useful book, or nice
and useful article of furniture with which
to adorn our homes and make life happy.
Then we should be unselfish and seek the
good of others.
	Let us be dignified, gentle,polite and wo-
manly in our daily conduct, ever maintain-
ing self-respect and independence as daugh-
ters of our Father who sent us here, to pre-
pare ourselves and assist others in preparing
for that grand future which we believe
awaits all who strive to win it.
	Let us carefully study and investigate the
glorious Gospel of Christ, and the wonder-
ful manner in which it was restored to the
earth; after which there will be no possibil-
ity of a doubt of the truth of it lingering,
in our minds. This is of the most vital
importance to us lest we in our thoughtless-
ness should be led astray. It would be far
better for us should our heads be severed
from our shoulders than that we should take
a course to sever ourselves from the Church
of our Lord and Savior. Let us devote more
time to reflection upon these important items,
and cease to be so childishly thoughtless.
	In conclusion I would say, seek and pray
for wisdom and use it. Be humble and ex-
emplary, court the approbation and society
of good and intelligent men and women.
Ever believe my heart is with you, and my
prayers are for you. 	LONA ELDREDGE.


