HOME AFFAIRS.

	A WRITER from Bountiful, Davis Co., who
subscribes herself "Your true friend, though a
'Gentile,'" fails to give us her name private-
ly—as custom and the rights of the press de-
mand; which we regret, as her communication
is well worth publishing.
	MISS SARAH E. Russel, who is spending the
winter with friends in Richmond, Ray Co.,
Missouri, writes us, privately, from that place.
Many sincere friends in this city, will be
gratified to learn that this very estimable young
lady is in good health, and enjoying a pleasant
visit among old associates.
	THE NEW Year's picnic in the 14th Ward of
this city, was a very pleasing affair. About
two hundred and fifty juveniles belonging to the
Ward, were first seated at tables, and partook
of a repast, in every way suitable to the occa-
sion—the adults having by unanimous voice,
given the little folks the precedence for the day.
After the children, their parents, Sabbath
School Teachers and friends were feasted. The
company in all, amounted to something over
four hundred. Especial care was taken by the
committee of arrangements, that the poor of
the Ward should be liberally provided for.
Notwithstanding the large number of children
present, the best of order was preserved during
the entire proceedings of the day and evening;
which consisted of music and singing, addresses,
social conversation, feasting and dancing. The
committee was deserving of much credit, for
their praiseworthy efforts, which were re-
warded with success. Mr Heber Cummings
and Miss Mattie Horne also merit especial no-
tice for the excellent manner in which they re-
cited the Young Gentleman's and Young La-
dies' addresses, written for the occasion by the
Superintendent of the Ward Sabbath School,
Bro. George H. Taylor, and given in another
column of the present issue of the EXPONENT.
	ON THE second Monday in February, the Mu-
niciple officers for this city will be elected.
	THE RELIEF Society of the 14th Ward will
give a Select party on Friday evening, the 23rd


inst., in the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms. Mrs.
M. I. Horne, Mrs. W. East, Mrs. S. B. Wilkin-
son, Mrs. J. C. Richardson, Mrs. E. S. Taylor
and Mrs. E. J. Stevenson constitute the Com-
mittee of Arrangements, and no doubt the en-
tertainment will be one of the best and most
enjoyable of the season. We wish the ladies
perfect success, and return thanks for their kind
invitation extended to us.
	WE ARE pleased to offer grateful acknowl-
edgements, not only in our own name, but also
in behalf of our sisters who were specified in a
motion of Mr. L. E. Harrington, member of
the Legislative Council, by which the freedom
of the Council Chamber has been extended to
leading representative ladies of this city. We
consider this act of the Council very courteous,
and deserving sincere thanks.


[For the EXPONENT
