She Unanswerable Lael W. Hill One child is dark, with midnight eyes; One, golden as an August day. Shy is the dark one, wild and wise; The gold one, placid in her play, Flashes a smile that's honey-spun. Her solemn sister haunts you so! Which is the prettier, dearer one Of two little girls? You want to know Then go—ask wind if dusk or dawn Stirs more delight; ask the wide sea What shore is best to break upon. Question which clover suits the bee— But never, never ask a mother Which daughter is lovelier than the other! AMELIA ELIZABETH H. JACKSON Amelia Elizabeth Hl. Jackson (Pieces Quilts and Mlakes Lampshades MELIA Elizabeth H. Jackson, Ogden, Utah, ls ninety-two years old, but she has not yet retired, but has changed her hobbies to fit her present strength and circumstances. In the past yeat she has pieced twelve quilt tops by hand, crocheted six chair sets, and fifteen caps for babies. Also she has decorated a number of attractive lampshades. She still makes fine, even stitches and takes pride in her accomplishments. Amelia Elizabeth was born to Orin and Elizabeth Perry Hatch in Bountiful, Utah, in 1862, only fifteen years after the pioneers came to Utah. From a traveling tailor, che learned to be an expert seamstress and while in her teens she made overalls for the 7, C, M. 1. In summers she lived on a ranch neat Wanship, Utah, and milked ten cows or more, nights and mornings. At the age of twenty-one she was married and traveled with her young husband David Jackson to Rich County, Utah, where they were the first to introduce Hereford cattle and establish a dairy. For many years, Amelia Jackson was secretary of the Woodruff Stake Relief Society. She traveled long distances to make her visits, including the 185 miles to Manila. She is the mother of thirteen children, thirty-six grandchildren, and seventy-eight great-grandchildren. Her life philosophy ls to keep abreast of the times, think of others and serve them, trust in the Lord, be honest and fair in all dealings, and live the very best you can. Page 109