[Vol56 | June 1969 | Page 438 | Special Feature | South Africa— Land of Gold and Green Caroline | Eyring Miner]
A ee aN ee - e ON Te a ee ae eter raise StH Voortrekkers Monument in Pretoria, Administrative Capital of Republic of South Africa African Tulip Tree in Bloom Cape of Good Hope MATA uate Tropical Scene on Vaah.. The East Coast of \ Africa Groundbills in Kruger National Park Giraffe in Kruger National Park The Relief Society Magazine Lights the Way a "The Relief Society Magazine Lights the Way" was the theme for the Magazine department and Magazine display at the Annual General Relief Society conference, October 1968. A colorful mural depicting the theme showed sisters of the Church around the world joining hands in a common fellowship of understanding and purpose through the light of The Relief Society Magazine. The mural, painted by Irene Emigh, served as a background in the department, and was an interesting part of the display. "The Magazine Lights the Way for Relief Society Workers''—East Cache Stake—Mildred H. Himes, stake Relief Society president, Rachel M. Plaser, stake Magazine representative. Each pedestal represented a different program of Relief Society—all guided by light from The Relief Society Magazine. Four of these programs are pictured in addition to the entire display: Visiting Teaching, Nursery, Compassionate Service, and Singing Mothers. Five stakes and The Relief Society Magazine Editorial and Mailing Departments prepared table displays. Fourteen steps in the makeup of the Magazine "from manuscript to press" were shown in a display titled "High Lights of the Magazine." A background map indicated that more than 278,000 copies of the Magazine were mailed each month all over the world except to those countries behind the Iron Curtain. These "High Lights" helped the sisters viewing the display to understand and appreciate the careful planning, time, and attention to detail required by the dedicated individuals who prepare and mail the Magazine each month.

(Continued on page 451) 439 The Nursery Compassionate es Service *. Visiting Teachers "The Magazine Lights the Way for the Spanish-Speaking Sisters." Mexico City Stake—Leona F. Wagner, stake Relief Society president, Ruth France, stake Magazine representative. Mural and artifacts of the South American people past and present, portraying the times of spiritual darkness and the blessings of the light of the gospel. On the right side can be seen Spanish sisters receiving The Relief Society Magazine in the Spanish language. —————> Singing Mothers 'The Magazine Lights the Way at Holiday Time."' Palo Alto Stake— Alice M. Jorgensen, stake Relief Society president, Elaine Tuttle, stake Magazine representative. Holiday ideas from the. Magazine arranged in lighted shadow boxes carried out the theme. 4 *; = € = a 2 Ea 4 The Art of Bread Clay Myrene T.

451 June 1969

 CANDIES OF EXCELLENCE (continued from page 445) A candy thermometer, for those who prefer a thermometer for testing. Remember that recipes give sea-level temperatures. To adjust these temperatures to your own altitude, put a thermometer in a pan of water, and bring to a boil. Record the temperature. Sea-level boiling temperature is 212° F. So, subtract your boiling temperature from the sea-level boiling temperature. The difference might be two, ten, twelve, or more degrees. Then subtract that number of degrees from the recipe temperature. If, as in Salt Lake City, for example, the difference is twelve degrees; the sea-level temperature for the soft ball stage is 236°; therefore the candy will be done at 224°. At sea level caramels are done at 246°. In Salt Lake City, where the difference is 12°, they are done at 234°. CREAM CENTERS FOR CHOCOLATES 1 pint fresh whipping cream 4 c. White granulated sugar 1 tsp. Pure vanilla Add cream to sugar in a kettle and stir well. Then, with a cloth wrung from hot water, wipe off the inside of the kettle down to the candy line. Remove spoon and boil over medium heat or less. Important: Mixture must not be stirred during the heating and cooking process, but wipe the inside of the kettle with a cloth three times, down to the candy line, holding the kettle still. Let cook to very soft ball stage 20-30 minutes); test by dropping a bit into a cup of ice cold water. When this can be gathered into a small ball and rolled between thumb and finger under cold water, without adhering to fingers, it is done. Slowly pour a thin stream of candy, outlining the edges of the cold slab, to prevent candy from running off the slab. Then pour the candy slowly from the center to the edge. If it runs off in your first efforts, do not touch tt; let all candy stand untouched until completely cool. Push it into the center of the slab with a long knife. Then use a long wooden spoon, clean and dry, to beat the candy. 452 Never scrape the kettle at all! Scraping causes granulation. If the candy grains, add \, cup cream, stir well; reboil. Add a teaspoon of pure vanilla; it must be the pure vanilla as this is one secret of the flavor. Beat and beat, under the partly opened window, until the candy is creamy and firm; then knead as you would bread, for a minute or two. Divide the candy into three parts. (Yield: 60-70 chocolates) VARIETIES OF CREAM CENTERS Plain Centers Mold the first part into round balls, the size of chocolate centers, by rolling between the palms at an open window, for the plain creams. Place these on wax paper on plates under open window or in refrigerator. Let stand two hours to form a slight crust before dipping in chocolate. After an hour these balls may be shaped into greater symmetry by very quickly rolling between the palms again. Then let stand. Coconut Centers To the second part, add two thirds of a 3¥,-ounce can of choice coconut flakes. Mix and prepare as in part one. Nut Centers To the third part, add as many broken pecans as desired. Prepare centers as previously directed. If covered these centers can stand in the refrigerator a day or so before dipping. CHOCOLATE DIP 5 squares bitter chocolate 4 squares semi-sweet chocolate Use only a few squares at a time, as the leftover mixture should not be re-heated another day for dipping, but used for other things. Melt in a bowl over hot, not quite boiling, water. Lift off burner, and allow to cool for about 2 minutes. Centers must be cold when dipped, and room must be cool. It is said to take two years to make a good chocolate dipper so don't be discouraged if you don't achieve a professional look at first. Use a fork and quickly dip the ie 2 SED chocolate, or roll in chocolate in the palm of the hand. Then set it on waxed paper. When chocolates are hard, trim off the uneven edges at the base of each. Store in fluted chocolate cups in covered tin containers in the refrigerator. MINT FUDGE CENTERS 1 pint fresh whipping cream 4 c. White granulated sugar 1 square bitter chocolate, shaved and mixed in before putting on the burner (homogenizes during beating) 1%, scant tsp. Mint flavor added after candy has cooled on the slab, also 1 tsp. Vanilla. Proceed as for cream centers above, only flatten the balls before cooling. Then dip if desired. All cream centers are attractive plain, with a half pecan pressed into the top. RAW SUGAR CREAMS 1 pint fresh whipping cream 1 quart raw sugar 1 tsp. Pure vanilla, added after candy is cold Follow directions for cream centers. These are particularly nice undipped with an almond half on top. PANOCHA CREAMS 1/%, c. Brown sugar, firmly packed 2', c. White sugar 1 pint whipping cream 1 tsp. Pure vanilla, added when cool Make as other creams. PECAN ROLLS Plain cream center, prepared as directed /, lb. Fresh butter 1 c. Evaporated milk 1 c. Half-and-half cream 2 c. White sugar 2 c. White syrup Stir sugar and syrup together and bring to a rolling boil; cook over quite high heat stirring