[Vol56 | June 1969 | Page 459 | General Feature | Notes to the Field— Relief Society | Song Contest]
girls fussing over him, keeping the house clean, bottling his fruit and bringing him treats from their own tables. How could it be looked on without sentiment? As long as he had this place he had her, her crochet work and her dishes, her braided. Rugs and the quilts she. Had made. "She would have wanted it this way," he had told them. He always spoke of Mother Freeman only as "she." "She planted that cherry tree; she grew those roses from the corsages the boys brought Emily and Francine." He honored her as Jacob honored Rachel; the spring was a Jacob's well at which he wept for his lost companion as Jacob wept for Rachel. And Rachel-was_ her name. A warm woman, full of compassion, outgoing in her love: This home was her shrine. There was more than sentimentality involved here now. There was obligation, deep obligation. This home had been a mother island from which their little boats cast off to ride the storm of their independence, returning on every tide—not only Mary Ann's and Kim's, but his sisters, too—until they were strong enough to cope with the seas of their new responsibilities, always bolstered, of course, with help from home, their cars loaded with vegetables and fruit, the nudge of a little check when vacation money ran out, or a new home called for a down payment. "Dory Works would pay ten thousand cash for this place right today," Francine had said. "Dory Works," Dad said impotently, in despair, "Dory Works would strip this place of every item of beauty in short order, and have the front yard filled 

457 June 1969

 with broken down cars." "I'll tell you, Dad," said Kim, turning his back on his sisters and kneeling beside his father's wheel chair, "This place won't be sold. Never, not while you live, and not while I live. Come home with Mary Ann and me. Just for now." A surge of pride in Kim had swept Mary Ann. Instantly she was on the other side of the wheel chair, her arms around Kim's father. "Yes, Dad. Come home with us—just for now!" "You have your work, too," objected Francine in the background. "Til quit my job," said Mary Ann recklessly. "How can you, with Rosemary getting married—Tommy graduating? You said." "We'll work it out," said Kim. "But I can't let you." Father Freeman had begun. "I don't like my job anyway," said Mary Ann, trying to make it easy for Father Freeman. "You don't know how I've longed to stay at home, be a decent homemaker for a change." Kim's hand had found hers, and he pressed it, the objections of his sisters rumbling away in the far distance like subsiding thunder. "The crops are in, Dad. There's nothing much to do here In winter, and by spring." "By spring I can come home!" his father had said gratefully. Kim had not promised, Mary Ann remembered, and neither had she. How could they? They had told each other in the night hours that maybe they could wean him away from his home, make him really enjoy 458 California living, but both knew this hope for what it was, a palliative to their own conscience. Now the full force of their emotional commitment and spoken promise hit them, as Kim jostled for position to exit from the freeway onto their own boulevard. "Where are we?" asked Father Freeman, rousing from the back of the station wagon. "My, what a long sleep I had!" "Almost home, Dad," said Kim cheerfully. The tranquilizers and the pain pills had served his father well. Mary Ann braced herself to meet Tommy and Rosemary as they turned into their own driveway. Tommy, grinning his welcome, leaped to help with his Grandfather and the wheelchair. "Gramps! Why didn't you make these characters fly you down?" His flip words covered an instant concern, and Mary Ann loved him for it. "Grandfather! Who knew you were coming!" asked Rosemary, after the slightest of hesitations. If she was shocked she covered it admirably. "What a surprise! Now I know why I got such a special dinner ready. Dad, why didn't you call me from San Bernardino and I would have put another spoonful of grease in the gravy,' she went on, reviving an old family cliché when unexpected company was on the doorstep. Maybe only her mother saw the unanswered questions chasing back of her eyes, noticed the little frown which fleetingly creased her brows and sensed the gathering storm. (To be continued) FROM THE FIELD All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. All submissions must be received within two months of the event described. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1966, page 50. Color pictures are not used in this department. Relief Society Activities MBH. 4 '5 wm! CHICAGO STAKE (ILLINOIS), NORTH SHORE WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS WIFE OF NEWLY APPOINTED SECRETARY OF THE a January 14, 1969 Front row, left to right: Lenora Kennedy, visiting teacher message leader, North Shore Ward Relief Society, and wife of David Kennedy, Secretary of the Treasury, United States Government; Donna Smith, President North Shore Ward Relief Society. Back row, left to right: Carol Whittle and Barbra Law (social relations class leader), Kennedy daughters; Nedra Hardy, Second Counselor. Jasmine R. Edmunds, President, Chicago Stake Relief Society, reports: ''Sisters of the North Shore Ward Relief Society of our stake honored Sister Lenora Kennedy prior to her leaving for Washington D. C. Where her husband would assume the duties of Secretary of the Treasury in the United States Government. "Sister Kennedy had served as visiting teacher message leader and was an active member of Relief Society. At the program and luncheon in her honor, she was presented with a book entitled, Evidences of Washington, which was signed by all of the Relief Society sisters."'

[Notes to the Field— Relief Society Song Contest]

Relief Society, reports: ''A lovely display created by Olive Western, stake Magazine representative; Jean Palmer, Clark Ward Magazine representative; and Mable Wootton, Grantsville First Ward Magazine representative, was interesting, artistic, and informative at the open house held in our stake. "The theme of the display was 'The Relief Society Magazine Lights the Way.' Only part of the display is pictured. Food was displayed made from recipes in the December 1968 issue of The Relief Society Magazine." -=<sssss BRAZILIAN SOUTH MISSION VISITED BY MEMBERS OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY AND PRIMARY GENERAL BOARDS November 21, 1968 Left to right: Nedra Strong, member, Primary General Board; Dulce Heuser, First Counselor, Mission Relief Society Board; Sherma A. Jensen, Supervisor, Brazilian South Mission Relief Society; Belle S. Spafford, President, General Board of Relief Society; Leanor J. Brown, member, General Board of Relief Society; Jany Deljaux, President, Mission Relief Society Board; Clarinda Bortoletto, Secretary-Treasurer; Maria Kunz, visiting teacher message leader; Aracy Duarte, Second Counselor. Sister Jensen reports: ''It was a blessing to the Relief Society sisters to have President Spafford and Sister Leanor J. Brown of the General Board of Relief Society visit Our mission headquarters in Pérto Alegre, Rio Grande Do Sul, Brazil. "Although their visit was limited to mission headquarters, their influence has been felt throughout the forty branches and ten member districts of the mission. The mission board members are devoted to Relief Society and work with much love and harmony."' C0 TAYLORSVILLE WEST STAKE (UTAH), TAYLORSVILLE SIXTH WARD PRESENTS BAZAAR, December 6, 1969 Left to right: Virginia White, Second Counselor, Taylorsville Sixth Ward Relief Society; Geraldine Sorenson, First Counselor; Louise North, President. Maryilyn Coats, President, Taylorsville West Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Taylorsville Sixth Ward of our stake presented a gala bazaar which was enjoyed by many. The evening began with a delicious dinner. The theme of the evening was 'Christmas Gifts and Goodies,' which was carried throughout the displays, the bazaar items, and the table decorations. "The sisters were earnest and enthusiastic in the year's preparation and planning that, went into this lovely affair." 460 SSS a a June 1969 PORTLAND STAKE (OREGON), PORTLAND TWELFTH WARD PRESENTS A CHRISTMAS LUNCHEON, December 11, 1968 Left to right: Norma Marshall, Secretary-Treasurer, Portland Twelfth Ward Relief Society; Clarine Birch, President; Jean Vernon, homemaking leader; Diana Swanson, Homemaking Counselor; Bonieta Deppe, Education Counselor; Sonoma Y. Toolson, cultural refinement class leader. Helen T. Randall, President, Portland Stake Relief Society, reports: ''The Portland Twelfth Ward of our stake held a very successful luncheon during the Christmas season. The large attendance was made up of young mothers, elderly sisters, and many 'shut-ins.' "The luncheon was prepared from traditional recipes, and was not only delicious, but attractively presented. The lovely pink table decorations were done by Sister Sonoma Y. Toolson."' EIGHT BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY STAKES FORM RELIEF SOCIETY ''SINGING SISTERS" CHORUS TO SING AT FIRESIDE, March 2, 1969 Edwin J. Butterworth, director of public relations, Brigham Young University, reports: 'Sisters from each of the eight stakes on campus combined to form a 'Singing Sisters' chorus to sing at a combined stakes fireside, in honor of the 127th birthday of Relie Society, March 17. Conductor for the group was Judy Barton, and the organist was Beth Walker. The 300 sisters dressed in dark skirts and white blouses for the occasion. They sang 'Lift Thine Eyes to the Mountains' and 'Now the Day Is Over.''' a a a a ae a ee a age: aD a a REXBURG STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS ''CHRISTMAS FAIR,'' December 7, 1968 Officers of the Rexburg Stake Relief Society Board, front row, left to right: Raya Lewis, homemaking leader; Leona Flamm, Magazine representative; LaMarr Davidson, Homemaking Counselor; Cleo Johnson, President; Fern Smith, Education Counselor; Lela McCulloch, Secretary-Treasurer. Second row, left to right: Lucille Ricks, spiritual living class leader; Rama Griffeth, social relations class leader; Geraldine Jacobs, cultural refinement class leader; Nina Wilkins, chorister; Carol Barrus, organist; Trieste Robison, visiting teacher message leader. Sister Johnson reports: ''We held a Christmas Fair in conjunction with our monthly leadership meeting. The leadership meeting was held in the morning, and in the afternoon and evening, the fair was open to the public—a lovely way to acquaint the people of the stake with Relief Society activities. ''Each ward decorated a Christmas tree, prepared a holiday table setting, and featured a display of arts and crafts. In one end of the cultural hall was a nativity scene. In another corner a large replica of The Relief Society Magazine tied with bows served as a gift idea. "We felt that this was a most successful event, and acquainted many people with the Relief Society program."' 462 SST SERN n> SS gD "@, XX « > 28 hm b ~~ Ff te % ' ~e. Eo, Py +. B. BS $f g ° i by ' * ' J 1 ); = *; " I ——, ¥ PHOENIX WEST STAKE (ARIZONA) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD VISITS DESERET INDUSTRIES AND PRESENTS A FASHION SHOW, January 24, 1969 Officers of the Phoenix West Stake Relief Society, left to right: Helen R. Macdonald, chorister; Marjorie Y. Bills, spiritual living class leader; Havana S. May, visiting teacher message leader; Ruth K. Winsor, cultural refinement class leader; Ida C. King, Secretary-Treasurer; Alice M. Foutz, Homemaking Counselor; Irma R. Harris, homemaking leader: Barbara B. Brown, social relations class leader; Millicent K. Winsor, President; Rae D. Levie, Magazine representative; Julia W. Riggs, Education Counselor. Sister Winsor reports: ''Members of the stake Relief Society board recently visited the Deseret Industries in our area, and each member purchased an article of clothing. After a few alterations, the clothing was ready to be modeled at a fashion show presented at leadership meeting. "Each sister modeled her dress and told how much it cost. The total cost of the dresses modeled in the picture was $8.96. A special song, written by Millicent K. Winsor, dedicated to Deseret Industries, was sung by the board members. "This same program was presented at the next stake welfare meeting where it was received with much enthusiasm. Ward officers were encouraged to return to their wards and hold similar fashion shows at homemaking meetings to stimulate sales at the Deseret Industries."