[Vol56 | June 1969 | Page 412 | Special Feature | The Standard Works of the Church Marion | G. Romney]
And all things that he spake have The Standard Works of the Church been and shall be, even according to the words which he spake. Therefore give heed to my words; write the things which [ have told you; and according to the time and the will of the Father they shall go forth unto the Gentiles. And whosoever will hearken unto my words and repenteth and is_ baptized, the same shall be saved. Search the prophets, for many there be that testify of these things. (3 Nephi 23:1-5.) No one of our standard works is of more importance to us than the Doctrine and Covenants. The revelations there recorded were specifically given for our guldance. The degree to which we conform to the law of heaven prescribed therein, will determine our place in the heavenly kingdom. Under these circumstances, it would seem that Relief Society sisters, and every other believing Church member, would desire to follow the Lord's directions to: Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. (D&C 1:37.) Treasure these things up in your hearts, and let the solemnities of eternity rest upon your minds. (D&C 43:34.) In numberless hues, IDENTITY Who am I? Only my Heavenly Father knows, For he created my spirit, and knew my intelligence. What am I? Again, he alone knows, now; But he desires that I learn To comprehend myself. This requires eternity. I could become a unique source Of infinite responses to truth. Why am I? A prism needed Through which truth may shine That beauty and joy may be embodied. —Margaret B.

standard works of the Church because it is a little more diffcult to maintain interest in sustained reading unless one has a definite objective in his reading, such as theological. There is relatively no narrative in the Doctrine and Covenants. The exception to this is Section 135, the historical account of the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hyrum at Carthage Jail 125 years ago. I presume that it would not be amiss to suggest an exaggerated comparison of the Doctrine and Covenants and reading the dictionary—in both, there is statement after statement of truths not always connected with the preceding information. This fact, however, has its advantages. One does not have to look very far to find rich, inspiring thoughts. Also, one must concentrate on his reading in order not to miss salient principles. Years ago I realized that many members of the Church might find difficulty in keeping up their interest in reading the Doctrine and Covenants, so I conceived the idea that this book could be enjoyed more and learned better, perhaps, through the commentaries of the prophets, seers, and revelators of the dispensation. With this and other purposes in mind, I set out to compile such a work, using the sermons and writings of the members of the First Presidencies, Twelve Apostles, and the Patriarchs to the Church to explain 485 July 1969 the Doctrine and Covenants. For well over five years I labored on this project which culminated in the four volumes of The Latter-Day Prophets and the Doctrine and Covenants, published from 1963 to 1965. I have known young as well as old people who have shown unusual interest in the Doctrine and Covenants through the use of these volumes. Writings of Elder B. H. Roberts In the years when I was learning the teachings of the Church, I was impressed with the writings of Elder B. H. Roberts of the First Council of Seventy. I remember his quoting a passage from George Rawlinson's Historical Evidences of the Truth of the Scripture Records, as follows:. Of this we may be sure, that if any new forms of evidence should hereafter be needed, to meet any new forms of unbelief, and authenticate afresh the word of truth, they will be found deposited somewhere, waiting for the fulness of time; and God will bring them forth in their season, from the dark hieroglyphics, or the desert sands, or the dusty manuscripts, to confound the adversaries of his word, and to magnify it above all his name. (Quoted in New Witness for God, Volume II, Forewords.) Under the caption of "The World's Hunger For Knowledge of The Christ," President Roberts quoted the following from the Life of the Master by Rev. John Watson: Were a_ parchment discovered in an Egyptian mound, six inches square, containing fifty words which were certainly spoken by Jesus, this utterance would count more than all the books which have been published since the first century. (Ibid.) 486 Although Elder Roberts used these quotations to support the Book of Mormon, I came early in life to know that we do have the words of Christ in the Doctrine and Covenants, in fact, hundreds and hundreds of them spoken to his Prophet, Joseph Smith. The introduction to the revelations in this book of scripture reveals the author as the Savior. Examples are: Hearken, O ye people of my church— 1:1. _— to the voice of Jesus Christ, your Lord, your God, and your Redeemer (27:1.) Behold, thus saith the Lord, even Alpha and Omega... (54:1.) A Witness for the Savior The Lord declared, however, that the revelations were given after the manner of the Prophet's language. (D&C 1:24.) The Doctrine and Covenants stands as a witness for Jesus that he is the Savior of those who want to be saved. The doctrine that salvation comes only to those who accept him and thus he saves only them, is taught plainly. (D&C 42:1; 29:17.) In truth, the Doctrine and Covenants is an answer to the present thought among some theologians that God is dead, a notion that has received wide publicity. The modern scriptures declare plainly that God lives! Two important accounts of the appearance of the Savior in this generation are given in the Doctrine and Covenants: (1) the stirring description by the Prophet Joseph Smith and Sidney Rigdon is a testimony to this fact. And now after the many testimonies which have been given of him, this is the testimony, last of all, which we How I Became Involved in the Doctrine and Covenants give of him: That he lives! For we saw him, even on the right hand of God; and we heard the voice bearing record that he is the Only Begotten of the Father— That by him, and through him, and of him, the worlds are and were created, and the inhabitants thereof are begotten sons and daughters unto God. (D&C 76:22-24.) And (2) we know of the glorified account of the Savior's appearance to Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery in the Kirtland Temple on April 3, 1836. The veil was taken from our minds, and the eyes of our understanding were opened. We saw the Lord standing upon the breastwork of the pulpit, before us; and unde