[Vol12 | January 1925 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: The Year Has Gone Eliza R. Snow]

the year 1812. These purple glass windows are also a distinguishing mark of old Beacon Hill Mansions. _ The purchasing and fitting up of this Club House with its commodious lounges, dining rooms, reading rooms, halls, baths and bedrooms are among the achievements of the modern woman.

The Boston women wanted a home where they could eat, sleep, dine, bathe, entertain their guests at will, and meet when they chose; and in this beautiful home, to employ: the words of a great writer, "That which they so greatly desire is greatly realized," for they have a membership of 5,000 women, representing 175 towns and cities, extending from Nova Scotia to Michigan.

The lounge, which is described by the club member as a EDITORIAL 23 modernized edition of the formal parlor, has in it a magnificent old mantelpiece, with an elegant mirror, and an equally elegant chandelier.

Beautiful pieces of furniture may be seen on every side, for many loans and gifts have been made to the house by persons who had in their possession rare pieces of furniture.

For instance, in the lounge is found a most exquisite inlaid writing desk that belonged to Governor Winthrop; on it was a vase of cut flowers.

Everywhere cut flowers were in evidence, and everywhere the receptacles holding the cut flowers were most attractive, The curve of the main stairway is said to be a study in exact proportions.

In the hall where the staircase is found, is a beautiful mirror, in a great frame, that, like grandfathers clock, stands an the floor and reaches far up the sides of the wall.

SESE STO EOR STR a ENTRANCE TO WOMEN'S CITY CLUB, BOSTON 
 Having told you something of our abiding place, I want to tell you how we spent our time outside the Club House.

The first afternoon, in company with Dr. A. E. Winship we drove in Miss O'Connor's car, through an especially beautiful part of Boston finally passing the New England Conservatory of Music.

It was remarked in the course of the drive, that a goodly number of Utah students had trained in the Conservatory, at one time or another.

Miss O'Connor appeared to be greatly astonished that Utah music students should seek the New England Conservatory which, to be sure, was a distinct compliment to Utah music and Utah musicians, for Miss O'Connor 'nad heard both.

From Boston we drove to Bedford, where for a time we followed the Paul Revere road, thence to Summerville, and on, finally coming to the Charles River and Cambridge, where we passed the homes of Longfellow and Lowell, and Mt.

Auburn Cemetery where they are buried.

At 4 o'clock we were driven to the campus of Harvard University.

There we were taken into one of the choicest places in the Harvard Library, where we saw the Harry Elkins Weidner collection.

Everything was harmonious; the building, the lovely Sargent paintings on each side of the door where we entered, and the rare and beautifully bound and beautifully decorated books upon the shelves.

This special collection is in charge if Mr. George Parker Winship, son of Dr. A. E. Winship.

Through the courtesy of Dr, and Mrs. Winship and Mr. George Parker Winship, our party, consisting of three Massachussetts teachers, Miss Elliott and myself were served refreshments in this very choice library room.

The second day we were driven by Miss O'Connor through a series of neat little New England villages of white frame houses and green shutters, surrounded by lovely hardwood trees and lawns that needed no hosepipe' to keep them from withering.

In the midst of all this green, the pink hydrangea put forth its lovely bunches of blossoms, in preat profusion.

We were on our way to Plymouth, the historic spot where the pilgrims landed in 1620. As we passed along we saw people gathering cranberries that you perhaps ate at your Thanksgiving or Christmas dinners.

Arriving at Plymouth we visited Plymouth Rock, fully protected since 1920, when the Pilgrim Tercentenary was held in America.

As we walked through the streets of Plymouth we marked the sites where many of the early Pilgrim Fathers built their homes; also the cemetery where many found a last resting place, and where corn was planted that the Indians might not be able to count the dead.

In Plymouth is found a most interesting hall of relics, known as Pilgrim Hall.

In this hall may be seen Governor EDITORIAL (43) Bradford's Bible, the