[Vol8 | August 1921 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Frontispiece | Title: Mme. Curie in her Laboratory in Paris Frontispiece]

Mme. Curie in Center of Group 
 you as foremost among scientists in the age of science, as leader among women in the generation which sees woman come tardily into her own. We greet you as an examplar of liberty's victories in the generation wherein liberty has won her crown of glory. In doing honor to you we testify anew our pride in the ancient friendships which have bound us to both the country of your adoption, and that of your nativity. It has been your fortune, 'Madame Curie, to accomplish an immortal work for humanity. We bring to you the meed of honor which is due to pre-eminence in science, scholarship, research and humanitarianism, But with it all we bring something more. We lay at your feet the testimony of that"4ove which all the generations of men have been wont to bestow upon the noble woman, the unselfish wife, the devoted mother. If, indeed, these simpler and commoner relations of life could not keep you from great attainments in the realms of science and intellect, it is also true that the zeal, ambition and unswerving purpose of a lofty career. Could not bar you from splendidly doing all the plain but worthy tasks which fall to every woman's lot.' "The president then led the way to the Blue Room, where he introducecd each guest to Madame Curie. This over, the party stepped out on the lawn where the camera artists had their part to perform, when the reception was over. "Madame Curie sailed for France Saturday, June 25, on the White Star liner Olympic, which also carried the radium which was presented to her in this country. "The radium, which she carries with her as a gift from the women of America, will be contained in a beautiful mahogany box which is lined with lead and steel, the lead being an inch thick, the steel one and one-half inches thick. Although it is a small box, for the gramme of radium it contains, is only the size of a peanut, the total weight is 130 pounds. "Directly in the center of the box are several small compartments, formed of lead, and strrrounded by steel, each one the right size to admit a small glass tube containing a portion of the radium salts, the form in which the metal is handled for shipment. These compartments are covered with heavy, bellshaped lead and steel. The lid of the mahogany box is inlaid with a gold plate, marked with the following inscription: 'Presented by the President of the United States on behalf of the women of America to Madame Marie Sklodowska Curie, in recognition of her transcendent service to science and humanity in the discovery of radium. The White House, May 20, 1921.' "The preparation for shipping the radium in the box was carried out under the direction of W. H. Wadleigh, acting chief of the radium laboratory of the Bureau of Standards. The MADAME CURIE et shipment is valued at something more than $100,000. An ounce of radium, at the same rate, would be worth $3,120,000. Ts produce this 'thimbleful' of radium which is going out on the Olympic, five. Hundred tons of carnotite ore were treated, requiring 500 tons of chemicals and 1000 tons of coal in the process. Carnotite is a low grade ore resembling sandstone, combining uranium and vanadium. The presence of radium in the ore was discovered by Madame Curie. The ore is found in this country chiefly in Colorado and Utah. "Our readers willl be interested to know that some very rich camnotite ore is now being mined at the Kearns property near Monticello, Utah. In June of this year, Mr. E. V. Woolley a miner of this city dug up a fossil tree on that property that was'so rich in uranium and radium that it brought the company $12,500.00. Mr. Woolley says the richest ore is found in fossil trees and fossil bones that lie near the surface in a soft yellow colored sand stone formation. "Tt will be asked: what is radium? It is one of the ninetyfour known elements—such as bismuth or barium, gold, silver or tin—discovered in 1898. Radium gives off heat and light all the time and in 1700 years half of its strength is gone. It sounds most miraculous to say, but it is a fire that burns up one-half its substance in 1700 years. You do not give it more fuel in that time and it only loses about one-half of its life and energy. "Tt draws its supplies of energy from an hitherto unknown source, and obeys as yet undiscovered laws. There is something sublime about its aloofness from, and its indifference to its external environment. It seems to claim lineage with worlds beyond us, fed with the same unquenchable fires, urged by the same uncontrollable mechanism which keeps the great suns alight in the heavens over endless periods of time.' _ "This mysterious metal goes on disintegrating, breaking up, giving off heat and light until it is exhausted in about 4000 years. In breaking up or burning up it gives off three kinds of rays—alhpa, beta, and gamma rays. The infinitesimal sparks or rays fly off into space at the rate of 186,000 miles per second; that is, one of these rays travels around the earth seven times in one second. It is these rays that, sometimes used, instead of surgery, in the treatment of a number of patholigical conditions—such as cancer, uterine fibroids, uterine hemorrhage, growths about the nose and in the throat, and even on the eyeball itself. It has performed many most wonderful cures, and, as we learn more about it, it is probable that it will prove to be a still greater blessing in the future than it has been in the past. We are trying to learn when it should be used, and when it is 
 not proper to use it; because it is a most powerful agent and can do harm as well as good. "Tt should be remembered also that there is always a gang of unscrupulous quacks advertising radium pills, radium waters, and radium pads for the cure of all human ills. These are swindles and do not contain a particle of radium. "The world's supply of radium comes mostly from the carnotite ore which is mined in Colorado and eastern Utah. "The chemist analyzes all known substances and separates them into their fundamental parts or elements. He finds these parts or elements to be different, the one from the other, and yet, he is unable to convert the one into the other. "In analyzing a piece of rock, for example, the chemist may find that it contains several elements, such as gold, silver, copper, lead, bismuth sodium, uranium, or radium. New elements are being discovered all the time. "The elements, copper, gold, lead, sulphur, iron, tin, carbon were discovered before there was any human history written. The names of their wonderful discoverers are always interesting, but they have been lost in the mists of the far off ages before history began. The element platinum was discovered in 1741 by the chemist Wood. Chlorine was discovered in 1774 by Schule. Hydrogen was discovered in 1766 by Cavendish. Oxygen was discovered by Priestley, in 1774. It is the most abundant of all the elements. Oxygen and its compounds forms one half of the earth's crust. "Silicon from the Latin silex or flint is the most abundant element after oxygen. It forms sandstone, sand and glass. Aluminum, discovered in 1888 by Wohler, is the most abundant of all the metallic elements. It is found in many rocks. Some of the elements are gases, some are solids. Nitrogen was discovered in 1772 by Rutherford. Oxygen and hydrogen are gases. When two atoms of hydrogen and one atom of oxygen unite water is formed. "Potassium and sodium were discovered by Davy, in 1807. Helium was discovered by Ramsey, in 1895, and radium by Madame Curie and her husband in 1898. Nearly all the ninety or more elements have been discovered since the year 1800. Light is growing in the world, and light is truth, truth is light."