[Vol34 | March 1947 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Editorial | Title: Proper Conduct Garff]

EDITORIAL 9 
VOL. 34 MARCH 1947
Proper Conduct in Church Services President Joseph Smith stated that the business of the conference had closed, and the remainder would be donated to instruction. It is an insult to a meeting for persons to leave just before its close. If they must go out, let them go half an hour before. No gentleman will go out of a meeting just at closing. THE above quotation was taken from the Documentary History of the Church, and is part of the instructions given to members of the Church by the Prophet Joseph Smith at the close of conference held in April 1843.
Those of us who attended both the Relief Society conference and Church conference held last October, observed the large numbers of people who, five to ten minutes before the close of the sessions, rose and left the meetings, creating a considerable disturbance and drawing attention to themselves and away from the speaker, or from the announcements being made from the stand. It is, indeed, as the Prophet said, an insult to the meeting to leave before its close. 'There are occasionally justifiable reasons for leaving before the benediction has been pronounced on a Church service. Certainly, people should not deny themselves the opportunity of attending conference or Church because they must leave a little early to catch a train, or for some other reason just as valid. However, more often than Page 182 not, people leave to avoid the rush which follows the closing of any gathering where large numbers of people are assembled. One rarely sees anyone leave the theater or concert hall before the final curtain, or before the last note has been played.
People usually stay, not only because of their interest, but also out of respect for those who are performing before them,-as well as out of consideration for others in attendance who are interested in remaining until the end.
Should we not, then, have even greater respect for those persons speaking at and conducting Church services in the name of the Lord?
Aside from the disrespect we show those who are presiding over any Church service, when we leave early, we are depriving ourselves of the blessings pronounced in the closing prayer. The closing prayer constitutes part of the service. The benedictions of conference are especially important to us as Church members. We should not forfeit our right to them for the sake of the few minutes gained by leaving before the benediction is pronounced.
Should we not, as Relief Society women, and mothers, set an example for our children, as well as other Church members, by remaining respectfully quiet through all Church services we attend, until their completion? G. R. G.