Luella N.
Adams and Ann P. Nibley Released From the General Board of Relief Society T is with sincere regret that the '| General Board of Relief Society announces the resignations of Luella N.
Adams and Ann P.
Nibley in January 1947. Due to increased home responsibilities, these faithful sisters have found it necessary to be released from their work as Board members.: Sister Luella N.
Adams has been a member of the Board since January 1940. She has served with the utmost devotion. Her many fine abilities and unusually good judgment, coupled with her long experience in Relief Society work, have made her assistance to the women of the Church a service of lasting value. Sister Adams is greatly loved by all the members of the Board and by Relief Society women everywhere. As a group of sisters, the Society wishes her happiness in all her future endeavors. Sister Ann P.
Nibley was called to the General Board in December 1941. Her charming personality and her sweet spirit have endeared her to the women of the Church. She has worked for perfection in all her assignments, and her meticulous regard for the details of Relief Society work has been of invaluable assistance to her associates and to the Society. Sister Nibley will always merit the love and appreciation of Relief Society women everywhere. ~ > oe THIS IS SPRING Evelyn Fijeldsted A radiant sunset soon to be the dawn That lights a waiting, crocus-sprinkled lawn; Illusive, lilting winds and bending tree; A blossom sheltering a night-chilled bee, Robins drifting over furrowed land, Tiny swirls of century-driven sand; The living, throbbing warmth of noontide glow, A budding plum tree drinking melting snow; Sunlight, glinting through a breathless calm, The blending of a secret, perfumed balm; A stormy measure gone, and hope renewed, The stillness of a starry interlude; Each day's unceasing versatility, The night's capricious, feigned uncertainty, All the subtle sweetness earth can bring, This is restoration—this is spring.