[Vol34 | March 1947 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Pioneer Stories and Lyman]

Pioneer Stories and Incidents HANDCART PIONEERS President Amy Brown Lyman [This is the seventh in a series of true pioneer incidents to be published by The Relief Society Magazine in honor of the 1947
Utah Centennial celebration.—Ed.] AMONG the stories which tell A of the early settlement of Utah, and of the great heroism of the settlers themselves, perhaps the most dramatic, as well as the most pathetic, are those connected with the handcart pioneers— pioneers who were so-called because they crossed the plains with the aid of handcarts. In all, there were ten companies of these pioneers, made up of 3,000 individuals, who came to Utah between the years 1856 and 1861, the first company arriving in Salt Lake Valley in September 1856, and the last one in September 1860.
They came mostly from Europe—from the British Isles and Scandinavia.
These daring and courageous pioneers landed at New York, or Boston, and proceeded, by rail, to Iowa City which was the western terminus of the Rock Island Railroad, and the outfitting point for the handcart companies.
From there, — they traveled across Iowa to the Missouri River, and on to Utah, following the old Mormon Trail.
This unique method of travel was adopted because it was inexpensive, and because it seemed to be the best means of bringing in the largest number of those who were desirous of emigrating. The rate of only $45 to come from Liverpool to Salt Lake City made it possible for many, who had been anxiously waiting and praying for an opportunity to gather to Zion with the saints, to come, who otherwise would not have been able to do so. Page 178 At the same time, it brought the travelers to Utah in as little time as did ox teams.
Almost anyone could walk as fast as a yoke of oxen could travel. The journey across the plains required from three to four months.
These handcart companies were made up of men, women, and children, the majority of whom walked the entire distance of 1300 miles, pulling and pushing their carts, which were loaded with their baggage and rations.
Only a few wagons accompanied each group to help with the heaviest baggage and provisions, and to provide for hospital service.
These noble and courageous converts waded through rivers and streams, trudged through deep sand and mud, tramped over rough and rocky roadways, and climbed hills and mountains.
Walking across the plains was not an entirely new undertaking at that time, however, as many of the covered-wagon pioneers before this had walked a good portion of the distance from the Missouri River, to relieve the tired, overworked teams; but pushing and pulling handcarts, in addition to merely walking, was real labor, which demanded both strength and courage. The handcart companies were setup for one company of 500.
Individuals consisted of 120 carts, five twenty-five seasoned and substantial, and therefore, much repair work was require on the way- | every case, handcart travel was hard and strenuous. It was especially so for the aged, and for those from the larger cities, who had factories, and offices, and were thus poorly prepared for such an experience. It was also quite hazardous.
These camps lacked the protection which the heavy covered wagons gave to other companies, and the people were more exposed to the elements, and to the Indians and wild animals, which were ever to be reckoned with. In one instance, the Indians ran with the beef cattle, tramp by a frightened herd of buffalo on a stampede. Nevertheless, in spite of hardships and difficulties, these travelers, like those who came in covered wagons, often drew their carts together of an evening, and around the campfire sang songs, made speeches, and told stories. In the main, handcart travel was quite successful.
Eight of the companies which started out early in the summertime crossed successfully and arrived safely, often having fewer deaths than did the ox caravans; but there were two ill-fated companies— the Willie and Martin companies, which began the journey in mid and late July of 1856, too late in the season, and suffered severely before being rescued and helped into the Valley the following November.
These companies had been delayed, in t he beginning, because the carts were not ready. Then, on the way, there had been additional de-lay because some of the carts did not hold up, making extensive repair work necessary.
These delays brought about such a shortage of food that rationing had to be re-sorted to.
Although each emigrant was allowed only seventeen pounds of luggage in the first place, it became necessary to lighten the loads, and clothing and bedding, so much needed later, had to be discarded.
Added to all this, severe cold weather set in much earlier than usual. As a result, there was great suffering from both cold and hunger, and ap-proximately 15 0 deaths occurred before the rescue parties from Utah reached them. The faith, courage, endurance, and heroism demonstrated by the members of these unfortunate companies would be hard to equal, even on the battlefield, and it is most fit-ting that two monuments have been erected, in Wyoming, to their memory, by the Utah Pioneer Trails and Landmarks Association. One is at Rock Creek, where seventeen per-sons passed away in a single night, and lie buried in one grave; and the other is on the highway, across the Sweetwater from Martin's Hollow, about two miles west of Devil's Gate.