[Vol34 | March 1947 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Progressive Leadership Madsen]

Bishop's Building. BS Salt Lake City 1, Utah. Page 184 PROGRESSIVE leadership is one of the basic needs of the hour in every department of life. Its importance is seen on every hand. Without its presence, eminent success is impossible. Every great achievement is predicated upon its guidance. This is verified in the lives and works of all great persons, and in all epochs of history. In its widest sense, good leadership implies all factors that tend toward maximum results in visioning, planning, promoting, unfolding, guiding, directing, and building.
The fact that leadership involves these several factors promptly suggests that to become efficient in its exercise one must necessarily become schooled and disciplined in many branches of study. Among these, the following should claim our immediate attention: personality, tact, organizing ability, humor, and musicianship.
Personality
It is generally conceded that congenial, friendly, sympathetic, and dynamic personality is fundamental to good leadership. Such a personality emanates from the heart, and is far more appealing and persuasive in its effect than much reasoning and cultivated veneer.
Tact
Tact is the door to success in any endeavor. It is that characteristic quality wherewith one understands prejudices and misunderstandings. Through tactful approaches, individuals and groups are made to see newer and broader horizons and wider and higher perspectives. These urges are indispensable to wholesome and progressive results in leadership.
Organizing Ability
Proper and appropriate organization is fundamental to every enduring structure in society. Ability to effect it is, therefore, a gift to be cherished. In music leadership, this gift is of utmost importance.
Humor
Humor is a social lubricant. People of experience know that where reason fails, humor succeeds. Negative conditions are eliminated through its application. In music leadership, negative conditions frequently arise that can be corrected or adjusted only through the subtle power of humor. It is well to remember that humor laughs with people, and not at them.
Musicianship
By musicianship is meant a broad and thorough understanding of all necessary branches of music. A few of these are:
(1) Ability to read and interpret the ordinary page of music. This involves: (a) standard of rhythm; (b) keys (major and minor); (3) tempo (speed and rhythm); (4) dy-
Page 185 186  (4)dynamics (loudness or softness of volume); (5) clef signs; (6) notology (notes, rests, dots, etc.); (7) symbology (signs, repeat marks, sharps, flats, etc.); (8) terminology (terms relating to rhythm, tempo, dynamics, etc.). The following books will prove invaluable in the study of the above elements of musicianship: Elson: Music Dictionary, Ditson R. S. Smith: Elementary Music Theory, Ditson Gherkens: Fundamentals of Music, Ditson Gherkens: Terminology and Notation, A. S. Barnes Wedge: Ear Training and Sight Singing, G. Schirmer Diller: First Theory Book, G. Schirmer (9) Aural training (ear-training), learning how to hear and to perform what appears on the printed page of music; (10) technique of the baton and the routine of conducting, (definite baton patterns and a standard system of procedure in conducting). For the study of conducting, use: Gherkens: Essentials in Conducting. Wodell: Choral Conducting. Cornwall: Conducting. (11) Proper discrimination in the choice of song material that is appropriate and suitable to the group; (12) the philosophy and psychology of interpretation (discovering and expressing the context of the word message and the content of the musical meaning). For this study, use: RELIEF SCCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1947
Lusey: Expression in Singing, Novello. Britan: The Philosophy of Music, Longmans, Green. M. G. Evans: Primer Facts About Music, Presser Co. (13) The art and beauty of singing (the correct and normal method of singing, pure and prolonged voweling, distinct and quick consonants, resonant and rich tone quality ). The following books will be found helpful in this last named branch of study toward musicianship: Green: Psychology of Singing, MacMillan & Company. Witherspoon: Singing, G. Schirmer. Fillebrown: Resonance in Singing and Speaking, Ditson. Gould: Successful Singing, Axelrod Publications. It should be evident, from the above discussions, that the spirit and power of leadership can be acquired through diligent, constant study, and through regular practice. It may begin from any level of present musical ability and attainment. It is earnestly hoped that all stake and ward Relief Society officers interested in musical activities will be deeply concerned with the need and desirability of progressive leadership in their work, as briefly suggested and outlined in this article. It would be to the advantage of all concerned to have within the Relief Society libraries, books from the above lists on the various branches of music, which can be used as needed by those who are directing the music activities of the organizations.