[Vol13 | November 1926 | Sequence: 12b | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson I - Theology and Testimony - Paul]

LESSON I
Theology and Testimony
(First Week in January)
PAUL
A. Paul Before His Conversion. Paul was born of Hebrew parents in the Roman city of Tarsus on the coast of the Mediterranean Sea. He was of the Tribe of Benjamin. He was given the name of Saul after one of the Kings of Israel which in Greek signifies waddling. His Roman name was Paul, meaning little. His birth in a Roman city made him a freeborn Roman. His vocation was that of a tent-maker. He went from Tarsus to Jerusalem and studied under the noted theologian, Gamaliel. He was an ardent student and zealous religionist of the sect known as the Pharisees who believed in the resurrection of the body and were very strict. He says of himself: "I am verily a man which am a Jew, born in Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, yet brought up in this city at the feet of Gamaliel, and taught according to the perfect manner of the law of the fathers, and was zealous toward God, as ye all are this day."?Acts 22:3.

It is recorded of him: "And because he was of the same craft, he abode with them, and wrought: for by their occupation they were tentmakers." Through the errors of his home traditions and the narrowness of his school life, his sincerity and zeal was so misdirected that he became conscientiously and relentlessly a persecutor of the followers of Jesus. Even if he heard Jesus preach the doctrine of doing as you would be done by, Saul could not see the truth through the veil of pharisaical prejudice nor could he hear it because of the ear-pads of sect intolerance. The record of his conduct, guided by a conscience based upon untruth and bias, was made by the historian. It is from Paul's statement of the facts to the Lord in vision and his testimony before the court where he was on trial. He tells the tribunal that in zeal towards God, he persecuted the Saints unto death and sent men and women bound to prison because of their belief. He goes further and testifies to the court concerning his interview with the resurrected Savior, saying: "And it came to pass, that, when I was come again to Jerusalem, even while I prayed in the temple, I was in a trance; "And saw him saying unto me, Make haste, and get thee quickly out of Jerusalem: for they will not receive thy testimony concerning me. "And I said, Lord, they know that I imprisoned and beat in every synagogue them that believed on thee: "And when the blood of thy martyr Stephen was shed, I also was standing by, and consenting unto his death, and kept the raiment of them that slew him."?Acts 22:17-20. Paul's career before conversion is an object lesson illustrative of the theological truths that sincerity is not a sufficient guarantee of righteousness; that the human conscience is largely the result of tradition, education, and interest.
B. The Conversion. This was a pivot event in the life of a great character. Paul never tired of testifying to its miraculous actuality. It was not too good for an assembled mob. From the stairway of a castle, he said: "Men, brethren, and fathers, hear ye my defence, which I make now unto you."?Acts 22:1. "And it came to pass, that, as I made my journey, and was come nigh unto Damascus about noon, suddenly there shone from heaven a great light round about me. "And I fell unto the ground, and heard a voice saying unto me, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? "And I answered, Who art thou, Lord? And he said unto me, I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom thou persecutest. "And they that were with me saw indeed the light, and were afraid; but they heard not the voice of him that spake to me.
"And I said, What shall I do, Lord? And the Lord said unto me, Arise, and go into Damascus; and there it shall be told thee of all things which are appointed for thee to do."?Acts 22:6-10. It was good enough for a King's Court: "At midday, O king, I saw in the way a light from heaven, above the brightness of the sun, shining round about me and them which journeyed with me "And when we were all fallen to the earth, I heard a voice speaking unto me, and saying in the Hebrew tongue, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks. "And I said Who art thou, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest."?Acts 26:13-15. It is little wonder that the story of his conversion was so dear to Paul for it was the event of a change of front of his sincere soul; a change from error to truth; from bigotry to meekness; from intolerance to forbearance. The crowning part of the miracle was reached when Saul, the brother to the self-satisfied sinner, cried out: "What shall I do Lord?" Behind this exclamation was a complete surrender, something more than a joyous acquiescence. Saul had said in his own way, "Thy will be done," and no Christian conversion is complete without a soul-state that is an urge to the expression, "Lord, what wouldst thou have me do?"
C. Paul's Career After Conversion. He received his sight and was baptized and began preaching Christ in Damascus. "And Ananias went his way, and entered into the house; and putting his hands on him, said, Brother Saul, the Lord, even Jesus that appeared unto thee in the way as thou camest hath sent me, that thou mightest receive thy sight, and be filled with the Holy Ghost. "And immediately there fell from his eyes as it had been scales: and he received sight forthwith, and arose, and was baptized."?Acts 9:17-18. "But Saul increased the more in strength, and confounded the Jews which dwelt at Damascus, proving that this is very Christ. "And after that many days were fulfilled, the Jews took counsel to kill him."?Acts 9:22-23. He communed with the Savior in the temple: "And it came to pass, that, when I was come again to Jerusalem, even while I prayed in the temple, I was in a trance; "And saw him saying unto me, Make haste, and get thee quickly out of Jerusalem: for they will not receive thy testimony concerning me. "And I said, Lord, they know that I imprisoned and beat in every synagogue them that believed on thee: "And when the blood of thy martyr Stephen was shed, I also was standing by, and consenting unto his death, and kept the raiment of them that slew him. "And he said unto me, Depart: for I will send thee far hence unto the Gentiles."?Acts 22:17-21. He was an object of fear among the Saints and of hate among the disbelieving Jews:

"And after that many days were fulfilled, the Jews took counsel to kill him."?Acts 9:23. "And when Saul was come to Jerusalem, he assayed to join himself to the disciples: but they were all afraid of him, and believed not that he was a disciple."?Acts 9:26. He was ordained an apostle: "Whereunto I am ordained a preacher, and an apostle, (I speak the truth in Christ, and lie not;) a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and verity."?I Timothy 2:7. When we follow him through his four great missionary journeys, we are led to think of him as the peerless preacher of his age. A glimpse of the time spent and the territory covered may be obtained by what he wrote to the Galatians: "Neither went I up to Jerusalem to them which were apostles before me; but I went into Arabia, and returned again unto Damascus. "Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter, and abode with him fifteen days. "But other of the apostles saw I none, save James, the Lord's brother." "Afterwards I came into the regions of Syria and Cilicia; "And was unknown by face unto the churches of Judea which were in Christ: "But they had heard only, That he which persecuted us in times past, now preacheth the faith which once he destroyed."?Galatians 1:17-19, 21-23. His missionary correspondence forms a very important part of our New Testament scripture. It consists of letters to the various churches and to individual missionaries. Some of these important letters were written while he was a prisoner at Rome. That he was great as an organizer is evident, for he established and fostered Christian churches at Rome, Corinth, Galatia, Ephesus, Philippi, Colossia, Thessalonia. As a theologian, Paul is quoted more extensively than any other writer of his dispensation. In our thirteenth Article of Faith a most appreciative tribute is paid to this apostle of the meridian of time. From some of his minor utterances, attempts have been made to substantiate celibacy as a church doctrine, but the apex of his utterances on marriage is reached when he says, "Nevertheless, man is not without the woman in the Lord, nor the woman without the man." Thus proclaiming marriage as a pre-requisite for exaltation in the Kingdom of God. His eloquence may be judged by the expression he brought forth from King Agrippa, "Paul, Paul, thou almost persuadest me to be a Christian," and his written discourse on charity marks him as a man of letters of the first rank. His invitation to speak before the joint session of the two great schools of philosophy at Athens is an acknowledgment of his eminence as a scholar.
His character was one of extraordinary strength and remarkable sweetness. How he was hated by the vanquished opponents of Christianity is shown in the following: "And when it was day, certain of the Jews banded together, and bound themselves under a curse, saying that they would neither eat nor drink till they had killed Paul."?Acts 23:12. How he was loved and trusted by his brethren, the apostles, is shown in the words of Peter: "And account that the longsuffering of our Lord is salvation; even as our beloved brother Paul also according to the wisdom given unto him hath written unto you."?II Peter 3:15. No one can doubt his satisfaction with earth life and his hope and faith concerning the life to come in the light of his last letter to his adopted son Timothy, wherein he says: "For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. "I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith: "Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day: and not to me only, but unto all them also that love his appearing."?II Timothy 4:6-8. An inspired description of Paul by the Prophet Joseph Smith tells us: "He is about five feet high; very dark hair; dark complexion; dark skin; large Roman nose; sharp face; small black eyes, penetrating as eternity; round shoulders; a whining voice, except when elevated, and then it almost resembled the roaring of a lion. He was a good orator, active and diligent, always employing himself in doing good to his fellow men."?Compendium, p. 287.
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
1. Show that sincerity is not a sufficient guarantee for righteousness.
2. How does the life of Paul indicate that the conscience, in a great measure, depends on tradition, education, and interest?
3. Where did the conversion of Paul reach its climax?
4. Quote a memory gem from Paul's written discourse on charity.
5. Name Paul's missionary letters preserved and published in the New Testament. How many of these letters were written to branches of the Church, and how many to individual missionaries?
6. Quote from Paul's last letter to Timothy, showing his satisfaction with his mission on earth and his hope and assurance concerning the life to come.
7. How are the teachings of Paul related to our Articles of Faith?