LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in January) EMOTIONAL PROBLEMS OF CHILDHOOD?INTRODUCTION The study of the emotional life of individuals and the part that the emotions play in conduct is one of the main concerns of modern psychologists. The realm of the emotions is still practically unexplored, and many of the most enlightening researches of today are those which attempt to analyze and interpret the emotional experiences and their effect on personality. Our discussions to date have dealt with the physical and mental aspects of personality. It has been noted that the degree of health and the degree of mental capacity are important factors in determining an individual's success and happiness or his failure and unhappiness. From previous studies, it would appear that a young boy or girl in good health, completing the eighth grade at the average age and receiving good marks, has every opportunity to continue his high school education and later become economically and socially useful. While good health and a normal intelligence are valuable assets to an individual, there are many persons who fail?educationally, - economically, and socially?who have good health and normal intelligence. There are persons who cannot hold a job, shiftless tramps who wander from town to town, girls and boys in corrective institutions, men and women in prisons, and men, women and children in mental hospitals who are physically and intellectually normal. Those physically and intellectually handicapped contribute their share to the above mentioned "social failures" but physical disabilities and feeble-mindedness do not offer the explanation for the failure and maladjustment of most of the dependent, delinquent and mentally unstable persons. Part of the explanation of such maladjustments is to be found in the social environment of the individual. Deadening poverty, the influence of demoralizing associates, broken homes, etc., often are responsible for dependency and delinquency. The effect of these social factors on personality development will be the subject of later discussions. Other explanations of failure and instability are to be found in unwholesome emotional reactions. This and the following three lessons will deal Sumarily with the emotional problems of adjustment. It is difficult to give an exact definition of emotion, or to enumerate or classify the emotions, as the subject has met with 
 some disagreement among authorities. Emotion is sometimes defined as a "stirred up state of mind." It is more exact, however, to consider emotion as a stirred up state of the body, of which the mind is a part. Grief, for instance, is an unhappy state of mind, but, grief, too, interferes with digestion and other bodily processes. Anger, joy, disgust are each peculiar mental states, but each of these emotions affects the physical state as well as the mental; anger is accompanied with rapid pulse and trembling, joy stimulates the glands, and disgust frequently causes nausea. Physical states, on the other hand, are accompanied by certain emotions. Stimulated nerves may bring unwarranted good spirits; fatigue may be accompanied by irritability; pain or infection may - result in extreme melancholy. Emotions are affected by mental and physical conditions. Likewise mental and physical conditions are affected by the emotions. The interplay is so close that it is often difficult to determine which is cause and which effect. While various psychologists' classification of the emotions do not entirely agree, it is not important in our discussion to enter into their disagreement. Grief, rage, fear and-love are recognized as fundamental emotions, and some lists include mirth,. Disgust, curiosity, pity, hate, shame and tenderness. "Emotions are as numerous as are the shades of feeling," our author states. Emotional life is changing and dynamic, and eludes exact definition. While the emotions listed above are quite easily recognized, it is more difficult to determine their origins. Emotions are associated with our instincts, and are sometimes described as the feeling phase of instincts. Instincts, too, defy exact definition or description. They are recognized as man's heritage from his ancestors and the list includes such spontaneous attitudes or responses as curiosity, self-assertion, reproduction, feeding, parental instinct, gregariousness, flight, pugnacity, etc. These and other instincts are usually placed in one of three categories?the ego or self instinct, the sex or love instinct, and the herd or social instinct. The motive behind our conduct is a desire to satisfy one of these three instincts. A person's first instinct is to maintain itself, by securing food, shelter, clothing and comforts. The motive which directs his effort is the ego, or self instinct. A second desire of the race is to find expression in tenderness and love, which is exemplified in the strong feeling that an individual has for his home and family. A third desire is to gain the approval and approbation of our associates?in the family, in school, in the neighborhood, and in the community. These three instinctive desires or tendencies are closely related to the emotions. If satisfaction is gained in any one desire, pleasurable emotions accompany the effort and result. If, on the other hand, these instinctive tendencies do not find expression or satisfaction the individual feels thwarted, and will seek some means of overcoming his feeling of frustration. It is obvious that these instincts often oppose one 'another. A young woman in love with a man of whom her parents and friends do not approve, finds her emotions all upset. Her love and herd instincts are at conflict with each other, and her emotional life will be temporarily or permanently disturbed by her conflicting emotions. A young person ambitious to go away to school, but held at home by family responsibilities which he cannot shirk because of his affection for his family and his desire to be thought well of by them and his friends, may also find his emotions at war among themselves. While a person may attempt to meet frustration of any of these desires in a calm, rational manner, he may not always succeed. The emotiorts and instincts are not subject to conscious control, but are the result of subconscious motivation. While a person may attempt to set aside an ambition, or overcome the grief of the loss of a loved one, or consider the good will of his community unimportant, he may fail in his resolution. His deliberate attempt to crowd out or "repress" an emotion, may lead to other difficulties. We subconscious will attempt to gain other satisfaction to repay "compensate" for the frustration. Such compensatory conduct - be wholesome?it may also be the basis of undesirable behavior. It must not be understood that emotions cannot be modified. Because of their varying shades and degrees, and because of infinite possibilities of expression, emotional patterns may be changed and modified. The period of childhood is considered the most fruitful period to modify unwholesome attitudes and behavior patterns. The medical expert, known as a psychiatrist, by studying conduct analyses and interprets the emotional basis of unwholesome attitudes and abnormal behavior. Some of the children whose problems were primarily of an emotional nature will be discussed in subsequent lessons. Reference: Challenge of Childhood?Introduction, Emotional Problems (pages 151-162). QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What are the four aspects of personality? 2. Why might a person with good health and normal intelligence be a social failure? What is an emotion? Name some common emotions. What are the three main classifications of instincts? 'What effect does frustration of instincts have on the emotions? Explain how instincts may cause emotional conflict. Why can we not control emotions by conscious effort? What is a psychiatrist?