A NOBLE WOMAN.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I feel it my duty to write a few incidents in the life of my
beloved mother, Elizabeth C. Rawson, who passed away
from earth at 10:30 p. m. April 21st 1890, after an illness of
ten days, she had a light stroke of paralysis which deprived
her of her speech, but she kept her right mind to the last.
	She was the wife of the late Horace S. Rawson and was
born Oct. 18,1807, in Montgomery County, Tennessee.
She was married Oct. 9, 1825, settled in Randolph Co.
Indiana, and was baptized a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints by Elder Levi W. Hancock in
1831; her husband joined a few months after. In 1832
they gathered with the Saints in Jackson Co. Missouri; they
were driven by a mob from their home five times, and finally
came to the valley and to Ogden in 1850, passing through
all the incidents of a pioneer life without a murmur. Owing
to her infirm age she came to Harrisville a short time ago
to live with her children. She was the mother of 13 child-
ren, 95 grandchilren, 155 great grandchildren in all 263,
she was aged 82 years, 6 months, 3 days. She was chosen
as a Teacher of the Relief Society where she labored faith-
fully for many years, she never resigned her office. She
bore a strong testimony to the work of God she knew for
herself that this was the true Church of Jesus Christ of Lat-
ter-day Saints, she died as she had lived full of faith and
love for all with whom she became acquainted. The
funeral obsequies were held at the East Harrisville school-
house, Bishop P. G. Taylor presiding, consoling remarks
were made by Pres. C. F. Middleton, Bishop P. G. Taylor
and Patriarch Joseph Taylor who spoke of the many good
qualities of the deceased and family. A large assembly
viewed the remains and a long cortege accompanied them
to the Ogden City Cemetery where they were laid by the
side of her deceased husband, thus passes away an honest
and devout woman, an affectionate wife and a loving
mother.
		"Dearest mother thou hast left us,
		 Here thy loss we deeply feel, 
		But the God that has bereft us,
		He can all our sorrows heal."

		"Yet again we hope to meet thee,"
		When death’s gloomy night has fled,


Then on earth with joy to greet thee
		Where no bitter tears are shed."

"Weep not that her toils are over, weep not that her race
	is run;
God grant we may rest as calmly when our work like her's
	is done;
Till then we would yield with gladness our treasures to
	Him to keep,
And rejoice in the sweet assurance, He giveth His loved
	ones sleep."
