	(MISS FRANCES E. WILLARD.) 
	A synonym for “knight” is "chevalier,”
and comes from the French "cheval" a horse,
because a chevalier rode on horseback; those
who tilled the ground were called villains,
and they walked—stubbed around on foot—
and were called "clod-hoppers" and all sorts of
things; and so the knights thought themselves
of great account because they could gallop off
to the wars on horseback. War was the aris-
tocratic profession and labor was something
very low down. But the good book predicts
the time when men shall "beat their swords
into plowshares and their spears into pruning
hooks." In these latter days the word
"knight" has been united with "labor," and
thus has been formed the right relationship.
The true knight, the true chevalier, the true
gentleman, is the one who works, and not the
one who goes off fighting and killing people
and devasting the world. We have come to
a better civilization, and something of worth
has been done for the country in giving it the
idea of the "knight" as part and parcel of the
"labor," bringing those two words, which have
been opposites, into one thought, and proving
that the laboring man can be a true gentle-
man, in all that goes to make up the beautiful
significance of that word.
	Many and urgent are the questions that the
workingmen and women of to-day must help
to decide. But whatever may be said of
methods in general, and of special methods, as
strikes, in particular, as a temperance woman,
I am confident that the best strike is to strike
against the saloon, and then to strike against
all politicians and parties that do wrong to the
workingmen. These are the two strikes that
will pay.
	The boycott of the saloons is the greatest
thing and the most helpful thing that has ever
come to the Knights of Labor, or a similar
organization. In one of the towns of Illinois a
banker put his private mark on the money he
paid out on Saturday night to the wage-workers
of the town who patronized his bank, and on
Monday night, of the $700 paid out and mark-

[column 2]
ed privately, over $300 had come back to him
from the saloons of that town! There is noth-
ing that cramps, belittles and dwarfs the possi-
bilities of the labor movement in America like
the saloons, and some guilds of workingmen
show that they know it by boycotting the
saloons and all liquor dealers, not allowing
them to be seated with reputable men whose
work brings back a good return.
	The labor question is a wonderful and
mighty issue; but wage-workers would do well
to study with it the temperance question, the
prohibition question. Do well to remember
that nine hundred million a year are expended
by our people in America across the counters
of the saloons and in the liquor trafic. Nine
hundred million dollars, to say nothing of the
money that is lost by those who would be at
work except for the temptation of the saloon!
	If the women of the nation had the ballot,
they and the good men of the nation would
hold the balance of power. We believe it
doesn't make any difference whether a woman
is a Protestant or Catholic, whether she is
black or white, cultured or ignorant, native or
foreign-born. We believe that, as a rule,
women, for the sake of protection for them-
selves, their children and their homes, stand
solidly against the dram-shop. We believe
that prohibition will come whenever woman
has the ballot. Out in Washington Territory
they gave women the ballot, and it was such
a terror to the saloonmen that they worked
away with the Supreme Court, and finally suc-
ceeded in making out that they had left out
a comma, or a semicolon, perhaps, or some
punctuation mark, or else some little word, in
the name of the bill, and so the Supreme Court
said that the bill was not legal. What hap-
pened? There were bonfires and rejoicings in
all the cities and towns and villages of Wash-
ington Territory. There were bells ringing,
not the bells in the steeples, by a large major-
ity, but the ding donging of all the old cow-
bells and sheep-bells they could get. There
was beer to be had on tap, placed there by
saloon-keepers, and a great jubilee from one
end of the Territory to another. Who got it
up? The saloons. Why did they get it up?
It was their celebration to think that the wo-
men had lost the battle. Tell us what the
liquor men are afraid of, and the temperance
people want it, and it is sure to be friendly
to the home.
	The workingmen are going to give us pro-
hibition by their votes; but, after they have
driven the nail of prohibition in a sure place,
they will need the hammer of woman's ballot
to rap it into place so that it would hold
strong and steady and durable.
	Another vital issue in the labor question is
that of the wages of women.
		Alas! that gold should be so dear,
		And flesh and blood so cheap.
	We read about women in Chicago who make
twelve shirts for 75 cents, and furnish their
own thread; about women who finish off an
elegant cloak for four cents; about children
who work twelve hours a day for $1 a week;
about some women who are glad to get the
chance that offers six cents for four hours'
work. Things like these our papers are full
of, and other things too bad to tell about.
	Now, many people say that they do not be-
lieve in paternal government. But we believe
in a paternal and maternal government,
and that if a few more women had something
to do with the affairs there would not be so
many white slaves in Chicago.
			(To be continued.)


Miss Eleanor L. Fleury, of the London
School of Medicine for Women, has a record
in three colleges of the highest honors that a
woman medical student can attain.


