[Column 1]
appointed him to stand as father and Patri-
arch to His chosen people; a people designed
to be the receptacle of His divine call; also
through the lineage of this people was des-
tined to be born the Redeemer of the world,
who will eventually reign King of kings and
Lord of lords over all His vast creation.
	Such a favored and exalted personage as
this old patriarch Abraham was, we would,
certainly without doubt—accept it as an
established fact, that he must be a perfect
pattern of righteousness, purity, and unsullied
virtue; without spot or blemish. But strange
as it may appear to this enlightened Christian
generation this honored and holy, God chosen
personage was a veritable polygamist at the
very time, while he was receiving the divine
law right from the mouth of Jehovah. Had
he lived in this age of morals and purity he
would have been thrust into prison, or per-
chance shot down in the street. Not only did
this ancient worthy practice the obnoxious
principle but he transmited it to his prosterity.
His grandson had four wives and thus it was
handed down from generation to generation as
long as the descendants of Abraham existed as
a nation. Moses the great law receiver and
law giver who also talked with God face to
face—received the law direct from Jehovah,
was himself also a polygamist.
	Thus do we trace the practice of this man
—condemned—principle down to the reign of
kings.
	King David a man after God’s own heart
had hundreds of wives and his son Solomon
after him, and in neither case were they even
reproved for the number of their wives.
	David was condemned and his wives taken
from him because of his sin in the case of
Uriah’s wife, and Solomon because of his tak-
ing strange wives from idolatrous nations.
Through the prophet Nathan God said, He
gave David his wives and would have done
more for him had he not sinned. There is not
an instance either in the old or New Testament
where a man was reproved or even censured
in the least for the number of his wives.
Surely if the Lord had been the least displeased
with the practice He would have forbidden it,
especially those receptacles of His divine
law. 
	On the contrary it is very plain He did
not.
	After the reign of David and Solomon little
mention is made of plurality of wives, but one
thing is certain, there cannot be found in
sacred or profane history anything to prove
that it was abolished before or since the
Christian ears, until we come down to the days
of Catholicism.
	After the establishment of the Christian
church at Rome and death of St. Peter heresy
began to creep into the church; they adopted
the rites and ceremonies of the heathen nations
around them. Splendid robes, mitres, tiaras,
wax tapers, crosiers, images, gold and silver
vases and so on were adopted into the church
from the Romans, Greeks, and Pagans from
their idolatrous institutions.
	The laws of Rome in regard to matrimony
were monogomy, and before three centuries of
the Cristian era had passed away restrictions
were placed on matrimony. All were restricted
to one wife and their priests to none. And so
the church continued to digress until scarcely
a vestige of its former self existed.
	Thus, in this, the 19th century what do we
now behold? a mere skeleton; scarcely that, for
it is not a perfect structure of the Primitive
Church; only an unsightly and deformed wreck
disrobed and disrupted
	Stripped of all its primitive adornments
and graces—without a Prophet, without
Apostles, or any guidance to hold them in
unison; that oneness which the Savior ex-
horted His disciples to adhere to.—
[Column 2]
	The Apostles and Prophets of the old
testament foresaw all these sad events; and
they also forsaw the restoration; not only the
restoration of the Gospel but the restoration
of all things, in the dispensation of the ful-
ness of times. The epoch so notable in
scripture, the theme of ancient Prophets and
also of former day saints, who through the
spirit of inspiration and visions of the Al-
mighty penetrated thousands of years down
from the era in which they lived and spoke
and prophesied, in such glowing terms of the
fulness of times, the restitution of all things
spoken of by all the holy prophets since the
world began.
	It would make this article too lengthy to
enumerate all that has to be restored. Suffice
it to say, every thing connected with this
planet, man and beast including the face of
the earth, with all the changes which sin and
and the adversary of all righteousness have
wrought to mar and deface its beauty, have
(from the sayings of the prophets) all, to be
restored in the times of the restitution of all
things.
	The next thing to be considered is, what is
the first of all to be restored? In all ages of
the world, when the Lord designs to over-
throw a place or people He sent a prophet to
warn them. In the case of the flood, Sodom
and Gomorah, Ninevah and many others too
numerous to mention, He always warned them;
then what are we to expect at the great event
of the restitution of all things? when the whole
vast universe is to be changed cleansed from
sin pollution, regenerated and restored to
its primeval beauty and purity; of course the
Lord would send a prophet who could through
the inspiration of Almighty God look through
the vista of unborn ages and acquaint the in-
habitants of the earth with the events about
to occur in the near future, thus prepare the
world for the great revolution about to take
place, and warn them of the judgments pre-
pared by an angry God to be poured out upon
them.
	The next thing to be restored is the gospel
in all its fulness and purity, with all its primi-
tive gifts and blessings that adorned it, as es-
tablished by Jesus Christ in the flesh.
	Consequently every principle of truth from
the earliest period of creation to the present
time, must be restored and linked together to
make a perfect chain, when the times of the
restitution of all things takes place. Now,
who dare assert that the principle of patriar-
chal marriage was not a divine principle? in
flat contradiction of Jehovah.
	Therefore as it stands forth substantiated by
the words of God, it must of necessity (accord-
ing to the Prophets) be restored. It is a part
and portion of the Gospel of Christ, for every
truth revealed to man through the inspiration
of the spirit of God, belongs to the Gospel and
is a portion of the grand and glorious plan of
salvation for the redemption of the human
family. But with many other glorious princi-
ples of salvation, it was cast out by the church
of Rome and trampled in the mire of heathen
mythology. Therefore, it must, with every
other principle of truth, Jehovah has in any
age of the world vouchsafed to fallen man, be
restored at the restitution of all things.
	We read of those who have professed to be-
lieve in this principle of patriarchal marriage,
but where was ever the man found; when has
the man ever lived, since the apostacy of the
Romish church, who dares to raise his voice in
public and promulgate this man-condemned
doctrine? None! until a Prophet of God-
holding the Holy Priesthood—clothed with
Divine authority to restore the pure, unadul-
terated principles of the Gospel of Christ, in
all its fulness, was raised up and commanded
to proclaim it to the world.
	He had, through the inspiration of Heaven,
[Column 3]
a perfect assurance of its consequences, he
knew if he proclaimed that obnoxions princi-
ple publicly, death would be the inevitable re-
sult; and human nature was weak and he
shrank from the fearful ordeal, but sustained
by infinite strength, he calmly and patiently
submitted to the Divine injunction; laid down
his precious and valuable life in defence of the
sacred principle.
	How important—how infinitely important,
in the plan of redemption, must be that princi-
ple of the Gospel, to require so noble a sacri-
fice; and how very careful should we be about
breathing one derogatory word, or speaking
lightly of a principle that cost the best blood
of the nineteenth century. Still with what
enmity and unabating hostility is that sacred
principle followed up. Its advocates incarcer-
ated in prison, their wives and children de-
nounced as illegal and illegitimate, cast out by
the law into the cold pittiless world, without
protection from those bound by love and cove-
nant to guard and protect them, and also, de-
barred from redress by the laws of the land.
A land baptised in blood to purchase the free-
dom and liberty which guarantees to every
individual the right to worship Almighty God
according to the dictates of his or her con-
science.
	Nevertheless, although the adversary may
rage and the nation conspire against the truths
of the Gospel—even all the world—to abolish
this Latter-day work, established by Almighty
God for the redemption of a fallen world, to
restore it to its pristine glory and splendor;
their efforts will prove futile; for who, or what
is man, that he should measure arms with His
Creator. Therefore fear not, or be cast down,
ye Saints of the Most High, but rather rejoice
that ye are of that assembly who are willing to
stand firm in the vindication of the truth and
commandments of Heaven, though not admis-
sible by the laws of the land, to practice the
principles in which we believe, yet we know in
whom we trust, that He is able, and in His
own due time, will deliver His people.
Although like a green bay tree, the enemies
of truth flourish for a short time—make lies
their refuge, behind which they strive to con-
ceal their hideous hydra-head; ere long the
whirlwind will sweep away their refuge of lies
aud the waters will overflow their hiding
place. And when the sword of Heaven is un-
sheathed and wars and bloodshed deluge the
land; and famine and pestilence shall sweep off
the inhabitants thereof, until few men are left,
then will the righteous, those who have stood
valiant for the cause of truth, stand in holy
places and be not moved. Therefore ye who
have kept all the commandments of God lift
up your heads and rejoice. 
