[Column 1]
WEDDING ANNIVERSARY.
	At "the old home" of the Howards' in Cotton-
wood on the 25th of June 1890—Mr. and Mrs.
Isaac Brockbank celebrated the thirtieth anni-
versary of their marriage.  Among the guests
were many of those who had graced the marriage
feast thirty years before.  In those days the
mention of "the Howard home" in Cottonwood
was significant of a good time; many a pleasure
party has been held there in the days gone by,
that will be remembered with vivid emotions
sacred to friendship while life shall last.  Of those
who were in the habit of assembling there in
those days some have gone to "that better land,"
but many yet remain who also shared in the fes-
tivities and hospitalities that were so enjoyable
and so cordially extended.
	Miss Kate Howard (Mrs. Brockbank) was the
eldest daughter of the Howard family, and has
now been married for many years, and is the
mother of a large and interesting family who were
not present on that auspicious day three decades
ago.  She appeared at her thirtieth anniversary
in the identical wedding dress, worn when a
young and blushing bride, which looked fresh and
charming, and the lady herself with her sparkling
black eyes, and wavy iron grey hair was all the
more stately and dignified for the crown of wife-
hood and motherhood she has wrought for her-
self out of the golden threads of her full and
beautiful life as the years have been borne along.
	The bridegroom's manner betokened happiness
and prosperity, if his appearance was not as
youthful as it had been thirty years before, and
the party altogether was a most enjoyable affair.
The feast was elaborate and served in excellent
style, the most delicious fruits and beautiful
flowers adorned the tables and the rare old china
and silver brought by the Howards from over the
seas, showed to great advantage.
	The presents from the family and friends were
in good taste, and suitable to the occasion; and
in short the festivities were all of a character
calculated to produce and leave a pleasant and
gratifying impression.  One of the interesting
features of the gathering, was the reading of a
poem in memory of the wedding day which had
been celebrated at the same place, composed by
a very dear friend Mrs. Emily H. Woodmansee.
	We add our sincere congratulations to Brother
[Column 2]
and Sister Brockbank on having reached this
milestone of the matrimonial journey, and hope
and trust they may arrive in safety together at the
fiftieth anniversary, and then and forever after en-
joy all the blessings spiritual and temporal with
the rich experiences that fall to the lot of those,
who are seeking eternal life in the celestial king-
dom.
A REMINISCENCE.
	[Affectionately inscribed to the author's esteemed friends
Mr. and Mrs. Isaac Brockbank, on the 30th anniversary
of their wedding day.]

Is't possible Katie 'tis thirty years since—
We danced at your wedding that sweet summer night,
While the birds sang their songs and th' wild roses bloom'd;
And Nature herself was to gladness attuned,
And existence was fraught with delight.

I recall so distinctly, that beautiful day—
In June, eighteen sixty, the time you was wed;
The bridegroom was buoyant, the neighbors were gay;
And "City folks" too, quite a goodly array—
Graced the feast so deliciously spread.

Hospitality! ope'd her beneficent hand;
And sweet strains of music pervaded the air;
The young "country couples" of course lent a hand,
And a ball (unexclusive) was cleverly planned,
'Twas refreshing indeed to be there.

'Twas a jubilant wedding! the high and the low—
Were equally honored in Utah, (just then):
One was good as another, (decidedly so);
And haughty, King Caste, wasn't potent, for lo—
There was really no proud "Upper Ten."

Times and customs have chang'd, sure we cannot but see,
The poor, are too often "left out in the cold."
Those primitive days were delightful to me,
I marvel, so many were happy and free
Without either silver or gold.

Surpassingly sweet, is the morning of life;
The future looks cloudless, the prospect is fair,
But later, we learn that afflictions are rife,
That mortals must struggle with sorrow and strife,
And wrestle with "Giant Despair."

But, thanks be to God, for the strength He bestows,
For the peace that He pours into desolate hearts;
When adversity's blast like a hurricane blows,
In "The Mighty One's" mercy the meek can repose;
Such comfort, "Our Father" imparts,

Oh Spring time of hope, evanescently bright,
Thy "castles" so shatter'd, we've ceased to deplore;
Shake hands, "Father Time" and with spurs speed the
flight—
For wisdom and rest, comes with age, and with night,
And friendship is sweet as of yore.

Ah! little it matters if tresses turn gray,
If eyes lose their luster, (as doubtless they do)
The loving, are lovely, and youthful for aye,
Though the body must weaken, and yield to decay—
The spirit for ever is new.

And, what if you're wedded, for thirty years more?
'Twill be only a preface to love's lasting theme;
When humanity's sorrows and failings are o'er—
On the opposite side of Eternity's shore—
Love and Truth will be valued as never before;
Then, we'll realize poesy's dream.

Life's practical lessons, are needful we know,
But conjugal pleasures, at times they destroy;
Affection, and patience, together should grow;
True sympathy, confidence, courage and lo,
All partners of love and of joy.
EMILY H. WOODMANSEE.
S. L. City, June 25, 1890.


