HEPHZIBAH.
XXIV.

Locked in the secret chamber of her heart,
	A living sorrow, nursed by silent grief;
Henceforth thro' all her life to be apart,
	Whatever else might come to bring relief.

	The next few days after Mrs. H. was install-
ed in the home of Miss B. as companion, were
very sad and sober ones, the weather was un-
pleasant and Hepsie was so low-spirited that
it seriously affected her health, and Miss B.
grew nervous and almost irritable. It was
just Christmas time too but there were no signs
of festivities in Nauvoo. No gay shop windows,
not even on Main street, everything seemed to
wear a sombre and desolate appearance.
	Hepsie's grief was something new and
strange to her new found friend, she could not
comprehend how she could cry day and night
too, and reproached her rather severely on two
or three occasions, showing very little
sympathy for her forlorn condition, except to
give her food and shelter. It was just as well
however; for to the young wife, no one per-
haps could have said exactly the right things;
and she seemed to desire most of all, to be left
to herself.
	"How can you grieve yourself to death for a
man who has treated you so cruelly? such a
helpless creature as you are too, taking you
away from every one you loved and cared for,
I should hate him. Why its all I can do to
endure being alone as I am, and for that mat-
ter I came of my own accord and had nobody
to leave that I cared a cent for, so I've nothing
to go back to."
	"But" said Hepsie, "you came for your re-
ligion did'nt you, and you can't give that up
whatever trials you may have. I know you
are lonely and I'm sorry you're disappointed
in me, I am not companionable, and perhaps I
never shall be again, but I mean to get well
and then I expect to teach, and earn my own
living."
	"You'll not teach here in Nauvoo, there's no
prospect of future prosperity here, the people
will have to move from this place, I'm pretty
sure of that, why Joseph was making every
calculation on going into the wilderness be-
fore he was killed, don't you know that he even
crossed over the river in the night to go, and
Emma and some of his friends induced him to
come back again!"
	"No, I did not know it, never had an idea
of the people leaving here, this is the gathering
place, and the Temple is to be finished and
dedicated, that must be done," said Hepsie.
	“Nauvoo is full of apostates, and many are
somewhat disaffected, who have not declared
themselves open enemies, a fire is smoldering
just about ready to burst, the crisis may come
at any time, and I'm not at all certain that the
Temple will be completed."
	"But Miss B. you will keep with the Saints,
go or stay with them, wherever their lot may
be cast?"
	"Mrs. H. you are very confiding, notwith-
standing your having been left so utterly de-
pendent, I should think you would be embit-
tered beyond trusting any one again, I posi-
tively don't appreciate such devotion."
	"My trust and faith is in my religion, not in
man. Henceforth my life and labor shall be.
given to the cause I have embraced."
	"You cannot do anything at present, look
at your poor thin face and colorless hands,
totally unfit and unprepared for work of any
sort."
	"I am not discouraged however," replied
Mrs. H. "I know now that my Heavenly
Father protects me since He sent you to me on
that dreadful night, when I was about to be
left so utterly alone."
	Christmas and the New Year came and went

[Column 2]

not however without awakening intense emo-
tions in Hepsie's heart, and stirring its inner
fountains to their utmost depths, no one to
speak to except auntie, as she called Miss B.,
and she was full of bitter repinings, that were
as unpleasant as the weather was cold and dis-
agreable, and there was nothing to call either
of them outside. Such intense loneliness, and,
Hepsie waiting, longing and praying fot a let-
ter from Harold or from home, yet dreading
to receive one lest it should confirm her sus-
picions. She knew the dear ones in the home
nest would write if they knew what to say, but
her lips were sealed, she could not speak of
her circumstances, lest it should seem like a
complaint. Day after day she looked anxious-
ly for news from Harold, she could not be-
lieve he had gone from her heart forever; she
looked forward to his return at some future
time when a full explanation would be made;
and at night she often dreamed of the fulfill-
ment of her bright hopes and ardent wishes.
The dreamy life she led, and the queer com-
panionship of her protectress, together with the
condition of her nervous system, tended to pro-
nounced melancholy, but she struggled in
prayer and the exercise of the best feculties
she possessed and conquered in part. One
evening there came a letter in the familiar hand-
writing she knew so well; poor child she trem-
bled so it was with difficulty she broke the seal,
her tears were falling in great drops like rain,
and it was hours before she could finish read-
ing it; Harold had writen to her as though he
had not wounded her beyond recovery; his
words were tender, but hard as it seemed to the
tender-hearted wife she felt they were hollow
and meaningless. He called her, "Hepise my
darling wife:—" how could he write like that;
knowing as he must, that he had separated
her from her dear ones, and that henceforth an
insurpassable chasm lay between them that
could never be spanned. Miss B. wanted to
know what news from far away, she had
guessed from Hepsie's excited manner that it
was from Harold; it was useless to question
her however, silence seemed to Hepsie the best
safeguard; then and forever after the contents
of that letter remained locked in her own
heart, and were never revealed to friend or foe,
yet looking back after the space of many
years and recalling the sweet and tender
words expressed therein, and remembering that
sweet Summer-time among the New England
hills when all things wore the couleur de rose,
she marveled that she had not given up all
for him and the promises he held out to her of
fidelity and devotion; it was the spiritual na-
ture that conquered and kept her from yield-
ing to Harold's entreaties to come to him in
the sunny Southern Islands.
	A few days later another letter came, and
finally the third and last, for never again by
word or message of any kind did Harold make
known to her any personal knowledge of him-
self or his after life.
	The words he had written met with no re-
sponse from her lips or hand, though we may
not know what impression they made, or what
answering echo they found hidden deep down
in her wounded woman's heart; but she lived
through all—cold and impenetrable seemingly,
but as the Spring days grew warm and bright,
a faint color came back to her pale lips and
cheeks.
	A final separation from Harold was inevita-
ble, he was not coming back, and she had such
an innate conviction of the divine mission of
Joseph Smith the Prophet, and the truths re-
vealed through him, of the everlasting Gospel
that she could not consent to leave Nauvoo
and the chosen people of God; though she
should henceforth be left dependent upon her
own exertions.
	A letter from Lucy Reynolds stating that
she was about to start for Nauvoo comforted

[Column 3]

her somewhat, and another soon after from
her mother saying, "we expect to come in Sep-
tember," seemed to awaken new life in her
dormant faculties.
	She talked much to Miss B. of her mother,
telling her of her wonderful faith, her know-
ledge of the Scriptures, and of her arguments
with learned men, especially ministers, who had
ridiculed the idea of Joseph Smith an unedu-
cated youth being a Prophet of God. She
sought to inspire in. Miss B. a greater degree
of faith, for it was very irksome to be associ
ated with one so unbelieving and worldly-
minded, one who had no spiritual life and who
was always dwelling on the dark-side of things.
She longed intensely for her mother, full of
faith and energy, thinking no sacrifice too
great to make for her religion. During the
winter she had gone out a few times only to
meetings and lectures in the Masonic Hall—it
was not far, but it was almost too much for
her, and Miss B. never wanted to go with her; 
but Hepsie kept alive a spark of living faith,
that enabled her to hold on to the truths of
which she had become so thoroughly con-
yinced since coming to Nauvoo, even though
there had been many stumbling blocks in her
pathway, yet her faith never wavered.
	Just before the news came from the East of
Lucy Reynold's and her husband's coming, she
received a verbal message from the Harveys'
Harold's father, mother and brother to come
to them at Laharpe, they fully believed if she
would, Harold could be induced to return
home once more. Harold's father would come
for her with an easy conveyance, and she
should be waited upon until she was fully re-
covered; "if she had not been so obstinate about
leaving Nauvoo," Mrs. Harvey's message said
repeating her very words, "Harold would not
have gone away, baby would have been living,
and much sorrow averted." This message
stung Hepsie to the very centre of her soul,
but with her accustomed outward serenity she
answered the brother and sister who had
brought her the word, (they were professed
Latter-day Saints) "I cannot leave Nauvoo; on
that point I am still as determined as ever, if
Harold comes he will find me here if I am liv-
ing at all."
	"But" added the stranger "the Saints will
certainly be driven from here into the western
wilds, you are not equal to such hardships."
	"If this people go from Nauvoo I shall go
to, my nome hereafter shall be with the Saints,
it is useless to ask me to go backward, I can-
not."
	"And you would give up your husband
and all, his family are well off, you would
never have to lift your finger, Mrs. Harvey
says you have decided literary taste, there
would be every opportunity for you as a writer
to make yourself known better hero in Illinois
than in New England where there are so many,
you understand."
	Hepsie knew these were Mrs. Harvey's own
words, but they made no impression upon her.
	"Then am I to say to the Harvey's who
wished me to urge you to come, that you re-
fuse to accept their proposals." 
	"Say to the Harvey's, I will not leave
Nauvoo though I should die of starvation in
the street."
	"And nothing more," said the stranger.
	"Only my love to Harold's brother, Oney
Andre."


There is no fit search after truth which does
not, first of all, begin to live the truth which
is known.—H. Bushnell.
	The longer I live the more certain I am
that the great difference between the great
and insignificant is energy—invincible deter-
mination—an honest purpose once fixed, and
then victory.— Goethe.


