MYTHS ABOUT WOMAN.

	Woman's first appearance has been a fruit-
ful subject for the legend mongers. The
Phoenician myth of creation is found in the
story of Pygmalion and Galatea. There the
first woman was carved by the first man out
of ivory and then endowed with life by
Aphrodite.
	The Greek theory of the creation of women,
according to Hesiod, was that Zeus, as a cruel
jest, ordered Vulcan to make woman out of
clay, and then induced the various gods and
goddesses to invest the clay doll with all their
worst qnalities, the result being a lovely thing
with a witchery of mien, refined craft, eager
passion, love of dress, treacherous manner, and
shameless mind.
	The Scandinavians say that as Odin, Vili,
and Ve, the three sons of Bor, wrere walking
along the sea beach they found two sticks of
wood, one ash and one elm. Sitting down the
gods shaped man and woman out of these
sticks, whittling the woman from the elm and
calling her Emia.
	One of the strangest stories touching the
origin of woman is told by the Madagascarenes.
In so far as the creation of man goes the
legend is not unlike that related by Moses,
only that the fall came before Eve arrived.
After the man had eaten of the forbidden fruit
he became affected with a boil on the leg, out
of which, when it burst, came a beautiful girl.
	The man's first thought was to throw her to
the pigs, but he was commanded by a mes-
senger from heaven to let her play among
the diggings until she was of marriageable age,
then to make her his wife. He did so, called
her Baboura, and she became the mother of all
races of men.
	The American Indians' myths relative to
Adam and Eve are numerous and entertain-
ing. Some traditions trace back our first
parents to white and red maize; another is that
man, searching for a wife, was given the
daughter of the king of muskrats, who, on be-
ing dipped into the waters of a neighboring
lake became a woman.	Ex.


During the summer, the Woman's. Tribune
will be published fortnightly instead of weekly.


