R. S. REPORTS.
SAN JUAN STAKE.
	The Quarterly Conference of the San Juan
Stake Relief Society was held at Bluff May 25,
1890. Pres. Jane M. Walton presiding.
	Singing "Lord we come before thee now."
Prayer by Bishop Jens Neilson. Singing "How
pleased and blessed was I."
	Pres. Jane M. Walton made the opening re-
marks, felt well to meet with the sisters, spoke
 of the different Wards she had visited since
last conference, and reported them as doing
well. Thought the sisters should be united,
in order to do the most good. Spoke at some
length on the duties of the Relief Society and
its members.
	Minutes of last Conference read and 
accepted.
	Pres. Kristen Neilson reported the Bluff
Society said it is in good running order, and


the sisters are trying to do all the good they
can. Pres. Abigail Stevens reported the Olio
Society, and invited the officers of the different
branches to attend a reception to be given at
Olio on the 12th of July in honor of the
organization of the society.
	Treasurer Jane Perkins reported the
Mancos Society. Bore a strong testimony to
the work of God. Counselor Annie Baily
reported the Monticello Society.
	The general and local officers were
presented and sustained.
	Stake Coun. Martha Hammond related her
visit to the Conference in Salt Lake City, also
the good instruction given there. Gave some
excellent advice, to all, but in particular to
mothers.
	Stake Coun. Josephine C. Wood made a
few pointed and exhortive remarks, spoke of
the responsibility of mothers in raising their
children. Sisters Mary Burnham, Eliza Redd,
and Harriet Ann Barton spoke in substance
as follows.—God has given women an im-
portant mission upon the earth. By trusting
in God and obeying his servants we will be
enabled to gain the good we have set out for.
All felt proud of being members of the Relief
Society.
	We have a large field to labor in. Sister
Agnes Allan and Mary B. Adams bore
testimony and exhorted the sisters to
obey counsel.
	Sister Elsie Nielsen felt to respond and to
keep up with the times.
	Pres. F. A. Hammond thought we had a
very enjoyable time, and had recieved the
best of counsel. Spoke at some length upon
the great mission of woman, and the importance
of the Relief Society.
	Stake Pres. Jane Walton made closing re-
marks. Gave the officers a special invitation
to attend the reception at Olio in July.
Adjourned the conference to meet at Monticello
in Aug.
	Singing “Oh how my spirit rests etc.”
Benediction by Coun. Wm. Holts.
