TRIP THROUGH ONEIDA STAKE.

	On June 8th a party left Preston to make
a trip through the Oneida Stake in the in-
terests of the Relief Society, Young Ladies
and Primary Associations.
	The party consisted of Sister E. S. Taylor,
Gen. Pres. of the Y. L. M. I. A., Sister Louie
Felt Gen. Pres. and Miss May Anderson Cor.
Sec'y. for the Primaries, all of Salt Lake City,
Sister Elizabeth Fox Stake Pres. and Sister
Edith Hawkes and M. J. Hendricks Coun-
selors for the Relief Society. Sister Esther
Hendrickson Stake Pres. and Sister Susie
Parnell Stake Sec'y. for the Young Ladies,
Sister J. J. Eldredge Stake Pres, and Sisters
Rosenbaum and Mickleson for the Primaries.
	There were twelve wards visited, and 28
meetings held in eleven days. The Relief
Society and Young Ladies' Associations held
their meetings conjointly in many of the wards
owing to the time being so limited. The saints
generally are feeling well and most of the
societies are in good working condition.
	Some new associations were formed and
some re-organized.
	In the Primary associations the good order
maintained by the children was especially
noticable.
	The trip was a very pleasant one, the saints
being very kind and hospitable and doing
everything to make it easy and comfortable
for the sisters.
	Visited the dairy of Brother Sharp who
presented the company with a nice cheese,
which was very much appreciated during some
of the long drives. Leaving Mormon Ward
June 11th drove to Soda Springs where Bis-
hop Lau and wife very kindly entertained
the company. The next day was spent in
visiting eight of the different springs and hav-
ing a most enjoyable time. And in the even-
ing continued the journey to Chesterfield. In
Weston the Brass Band serenaded the com-


pany, and played at the opening and close of
the meetings held in that ward. The meetings
were brought to a close in Franklin on June
the 20th.
	The people were very much pleased to have
the sisters visit them, especially those from
Salt Lake City.
	In most of the wards the Bishopric and a
good representation of the Brethren attended
the meetings, and seemed very well pleased
with the instructions given by the sisters.
There is much credit due to Sister Eldredge,
who managed the whole affair in the most
efficient manner and made all arrangements
for stopping places.
		MAY ANDERSON, Cor. Sec'y.


