WASATCH REUNION.

	A reunion to the members of the Wasatch
Literary Association was given on the evening of
the 18th of June at the residence of Mr. and Mrs.
F. D. Kimball. The entertainment was exceed-
ingly pleasant, and a perfect success socially, and
as a reminiscence of the past, when this Society
was in its glory and the young men and maidens
in the bloom of early life full of enthusiasm and
gaiety enjoying to the utmost the meetings, and
social entertainments that grew out of the organi-
zation.
	Many friendships were formed there that will
last forever and marriages consummated between
those that were thus associated in those halcyon
days of youthful enjoyments.
	The idea of a reunion had been talked of for
some time and finally resulted in an agreeable
social interview of old friends. The matter was
taken in hand by a few of the prominent members
of the early time, who formed committees, held
informal meetings, and prepared everything for
the delectation of the guests.
	On the evening of the entertainment the
grounds were handsomely illuminated and tables
spread on the lawn in readiness for the feast.
	The old members arriving in groups or a soli-
tary one from a distance, each warmly welcomed
by the host and hostess and a committee on re-
ception. A band on the lawn played charmingly
and everything betokened a joyous and festive
occasion.
	About nine o'clock the roll was called and the
old familiar names, (many of the ladies' names
sounding rather odd as they had since been 
changed).
	First on the programme of exercises "Remi-
niscences of the Wasatch" by O. F. Whitney—
followed by a piano solo "Gottschalk," Lena
Fobes, Reading "The Water Mill," Kittie Hey-
wood, Reading "Bill Nye," H. M. Wells, Violin
solo, Stan Clawson, accompanied by D. C. Young.
Sketch, H. G. Whitney, Anecdotes, B. S. Young,
Vocal duet Cornelia and Mattie Horne, Reading
of the "Budget Box" H. M. Wells, Critic, H. L.
A. Culmer.
	The Budget Box in former days was the source
of a great deal of fun, though sometimes very bit-
ter personals and satires caused a black cloud
occasionally to rest on the brow of a member,
who was thus severely handled. On this occa-
sion things in the distance seemed very funny,
and though some members were rather roughly
dealt with figuratively speaking, yet the thought
that it was of the dim and distant past made a
vast deal of difference. The critic gave a kindly
review rather than criticism, which with the remi-
niscence and sketch made quite a history of the
Wasatch of other days.
	The exersises over, the band on the lawn

[Column 2]

struck up lively strains of music cheering to the
soul; social conversations and friendly greetings
followed and each one had some remembrance
"of the good old days," until the call to supper on
the lawn for which ample provision had been
made, tables beautifully ornamented with flowers
and fruits, and each member of the Association
received a small hand-painted placque in flowers
tied with soft narrow ribbon, and containing
a written motto. After the supper was over
Bishop Whitney in behalf of the Association made
a presentation of an exquisite basket of flowers,
to Miss Kate Wells who had painted the charm-
ing little placques that were distributed to all the
members. Returning to the house after the sup-
per and presentation the band played "Auld lang
syne," the young people singing snatches of the
dear old song. The company enjoyed themselves
until "the wee sma hours" and dispersed with
happy hearts and many tender memories
awakened of the reminders of the days gone by.
Three at least of the prominent members had
passed away to that better land, and that of
course called up sad but sweet thoughts of the
dear departed ones who were wont to mingle their
voices in song and mirth, and jest.
	One thing we had almost forgotten to mention
in this notice of the pleasant reunion on Hey-
wood's Hill, at the old homestead, and that is that
telegrams and letters were read from some of the
members living at a distance, these were very
characteristic. We give below the programme of
the first gathering out of which grew this once
very popular Wasatch.

	Minutes of the first meeting of the Literary Asso-
ciation known as the——at the residence of Mrs.
E. B. Wells, State road January 21st 1874.
	Society met and organized, O. F. Whitney was
elected Chairman by a majority vote. Major W.
W. Woods became Chairman of the executive
committee by ballot, but resigned in favor of Miss
Mamie Jones who accepted. Misses Belle Clay-
ton and Cornelia Horne were elected assistants
by a majority.
	Miss Emma Wells was elected Secretary.
	It was moved and seconded that officers should
be elected each month by ballot—carried.
	The duties of officers were then debated upon
and settled.
	Moved that candidates for membership be ad-
mitted by ballot and rejected by three blank
votes.
	Moved that a critic be appointed each evening,
—carried.
	Enrollment of members present P. Margetts,
H. B. Emery, James Ferguson, Misses Kate and
May Wells and Rose Sipple became members.
	Moved that visitors be admitted at the next
meeting. Carried.
	Committee reported programme for next meet-
ing January 28th which was accepted.
	Executive Committee was enjoined to report
several names for the Society the next evening
session.
	Miss Mell Whitney by request read Mrs. Caudle's
lecture on "Spring Clothing," and was followed
by Major Woods who read "The one hoss shay," a
vote of thanks was tendered.
	By motion the meeting adjourned until January
28th, at the residence of H. K. Whitney 18th
Ward at the hour of 7:30 p. m.
