NOTES AND NEWS.
	Mme. Leon Bertaux, the sculptor, has peti-
tioned the French Government to open a
School of Fine Arts for Women.
	Baroness Gripenberg, of Finland, has
witten a book entitled “A half Year in the
New World.” It is said to be of great interest.
	Alexander Swift, of Cincinnati, who married
a sister of Alice and Phoebe Cary, owns the
old Cary homestead, and is anxious to make it
a memorial of the sister poets.
	Mrs. Tirard, the archaeologist, delivered a
course of lectures lately on “The Tombs and
Temples of Ancient Egypt,” at the British
Museum.
	Mrs. Khasma, a Jewess of Bagdad, manages
a factory which employs five hundred Jewish
women and girls. They make calico em-
broideries on covers, curtains, etc.
	The House of Lords has rejected the bill to
enable women to serve on County Councils.
To the American mind, this is a new proof
that the House of Lords ought to be abolished.
	Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe passed her
seventy-eight birthday very quietly Saturday
June 14. She received a few calls from per-
sonal friends, and from her publishers, Messrs.
Houghton, Mifflin & Co., a box of cut flowers.
	“Mary Anderson was married in June to
Mr. Antonio Navarro at the little Catholic
Church in Hempstead, of which she was a
regular communicant while living in London.
Only a few personal friends witnessed the cere-
mony, and her half-sisters, Blanche and Juliet,
acted as bridesmaids. There will be some
social gain—a longer life, perhaps a happier
one, for Mary Anderson; but what a loss to
the stage! Her splendid genius, her exquisite
beauty, her high ideals, her absolute truth, her
wonderful voice—when and where will these
rare gifts be again found embodied in one
young girl! This wedding, and welcome to
Mrs. Navarro, is the death of Juliet and
Perdita, of Galatea and the Daughter of
Roland, and it shuts out forever the dream of
a future for Antigone and the classic drama.”
	The woman question has been brought be
fore the French Chamber of Deputies by M.
de Gaste, Deputy for Finisterre. M. de Gaste
is a hale old Breton of eighty-two years, who
has been an advocate of equal rights for more
than forty years, and has taken up many un-
popular causes. Most of them have succeeded
and he believes that the woman question will
be victorious in France, though not so soon as
in the United States and Great Britain. M.
de Gaste proposes a revision of the constitu-
tion as follows:
	'That the Senate be reduced from 300 to 200, and the
Chamber to 400; that the seats in both be equally given to
men and women over forty; that as in the United States,
no member of the Senate can fill any salaried public office;
that the President of the Republic be elected for five years
by delegates of all electors, and be replaced if he die, retire
or go mad within his term of office, by a Vice-President;
and that, finally, women be eligible for the Presidency or
Vice-Presidency."
									Ex.


