EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Presidency of the Relief Society of
Sanpete Stake, Mrs. M. A. Hyde, and Coun-
selors, Mrs. Elizabeth Allred and Mrs. Sarah
A. Petersen, together with Miss Stena Wil-
lardson, Pres. Y. L. M. I. A. of the Stake ac-
companied by Mrs. M. I. Horne of Salt Lake
City, Mrs. Ellen Jakeman of Manti, Mrs. Ellen
Dorius of Ephraim and others took a trip
through the north end of this county on the
14, 15 and 16 of June. The report if given
in full might prove too lengthy, so I append
but a brief sketch. We left Ephraim on Fri-
day evening and drove as far as Mt. Pleasant,
just happening to be present at the grand re-
ception tendered Ferdinand Erickson, a young
man just returned from Ann Arbor, a young
disciple of the law. We drove to Fairview the
next morning where Relief Society and Young
Ladies' conference was held the same day.
The attendance was good, the instructions ex-
cellent, and the utmost harmony prevailed.
	Sister Hyde spoke in tongues in the after-
noon at the Youngs Ladies' meeting, which be-
ing interpreted was an exhortation of great
fervency, and a prophecy of their future
achievements.
	The next day, June 15th,the party aug-
mented by Bishop Petersen of Fairview, and
others took their way to Indianola. Every
where from Manti to that place the crops
looked beautiful.
	Meeting was held at 10 o'clock of the same
day, and a reorganization of the Relief Society
made. The following are the names of the
officers: Charlotte Seeley, Pres. Elvira Seeley
First Counselor; S. G. Tanner, Second Coun-
selor; and Mary Seeley Sec. and Treasurer.
	A Y. L. M. I. A. organization was also
made with the following officers: Sarah
Spencer, Pres. Retta Lauretta Spencer First,
and Lillian Hjust Second Counselor.
	After dinner they began the return trip
holding meeting at 4 o'clock at Millburn, a
small newly organized settlement at the right
of the usual road. There are twenty-five
families and the town has every appearance of
prosperity. Here one new organization was
made. The Relief Society officers as follows:
Mary Christina Grayban, Pres. Terressa
Stewart First and Margaret Harker Second
Counselors; Mellicent Cox, Sec., and Elvira
Stewart Treasurer. There were so few mem-
bers that it was not deemed wise or expedient
to make a separate organization for the Young
Ladies, at present; they were accordingly in-
vited to join the Relief Society.
	The ladies then drove over to Fairview,
where they spent the night; going to Mt. Pleas-
ant the next morning in time for a ten o'clock
meeting. The two wards heretofore existing
having been consolidated into one ward, it be-
came necessary to reorganize the Relief Society
and Young Ladies' to correspond. These are
the names of the officers retained in the Relief
Society: M. F. C. Morrisson Pres. Caroline

[Column 2]

Simpson First, and Botilda Neilsen Second
Counselors; Louisa Hasler, Sec, and Tiny
Erickson as Assistant Sec., and Christina Peel
Treasurer.
	The following are the names of the officers
selected to preside over the Y. L. M. I. A.
at Mt. Pleasant.
	Augusta Erickson, Pres. Ellenor Reynolds,
First, and Celia Johansen Second. Couselors;
Caroline Lonegren Sec., and Anna Madson,
Treasurer. This completed the reorganizations.
In every case the former members were rein-
stated in their membership, and the officers
were set apart for their respective callings.
	Meeting was held the next day at Spying
City, which completed the labors of the visitors
who returned home on the evening of the same
day.
	I should personally have been glad to tran-
scribe the good instruction given in the meet-
ings for your readers; and told them of the
beautiful scenery, the cordial welcome extended
everywhere, and the respect aud courtesy
shown us by all; the numbers of beautiful
girls and angelic children that we saw,—the
highly appreciated conversation  of Sister
Horne and others on our long drives, but it
would swell this article to a volume; so will
close by saying that we traveled 70 miles, held
seven meetings, and effected five organizations
in three days.
		M. A. HYDE, Pres.
		E. J. Sec. pro tem,


