UTAH STAKE.
	Minutes of the Quarterly Conference of the
Relief Society of Utah Stake held in Provo
City, May 30th 1890. Sister Mary John
presiding with her Counselor Marilla Daniels.
	Conference opened with singing and prayer
minutes of former conference read and approved.
Pres. John thought the sisters showed their
faithfulness by attending conference, our
minutes are good, have heard that Sister
Johnson is sick, hope the sisters will remember
her in their prayers etc.
	The different wards were represented by
those presiding over them. Those that at-
tended meetings regularly were full of
faith and zeal, striving to do all the good
that lay in their power, and were looking
forward for a brighter day for the Latter-day
Saints.
	Sister Caroline Daniels was honorably re-
leased from her labors as President of the
Relief Society of Timpanogas Ward, on account
of having moved from the ward.
	Br. Graves spoke on the silk industry,
hoped the sisters would not give up raising
cocoons. Considered he had a mission to pre-
form in trying to keep the silk-culture from
dying out, it was a mission given him by Pres.
Young and he felt like persevering although he
was 83 years old. He gave considerable advice
in regard to what was needed in the way of
machinery, to make it a success etc.
	Sister Lucy B. Young, felt that our time
was precious, was rejoiced to meet with us;
spoke of the work in the Temples and what a
great blessing and privilege it was that we
were permitted to go there and work for our

[Column 2]
dead. Let us live so that we will be ready to
meet our Saviour let us do right;do we keep the
word of wisdom,it is just as easy to ask the Lord
to give us strength to overcome the use of tea
and coffee as to ask him to bless it when it is
on the table: the day is coming when Satan
will strive to weaken our bodies as our faith,
let us keep faith enough to banish the
evil spirits. Let us have charity for
those that have gone astray, be humble and
prayerful, pray for our enemies. The earth
is the Lord’s and the fulness thereof.
	Afternoon session; convened at 2 p. m.
opened with singing and prayer. Sister M.
Daniels thought if we followed the example of
our Saviour we would be doing right; let us
be like little children humble in spirit and
action, spoke of the responsibilities resting
upon us in this day and age of the world.
We should cultivate charity and not disunion.
Let us not forget our prayers but so live that
we may meet in the Kingdom of our God.
	There was a great deal of good instruction
given on various subjects, and a great many
testimonies borne in regard to the truth of
this gospel and the healing of the sick through
the administration of the Elders and the prayer
of faith. The spirit of the Lord was with us
and we had a joyful time. Pres. John added
her testimony to those already borne, felt that
we had been blessed in this conference, spoke
a few words in regard to the silk industry etc.
Conference was adjourned for three months.
	Benediction by Sister Eggerston.
					Caroline Daniels, Sec.


