The Red Cross Conference in Denver. 
Amy Brown Lyman.

An executive Conference of the Mountain division of the American Red Cross was held in Denver, October 24, 25, and 26. The Mountain division includes Utah, Wyoming, Colorado and New Mexico. Counselor Clarissa S. Williams and Mrs. Amy B. Lyman were invited by the Salt Lake Chapter of the Red Cross to attend as delegates. Both Mrs. Williams and Mrs. Lyman are members of the Civilian Relief Committee of the Salt Lake Chapter.

A public meeting was held on Wednesday evening, October 24. On Thursday morning a general session was held for delegates. Thursday afternoon and Friday were devoted to section meetings. At the Wednesday evening meeting, with five thousand people in attendance, the speakers were: Mr. Henry B. Davison, chairman of the Red Cross War Council of America; Mr. Harvey D. Gibson, general manager of the Red Cross, and the Rev. Mr. Davis, member of the Red Cross Commission, recently returned from the front in France. These men made a patriotic call for the assistance of the whole American people in carrying on the great work of the Red Cross, emphasizing the point that the American Red Cross will help to shorten the war no less than will American arms.

Miss Gertrude Vaile, chairman of the Bureau of the Civilian Relief, held two important sessions. She outlined in detail the work to be taken up throughout the division along the lines of home service for the families of soldiers and sailors. It was explained that nearly three quarters of a million of men are now enlisted in the various branches of the army and navy and that the number is increasing daily. In spite of the fact that great care is being taken to select for national service, men without dependents, and in spite of the fact that the Government is planning to grant separation allowances and to secure the assignment of pay, there will be many homes where additional assistance will be necessary, and it is the plan of the Red Cross to give this assistance through the department of Civilian Relief, in the form of home service.

The work of civilian relief is not to be considered as charity, but as legitimate aid to those families who have given their husbands and sons to insure the safety, security and honor of the country, and in return are entitled to special consideration by the Government through the Red Cross. During war time, every family is beset with difficulties of various sorts, due to the high cost of living, industrial changes, etc., and it is only natural that these difficulties are greatly increased where the head of the family has given his full service to the nation. The national Government has assumed the responsibility of making financial provision for the families of enlisted men by arranging for separation allowances to be given to the families of the men who assign part of their pay to their dependents. During the interim in which arrangements are being made by the Red Cross and the Government for the permanent care of the families of enlisted men, the Red Cross will, through the Civilian Relief department, give reasonable temporary assistance to those who are in need, and will help families to maintain their standards of health, education and industry by tiding over temporary difficulties. In the administration of home service work Miss Vaile recommended that all applicants for Red Cross home service or relief be referred to the Red Cross Civilian Committee; that this committee make preliminary inquiry, register the cases and then turn them over to the relief organizations of the church with which the applicants are affiliated, for complete investigation.

Reports with such records as the Red Cross ordinarily requires for its home service work will then be made by the church societies to the Civilian Relief Committee, and the committee itself with these recommendations in mind, will decide upon the assistance to be given and the plan to be made for the family. Latter-day Saint families of soldiers and sailors who apply to the Red Cross for assistance will thus be turned over to the Relief Society of the "Mormon" Church for investigation; Catholic families will be assigned to Catholic visitors, and Jewish families to Jewish visitors. In all instances wherever possible a family will be assigned visitors of its own religious faith, the policy of relief and treatment of each family, however, to be decided upon by the Civilian Relief Committee. Those applicants not affiliated with any religious sect will be investigated and looked after by the Civilian Relief Committee itself. By assigned pay of the soldier is meant the pay the soldier makes to his family out of his Government allowance. The separation allowance by the Government is a stipulated amount that the Government will pay to the family of the enlisted man. The separate allowance to be made by the Government is very generous and this in addition to the assigned pay of the enlisted man will be ample provision for his family, if it is wisely handled. The enlisted man is compelled to allot his family not more than half of his pay (the pay of an army private in service abroad is $33.00), not less than $15.00. The man may choose to assign more than this, on the one hand, and on the other hand the wife may waive this compulsory allotment by producing evidence of her desire and ability to support herself and children. The monthly allowance to be paid by the Government to the immediate family of the enlisted man is: 

Wife without children $15.00 
Wife and one child 25.00 
Wife and two children 32.50 
For each additional child 5.00 
No wife, but one child 5.00 
No wife, but two children 12.50 
No wife, but three children 20.00 
No wife, but four children 30.00 
For each additional child 5.00 

The schedule of monthly allowances to be paid by the Government to other persons specified by the enlisted man, provided these persons are wholly or partly dependent upon him, and provided he assigns to them a portion of his own pay, is as follows: 

One parent $10.00 
Two parents 20.00 
Each grandchild, brother or sister 5.00 

The maximum allowance to the dependents of any one enlisted man is $50.00 a month. In order to administer the work in home service efficiently and in order to keep the required records properly, according to the plans outlined by the Civilian Relief Bureau and accepted by the Government, the Red Cross will arrange for a series of institutes, short resident courses and extension courses to be given during the winter. The first institute will be held at division headquarters at Denver, under the immediate supervision of Miss Vaile. Later, short courses, extension classes, and lectures will be given in the various cities of the division. In the meantime, the work will be done as efficiently as possible by the Civilian Relief Committees of the chapters, assisted by the various relief organizations, according to the plans already outlined. The military relief work of the Red Cross which is already very well established will continue in the good work of making surgical supplies and hospital garments for the wounded, and knitted comforts and other necessary articles for the men in action. With all these worthy and necessary plans and preparations in view, it will not be necessary to urge the women of the Relief Society to give their assistance in this good cause and to prepare themselves in every instance to do the work which they will be called upon to do. 

A Utah Girl in France. 

Every girl will thrill with fear, yet admiration at the courageous enterprise of the charming and brilliant daughter of our General Board member, Mrs. A. W. McCune. Miss Betty McCune, fired with patriotic fervor determined at the outbreak of the war to dedicate her services to France as an ambulance driver. Accordingly she offered herself and her fine new automobile to the New York authorities last spring and her name was placed upon the applicants' role for service. A few other leading young, patriotic women of New York have also made this offer, and one or two have gone to France already. She came home during the summer months and put herself under a severe course of training in automobile driving. Miss McCune set sail for France Monday, November 5, sailing on the Rochambeau.

A number of interesting details surround this young lady's preparations: First, the snapshot picture of her which accompanies this article was taken by the New York authorities, and one is pasted on each of her pieces of baggage. She must land in France dressed exactly as she is in this picture. This is her means of identification added to her passport and letters of credit and other forms of written identification. France, and especially Paris, is without coal except for cooking purposes, so that these daring young American maidens must be clothed so warmly that the chill blasts of winter which sweep through the streets and penetrate the houses of Paris, shall be unable to enter the specially prepared clothing of the girls. A very soft leather suit of trousers and coat with high boots to the knees is the outer garb. Under this the waist with long sleeves and high neck covers heavy woolen underwear. The driving coat is rubber waterproof on the outside with leather on the inside. Beside this a soft woolen inner coat is worn for driving. The long woolen stockings worn by Miss Betty were knitted by the loving fingers of her own mother. She took three pairs of these, with a woolen knit helmet fashioned by the same tender hands, to wear under her other caps. Perhaps the most unique part of her furnishings is a life preserver, made of heavy waterproof rubber. This suit fits from neck to ankle and is in one piece. It is padded inside with specially prepared cork material so it will not sink. Over this are gloves and boots, all equally well fortified. The girl gets inside of the suit, snaps it at the neck, pulls on a headpiece over that and looking like a huge brownie she finds herself within a mammoth thermos bottle, which preserves the heat of the body for twenty-four hours no matter how freezing cold the water is. Sinking is impossible, so it is said, with one of these wonderful new devices for protection on the seas. Miss Betty and her mother attended the services in Brooklyn the Sunday before she left and received the loving congratulations and blessings of President Walter P. Monson and his associates. Can our mothers at home realize the anxious love and prayers of this mother who watched her daughter sail out of New York harbor, but who may not know when the boat finally sails out into the dangerous deep. The captain himself will not know when they can sail beyond until he feels himself free from submarines. No wireless messages are permitted, and he may cruise around for weeks before he finds it safe to make his crossing. Many mothers feel the aching loss of sons who have gone into the conflict, but how must a mother feel whose tender-limbed and delicately reared daughter undertakes this dangerous work? Our blessings and faith go with this brave and lovely Utah girl, and we shall watch for her return with faith and perfect confidence.

It has been decided by the General Board, and approved by the First Presidency that Mrs. Amy Brown Lyman attend the Home Service Institute, given under the direction of the Bureau of the Civilian Relief of the Mountain States Division of the Red Cross, in Denver, beginning November 5th and ending December 15th. Mrs. Lyman will be accompanied by three young Relief Society women from Logan, Provo and Ogden, who will also take the course.