December Entertainment 
By Morag.

Winter has many pleasures. Sometimes we think they outnumber those of any of the other seasons of the year. Thanksgiving day ushers in the time of gaiety and pleasure and it is hardly over before we begin to plan for the holidays of the year—Christmas and New Year. There are two days on which we should gather together in our family circles and in public assemblies to celebrate with songs of joy and gratitude. On Christmas day we join with all the civilized world to commemorate the birth of the Savior of the world—God's greatest gift to man. Because of this gift, and because to his lowly cradle in the manger, the wise men came bringing their gifts of gold, frankincense and myrrh, the custom has grown amongst us, to remember our friends and loved ones with Christmas gifts and greetings, for only by giving gifts can the true meaning of the great gift of peace and good will be impressed. The 23rd of December should be celebrated by the Latter-day Saints in memory of another precious gift from our Father in heaven: the Prophet of the nineteenth century, Joseph Smith. The Prophet's birthday falls on the Sunday before Christmas this year and doubtless will be honored throughout the Church with special services and programs. For your Home Evening this month, have a Joseph Smith program, sing the appropriate hymns (there are many of them), let the smaller children tell the story of the birth of Joseph. The first vision. The older members may speak of him as a prophet, as a teacher, and of the bringing forth of the Book of Mormon, and of the martyrdom. All may bear testimony and sing of his wonderful life and achievements.

(For Christmas Service.)

Hymn, "Far, Far Away, on Judea's Plains." 
Bass solo, "Nazareth." 
Hymn, "When Christ was Born in Bethlehem." 
Hymn, "Behold the Lamb of God." 
Song, "Galilee." 
Song, "Master, the Tempest is Raging." 
Solo, "There were Ninety and Nine." 
Hymn, "I Think When I Read that Sweet Story of Old." 
Solo, "The Lord is My Light." 
Hymn, "'Tis Midnight and on Olive's Brow." 
(Gospel hymns.) 
Solo, "The Holy City," or "Calvary." 
Hymn, "He Died, the Great Redeemer Died." 
Hymn, "Easter Morning." 
Hymn, "I Know that My Redeemer Lives."

This may be held a few days before Christmas or on Christmas Eve. Send invitations written on Christmas postals. Arrange a corner of the room as a post office, presided over by someone costumed as Santa Claus. After a good lively game or two, or some music, pass around plain cards and pencils and see who can write the prettiest verse or sentiment for a Christmas card.

These may be addressed and given over to the postman for delivery. Award a Christmas calendar as a prize. All who attend the party can be notified in advance that pencils or cards will be delivered to whomsoever they are addressed. The hostess will, of course, prepare some of her own. After singing a Christmas carol or two pass around paper and write a round robin letter to the absent ones—a missionary, or it may be a boy in the training camp, or the trenches. Let everyone write something—even the babies can make their mark. If a flashlight picture can be taken, enclose one and be sure and mail the letter at once. The letters, gifts and postals may now be delivered to the guests by Santa, or if a change is preferred, let one of the girls be costumed as the spirit of Christmas, all in red and green with holly berry wreath and wand. Serve raspberry or red currant punch, dainty sandwiches, individual mince pies, red and green apples, nuts and Christmas candies.

GIFT SUGGESTIONS. For the absent ones a dainty booklet in a serviceable cover, containing snapshots of the home places, the various members of the family and even of the family pets. One sister made a snapshot of the homes of her various brothers and sisters, mounted them on cards, tied these together with Christmas ribbon, added a greeting and Christmas sticker on the outside card, and lo, a dozen or more hearts were made glad by her thoughtful effort. The cost was trifling, but the originality of the gift and the personal touch made the small remembrance valuable. Christmas photos are always appreciated, also subscriptions to good magazines. Why not make this a magazine Christmas. Father and brother will surely like to receive the Improvement Era as their favorite monthly. Mother and grandma both need their subscriptions renewed, while big sister and little one, too, must have their Journal and Children's Friend, and, of course, the whole family read the Juvenile. Those who solve their Christmas problem in this way will live in the hearts of their loved ones, not through Christmas alone, but throughout the year. Now a blessed and happy Christmas to one and all.

CHRISTMAS MONEY. A novel way to send a money gift at Christmas is to choose a Christmas postal or card with a funny man's figure on it. Make a slit under his arm and insert a folded greenback. Underneath or on the reverse side write the following jingle: "I introduce my friend Bill Green As fine a chap as you've e'er seen. If you need an apron, or jabot new, Or warmer gloves when hands are blue, Just tell your need to jolly Bill; He's full of cheer and right goodwill, Whate'er you need without a doubt He'll find a way to help you out." Or: Paste a dime in four corners of a postcard, cover each with Christmas stickers. Enclose in envelope with following message: Here are some dimes, to use sometimes When you'd like a treat, of candy sweet, Or you want to go to a picture show.