Current Topics. By James H. Anderson. American troops in France began actual fighting with the Germans on October 25. Russia is facing German invasion threatening Petrograd, and anarchy threatening the whole country. Killed, 4,000; injured, 10,000, was the result of a powder magazine explosion at Steifel, Austria, in October. Congress closed in October with proportionately the largest list of appropriations known in the history of the United States. Baseball interest in the United States for 1917 culminated in October, when the Chicago club defeated the New York club in the world series. Holland bids fair to be German prey, now that the British advances in Belgium threaten the U-submarine bases at Ostend and Zeebrugge. Sugar shortage in the United States means a shortage all over the world, where the supply for 1918 is not more than half that available in 1917. Brazil has declared war against Germany. This leaves only three nations with the American nations that have not broken relations. At Marysvale, Utah, the largest potash plant in the world was destroyed by fire in October, thus materially interfering with the production of potash for fertilizer.

Ireland is giving more trouble to Great Britain in this war, and another scheme for supplying the Irish rebels with arms from Germany has been uncovered. Utah now is highly regarded in the Eastern States, is the record from those who know the facts. Quite a transition from conditions of twenty years ago. "Mormon" Church services have been arranged for at Camp Lewis, 181st brigade Washington, where there are over 2,000 "Mormons" gathered there. Germany is by no means beaten as yet in the war, as shown by her offensive campaigns in Russia and toward Italy, many American newspaper stories to the contrary notwithstanding. Dr. George Michaelis, the recently appointed German chancellor, has had to resign. The Socialists in the German reichstag were unanimous in demanding that he step down and out. Several air raids were made over England in October by German airplanes and Zeppelins, killing nearly 100 people. Six of the Zeppelins were shot down in France, on their return trip. In northern Syria the rate of deaths from starvation during October is said to have exceeded 1,000 per day; yet that part of Syria is one of the most productive food sections of Asiatic Turkey. British and French troops on the western battle line in Europe inflicted several severe defeats on the Germans during October, thus showing the superiority of the former in that war section. Submarine warfare in October continued to exact a heavy toll in sunken ships, but the losses in German submarines increased more rapidly than did the number of merchant vessels destroyed. Young girls have been forbidden to be present at Fort Douglas, Salt Lake City, after 7 p. m. on any day. The military order was timely, and welcome to those interested in the welfare of the young people. I. W. W. ACTIVITIES in the United States diminished greatly during October, owing to the government's stern attitude toward the leaders of the organization, many of whom were indicted for violations of law. The "Mormon" Church is the first general church organization to subscribe for government bonds in aid of the United States government. The amount voted by the Church Conference in October was $250,000.

The second loan asked for by the government in 1917 reached nearly the $5,000,000,000 aimed at, there being over 8,000,000 subscribers, the intermountain States doing their full share. The next loan will be called for about February, 1918. Drafted men to the number of 198 were sent back to Utah from the army training camps, because some of the district boards, notably in Salt Lake City, had not been sufficiently careful, thereby putting the government to considerable unnecessary expense. Lord North Cliffe, of the British war mission in the United States, says the end of the war is at least three years off, while General Leonard Wood of the United States general staff says ten years. At any rate, there is no prospect of an early peace. The fighting armies of the world now at war reached the enormous total of 38,000,000 men in October, the Teutonic allies having 10,600,000, and the Entente allies 27,500,000. Practically all of the former and half of the latter are on the fighting line. Woman suffrage picketing at the White House, Washington, seems to have had some influence in its persistency. President Wilson has announced himself as favoring the submission of the equal suffrage question to the voters in all the states where there is only male suffrage. Austrian troops were driven back by the Italians early in October, but in the latter part of that month the Austrians, reinforced by several hundred thousand Germans, took the offensive and inflicted on the Italians the greatest defeat that the war in Europe has registered to date. Candy intoxication, or the abnormal appetite for candy which has developed in America, especially among the young people, during the past five years, is likely to receive some setback in the fact that the amount of sugar available for confections in 1918 will be less than half that for 1917, thus working a sort of partial prohibition. Palestine news for October is not voluminous, but is significant. The British railway being built from Egypt, and to run entirely through Palestine into northern Syria, has been constructed across the desert to Hebron. Thus the Turk no more will menace the British line on the Mediterranean front, for soon Palestine will be the Egyptian front, if, indeed, that end has not been attained already.