Guide Lessons. 

LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in January. 

Historians and Custodians of the Book of Mormon. 

The story told in the Book of Mormon is the story of a Semite colony who came from the Tower of Babel and settled in North America, but who perished after centuries of expansion and prosperity, because of their sin and corruption. Also it is the story of a colony of Hebrews who left Jerusalem in the time of Zedekiah, crossed the sea in ships of their own building and landed in South America, finally peopling both continents again. The disobedient portion of this people at last conquered, and remained a dark-skinned race to be discovered by Columbus. These people kept records engraved upon plates of ore and plates of gold, and it is of these plates we shall speak in this lesson. 

The Records or Plates. 

The records made by the colonies of people who settled up North America were engraved upon brass and golden plates. This was for a wise purpose divinely ordained. Most other substances would have decayed, corroded and gone into complete annihilation, but gold being one of the most enduring substances known, was selected by the historians of the ancient Americans. The Chinese anciently engraved their records, first upon bamboo slips, or wood, with a special knife, then bones were used, next bronze and stone were used by these ancient students and historians. 

The Jaredite Plates. 

When the first colony came out from the Tower of Babel and into the Promised Land, they were led by one Jared and his brother. These people kept very little in the way of records, yet there were twenty and four plates with engravings on them, discovered later by the Nephites, which gave an account of the Jaredites and which were translated and called the Book of Ether. (Omni, verses 20; Mosiah, ch. 8.) In addition to these twenty-four Jaredite plates spoken of in the Book of Mormon are a set of brass plates which are called the Plates of Laban; then there are the two sets of plates prepared by Nephi, the large and the small plates; there is Mormon's abridgment on a set of small golden plates, with the twenty-four Jaredite plates, and Moroni's additional book. 

Plates of Nephi.

Soon after the arrival of Lehi and his little colony on the promised land, Nephi received a commandment from the Lord to make certain "plates of ore" upon which to engrave a record of the doings of his people, and on these for many generations the secular history of the people was recorded. Some time later, or between thirty and forty years after the departure of Lehi from Jerusalem, Nephi was told by the Lord to "make other plates; and thou shalt engraven many things upon them which are good in my sight for the profit of thy people." Nephi, accordingly made this second set of plates, and upon them were engraven the sacred records of the first few Nephite prophets. The two sets of plates manufactured by Nephi were both called the Plates of Nephi; but their contents were not identical. Upon the first set was engraven the political history of the Nephites, and these were continued from century to century; upon the second their religious growth and development for only four hundred years. The one described the acts of their kings, and the wars, contentions and destructions which came upon the nation from Lehi down to the days of Mormon; the other ran down only to Mosiah's time and contained the story of the dealings of the Lord with that people, the ministry of his servants, the teachings and prophecies of that comparatively short period. Of the contents of the first set of plates of Nephi with the secular history on we know only through Mormon's abridgment; but the second set of plates is given to us in full in the first five books with the few words of Mormon added. Mormon's Abridgment. When Mormon was ten years of age he was taken by Ammaron, the last Nephite historian, to the hill called Shim, and was there shown the sacred engravings hidden in a cave containing records of his people. He found there the brass plates of Laban which had been brought at so much sacrifice and suffering out from Jerusalem by Nephi, and which contained the genealogy of Lehi's fathers as well as the history of the Jewish people down to the time of Zedekiah, at which time Lehi with his family left Jerusalem (I Nephi 5:10-22), and which, no doubt, were very cumbersome compared with the small golden plates which Nephi used for the sacred history. There are many of these larger plates as the history of the wars and contentions of the people, their travels and settlements here and there were all given in these plates. From the account given us by the Prophet Joseph Smith these plates were numerous and might have been of varying sizes. Here also he found the four and twenty plates containing the brief record of the Jaredites. GUIDE LESSONS. After Mormon's final battle and his banishment he was inspired to make a record himself, a full account, so he tells us, of the wickedness and abominations which he himself beheld. Next and most important to us, he was inspired to prepare a small abridgment (Mormon 5:9) of these many records contained upon the plates of ore. This abridgment is contained in the books we know as: the Book of Mosiah, of Alma, of Helaman, of III Nephi, and of IV Nephi. He also made an abridgment of the records of Lehi and I Nephi which was the part first translated by the Prophet and was lost by Martin Harris. When Mormon was at work in the cave he says he ".searched among the records which had been delivered into my hands, and I found these plates, which contained this small account of the prophets, from Jacob, down to the reign of this king Benjamin; and also many of the words of Nephi. And the things which are upon these plates pleasing me, because of the prophecies of the coming of Christ. * ***** Wherefore, I chose these things to finish my record upon them, which remainder of my record I shall take from the plates of Nephi; and I cannot write the hundredth part of the things of my people. But behold, I shall take these plates, which contain these prophesyings and revelations, and put them with the remainder of my record, for they are choice unto me; and I know they will be choice unto my brethren. And I do this for a wise purpose; for thus it whispereth me, according to the workings of the Spirit of the Lord which is in me. And now, I do not know all things; but the Lord knoweth all things which are to come; wherefore, he worketh in me to 'do according to his will." . .

Thus we see that the first five books of the Book of Mormon, are the original writings of the authors; note how they spoke: "I, Nephi," "I, Jacob," "I, Jarom," etc. The next six books are the abridgment of Mormon. The last two books were prepared by Moroni. Historians. Following are the names of the Nephite historians: Nephi, from 600 to 546 B. C. Jacob, from 546 to 500. Enos, from 500 to 422. Jarom, from 422 to 362. Omni, from 362 to 318. Ammaron, from 318 to 280. Chemish, from 280 to 260. Abinadom, from 260 to 200. Amaleki, from 200 to 130 (about). King Benjamin, from 130 to 125. King Mosiah, from 125 to 91. 

Alma (the younger), from 91 to 73. Helaman (the elder), from 73 to 57. Shiblon, from 57 to 53. Helaman (the younger), from 53 to 39. Nephi, from 39 to 1. Nephi (the disciple), from 1 to 34 A. C. Nephi, from 34 to 110. Amos, from 110 to 194. Amos (the younger), from 194 to 306. Ammaron, from 306 to 320. Mormon, from 320 to 385. Moroni, from 385 to 421. 

Thus we have a wonderful record, prepared in a marvelous way. No charlatan would have invented so involved yet so clear and definite an explanation of the recording and preservation of these books. One of the best proofs of the Book of Mormon itself is the clear, lucid manner in which any problem is met in its pages and solved without contradiction or confusion. Many of our people think the Book of Mormon was written altogether by Mormon. This is only half of the truth, as this lesson indicates. 

QUESTIONS. How did the Chinese increase their early records? What were the plates of Laban? How were they obtained? How many sets of plates did Nephi prepare? What were Zarahemla's plates and what did they contain? What can you say of Mormon's abridgment? How many sets of plates were there? How many historians were there? What became of the first 116 pages translated by the Prophet Joseph Smith? 

History Preparation. Students are requested to read I Nephi and report readings at the next lesson for general discussion. 

NOTICE TO OUR STUDENTS. The General Board of the Relief Society have decided to present as this year's and next year's theology lessons the study of the Book of Mormon. The genealogical lessons which will continue as usual will take up the following: Racial history lessons: Gentile Semites, Descendants of Ham, Japheth, Racial Beginnings in Europe, Further Racial Divisions in Europe, and Race History in Great Britain. The Home Science lessons will treat on conservation of food, taking up as subjects: Plain Facts about Food, Spring Vegetables, Economy and Methods of Preparation; Cereals: rice, whole wheat flour, rye and corn bread, and bread-making; Products and by-products of the Dairy; Review of Canning and Drying lesson; Beans, peas, lentils and meat; Conservation of Clothing; Textiles and Fabrics, Choice and Care; Shoes and Hose; Conservation of Health of Children: Health the Best Gift; Conservation of Peace within; Christmas and the Prophet's Birthday. Because of the pressure upon our time and energies through war activities, added to the regular heavy responsibilities of our Relief Society work, the Board has decided to relieve the situation somewhat by discontinuing for this year, at least, the study of Literature. We hope the result will justify our action. Very few books need be purchased in the lesson work for the coming year. All our people have the sacred history of the Nephites, and we trust that all of our members have in the home, George Reynolds' Story of the Book of Mormon, as our lessons will follow his work in some detail. Lists of U. S. Bulletins suitable for the Home Science lessons will be given to be distributed from the Washington office of Senator Reed Smoot.

Our new surname book has grown to such proportions and so many difficulties have had to be overcome, that we are unable to present it to you for a little time longer. However, students will find help for this year's lessons in any good general history. Encyclopedias and geographies will serve as textbooks for the Racial History lessons. May the Lord add his blessing to all our earnest students, class teachers, officers, and members of the great Relief Society.

LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in January.

LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature. Third Week in January.

RACE HISTORY. Disobedient Races Descended from Shem.

Not all the descendants of Shem were obedient to his teachings and to the principles of the gospel. Many of them fell away from time to time and some became great nations. Therefore, in this lesson those ancient Semitic nations which might be called "gentile" nations in contradistinction to obedient Semites, afterwards called the Hebrews, we shall here consider. We must call the attention of the student to the fact that we will not be able in this racial history to carry along our studies in a general or world-history chronological order, for the nations which grew out of the three great racial divisions (Semites, Hamites, and Japhethites) conquered and were conquered by each other at various times, and very often under similar circumstances. However, we shall take each race down chronologically, in the various lessons, as they developed into nations, and leave the student to join together the historical events in review questions and by the aid of maps and a study of general ancient history.

Assyria. Up in the northern part of the Valley of the Tigris (2250 B.C. to 600 B.C.) were the Assyrians, descendants of Asshur son of Shem. Tiglath-Pileser I in 1130 B.C. conquered the southern provinces and visited the warring Assyrian tribes. Sardanapalus followed him, and then Tiglath-Pileser II conquered Babylon, Syria, and Judea. The Assyrians had founded the great city of Nineveh, which for a long time was simply a province of Babylonia; but in 728 B.C., Babylonia was conquered by an Assyrian and passed under Assyrian control. The Assyrians had local deities, each city having its own patron god. They believed in magic rites and incantations, in astrology, and they were great astronomers also. The fame of the Chaldean scholars and astrologers spread throughout the ancient world. They were the most cultured of the very ancient races. They possessed great learning in astronomy and mathematics and also patronized art and literature. The enormous mounds on the Babylonian plains have been excavated during the last 50 years with wonderful results. The Temple Library written on clay tablets, unearthed at Nippur has uncovered a new world for moderns. Sennacherib (705 B.C.) and Asshur-Bani-Pal in 668 B.C. were the greatest monarchs of Nineveh for six centuries. The Ninevite or Assyrian kings ruled the East from about 1100 B.C. on to 625 B.C. but in 606 B.C. Nineveh was taken and sacked by the Medes and Babylonians. Two hundred years later (400 B.C.) Xenophon with his 10,000 Greeks passed the desolate spot of crumbling ruins and did not even learn at that time the name of the great city of Nineveh.

The old Babylonian Empire, or Chaldea, was founded soon after the confusion of tongues, about 2200 B.C. This Chaldean empire declined and was incorporated in the Assyrian empire. Media and Chaldea or the old Babylonian kingdoms rebelled against the Assyrians and became an independent kingdom. Sargon II, who reigned 722 B.C., filled the whole earth with his glory. He claimed descent from the Semitic king Sargon I, king of Babylon. Babylon was again conquered by Cyrus the Persian in 538 B.C., riding into the fortified capital of Babylon and subduing it.

The Persian Empire. The Persians are descendants of Shem's son Elam. After the destruction of Nineveh, the Medes and Persians were amalgamated, rose rapidly and founded a world empire. Cyrus the Great, 558 to 529 B.C., built up the greatest empire of ancient times. Darius the First, 484 B.C., conquered northwestern India and then went over into Europe and undertook to conquer the Greeks who had just risen into greatness as a nation. Darius was defeated at the Battle of Marathon, 484 B.C., and died. His son Xerxes headed an immense army and attempted to cross the Hellespont and invade Greece. He too was defeated, and in 334 B.C., Alexander the Great crossed the Hellespont and conquered Asia.

Races in Babylon. It is puzzling to decide which race lesson

shall contain the history of such nations as Babylon and Egypt, for the city of Babylon was most probably built up by Nimrod, grandson of Ham, and the great Tower was erected under his direction. Yet later heavy invasions of Semite—they were the disobedient descendants of Shem—came into Babylonia and the first great king, Sargon, of whom history speaks, was called a Semitic king. Therefore, we shall include the brief history of Babylon in this chapter, reminding our students of the constant mixing and intermarriage of these ancient peoples. The Hebrews were the only ancient people who kept their racial strain at all free from surrounding nations. Ancient Babylonia, like the Nile valley, the long stretch of country watered by the Tigris-Euphrates, is dependent upon those waters for life and population. The first records of Babylon are set by scholars about 5,000 B.C. He was contemporary with Abraham and no doubt Mesopotamian lands were then filled with city-states like those later found in Greece and Italy. This chronology is not accepted by us, but we present it here because the books give it thus. Each city had its patron god and was ruled by a king. Again the mind turns to the records of Moses in the fifth chapter of Genesis where Cain himself built the first city and named it after his son Enoch. The first king named by these modern clay records is Sargon the First, who is called a Semitic king of Agade (3,700 B.C.). How a king could be called by historians a Semitic king when Shem was not born until 2,410 B.C. is something of a mystery. Sargon built up a powerful state in Babylonia and extended his ruling to the Mediterranean. He was a patron of letters and established mammoth libraries of clay tablets which are the oldest and most valuable libraries of the ancient world. Hammurabi. How insignificant a reminder of Ham is the name. Hammurabi was a famous ruler who reigned about 2000 B.C. He was contemporary with Abraham and no doubt received much of his inspiration from that great prince. He has been identified by some writers with Chedorlaomer who formed a confederacy with Abraham. Hammurabi promulgated a code of laws which in some respect is remarkably like the Mosaic code of the Hebrews. We affirm that his inspiration must have come from the Patriarch Abraham instead of Abraham receiving his from a pagan king to hand on down to his posterity. For 1500 years after Hammurabi, Babylon continued to be a great political and commercial empire. The Arabians. The country which lay in that portion of western Asia lying south and east of Judea, was settled up—if one could call it settled—by the Ishmaelites, descended through Abraham from Shem and by other tribes such as the people of Kedar, all of whom led a wandering life, having no cities or houses or fixed habitations, but living wholly in tents. These people are now called Bedouins. In Arabia, south, the Edomites, descendants of Esau, and the Amalekites and their branches of the house of Esau, dwelt in constant conflict. There are, according to native historians, two races of Arabs: those descended through Joktan through Eber, Salah, Arphaxad and Shem, and those who claim Ishmael as their ancestor. There were also in Arabia, descendants of Cush, son of Ham. Added to these tribes were some of the descendants of Lot through his two ill-begotten sons, Moab and Ammon. In ancient times the Arabs were idolators and star worshipers. A form of Christianity made some progress in the third century amongst these tribes. They are now, however, nominally Mohammedans, but their religion sits but lightly on them. Isolated from other nations, and with slight exceptions, free from all foreign control, their ancient customs and habits are still retained and their language is comparatively the same as it was in ancient times. Not until the year 622 A.D. was there very much history made by this people. Then came the great Arabian prophet Mohammed. His spectacular and magnificent history is familiar to students. He was 40 years old when he assumed the office of a prophet and teacher. He taught that both the Jewish and the Christian religions were of divine origin, yet that God had given to him "a clearer and more perfect revelation." Indeed, as he phrases it, "There is but one God and Mohammed is His prophet." He gave many revelations and prepared the Arabian Bible called the Koran. These revelations were diligently recorded by the prophet's disciples, on dried palm leaves and on the shoulder bones of mutton, and one of his wives kept the sacred chest in which they were preserved.

At his death they were collected and published or written by command of his successor, and thus we have the Koran. Mohammed's tenet was a belief in fate. His heaven was a very personal one filled with beautiful women and idle men. Says the Koran: "The sword is the key of heaven and of hell. A drop of blood shed in the cause of God, a night spent in arms, is of more avail than two months of fasting and prayer. Whoever falls in battle, his sins are forgiven." Mohammed died in 632 A. D. and his tomb is still an object of sacred pilgrimage. In 636 the Saracens, as the mixed Arab race was called, then defeated the Persian armies and Assyria also capitulated. In the seventh and eighth centuries the Saracens conquered Palestine, Egypt, Antioch, Alexandria, Carthage, and practically all of Asia. In 709 the Moors or Berbers, were also subdued. The Visi-goths were defeated and all of Spain, except small states in the Pyrenees, was controlled by the Mohammedans. They remained in Spain for several centuries. The Mohammedan empire extended, in the eighth century, from western India and the Turkish lands to the Atlantic south of the Mediterranean, including the Spanish peninsula in Europe, and through this immense region, the will of a single caliph was law for a brief period. At the close of this century the Turkish tribes, who are descendants of the Tartars and Mongols and are said to be of Hamitic origin, were pressing into the Arabian empire. The most illustrious Arabian caliph who reigned in Bagdad, was Haroun al Raschid of the Arabian Nights fame, who reigned from 781 A. D. to 805 A. D. He was a just monarch and was surnamed the Just. He was also a great warrior and sought alliance with Charlemagne, sending him many presents. The ninth century was a brilliant one for the Mohammedans, but in the tenth century the Turks, who had been hired by the Arabs as soldiers, proved stronger than the luxury-corrupted Arabians. In this century the Turks had conquered Persia and the Turks and Tartars soon conquered the Saracens and Arabs. In 1063 A. D., the Turks had obtained control of Arabia and of Turkey in Asia and Europe. Jerusalem was also brought under the heel of the Turkish empire shortly after this period. The history of Turkey will be given in the lesson on the Hamites. In these lessons we have not considered the story of other descendants of Shem such as the Syrians and Lydians, for their history is soon absorbed by the other nations about them, and, therefore, will not occupy our attention. In the Arabian peninsula there still exists the descendants of Esau, of Ishmael, and of Lot. Most of them retain their ancient habits and customs, yet all are today controlled practically by the Turks who are descended from Ham. 

questions. 

Who were the Semites? What is a Gentile? What can you say of the Persians? Tell the story of the Babylonian empire. What difference is there between an Arab and a Turk? (See encyclopedia, or a general history, for full answers to all these questions. High schools use good general histories and many towns have public libraries. Use any references available always remembering that much ancient history outside of the Bible is often largely conjecture and theory. 

LESSON III. Home Economics. Fourth Week in January. 

Plain facts about food. Food values in 100 calorie portions. References: Feeding the Family, Rose. Laboratory Manual, Rose. Principles of Cookery, Greer. Food for the Worker, Stern and Spitz. Good Bulletins: No. 142, "Principles of Nutrition and Nutritive Value of Food." No. 128, "Eggs and Their Uses as Food." No. 34, "Meat Composition and Cookery." No. 413, "Care of Milk and Use." 

Education in food values is not only necessary for the mother but also for the father. Mothers have carried the food responsibility a long way in silence, and to a certain extent in self-pity because we have held to the tradition that all women can cook. Some of us are brave enough to say that there are many exceptions to that old tradition for experience has taught that all women cannot cook well. There has also been a belief among men that food which was made especially pleasurable on feast days and holidays was a somewhat isolated factor in the well-being of the household. Fathers need to be interested and given some responsibility in the vital question of feeding the family. Many cases of lowered vitality in adults are directly traceable to bad food habits. Many of these bad food habits are directly due to the example set by adults.

One child has not learned to eat gravy, another does not eat vegetables, while a third refuses milk because father has limited food tastes. Responsibility of parents must include efficient training of their children in selection and eating of proper foods as well as proper nourishment of their own bodies. The progress of many women has been hampered in their food study because of lack of co-operation or harmony with all of the members of the household. Variance from established custom has been difficult to establish when potatoes for example were $3 per bushel and rice 10 cents a pound, which in some cases made the housekeeper's attempt in potato substituting unsuccessful. Food traditions which placed rice in puddings made it easy for some members of the family to refuse rice as a vegetable. Such extreme conservation discouraged mothers in trying new combinations in food besides destroying the harmony or balance in the meal which had been carefully planned. This offers an illustration of one of the many difficulties which are possible in the well ordered co-operative home. We need harmony in any attempt to improve home conditions for an enthusiastic, progressive spirit is just as necessary as in municipal progress. Food cooperation will probably not be difficult in most cases as the writer's experience places men as most interested listeners on food topics. Parents must be converted to the fact that the taste for any article of diet can be acquired at will, and conquered at pleasure. Because we have so often purchased the year's supply of coal in one lot, the tradition used burning it is "coal is coal" rather than "coal is money." Just so is the attitude on food substitutes. Many people have never acquired the power to mentally taste new foods or taste old foods prepared in new ways. Such people are food cripples. Let the word be carried that we should eat 99 out of every 100 foods and get pleasure from the variety afforded. Such intelligent food habits will give us a better chance for balanced meals. Another ancient theory shared by many people is that, primarily, "eating is a pleasure." Four hundred years ago among the Gourmands it was a pleasure. The more recent theory, however, is that primarily, "eating is a duty." The busy mother whose cooking and sewing responsibility rests heavily on her mind at mealtime, should make this latter text a working principle in her life. Many nervous, irritable, broken down mothers are so because of eating insufficient food. Mothers should try to measure the food they consume with the required daily amount and determine if their day's supply has been sufficient. One busy mother whose energy requirement was 2,500 calories was eating only about 1,100 calories which is less than enough to obtain body equilibrium in bed. During the season of heavy work on the farm great care should be exercised in order that sufficient food may be supplied to meet the extra energy demands. The housewives in the older countries seem to have met this need by serving between-meal lunches. These may be very simple and may not be more than a bowl of bread and milk or bread and cheese or milk and cookies, or fruit beverage and sandwich. Sometimes the food supply is not regulated to the body demands. Many colds in winter are the direct result of overeating. Men who are working only part of the day should eat less food than if they work long hours. Many men and boys during the winter months of partial inactivity thus suffer needlessly from colds because they have not good food habits for periods of low energy output. Doctors say they can well afford to be extravagant in gift-giving at Christmas time because their harvest comes immediately after the holidays. Excessive stoking of the body engine has filled it with clinkers which must be removed in order to restore harmony to the body processes. "Health is the harmonious relation and activity of all parts of the body." The right kinds of food in proper amounts is a very important health factor. Children who are under-nourished either from organic causes or under-feeding, are not in harmony with themselves or others. Much irritability is directly traceable to the alimentary canal and most of the disturbances, in what Dr. Wiley calls the most dangerous canal in the world, are unquestionably due to bad selection of food, improper cooking or careless eating. We must give full value to the fact that good food habits in children are quite as important as are the so-called "manners" and the multiplication table. Imperfect nutrition should reflect just as much discredit on the family as ignorance in the common school branches.

By the time a child is five or six years old he should know and like most simple well-cooked dishes, make proper combinations and eat carefully. Such training will mean much in body building for the succeeding twenty years when growth is attained. Good health in adult life is founded in childhood. Malnutrition often shows itself in so-called fits of temper which in high-strung children are really "nerve storms." At signs of possible outbreak of a fit of so-called temper it is a good thing to give the child some hot, light refreshments such as broth, soup, or hot milk and put the child to bed until equilibrium is restored. There seems to be a general misunderstanding as to the food requirement of elderly people. The demands for energy are lessened and only a necessary body-equilibrium process is carried on so that the food requirements are considerably less than in youth and middle age. The fuel requirement for a person between 70 and 80 is only about 1,800 calories which is about the same as required for the eight-year-old. Calorie is simply the food unit of measure and need not be more confusing than the yard, gallon or quart. The food requirements have been studied carefully and devices called calorimeters or calorie measures make it possible to estimate food requirements. By means of the two kinds of calorimeters food values have been measured both inside and outside of the body. In figuring food requirements the following factors are considered: size, age, shape, sex, height, weight, habits, work, surface. A tall, thin person needs more food per weight than does the short, plump one. The active growing boy, 7 to 14, frequently needs more food than his mother. The man who is doing heavy 722 . manual labor requires twice the food that is necessary for the man doing light work. The cheapest source of heat and energy and building material is found in the cereals, but the proportion of protein in them is insufficient for the day's supply. When a quart of milk for each child under 8 is allowed, and a pint for each adult where a reasonable number of eggs are used, meat need not be served more than once a day. The cost of cereals when bought in large amounts should be about one-half cent for 100 calorie portion. Protein foods cost from two cents to five cents more per 100 calorie portion. Vegetables and fruits vary as to season, but cost from one-half cent or less to twenty cents per 100 calorie portion, e.g., when potatoes at sixty cents a bushel to celery or asparagus at fifteen cents a bunch, we get the two extremes of cost. However, the careful housewife will spend as much of the income for fruits and vegetables as she will for meats and cereals. In order that those under her charge shall not lack in animal salts and vitamins, considerable thought needs to be given to fresh foods in the day's diet. The old Italian proverb, "An apple a day keeps the doctor away," might well be paraphrased into "Fresh fruit and vegetables each day keeps the doctor away." Cabbage salad, raw onion, apples, oranges, celery and lettuce all have a place in the winter diet. QUESTIONS. 1. Use any three members of the class to give their own day's meals to compare with suggestive meals in lesson. 2. How is it possible to arrange for different amounts and kinds of food to suit varying conditions of family at a meal? 3. Give substitutes for the following foods: Meat, bread, sugar. 4. In what ways have you changed your meal service to meet present conditions? (See Home Science Department.) RELIEF SOCIETY BUREAU OF INFORMATION AND EXCHANGE. A bureau of information with headquarters in this office has been authorized by the General Board of the Relief Society between stake and ward organizations who desire to exchange or sell food products and supplies. A lady in Salt Lake stake wishes to buy home bottled corn and peas.