is your side, or bowels, or chest, which has dull, heavy, or sharp, stinging pains which instantly bring your appendix, a cancer, your gall or your lungs, before your mind's eye, showing to your imagination either or all of them in the last stages of gangrene;  or it's your head which buzzes or throbs or shoots, suggesting blood pressure, hardening of the arteries, or paralysis, or worse still, mental collapse and brain disorders; and finally, there you lie awake, beside your peacefully snoring husband, hour after hour, breathing deep, counting sheep, saying over hymns, or fighting off depression and gloom, as the hours strike lagging on, leaving you to wake suddenly and shudderingly with the worst fear of all — the fear of a fear — and you ask yourself why you are such a coward and fool that you will allow yourself to suffer so needlessly and so unwisely. Wake up your husband and tell him about it? To hear his oft-reiterated charge to you to be "a reasonable human being and to stop worrying?" Not while you are a woman! For that's what we all are, and the good Lord made us as we are. Sensitive, so we should cuddle and pet our babies;  sympathetic, so that we might help men and each other to bear with the sins of the world;  imaginative, so that we could look into the overgrown boy's heart of the man sleeping beside us and realize that he is not cruel, only tired and wakened out of sound sleep. The Lord made us full of all fears so that we should set them up as barriers against evil, disease, and death, for our little ones, our husbands, and ourselves. This is how God fashioned us women. Well, then, when you wake next time with a sudden panic of heart-strangling fright, or lie sleepless through the night fighting the good fight of faith against fear, prayer against evil, just remember that there are myriads of women doing exactly the same thing, at the same time, all over the earth. Women have so suffered and feared since the gates of paradise were shut against" Eve. It is only the selfish, coldhearted women, trained by false environment, or by false modern religion, who would teach you to close your tender heart to fear or to sympathy. But when the fears become unbearable, rebuke tjiem in the name of Christ. All evil and darkness must depart when that holy name is named. Then remember the promises made to you by the priesthood, claim the fulfilment of those promises and cling to the iron rod, the word of God. President Grant often quotes the promise that the fruits of righteousness are peace, sanity, love, rest, and all faith. So, once more offer up a prayer, rebuke your fears in Christ's name, and turn