========== FRONT MATTER ==========

Vol. X NOVEMBER, 1923 No. 11 

CONTENTS 

Page

Harvest Home Frontispiece
Harvest Home (Poem) Alfred Osmond 529
Names (Poem) 531
Louis Pasteur (Portrait) 532
Pasteur's Contribution to the Relief of Human Suffering Dr. F. S. Harris 533
Faith (Poem) 538
Moonlight on the Lake (Poem) Ida R. Alldredge 540
Ruth's Thanksgiving Elsie Talmage Brandley 541
Nurse Aids' Class 550
Old Man Clegg 551
The Reasons for the Christmas Seal 555
Jealousy H. L. Johnston 556
Something to Think About Heber J. Sears, M. D. 559
Ten Reasons Why I Should Subscribe for the Relief Society Magazine 560
One Hundred Years of Teacher Training A. E. Winship 562
Of Interest to Women Lalene H. Hart 564
Notes From the Field Amy Brown Lyman 567
Guide Lessons for January 575
Teachers' Topic for January 580

PUBLICATION INFORMATION

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg. Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c
Canada and Foreign, $1.25 a Year—15c Single Copy
Entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah

ADVERTISEMENTS

Begin Now to Plan An Electrical Christmas

There are so many appropriate and useful electrical Christmas gifts that you have only to choose the right one! Electric table appliances, lamps, irons,—toy ranges and toy trains for the children—a host of gifts that will be greatly appreciated.

Utah Power & Light Co.
EFFICIENT PUBLIC SERVICE

BURIAL CLOTHES

Relief Society first to recognize the need of meeting the reduction of high prices

Call at our Burial Clothes Department
23 Bishop's Building
Open Saturday from 9 to 5
Prompt attention given all out of town orders

TEMPLE SUITS MADE TO ORDER

Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3286

Mention Relief Society Magazine

WE ARE INFORMED

This space will bring business, because readers of this paper want the goods that save labor and give perfect satisfaction.

"Puritan Model White" Electric Machine
TREADLE MACHINES TAKEN IN TRADE

WHITE SEWING MACHINE CO.
72 So. Main
Salt Lake City, Utah

Quality First with

W. M. McCONAHAY
THE JEWELER
64 So. Main
Phone Was. 1821
Salt Lake City, Utah

When Shopping Mention Relief Society Magazine

This is Your Privilege To—

Visit the Adult Work Shop for the Blind, 120 East 1st South, Old City Hall, and see the blind adults in action making carpets, rugs, couch covers, pillow tops, clothes bags, and many other useful articles.

By buying their products, we are making it possible for the Blind to support themselves, thus bringing happiness and contentment into their lives. It is the duty of those who can see, to make it possible for these ambitious and industrious people to live and be happy. A visit to the shop will convince you that you can be of great assistance to them by creating a market for the things they produce.

Phone Hy. 1658-R
From 8 a. m. To 12 m.

Individual Sacrament Sets
Now in Stock

BEST IN THE MARKET
WILL LAST A LIFE TIME
36 GLASSES IN EACH TRAY
RECOMMENDED BY PATRONS
REFERENCES FURNISHED

Made especially for L. D. S. Churches, and successfully used in Utah and Intermountain region, also in all Missions in the United States, Europe, and Pacific Islands.

Basic metal, Nickel Silver, heavily plated with Solid Silver.

SIMPLE, SANITARY, DURABLE
Satisfaction guaranteed. Inquiries cheerfully answered

THE LATEST ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

"I am in receipt of the Individual Sacrament Set, consisting of four trays and the proper number of glasses. Everything arrived in good condition. We are very pleased with it. I take this occasion to thank you for your kindness."

Bishop's Office, Bern, Idaho, May 2, 1921.

BUREAU OF INFORMATION
Temple Block
Salt Lake City

Ask your dealer for Z. C. M. I. Factory Made Kiddies' Allovers


========== UNCOVERED TEXT ==========

DUTCH CUT

They are the famous Mountaineer Brand in dark blue, light blue, striped and khaki

Mothers—they are just what you need for the little tots—and the kiddies like them too

--- gap ---

As we write this article, the possibilities from all sides crowd upon us and we feel like using the Scriptural phrase, "The field is white already to harvest, let us thrust in our sickles and reap."

--- gap ---

We have now reached the period of the New England Re-


========== BACK MATTER ==========

(Copies of Normal Life may be obtained from the Deseret Book Company, Salt Lake City, Utah. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. What is meant by social adjustment? 2. Give an example of a maladjusted person. 3. Why must any study of social problems center about the home? 4. Name five elements or ?ssentials of living for which the home is responsible. 5. How does the school assist an individual to a sound sociat adjustment? 6. Why is a religious person usually more dependable and stable than a spiritually indifferent one? 7. What are the constructive forces in a community? 8. What are the destructive forces in a community? 9. What has your community (either city, county, or state) done to prevent delinquency, and to control gambling, vice, etc? Teachers' Topic for January THE GOSPEL IN THE HOME Faith "Faith is a perfect trust in God, allied with obedience to his commands."?John Lord, TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JANUARY 581 Faith in God is to believe that he is, and that he is the only supreme Governor and independent Being in whom all fulness and perfection and every good gift and principle dwell independently. "Faith is the foundation of all righteousness." ?Gospel Doctrine. Page 122. (a) The early teaching of prayer instills in the heart of the child faith in the Lord and his goodness and mercy. (b) Family prayer is a strength and guidance for life's daily cares and labors. (c) Private and silent prayer is a comfort and help to the soul. NOTE: In introducing gospel principles for teachers' topics, it is desired that these subjects be discussed in a friendly, conversational manner. In School Days John Greenleaf Whittier Still sits the school-house by the road, His cap pulled low upon a face A ragged beggar sunning; Where pride and shame _ were Around it still the sumachs grow. - mingled.: And blackberry-vines are running. Pushing with restless feet the snow Within the master's desk is seen, To right and left, he lingered;? Deep scarred by raps official; As restlessly her tiny hands The warping floor, the battered seats, The blue-checked apron fingered. The jack-knife's carved initial; He saw her lift her eyes; he felt The charcoal frescoes on its wall; The soft hand's light caressing, Its door's worn sill, betraying And heard the tremble of her voice, The feet that, creeping slow to school, As if a fault confessing. Went storming out to playing! 2 yee: "I'm sorry that I spelt the word; I hate to go above you, "Because,'?the brown eyes lower fell, "Because, you see, I love you." Long years ago a winter sun Shone over it at setting; Lit up the western window-panes, i.; And low eaves' icy fretting. Still memory to a gray-haired man That sweet child-face is showing. Mace the ee eee curls, Dear girl! The grasses on her grave nd brown eyes full of grieving, H Rove: b ing! Of one who still her steps delayed OND DSS aN SNS When all the school were leaving. He lives to learn, in life's hard school: How few who pass above him For near her stood the little boy Lament their triumph and his loss, Her childish favor singled: Like her?because they love him. The Farewell Of a Virginia Slave Mother to Her Daughters Sold Into Southern Bondage John Greenleaf Whittier Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. Where the slave-whip ceaseless swings, Where the noisome insect stings, Where the fever demon strews Poison with the falling dews, Where the sickly sunbeams glare Through the hot and misty air? Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. There no mother's eye is near them, There no mother's ear can hear them; Never when the torturing lash Seams their back with many a gash, Shall a mother's kindness bless them, Or a mother's arms caress them. Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. O, when weary, sad, and slow, From the fields at night they go Faint with toil and racked with pain, To their cheerless homes again, There no brother's voice shall greet them? There no father's welcome meet them. Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. From the tree whose shadow lay _On their childhood's place of play? From the cool spring where they drank, Rock, and hill, and rivulet bank,? From the solemn house of prayer, And the holy counsels there? Gone, gone?sold? and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. Toiling through the weary day, And at night the spoilers prey. O that they had earlier died Sleeping calmly, side by side, Where the tyrant's power is o'er, And the fetter galls no more Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. By the holy love He beareth? By the bruised reed He spareth? O, may He, to whom alone All their cruel wrongs are known, Still their hope and refuge prove, With a more than mother's love. Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Vacuum Electric WASHERS Washes by Air Pressure and Suction Washes Clothes without injury Robertson's "EASY" Washing Machine Co, 72 So. Main St. Salt Lake, Utah ?, Choose the service which will meet your needs?Wet Wash, Wet Wash Flat Ironed, Rough Dry and All Finished. Ca 2 LAUNDRY Office 819 Main St.. Telephone Hyland 190 4 Distinctive Work { The Farewell Of a Virginia Slave Mother to Her Daughters Sold Into Southern Bondage John Greenleaf Whittier Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. Where the slave-whip ceaseless swings, Where the noisome insect stings, Where the fever demon strews Poison with the falling dews, Where the sickly sunbeams glare Through the hot and misty air? Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. There no mother's eye is near them, There no mother's ear can hear them; Never when the torturing lash Seams their back with many a gash, Shall a mother's kindness bless them, Or a mother's arms caress them. Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. O, when weary, sad, and slow, From the fields at night they go Faint with toil and racked with pain, To their cheerless homes again, There no brother's voice shall greet them? There no father's welcome meet them. Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. From the tree whose shadow lay _On their childhood's place of play? From the cool spring where they drank, Rock, and hill, and rivulet bank,? From the solemn house of prayer, And the holy counsels there? Gone, gone?sold'and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. Toiling through the weary day, And at night the spoilers prey. O that they had earlier died Sleeping calmly, side by side, Where the tyrant's power is o'er, And the fetter galls no more Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone. By the holy love He beareth? By the bruised reed He spareth? O, may He, to whom alone All their cruel wrongs are known, Still their hope and refuge prove, With a more than mother's love. Gone, gone?sold and gone, To the rice-swamp dank and lone, From Virginia's hills and waters? Woe is me, my stolen daughters! A Vacuum Electric WASHERS Washes by Air Pressure and Suction Washes Clothes without injury Robertson's "EASY" Washing Machine Co, 72 So. Main St. Salt Lake, Utah Choose the service which will meet your needs?'Wet Wash, Wet Wash Flat Ironed, Rough Dry and All Finished. Dia a, ef LAUNDRY Office 819 Main St.. Telephone Hyland 190 Distinctive Work:  Do Not Waste Your Energy In "Shopping" Call up Hyland 60 and let us take care of your requirements DICKINSON'S Fresh Squabs on short notice. All kinds of delicious Summer Drinks. 680 East 2nd South Street. 0 Hyland 60. Our most valuable assets are our many satisfied Customers. Salt Lake City, June 29, 1923 The management of the Relief Society Magazine urges an early settlement of all outstanding accounts. PHOENIX SILK STOCKINGS "The Silk stocking that stands wear." No. 365 Ladies' Black, white, brown, grey, Otter$1.25 No. 708 Ladies' Colors as above 1.65 No. 368 Ladies' Full Fashioned. Colors as above 2.00 POSTAGE PREPAID. SEND US YOUR MAIL ORDERS. OGDEN-UTAH KNITTING STORE.. Mention Relief Society Magazine - CENTURY PRINTING CO. 231-35 Edison Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Catalogs, Color-Work, Programs, Publications, Commercial forms. Service is Our Motto. Our Phone, Was. 1801. ) Choice Meats. 2357 Washington Ave. Fancy Groceries. Ogden, Utah  Glazier and Taylor 33 EAST BROADWAY A Store Dealing in Quality Hosiery and Underwear Exclusively Heavy Silk Full-Fashioned, all colors A wonderful hose for wear Per Pair.............. $2.00 Box of Three Pairs....... 5.75 Silk Semi-Fashioned, all colors, beautiful and durable Per Pair $1.50 Box of Three Pair 25 Silk with Extra Stretch Elastic Top, the Comfort Stocking Per Pair........ $1.65 Box of three pairs $4.75 Pure Silk, Semi-Fashioned, very durable All Colors Per Pair $1.05 Box of Three Pairs $3.00 MAIL ORDERS PREPAID NS 4} C Both Public and Private contain bound volumes of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Following are the bound volumes we have on hand: 5 vols. 1915, leather bound.. $3.50 2 vols. 1916, leather bound 3.50 2 vols. 1916, cloth bound .. 2.75 5 vols. 1917, leather bound. 3.50 3 vols. 1918, leather bound:. 3.50 1 vol. 1919, cloth bound... 2.75 5 vols. 1919 leather bound............................. 3.50 10 vols, 1920, leather bound 3.50 7 vols. 1921, leather bound... 3.50 1 vol. 1922, cloth bound 2.75 5 vols. 1922, leather bound. 3.50 l5c extra for postage All orders should be addressed to the Relief Society Magazine, Room 20 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah.. UNDERTAKERS Marr D Simons 4913-15-17 South State Street D. Branson Brinton Murray Branch Ned K. Simons Salt Lake City, Utah S Y Phone Murray 4 Licensed Embalmers Lady Attendant  To Our Magazine Subscribers We call your attention to the very high class firms who advertise in the Magazine, and ask, whenever possible, to give them your loyal support and patronage. Also kindly mention having read their advertisement in the Magazine. We hope by your assistance to prove our value as a medium through which to advertise. Magazine Management. ?? When the Youngsters Come in Cold and Hungry, Serve PIERCE'S Tomato Soup PIERCE'S TOMATO SOUP is delicious and nourishing served steaming hot it is just right for the youngster's lunch on a cold day Everlastingly Backed By The Utah Canning Co. AG BUSINESS COLLEGE aa TRAINING will fit you for business employment in the shortest possible time. The subjects taught are selected because they are practical?because the business world demand them. Our instruction methods are intensive and effective. Our equipment is modern and adequate. Business men recognize our College as the leading commercial school in the Intermountain Country. All the Year. Salt Lake City UTAH  Business College Call Wasatch 3951 SALT LAKE CITY Day and Evening Sessions Our instruction methods are intensive and effective. Our equipment is modern and organize our College as the leading commercial school in the Intermountain Country. All the Year BLUE PINE Strength and Purity No matter what your skill in the cooking art, things may go awry and the dainty "dish" fall flat?if the flavoring is at fault.; EXTRACTS Blue Pine Extracts?Lemon and Vanilla?are strong, full of flavor and absolutely pure. Try them?you will always stay by them. ASK YOUR GROCER John Scowcroft & Sons Co. Relief Society Women?ask your grocer for Blue Pine Products RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE -