[Vol10 | November 1923 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Pasteur's Contribution to the Relief of Human Suffering Dr.]

Pasteur's Contribution to the Relief of Human Suffering By Dr. F. S. Harris, President of the Brigham Young University. When we look over the history of the world we find that there are a few men and women who stand head and shoulders above everyone else in their contribution to the relief of their fellows from drudgery and suffering. One of these is Louis Pasteur, the hundredth anniversary of whose birth has been celebrated throughout the world during the last year. To him more than anyone else is probably due the credit for finding means of eliminating sickness and disease from the world; he discovered the cause of diseases and thereby allowed us intelligently to fight these enemies of mankind. During all the thousands of years prior to Pasteur's time many false theories were advanced to account for diseases, and treatments have varied from the use of charms and incantations to the subjecting of the patient to the most terrible suffering in the hope that the diseases would be driven away through such torture. Those who treated diseases groped about like blind men who depend upon the feel of an occasional guide post but who for the main part have no clear vision of the road before them. Of course, as there were thousands of people thinking about them, many things were found out concerning disease and many successful remedies were developed; but for the most part they were ineffective because they were merely guesses as to what ought to be good and not remedies based on facts of an undisputable nature. Into such a world on the 27th of December, 1822, was born Louis Pasteur. He was of as ordinary parentage as almost any of us. His grandfather was a French serf, until he purchased his freedom, and his father was a tanner. So humble was Pasteur that when he was offered a position as teacher at a salary of 300 francs, or $58. A year and board, he accepted, but modestly told them that he thought the salary was more than he could honestly earn. Because the facts discovered by scientists are of such « worldly nature it is often thought that scientists do not have the tender family and religious natures that other people possess. This is not a fact, and the life of Pasteur is an excellent refutation of this idea. Out of his salary of $58. A year he somehow managed to save enough to help educate his sister. He was always kind and thoughtful of his parents and his married life was of the happiest sort. 534 »-RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE If God places his children here on earth to fulfil a definite purpose, there can be no doubt as to why Louis Pasteur was born at the time he was. Pasteur always considered that his ideas were heaven-sent and he always bestowed them to the world as such. His faith in the divine nature of the messages which were sent through him to the world was not shaken in spite of the discouragement and even scorn showered upon him by the most learned men of his time. He remained religious and indifferent to philosophical implications which others thought his discoveries proved. During the most perplexing period of his life he said, "God grant that by my persevering labors I may bring a little stone to the frail and ill assured edifice of our knowledge of those deep mysteries of life and death where all our intellects have so lamentably failed. Led by such kindly thoughts it is small wonder that Pasteur started a work which has proved of such a vast benefit to the human race. His first discoveries were, of course, only feelers which started him toward the ones of greater importance which followed. His first great interest in bacteria and other minute organisms was in connection with those causing wine to spoil. After studying these germs he became convinced that they were not produced spontaneously, or without parents, as had been previously held. This was denied by the greatest scientists of Pasteur's day, but their denial did not shake Pasteur's faith. He plodded onward with his investigations and finally secured such overwhelming proof of the truth of his idea that all but a few bigotted individuals were convinced.- With this proved, Pasteur had the key to the preservation of perishable products. From the facts he worked out in this regard has come the idea of Pasteurizing milk, grape juice, and similar products. Who can guess the number of thousands of lives of infants and children who use a large porportion of our milk supply, that have been saved in our cities by Pasteurizing milk? Typhoid fever could not be fought or guarded against until after Pasteur had proved that there were definite organisms causing different cliseases. Huge quantities of fruit juices were spoiling every year until after Pasteur showed how to avoid this loss by heating to kill organisms living in the juices and preventing others from entering it. Pasteur next proved that a silkworm disease which was threatening to destroy the silk industry of France was due to bacteria which were transmitted only when healthy worms came in contact with diseased ones, or touched objects formerly touched by diseased ones. With this information the great silk industry of France was saved. Pasteur now believed that all diseases might be due to bacteria PASTEUR'S CONTRIBUTION 535 cr other minute organisms and he set about to prove it. His health had given way beneath his excessive work before he discovered the silkworm disease and he was never strong thereafter. After the silkworm investigations were finished his friends urged him to quit work but as his mind was still active he knew that his mission here on earth was not yet fulfilled. The dreaded disease, anthrax, was at that time killing thousands of head of cattle and. Other animals. Pasteur was very tender-hearted and hated to see animals or men suffer and finally die of disease. In fact, when he had to vivisect animals he always used an antiseptic, and he is said never to have shot a bird for sport. At the risk of his life, he and his assistants examined the animals which had died of anthrax and discovered great numbers of a certain type of germs which have since been called anthrax bacteria. After correctly concluding that these organisms were the cause of disease Pasteur was inspired by the idea that the severe or fatal cases of the disease could be warded off by immunizing the animals with some of the germs whose vitality had been partially or wholly destroyed. From this inspiration has developed many of the methods now used for preventing diseases. Figures gathered in 1867 showed that of the maternity cases in hospitals, one woman out of every 29, or 3.4 per cent, died of puerperial fever. This was a dreadful condition in the mind of Pasteur, and he had applied his wonderful powers to its solution. By 1879 he had proved that this as well as many other diseases was due to bacteria. Thanks to him we have today only about one dea'h from childbirth in each 1200 cases, or about 0.08 per cent as compared with the former high rate. The above are, of course, only a few of the many important discoveries made by Pasteur. But let us examine the sequel to these few. 'A true conception of the cause of disease was now at hand. The Egyptian darkness which had prevailed in the field of medicine heretofore was now turning to dawn. The young Englishman, Joseph Lister, was trying to improve the appalling mortality experienced by surgeons. At that time practically every person who had an amputation of the hip joint died as contrasted to 8 or 10 per cent today. A hundred fifty years ago over 25 per cent of all soldiers wounded in war died as contrasted to about 5 per cent today. Even under the best hospital conditions if a limb must be amputated from 40 to 65 per cent of the patients died, while now we do not have over 5 per cent of deaths from such operations. Blood poisoning nearly always set in where there was a very serious wound of any sort and death soon followed. Surgeons never thought to sterilize their instruments in going from one patient to another because no reason was seen for doing so. Consequently the surgeon 
 spread germs from patient to patient in many cases. Dangerous germs were in practically all cases unknowingly put into wounds and consequently few if any persons with wounds in the abdomen orwho had to be operated on in this region recovered. The surgeons were not to be blamed for this horrible condition because they had no means for suspecting the source of the trouble. When Pasteur put forth his ideas of the bacterial origin of diseases Lister immediately saw the connection with surgery and he was soon advocating the sanitary methods of treatment which have made modern surgery and wound treatment so safe. Another scientist who took up the work begun by Pasteur was Robert Koch, who not only showed that there were definite germs present in different diseases, but he also grew these germs outside of the bodies of animals and was able to produce the diseases at will by injecting some of these organisms. Many other faithful workers have helped to develop our wonderful knowledge of diseases and how to control them. We are now acquainted with a great list of disease germs and methods of combatting them. It is necessary to mention only a few to acquaint us with the tremendous imporiance of the work begun by Pasteur and still being carried on. Most of us know of the horrors of typhoid fever, pneumonia, tuberculosis, erysipelas, diphtheria, tetanus, bubonic plague, dysenetry, whoopingcough, rabies, relapsing fever, yaws, cholera, syphilis, and leprosy,. The organisms of which are known. Scientists are still searching for some of the more evasive ones such as those causing scarlet fever, measles, mumps, chicken pox, typhus fever, yellow fever, and a few others. But knowing that these organisms exist we can guard against them and not merely trust that we shall be lucky enough to avoid these scourges. We have a definite starting point from which we can fight even these invisible germs. The elimination of danger from stich diseases as those mentioned in the above paragraph is largely responsible for the fact that in the last sixty-five years in which records have been kept of deaths in Massachusetts the average length of life has been increased 15 years or in other words, why the average person at the former period lived only to about 40 years of age instead of 55 years today. In the last ten years the average length of life of all persons in the United States has increased from 50 to 55 years. This great improvement has, of course, greatly reduced the deaths of our children, because the children are in the majority, and many of the diseases are hardest on the younger individuals. In conclusion we must admit that the work which the humble Pasteur began has been of vast importance to every one of us. It has made operations relatively safe; it has made it possible for us tu protect ourselves and our children from attacks of noxious PASTEUR'S CONTRIBUTION 537 diseases, so that we may now expect to live several years longer than formerly; it has made the production of agricultural foodstuffs more certain so that we do not need to pay so much for our foods in order that the farmer may realize his reasonable profits; it has given us a more sound basis for protecting our perishable foodstuffs from deterioration; and it has given us a little better insight into the magnitude of the works of our Father in heaven. The world needs more such men as Pasteur who do their best to "conquer the earth." We need more men whose sole aim is to help make the world a more pleasant place for our earthly abode. We need more men who can receive and interpret the messages which God is trying to communicate to his children.