LESSON III Literature (Third Week in November)
ELSIE CHAMBERLAIN CARROLL
One of the most prolific writers among the women of the Church is Mrs. Elsie Chamberlain Carroll. For many years her poems and stories have appeared in practically all of the Church magazines, so that her writings are known wherever these magazines have had circulation. She was born and reared in southern Utah, the daughter of Thomas and Elinor Hoyt Chamberlain, who, in the early history of the Church, were called with their parents to settle the Muddy Mission, and who later helped in the establishment of the United Order at Orderville. When the order broke up, Thomas Chamberlain was given his share of the common property which he had helped to accumulate. It consisted of a tract of farming land about three miles north of Glendale, known as Lake Farm because of the beautiful and natural lake which nestles at the foothills on its northern border. Here Elsie spent her childhood, living a healthy, normal life with her many brothers and sisters, the Chamberlain family being one of the largest in the Church. Elsie's mother, a natural nurse, took care of members of the family when they were ill, and of other persons in the community who required her services. At her death, which occurred in 1927, the devotion of the family is revealed through a tribute written by Mrs. Carroll entitled Our Mother
No matter what the trials may be That cross our future way; No matter what the pains we bear; How dark may seem this day; We know our lives have been more blest, Than lives of many others, For God had few such gifts to give As she, our queen of mothers.
For us she suffered to give life; For us she toiled and smiled; Her willing hands for us ne'er tired; Our pains she shared, beguiled. Though shadows often crossed her years? Such burdens as crush others? Her courage ever pierced the dark: A symbol for all mothers.


Her lips spoke only words of good? Of wisdom, peace, and cheer; Her soul breathed only faith That banished doubts and fear. So patient! Gentle!?every thought A loving care for others: A life of service, sacrifice? A model for all mothers.
Now God has called her home to those She loved, who went before. Our world is desolate and dark; Gone is our joy of yore. But gone can never be the light She gave to us and others. Oh, may we worthy be of her? Our Mother, Queen of Mothers!
When Elsie was fourteen, she moved with her mother's family from the farm in Long Valley to Kanab, where her father had purchased a mercantile business. This place became her home until her marriage. She attended the grade school and had two years of high school in Kanab, Then she went to the Brigham Young University, where she finished high school. From that institution she has taken also the bachelor's and the master's degree. In 1907 Miss Chamberlain married Charles Hardy Carroll. The romance leading to this marriage started in the childhood days when they sat across the aisle from each other in the little log school house in Long Valley. Among Mrs. Carroll's most treasured keep-sakes are a number of valentines yellowed with age; these she received from her childhood lover on consecutive valentine days from the time she was eight years of age for several years thereafter. The message on the first one reads:
Elsie, my darling, your eyes are so bright They hold every bit of my heart with their light. And if, when we are older, my bride you will be, I am sure we'll nothing but happiness see,
Another bears this inscription:
Charming little Elsie, you've stole my heart away, But I'll try to live without it if you'll send me yours, for pay. And in the years that's coming, how happy I will be If you'll frown on all the other boys and save your smiles for me.
These childhood sentiments seemed to be prophetic of a happiness that did come with a later marriage and that lasted unbroken for seventeen years until Dr. Carroll was called home in 1925. Dr. C. H. Carroll was a graduate of the Brigham Young University and a teacher at that institution both before and after he
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 507
received his medical degree. He did his medical work at Cornell and Chicago Universities, taking out his degree from Rush Medical College. At the time of his death he was medical director at the Brigham Young University and a popular physician and surgeon of Provo City. During the time that Dr. Carroll was studying, Mrs. Carroll did English work at both Cornell and the University of Chicago. Mrs. Carroll is the mother of two children, Helen and Charles. Helen was married during the month of June to Donald Lloyd. A matter of more than usual interest to the family attaches to the June Commencement of 1928; for at that time Mrs. Carroll took her master's degree, her daughter Helen took her bachelor's degree, and her son Charles was graduated from high school. Since childhood Mrs. Carroll has been interested in writing. When she graduated from the eighth grade, she wrote a little two-act dramatization, which her class presented; and while at the B. Y. U., working on the staff of the White and Blue. She has won several prizes. Her first story in any of the Church magazines was a prize story written the year after she was married and published in the Young Woman's Journal. She wrote the story and decided not to submit it. Her husband found it in the waste-basket, copied it, and sent it without her knowledge to the office. The story won the prize of twenty-five dollars. Most of Mrs. Carroll's efforts have been in the field of the short story, but she has written considerable poetry. The Relief Society Magazine has published a number of her best poems. "A Mood," expressing a longing for the loveliness and inspiration of Western nature, was written while she was in Chicago when her husband was taking his medical course.
A Mood
I'm sick of the dirt and the strife and the din; Of political scandals; of rumors of sin; Of the pomp of the rich; the wail of the poor; Of the incessant grafting; the glitter and lure; I'm sick of the faces I see without end? The faces of strangers with never a friend; I'm sick of the tumult of passions that play Such a havoc with peace in my heart every day: The passions of hate, of envy and pity? O, I'm sick of it all, I'm sick of the city!
And I long for a glimpse of a mountain so high That its snow-covered summit is kissed by the sky. For the glint of a sunbeam, unsullied by smoke; For the calm of a silence that's never been broke;


For the flash of a bird's wing high over green trees; For the smell of the woods wafted by on cool breeze; For the deep sense of homage that bids me to kneel And pour out my love for all that I feel. Oh, I long once again to sip from those fountains Of courage and faith to be found in the mountains.
The World War aroused emotion of varying sorts in the hearts of mankind. This narrative poem was written during the war:
The Vision
The moon peeped in a window where A white-faced mother kneeled in prayer, And wrapped her in its shimmering light, And heard the prayer she breathed that night.
"O God, it is so hard to pray With battles raging every day; My boy's across the blood-tinged sea! E'en prayer brings little peace to me.
"They tell me he is big and tall. Ah me! He was so pink and small When I went near the gates of death To give to him of life's sweet breath.
"It seems but yesterday he slept Safe on this breast. The tears I wept Were from a heart o'erflown with joy. What pride, what love, I gave my boy!
"What happy work! I'd dream and plan The things he'd do when grown a man. Was all my love and dreaming done To make a target for a gun?
"I know my heart is hard tonight; I somehow can't shut out the sight Of bloody forms and reaching hands Across the sea in death-strewn lands.
"It is my baby over there. God, can't you take a mother's prayer And make a wall of it to shield Her baby in the battle-field?
"If not, dear Father, touch my heart And make it strong to bear its part. I would be brave and true as he, But all my strength must come from thee."
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 509
The moon in pity kissed her hair And swiftly wrought a vision fair. It was the cross of Calvary. But lo! Its burden was not He
Who gave the world its joy. The martyr was a soldier-boy. A great white flag above unfurled: "Democracy for all the world!"
"Dear God," she cried, "I see the light. His is the cross of Human Right. As Christ once suffered, gladly he Now gives his life for Liberty.
"No longer is it hard to pray For now I see the breaking day When that great flag shall be unfurled And wave unstained o'er all the world.
"And if he dies?my boy?if he Can never more come back to me,? I'll humbly, proudly bear my loss? My boy's a savior on a cross!"
Mrs. Carroll has always been interested in young women and exceedingly successful in her contacts with them. During the time she was dean of girls at the Provo High School she wrote the following poem, which was read at the Girls' Day Program in that institution:
The Modern Girl
The modern girl with a fluff of hair, With a dimpling cheek and a smile, Eagerly searching the zest of life; Practicing charms to beguile; The modern girl with a don't-care shrug, With a wilful tilt to her chin, Watching the whirl of the world go by, With never a care what traditions have been; The modern girl in a flapper's guise; With brow unafraid and serene; The worry of elders, perhaps?but she Knows in her heart she's a queen.
And so as a queen her trust she'll keep? Her trust to the ages of time. She still holds it dear, in her larger sphere That womanhood spark divine.


The modern girl, she will carry on As the girls of the past have done. She'll meet her life as they met theirs, With a larger victory won.
A number of the most telling poems written by Mrs. Carroll are those which voice the deep loss she sustained in the untimely death of her husband. The union of Dr. And Mrs. Carroll was one of great happiness, and the separation sounded the very depths of her soul. One of the poems bearing on this event was read at the Conference last April. Another, which has been set to music by Professor William F. Hanson of the Music Department of the Brigham Young University, is called "The Void."
The Void
I cannot see your dear, dear face, I cannot hear your voice, nor feel The loving pressure of your hand. I wait in vain your footstep now, And wake with empty arms that reach In longing, and a soul that bleeds And throbs and aches through endless hours.
You must be somewhere, somewhere, dear. If only I could know that you Are still that YOU I love, That you are happy, dear; And that you know how hard I try To keep my courage strong for you Because you asked me to be brave.
If only you could stretch your hand From out the great, vast dark abyss Of doubt and mystery and fear And let me know you know and love? O then I could be brave No matter what the trials that come; O then I could be brave?but now!
The music to "The Void" may be obtained at a small cost from Professor William F. Hanson.
CLAIRE STEWART BOYER
Mrs. Claire Stewart Boyer has brought to us in her poetry a significant touch from the home, and has also written poems that reflect the birds and trees of her native environment here in the mountains. Over thirty years ago a baby girl arrived at the home of Professor and Mrs. William M. Stewart in Salt Lake City, Utah. As a boy had been desired and expected, the newcomer had to be held
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 511
on approval until all members of the family had voted whether or not she should remain. Fortunately for her the ayes had it, and for a brief period life revolved about this fourth child, who was to be known as Claire. About that time the kindergarten movement was waxing strong in Utah, and at the age of four Claire rode several miles every morning on the handlebars of her sister's bicycle to attend kindergarten. Thus began her educational life, which was rich and full in its entirety. The Training School was Professor Stewart's joy and pride. Here were teachers, brought from all over the United States because of their rare understanding and abilities. And upon the growing mind of the little girl each teacher stamped a significant impression, which will remain ever as a distinct force in her life. It was Elizabeth Kimball, teacher of the fourth grade, who discovered a spark of literary talent in the child, and who sought ardently to develop it. Subscriptions to St. Nicholas, Youth's Companion, and the Juvenile Instructor, luxuries to children in those days, were secured, and an intense love of literature resulted. At home every new educational feature was installed as soon as it came out. A sand table and blackboard occupied the entire side of the library, and all the blocks and colored balls and sense developing games that were just being introduced into the schools, together with great cases of fascinating books were the most prominent furnishings of the room. Here was indeed a paradise for children in the nineties. During the summer months the Stewart family went to their ranch in Provo canyon. Here were spent the happiest days of Claire's life, for here she enjoyed communion with nature and a more intimate companionship with members of the family than was possible during the winter months. Her father was a great idealist and an intense lover of nature. The beauty of Pine Valley at dawn overwhelmed him with ecstasy. Many mornings each summer the little girl would be called from her bed, and a moment later would be standing with her hand in her father's gazing silently at this five o'clock glory. Not until many years later was she able to express those moments in poetry. "The Hill Wife" and "Dawn" are recollections of such mornings. Her only attempt at the time to express the beauties of nature, was the habit of walking alone up the canyon road, and trying to make up phrases that would describe what she saw and felt. But these oral creations were all lost on the wind. In high school she was again inspired by a teacher, Dr. Adam S. Bennion. Here also were established most precious friendships, one of which resulted in a close study of modern poetry, which resulted in the composition of quite a number of poems molded upon the forms of Amy Lowell and her contemporaries. At the University of Utah she won literary prizes and honors and became editor of the Pen, the literary magazine of the University. She was especially encouraged in poetry by Charles Wilbert Snow, the Eastern poet, who said in parting, "It is up to such Western-born hearts as yours to write the glory of this country. We Easterners can't. It is up to you to immortalize your meadow lark and your sea-gulls." Those words, cherished for over ten years, were instrumental in the execution of the poems "Sea Gulls" and "The Meadow Lark." Claire Stewart graduated from the University in 1916 and taught in the state high schools until 1919. In 1918 she was married in San Diego to Lieutenant D. A. Boyer of Springville, Utah. They had been college chums and co-participants in dramatics at the University under the direction of Miss Babcock. A few weeks after their marriage Mr. Boyer sailed to France and Mrs. Boyer began writing poetry in earnest, from two to five poems a week, completing in the year a volume of love and war poems. After the war Mrs. Boyer wrote only occasionally, when inspired. Some of her best poems of this period have appeared in the Relief Society Magazine. They are "Her Things," "Child," "Aunt Em" and "If Ye Have Faith." Other poems have been published in New York and Boston magazines. Recently the muse has been with her constantly, and this year she has written more and better poems than ever before. She has compiled a volume entitled "Wife O' the West," which she hopes to publish soon. They are most of them home poems and observations on life. Several of these follow. Mrs. Boyer is the mother of two sons, and of a daughter who died in 1924. She has some of the idealism of her father, whose advice always was, "If you cannot realize the ideal, idealize the real." Her mother's ambition and persistency in the accomplishment of the tasks she sets herself, have always been an inspiration and an incentive to her to go on in the face of many discouragements. There are two great urges within her which cry for development?the desire to write and the desire to teach, inherited from her mother and her father respectively. She has private students in both reading and writing. At present she is very proud of a class in "Writing for Magazines" the members of which are publishing stories, poems, and plays in prominent magazines. From Mrs. Boyer's biographical sketch we learn that "The Hill Wife" and "Dawn" were inspired by her early morning walks with her father. "The Hill Wife" was published in the Relief Society Magazine some time ago. "Dawn" we shall include in this lesson:
Dawn
The jeweled fingers of the Lady Dawn Caught a cloud-cluster idling in the air, And turned it to a wreath of primroses To nestle in the glory of her hair;
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 513
Then flinging scarfs of gossamer aside, Like rainbow colors free to dance and play, She bared one shoulder from the coverlets And pursed her coral lips to kiss the day.
As examples of her nature poems and particularly of those growing out of her native environment we include "The Meadow Lark," "My Mountains," and "Buds."
The Meadow Lark
A melody pierces the perfect dawn! I bound from my bed like a startled faun, And dash the dripping sleep from my eyes? A meadow lark carries my heart to the skies As I look up.
Like waters that leap in the laughing sun And sing with the splendor of day begun, The throbbing tones challenge and lure and beseech, Telling me God is within my reach If I look up.
My Mountains
You don your gowns for me: your blue March gown With snow-spun lace revelers; your April frock Of timid green and gems of amethyst, Which puts a sacred hush upon my love.
Then summer comes and you are mad with joy, You pose before me in your gown of blooms: A robe of saffron over emerald, Three shades of laughing blue, a scarlet scarf, And you expect me to retain my heart.
Not half content with these, you mock my love In Autumn dress, a fluttering gypsy maid With chestnut skin, your lips ripe-berry stained, Your skirts long sweeps of radiating rays, Crimson and gold?chaotic harmonies.
When I would speak you suddenly grow cold, I kneel in silent worship at your feet, And when I raise my eyes I see you robed In chaste white garments for your burial.
So must each lover, over-awed by love And over-hushed by beauty, be content To watch the passing of the one he loves, And wait the coming of another Spring.
Buds
I never see a rosebud in the spring, First blush of joy to an expectant bower,


Without a melancholic wondering Why we pick buds not leaving them to flower.
The loveborn softness of its petals warm, Its dawn-enfolded baby coloring, It breathes again; I hold within my arm My precious rosebud of a former spring.
I know now why God takes the infant buds From out the arms of Mothers in the Spring, It is a mortal and immortal dream To pluck and hold the only perfect thing.
In the sketch, you will note that Mrs. Boyer has lost one of her children. Her poem "Boys' Day" as also "Buds" reveals much of the mother heart and interest in children that was manifest in the poem she read at the April Conference.
Boys' Day
I plucked a perfect rose bud in the spring, Symbol of one who died in infancy; I started with it toward his tiny grave Thinking how Life had made its mock of me.
For it had robbed me of my only son, And left me gaping before empty years; So I went blindly on in graying grief, Seeing the world through mists of unshed tears.
I took the bud in trembling memory, And through the streets my way I slowly made; A gruff policeman pushed me back apace, "We're roping off here for the Boys' Parade."
And then I looked around and saw the lads, Bright eager boys the age my son would be; I looked into their burning eyes and lo! My own Lad's youthful soul communed with me.
One boy looked proudly up into my face And then glanced shyly at the rose I held, I swallowed hard, but stooping, slipped the bud Into the happy youngster's coat lapel.
His eyes shone and he doffed his cap to me, Embarrassed, but with grace the gesture made, The tiny grave would never miss the bud? And I stayed on to see the Boys' Parade.
Mrs. Boyer's husband was one of the men who was sent over seas. It would be strange if the World War and particularly the condition in which she found herself separated from her young husband, did not lead her to write some things in relation to the
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 515
War. In addition, Mrs. Boyer has given us some of the very best Christmas poems that we have published in the magazine. We are happy, because it is characteristic of her writings, to include as her last poem in this lesson?
"Frankincense, Spices, and Myrrh"
He sat at the door of his Belgian home Re-made from the War's debris, And he thought of the Christ in the manger born And the Christ on Calvary; He thought of the nails in the Savior's hands, And his war-racked memory Saw his own blown off by a hand-grenade For the love of his own country; He thought of the eyes of the dying Christ As He uttered, "Lord Forgive," And he thought of his own burned out by the men Who had dared him to laugh and live.
Within the house lay his wife and babe? A son he had heard them say? And he sought the bed with a heart-sick soul And he knelt on the floor to pray; "Of all the joys stored up above Thou hast given the greatest to me. So God accept the life of a man Who can neither touch nor see; Let me die of joy at Thy great reward Ere my own son's pitying glance Fall upon him whose eyes and hands He gave to help save France."
They carried him out to the open door And bade him rest nor think; They brought his book and read to him, They brought him food and drink. He sat at the door of his Belgian home Like one whose mind is gone But he listened to those who moved about And his lips kept murmuring on? "Oh God let me lie where I long to lie? Neath the soil of my native land; And let him, my son, grow up to see The Peace of the World at hand."
It was Christmas eve and three great men Had met at a gay chateau, They had traveled far but their rendezvous Was not for the World to know.


They had knitted brows and they wore with grace The scientific mien, They carried gifts in their skillful hands, Great gifts that were quite unseen.
"We have the joy of discovery," One said: "We have the power, And if God will we shall prove to Him We need but the man and the hour."
The Belgian sat at his cabin door Long after the sun had set, And the stars were hid and the night was dark For the fog was thick and wet; But there came a light through the muggy night, And he felt its piercing ray, Some steps he heard and a human voice,? Three journeymen on their way.
A word and a thought and a prayer to Him And the Wise Men bowed them low And began the task that their hearts had dreamed And that only their minds could know.
A year and a day they worked away With a joy that none could see, As they thought of the Christ in a manger born And the Christ on Calvary. And one of them made a pair of hands, And one of them grafted eyes, The third restored his memory, For the three were skilled and wise.
And the man who had prayed That he might be laid Neath his harried country's sod, Bowed his head at the gifts that the Wise Men gave And wept before his God. And the three who had plead that they might be led To this newer Bethlehem, Gave thanks to the Lord of All the World For the star that had guided them?
It was Christmas day when they stole away, And they left a happy three: A mother, a babe in a cabin born, And a man who could touch and see. Unknown they had come, their service done To "one of the least of these"? Night of the Christ Child once again, Once more the gift of Peace.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 517
QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS
Elsie Chamberlain Carroll
1. Do you think it natural for one born in the peaceful vales of Utah to experience a mood such as Mrs. Carroll voices in her poem "A Mood?" If you have had experiences somewhat similar, relate them.
2. Do you recall among your friends persons whose attachment began in childhood and finally resulted in marriage?
3. Underline in Mrs. Carroll's nature poems a group of words that you think are particularly apt.
4. Select from her poems in this lesson the two that you like the best.
5. Do you hold the same opinion that Mrs. Carroll expresses in relation to the modern girl, or is your idea different? If so, why?
Claire Stewart Boyer
1. What are the two different pictures presented by the two writers in their war poems?
2. Where in her poems has Mrs. Boyer made reference to the loss of her child?
3. Do you think that giving a rose to the living was a more practical thing than carrying it to her baby's grave? Which do you think would really do the mother the most good?
4. Which poem is devoted to one of our mountain birds? Does it coincide with your experience with the bird?
5. What details relating to Mrs. Boyer's early life lead us to discover the care with which her father and mother reared their children?
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in November)
THE CHILD STUDY COURSE
Lesson 8. (a) Bridging the Gap Between Our Knowledge of Child Well-Being and Our Care of the Young, and the (b) Relation of Nutrition to Mental Development.
We now enter upon a new phase of our study of the child, his nature and his needs. Up to this point (part one of the text) we have been concerned with the fundamental principles of child nature?the laws of psychology, character development, learning, etc. From now on (part two), however, we are going to examine the principles of child-care as they are illustrated in our knowledge of such things as nutrition, mental development, mental hygiene,


delinquency, adolescence, care of intellectually inferior and superior children, etc. (We are making one lesson out of two chapters for the reason that Chapter VIII, Bridging the Gap Between Our Knowledge of Child Well-Being and Our Care of the Young, is largely a summary of the seven chapters which follow it. The valuable parts of the chapter will be discussed in subsequent lessons. For this reason, the reader might very well omit it.)
A. Bridging the Gap. This excellent statement (Chapter VIII) of the fact that society knows a lot more about children than its members put into practice, is made by Dr. H. H. Goddard, a very able authority on feeble-mindedness and delinquency. It was he, by the way, who first adapted the now-famous Binet-Simon intelligence tests to American conditions. He is now professor of psychology at Ohio State University. He makes three important points to which we should like to call the reader's attention.
1. "The gap between our knowledge of child well-being and our actual care of the child is enormous." The author argues that if the care of youth were "efficient and intelligent," society would be getting an increasingly stronger grip on such chronic social ills as juvenile delinquency, crime, insanity, etc., while as a matter of fact, conditions in this respect are getting worse. It might very well be objected, however, that social conditions are not so black as Dr. Goddard paints them, and even if they are, the situation is not due solely to society's inability to rear its children according to scientific principles. It is very probable that many of our social ills are also due to defects inherent in the social order.
2. His second point is that notwithstanding our elaborate knowledge of individual differences, we still act as though people are fundamentally alike. It is interesting as well as surprising to note that one must either get into the hands of a physician, a lawyer or a social worker before his "case" or his "problem" is individualized! Teachers and parents, speaking generally, have neither a technique nor a philosophy for dealing with children individually. When parents and teachers do individualize children?and many do?it is usually by rule of thumb methods. One of the most imperative needs in education is for a scientific procedure for individualizing normal children in the home and in the school.
3. Dr. Goddard's biggest and best-stated point is that the child is endowed by nature with certain strong impulses which must be socialized by habit-training. "In the modern world," he says, "we live close together and in a cooperative society. We have divided up the work of life, so that we are each dependent
GUIDE LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER 519
upon all the rest. Under these conditions, the instinct to hoard and accumulate becomes stealing. The instinct to deceive becomes lying, and unlimited sex activity becomes immorality."
Questions
1. Discuss the relative merits of the following frequently-quoted aims of public-school education: the acquisition of skill, the acquisition of information, the development of character, the development of wholesome personality, preparation for vocation.
2. Assuming the fact, why is there such a wide gap between what we know and what we do about child care? Consider, for example, how little we do to prevent the spread of scarlet fever, to keep children from being hurt or killed by automobile, etc.
3. What special provisions, if any, do your local schools make for (a) superior children, (b) mentally defective children, (c) children with a special talent or disability? To what extent is religious education in your community (e. g., Sunday School, Primary or Religion Class) influenced by the fact of individual differences?
B. Relation of Nutrition to Mental Development. Dr. Emerson, professor of children's diseases at Tufts Medical College, Boston, has given us in Chapter IX a nice, simple statement of the bearing of nutrition on the child's mental development. He states clearly and with emphasis the outstanding fact in this relationship, namely, that mental development accompanies physical development; that mental backwardness goes hand in hand with physical backwardness. There is no one fact in the entire science of child development quite so well established as this. In a recent study of several hundred gifted children by Professor Lewis M. Terman of Stanford University, this principle is again corroborated. The causes of malnutrition as Dr. Emerson sets them forth, are not "lack of food" as many parents have supposed, but a complex of factors calling for expertness in diagnosis and treatment. It will be very striking to many persons of the "new" as well as the "old" schools of child care to hear the child specialist say: "We can discover which of the causes of malnutrition are operating in any given case only by complete social, physical growth, and mental examinations. Each of the three is essential." The mental aspect of nutrition is so important, yet so rarely recognized, that we are including here a few excerpts from a chapter on "Learning to Eat," from Blanton and Blanton's recent book, Child Guidance (Century, 1927). On the perplexing subject of thumb-sucking, for instance, we read: "Since thumb and finger-sucking must be considered as an


indication of the appetite or the state of metabolism of the child, mechanical restraint such as elbow cuffs or aluminum mitts, or pinning the sleeve to the bed, should not be employed. The remedy lies in diet and sunshine.
"In nearly all infants and young children there is a tendency to suck the fingers or thumb when sleepy. This, one can afford to ignore, unless it is carried beyond the third year. It is a normal infantile form of gratification." On the subject of the child's refusing food in order to gain attention, we have the following explanation: "Often, when the appetite is poor or the child has been unwell, he has to be coaxed, petted, cajoled and urged to continue his feeding in order to empty the bottle or breast. As a result he develops a method, perhaps subconsciously, whereby he gets attention by refusing his food; and unless he is very hungry, he is apt to resort to this procedure to get this attention." The infant must not only learn to eat, but must learn how to eat with others, in the approved fashion. To parents with problems of this sort, the Blantons say: "To require children to sit with adults and accept the adults' rate of eating; to watch the adult dally over a special food which to him is delectable; to sit through the conversation of parents often without saying anything or getting any attention, is destructive of good discipline.
"Women who do their own housework often do not realize that it is actually more convenient to feed children before the family sits down to the table. A small table for the children can be arranged in the kitchen, and a little festival made of the meal." And finally: "The child's meal hour should not be looked on as an opportunity for a lesson in eating only. The mother should take this occasion to demonstrate to the child?by example, not by precept?some of the social graces requiring tact and skill. At least one meal a day should be made a "party" with the child specially cleaned and dressed and on his best behavior."
Questions
1. What are some of the mental or behavior characteristics of malnourished infants and children?
2. What are the five chief causes of malnutrition, according to Dr. Emerson?
3. What is a "nutrition class"? Are there any such in your community?
4. Just how much malnutrition is there among the school children in your community?
5. What is the general nature of the health work in the public schools of your community? Is it adequate? Does it include any mental hygiene?
? "PICKLING SEASON" It will soon be time for putting up pickles. It is every woman's ambition to put up better pickles than her neighbor, and almost every woman, some time in her life, has been induced to take 'something just as good' in the way of pickling spices and vinegar. As a result, she has lost her pickles. If you will use SCOWCROFT'S Biue Prine Grounp Mustarp in making your mustard pickles, and BLUE Prine WHOLE Spices in your pickling with BLuE Pine Bottle VINEGAR, we will guarantee that you will not lose your pickles. Ask your grocer for and insist on SCOWCROFT'S Blue PINE Mustard, WHOLE PICKLING SPICES AND VINEGAR. ORD John Scowcroft & Sons Co. A, THE BRICK MAN Says: Brick homes Undoubtedly Inspire their owners with L asting and genuine D elight and W in the deep Interest of others T hrough the H armonious atmosphere surrounding them. B eautiful brick homes R eflect the spirit of hospitality that I nvites acquaintances and forms the C ontact that K indles the flame of friendship. The Salt Lake Pressed Brick Co. 319 Kearns Bldg.