[Vol3 | December 1916 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Genealogy | Title: Genealogical Report and Preview of Guide Work]

GENEALOGY. REPORT FROM THE GENEALOGICAL COMMITTEE OF THE GENERAL BOARD OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY. This year our lessons will take up surnames. The subjects will be subdivided as follows: ? GENEALOGY. September Introduction October Tribal surnames. Sire-names November Scotch and Irish names December Anglo-Saxon names January Scandinavian names in England February Surnames for town and castle March Place names April Trade names May Nick and descriptive names June Prefixes and suffixes We recommend the class teachers to give six primary genealogical lessons at least one week during the winter. These primary lessons should be insisted upon every year until all the people are thoroughly acquainted with the method of preparing genealogical information. Genealogical conventions should be held when stakes can secure the services of a teacher from this Board or from the Genealogical Society of Utah. We also recommend that excursions be arranged to the temples in your districts, if possible, once a month from each ward. Where this is impossible, have your committees take one day a month in some convenient room and invite the people to come with their records and show them how to make out records, and how to secure genealogical information. Instructions on how to arrange excursions were given in our genealogical classes during the late conference. 
 The most important practical work given this year to our Society to do in this line is the invitation extended to us from the Genealogical Society of Utah to assist them in getting out the surname index cards from each family and each individual in the Church. The information required is: The name of the family and where it originated; if work has been done for the family in any temple and where, or if no work has been done at all; where the work was commenced and the name of the heir in the family; the name and address of the person now having charge of the work and the date of getting this card out. You sisters can realize what a wonderful help this will be, in preventing duplication of temple work, in making each family acquainted with all work done by associated surname families, and in making our Genealogical Society a general clearing house for genealogical information. A secondary benefit will be realized in the increased interest which will be shown by every person who prepares this card. The Genealogical Society have printed for us 50,000 cards and will add another 150,000 as soon as we are ready for them. You can realize that if each individual has four lines upon which he may work, it will be necessary to have several hundred thousand of these to represent adult members of the Church. Where there are genealogical representatives they will be invited by the Utah Society to co-operate with us in this work. Always we want to work under the authority of the Priesthood, with their sanction and approval, and thus secure the best possible results. SAMPLE CARD. PREVIEW OF GUIDE WORK.