[Vol8 | March 1921 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Anniversary Program Morag]

Anniversary Programs Morag A number of suggestive programs of Latter-day Saint hymns may 'be appropriately given this March, as we are taking the hymns in our literary lessons. These programs may be used for special occasions in our Relief Society annuals, anniversary day, socials, or at ward conferences. If it is possible to obtain information, it would prove interesting to give brief sketches of the various writers and musicians; some are found in our old magazines, and in Jenson's Biographical Encyclopedia. Some of the hymns may be used as solos, duets, or quartets, others used for community singing. The newer songs suggested should be sung by Rélief Society or 'ward choirs. The programs given do not cover the field. Space at present does not permit more, but if these programs are taken as a guide, others may be given from various Latter-day Saint authors. We trust that the study of our Latter-day Saint hymns, and the rendition of these programs will prove an inspiration and a blessing. PROGRAM I An Afternoon with Latter-day Saint Women Hymn-Writers and Musicians "O, awake! My. Slumbering minstrel,' Eliza R: Snow, Geo. Careless, Hymn Book, page 133. Biographical sketch of the life of E. R. Snow.; Hymn, "Oh, my Father," Hymn Book, page 143; "Awake! Ye Saints of God, awake,' Hymn Book, page 329; "The time is far spent,' Hymn Book, page 343. Emily Hill Woodmansee; read or sing, "Though deepening trials throng your way,' Hymn Book, page 374. Read hymn "The day of redemption,' Psalmody, page 334; "Uphold the right, though fierce the fight,' Hymn Book, page 433; sing "Providence is over all." Solo, "Mother," words and music by Ida H. White, R. S. Book, page 110; trio, "The new freedom song,' Lucy A. R. Clark, R. S. Book, page 127. L. Lula Greene Richards hymn, "My Friend," music by Lucy May Green, R. S. Book, page 67; hymn, "We thank thee, heavenly Father," R. S. Book,, page 80. ~ 158 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE. E Read from Lula Greene Richards poem, see back number of R. S. Magazine or other Church publications. Duet, "Gentle Words," Ida H. White, Lucy May Green. Read sketch of Emmeline B. Wells, song, "Our mountain home so dear;" "Sing the sweet and touching story,' Hymn Book, page 44. PROGRAM II Relief Society Hymns and their Authors, and Musicians Evan Stephens, song, "Let us all press on," R. S. Book, page 51; hymn anthem, "Prayer," Temple Anthems, 2nd book, duet, "God bless our mountain home," R. S. Book, page 3. John M. Chamberlain song, "Land of the Free," R. S. Book, page 96; duet, "The Relief Society," R. S. Song Book, page 126; song, "We love to serve," R. S. Book, page 130., H. A. Tuckett, hymn, "We are sowing," R. S. Book, page 1.; J. L. Townsend, hymn,. "Let love abound," Songs of Zion, page 206; hymn, "Kind words are sweet tones," page 212. Words, Parley P. Pratt, music, George Careless, hymn, "Another day has fled and gone," Songs of Zion, page 3; "The morning breaks, the shadows flee;" Hymn Book. P Charles W. Penrose, "Oh, ye mountains high," Psalmody, page 315; read, "School thy feelings," page 405, L. D. S. Hymn Book. PROGRAM III Relief Society Hymns, their Authors and Musicians "Redeemer of Israel," R. S. Book, page 16; W. W. Phelps, "Barth with her ten thousand flowers," R. S. Book, page 14. John Nicholson, hymn, "The Lord is my light," R. 5. Book; read, "Come follow me the Savior said," page 404, L. D. S. Book. Edwin F. Parry, hymn, "Hail to the brightness of Zion's glad morning," R. S. Book, page 86; hymn, "Beautiful words of love," R. S. Book, page 92. William Clayton, hymn, "Come, come, ye Saints,' R. S. Book, page 22; read, "When first the glorious light of truth," R. S. Book; page 77. Alexander Neibaur and A. C. Smith, hymn, "Come, thou glorious day of promise," page 20, R. S. Book; "Zion stands with hills surrounded," R. S. Book, page 23; hymns, "Oh say what is truth?" (John Jaques) R. S. Book, page 44. B. Cecil Gates, hymn, "Come, Saints, and sing a joyful | ANNIVERSARY PROGRAMS. 159 song," R. S. Book, page 116; "Our eternal home," R. S. Book, page 108. THE RELIEF SOCIETY IN SONG AND STORY Program for Anniversary Day In this program the songs suggested are taken from the Relief Society Song Book. The speakers might be limited to five minutes for each subject. Hymn 55, "Our mountain home so dear," prayer; hymn 6, "Hear us pray," and story; "The first Relief Society, 1843;" trio, 129, "With heavenly inspiration;" talks, "Woman's greatest privilege, Motherhood;" "The mother's plea," Ida Horne White; talk, "The duties of a Relief Society teacher;" duet and chorus, page 126, "The Relief Society." Theology "The Lord is my light," John Nicholson; talk, "Genealogy;" duet, "Voices from the dead," April, 1920, R. S. Magazine. Literature Hymn 89, 'Kind words are sweet tones," Townsend, Beesley. Social Service State song, 101, "Utah, we love thee." United Effort Hymn 138, "We love our work," (M. E. Abel). Behold: 'I have set before thee an open door," Rev. 3:8. 1843-1921 From cantata, ""The opened door," The earth in bondage long had slept, And heavens light was hid; Pure womanhood of hope bereft Was mourning till the Prophet said: "T now turn the key to you, in the name of God, Knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. This is the beginning of better days for you." And womanhood, throughout the land, Rejoicing heard the call; In loving service to mankind, They follow where the prophet led. 
 For woman's catise, adown the years, Has prospered far and wide, Intelligence, blest gift divine, Has freed us, as the Prophet said: "T now turn the key to you in the name of God. Knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. This is the beginning of better days for you." PROGRAM IV Suggestive Programme for Anniversary Day Ward Celebration Congregational hymn: "Zion prospers all is well,' No. 21, R. S. Song Book.: Invocation. Song by choir, "Our mountain home so dear,' No. 26, R. S. Song Book. Tableau, "A Relief Society in Nauvoo, 1843." The first meeting of the Relief Society may be presented, and brief extracts of first minutes read. Scene, interior, 3 males, 18 females, 1 child. Old-fashioned costumes. Song, "With heavenly inspiration," No. 129, R. S. Song Book. Tableau, "Relief Society spirits." Charity is central figure, and is accompanied by Faith, Hope, also Theology, Genealogy, Music, Art, Literature, Home Economy, Conservation, Patriotism, Liberty, Motherhood in Costumes; Greek robes of cheesecloth in pastel shades.: Congregational hymns "Come Saints, and sing a joyful song," page 116.; Tableau, "A modern Relief Society." Here the various activities of present-day Relief Society are given. Explanation of this tableau. Should be given by the president. Tableau, "Earth with her ten thousand flowers," No. 14, R. S. Song Book, first verse. Garden or outdoors scene. Mother Earth, robed in green or brown, is surrounded by white-robed children or young people representing the flowers. Costumes may be trimmed with paper flowers, or made entirely of crepe paper. Between verses, if a phonograph is available, one or two "bird" records might be played. A flower drill, or march, might be introduced while the second verse is played and sung. Third verse, tableau, "All the hopes that sweetly start." Home scene, interior. In one corner a girl might be gazing into her "hope" chest, or a mother bending over her baby's cradle. An ANNIVERSARY PROGRAMS.. 161 older mother may be greeting with pride her returning soldier, or missionary son. A young couple may be pourning over blue prints of house plans, or an aged couple might be surrounded by their numerous progeny. Voices from above. Finally nine angel children, each carrying a large letter, may spell out the words, God is Love. Suggestion, cooperate with the Primary or Religion Class. PROGRAM VII A Century of Latter-day Saint Womanhood Suitable for a stake celebration of anniversary day, or it may be given by a large ward. Prologue Time 1820. Opening music, slow minor dirge typifying darkness. The spirit of Prophecy speaks, 'The earth also is defiled 'under the inhabitants thereof, because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinances, broken the everlasting covenant." First tableau Manhood and Womanhood enthralled, Truth in chains and the Spirits of Evil triumphant. Evil Spirits, Apostasy, Bigotry, Intolerance, Intemperance, Error, Pride, Superstition, Vice. Music, "Dance of the Demons." Evil Spirits may engage in a wild dance, or choir sing, Psalmody, 353, "The nations bow to Satan's thrall." Spirit of Prophecy: "Thus saith the Lord, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among these people, even a marvelous work and a wonder. Whereas thou hast been forsaken and hated, I will make thee an eternal excellency, a joy of many generations. And the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to the brightness of thy rising." Congregational song, "An angel from on high.' During the singing, twelve guardian angels enter from rear of building and group on either side of platform.. First Episode Restoration 'April 6, 1830. Tableau, The Church of Jesus Christ is organized. Interlude, Prayer of the guardian angels, may be recited or softly sung. Music, page 4 Psalmody: "How long, oh kind and gracious Lord, Wilt thou not heed thy daughter's plea? The Gospel's mighty truths restored Opened the way 'tween man and thee. 
 Fair womanhood is still enthralled By superstition's galling chain, Oh hear our prayer, and set her free, We plead in our Redeemer's name., Amen." Tableau, Nauvoo, 1842. The organization of the Relief Society, 18 women, 1 child, the Prophet Joseph, John Taylor, Willard Richards. (Old-fashioned costumes.) Interlude, Womanhood set free, Womanhood, accompanied by Faith, Hope, Charity, Truth, Righteousness and Intelligence, sing, '""With heavenly inspiration,' 129 R. S. Hymn Book. The Spirit of Prophecy: The Prophet of the Lord said, "I now turn the key to you in the name of God; knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time, this is the beginning of better days for you." The objects of this new organization are: Charity expressed in' word and action; Separation from the world and its evils; Love to God and your neighbor, both the living and the dead; Missionary work, to gain intelligence and save souls. Second Episode Crossing the plains—1850: Evening camp. The wayside grave, first glimpse of the Valley, "This is the place," song, "Oh ye mountains high." ( Penrose.) Tableau, Eliza R. Snow, and her administration: Early Relief Society activities; "The teachers." 126 Song, "The Relief Society." (Chamberlain. ) Third Episode Zina D. Young and her work: Utah, 1880-1890, "The General Board Organization." The silk industry, Deseret Hospital, Nurse Work. Fourth Episode Temple work, as Temple leader Bathsheba W. Smith, Woman's Suffrage, Sarah M. Kimball as suffrage leader. Tableau, "Relief Society Wheat Saving:' Harvest Scene, The Gleaners. President Emmeline B. Wells, (A Modern Joseph); Dance of the harvesters, or harvest song. ' Fifth Episode Woman's work in war 1916, Clarissa Smith Williams, as leader; Angels of Mercy (Red Cross workers) Service Star Mothers, "The dead beautifully laid away," Julina L. Smith; Conservation, etc., War Work. Tableau, Peace and Ratification of Woman's Suffrage, 1920; ANNIVERS spy PROGRAMS. 163 Columbia, attended by Suffrage States, each bearing flag; Flag i wed t em Spirit of Prophecy: "Behold the Lord hath Proclaimeq unto the end Of the World, Say Ye to the daughter of Zion, Behold! Thy Salvation cometh, and thoy Shalt know that I, the Lord, am thy Savior and Redeemer. Awake! Put on thy Strength, put on thy beautify] £arments, oh, daughter of Zion." Womanh od, attended Truth, tellig IShteousness aith,, and Charity, Occupy the center of the Stage. To the Tight are Sroup ef Society Workers d Pioneers To the States, With Columbia and large flag, While at extreme rear ( elevated ) are Guardian Angels, Spirits of Evi] ( 'Touching ) at extreme Tight and left, Ong for finale, "Zion Prospers, afj lS well" number 21 R. Oo. C The Pageant outlined, "AN Century of Womanhood," is suit: able for 5 large s ake entertainment, to be given on the Stage of an amusemen; hall. Car, ion Should be Siven to details i cts, a music, € costumes of the Periods of 1843 and 1880, Should pe carefully chosen, While the suffrage States might be dresseq in bunting, With the Name of the State 2Cross the front Of their Tobe or on the banner €ach one Carries. In the fina] tableau, Womanhood'; robe should be of White and gold. A all concerned, and the entertainment should Prove an aTtistic, social and financial] SUCCessg,