[Vol8 | March 1921 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Guide | Title: Theology and Testimony - Salvation for the Living and Dead B]
Theology  and  Testimony 
(First  Week  in  May.) 
SALVATION  FOR  THE  LIVING  AND  DEAD. 
(Baptism) 
Baptism  is  the  ordinance  required  to  admit  believers  into  most 
of  the  Christian  Churches.  It  is  a  symbol  of  the  death  and  resur- 
rection of  the  Savior.  The  candidate  is  buried  in  the  water  in 
"likeness"  of  Christ's  burial  in  the  tomb,  then  is  raised  up  out 
of  the  water,  in  likeness  of  his  resurrection.  The  baptism  is 
performed  by  another  person  which  symbolizes  the  vicarious 
nature  of  the  ordinance,  and  the  divine  sacrifice  of  which  it  is  a 
type  or  symbol.  That  is,  a  man  may  not  properly  go  down  in 
the  water  and  get  down  under  it  and  then  rise  out  of  it  alone; 
nor  can  he  possibly  hope  to  save  himself  without  divine  assist- 
ance. We  depend  for  salvation  entirely  on  the  vicarious  help  ex- 
tended to  us  by  our  Savior's  dying  to  save  us.  Again,  the  or- 
dinance, howsoever  perfectly  performed,  would  be  useless  un- 
less it  were  administered  by  a  man  holding  the  priesthood,  which 
is  the  power  of  God  to  administer  in  the  ordinances  of  the  gos- 
pel. The  actual  words  used  by  the  Christian  sects  are  almost 
exactly  like  those  used  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  with  one  fundamental  difference,  which  we  will  note 
later. 
Much  of  religion,  and,  indeed,  all  mental  life  is  interpreted 
or  made  plain  to  our  senses  by  the  means  of  symbols.  We  use 
a  set  of  symbolic  sounds  grouped  together  as  words,  which  con- 
vey a  thought  from  mind  to  mind,  or  a  thought  "from  me  to 
you,"  as  it  were.  We  group  a  set  of  symbols  on  a  page  of  paper 
and  call  them  words  and  sentences.  We  shake  hands,  with  the 
right  hands,  as  a  symbol  of  friendship ;  this  is  a  survival  of  the 
oriental  custom,  for  if  the  Arab  offered  his  right  or  sword  hand, 
it  betokened  that  the  defense  of  his  sword  went  with  it.  All 
civil  forms  and  ceremonies  are  symbols.  Oaths  of  office,  etc., 
are  all  taken  in  symbols,  and  symbollically  expressed  principles. 
Faith  and  repentance  are  accepted  by  all  Christian  relig- 
ions as  fundamental  principles.  How  shall  we  show  our  faith 
and  manifest  our  repentance  to  God?    The  Savior,  himself,  left

174  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE. 
explicit  instructions  on  that  point.  He  indicated  his  own  faith 
by  obedience  to  the  first  ordinance  of  the  gospel,  by  presenting 
himself  to  his  cousin  John,  the  Baptist,  for  baptism.  The 
Christian  world  pretty  generally  accept  baptism,  the  Catholics, 
Episcopalians,  Presbyterians  and  Baptists  making  it  obligatory 
for  the  candidate,  although  the  Baptists  do  not  believe  in  the 
baptism  of  infants,  nor  in  sprinkling.  Other  sects,  usually  al- 
Jow  the  candidate  to  choose  it  or  not — as  it  is  considered  by 
them  only  "an  outward  sign  of  of  an  inward  grace."  Yet  most 
of  them,  except  the  Baptists,  believe  in  baptism  by  sprinkling, 
or  by  pouring  water  on  the  candidates. 
Some  form  of  baptism  has  been  practiced  from  very  an- 
cient times.  The  word  itself  means  immersion.  The  Jews  have 
practiced  baptism  from  the  earliest  times.  Many  allusions  are 
found  in  the  Old  Testament,  while  it  is  generally  conceded  that 
John  the  Baptist  was  not  introducing  any  new  rite  or  ordinance 
when  he  went  out  to  the  river  Jordan  to  baptize.  See  Psalms 
51:82.  Isaiah  1:2-18,  Zech.  13:16.  Acts  22:16.  Read  about  the 
great  Sea  of  Brass  or  font  built  in  Solomon's  temple  from  which 
our  own  fonts  in  our  temples  are  modelled :  I  Kings  7 :23-26,  39, 
44;  II  Chron.  4:2,  5,  9,  10.  Tertullian,  the  ancient  historian, 
in  his  tract  on  baptism  (155-222  A.  D.)  refers  to  ancient  Egypt- 
ians, worshipers  of  Isis,  who  were  initiated  "through  a  font." 
Again  he  speaks  of  Greeks  "who  were  baptized  into  the  mysteries 
of  Apollo,  and  Eleusis."  "Any  one  of  the  ancients,"  he  adds, 
"anyone  who  had  stained  himself  with  homicide  went  in  search 
of  waters  that  could  purify  his  guilt." 
Justin  Martyr  who  lived  between  90-120  A.  D.  in  his 
Teachings  of  the  Apostles  gives  the  following  form :  "Baptize  in 
the  name  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son  and  of  the  Holy  Spirit, 
in  living  water,  but  if  thou  hast  not  living  water,  baptize  into 
other  water;  if  thou  canst  not  in  cold,  then  in  warm,  but  if 
thou  hast  not  either,  potir  zvater  -upon  the  head  thrice  in  the 
name  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son  and  of  the  Holy  Spirit." 
(Note  the  changing  of  the  ordinance  even  this  early  in  the 
Church's  history,  as  shown  in  that  last  sentence.)  Justin  Martyr 
further  says : 
"The  candidate  went  into  the  font  quite  naked,  he  fasted  for 
one  or  two  days,  as  did  his  sponsor.  Bishops,  priests  and  dea- 
cons officiated."  "After  the  candidate  came  out  of  the  water 
they  breathed  upon  him  to  exorcise  devils,  gave  him  milk,  honey 
and  salt  as  symbols,  then  anointed  him  all  over  with  oil,  touched 
his  ears,  lips  and  nose,  with  the  ceremony  of  words  attached. 
They  clothed  hin^)  in  a  white  robe,  and  gave  him  a  new  name."
