[Vol8 | March 1921 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: The Primary as First Aid to Relief Society]

The Primary as First Aid to the Relief Society At the recent Salt Lake stake Relief Society and Primary conference the Primary children presented a charmingly, simple, but very suggestive, number which combined information, amusement and vitalized religion so skilfully that we asked for a little transcript of the affair. The youthful Beesley band of musicians, with the eight-year old leader, introduced the program, and singing by all the children closed it appropriately. What more pleasing association could there be than this happy foundation training for the future fathers and mothers of the Church in temple building and Relief Society work? We are very proud and grateful for the inspiring association of Relief Society and Primary workers. COMING FROM PRIMARY. First and second boys come on the stand, from the north side, with Primary Song Book—talking about the songs. Mention several songs they like to sing in Primary. - Third boy comes on from south side and says, "I'll say that was a good Primary meeting today. Didn't Armand sing well? I'd like to hear that song again—here he comes now, with the girls, let's ask him." Three girls and Armand come in from north side. First boy asks Armand to sing, "The Children's Friend." All the chil- - dren stand around the piano. Armand sings. Third boy asks first boy: "What did you learn in your class teday?" First boy tells about the Kirtland and other temples. First boy—, Say, did you notice the temple we just passed? Well, # learned today in Primary that our Salt Lake temple isn't the only temple our Church has ever built. Why, do you know that the very first Latter-day Saint temple was built in Kirtland, Ohio. You know we studied about Ohio in our geography class today. J When the Saints were in Kirtland the Prophet Joseph told them that the Lord wished them to build a temple. The Saints were very poor and some of them didn't even have a home, but they didn't care. When the Lord called they were good scouts so everyone was ready to do "his bit" towards the temple. Some of the Saints just wanted to build a frame house or even a log house—but, not much—the Prophet told them they were not THE PRIMARY FIRST AID TO RELIEF SOCIETY. 145 building a house for man but for God. He said, "Would you build a house for our-heavenly Father out of logs?" So they soon got busy and built it