[Vol8 | March 1921 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Our Anniversary Lula L. Greene Richards]

Our Anniversary By Lula L. Greene Richards RAYS FROM SOME OF THE LOWER LIGHTS SUGGESTIVE NOTES FOR THE "17TH OF marcy," 1921. In reviewing incidents of the early history of the Latterday Saints, many and varied trends of thought are aroused. It is not an infrequent occurrence to come across things which appear of much significance, put to which little importance seems to have been attached by our historians. In many such instances, however, it may be believed that the items which seem to have been overlooked have probably never been brought to the notice of the diligent and energetic searchers, rather than that they have been slighted or underestimated in 'value. Any of the very few members of the Church still living who saw the Prophet Joseph Smith, or who witnessed any of the early experiences through which the Church passed, will do well to leave a written testimony of some of their impressions and their knowledge of such things, for the satisfaction and strengthening of faith in the younger generations. Descendants or friends of any of these honored veterans will be doing good service to the general puhlic, to secure such information and have it preserved even if but little of it might appear in some of our Church publications. In years past it has been the pleasant and reverential way of the Relief Society, in commemorating the day of its original organization, to dwell largely upon the outlines of that great event possibly to the consuming of so much time, so that minor happenings could scarcely be referred to. The several presidents of the general organization with their immediate associates have heen affectionately and justly cited and honored before the different branches of the Society without limitation on all such occasions. How would it be if for "one day" this notable year, we plan a slightly different program? After a brief survey of the Relief Society and its more prominent workers, since its incipiency, there might be instructive and inspirational references made to some of the lesser lights, their characters and works, quite properly remembering also some local lights still burning "on this side." A suggestive example is here given which may be read and builded upon where it is considered practicable THE DAY WE CELEBRATE This great and magnificent organization of the Latter-day Saints Relief Society, we will remember, was first organized by 
 The Prophet Joseph Smith, in Nauvoo, Illinois, on the 17th of March, 1842. There were eighteen charter members whose nates are here given and brief sketches might be given where obtainable, in the local wards, of some of the less prominent ones who have hitherto received little attention. Interesting incidents in the lives of early members of the Church may also be cited: Mrs. Emma Smith, Mrs. Sarah M. Cleveland, Phebe Ann Hawkes, Elizabeth Jones, Sophia Packard, Phillinda Merrick, Martha Knight, Desdemona Fullmer, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, Bathsheba W. Smith, Phebe M. Wheeler, Elvira A. Coles,. Margaret A. Cook, Sarah M. Kimball, Eliza R. Snow, Sophia Robinson, Leonora Taylor, Sophia R. Marks. First General Treasuret of the Relief Society: MRS. ELVIRA A. COLES (SMITH) HOLMES This sketch was prepared by Mrs. Phebe L. Holmes Welling Elvira Anna Coles was the daughter of Austin and Phoebe Wilber Coles. She was born on the 23rd of November, 1813, at Umadilla, Otsego county, New York. She joined the Church soon after its organization and in time went to live in the prophet's home, in Nativoo, to assist his wite, Emma, in her household duties. She was General Treasurer in the first Relief Society (organized by the prophet, March 17, 1842, in Nauvoo). She was subsequently sealed for time an aternity to the Prophet Joseph. After the martyrdom of the Prophet, she was married to Jonathan H. Holmes __for time—he being a widower. Brother Holmes had one child, having previously buried his wife Marietta Carter with her second child, an infant. He, too, was an inmate of the prophet's family, being the prophet's body-guard. Sister Elvira, after her marriage to Brother Holmes, took charge of the little motherless girl, Sarah Holmes. To this union of Jonathan and Elvira was born five daughters, two of whom died in early childhood. Sister Coles Holmes passed that were heaped upon the people at th through the trials and hardships at time, without murmut- OUR ANNIVERSARY. 139 ing. Her husband being one of the noble volunteers of the Mormon Battalion, she was left in Winter Quarters, under very trying circumstances, in a small log house, with no doors or windows, except quilts hung up to break the wind or rain. Through exposure and want, she buried her first child Lucy. After the departure of her husband with the Battalion, in course of time, she gathered her scant belongings together, got her wagon, oxen and cow, which constituted her team, and set out on the long march with the brave pioneers of 1847. She walked and drove her own oxen and cow team almost the entire journey. She experienced many things worthy of note if time and space would permit. One incident, however, I will relate; on one occasion her cow lost a shoe, which rendered her unable to travel. Sister Holmes reported the condition to her captain, and he informed her that she had better leave her wagon and the little girl, Sarah, with the rest of the company and go back a distance of about ten miles to a company who had stayed behind to recruit. This company had a blacksmith with them whom she could no doubt persuade to come on and fit a shoe to her cow's foot. She did so, walking that distance alone with faith in the Lord that he would protect her from wild beasts or Indians. She reached the second company in safety and after resting, the blacksmith accompanied her ten miles on to the first company where her cow was, and after the shoe was replaced properly, she had no further trouble, in that regard. She came into the valley of the Great Salt Lake in July, of 1847, where she made her home in what was then known as the "Old Fort." She taught one of the first schools held in the Old Fort, took sego and thistle roots, also wolf meat in payment for teaching, with only a scant supply of bran, for bread. Her husband joined her as soon as possible after the Battalion was disbanded. They soon after moved to Farmington, Davis county, where they made their home. Sister Holmes worked hard to assist her husband in making a home; she made butter and cheese, which they sold in the Old Fort, to supply themselves with other necessities; she also spun wool, flax and cotton of their own raising and wove the same into cloth. She was a visiting teacher in the first Relief Society organized in Farmington, where she labored till her death. She was a faithful, true Latter-day Saint, for she not only preached but practiced every principle contained in the gospel. She died through hardships and exposure at the age of 58 on the 10th of March, 1871, at Farmington, leaving her husband 
 And his other wife to care for her children. The "little Sarah" was then grown-up and married. Her three surviving daughters all married the late Job Welling. They bore to him twenty-one children. One mother is still living. (The writer.) The sisters have today one hundred and twenty-seven grandchildren and numerous great-grandchildren. Brother Job Welling has today 20 living children. His first wife Frances T. Yeoman of England bore him seven children, five of whom died in infancy, two are still living who contribute to the 127 grandchildren. Brother Job and his wife Frances crossed the plains in the first hand-cart company and buried their first little son on the plains of Iowa. They, too, were faithful and true to every principle and both died at Farmington. Brother Jonathan H. Holmes lived to the age of 75, remaining true, through life and in death, to the principles taught by the Prophet Joseph Smith. (Note: Two of our gifted and genial state and Church leaders, Congressman Miltop H. Welling, Arthur Welling (head of the Lund School) are descendants of this Welling family. This sketch was prepared from an original autobiographical sketch now in the Historian's Office: DESDEMONA WADSWORTH FULLMER SMITH Desdemona was the daughter of 'Peter and Susannah Yeffers Fullmer, born at Huntington, Lucern | county, Pennsylvania, October 6, 1809. Reared by religious and con- | scientious parents, she was a dutiful and prayerful child. When about thirteen years old she prayed much | that the Lord would let her know | which religious sect she ought to | join. And when she heard the gosi) pel preached by the Latter-day | Saints she recognized it as the truth. She was baptized, in 1836, by Elder John P, Greene. Soon afterwards she removed to Kirtland, and from that time on she bravely shared with the Saints in all their persecutions and sufferings. With her brother D. And Ram, living near Haun's Mill at the time of the terrible massacre of the Saints there, she was obliged to secrete herself in the woods with OUR ANNIVERSARY. 141 that. I shall remain true to Joseph always." At a birthday party given for "Aunt" Prescinda Kimball in her home, September 7. A few months previous to Desdemona's death, she participated with the thers in doing honor to the guest of the occasion. Desdemona was there greatly admired for her sweet humility and the integrity and love she manifested towards those who, the Prophet who had introduced it, and brought light and happiness into the world. Younger women were blessed that were in her presence. She died 9 Feb. 1886, in Salt Lake City. NANCY ZERVIAH GREENE When Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, Joseph Young, and others visited Kirtland and met the Prophet Joseph Smith for the first time, John P. Greene was one of the party. He was a brother-in-law of the Youngs, having married their sister Rhoda. In a notable meeting where the gifts of the restored gospel were manifested in great power during the visit of those men, the gift of tongues rested upon John P. Greene. The interpretation was given by the Prophet and he bore witness that Brother Greene had spoken in an ancient Indian or Lamanite tongue, and had prophesied concerning that people. The gift of tongues also rested upon Brigham Young, and the Prophet again interpreted, testifying that Brother Young had spoken in the pure Adamic language which was used in the Garden of Eden. Reference is here made to that particular meeting when the Prophet of this dispensation first recognized the gift of tongues as belonging to the Church, as an introduction to an incident which occurred some vears later in which a wonderful manifestation of God's Providence was given through a little girl, Nancy, the youngest child of John P. Greene, and his first wife Rhoda Young. It was after the expulsion of the Saints from Nauvoo and 
 The hardships and sufferings heaped upon them by their enemies. Evan had just procured the use of a cabin in which the family might rest for a few days before pursuing their tedious journey; and they had gone into it and camped, when he and his young sister were both suddenly stricken down with malignant scarlet fever. Besides the two invalids, Evan's poor wife, Susan, had four or five little children to look after and wait on with no conveniences and very short rations of any kind on hand. Susan, who was a daughter of Daniel Kent and President Young's oldest sister, Nancy, was a delicate but a brave woman. Think for a moment of what a situation she was placed in, with no neighbor near, or help of any human kind, to whom she might turn. One or both of her dear suffering ones might die at any moment. Then there was the constant sickening fear of the children and herself perhaps being stricken with the dread disease. This is a true mother's story told by Susan herself to her own children afterwards, written now by one of them, that the faith of others may be thereby stimulated. Nancy was in her early teens, but she was womanly beyond her years, and a great sympathy swelled up in her heart for her pale, weak sister-in-law staggering about waiting first upon one, and then on another of those under her care. O, how the girl wanted to do something to help the situation! See how her fervant desire was granted! As Susan approached the cot upon which Nancy lay, to give her a drink for which she had been obliged to ask, the sick girl arose into a sitting posture and, raising her hands, began speaking in the gift of tongues, which rested mightily upon her. Susan remained perfectly still until Nancy ceased speaking, then the sick girl finished in her own language with, "Well! I don't know why I have spoken like this nor what I have said."; "Never mind, Nancy," Susan replied brightly, "you lie down now and cover up so you will not take cold. I know why you have spoken and what you have said. The interpretation of the tongue was given to me. You have pronounced wonderful blessings upon me and in fact upon us all. You and Evan will soon be well again and none of the rest of us will be touched by the fever; you said that others of our people are coming this way, we shall soon have help and be counseled what to do." The prophecies and blessings spoken by that little innocent sick girl in the gift of tongues, at that critical time, were all verily fulfilled. Relief soon came to the suffering family, and none of the others took the fever from which Evan and Nancy were both soon entirely recovered. At Kanesville, near Council OUR ANNIVERSARY. 143 Bluffs, Evan M. Greene was advised to remain for a time to assist in strengthening the Church at that point. He was the first United States postmaster appointed in that place. Nancy herself came on to the Rocky Mountains with her Aunt Fanny Young Murray (Smith) and some portion of the family of her Uncle Brigham. In the summer of 1852, while her brother Evan, to whom she was greatly attached, was crossing the plains with his family in an ox train, a great thunder and rain storm occurred in the canyons near the Fort which was the beginning of Salt Lake City. In the night a cloud burst and a flood of water came sweepig down into the little settlement. Some of the cabins were filled knee deep with mud and water. The one in which Aunt Fanny Murray and Nancy lived was so flooded that some of the boxes in which their clothes were kept went floating about the room. Nancy got out of bed and waded around in the water endeavoring to place some of the more valuable things where they would receive as little damage as possible. In so doing she received a violent-cold, from which she did not recover. On the 10th of July, 1852, Nancy's death, which was a remarkable one, occurred. She was sick only a few days when the relatives who had watched over and waited on her became convinced that she would soon pass away. Among these were her youngest brother, John Y. Greene, his wife, Ann Spencer Greene, Aunt Fanny Murray, Uncle Joseph Young and his wife, Jane Bicknel Young. These witnesses told the touching story of Nancy's death to Evan and Susan and their children upon their arrival at Salt Lake some months later. Nancy wanted to see her brother Evan very much, as the time for her departure drew near. This desire. Was impossible for her friends to grant, but she was comforted at the last by being allowed to see her father in the room. She sat up in bed and pleaded with him to come close to her. Uncle Joseph with his great sympathetic heart and refined spiritual nature seemed to sense the situation clearly, and fervently he called out, "Brother John P. Greene, if your spirit is present here, do embrace your daughter!" Nancy threw out her arms as if clasping her father's _ neck and kissed two or three times as if their lips met, then she laid quietly down, and in a few moments her spirit passed from the body. Her last words were "Evan! Evan Green! O dear! I must die!"