PASSING EVENTS.

	THE first Legislature of the State of
Utah has closed its session and the bills 
have many of them been signed by the
Governor and are, or soon will be, in force.
For the most part the work of the Legis-
lators has been satisfactorily done, and the
Governor has proved himself capable of
maintaining his own views when he felt he
was right, instead of yielding to persuasion
or other influences however powerful.
Every one who is at all conscientious must
admire this quality in an executive officer.
The women of Utah have good reason to
admire the Governor’s method of appoint-
ing women on all Boards of institutions
where there was a vacancy, or where women
could possibly serve 
	The Woman's Journal of Boston soon
noted the fact of the appointment of Mrs.
Harriet F. Emerson and Dr. Martha Hughes
Cannon on the Board of the Deaf and
Dumb Institute. Mrs. Emma J. McVicker
who was nominated last year for Super- 
intendent of Public Instruction, but was
not eligible on account of women not being
legally permitted to vote or be voted for,
has been made one of the Board of Regents 
of the University, and is admirably fitted 
for the position; a woman of rare capabili-
ties, a teacher of many years standing, a
practical educator and progressive in all her
work and attainments.
	The Agricultural College has two women
on its Board of officers, Mrs. Sarah B.
Goodwin and Mrs. Emily S. Richards, the
Deseret Agricultural and Manufacturing
Society has women also, Mrs. Margaret B. 
Salisbury and Bertha G. Bamberger, Mrs.
Mary A. Hendrickson, Logan, and Mrs.
Cornelia H. Clayton, Provo and when we
come to the Utah Silk Commission there are
five, the entire Board, Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young, Mrs. Isabella E. Bennett, Mrs. Mar-
garet A. Caine, Mrs. Ann C. Woodbury
and Mary A. Cazier.
	It is a matter of congratulation to the
women of Utah that the Legislature passed
the silk bill. Two of the women on the
silk commission are practical sericulterists
and have done much primitive work. The
industry is decidedly woman’s work, and
will, if methods now anticipated are carried
out, provide light employment for hundreds
of women and children.


THE annual meeting of the State Federa-
tion of Women’s Clubs, will be held in
this city, at Unity Hall, May 20 and 21.
A fine program is being prepared.


