THE ART OE RAISING SILK WORMS.

	THE first to be considered is the seed or
grain, the best is obtained from moths
issued from the first cocoons spun, by the
first worms hatched—these are always the
strongest, and a good start is of great im-
portance. The time of hatching is about
the middle of the moon just as the foliage
begins to come out on the trees. The eggs
should be brought from the low temperature
in which they have been kept to a moderate
warmth, gradually increasing till the
temperature is 75 or 80. All foreign
people wrap the seed carefully in paper and
then in a soft cloth and place inside their
jackets, next the skin, this method insures
an even-temperature, with sufficient
moisture to make them strong; they should
be examined daily, and as soon as they
show signs of hatching, spread out gently
and place a few fine mulberry leaves on
them, the little worms crawl on the leaves
and in this way can be moved to the hurdle,
(and the remaining eggs replaced until
they are hatched) spread the hurdles over
with straw ashes and cover with brown
paper. When they are provided with food
by cutting up the delicate young leaves and
sprinkling these over the young worms,
being careful never to touch the worm’s
with the hand. The hurdles containing
the small worms should be kept in an even
temperature and be protected from drafts,
and sudden changes, and direct rays of the
sun, and feed the worms three times a day.
The excrement of the worms must, be re-
moved with the fibrous parts of the leaves
after the nourishing parts are eaten, and the
worms kept perfectly clean, or they will be-
come sick this can best be done by placing
a few fresh leaves over them, and when the
worms come upon them, they can be lifted
to clean hurdles, and again supplied with
leaves,which are free from moisture.
The worm casts its skin four times dur-
ing its growth, before each change it ceases
to eat, and must be left undisturbed and
free from noise; just as soon as it comes out
of its skin it begins again to eat voraciously,
and increase rapidly in size after each cast-
ling. After the first casting the leaves need 
not be, cut, increase the strength and
quantity of the food daily;—keep in mind
that cleanliness, regularity in meals, even


ness in feeding day and night, are the most
essential points to bring perfect success.
	As the worms grow larger the noise of
their incessant eating is like rain upon the
trees. The worms breathe through little
orifices situated on each side near the legs,
for this reason they should never be allowed
to become crowded together but should be 
given more room as they grow larger.
	No one should attempt to raise worms in
a low marshy place, for in such places the
air is liable to become stagnant, and charged
with noxious vapor, this with all obnoxious
fumes, especially that from tobacco, are in-
jurious and often causes speedy death. Al-
so remember the insects are tender and
must be protected from sudden changes in
temperature, hot weather, being much 
worse than cold, if they are properly fed
they will stand the cold and give more silk,
as they eat much more. Great care should
be taken to have the leaves free from dust,
and dry, but not withered.
	The worms should be watched very
closely, those unable to shed their skins
must be helped out; at the first appearance
of sluggishness in a worm it should be
taken out and thrown away, for if they are
sick it will spread to others, if they are lazy
their cocoons will be worthless, and it is
better to give the room and attention to the 
remainder.
	As they approach maturity the worm be-
comes transparent, ceases to eat, raises and
moves his head from side to side, and 
should be at once provided with small
branches of brushwood or straw (or small
cornucopias made of paper) in which they
will ascend and begin to spin; they should
not be allowed to get close together. They
complete their cocoons in from four to six
days. The male and female cocoons are
easily distinguished, as the female is larger;
an equal number of each should be kept for
propagation—and the rest exposed to
sufficient heat to destroy life, and prevent
further progress of the moth; in this climate
if exposed to the scorching of the sun for
three days, their destruction becomes
effectual, and the cocoons are ready for 
reeling at any time.
	Those which have been reserved for the
production of seed, after the lapse of from
eleven to fifteen days the moth begins to 
push aside the fibers at one end of the
cocoon and crawl out. The sexes almost
immediately couple, the males are thrown
away and the impregnated females are
placed in a darkened apartment for four or
six days, and provided with paper on which
to deposit their eggs; each female produces
about 500 eggs, no food should be given.
Ants, mice, lizards, spiders, and other in-
sects are very fond of the fat tender worms,
and must be guarded against. Thunder
and lightning are very injurious to the 
worms, and it is necessary in stormy
weather to cover up the windows so they 
cannot see the lightning.
	To those who are beginners in the work
we would say—commence by raising a few,
watch them closely, and learn their habits;
by this you will gain experience and will 
not become discouraged.
	MARGARET A. CAINE.
Chairman Committee.


