THE FARMER.

	ALLOW me to ask, how is the farmer
appreciated to-day? I well remember
about 65 years ago, I looked upon the far-
mer as the most independent man of the
human family; not only so, but the most
God like.
	The farmer’s care was to feed and clothe
and provide for those under his care: not
only his family, but his horses and cattle
as well as the feathered tribe must be
sheltered and preserved from the stormy
weather. His whole time and attention
was given in looking after the living beings.
All his care was in looking after that which
had life and seeing that it was in a progres-
sive state. This to me was charming, and
I shall never forget the impression made
upon my mind at that time.
	Now I am 77 years of age, but when I
look back upon those days I feel the same
impression, and ask myself is not this God
like.
	But during the last 50 years and more,
we have been so much captivated by the
arts and sciences, yes, perfectly charmed by
them, that we gaze with wonder and amaze-
ment and ask what comes next. Yes, the
photographs taken so quickly and when
colored they look so like, a child might say,
wait a moment and they will speak to us.
	And again the machinery propelled by
steam and electricity, is also wonderful
and do not we enjoy a ride on the cars when
propelled by electricity? Yes indeed and
I sometimes ask when will that person
come who will navigate the air as Isaiah
saw, when he, in speaking of the gathering
of Isreal, he said "They came like doves to
their windows.” Will not this remind us

[Column 2]
that all this is preparing us for a still great-
er event which is prophecied will come in
its own time.
	Now when contemplating all this, are we
not in danger of saying surely the gods
have come down to earth. But stop a mo-
ment, for those who read the scriptures
and believe the prophecies can see dearly
all this is in the program, and much more.
	Then let us be awake to our duty and
learn our lessons, giving strict heed to the
laws given by our Lord and Master Jesus,
the Savior of mankind. Then nothing
seems wonderful to us, any more than it
did to the disciples of Jesus, when they saw
Him turn water into wine, or call the ele-
ments together which served to increase the
loaves and fishes.
	Please read the Acts of the Apostles, and
we find that in being obedient to the laws
given by the Savior, they had this same
spirit given to them and by it they did the
same things. You may ask who can do
this to-day, and if not why? I will say I
know of those who have given strict heed
to those laws or lessons as you may choose
to call them, and they never fail to get a
knowledge for themselves, yet must not
boast of it, as Jesus often cautioned them
saying, “See thou tellest no man of it.”
Then the tempter will show us what he
can do and thus confuse our minds. Ac-
cordingly we need wisdom as King Solo-
mon said, “In all thy gettings get wisdom.
Strength and power are hers etc.” Is not
this life a school and is there not an oppo.
site in all things? We were sent to this
school to learn both; accordingly we need
wisdom to give each its proper value and
also its proper place. This is the faith of,
	M. E. K.


