OUR CHARACTER.

	ALLOW me to ask, is it true that our
character is the only thing or qualification
we take with us when we go to the next
state of existence; for we must go when
called either sooner or later, and then give
an account of what we have been doing and
what lessons we have learned in the lower
world. Again allow me to ask, what sort
of a character did our Father expect us to
obtain in such a world as this; a world of
disappointment, trials and perplexities of
every kind. Well let us reflect; it must be
for some wise purpose, for all things done
by our heavenly parent are done in wisdom
to prepare us for some other great event.
You will admit that some of our lessons
we learn from observation. This being the
case let us just notice the little one who is
taking his first lesson. His wants are
supplied when they are made known, and
sometimes it requires patience and fortitude
to wait for the care of the parent; and at
other times energy and force of character
are in need to save him when in danger;
and again caution and care, for we are told
that fire and water are good servants but
bad masters; then to be victorious we need
caution and care to become acquainted or
master of the elements. This is a very im-
portant lesson. So become acquainted
with each; both fire and water.
	Thus in childhood we begin to develop
the attributes of God our Father when we
obtain intelligence upon subjects of this
kind. But remember this is only a few of
the many qualities called into action as we


[Column 1]
advance in years, and in many instances it
affords us pleasure to learn the lessons,
especially when we are successful. In this
way are we not forming a character by lov-
ing intelligence on those subjects? We feel
it to be an enjoyment when our path, is
smooth aud no disappointment or vexation.
Yet we are not tested until we meet the
opposite; then the question arises, shall we
become despondent and discouraged because
our foot slipped and we had a fall, or shall
we have courage and try again. This will
try our energy and force of character in one
instance, and perhaps in another it may re-
quire patience aud fortitude until the storm
is passed, always hopeful in as much as we
can see that things might have been worse.
A feeling of thankfulness should be ours,
with courage to try again.
We find when contemplating the sub-
ject that we begin to form our character in
our youth, which, by proper care and
attention, we greatly enjoy for I believe the
human family are all lovers of intelligence,
and when governed by pure principles al-
ways, the result is true happiness. Yet
there is an opposite to show the contrast.
This seems neccesary that the good may be
properly appreciated.
But when the bad qualities predominate,
then we feel the need of a captain at the
helm to guide the ship, (if I may use that
term) to take us safely into port or our
heaven of rest. Now I would ask did not
our Father foresee this when he sent His
Son to earth to teach us this all important
lesson?
	Do you ask where this lesson is to form
our, character by? I will answer in the
5th, 6th, and 7th chapters of St. Mathews
called Christ’s sermon on the mount. Not,
only there but also in the Epistles of St.
Peter, St. James and St. John, besides those
of St. Paul.
	We find when we observe and practice
the lessons given by these ancient worthies,
our minds are enlightened by that good spirit
which our Savior promises to all who ob-
serve and obey the laws He gave; for he
said “In vain ye cry unto me Lord Lord
and do not the things that I say,”
	By observing these laws we become ac-
quainted with His character, and will feel
at home in His presence when He comes in
the clouds of heaven. My body, no doubt,
will be mouldering back to dust, but my
spirit will not be there. Ah no! St Paul
tells us “That which thou sowest is not
quickened except it die.” We know while
the wheat is in the ground a sprout shoots
up bearing more grain than the seed in the
ground. St. Peter in the 30th chapter, 17th
verse, says “Jesus was put to death in the
flesh, but quickened by the spirit by which
he went and preached to those who died
in the flood.” By this we see this quick-
ening power is felt in all humanity as well
as in vegetation. What a grand idea to
think of!
	This lesson was taught to St. Peter by
our Savior after His resurrection from the
dead, as you will read in his first Epistle
1st chapter 30th verse “According to His
abundant mercy He hath begotten us again
unto a lively hope by the resurrection of
Jesus Christ from the dead.” And in the
4th verse he says, ‘‘To an inheritance in-
corruptible, undefiled and that fadeth not
away reserved in heaven for you.” In
this chapter we learn how lively a hope he
has after seeing Jesus in his resurrected
form, and are told by him where he was

[Column 2]
and what he was doing the three days his-
body was in the tomb.
	The instruction given in this chapter is
very interesting and encouraging. In the
5th verse he speaks of the power of God un-
to salvation through faith ; and again in
the 7th verse he says “The trial of your
faith being much more precious than gold,
that perisheth not though it be tried by fire.”
And again in the 13th verse he says, “Gird
the loins of your mind, be sober and hope
to the end for the grace that is to be brought
you by the revelation of Jesus Christ,
as obedient children etc.
	He thus encourages love, saying in the
22nd verse “Seeing ye have purified your
souls in obeying the truth through the
spirit, with unfeigned love for the brethren
see that ye love one another with a pure
heart fervently etc.”
	The Apostle James speaks of love, pure
love etc. Not only so but only think in
the 1st chapter 2nd verse he says “My
brethren count it all joy when you fall into
divers temptations, knowing this, that the
trying of your faith worketh patience. But
let patience have her perfect work, that ye
may be perfect, wanting nothing.”
	Then speaks of wisdom saying “If one
of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God
who giveth to all men liberally and up-
braideth not, and it shall be given him.’
This, you remember, Joseph Smith our
Prophet read and resolved to follow; and
behold the consequence which followed,
while at prayer making his request of God.
But please read the 6th and 7th verses
which say “Let him ask in faith nothing
wavering; for he that wavereth is like a
wave of the sea, driven by the wind and
tossed.” He also says that a double
minded man is unstable in all his ways.
Now let us reflect. Can We observe all
these rules or laws, as you may choose to
call them. If we can do that, will we not
obtain a character we could not get without
this experience? But this problem is to
solve. Can we do it as it is here given?
I firmly believe that with the spirit our
Father gives to those who love Him, we
can do it: without it we could not. Let us
then try to be fit temples for the good spirit
to dwell in, nothing doubting, that His
Spirit will help us to do all that is necessary
to be done, is the faith of,
