LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of meeting held in Fourteenth
Ward Assembly Hall, Feb. 8, 1896, Presi-
dent M. I. Horne presiding. Opened by
singing, "O, Jesus the Giver.” Prayer by
Counselor E. Webb. Singing, “We thank
thee O, God for a Prophet.” Minutes of
last meeting read and accepted. President
Horne,‘‘I hope the Spirit will prompt you
to speak one after another,” Said she had


[Column 1]
thought during the last week, that the sis-
ters should humble themselves and pray for
our young people. We want every en-
nobling virtue taught here in Zion. Urged
the sisters to visit the Legislature, and show
them that we appreciate their labors in our
behalf. “I have been astonished to hear
such falsehoods as have been set afloat.
Judging each other, and many other things.
Have we any right to judge each other?
Did not the Savior say, ‘Judge not that ye
be riot judged?’’ Spoke of her recent
Patriarchal blessing, in which she said, she
was told that the Erring One would hurl
his shaft at her.Which had surely come to
pass. Prayed that the Spirit might rest in
great power on the sisters.
	Sister Barnes bore her testimony and
made a few remarks, also said “I always
thought the Lord chastised those whom he
loved. I often wonder why I had to bear
so much,” but felt assured that the Lord
loved her.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson, said the time
was so precious. The counsel of Sister
Horne was good. “I pray God to hasten
the day when righteousness will prevail
over all the earth. Our children are too
much indulged; let us be honest and truthful.
Let us examine our own souls, and see if
we speak against the Lord’s anointed.
Who are the Lord’s anointed? It is not
only the Priesthood but every one who has
been anointed.”
	A sister in the congregation said her hus-
band was on a mission and she must be
careful, she felt to stand firm to conviction.
She knew the Gospel was true. Prayed for
strength to stand fast in the same.
	Sister Hanhah Conklin bore her testimony,
and spoke of the healing power that is
among us.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde spoke of some
bills before the Legislature, and their inter-
est in the cause of women. “There is a bill
before that body now which will effect our
silk interest, and I hope some of the sisters
will make it a business to attend some of
the sessions.”
	Sister Rollinson, spoke of being healed
by the power of God.
	Counselor Clara Cannon, glad to hear the
good instructions given here to day by the
many testimonies that are given, we can
see that the power of God is with us as
much as ever it was. Spoke of her little
daughter being healed. “It is necessary to
teach our children faith, I feel strengthened
by the testimonies borne. Let us cultivate
the spiritual gifts more.”
	Sister J. C. Howe. Teach the children
to be obedient, and that they must make
sacrifices. Our Savior taught his disciples,
and told them to teach the multitude, how
they must pray continually to escape Satan.
Let us sustain and build up the church and
kingdom of God I want to encourage the
sisters to bear testimony. Spoke of a man
who had passed from earth, who was
not among the saints, but among the hon-
orable men of the earth. Spoke of those
who died without the Gospel and were
among the honorable men of the earth.
Sister Lawson spoke of prayer, as mani-
fested in her own home, and acknowledged
the goodness of God to her. Several other
sisters bore testimony to the healing power
in the church and related experiences.
	Sister Sarah Phelps always felt glad to
bear testimony of the truth of this work.
Spoke of a dream she had concerning an
angel passing through the streets of this

[Column 2]
city, who said that he took notes and knew
each family.
	President Horne made closing remarks
Meeting adjournd for two weeks. Sing
ing Doxology. Benediction Lydia D.
Alder.
	L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


