EDITORLIAL NOTES

	ON Monday April 13th, at a regular
meeting of the Reaper’s Club, Miss Sarah
J. Elliott of Moab, Grand County, (and for-
merly of New York City) entertained the
Club with an extremely interesting account
of the Red Cross Society, and of its Nation-
al President in this country, Miss Clara
Barton, who is now in Turkey whither she
went with relief stores for the persecuted
and afflicted Armenians. Miss Elliott was
with Miss Barton at Johnstown after the
terrible catastrophe there, working for the
sufferers. She is a very talented woman,
wonderfully gifted with language, easy and


graceful in her manner, has a charming
presence, and is gifted with a musical voice;
altogether her address was most pleasing
and instructive, and was greatly appreciated
by all who had the opportunity of listening.
	THE General Conference of the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints which
has just recently closed, was a very impor-
tant one, and was largely attended from all
the adjacent Stakes of Zion. President
Wilford Woodruff spoke several times duing
the three days sessions, and his voice was
particularly clear, and he could be heard in
all parts of the large Tabernacle, as well as
any of the younger brethren and much
better than some of them. President Wood
ruff is undoubtedly the most wonderful
man of his age in this country; though he
i now in his ninetieth year—he is in
possession of a goodly degree of health and
streugth and seems likely to continue so for
years to come. The whole tenor of the
preaching during the Conference was that
there should be greater union and obedience
to the laws and commandments of the
Church. On the last afternoon a Manifesto
was read and voted upon by the congrega-
tion assembled, which set forth very clearly
the duties and requirements of the Church
officers and members, and what kind of
people the Latter-day Saints should be in
order to obtain the blessings promised to
them, and that they might fulfill what was
expected of them in building up Zion. All
those who spoke seemed inspired with the
spirit of their calling, to teach and instruct
the people in the ways of the Lord.


