CEDAR CITY W. S. A.

	ENCLOSED please find Minutes of Anni-
versary Meeting of W. S. A., held in Cedar
City Mar. 18th, 1896. The meeting was
held in the Tabernacle at 7.30 p. m.
	Opened by singing “The Battle Hymn of
the Republic.” Prayer was offered by
Mrs. Watson. The song entitled “Colum-
bia’s Daughter" was sung by the members.
	County President E. C. Watson made
opening remarks which were very interest-
ing; she said that as this was the first
anniversary of this auxiliary branch, she
could see that we had made vast improve-
ment, and judging from the vast congrega-
tion present, allayed much prejudice. She
urged them not to disband, but to keep on
in the good work. She said that in the
augmentation of their liberty women had
not neglected their home duties, but that
they had become better fitted to perform
them.
	This was followed by a song and chorus
entitled "Utah the Gem of the Union,”
which was beautifully rendered by Miss
Maud Lunt.
	“The New Star” was read by Mrs W. J.
McBurney which contained choice contribu-
tions from the members. A guitar duet
was beautifully rendered by Mrs. Joyce
Palmer and Miss Kate Palmer. Next was
a recitation entitled “Women and Wine”
by President Charlotte Walker.
	This was followed by a select reading
“Twelve Reasons why a Woman should
Vote” by Mrs. Rose Lunt.
	A ten minutes speech was given by Mrs.
John Parry, who handled the subject of
Equal Suffrage in an able manner. Mrs.
Florence Webster rendered the vocal solo
Longfellow’s “Rainy Day’ in excellent
style. A highly interesting essay on the
“Topics of the Day” was read by Mrs.
Sarah Chatterley. This was followed by
a solo and chorus “Equal Rights Banner”
by Mrs. V. Uric. County President E. C.
Watson earnestly solicited a full attendance
next meeting as they wished to elect new
officers. Benediction by Bishop William
Corey.
	Minutes of W. S. A. held in Cedar City,
March 23, 1896, 
	Meeting called to order by President C.
Walker. A song entitled “The Battle
Hymn of the Republic” was then sung.
	Prayer was then offered by Mr. John V.
Adams. “Columbia’s Daughters” was 
then sung. A few remarks were then
made by President Charlotte Walker. She
spoke of the good done by the association. 
	She was followed by County President E.
C.Watson, who spoke of the vast improve- 
ment of the association.
	Officers were then nominated. Mrs.
Charlotte Walker was re-elected President.
Miss Sadie Wilkinson was chosen as Vice-
President, and Mrs. Caroline Ahlstrom as
Second Vice-Pres. Miss Maggie Stewart


was elected as Secretary and Treasurer.
	An Executive Committee of five was
elected.
	Closing remarks were made by County
President, after which several new members
added their names to the list.
	MAGGIE STEWART, Sec.
	CHARLOTTE WALKER, Pres.
