OBITUARIES.

	To the memory of our beloved sister Sophia
Hansen, who died at American Fork Jan. 18, 1896.
	Karen Sophia Hansen was born June 26. 1841
in Denmark. Joined the Church of Jesus Christ of 
Latter-day Saints when a child. Emigrated to
Utah 1856, crossing the plains with ox teams.
Joined the Relief Society in its early days.


[Column 1]
	She was the mother of seven children, three of
whom died in their infancy. She was an active
member of the Relief Society, having filled the
office of teacher for 15 years.
	Whereas it has pleased our Heavenly Father to
take away our beloved sister to a higher sphere,
therefore, be it 
	Resolved that we, the members of the Relief
Society do esteem her faithfulness and diligence,
and we express an earnest hope that this great
bereavement may be over-ruled for good and,
	Resolved that we tender our sympathy to the
bereaved husband and children who are deprived
of the care of the beloved mother.
	Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the family also that it be published in the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT, and one be entered on the
records of the Society.
ELLEN D. CLARKE 		}
EMMA FEATHERSTONE,	} COMMITTEE.
CHARLOTTE SHELLEY. 	}
	SISTER SUSANNAH M. MORTENSEN was born in
Brigham City, May 12th, 1857. Died January 29th
1896, after an illness of one month. She was a
faithful worker in the different associations from
her childhood, having held responsible positions
in the Sunday School and Primary Association. At
the time of her death she held the position of
teacher and treasurer of the Relief Society, Coun-
selor to the President of the Scandinavian Society
of Brigham City, and also one of the aids in the
Primary Association.
	Sister Mortensen was beloved by ail who knew
her; she was a friend to the poor, ever ready to
minister to their wants in any possible way. It
was a pleasure to visit her home for all was peace
and love. For several years previous to the death
of her father, she lived with him. She was untiring
in her care and devotion, sacrificing much for his
comfort. She leaves a husband and three child-
ren besides a host of relatives and friends to
mourn her departure.
	Since God in his infinite wisdom and mercy has
seen fit to remove to another sphere of action, our
respected and beloved sister, Susannah M. Mor-
tensen,
	We her co-laborers desire to express our
appreciation of her virtues and the great loss we
have sustained. She was a dutiful daughter, a
devoted wife, a wise mother; and filled all the
different positions to which she was called in an
exemplary manner.
	Therefore be it resolved that we tender our
sincere sympathy to her bereaved family.
	Resolved that her memory shall ever be held
in loving remembrance by her fellow laborers.
Resolved that a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon record in the Second Ward Relief
Society, a copy sent to the Woman’s Exponent
and a copy sent to her family.
	CHARLOTTE BODEN, President
	ROXEY L. BLACKBURN, Sec.
	LUNA SQUIRS			}
	ALICE N. ROSENBAUM,	} Committee.

	DIED at Lyman, Fremont Co, Idaho. March
15th, 1896, after an illness of five days.
	Brighamina Christenson, beloved wife of
Neils Christenson, and daughter of Mary Ann
and Christen Christenson, born in Denmark,
Jan. 13, 1867, came to Utah 1878, married Jan. 22,
1885, in the Logan Temple. She was an
exemplary woman, patient, loving and kind, be-
ing a teacher in the Relief Society, and Second
counselor in the Y. L. M. I. A. which callings she 
	honorably fulfilled.
She lived a pure life and died in full fellow-
ship and faith, hoping to have a glorious ressurec-
tion. 

