SUFFRAGE.

Editor Exponent:
	THE Suffrage Society of this place is still
in a flourishing condition, most interesting
and instructive meetings being held month-
ly which are well attended, and now that
the main object in the organization of the
society has been obtained, the officers ex-
pect to map out a systematic educational
course to be pursued the following year.
	A Grand Wedding reception was given
under the auspices of the society on the
22nd ult., the honored parties being Joseph
F. McGregor and Isabella Durham, both
members of the society, who were married
at Manti on the 14 ult.The Seminary
Rooms were procured and decorated in
yellow and white, the decorations being
most artistic aiid tasteful. Bunting, appro-
priate mottoes and pictures covered the
walls. One large motto painted especially
for the occasion on yellow cloth, bore the
inscription, “Joy and Peace” while in the
center was a large bell representing the
wedding bell. Under this motto were
arranged seats for the bride and groom and
their parents. At the appointed hour, the
people having assembled in the north-east
rooms, the bride and groom introduced each
one separately into the south room, con-
gratulations and blessings being showered
upon the young couple in the mean time.
	An orchestra discoursed sweet music all
this time which added to the pleasure of the
occasion, and after all were comfortably
seated a very interesting program was
carried out, consisting of songs instrument-
al music, speeches sentiments etc. The roll
of the society was called, the majority re-
sponding with appropriate and well chosen
sentiments. At the close of these exercises
a delicious repast served in yellow and
white was partaken of, and apparently en-
joyed by all. The reception was a grand
success from beginning to end, for which
much credit is due to our worthy president
Mrs. E. Crane Watson, who with her aids
spared no means nor labor to make the
affair a success. A party was given in the
evening and thus closed a day long to be
remembered by our society. The groom
Joseph F. McGregor, starts for the South-
ern States next month, there to perform a
mission. We all wish him ‘‘God Speed.”
JULIA LYMAN.
Parowan March, 14, 1896.


