CONTENTS:
	The Art Of Raising Silk Worms—Margaret A.
Caine. Progress Of Women—Sarah Boyer.
Cedar City W. S. A. A Golden Wedding—F. E.
S. R. S. Report. Women Voters. Relief So-
ciety Conference—E. B. Wells. Mrs. Lillie R.
Pardee. Obituaries. In Memoriam. The
Farmer—M. E. K.
Editorial:—Passing Events. Minerva White
Snow. Editorial Notes.
Poetry: — The Utah Press Club. — Orielle.
Curtis. Leona.


[Column 1]
THE UTAH PRESS CLUB.
"Hic ordo, culpa careto, caeteris specimen esto."
As crystal clear as stainless glass,
	Bandusia’s laughing fount may play, 
And Aganippe’s waters pass
	From Stygian gloom to jocund day
More pure than sweet Castalia’s dews 
	The sparkling springs of Utah rise,
More bright than fountain’s rainbow hues,
	’Neath Italy’s enchanted skies.
If then, Pierian spring could fire
	The Grecian poet’s classic line,
"Far-sounding Aufidus” inspire
	The Sabine lyrist’s muse divine,
Much more should Utah’s children feel
	The fervid ray, the kindling glow,
When dawns’s light-sandaled feet reveal ,
	The day-spring o’er her peaks of snow.
And shall we say our mountains lack
	The storied eloquence of climes,
Where Romance throws its aureole back
	O’er half-seen, legendary times? .
And must our Western song be still,
	Because the Dryads, loved of yore, .
The Nymphs of forest, stream and hill,
	Drink of the mountain dew no more?
Oh, classic land of oil and wine!
	Embalm in song your glorious Past,
For Marathon fresh garlands twine,
	'Tis only buried fame, at last.
Let painters seek the pictured halls,
	Where Art o’er Rome’s dead grandeur reigns,
The light through tinted windows falls,
	To tell of wrong, and blood, and chains,
What though no Jupiter nor Zeus
	Holds revel on our Wahsatch heights?
Is Beauty dead? Shall we refuse
	A song for Truth and human rights?
What though no awful hero shades 
	Their muffled outlines dimly show?
The mantled myth Earth’s dawn pervades;
	More grandly clear is noon-tide’s glow.
They truly err, who falsely think
	That Helicon alone inspires
When quaffed o’er Falsehood’s moss grown brink
	Or warmed by Wars unhallowed fires,
Fair Fancy better loves the springs
	That gush from Truth’s exhaustless well,
To meet the light on rapturous wings, 
	And, Nature’s seer, her secrets tell.
[-]ear sisters of the Press Club, ours
	The heritage of rock and hill;
Here may we test our varying powers,
	Here teach our pens a nicer skill,

[Column 2]
Believe me, there is not one peak
	Whose wreath of clouds the west winds stir,
But has a voice sublime to speak,
	And waits for its interpreter.
For this is Nature’s secret crypt
	In flaming, red-hot forges wrought;
And Titan hands these valleys dipped,
	Responsive to the Master’s thought:
Here, in Cyclopean work-shops, slaved
	Blind forces, welding seam and joint;
These cliffs are tablet-leaves, engraved
	With iron pen and diamond point.
We know proud Albion’s hedge-rows green,
	Her primrose, lark and daffodil,
Familiar each New England scene, 	Her Merrimac and haunted mill:
We read the Ballads of the Farm,
	Of camp and mine, the pathos wild!
But who has sung of Utah’s charm,
	With gorge and canon deep defiled?
Nor fail we incident sublime,
	Heroic exploits, brave and bold:
Turn back the pictured book of time,
	And rank with, its achievements old,
The tale these earliest pifgrims tell
	Of the primeval solitude:—
The Salt Lake rolled with heavy swell,
	And wild birds screamed their welcome rude.
If this were all, how light our toil
	To question Nature’s sylvan ways,
And weave in lyric lines the spoil
	Of star lit nights and golden days
With retrospective glance, to climb
	The toil-won pinnacles of yore,
And place in filagree of rhyme
	The names of heroes gone before.
But these are times of keen unrest,
	When thought is rent with earth-quake throes:
Forboding, with tumultuous breast,
	The world Fate’s trembling foot-fall knows;
And clang of arms is in the air,
	And words with angry threatening rife;
The winds discordant murmurs bear;
	Earth, quivering, feels impending strife.
Columbia, in whose coronet,
	Our Utah shines, the latest star,
Watches, in far horizon yet,
	The gathering thunder-clouds of war:
Watches, but waits, her cities fair.
	Unguarded by the swelling sea—
Hope of the world, arise, make bare
	The sword that strikes for liberty!
That nation best secures repose
	That sees her mail-sheathed fleet increase;
Behind the yawning cannon grows
	The sweet, white-hearted flower of peace—
But there are better, nobler fields,
	Where heroes bloodless conquest gain,
Where Wrong to Right resistless yields,
	And errors changeful mask is vain.
These conquests spur our wakening powers:
	Problems, the nation’s.life that stir
And thrill the questioning world, are ours:
	Truth loves an ardent worshiper,
Sisters, too long our loitering hands.
	Frail baubles from their work delay,
As children, on the wet sea-sands
	Gather their tinted shells in play.

[Column 3]
We need no Cloelia, brave and strong,
	To breast the stream of public thought:.
Unquestioned heirs, to us belong;
	The rights by patriot Fathers bought 
With better fates, Hypatia now
	Her eager throng of listeners sees,
And here, again, with light-crowned brow, 
	Aspasia counsels Pericles.
Be brave: be strong for truth and right: 	The long, dark night is almost gone:
Behind the mists that dim the sight,
	Behold a brighter era dawn!
Though now fierce lightening’s lurid glare
	Shows phantom shapes of doubt and fear;
Our stars shall shine in clearer air,
	With woman man’s acknowledged peer.
