THE CALIFORNIA CAMPAIGN.
	AT the general election next November,
the men of California will have the oppor-
tunity to vote upon an Amendment to the
State Constitution, which, if carried, will
give suffrage to the women on equal terms
with the men. The resolution to submit
this amendment to the voters was passed by
both Houses of the Legislature in March,
1895, and signed by the Governor. 
	A joint Campaign Committee composed
of the officers of the State Suffrage Associa-
tion and the Amendment Campaign As-
sociation, are turning all their energies to
the end that the Golden State may emerge
from that election a republic in fact as well
as in name. Committees for local and
State Press Work, Conventions, Petitions,
Finance, etc., are being formed, and the
work goes merrily on. The hearty respons-
es from the various counties to all the plans
of work launched by the Joint Campaign
Committee are so enthusiastic, and the
sympathies so manifestly enlisted in all
parts of the State, that all the Committee
feel very much encouraged.
	Under Dr. Elizabeth Sargent the petition
work is being pushed all over the State,
some four hundred books being in circula-
tion. She is also in charge of the literary
committee, and under her compilation a
newleaflet, ‘‘Woman Suffrage in Practice,”
has just been published and promises to do
a great work of enlightenment regarding
the actual workings of woman suffrage. 
	Lucy E. Anthony has been appointed
chairman of the Committee on Conventions.
The series of county conventions is to open
in the southern part of the State at San
Diego, April 6 and 7. Each is to hold dur-
ing two days, and a second one will open
simultaneously with the closing date of the
first in an adjoining county seat, with a
second manager, and with other speakers.
Miss Mary Hay and Harriet May Mills are to
be the managers, and Rev. Anna Shaw and
Elizabeth U. Yates the speakers. They
will gradually migrate toward the north
and middle of the State, arriving in the
vicinity of San Francisco about May, when
the great Woman's Congress of the Pacific
Slope will convene and discuss for one
week, three sessions daily, seventy address-
es in all, “Woman in Government,” in all
its bearings. This subject was chosen on
account of the growing interest manifested
in it by both men and women. As the
question of woman’s enfranchisement will
come before the voters at the November
election, and California will be called upon
to decide whether women shall share in the
rights and duties of government, there will
be a full exposition of the subject in all its
phases.
	Susan B. Anthony and Rev. Anna H.
Shaw our president and vice-president-at-
large, will both take part, the former
speaking on “Analysis of Government,”
and Rev. Anna Shaw on “Woman as She
is Said to Be and Woman as She Is.
	ELLEN C. SARGENT,
President California W. S. A.


