IN MEMORIAM.

WIMLEY—At the residence of Jessie W. Fox,
in the Fourteenth Ward of this city, at 5. 45 p. m.
Jan. 17,1896, of general debility, alter a lingering
illness of less than two months. Sister Amanda
Melviria Wimley, daughter of Samuel and Eliza-
beth Brooks Baker, of Pennsylvania.
	Sister Wimley was born in Philadelphia, Pa.,
July 3,1820, and was in her 76th year at the time
of her death. She embraced the Gospel under
tne instructions and ministrations of the prophet
Joseph Smith, in Philadelphia, Pa, at an early day.
She was married to Mr. Wm. Wimley in Phila-
delphia and bore to him a son and a daughter;
the latter survives her mother and resides at their
old home. Mr. Wimley, finding his wife to be a
firm adherent to the faith, and that she could not
be happy away from the Saints, furnished her
means in the spring of 1870, and she came to this
city, where she has resided ever since. She for-
sook a home of luxury and joined her destiny
with this people. She has ever been true to the
principles she espoused. Numbers of Elders can
testify of her hospitality, while all the Saints who
knew her cannot fail to revere her memory.

ANOTHER noble life is spent,
	Another life.of sacrifice.
A life that knew what sorrow meant,
	Yet walked in ways of righteousness. 
Who can tell of the lonely years
	Through which she	passed with patient trust:
Ah! Who can tell her hopes and fears?
	And yet we know that God is just.
But we can tell that grief, and pain
	Did fit her for her after life;
And too we know hopes are not vain
	For she has gone where hopes are rife.
Where faith and hope, and love reach out
	To gather all within the fold
Until each heart is linked about,
	With bands more pure than purest gold. -
Rest, noble spirit, rest be thine,
	Until thy soul is satisfied
And then come forth in joy divine
	To dwell with beings sanctified.
Then thou shalt stand like Joseph's sheaf 
	To which his brothers all did bend;
Where none shall question thy belief,
	And joys supernal never end.
