CONFERENCE OF THE N. A. W. S. A.

	(Continued)
REMARKS BY MRS. EMMA J. MCVICKER
	Delivered at the Assembly Hall, May 14,
1895.
Ladies and Gentlemen:
	I wish to say a few words to show why I
am in favor of woman's suffrage. I have
had a little experience in voting; have voted
twice in this Territory. On the first occas-
ion there was quite a celebration on the
part of nature as there was an earthquake
that evening. However my mind was not
at all disturbed as I did not experience any 
more difficulty in going to the polls to vote
than in going to the Post Office or Bank, or
in transacting any other business which
comes within the province of woman. My
conversion to woman’s suffrage was brought
about by my connection with charity
and reform work. I find that most of the
reform work in the world is carried on by
women, as men do not seem to have faith


[Column 1]
sufficient to undertake such things, and so
it devolves upon women to do the work of
reform.
	A Missionary of Alaska tells the story of
a very difficult mission that he wished to
undertake. He went to the Secretaries of
all the religious denominations in New
York, asking them to undertake the work,
and they all refused, saying that the work
was too difficult to undertake. He then
went to the Woman’s Board of the Presby-
terian Church, and they gladly assumed the
care of the Mission. Vast sums of money
are being entrusted to the care and manage-
ment of women in missionary work. They
have proved themselves honest in all their
relations, so proving their capacity to un-
dertake such matters in relation to Govern-
ment. I do not think we should have had
the occasion for the disgraceful exposures
that have been connected with our city and
county building, if the women had been on
the Board. Mrs. Kimball says that we
certainly should have had an elevator in
the building if the women had anything to
do with it. Men are so debased in their
ideas from their associations in many re-
spects, they cannot look at things from the
same standpoint as the women do when it
comes to questions of reform. For instance:
One of the members of our City Council
said that the more saloons we had in the
city, the better it was for the city. Now
no woman would have uttered such a senti-
ment as that. Then in one political cam-
paign, inducements were held out to the
lowest element of society that they might
have free scope if they would only vote for
a certain party. I do not think that will
happen when women get into politics. I
have heard that it is common talk on the
streets that the reason the baser element of
society is opposed to woman’s suffrage, is
that it fears that it will be driven out of
town.
	MRS. MILLARD OF WEBER COUNTY
Ladies and Gentlemen:
	I did not come to Salt Lake with any in-
tention of speaking—I simply represent
Weber County in the absence of our Presi.
dent, who is ill and could not come, so I
am not at all prepared to address you.
	I joined the Association when it was
first organized eight years ago. Nine
years ago, when I first came to Ogden,
women voted. The following year suffrage
was taken from us, so we organized the
Woman’s Suffrage Association, and with
that I have been identified ever since. Our
membership list of paid-up members is 150,
but we have 250 enrolled on our books.
I think you will pardon me when I say we
have 250 members in Weber County and
we have worked very hard.
	It was stated in the Constitutional Con-
vention that the first gun that was fired for
suffrage came from Weber County, the first
petition came from there, and we are here
now to ratify what our members have done
for us. Iam glad to have Miss Anthony
and Miss Shaw with us. Ogden is to enter-
tain them to-morrow, and expects to show
them as much courtesy, respect and glory
as that city possibly can. I thank you.
(Applause.)
	MRS. CLARK OF DAVIS COUNTY
Ladies and Gentlemen:
	I can say that I am pleased indeed to
be numbered among those who are here to-
day to welcome to our Territory soon to be
a state, our pioneer general and her cour-

[Column 2]
teous co-worker, a general of the Revolu-
tionary army of peace. She sits here to-
day the peaceful general of a peaceful revo-
lution. Why? Because we would not lose
one soul for our cause, we would sooner re-
main disfranchised forever than to pay the
price of our liberty with the loss of one hu-
man oul; that is why we call it a peace-
ful army with these brave generals here to
lead us. Like the light of the sun which is
reflected on the tops of the Rocky Moun-
tains, is the beacon light shining from the
two bright stars of the west, and over the
tops of these mountains is another star ris-
ing and the sun in all its splendor will shine
o’er the Rockies restoring lost freedom to
Utah. (Applause.)
	This light is shining into Idaho, into
Oregon, into Nevada and California, also
New York as Miss Anthony told us yester
day; and we must trust the ships that are
sailing toward the light will not be wrecked
on the shoals, but will come safely into the
harbor of equal suffrage.
	Mrs. Clara Colby who many of you are ac-
quainted with by reading her paper, says
that a woman’s love and a wife’s devotion
has been the great pride and glory of all the
world. Poets have sung about it, orators
have exhausted their eloquence upon it,
history has painted it in all its glowing
colors yet some souls seem to think that
those qualities are diminished by legislative
enactment. Women’s sphere is as varied as
the hues of water and that always depends on
the vessel which holds it; sometimes it is like
a little stream bubbling up from some foun-
tain, sometimes like a little brook and again
as a mighty river bearing upon its bosom
the destinies of nations, and when the last
barrier to woman is removed and the ballot
is placed in her hands, then will she surely
be a help-mate to man.
	You are all aware that the Statehood
Banquet of Utah has been prepared and
every loyal citizen will be there waiting the
bridegroom he is not to be alone, but lean-
ing upon his arm will be a beautiful and
blushing bride clothed in the robs of equalty
carryin in her right hand the banner of jus-
tic and beneath the orange blossoms which
wreathe her noble brow will sparkle the
word ‘‘Liberty.” (Applause.)


