SARAH JANE RICHARDS PERKINS
SARAH JANE RICHARDS PERKINS was born in
Carmarthan, Carmarthanshire South Wales, Jan-
uary 13th, 1833, was baptized by Benjamin Jones 
in the year 1848, emigrated to America, in 1850 
crossed the plains to Utah in 1852, was married to
William L. Perkins Oct. 27th, 1853, was the
mother of ten children of whom there are eight
living; she has thirty-five grand-children and one
great grand child.
	Resolutions of respect adopted by the officers
and members of the Pleasant Green Relief
Society, to the memory of our beloved Sarah
Jane Perkins who departed this life Feb. 15th,
1896 at 9 a. m. at Pleasant Green of pneumonia.
	Whereas our Heavenly Father in his wisdom has seen fit to take from our midst our beloved Sister Sarah Jane Perkins.
	Be it resolved that while we bow in humble
submission to the will of him who doeth all
things well--
	We do recognize in her death the severe loss of
a faithful energetic and efficient teacher in our
society a true friend to the needy a comforter in
the hour of trouble, a devoted wife and mother
and a true Latter-day Saint, we also recognize in
her faithful labors and devotion to the cause of
Zion, an example worthy of the emulation of
each member of our society.
	Resolved that we sincerely sympathize with her
bereaved husband William L. Perkins her
children and friends in the loss of a faithful wife,
a loving mother and sincere friend.

[Column 2]
  	Also that these resolutions be placed upon the
record of the Pleasant Green Relief Society and
be published in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and
that a copy be sent to the family of our departed
sister.

Dear, true sister, though her pathway,
	Has been strewn with many a thorn,
She has nobly won the victory
	To her rest she now has gone.

The love of God within her heart,
	Made all her duties light.
Now in far happier scenes she dwells,
	And walks in robes of white.

With those, who like her, kept the faith,
	The gospel light restored,
Having gained the victory over death,
	Through Jesus Christ our Lord.

Oh happy thought! we too, may gain,
	The presence of our God,
If we by strict obedience here,
	"Hold fast the iron rod."

