MINERVA WHITE SNOW.

	THE news of the unexpected demise of
Sister Minerva White Snow, wife of Apos-
tle Erastus Snow, was quite a shock to
many of her friends and to her relatives in
this City. Sister Snow died April 1, 1896,
at Manti, where she has been living for
several years past, having been called there
at the time of the dedication of the Manti
Temple, and has been laboring therein al-
most continuously. 
	Sister Snow was greatly beloved for her
many excellent qualities, which endeared
her to all those with whom she was asso-
ciated. Faithful and true in every depart-
ment of life, a loving wife, an affectionate
mother, a sympathetic friend, a wise coun-
selor, full of integrity and abounding in
faith and good works, amiable, tender, con-
siderate of the feelings of others and full of
charity. Sister Snow was one among the
first women to enter into the order of plural
marriage, and had the courage of her
convictions through all the trials and perse-
cutions the Saints have had to endure in
sustaining the principle.
	Born and reared in New England of Puri-
tan forefathers, she possessed the true char-
acteristics and habits that fitted her to be-
come a woman of influence in the best
sense; always gracious and winning, hum-
ble as a child, teaching by example lessons
of patience and gentleness.
	Sister Snow has filled many honorable
positions of usefulness; she was the first
Stake President of the Relief Society of St.
George Stake, and filled the place for sever-
al years, until Brother Snow was called to
Mexico. There she was unceasing in her
labors of love and after their return to this
City, she was chosen by Sister M. Isabella
Horne to fill the vacancy caused by the
death of Sister Phoebe W. Woodruff in the
General Retrenchment Association. After
having been appointed to labor in the Manti
Temple, she was chosen by Sister Mary A.
P. Hyde as her Counselor in the Relief
Society of the Sanpete Stake of Zion, and
also to act as an aid in the Y. L. M. I. A.
of that Stake. In every position and calling
she labored diligently to do good and to in-
spire others with the same noble desires and
aspirations. She has gone to her rest fully
prepared, although death was to her so un-
expected. She remarked that it was only
a cold, she would soon be better; in a note
addressed to the writer on March 30th, she
spoke of being sick with a cold, and in less
than forty-eight hours after her spirit had
taken its flight.
	‘‘After the burden and heat of the day
	The starry calm of night,
	After the rough and toilsome way
	A sleep in the robe of white.”


