ALMIRA JOHNSON BARTON

Editor, Exponent:
	BELIEVING the short sketch I am now
penning, will be of interest to many, I send
the same to your paper for publication.
	Sister Almira Barton serenely passed


from this stage of action March 4th after
an illness of six days. Auntie Barton, as
she was familliarly called, was born Oct.
12th 1812, having reached the ripe old age
of 84 years, 4 months and 28 days. She
embraced the gospel in New York State, in
an early day. Afterwards she became a
plural wife to the Prophet Joseph Smith.
After his death she married Joseph Barton,
by whom she had five children; two died
before she reached Utah about 1858. When
she reached Parowan about 1865, another
of her little flock was called home leaving
her with two daughters, her husband did
not come with her to the valley. One of
these girls was unusually bright and pre-
possessing, and when just on the verge of
marriage Della, her mother’s favorite com-
panion and comfort, was called to join her
brothers and sisters who had gone before.
	Sister Barton’s grief was almost uncontroll-
able, for she was worse than alone as the
remaining child caused more care and anxiety
than an ordinary family who had their
reasoning faculties, but a more patient and
devoted mother never was; never complain-
ing but ever guiding and guarding her
blank-minded girl with a more than jealous
care, constantly praying that she might out-
live her child, dreading the idea of having
her sent to an asylum. Not quite two
years have waned since Almira was restored
to her mother’s little circle all now having
gone to that “Beautiful Beyond.’’ On this
occassion Auntie Barton exclaimed “Thank
God my prayers have been answered, I am
now willing to go when Father wants me.’’
Since living in Parowan Sister Barton has
never had to wonder where would her food
come from on the morrow, she has been
comfortably taken care of by the church,
and for several years has had help to do her
house work and keep her company. She
had quite a circle of elderly lady friends,
whom our bishop always told her to invite
as often as she chose and he would see that
she had the necessaries to entertain them,
she was naturally very cheerful and seemed
to enjoy life very much. She was prepar-
ing to go to the St. George Temple to work
when she was suddenly stricken with a
paralytic stroke which resulted in her death.
	She was beautifully laid away in the best
material that could be procured. Among
the speakers at the funeral services was
Aunt Paulina Lyman who had been inti-
mately acquainted with the deceased since
1841. The closing sentiments of one of the
speakers was. “May we all be as well pre-
pared to go home as was Aunt Almira
Barton,” to which many hearts responded.
Amen. 
	E. CRANE WATSON.
Parowan, March 11th 1896.


LOMDON, March 23.—Thomas Hughes,
Q. C., author of  “Tom Brown’s School
Days,” “Tom Brown at Oxford,” and the
founder of the British settlement Rugby, 
Tenn., is dead, aged 73.
	ONE of the more noteworthy articles in
the March Harper's will be “Arcadian Bee-
Ranching,” by Miss Ninetta Eames; “Jane
Hubb’s Salvation,” by Mrs. Helen Hunt-
ington, together with installments of the
serials, “On Snow-Shoes to the Barren
Grounds,” “Briseis,” “Personal Recol-
lections of Joan of Arc,” aud the “Ger-
man Struggle for Liberty.”


