FORTY-FIFTH STAR INCLUDED.
	WE take pleasure in publishing the fol-
lowing letters which will be of interest to
our readers and should be a matter of re-
cord; they were first published in the
Deseret Evening News of March 19, 1896.
	UNITED STATES SENATE,
	Washington, D. C.,
	February 25, 1896.
Venerable Sir:
To you whose life has spanned the entire

[Column 2]
history of Utah’s settlement and growth, to
this hour to you the chief representative of
her Pioneers; and to you whose hand first
raised the emblem of our sublime country
in the Salt Lake valley, I have the honor
of transmitting, by the kindness of Hon.
Joseph F. Smith, one of the two first flags
made for the War Department of the United
States, containing forty-five stars. With
all who know you, I am thankful that you
have been permitted to see the day of
Utah’s glory, that your hands can touch
and your eyes behold the beauty of this en-
sign as it now recognizes the wondrous
achievement of a devoted people, blessed by
God and animated by patriotism, in their
struggles to make of a wilderness one of
the mightiest states of the Union.
Yours affectionately, 
	FRANK J. CANNON. 
	PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF, 
	Salt Lake City, Utah.  
	Following is President Woodruff’s re-
sponse:
	Hon. Frank J. Cannon, U. S. Senate.
Washington City D. C.:
	My dear Senator.—As a Pioneer who
brought President Young in my carriage
into the Great Salt Lake Valley the first
time he saw the Salt Lake and surrounding
country; and as one who assisted in plant-
ing the American flag on this then Mexican
soil, and who assisted President Young in
laying out Salt Lake City, with its broad
streets and sidewalks in this Great Ameri-
can dry, sandy desert, and being in my
ninetieth year of age, I accept this noble flag
for and in behalf of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints (being President
of the same;) also in behalf of every citizen
of the State of Utah. The flag has been
spread to the breeze of both sea and land
for over 120 years, over the greatest free
Republican government ever established by
the God of heaven since the creation of the
world, which flag I hope the citizens of
Utah will ever maintain and make honor-
able. I feel thankful that I have lived to
see the day when this noble flag is hoisted
as an emblem and ensign to all the inhabit-
ants of Utah in the capacity of a State
government. Forty-nine years of my life
have been spent in Utah.
	Yours truly,
	WILFORD WOODRUFF. 
	The foregoing letters have been withheld
for some time because of an intimation that
the design upon which the two flags referred
to had been made might again be changed
—several propositions to that effect having
been submitted to the government authori-
ties. As stated, however, the arrangement
agreed upon has been officially confirmed.
The other flag referred to by Senator Can-
non as one of the two first made with the
Utah star, is the property of Governor H.
M. Wells.


