REPORTS FROM GRANTSVILLE. 

	ON Thursday, March 12th 1896, the
Relief Society of Tooele Stake held its
Quarterly Conferencee in the Grantsville
Meeting House. Stake President, Mary A.
Hunter and First Counselor Rhoda Lyman
conducted the meetings which were held in
the forenoon and afternoon, and were spirit-
ed and instructive.  
	Because of ill health, Second Counselor
Ellen Anderson, was unable to attend the
meetings: but at her home were very cordi-
ally entertained Sisters Zina Y. Card and
Lula Greene Richards, missionaries from
Salt Lake City. Reports from the different
branches of the Society, the annual Stake
Reports, and minutes of the last Quarterly
Conference were read by Stake Secretary
Mary A. House, which together with a
concise verbal report given by President M.
A. Hunter showed the pleasing fact that
the Tooele Stake Relief Society is prosper-
ous and fululfilling, its legitimate require-

[Column 2]
ments. At the close of the Relief Society
Conference, Sister Card met with the offi-
cers of the Young Ladies Association, and
gave some important instructions.
	In the evening the Y. L. M. I. A. held
Conference. A newly organized Stake
Board took charge of this meeting, Sister
Ann Tate having lately resigned as Presi-
dent, Naomi Gillett having been elected to
that office with Sister Susannah Dunn and
Ellen Parks as Counselors. President
Gillett read a brief journalistic report of
the labors of herself and Counselors in visit-
ing and holding meetings with various
branches of the Association, since December
last. Verbal reports were also given by
presidents of branches; besides which a
choice program was rendered by members
of the Association.
	Primary Conference was held in the fore-
noon of Friday March 13, at which Stake
President Louisa O. Hale presided, assisted
by her Counselors M. T. Atkins, and Lou-
sa Fawson.
	The first, part of the meeting was devoted
to branch and Stake reports of a very satis-
factory nature. Then followed a program
the selections and rendition of which did
great credit to both officers and members.
	At each of the meetings mentioned above,
instructions and exhortations were offered
by the visiting sisters as well as by several
who are residents of the Stake. The inter-
est of the meetings was much enhanced by
the cheering presence and encouraging
words of Bishop Wrathall of Grantsville,
Stake Superintendent of Sunday Schools,
Gustave Johnson, and other leading breth-
ren.
	The Grantsville Choir also contributed
largely to the effectiveness of the Confer-
ence, by the rendering of delightful music
and singing.
	Friday evening an appropriate finis was
given to this enjoyable time of refreshing,
in the form of “An Old Fashioned Dance,"
the proceeds to be given to the poor. At
this party a goodly number of the ladies,
(and gentlemen as well,) were dressed in
old fashioned costumes of various styles.
Several of the girls had their hair done ac-
cording to old time custom, which to some
was very becoming. Plain quadrilles and
other old fashioned dances were the order
of the evening to some extent; and the old
time spirit of sociability made all feel at
home and happy.
	One feature of progress in Grantsville is
a neat adobie hall just being completed,
which, together with the lot upon which it
stands, belongs to the Relief Society. The
brethren have generously donated the entire
work of building and finishing the hall, the
Society furnishing the material only. In
this respect at least, there are other branches
which might pattern after Grantsville and
do well.
	A visit to the Grantsville Sunday School
was very gratifying. Marked improve- 
ments are taking place in that important
organization. In the Primary department
a subdivision is contemplated, wherein a 
Kindergarten is soon to be established. 
