MRS LILLIE R. PARDEE.
   
	THE Ohio papers were proud to publish
Mrs. Pardee as Secretary of the first Sen-
ate of our our new State, and we take
pleasure in republishing the following
notice, and in expressing our own apprecia-
tion of the ability and capability of the lady
in the public positions she has so honorably
and acceptably filled. We have also a per-
sonal friendship for Mrs. Pardee; aside from
her public services she possesses many lov-
able and endearing qualities of head and
heart. Ed.
	AN OHIO GIRL IS SECRETARY OF THE 
	UTAH STATE SENATE.
“MRS. LILLIE R. PARDEE, of Salt Lake
City, who has been recently elected to the
secretaryship of the Senate of the new
State of Utah, was born in September, 1864.
She is a native of Ohio and was graduat-
ed from Buchtel College, where she received
the highest honors ever given to a graduate
of that college. Until her marriage four
years ago, she was professor of Greek and
Latin and instructor in the gymnasium of
the same college. 
	Her maiden name was Lillie R. Moore.
James D. Pardee, an attorney of Salt Lake
City is her husband, and they have a
daughter 3 years old.
	Mrs. Pardee is a type of the younger
generation of Gentile women. She was
brought into prominence during the prepar-
ation for statehood through her gifts as an
orator. She has a fine stage presence, a
rich sonorous voice of great carrying power,
which has had special training under Dr.
Curry, of the Boston school of expression.
	By reason of her earnest work in the
Woman’s Republican League, she was ap-
pointed secretary of the county committee,
and afterwards was nominated by the
county convention for a seat in the Senate
of the new state. Owing to the decision of
the Utah Supreme Court against the legal
right of women to vote at the recent elec-
tion, Mrs. Pardee voluntarily withdrew her
name from the ticket in order not to endanger
the interests of her party in the legislature.
	The president of the Senate in recom-
mending Mrs. Pardee for secretary of the
Senate, said “I recommend Mrs Pardee by
reason of her fitness for the place. I con-
sider her work in the committee rooms
fully up to the standard of any man’s’'
	In private life Mrs. Pardee is womanly
and unassuming in manner. She has un-
doubtedly a career of brilliance and useful-
ness bofore her.”


