WOMAN’S SPHERE.

	IT is often expressed by many of the 
ladies, of our fair Utah, if they could only
have the privilege of going to the polls and
casting their vote, they would show to man 

[Column 2]
kind at large that they would be able to
bring about a better state of affairs. I often
ask myself the question. Is going to the
polls all that is needed to bring this about?
And the thought comes to me that home
and self is the place to prepare ourselves to
bring a change for the better. It must be
brought about in our every day life, at our
own fireside. In our daily walk and con-
versation, and in setting a good example
before our children, and before all the
world. The eyes of the world are upon us
and if we want our condition bettered, we
must seek for wisdom and intelligence from
a pure source. If we wish to be truly
great, we must deny ourselves of the many
weak points that are so closely connected
and interwoven in our very natures. I be-
lieve of all people in the world the women
of Utah have the best opportunity of un-
derstanding what is wanted to bring about
a better state of affairs. If they will only
go the right way to obtain it, it will never
come by indulging in light and foolish con-
versation, or in loose habits. I believe
woman was created for a far nobler purpose
and loftier sphere than what she really is
today? But it can only be reached step by
step. By abstaining from everything that
is low and unlike a true and virtuous wo-
man. They are endowed by nature with
intelligence, and we can choose for our-
selves which course we will pursue. The
way is marked so plain that no one can be
mistaken. We must shun everything that
is evil. Commence by first watching our-
selves, if we want our husbands to be bet-
ter men set them the example. From the
beginning Woman has taken the lead.
	Let Woman’s grace and love combine
	To shed a luster o’er mankind,
	And kindle fires to ever burn,
	In every heart the truth to learn.
	She led the way for man to go,
	That good and evil he might know;
	By which like God he might become, 
	And live again with him at home.
	Woman may well be proud today of the 
part she acted in the beginning of her
existence. She played well her part to the
end, that man might be, and have a true
knowledge of God; so today woman must
set the example. And with few exceptions
man will follow her to a higher plane. In
my opinion man and woman must rise to-
gether. One cannot attain to anything
that is great and good without the other. I
am myself a woman; but I can never get
one step above man. I have seen women
who think they are better and know more
than their husbands and often try to make
them appear small before company,  I
always feel that it makes no difference
what our cailing or place is, if we fill that
place honorably. But when we step over
the mark we commit an error. And we
should stop right there and correct our-
selves before we go any farther. If we un-
derstood ourselves as it is our privilege to
do, we would not make so many mistakes.
And we must correct those errors in our-
selves before we undertake to teach others.
	If we ever expect to rule or govern we
must first learn to rule and govern, our-
selves, right here is work for us all if we
will but do it. Now if we will stndy for 
ourselves, and find out what is lacking,
then go to work and do it, that will bring
about a far better state of things. We will
make better wives and have kinder children.
We are told that man is the noblest work of

[Column 3]
God, if so, woman must be for she is a part
of man. Sisters, seek to live lives of
purity and virtue, that you may be useful
at home, ornaments in society and a benefit
to the human race. That will bring about
a better state of affairs. 
	SARAH B. LAYTON.
Kaysville, Feb. 21st, 1896.


