WOMEN VOTERS.

	As it will be necessary that all women
should know their political status under the
law in regard to qualifications for voting,
we thought it would be well to republish
the following article from one of the lead-
ing daily papers of this City, and we hope
the women of the state will take due
notice of the facts herein contained.—ED.
	It is estimated that there are in round
numbers fifty thousand women of voting
age in the State. But all of them are not
voters. Uncertainty as to the number of
Utah women of foreign birth and over 21
years of age, who are not yet citizens, adds
to the complexity of the political situation.
Some authorities place the number as high
as ten thousand, but, at the best, figuring
on the subject is merely guess-work, as
there are no statistics on which to base an
estimate.
	The women who are not naturalized and
therefore not electors, constitute two classes,
one being composed of those who may be
naturalized during the coming campaign,
and the other of those who must make
declarations of intention to become citizens,
and then wait two years before first citizen-
ship papers can be issued to them.
	All women of foreign nativity who are or
have been married to citizens, either native
born or naturalized, are themselves citizens,
the citizenship of the husband having had
the effect of naturalizing the wife, by virtue
of an act of Congress. All children of for-
eign birth, both male and female, who
were residents of the United States and
under 21 years of age at the time of the
naturalization of their parent, are entitled
to vote, if now 21.
	Those who arrived in the United States
before they were 18 years of age, and


whose parents have not been naturalized,
may become citizens at any time after reach-
ing the age of 21, without filing a declara-
tion of intention, provided that at the time
of applying for a certificate the applicant
has resided in this country five years.
	The women who, though of the required
age, cannot vote this year are those of 
foreign birth who are not and have not 
been married to citizens, or who have not
been naturalized by the naturalization of 
their parents, while the children were
minors; or who did not arrive in this 
country before they were 18 and five years
prior to the last date on which aliens can be
naturalized this year in time to vote at the 
November election. This date will occur
ninety days before election, as one of the 
qualifications of a voter, under the Con-
stitution, is citizenship for ninety days.
	It will thus be seen that a foreign wo-
man who arrived in the United States after
she had reached the age of 18, and who has
not been made a citizen by virtue of mar-
riage or the naturalization of a parent, will
be required, before she can become a quali-
fied elector, to file a declaration of intention
with a clerk of a court, and wait two years
thereafter for the issuance of a certificate of 
citizenship.
	It is believed that the women who will 
be unable to qualify themselves for voting
this year, number several thousand, but as 
before stated, no one can at present do 
more than guess at the proportion they form
of the total number of women of the State.


