RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society was held Friday, April 3, 1896, in
the Assembly Hall in this City, morning
session opening at 10 a. m., President Zina
D.H. Young presiding. On the Stand
were, of the general officers, Jane S. Rich-
ards, Bathsheba W. Smith, Isabella Horne,
and E. B. Wells, and of the Presidents of
Stake organizations, Mary A. T. Hyde,
Susan Grant, Elizabeth Fox, Mary Pitch-
forth, Jane S. Coleman, Ann C. Woodbury
and several others.
	Conference opened with the hymn “Lord
we come before thee now” Prof. C. J
Thomas leading the singing. Prayer by
Elder C. J. Thomas; singing. Roll called
Minutes read and approved; Statistical and
Financial report read and accepted. Presi-
dent Young was the first speaker, she urged 
the sisters to exercise faith and seek diligent-
ly for the spirit of God, that we might have
his blessings upon all our efforts. Referred
to the death of three of our good sisters,
who now lay awaiting burial; our beloved
Minerva W. Snow, Lucy Smith and Sister
Maeser, who were safe now beyond the
reach of pain or sorrow, but whose loss we
deeply felt. Sister Young spoke upon the
return of many wayward and indifferent
ones to the fold, and realized that love and
union would accomplish much in winning
back those who had turned away. Mrs.
Betsy Brower presented a bust of President
Young to President, Zina D. H. Young, for
and in behalf of Mrs. Almira Merrill and
the Richmond Relief Society Sister Young
very graciously acknowledged this token of
the love and esteem of the sisters of Rich-
mond, and paid a beautiful tribute to Brig-
ham Young and to Sister Eliza R. Snow,
referring to the beautiful hymn “O, my
Father” and spoke reverently of the ever-
lasting priesthood; said we should be firm as

[Column 2]
rocks in our integrity, and invoked the
blessing of God upon the congregation.
	Jane S. Coleman, President Wayne Stake,
Zina Y. Card. Alberta, Canada, Elizabeth
Fox, President Oneida Stake, Annie W.
Larsen, President Emery Stake. L. M.
Hart, Bear Lake Stake, Annie D. Bowring
Box Elder Stake, Margaret Goodman, St.
Joseph Stake, Ann C. Woodbury, Presi-
dent St. George Stake, Mary A. Anderson,
Bannock Stake, Mary Pitchforth, Juab
Stake, Mary A. Hyde, Sanpete, each gave
a brief and interesting report. The sub-
jects treated upon were, exemplary home
life, cultivation of faith, spirit of prayer,
practical work of the Society, its uplifting
tendency, the wonderful success attending
the efforts of the sisters in building halls,
storing grain and visiting the sick, the
needy and unfortunate; the blessings of the
Lord upon the Society as a whole in all the
world, and the expectations to be realized
in the great future. Several of those who
spoke alluded pathetically to the recent
death of Sister Minerva W. Snow who had
endeared herself to the hearts of all those
who knew her. All the sisters spoke of
the celebration of Sister Zina D. H. Young’s
birthday anniversary, and the excellent
spirit manifested in the exercises of the day.
Sister M. A. Hyde spoke powerfully in the
gift of tongues, and Sister Zina gave the
interpretation. The congregation sang,
“Glorious things are sung of Zion.” Bene-
diction by Elder Henry W. Hales of
Deseret, and meeting adjourned until 2
p. m.

	AFTERNOON SESSION:—Meeting opened
with singing, “Come, Come ye Saints.”
Prayer by President M. Isabella Horne.
Singing “O, Jesus the Giver.” The first
speaker was Sister Marilla M. Daniels, of
Provo, who bore an excellent testimony of
the truth, aud spoke of the many virtues of
Sister Minerva who had just passed away;
thought it a beautiful thing to live up-
rightly, referred to many scenes in the past.
	Annie E. Ward , Counselor in Parowan
Stake and H. E. Hoyt, Counselor Kanab
Stake gave good reports, similar to those
made in the morning.
	Sister S. M. Kimball, after some pre-
liminary remarks, spoke very interestingly
upon the Kindergarten, thought this was a
work which should be encouraged by the
Relief Society; it was not sufficiently under-
stood, but the principles of that system
really lay at the foundation of the child’s
education morally and spiritually; expected
there would be an article published in the
Deseret Evening News on the following
day which would give a clear idea of the
Kindergarten influence and work. The Pri-
mary Association lays the foundation for
the Mutual Improvement Association
which is for mental and spiritual growth.
The speaker thought the young women did
not realize the importance of the work of
the Relief Society, nor could they until
they came into contact with it. She felt
the Relief Society called into exercise all
the faculties of our nature, and it was ex-
pected the young women of to-day would
be more intellectual and more spiritual be-
cause they had better preparation than those
who had laid the foundation of this Society,
who had not been privileged with similar ad-
vantages It was no small mission and no
small calling, but a responsibility; and no
blessing ever came from shirking a re-
sponsibility; but a blessing comes with it,

[Column 3]
if properly fulfilled; it is a position of use-
fulness and of honor, and it is necessary
that younger women should come forward
and assist in the Relief Society. Hannah
E. Crosby Secretary of Relief Society of
Panguitch Stake, Lucy S. Cordon Counsel-
or Cache Stake, Ruth Pack Counselor
Summit Stake, Susan Grant, President
Davis Stake and M. Isabella Horne Presi
dent Salt Lake Stake, each reported the
work in their respective organizations;
thought there was a decided improvement
in spiritual work, and urged the sisters to
increased diligence in all duties whether of
a temporal or charitable nature. Sister
Horne spoke urgently upon the Kindergar-
ten movement and recommended the branch-
es in the Salt Lake Stake to use their
influence in helping to establish these schools;
referred to the signs of the times and the
threatening aspect of affairs in our own and
other nations.
	President B. W. Smith, spoke of hearing
Joseph Smith the Prophet preach when she
was a very young woman; she remembered
at one time he said in speaking of the ten
tribes “Perchance they are not on this
globe; it may be they are broken off and
gone rolling away into space, and when
some great shock is given to the earth, it
may return the portion broken away and
the ten tribes with it.” “The Prophet also
taught us the order of prayer and the of Re-
lief Society. In the Seventeenth Ward, since
Sister Zina has talked of the young sisters
joining, we have sent out missionaries to
try and induce them to come into our Relief
Society and help us with the work, and it
has been a good thing for us; we have
succeeded very well.”
	President Jane S. Richards gave an
excellent report of Weber Stake and of the
harmony existing there between the
Bishops and the Relief Society, but realized
that as they were in a railroad town where
so many lines joined, they had many more
poor and destitute people than even Salt
Lake City had, and consequently their treas-
ury was always heavily drained, and they
had to work very hard to do what was
really essential; the sisters were willing
but they could not do everything. Sis-
ter Richards stated she had joined the Relief
Society in Nauvoo when she was twenty;
her daughter and daughters-in-law had join-
ed when young; she believed it to be quite
the proper thing to do. At one time when
she presided in Ogden City, she persuaded
80 of the young girls to unite with the
Relief Society and they stayed with it. She
did not have a program, but speaking, testi-
monies and experiences; thought we should
teach our children concerning faith and vir-
tue, honesty and reverence for the aged;
they are the ones who have laid the founda-
tion. Said many other good things and
made some apt illustrations.
Sister Zina asked the sisters to sing a
verse or two of the hymn “How firm a
foundation” etc. two verses were ren-
dered, Sister Mary P. Silver leading. Dr.
Ellis R. Shipp, spoke of the great honor
and blessing of the Relief Society, and
praised the whole work of these diligent
and faithful mothers; thought it the duty of
the younger women to come to their aid
and help in this praiseworthy cause while
there was an opportunity to learn of those
who had the experience; spoke plainly up-
on the need of competent help for the sick
and afflicted in the various wards and places,
and thought the Relief Society should take


[Column 1]
this matter into consideration and see that
settlements were provided with educated
midwives and nurses, skilled in the pro-
fession.
	President Young made a few closing re-
marks in which she spoke of the wheat and
stated that President Woodruff had said in
regard to it, that he had no right to take a
handful of that wheat and dispose of it—
the wheat was held in sacred trust for a day
of scarcity and famine.
	Singing, “Praise God from whom all
blessings flow.” Prayer by Bishop Wm. R.
Allen, Draper. Conference adjourned un-
til 7.30 p. m.
	A meeting of Presidents of Stake or-
ganizations of the Relief Society or their
representatives, for special instructions was
held in the Assembly Hall at the close of
the afternoon services.
	EVENING SESSION.—Mrs. Zina D. H.
Young presiding. Two of the Apostles
were on the Stand, Franklin D. Richards
and Heber J. Grant, also C. W. Penrose of
the Presidency of Salt Lake Stake, and
Sisters Jane S. Richards, B. W. Smith, E.
B. Wells, R. B. Pratt and others, Meeting
opened with singing “O, my Father” and
prayer was offered by Apostle H. J. Grant,
singing “For the strength of the hills we
bless thee.” Helena Madsen President of
Relief Society at Gunnison was the first
speaker; they have 160 members in the
Society, and a very good average attendance.
She referred to the store they had establish-
ed which was a source of income and a great
advantage in many ways to them; they had
also built a very nice hall, commenced fif-
teen years ago; it is called the Relief Society
Hall. They rent it for various purposes,
the City Council meet there, it is used for
theaters and concerts, and sometimes for
district school purposes. It is quite a large
building, and brings in some means to the
Society. Sister Madsen told some very
interesting things in relation to their man-
agement.
	Sister Libbie Noall, who returned last
fall from the Sandwich Islands, gave a
most interesting description of her labors in
the Relief Society among the native sisters
on those islands. The first Relief Society
organized over there was in 1875—since
that time there have been sixty branches,
some have died out, and others have been
organized. At the present time there are 39;
some of these are necessarily small as the
people are scattered. These sisters are as
willing to make sacrifices as we are at home
in Zion; they are full of faith and zeal in
their religion, and are naturally gifted in
speaking. They learn quickly and do
fancy work of various kinds. They are
fond of their meetings and will walk long
distances to attend religious services, were
very willing to donate to all public purposes.
Sister Noall gave a vivid idea of the condi-
tions on those far away islands, and her
missionary labors there have certainly been
a success.
	Mary Hall, Counselor to the President of
the Relief Society Malad Stake, gave a
brief report of their work and referred to
the diligence of the sisters in their labors
spiritual and temporal, they had recently
made one hundred yards of carpet for the
Logan Temple. The sisters some of them
would travel long distances to attend Con-
ference.
	Elder C. W. Penrose in his remarks
alluded to the ideas which had prevailed
formerly in regard to the position of women

[Column 2]
in our Church. Spoke definitely upon
priesthood and the relative position of men
and women, their dependence upon each
other, and the harmony which should exist;
wives should be helpmeets to their hus-
bands. The speaker rejoiced that the wo-
men of Utah had equal political rights with
men, was not fearful of their abusing the
privilege, wanted to see them use the fran-
chise to maintain right, and stand for justice
and righteousness until evil should be over-
come. He was glad to be with those
honored women whom he had known so
many years, and who had a right to preside
over all the Relief Society in all its branch-
es throughout all lands.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke a
short time on the importance of younger
women coming forward and helping in the
work of the Relief Society, and getting the
practical benefit of the experience of the old-
er sisters, who are so well acquainted with
the work from the beginning of the or-
ganization. Counseled those present to
persuade the young women to join the Re-
lief Society and attend the meetings; felt it
was the higher spiritual work and that
other organizations had grown out of it.
	Apostle H. J. Grant, in his address, paid
a high tribute to the Relief Society and its
work, and spoke encouragingly of the suf-
frage; said he had always believed it to be
the privilege of women to have the fran-
chise, and had never taken any part in the
opposition; thought women would in some
respects set an example for men; had real-
ized how strong a mother's influence could
be; his own life had been greatly influenced
by his mother, her precepts, her example,
her influence had kept him from straying
into by and forbidden paths; he owed all to
his mother; he paid a glowing tribute to
woman.
	Apostle F. D. Richards felt complimented
to be in the Sister's Conference; thought
Sister Young had done well to have the
day before the General Conference, appreci-
ated the changed condition, that we
had liberty and were now a state, and in
that state women had equal rights with
men. Thought the sisters had, in going
out into the world, helped to turn back the
tide of opposition that had been arrayed
against this people formerly. Referred to
the wonderful work being accomplished
now by the missionaries. Many Elders
were being sent out, calls were coming in
for more and more. Urged the sisters to
keep their records of meetings, the records
that had been kept of the sayings of Joseph
the prophet and of Brigham Young, how
precious they were now; there is nothing
will tell so well what has been done as the
records. Related some incidents to illus-
trate these statements. The speaker referred
with apparently great satisfaction to the
three intermountain states which had equal
suffrage, and to the growth and influence
of the National Relief Society, felt the
name indicated its increased strength and
power. The world was watching the pro-
gress made by this great body of women.
and we should prove ourselves a strength
and power to help other women. Brother
Richards spoke beautifully upon faith and
the gifts of the gospel, and especially the
gift of healing, and of administering to the
sick, and quoted the Savior's words, “These
signs shall follow them that believe.”
Encouraged the sisters to exercise faith
and to administer to the sick and afflicted,
and rebuke disease in the name of Jesus,
“The Lord will magnify His people, His

[Column 3]
work will prosper in the land, but we mus
do our part, be humble and faithful, and
we will not be lacking in any good thing.”
Brother Richards prophesied good con-
cerning Zion and the work of the Latter
days, and blest the congregation. Con-
ference closed with singing, ‘ We thank
Thee O, God for a prophet.” Benedic-
tion by Bishop C. A. Madsen. Adjourn-
ed until next October.
E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


