RESOLUTIONS.

	The National American Woman Suffrage
Association, in Annual Convention assem-
bled, hereby declares and affirms:
	1.	That we demand suffrage for all
citizens of the United States, women and
men, upon reasonable conditions attainable
by all, as a right and not a privilege, under
a government professedly based upon the
consent of the governed.
	2.	That we rejoice in the admission of
Utah as a third woman suffrage State.

[Column 2]
	3.	That organization is the watchword
of the hour and our primary object: that
special attention should be given during
the coming year to the Territories of Arizona
Oklahoma and New Mexico before their
admission to statehood; and that we will
co-operate in support of the constitutional
amendments now pending in Idaho, Cali-
fornia and Nevada.
	4.	Thus we petition Congress and
Legislatures to secure to the women of this
Nation by every form of appropriate legis-
lation the full rights of citizenship guaran-
teed them under the U. S. Constitution.
	5.	That we hereby pledge to the women
of the District of Columbia our hearty sup-
port in their efforts to represent and protect
their own interests by the ballot.
	6.	That we congratulate the women of
Kentucky upon having recently secured the
election of four women and four men upon
the municipal board of education in the
city of Lexington.
	7.	That we seek the co-operation of all
organizations of men and women for the
promotion of political equality irrespective
of sex.
	8.	That this Association is non-sectarian,
being composed of persons of all shades of
religious opinions, and that it has no official
connection with the so-called “Woman’s
Bible,” or any theological publication.
	That we commend the actions of the Na-
tional Purity Association in endeavoring to
secure better protection for the youth of
our land.
	11.	That we demand State and National
legislation that mothers shall have equal
custody and control with fathers over their
minor children.
	13.	That the frightful massacre perpe-
trated by the authorities of Turkey upon
their unarmed and defenseless Armenian
subjects, and the systematic policy of ex-
termination of Christians throughout Asia-
Minor, calls for the intervention of united
Christendom, and we appeal to Congress to
take prompt and effective measures for stop-
ping these intolerable barbarities.
	14.—That we heartily sympathize with
the men and women of Cuba in their strug-
gle for independence, and with all oppressed
peoples who are trying to secure political
self-government.
	15.	That we request the Executive
Committee to petition the City Council of
Philadelphia to assign to the National
American and Pennsylvania and Phila-
delphia Woman Suffrage Association the
use of a room in old Independence Hall, on
the ground that we are seeking to carry out
the principles for which our fathers and
mothers suffered and died.
16.	That a page of the forthcoming re-
port of this annual meeting be specially de-
voted to memorial tablets of illustrious
members who have passed away during the
year 1895.
	17.	That we thank the newspapers of
Washington and of the country for the
space devoted to the proceedings of this
Convention.


MRS. A. C. RAYMOND has been elected
Town Clerk of Stowe, Vt.
	THE Woman’s Club of Omaha. Neb., 
will get out the Easter edition of the Omaha
Enterprise.
	FRANCE has just passed a married wo-
men’s property bill, giving wives a right to
their own earnings.


