EMILY H. WOODMANSEE


[Column 1]
ADELSBERG CAVE.
	TUESDAY, July 25th.—On leaving Vien-
na, we had a magnificent view of the city
and suburbs to the West—to the East—the
Leitha Mountains. Our route was south-
ward via of Semmering Pass to Adelsberg
and Triest. The day was perfect. We
passed through the Tyrolean and Slavonian
Alps—the scenery picturesque. All the 
way the road runs along abrupt precipices
over fifteen viaducts—the views, wild and 
grand until Semmering the summit of the
line.
	The train now makes a rapid descent,
passing through Gratz, Capitol of Styria, 
beautifully situated on the Mur, and is a 
favorite residence of retired officers of the
Austrian Army. From here the train runs 
through the valley of the Mur to Adels-
berg—A small town in the Duchy of
Carniola—renowned for its Stalactite Caves,
“Which may tempt the traveler to stop
over a train”
	This is an Alpine Village, the people do
not speak Russian. Swiss, French, Spanish
nor German, but a mixture of all Prof. was
the only one who could converse with
them. They seemed much amused to see 
so many ladies and so few gentlemen.
	The Grand Hotel stands upon a hill,
with a stream of water near and the scenery
most beautiful, on top of a mountain was a 
ruined castle—which makes and scene ro-
mantic. Early next morning a delightful
drive brought us to the cave—Prof. had
prepared for a grand illumination. Soon
after we entered we saw the mysterious
dark river Poibo (By some supposed to be
the river Wey) whose course can be traced
for miles occasionally appearing above
ground then disappearing until it is finally
lost sight of. The cave was illuminated with
two thousand burners and several 
magnesian lights, the tout ensemble pro-
ducing an effect I shall never forget. We 
walked for five miles through it, the Guide
called out the names of the chambers,
“Here is the Great Dome” or Neptune
Grotto—it is 70 ft high, 144 ft. wide with
most wonderful stalactite formations, we 
beheld a succession of columns and pillars
which seemed to support the roof. Yet all
nature’s work,all stalactites and stalagmites
forming themselves into curious solid masses
all deserving the names given them, such as
“The Waterfall,” “The Sleeping Maiden,”

[Column 2]
“The Palm," “The Lion.” “The Organ.”
“The Pulpit”—the stalactites from which
it was formed being most beautiful, one
piece, they claimed would be three million
four hundred thousand years forming, it
was splendid and clear and in the lights
was most beautiful, it is easy to estimate
the years forming, as it is from the drop-
ping of water impregnated with carbonate
of lime. We passed through chamber after
chamber each more beautiful than the last.
There was the ball room 150 ft. long, 9 ft.
wide and 50 ft. high. Each year on Whit-
Monday they give a ball and this vast hall
is lighted with many thousand lights, then
came Hall of Mt. Calvary, 180 ft. high
680 ft. wide and 642 ft. long, a rising slope 
full of stalagmites resembling, as one of
the party remarked, “So many tomb
stones" these columns, pillars and draperies
are of the purest whiteness, though some-
times assuming cream, crimson and rose 
tints, it was amusing to hear the comments,
as the fantastic figures, to each imagination
represented different objects. Much 
fatigued we returned to the Hotel for din-
ner, then off for Triest.
	A delightful journey of two hours skirt-
ing the shores of the Adriatic by the palace 
and gardens of Chiramar, the chateau of
Maximilian, it was here his body was
brought from Mexico. Triest is a large
Austrian seaport, the great emporium for
the triad of the Austrian Empire—by the
Adriatic—it is 72 miles from Venice, a 
most interesting place. Prof. gave us 
many bits of history. Madame Adelaide
Aunt of Louis XVI, of France, on the 19, 
Feb. 1791, with her Sister Victoria, fled
from the horrors of the revolution, sought
an asylum in Rome, Naples and other
places without success; at length arrived at
Corfu, where they obtained protection until
the Russian General Outschaord took them
to Triest where they remained. 
	The evening of the 7th we took the
steamer across the Sea so we may have the
opportunity to see the beautiful approach to
Venice, the sea is calm and beautifully blue,
the moon shone clear and bright, many of
the young people will remain on deck all 
night, but the older members retired, we
were six in a room. I could look through
the port, and see the shimmering of the 
waves as the steamer dipped, could now and
then catch a peep at the moon. Mrs. Von
A-----said she cared not for the moon, she
felt nervous, as if her time had come, had
read in the Guide, a storm was sudden and
that beautiful placid water could boil and
lash and foam, demolishing things in a
frightful manner; however she soon felt
better and ere long we heard some one say
Venice—Oh! Oh! so we hurried up on deck
just before sunrise, presently the sun ap-
peared above the horizon and the city was
flecked with golden rays, the scene was en-
trancing; all my dreams of the Adriatic
Queen were realized. There are Gondolas
for the party with the stars and stripes on
each, the Gondolas are all black with elongat-
ed prows, like the neck of black swans, in a few
moments we were getting down into the
dark colored boats—we approach the mole,


pass the Piazza Lou Marco with its two sen-
tinel columns of red granite, its Palace of the
Doges and tall campanile, which we saw
from afar and soon we land at the door of
the Grand Hotel d’ltalie. My Gondola
was first to arrive, stepping from the boats
upon the marble floor of the hall I heard
my name called, was shown a room prepared
for breakfast, which was spread out on the
garden terrace  Breakfast in Venice—must
quote from Prof. Gastineau "Oh animal-
ism of our coarse human nature ever as-
serting itself over the finer essence of the
soul!”  We have at last touched the point
whereupon concentrated our most fanciful
dreams. We are in Venice—the ideal city,
the mysterious though palpable Mortar and
Stone Venice—rising resplendent with a
thousand charms from the amorous flood,
and we stop to think of breakfast before a
week has elapsed! Nay—we succumb to
materialism enough to desire breakfast on
the first morning of our arrival! It must
be admitted that a more delightful place
could scarcely be conceived to break a
night's fast through this terraced garden,
bound on one side by the river street,
overlooking the Grand Canal, with its
Gondolas crossing each other in every
direction, the sun bathes all in resplendent
light as we sit down to our places; a Gon-
dola loaded with musicians and singers ap-
proach and move at the steps. As the
sound of Italian instruments strike our ear,
it adds enchantment to the scene.”
After partaking of the refreshments in
shape of coffee, bread, beafsteak, cakes and
butter, we felt substantial and contented
that at least this day would be delightful.
At midnight throwing open the shutters of
my window and looking out upon the Alley
a (Collie) "there are two Venices, one of the
canals the other of the alleys, by which and
the 378 bridges you may walk over the
hundred isles, and thought of the events of
the day, and the magical evening, the
moonlight flooding the old Palaces and
Canals. We had spent the evening on the
Grand Platzza (or square) with the
thousands of gaily dressed people, flowers
and music, for the Queen Marguarette was
there—standing near the Palace. I heard
the shout Vive la Rein—looking up had a
splendid view of her leaning on the
balcony looking at her people. Now in the
moonlight and quiet it all seemed like a
beautiful dream realized.—KIM.


