PROGRESS OF WOMEN.

Progress of Woman since 1840, when
	Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton visited
	London.
	THE condition of the women of a nation
is an index of its civilization. Nearly all
nations have favored the domestic seclusion
of women, with the exception of those in
the upper strata of society; and those are
the only ones of which history records their
deeds. We have notable instances where
women have understood the ecenomic
financial and political situation of the nation
in which they were identified and have
been great factors in adjusting affairs in
general commensurate with the needs of
the people. It was a propitious omen of
the position which woman was destined to
hold in America, that the only one who
fully comprehended the scope in its entirety
of Columbus plans, and the intrinsic quali-
ties of his matchless genius, was the able
and gracious Queen of Castile, Isabella and
above all the luminaries of that age shares
the honors of his great achievement. She
arrayed her kingdom and her private for-
tunes behind the enthusiasm of this un-
popular man and we must accredit to her
sagacity and intuition, beyond any of the
nobles of her Court, and posterity pays
homage to her wisdom.
	In less than a century another woman,
Elizabeth of England, was the first Patro-
ness of the first permanent settlement of her
race upon their shores; a race which was
destined to dominate this northern Conti-
nent of the New World. These women
were notable and great in the sphere
in which the accident of birth placed them,
and they made the most of their position
being greatly gifted by nature.
	But the theory of the Civil Laws of
Continental Europe coming down from, the
Roman Code was based on the meekness
frailty and incapacity of the sex. The
husband having complete control of the
wife’s property and was able to dispose of it
at his own pleasure, without her knowledge
and consent These discriminations and in-
equalities with numerous others, were
brought to the notice of our friend and co-
laborer, Elizabeth Cady Stanton whose
birthday we celebrate, and to whose inspira-
tions must be given the precedent of what-
ever has been accomplished in the advance-
ment of woman’s legal and political enfran-
chisement.
	When we consider that it is but fifty-six
years ago when this talented lady, then a
bride of twenty-five, in company with her
husband, who was called as a Delegate to
theWorld’s Anti-slavery Convention held in
London in 1840, was not allowed to sit with
her husband and listen to the discussion of
the slave question, in company with many
eminent women who had gathered from all
parts of the world to answer to the call, but
on their arrival were told that as a conces-
sion they would be allowed to sit behind a
curtain where they could neither see nor be
seen. Imagine these talented ladies subject-
ed to this indignity! However it was the
means of agitating the minds of two of the
most notable among them, Lucretia Mott
and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, who decided
that on their return to America they would
call a Woman’s Rights Convention, they,
at that time, had not thought of claiming
the ballot as one of the rights belonging to
women. But this convention was not called
till eight years later in 1848 and a fine

[Column 2]
assemblage of intelligent educated men and
women attended it. The great question to
the women was how to formulate their
grievance. A number of resolutions were
framed, the 9th written and defended by E.
Cady Stanton, was received at first with al-
most universal opposition.
	Resolved, that is the duty of the women
of America to secure to themselves the right
to the Election franchise. This was the
first expression of this kind in this country.
	The majority of the woman movement
including Lucretia Mott, could not see the
consistency of such a radical change. After
a long discussion the resolution was passed
by a small majority. This one woman
whose 80th birthday we celebrate, was the
only one who in 1848 had the courage to
ask for the ballot, and today is working as
assiduously as ever in various lines of work
in the interest and elevation of her sex, and 
has sons and daughters to aid her, and who
are proud of their illustrious mother’s life’s
work. We find greater changes since that
time than we have gained in hundreds of
years before, but that other bright woman
did [-]ot see the need of a wider sphere of
usefulness, and the wall of custom and pre-
judice was so strong that few dared to ven-
ture in such an insurrection. Women
accepted the idea of their intellectual in-
equality. But the idea of equal rights was
in the air, the wail of the slave and her
clanking fetters appealed to everybody.
Women spoke in public in defence of free-
dom for the slave such a thing had never
been heard of. Some of the abolitionists
forgot the slave in their endeavor to silence
the women.
	The Church and the Press heaped re-
proches on women who had so far departed
from their true sphere as to speak in politics
but Whittier wrote at that time “When
woman’s heart is breaking, shall woman’s
voice be hushed?” I do not think it possi-
that the masses of the women of to-day can
ever realize at what price free speech, and
to speak in public at all, has been gained.
At that time Mt. Holyoke Seminary
was declared open to women. The right to
education and every other good thing was
to be gained. The idea that their sphere
was at home was like a band of steel in
society.
	But the spinning wheel and the loom had
been displaced by machinery and something
else had to take their place. A wholesome
discontent in women was urged, that they
might reach out after better things. But
every new step was a trial and a conflict.
Men printers left when women took the
type. About this time Harriet Hosmer
sought by the study of anatomy, to prepare
herself for the medical profession, but was
repelled as out of her sphere and indelicate;
and not a medical college in all New Eng-
land or the United States would admit her,
notwithstanding she was aided by her
father’s great wealth and influence. Finally
Dr. McDowell in St. Louis admitted her.
	When the models for the statue of
Charles Sumner were made, although that
of Annie Whiting, in the judgment of the
Committee, took precedence of all the others,
they refused her the contract for the statue
when they knew that it was the work of a
woman.
	In Massachusetts where properly quali-
fied persons were allowed to practice law,
the Supreme Court decided that a woman
was not a person, and a special act of the
[Continued on Page 143.]


[Continued from Page 138.]
legislature had to be passed before Miss
Lelie Robinson could be admitted to the
bar. Fifty years ago the legal injustice
heaped upon women was appalling. A
wife by her marriage lost all rights to any
personal property she might have previously
had. If a woman wrote a book the copy-
right of the same belonged to her husband
and not to her. No married mother could
have any right to her child, and in most
States of the Union this is the law to-day.
But the laws as to the personal and property
rights of women have been greatly changed
and improved; and we are very grateful to
the men who have wrought this change.
The last half century has gained for women
the rights to the highest education and en-
trance to all the professions and occupations
or nearly so where competency is establish- 
ed.
	A little over fifty years ago the first
woman medical student began her course of
study and now countless thousands are
scattered over the world pursuing their
profession with most signal success. There
are not less than eleven law schools in
the United States open to women, and
twenty-five States and Territories admit
women to the bar. As to the rest we can-
not say they are excluded, for as a matter
of fact, they have not applied except in
Virginia, which for three years has stead-
fastly refused to grant admission to a lady
lawyer. There are two hundred women
lawyers in the United States to-day, nine of
whom are admitted to practice before the
Supreme Court. Every known profession,
occupation and trade seems now open to
women in some part of the civilized world.
She can be a Minister, Doctor, Lawyer,
Professor, Lecturer, Journalist, Mechanic,
Architect, Sculptor, Painter, Merchant and
in fact, whatever she chooses to do or un-
dertake, she is permitted. In view of this
entire revolution in her social status, should
she not logically possess the same civil and
legal rights, and be subject to the same civil
and legal liabilities? There are twenty-five
out of a total of forty-eight States and
Territories of our union where women en-
joy some form of Suffrage. In Canada
women can vote for all Municipal officers
throughout the length and breadth of the
dominion, although no married women
can vote except in Manitoba and British
Columbia. The women of all the Colonesi
of Great Britian, from Cape Colony to New
Zealand enjoy Municipal Suffrage. In Ice-
land as in Wyoming and Colorado and also in
the Isle of Man, women enjoy full and equal
suffrage with men. The age of consent which
in many states has been placed at the age of
10 years has been raised by very recent legis-
lation to 14 and 16, and the first woman
legislator in Colorado presented a bill
raising it to 18 years.
For the better protection of women under
arrest, police matrons have been placed in
the station houses of some of our American
cities, to take charge of those women during
their detention. Laws have been made
forbidding women to work near dangerous
machinery as formerly; laws requiring shop
keepers to provide seats for saleswomen.
A married woman is now protected from
the violence of her husband by the legal
right given her to prosecute him for assaults
upon her. The old theory of the husband’s
right to chastise hi's wife has disappeared
from English and American laws. The


[Column 1]
Codes of Continental Europe fail to do justice
to woman in respect to her personal protec-
tion in matters of divorce, for certain
criminal offences where the privileges of
the man are greater than those of the wo-
man, making it less easy for her than for him
to obtain a divorce.
	In every state of the Union, except
Tennessee, at the present time the wife’s
property is so far secured for her that it can-
not be taken for her husband’s debts, and if
she survives him, it is to be her sole and
separate property But a majority of the
states go farther than this and give to the
wife the sole ownership and control of her
property as if she were unmarried.
	In Europe the widow has not full power
to be guardian of her child; she must act
under the advice of a special council appoint-
ed by the father in his will, and the widow
cannot discipline her children without the
concurrence of the nearest relatives on the
father’s side. So we can plainly see that we
are far in advance of those olden Countries
in many respects, and one must attribute
this in a great degree to the progressive-
ness of our women; continually presenting
their claims before its Legislature until
men saw the justice of their claims and
yielded to their demands, and women are
making the most of their advantages.
	The relative numerical positions of men
and women as investors in building and
loan associations, is as one to four, that is
25 per cent of the building and loan shares
of stock in the Eastern, and Middle Western
States are owned by women. In New
Jersey every fourth shareholder is a woman.
In a teachers building and loan association
in New York City, ninety per cent of the
members were women earning their own
money, and many of them built several
houses to rent through the association.
The tremendous financial power which
women might become in this country, they
have never as yet realized. It is therefore
an exploded theory that women who have
property to manage must be provided with
guardians. I do not mean that she is a
more honest or wiser financier than man,
but simply that she is, a more careful one.
Hence we find, though prejudice of race and
religion, have gone and the disqualification
of sex is disappearing by the free opening
up of all professions to meritorious appli-
cants, “That Custom is Law” and recog-
nized as one of the fundamental maxims
in ancient jurisprudence. But the deform-
ities and failures which resulted from their
efforts gave rise to a new Code, based on
principles of justice and equality, But this
achievement has not been instantaneous,
woman has not obtained, a place in the pro-
fessions by demanding her rights, as Shy-
lock contended for his pound of flesh, but like
Portia by unfolding the harmony and the
correlation of legal and equitable claims.
Merit has no sex; whoever can work and
wait to win is sure to achieve both recogni-
tion and success, and in the uplifting of her
sex she follows a more divine star of ambi-
tion than that which sat at St. Helena.
	The married women and mothers must
ever constitute a great majority of any
population and it is right that it should be
so, but, what they are thinking and doing,
is the thinking and doing of a nation;
especially is this true of a Republic. Poli-
tics, I know, are a bye-word, but if those
home women could be enthused with the
love of country as the mothers of the Revo-
lution learned it, do you not think it would
be improving to the politicians? Our great-

[Column 2]
ness lies in our opportunity; born of condi-
tions and events which seem inevitable and
for which we deserve little credit. How
we shall use our gifts is for us to decide.
This Nineteenth Century is sweeping
grandly on to its close, carrying with it
mighty movements that can no more be
staid by the hand of man, than the rushing
waters of the Niagara or the tide of the
ocean. Of woman’s mission in this on-
ward march, we would repeat the divine
command “Give her of the fruit of her
hands, and let her own works praise her
within the gates.” Equality between the
sexes is not in the equal portion of the
same work, but the equality of their whole
contribution to the welfare of the race.
Hail then Twentieth Centnry! I see a
race of men Strong, brave and true because
the mothers of men are free. Go to thy
grave oh Nineteenth Century, a century that
will stand out for all time as an era that
buried slavery and ushered in liberty, that
enfranchised the colored race and women;
and when the historian shall make up the
records of the 19th Century, such men as
Lincoln, Sumner, William Loyd Garrison,
Garfield and Grant; a century that had its
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucy Stone,
Lucretia Mott. Susan B. Anthony, Frances
Willard, Clara Barton and many others who
have adorned and enobled the world, who
are assisting in the work they have so
magnanimously devoted their lives to, and
may posterity to the latest generation
cherish their memory as we do, that it may
be a guiding star to make the world better,
happier, more virtuous and prosperous.
	SARAH BOYER.
	(Writtten for Mrs. Stanton’s birthday.)


