NOTES AND NEWS.

	The New England Woman’s Press As-
sociation gave a charming reception to Mrs.
Harriet Prescott Spofford, at the Parker
House, Boston, on Thursday, March 12,
from 4 to 6 P. M. It was a very interest-
ing occasion,
	FROKEN MARIA FOLKESON. who is the
daughter of a Swedish M. P. and who
held the degree of candidate of medicine,
the other day took her degree as licentiate
of medicine at the Caroline Institute,
Stockholm. She is said to be the third
woman doctor in Sweden.
	The next public meeting of the Massa-
chusetts federation will be held in Water-
town on April 8, by invitation of the
Watertown Women’s Club. The subject
will be "Women in Business life," Miss
Abby J. McCutcheon, president of the
Norumbega Club of Charlestown, is chair-
man of the committee of arangements.
Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson will present the
[-]ims and objects of the Woman's Business


League, and a woman physician and a wo-
man lawyer will present the case from their
points of view. Mrs. Sally Joy White will
speak upon “A Question in Economics,”
and Mrs. Elizabeth M. Gosse
on “Stumb-ling Blocks.” There will also be a paper
upon “The Independent Purse.,’ At the
last meeting of the Federation, held in
Chelsea, one thousand women were present
	IN 1818 was born on a little Island to the 
south east of Massachusetts, Maria Mitchell,
whose name stands at the head of the list
of American women in the world of Science.
At the age of sixteen she became the pupil
of her father who was regarded as an
astronomer of considerable merit; he built
an observatory on the Island (Nantucket)
and it was here that when only ninteen
Miss Mitchell discovered a telescopic comet
which was rewarded by a gold medal from
the King of Denmark. From this time on
her studies gradually brought her into the
notice of scientists, until in 1866 she was
appointed the Professor of Astronomy in
Vassar College.
	Again at the very beginning of this cen-
tury there came into this world a woman
whose work began even before Queen
Victoria's. Harriett Martineau, whose
writings on political economy, and the con-
ditions of the laboring classes, proclaimed
her an earnest thinker.


