WOMEN IN PUBLIC AFFAIRS.

	THE Legislature has been fairly getting
down to work during the latter part of the
session and as the time draws near the close,
it is very apparent extra exertion is made
to complete the business, of these law
makers. We are very glad to be able to
say too that women have manifested more
real interest in legislative matters than at
first. It is true there is not much women
can do except in going before Committees,
but they can learn by listening, and observ-
ing how large bodies of men conduct their
affairs and not be entirely ignorant of the
rules and regulations of great assemblies,
should they be elected to fill some of these
official positions, when another legislature is
chosen, as they most likely will be; at least
it is in all events probable, that when the
members of the next legislature are nomi-
nated, women being eligible, some women
will doubtless receive nominations and if
so—the chances are will be elected.
	A great deal is or seems to be expected of
women‘when they have the franchise; and
yet there cannot be any very great change
at first, except the novelty of the fact.

[Column 2]
	There may not be quite so much smoke
in the public buildings but there will pos-
sibly be some little fire; and it is desirable
that some places should be cleaner and the
atmosphere purer in more ways than one.
The fact that women have the ballot can-
not make much difference with the affairs of
the State at first, but their influence ought
to be felt very soon and very materially in
the cities and towns. The recent move
made in Provo, in shutting up the Diamond
saloon, by the leading women who have
had practical experience in organized work
among their own sex, is a good illustration
of what women can accomplish when they
set about it in earnest, and the example of
the women of Provo ought to be followed
by other women in the cities and towns
where like evils exist,and are maintained to
the detriment of the community and es-
pecially the young and rising generation
and to the disgrace of all who desire to pro
mote good morals and the elevation of
society.
	Surely all good women will take these
matters seriously to heart and ponder them
just long enough to see the best way to ap-
ply a remedy, before the condition becomes
much more dangerous than it is at present.
The mothers will see these things quicker
than even the fathers, who have so far been
the guardians of the public welfare. Gen-
erally speaking women have quicker per-
ception, and a high moral sentiment pre-
dominates largely with them which will be
a good element to infuse into governmental
affairs.
	The experience of women who have been
interested in some of the bills pending be-
fore the Legislature, has been quite satis-
factory; members have been exceedingly
courteous in allowing them time before the
respective committees that have such bills
in charge, and of course the ladies appreci-
ate the spirit of fairness with which their
views have been considered. Women are
and necessarily must be greatly interested
in all educational matters, in all industrial
and reformatory work. It should not be
forgotton by those who have the selection
of persons to serve on all such Boards that
women should be included when these ap-
pointments are made, for all these classes of
work viz., educational, industrial, and re-
formatory.
	In England where the prevailing public
sentiment is not in favor of women’s work,
women have shown themselves very
efficient in places where men made no im-
pression at all upon the classes of people
who are a public expense. Their ways of
dealing with subjects are different and their
methods usually are more kindly and hu-
mane. These are a few of the things wo-
men should think about, and when they
think deeply they will be prepared to act,
and do their part of the humanitarian work
which comes into the provence of the state.
	The women of Utah are being watched
as no other women are at the present time,
and it should be their laudable ambition to
set an example even in political affairs, that
other states can point to with pride, and
seek to emulate.Women must not forget
there are duties and obligations attached to
citizenship, that they cannot afford to ig-
nore or to neglect.


