[Vol42 | September 1955 | Sequence: 24 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Sar I am so grateful for the Magazine and do so enjoy the wonderful contributions of our Authorities and also the editorial section. The Magazine has been a great help and inspiration to me here in the mission field. It seems like a dear friend coming to call. —Mary G. Sorensen President, Danish Mission Relief Society Copenhagen, Denmark I have been receiving The Relief Society Magazine for some months. I find it very interesting. I wish to add I am very grateful to you for it. —Mrs. Helen Markovejos Hallandri, Attikes Greece I have really enjoyed the Magazine and feel that the articles and features have contributed to my spiritual growth. So often before, I would say "I'm only a housewife," but now I've learned to appreciate the position a wife and mother holds in the building of Zion, so I can hold my head high and say "I am a homemaker,"' knowing full well this is the position the Heavenly Father wants each of us to fulfill with diligence and with love.

Within me has been born a desire to be a better mother, wife, and housekeeper. I still fall short of my goal, but I trust I will continue to learn with the help of the Magazine and the association of the sisters. But, most of all, I hope my daughters will learn what I've learned —that to enjoy the blessings of the gospel, you must live it and associate with the saints, so that you can continue to grow. —Mayona Grinder Arlington, Virginia I want to tell you how much I enjoy reading The Relief Society Magazine. I am only fifteen, but ever since I was a little girl I have read it. I look forward to it every month. —Miss Judy Irene Lee Aberdeen, Idaho Page 562 We truly enjoy the Magazine and the spirit it brings into our home. I choose some of the most choice articles from the Magazine to read to the family at the table during our dinner hour. The wholesome and inspiring stories are especially appreciated by my teen-age daughters. I keep all of my subscription issues and take them to loved ones when they are in the hospital. We love our Relief Society Magazine. —Laura W. Magnusson Anchorage, Alaska Let's have some more stories from that talented writer, Frances Carter Yost. —Mrs. Clyde Crandall Rupert, Idaho I enjoy the Woman's Sphere page in the Magazine very much. It must take a lot of work and effort to collect so much material concerning women's activities all over the world, in every field of endeavor. It amazes me that women can develop talents in so many fields. I am afraid I never find time for anything outside of home and Church. A husband and little children constitute a full-time job for me, so I admire women who do this and other works, too. —Margaret Piele Albuquerque, New Mexico I thought you might be interested in my care of these valuable little books which are gems of sunshine in my shutin hours. I assemble them in order, then bind them into books. I learned bookbinding some years ago, and now I find this a wonderful way to enjoy my Magazine for many years.

Each book has an index to help me find articles more easily, too. I am a convert and have never missed a copy of the Magazine since joining the Church. —Mrs. H. L. Thielke Bremerton, Washington