[Vol42 | September 1955 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: Visiting | Author: Elliott]
[Visiting Teacher Messages: But When: Thou Doest Alms" Edith Elliott]
628 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1955 
ness;  and  thus  they  were  ripening 
again  for  destruction"  (Helaman 
11:37). 
God  had  blessed  and  prospered 
the  people  as  long  as  they  placed 
their  trust  in  him.  Because  a  ma- 
jority of  the  people  had  chosen  to 
be  wicked,  their  government  itself 
was  endangered. 
And  thus  we  see  that  except  the  Lord 
doth  chasten  his  people  with  many  af- 
flictions, yea,  except  he  doth  visit  them 
with  death  and  with  terror,  and  with 
famine  and  with  all  manner  of  pestilence, 
they  will  not  remember  him.  O  how 
foohsh,  and  how  vain,  and  how  evil,  and 
devihsh,  and  how  quick  to  do  iniquity, 
and  how  slow  to  do  good,  are  the  children 
of  men;  yea,  how  quick  to  hearken  unto 
the  words  of  the  evil  one,  and  to  set  their 
hearts  upon  the  vain  things  of  the  world 
.  .  .  and  how  slow  are  they  to  remember 
the  Lord  their  God,  and  to  give  ear  unto 
his  counsels,  yea,  how  slow  to  walk  in 
wisdom's  paths  ....  Therefore,  blessed 
are  they  who  will  repent  and  hearken 
unto  the  voice  of  the  Lord  their  God; 
for  these  are  they  that  shall  be  saved 
(Helaman  12:3-5,  ^3)- 
Questions  and  Topics  for  Discussion 
1.  Distinguish  between  Cezoram  and 
Seezoram. 
2.  Why  does  the  Lord  find  it  necessary 
to  chasten  his  people? 
3.  Why  did  the  Lord  give  Nephi  pow- 
er over  the  elements? 
4.  What  often  happens  to  a  people 
when  God  blesses  them  abundantly? 
5.  What  made  Lehi  and  Nephi  such 
great  missionaries? 
6.  What  happens  to  representative  gov- 
ernment when  a  majority  of  the  people 
choose  iniquity? 
Visiting  cJeacher    i/iessages 
Book  of  Mormon  Gems  of  Truth 
Lesson  35— "But  When  Thou  Doest  Alms  Let  Not  Thy  Left  Hand  Know  What 
Thy  Right  Hand  Doeth;  That  Thine  Alms  May  Be  in  Secret;  and  Thy 
Father  Who  Seeth  in  Secret,  Himself  Shall  Reward 
Thee  OpenI/'  (3  Nephi  13:3-4). 
Edith  S.  Elliott 
For  Tuesday,  December  6,  1955 
Objective:  To  point  out  that  alms  should  be  given  in  secret  and  the  Lord  shall 
reward  openly. 
TT  is  the  nature  of  women  to  be 
generous.  Usually  a  mother's 
whole  life  is  one  of  giving  to  her 
family.  Relief  Society  members  are 
well  schooled  in  the  meaning  of 
sharing,  giving,  helping,  alms,  com- 
passionate service,  generosity,  and 
other  related  words  and  phrases.  In 
fact,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
teaches  us  to  see  the  needs  of  our 
brother  and  alleviate  them.  To  love 
our  neighbor  as  ourselves  will  bring 
the  blessings  of  eternity  to  this 
earth. 
The  friendly  Lebonese  writer  and 
philosopher,  Kahlil  Gibran,  says, 
'Tour  friend  is  your  needs  an- 
swered ....  And  he  is  your  board 
and  your  fireside.  For  you  come  to 
him  with  your  hunger,  and  you  seek 
him  for  peace"  (The  Piophet,  page 
66).  May  each  of  us  be  that  friend.