[Vol42 | September 1955 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Fiction | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
Sixty    Ljears  J^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woiiiaii's  Exponent,  September  i,  and  September  15,  1895 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
WOMEN  IN  CIVIC  AFFAIRS:  Woman  herself  must  not  eease  her  efforts  in 
her  own  behalf,  or  in  behalf  of  her  own  sex;  beeause  it  must  be  apparent  to  all,  that 
although  women  may  be  intellectually  bright,  vigorous  and  active,  yet  they  lack  the 
training  and  discipline  men  get  from  association,  political  and  otherwise,  which  brings 
them  in  contact  with  each  other,  and  the  public  at  large.  Women  have  occupied  a 
much  narrower  sphere  heretofore,  and  necessarily  their  views  and  opinions  on  questions 
of  state  .  .  .  will  require  time  to  mature.  And  the  real  method  of  arriving  at  excellence 
.  .  .  will  be  by  practice. 
— Editorial 
HYGIENIC  COOKERY:  Fruit  should  compose  a  large  part  of  our  diet.  Grapes, 
apples,  peaches  and  a  great  many  of  our  excellent  fruits  are  more  nutritious  in  their 
natural  condition;  they  should  be  thoroughly  matured  but  not  over  ripe  ....  Much  of 
our  fruit  can  be  bottled  fresh  or  dried  for  winter  use  ....  Vegetables  are  also  whole- 
some but  should  be  cooked  properly.  They  should  be  perfectly  tender  but  not  over- 
done. Steaming  or  baking  is  preferable  for  most  vegetables,  because  their  fine  flavors 
are  thus  more  easily  retained  and  their  food  value  suffers  less  diminution  .... 
—J.  S.  W. 
A  Love  Song  to  a  Wife 
We  have  been  lovers  for  forty  years; 
O,  dear  cheeks,  faded  and  worn  with  tears, 
What  an  eloquent  story  of  love  you  tell! 
Your  roses  are  dead,  yet  I  love  you  well! 
O,  pale  brow,  shrined  in  soft,  silvery  hair; 
Crowned  with  life's  sorrow  and  lined  with  care. 
Let  me  read  by  the  light  of  the  stars  above 
Those  dear,  dear  records  of  faithful  love  .... 
— Quiver 
LADIES  MEETING  IN  THE  FOURTEENTH  WARD,  SALT  LAKE  CITY: 
Counselor  E.  J.  Stevenson  presiding  ....  Counselor  Stevenson  said.  What  a  privilege 
to  have  remained  in  the  courts  on  high  to  come  forth  in  this  day,  when  the  Gospel  of 
the  Son  of  God  has  been  restored  in  this  momentous  age  ....  we  are  surrounded  by 
temptations,  let  us  make  the  best  of  our  opportunity,  be  as  towers  of  strength  round 
our  children;  live  near  to  the  Lord;  teach  by  example;  we  should  strive  to  overcome  our 
weaknesses.  One,  today,  another  tomorrow.  I  wish  young  mothers  would  meet  with 
us.  I  come  to  be  fed  and  to  gain  strength  ....  We  can  learn  many  good  things  from 
books,  but  we  learn  more  by  listening  to  the  experiences  of  others,  who  have  passed 
through  trials  and  borne  them  patiently  .... 
— Vilate  R.  Young,  Sec. 
Page  586