[Vol42 | September 1955 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Hanks]
So it is with my life and the influence of Relief Society in my mother's home: some few specific aspects of its influence I can now clearly see and remember; but this great auxiliary organization had a wider and more important meaning in our home than any certain set of lessons or experiences would seem adequate to indicate. 'This has been true, I am sure (and is today and will always be), in countless other homes where the wonderful influence of this prophetically established organization has been felt. Some time ago I visited my mother and found her chuckling over an entry she was reading from the minutes of a Relief Society meeting held 11 June, 1887. Having been involved in Relief Society work all THE INFLUENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE HOME the adult years of her life, as a member, literary and social science class leader, ward president for six depression years, stake board member, stake president for ten years, and, now again, as a faithful member, mother has maintained a lively interest in the organization and all its activities. The entry she was reading in the 1887 minute book follows: Sister Z. Smith said they were choice spirits that came to these meetings to be fed and urged all the sisters to arise to their feet and they would obtain a blessing. Sister Watmough advised the sisters to live nearer the Lord and thereby regain His presence. She said when the earth's foundations were laid "the sons of God shouted for joy," but no mention was made of the sisters being there. "'Let us do our duty and get along the side of the sons," she said. Sister Stevenson arose to correct the quotation referred to by Sister Watmough.. She said: " "The morning stars sang and the sons of God shouted for joy.' Sisters, we were the morning stars and we were there when the foundations of the earth were laid." This (to me) priceless and very humorous exchange might well be taken as indicative of the understanding and faith the wonderful women of the Relief Society have (and have always had) in the Church and gospel of Jesus Christ. The faithful women of the Church know that while the Priesthood is conferred upon the men, the highest blessings of the Priesthood can only be shared by man and woman together: "Neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without -the man, in the Lord" (I Cor. 11:11). The woman's place 567 in the Church is by the side of her husband, neither superior to him nor subservient to him. She might well be thought to be the "morning star" in the lives of her husband and family. Ywrat an incalculable boon it would be to the full realization of the Lord's purposes for the Church and its people, if every mother in the Church would understand and accept the responsibility of gaining (1) a personal knowledge of the principles of the gospel, and (2) a personal testimony of their truthfulness and divine origin, and then set about prayerfully and faithfully to live them and teach them to her children. It was the Prophet Joseph who said: "The Ladies' Relief Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls" (D. H. C., V, page 25). I am grateful beyond expression that my mother had the wisdom and inspiration to know that her own dedication to learning and living the gospel were vital to the faith of her children. The basic Relief Society objectives of developing faith, of studying and teaching the gospel, of participating in the full program of the Church—these were implicit in her home. Widowed early in life, with six minor children, ill herself, she found strength and courage in her faith in God and his revealed truths, and reared her family in the light of them. When outside influences and temptations beset some of us, her firmness and faith and high expectations for us helped to combat them; when some of us sometimes fell short of what we ought to have been, her calm cour- 568 age and confidence in us helped us to regain the ground. While I remember mother studying the gospel and preparing to teach its principles in her Relief Society and M. I. A. Classes, I do not now recall any specific occasions when we discussed them (though I am sure we did in our home evenings). I do not remember ever hearing, for instance, a specific discussion on the principle of faith at home, but I will never forget the lessons of faith I learned there. I could not have been more than three or four when my sainted father came back to visit mother and me as I slept in my little bed alongside hers. It was a time of deep difficulty and he had come to give encouragement and love. We talked the next morning of his visit, and there was no question in either mind that he had been there; each of us saw him and heard him and remembered what he said. Probably I was not yet five when a serious illness brought us to mother's bedside in the early morning hours. 'The first order of activity was to kneel there and pray to our Heavenly Father; the second was to run for our neighbor, Brother Kotter, to come to administer to her; the third was to discuss whether a doctor should be called. My first lesson in repentance and forgiveness I learned on mother's lap, sobbing out a confession of some childish misdeed, observing her sorrow and disappointment, and feeling the warmth of her love and the gentleness of her heart in her pardon. Among other truths we learned from our mother was a firsthand RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—SEPTEMBER 1955 lesson on honoring our parents. Mother's own pioneer mother came to live in our home the last years of her life. 'There was some talk from others outside the home about civic or other welfare assistance, and very little personal concern from some who should have been concerned. There was sometimes foolish (and now deeply lamented) youthful intolerance in grandmothers problems and difficulties. But none of this came from mother, the one who bore most of the burden. She truly honored her mother in health and in sickness, in happiness and in very trying circumstances. This lesson I'm sure I shall not forget nor cease being grateful for. As to obedience to the Lord's commandments, as to Church activity, as to courage, to us our mothers own life has always been the most impressive lesson available. ND how did the Relief Society program help in our home? The Relief Society would have all of its members "care for the poor, the sick, and the unfortunate," and "minister where death reigns." Just how important would it be to our Father in heaven and to our brother men to have this ideal realized in the lives of his children? I'm sure that countless homes of Relief Society workers reflect my own appreciation for learning this lesson. I could not number the hours nor occasions of friendship and loving sympathy given the ill, the sorrowing, the needy or fearful, the bereaved. Nor could I put a price on the worth of observing, as a youth, the activation of this ideal. My first remembered lesson in un- THE INFLUENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY IN THE HOME selfishness came with my weekly commission to carry a plate of warm dinner from our Sunday table up to old Sister Olsen on the corner, a plate usually prepared before our own meal was undertaken. Awareness that even the humblest and most modest of homes and individuals have something very vital to share with others came, as, in her Relief Society and other Church work, Mother, daily, gave freely of her love, faith, deep sympathy and understanding, of her encouragement and kindness, and of her meager material supply. QNE of the goals and objectives of the Relief Society organization is to "foster love for religion, education, culture, and refinement" in the lives of its members and all whom it touches. How wonderfully important this ideal should be in every L. D. S. Home!. Every complete life needs the direction and inspiration of religious truth, needs to be acquainted with the working areas of civics and political thought, needs the soul-lifting touch of wonderful literature and music. How grateful I am for the Relief Society work my mother did in teaching literature and social science! I first heard of Longfellow and Hawthorne, of Shelley, Keats, Byron, and Shakespeare through her studies. My first acquaintance with the names of Sir Walter Scott, of Lewis and Clark, of Sacajawea, came around the table as she talked of her lesson work. My first efforts to write poetry were based on her lovely poems, stimulated by her Relief Society labors. (As a little boy I once insulted a less literary minded four-year-old playmate by calling him "James 569 Whitcomb Riley," a°~ name I'd learned from a Relief Society lesson but which he thought was an epithet! ) The Lord has told us that the S, SP tulliess*omthercarth' (all those things which he has provided for our "benefit and use') is given us "both to strengthen the body and to enliven the soul" (D. & C. 59:16 ff). No life is really full which gives entire emphasis to material things and ignores the beautiful and cultural and inspirational in_ the world. No home meets its full opportunity which fails to awaken its inhabitants to an. Appreciation of these things; and it would seem to me that a mother does not meet the full possibilities of her parenthood who makes no effort to open the lives of her children to an enjoyment of them. Possibly no organization in. The Church is more awake to its responsibilities in the realm of the beautiful and cultural than the Relief Society. Some of the earliest and clearest memories of my youth are of the (to me, then) impossibly intricate quilts taking form on the quilting frames in our front room, with the ladies chatting happily as they painstakingly stitched the patterns. I remember, too, the rugs that were sewed and woven, the old phonograph records that were heated and softened and molded into trays and dishes, the cloth and paper and wire flowers that were fashioned, the piano-bench cover and the chair seats that were sewed or done in needlepoint, the vases that were made out of bottles covered with numerous bits of the lining of Christmas card envelopes and shel- 570 lacked. These early lessons in beauty included, too, the musical duets and choruses being practiced around our piano, and the sight and smell of bread and cookies and pies and cakes and chili made for the ward dinners and bazaars, where we each proudly identified our own mother's pies and her aprons and handiwork as they hung on display. OULD any mother be unaware of the importance of these activities in building a love of beauty and creativeness in the lives of her children? 'The poet Saadi said: If of thy mortal goods thou art bereft, And of thy slender store Two loaves alone to thee are left, Sell one and with the dole, Buy hyacinths to feed thy soul. God's gifts to man, he said, are to ".., Strengthen the body and to enliven the soul." A member of the Relief Society fully meeting the challenge of the organization's objectives would be diligently engaged in seeking "... To assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life."