[Vol42 | September 1955 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Poem | Title: To the Framers of the Constitution — Philadelphia 1787 | Author: Alberta H. Christensen]
A Perry Picture—Copyright 1904 INDEPENDENCE HALL, PHILADELPHIA So the otramers of the Constitution Philadelphia, 1787

Alberta H. Christensen Yames Madison — Keeper of the Word In journaled words, penned to the fractioned hour By you, James Madison, the Founding Fathers rise To their full stature, speak again with power, To press opinion, weigh, and summarize. Through you, we watch these architects survey A virgin acreage; avoiding silt And shifting sand, they strike foundation rock On which a house of freedom may be built. Through you, their fervor traces with a flame The corridor where freedom candles burn; A pulse restored beats in a printed name, For only you, with future sight, return The silenced voice, the echoing bells once heard. How history-wise you were — Keeper of the Word! George Washington —Counselor Where freedom balanced with uncertainty, You pressed no argument in bold debate (Although men sought your counsel privily) And yet your presence was the counterweight Against belief that liberty might fail. Not syllables — for your convention words were few; Trenton and Valley Forge and Yorktown spoke for you. * ke KK OK Look at your country now — George Washington, Counseled by freedom to a full maturity. Years upon years ago you helped to make it free, Your courage marshalling each patriot son. It was so young, so very much in need Of sound and prudent fathering, to keep It safe from injuries of greed. Hleart-deep Was your devotion, your faith as firm as stone; You guided well its first uncertain steps Until the infant Nation had strength to walk alone! Batjamin Foren filer © as nari You were the oarsman, Ben, that vital season Of seventeen eighty-seven, though few Would know, outside the square, white paneled room Where Freedom's charter faltered on the reef Of sharp debate. Here reason sparred with reason, And calm nerves tensed, but you adroitly steered The boats of thought to wharves of compromise; You smoothed the waves of tension when you veered From currents of dissent into an alternate Of peaceful words and unified belief. Word injuries were healed in that recess Your seasoned thinking urged, and oh, how wise The sparkling jest—though you were eighty-two— That checked the windy-words forecasting doom. Thus great men fashioned phrases to express Our human nights, inherent and inviolate.