[Vol42 | September 1955 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Berry]
[POETRY To the Framers of the Constitution — Philadelphia 1787 — Frontispiece ....Alberta H. Christensen 560 Autumn Testament Christie Lund Coles 571 Homeward Turning Margery S. Stewart 578 Reaper Leone E. McCune 585 Autumn Pilgrim Beatrice A. DiEnes 595 Pulse of Peace Dorothy J. Roberts 596 Hermit Thrush Ethel Jacobson 603 The Gathering Hour Eva Willes Wangsgaard 606 Transient Beatrice K. Ekman 623 Contrast LilUan S. Knudson 623 Signs of Autumn Catherine E. Berry]
refined  poetry  which  fit  his  subject.

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
635 
SyngCy  the  Aitist 
We  can  now  see  more  clearly 
that  Synge  was  entirely  the  artist, 
entirely  unconcerned  with  problems 
of  the  present  in  his  eagerness  to 
stand  aside  and  watch  the  basic 
realities  of  man's  timeless  existence 
as  exemplified  in  unspoiled,  spon- 
taneous Irish  peasantry,  who  were, 
he  felt,  the  rightful  heirs  to  the 
superstitions,  legends,  and  ageless 
ways  of  thinking  and  enduring 
which  were  the  richest  heritage  of 
Ireland.  The  care  with  which  he 
wrote  reveals  his  high  esteem  for 
his  art  and  materials.  He  composed 
on  a  portable  typewriter,  revising 
and  rewriting  as  many  as  thirteen 
times  before  he  was  satisfied.  He 
worked  for  months  over  a  sentence 
and  strained  endlessly  for  just  the 
right  word.  But  once  he  achieved 
a  version  which  satisfied  him,  he 
trusted  his  intuition  completely, 
and  never  changed  one  word  or  line 
in  any  of  his  finished  plays. 
The  Nature  oi  Drama 
.  .  .  the  purpose  of  playing,  whose  end, 
both  at  the  first  and  now,  was  and  is,  to 
hold,  as  'twere,  the  mirror  up  to  nature; 
to  show  virtue  her  own  feature,  scorn 
her  own  image,  and  the  very  age  and 
body  of  the  time  his  form  and  pressure 
[resemblance]. 
(Hamlet:  Act  3,  Scene  2) 
Thus  Hamlet  spoke  to  the  play- 
ers the  purposes  of  drama,  nor  can 
he  be  improved  on.  In  common 
with  all  fiction,  drama,  too,  aims  to 
recreate  reality,  to  put  in  the  actor's 
mouth  words  that  seem  real,  to 
create  real  people,  to  reproduce  the 
conflicts  and  laughter  of  real  Jife. 
Or  so  it  seems. 
Actually  a  play  is  no  more  real 
than  a  poem  or  a  story,  but  that 
makes  it  more  valuable  and  desir- 
able, not  less  so.  For  life  may  seem 
monotonous  and  shapeless,  and 
from  the  dawn  of  mankind  people 
have  hungered  to  recreate  the  forces 
and  peoples  about  them,  just  as 
children  imitate  animals  and  adults 
or  act  out  a  scene.  It  is  the  special 
task  of  art  to  select,  to  condense, 
and  to  sharpen  actuality.  This  is 
done  by  every  successful  play  or 
movie— successful,  that  is,  if  it  cre- 
ates the  illusion  of  reality.  We  must 
recall  that  we  read  plays  and  attend 
plays  and  movies  with  the  hope  of 
being  fooled:  it  isn't  real  life  at  all. 
But  while  we  know  we  are  being 
fooled,  we  love  it,  that  is,  if  the  il- 
lusion of  reality  seems  real  and  the 
artificiality  of  scenery  or  plots  or 
language  is  not  apparent. 
This  universal  enjoyment  at  mak- 
ing life  live  again  is  healthy  and  re- 
warding, particularly  if  the  reader 
of  a  play  will  use  his  own  creative 
imagination  to  make  every  gesture, 
tone  of  voice,  movement,  and  action 
come  alive.  Then  he  can  make  the 
play  almost  as  powerful  as  if  the 
stage  were  directly  before  him. 
Then,  too,  he  is  ready  to  sense  the 
conflict  which  is  basic  in  all  drama, 
as  in  life,  and  to  see  how,  through 
the  resolution  of  the  conflict,  or 
resignation  to  it,  the  author  of  the 
play  has  shown  us,  with  the  play  as 
mirror,  some  virtue  or  scorn  or  pres- 
sure of  life  which  we  see  now  for 
ourselves,  and  which  has  been 
known  universally  by  all  mankind. 
The  Irish  National  Theater 
In  the  spirit  of  rising  nationalism, 
a  group  of  young  people  at  Trinity 
College,  in  Dublin,  formed  a 
'Toung  Ireland"  Club  as  early  as

636 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— SEPTEMBER  1955 
1848.  Its  purpose  was  to  stimulate 
interest  in  Ireland's  past:  the  Gaelic 
language,  Irish  legend,  folklore,  and 
her  national  heroes  such  as  Cuchu- 
lain  (Ku  ku  lin)  and  Diedre  (Da- 
thre).  When  the  Irish  politicians 
sought  to  rouse  Irishmen  to  pride 
in  their  nationalism,  it  was  inevit- 
able that  the  goal  of  the  'Toung 
Ireland"  group  be  intensified  and 
made  dominant  in  Ireland.  Hence 
in  the  eighties  many  clubs  sprang 
up  which  taught  the  Gaelic  tongue. 
To  the  despair  of  the  English, 
checks  were  signed  in  Gaelic,  rail- 
road timetables  and  road  signs  were 
written  in  Gaelic,  and  part  of  the 
daily  newspapers  appeared  in  Gae- 
lic. 
This  same  spirit  produced  the 
Irish  Renaissance  in  poetry  and 
drama  beginning  just  before  the 
turn  of  the  century.  Lady  Gregory 
and  Yeats  were  convinced  that  Ire- 
land could  regain  her  old  intellec- 
tual and  artistic  vigor  only  by  going 
back  to  the  sources  of  Irish  great- 
ness, not  only  in  legends  and  poems, 
but  as  summed  up  in  the  present 
Irish  character.  These  they  depict- 
ed in  plays  which  they  wrote  and 
performed,  first,  in  1899,  in  the 
organization  called  The  Irish  Na- 
tional Theater.  This  group  met 
with  varying  success,  but  it  pro- 
duced many  plays  about  Ireland, 
written  by  Yeats  and  Lady  Gregory 
and  other  Irishmen.  In  1904  it  was 
reorganized  as  the  Abbey  Theatre  in 
Dublin,  a  group  of  players  at  first 
composed  of  average  working-class 
people  who  participated  as  recrea- 
tion and  as  a  patriotic  obligation. 
This  troupe  has  toured  America  in- 
numerable times,  and  is  today  one 
of  the  outstanding  groups  of  play- 
ers. 
In  its  first  year  of  organization 
Synge  was  made  a  co-director  of  the 
Abbey  Theatre,  and  his  play  Riders 
to  the  Sea  was  produced.  Though 
it  was  not  the  notorious  success  that 
Playboy  was,  it  was  highly  esteemed, 
since  it  revealed  the  considerable 
powers  Synge  had  already  shown 
in  his  first  play.  In  the  Shadow  of 
the  GJen,  produced  a  year  earlier. 
Riders  to  the  Sea 
The  scene  is  laid  in  the  kitchen 
of  a  fishing  hut  on  the  west  coast  of 
Ireland.  Maurya,  an  aged  fisher- 
man's widow,  who  has  already  lost 
to  the  sea  four  sons  and  a  husband, 
has  been  waiting  for  nine  days  to 
learn  whether  her  son,  Michael, 
has  also  been  drowned.  A  priest 
has  brought  clothes  from  distant 
Donegal  for  the  family  to  identify; 
Cathleen  and  Nora,  Maurya's  daugh- 
ters, fearing  they  might  be  Michael's, 
keep  them  from  their  mother,  who 
is  trying  to  prevent  Bartley,  her 
youngest  son,  from  going  to  sea 
during  a  storm.  But  he  feels  he 
must  go,  so  without  his  mother's 
blessing,  he  goes  to  get  his  horse 
and  leaves.  Her  daughters  chafe 
her  for  withholding  her  blessing,  so 
she  goes  to  bestow  it,  and  the  girls 
examine  the  bundle  of  clothing  and 
find  them  to  be  Michael's.  As  moth- 
er Maurya  waits  at  the  *'spring- 
well"  for  Bartley,  she  has  a  vision 
of  the  dead  Michael  riding  near 
Bartley  on  a  gray  pony;  spellbound, 
she  says  nothing  to  Bartley  as  he 
rides  by  to  the  sea.  She  returns 
home,  and  still  almost  horror-bound 
tells  her  experience  to  her  daugh- 
ters, scarcely  hearing  when  they  tell