Through Thick and Thin Nellie Iverson Cox AYBREAK on the plains began with a faint, golden glow in the east that spread until it suffused the whole big, blue bowl of sky. From numerous campfires along the river arose the smell of cooking food, and especially tantalizing were the odors that were wafted from the direction of the logwalled trading post, where fresh buffalo steaks simmered. Tina and Mercedes awoke together, as they did most things, and _ sniffed the fragrant air. At first they could not remember where they were, and then came the memory of the long miles they had traveled behind the slow oxen in this strange land of America. Hurriedly, they arose from their hard couch and began to roll up their bedding. Their mother was half stooped over the fire where she had been preparing breakfast, but something in the tenseness of her attitude caused their eyes to follow the direction of her gaze, and they saw _ their big red ox standing with slackened tether and closed eyes, unmindful of the clumps of grass which his team mate was eagerly cropping. "Something ails Bolly," said June Bolton in her clipped English voice, indicating the beast with his drooping head and hollow sides. "Oh, Mother, will he die?" "Most of them do," she replied, "if they once get sick." The two children looked at each other horrified, each face mirroring Page 440 the distress that was in the other. To have tragedy strike when they had come so far on their journey and were so near their goal was more than they could well bear. "Well, well," came a dry voice behind them, "it looks like "Thick' and "Thin' are rarin' to go." The girls grimaced a trifle distastefully. They were not sure they liked Mr. Galloway, with his handle-bar mustache and his affinity for sobriquets. Because of Tina's plumpness and Mercedes' thinness, Mr. Galloway — had dubbed them Thick and Thin when he had first joined the company back in Iowa. They remembered the first time they had seen him. 'They had accompanied their mother to the stockyards, where she had gone to purchase animals for the journey across the plains. Mrs. Bolton had spoken up decisively when a large, red ox had been led out, "That one will do, and that one with the white face." "The little lady knows her oxen," an amused voice had drawled. "That she does, Mr. Galloway," agreed the dealer. _So they had learned his name and also that he must be a person of some consequence. It was at the feed yard where they had gone to buy grain for their animals, that they had seen him next. "No offense, Ma'am," he had said politely, doffing his huge, western hat, "but surely you aren't going alone across the plains!" THROUGH THICK AND THIN "Indeed, I'm going," their mother had replied, "but I'll not be alone." The girls knew that she meant that God would be with them, but Mr. Galloway did not seem to know that, for he had said, "Oh, you are _ traveling with a company, | know, but you are a woman, and there will be difficulties that you do not dream of, fierce Indians, breakdowns, lack of food, thirst, sickness. Why don't you wait until the railroad is completed? Haven't you friends you can stay with?" "There is no reason for you to be disturbed on my account; I can take care of myseif," replied their mother shortly. Indeed, she had taken care of herself and her children, too, since their father had left and never returned from a voyage. There had probably been no finer seamstress in Derby than the Widow Bolton, as she had been called. After buying the oxen, she had completed her purchases, which were placed in the large, canvastopped wagon, together with the few articles they had brought from England and the supplies that must do them on the journey. 'I'hen they had returned to the campsite to be ready for an early start the following morning. The two girls wondered that their mother showed so little surptise when Mr. Galloway's wagon had pulled into the caravan ahead of their own just before starting time. 'They learned that he was on his way to Oregon. The handsome horses he drove testified of his prosperity, but he wore no airs because of that, but, on account of his friendliness, he made himself 441 liked by all. At night he camped a stone's throw from their own camp and sometimes strolled over, generally with some little gift, a sweetmeat, or a bit of food left from his own ample meal. He was jolly and seemed anxious to be friends, but, copying their mother's attitude, the girls maintained a distant, aloof manner. * a * * * RS. Bolton turned from the fire with the bowl of cornmeal mush she had just dipped out. C "Good morning, Mr. Galloway. I presume you are ready to travel?" She was like that, always briskly self-sufficient, never fawning nor asking favors, thought Tina and Mercedes, who hoped to be like that themselves, some day, but right now, Mr. Galloway's little