Work Meeting) Preview of Lessons for 1950-51 Christine H. Robinson HE work meeting lessons for 1950-51, "The Art of HomeMaking," have three fundamental objectives. First, they are designed to show all Latter-day Saint women how, through the intelligent application of a few simple principles and guides, they can make their - homes more livable and attractive. Second, they are planned to encourage all Relief Society members, through full use of their own talents and skills, to be real homemakers as well as fine housekeepers. Third, they have the objective of encouraging all of us, through more thoughtful planning, to furnish our homes with maximum economy. The home and our family unit lie at the heart of the gospel plan. As Latter-day Saints we are homeloving people. We know the important part a successful home can play in the molding of sound characters and in the development of wholesome personalities. With these fundamental convictions, we must constantly do everything within our powers to create the kind of homes which make us happy and in which our children can feel a sense of security and pride. Although it takes more than carpets, furniture, draperies, pictures, mirrors, and other furnishings to make a home, these physical things, when selected with good taste and intelligence, can do much to establish an appropriate atmosphere in which the real spirit of the home can develop. This course of study consists of eight lessons covering various basic home decorating problems. Each lesson, after a discussion of principles, methods, and _ techniques, lists a number of discussion points. These discussion points are designed as springboards for. Group discussions. Rather than using them merely as questions to be answered during the lesson period, we suggest you employ them as assignments, for the purpose of bringing in additional materials of specific interest to the members of your society. The subjects of the lessons are as follows: oe? Lesson 1. "Let's be Homemakers as Well as Housekeepers." This is an introductory lesson designed to establish the importance of the home, and to indicate some of the interesting challenges faced by the successful homemaker.