[Vol1 | August 1914 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Lesson III]

HEALTH AND HYGIENE Lesson in.  The Fly, A Disease Carrier Forty Minutes.
Typhoid FeverIts Prevention.  Note Please be sure to read carefully the leaflets accompanying the Bulletin and get the full meaning of the illustrated page on the fly.
Also suggest that each member of the Relief Society shall commit to memory and repeat to herself each day the four Dont's on the illustrated page.
12 .
The Fly.
What can you say of the fly in regard to filth?
How many stages of development of the fly are there?
Please name them.
Where are the eggs deposited?
Describe the stages of growth and tell how long it takes for the fly to 'become fully developed.
How many eggs will one fly lay?
Where are the greatest number of flies hatched?
Is there any way of eliminating flies?
How?
Name some of the diseases which are carried by flies.
How can footstuffs exposed for sale be protected?
What can you, as an individual, do toward exterminating flies?
May a neighborhood be kept free from flies?
How?
How may "bottle babies" be protected from the sickness that is carried by flies?
Would you consider the cost in labor, cleanliness and materials too much if you could get rid of flies?
Exterminating the Flies.
Please name all the methods that can be suggested for exterminating the fly pest in its breeding places.
How may mature flies be destroyed?
Which is the most efficient way of all for destroying flies?
How may they be killed after being hatched?
IMay we not all be justified in assuming that the campaign against the fly will ere long render our cities and our country places entirely free from this dangerous pest?
Typhoid Fever, What is typhoid fever?
How is the typhoid baccillus, or germ, given off?
How is the fever caused?
How does the disease enter the system?
How may typhoid be transmitted or passed from one person to another?
Water Supply.
When there is no water system to carry the supply from an elevated source, what may happen to the water?
Where there is no sewer system to carry off the waste from homes, tell how the outbuildings become the source of danger.
What is the most usual way of carrying typhoid fever?
Name three ways in which milk may become infested.
.
13 Tell three ways in which fresh vegetables may become infected.
Can you give any reason for outbreaks or epidemics of typhoid?
Are there any ways of checking or preventing this dreadful disease?
Where there is no sewer system what should every home have?
Answer: A sanitary privy.
Tell all you can about the following points:  First Keeping milk supply  Second Keeping water supply.  Third The sanitary privy.
Tell all you can about the sanitary care of a typhoid patient and what should always be done with excreta from the sick room.
Also tell what should be done with the washable clothing, the bed linen, and the eating utensils.
How dispose of valueless articles from sick room?
How to take care of slops from the sickroom when there is a sewer?
When there is not a sewer?
How should the nurse take care of her hands?
What is used for different per cent solutions?
What can be said of carbolic acid as a disinfectant?
Tell something important to remember about persons apparently recovered from the disease.  Note.
In general discussions exchange views as to sanitary conditions of your own homes and your own town.
It would be interesting and profitable for the sisters to read the inspired sanitary laws taught by Moses to his people as found in Exodus and Leviticus in connection with these modern lessons and suggestions on hygiene.
AugustWORK AND BUSINESS Lesson