[Vol29 | February 1942 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Social ScienceFuture of Life]
A Social Science Foundations Of Successful Marriage Lesson 7
The Future Of Marriage And Family Life (Tuesday, May 26, 1942) Lesson Aim: To better appreciate the value of the family as a social institution, to understand some of the challenges which face it today, to visualize the future, and to come to a realization of what must be done if this future is to be a bright one. URING the last four years we have explored the highways and the byways of marriage, and in so doing we have reached a better appreciation of its values and a better understanding of its problems. The adventure has been a thrilling and challenging one. We have moved bravely and yet cautiously; honestly and yet reverently. We have attempted to examine and analyze the intricacies of family life much as the chemist would analyze the elements of a compound or the physicist would analyze the inner workings of an electrical system. And while the problems have been too complicated for final and absolute answers to be possible, we have, nevertheless, learned much. For example, we have learned that the most supreme joys which life holds for man may be obtained in successful family life, and that the roots of this success reach deep into childhood and then spread throughout life. But although we have journeyed far, we have a long way yet to go.
Marriage will never be made happy by just thinking and talking about it; family life will never be made successful by Relief Society study courses alone. The road ahead is the road of action. But before deciding what shall be our course in shaping the future of the family, let us look once more, and a little more fully perhaps, at what is already taking place. The Family, in Transition Social life is dynamic. At no time in human history has society been at a standstill; and since the family is an intrinsic part of broader society, it too has always been in a state of flux. But the tempo of social change has been greatly accelerated in recent years; inventions have been piling up, and new customs have been substituted for the old in rather rapid succession. 'The family has been no exception to all of this; it too has been sucked into the whirl of social change and is even now awaiting the outcome. The family, as never before, is in a state of transition.
Evidence of this is not at all difficult to find.
Social change is often disturbing and disorganizing; and with the family we see abundant evidence of such disorganization in the unhappy and broken homes about us.
Marriage failure would be far less common if we were living in a different age; problems of courtship and marriage would be far less frequent if the tempo of social life could be slowed down. We cannot live in a different age, but we can control and direct social change to some extent; and therein lies a hope. It may be well to summarize some of the major changes that have been, and are, taking place in the family institution: (1) In the first place, the family has been losing many of the major functions it formerly performed; the educational function has been taken over largely by schools; the religious function has been almost completely given over to the churches; the recreational function has been usurped by commercialized agencies; the governmental or protective function has been passed on to the state for the most part; the economic function has partially remained, as far as consumption is concerned, but production has left the family unit; and, with the rapidly decreasing birth rate, the biological or reproductive function of the family has suffered a decline. The early family was strong because it had so many useful functions to perform, but with the loss of these there often isn't much left to hold the modern family together.
There are those who say that the affectional function is about all there is for the present-day family to stand upon; and in a great many cases that is certainly true. The family has been.
Materially weakened by the loss of so many of its functions. (2) In the second place, urbanization has played a part in the disorganization of family life. The trend of population from the country to the city has tended to undermine and destroy many of the 

 —FEBRUARY, 1942 LESSON DEPARTMENT finer things about the home.
Life in the city is complex, and its tempo is rapid; apartment dwellings are crowded and uncomfortable; people's nerves are irritated by the noise, crowding, and speed around them; children are often in the way and are not wanted.
When we compare urban families with those in rural areas we find that those in the city are smaller and are more often broken up by desertion, separation, or divorce.
Urban life is not as conducive to successful marriage as is the simple and peaceful life of the country. (3) A third factor affecting the stability of the family is the change that has been going on regarding the social relationships between men and women. The growing equality between them is disorganizing to say the least. We are not arguing that women should not be equal with men. On the contrary, we believe that they should be. But what we are saying is that the process of emancipation makes necessary new social adjustments, and that many of these adjustments haven't as yet been made. The end result will likely be very much worth while, but in the meantime we must endure a certain amount of confusion, conflict, and struggle for adjustment. In gaining their freedom, women have too often taken on the vices of men before they have the virtues; too often they have grown selfish and independent and _ irresponsible; too often women in recent years have tried to imitate men and compete with them in man's traditional sphere of influence rather than raising the sphere of women to an equal, though complementary, level. | These are only a few of the social 139 changes which have profoundly effected the family, and all of these various factors of social change dovetail. The important thing to keep in mind is that the family is in transition, and that transition often means trouble. Some Attempts to Save Marriage clinics are a relatively new development in this country.
Until quite recently we were giving expensive specialized training for the various trades and professions, but forgetting the greatest profession of all—marriage; we had thousands of garages where our broken cars could be repaired, but no place to take broken marriages for help.
Marriage clinics arose to meet this need. The first was the Institute of Family Relations organized by Doctor Paul Popenoe in Los Angeles during 1930. 'The movement soon spread, and at the present time there are thirty or more clinics operating in various cities throughout the country.
They usually function as to both pre-marital preparation and post-marital adjustment; their work is that of diagnosis and treatment; their method is that of case study, education, and counseling. The work of these clinics has been quite satisfactory up to date.
They are too few in number, and their programs are likely too limited to meet the need entirely, but they have nevertheless been successful in saving many marriages from failure and in giving many others a good start.
Besides these clinics, specialized to deal with marriage problems, a great many other individuals and organizations have taken an active interest in marriage problems.
Schools have recently been adding the sub- 140 |  ject of Courtship and Marriage to their curriculum. At the present time there are literally hundreds of such courses in the universities of America. _ Religious organizations have been outlining courses in this field for discussion groups.
Social workers have been more and more turning their attention to counseling in family case work.
Lawyers have, recently become interested in Courts of Domestic Relations, where the emphasis is on reconciliation of marital difficulties rather than on divorce.
Doctors likewise have become interested in the social and psychological aspects of marriage problems, and they are giving advice more freely. All of these are sane approaches to what needs to be done. The problems of marriage and family life are becoming quite generally recognized, and many people are taking up the challenge in a manner that is both praiseworthy and full of hope. The Job Ahead There is much yet to be done, however. The future of marriage and family life will depend more upon the way in which we tackle the job ahead than upon the social changes of the past.
Change is inevitable, but the direction of change can be determined by man. We cannot stop the great social forces which shape the destinies of men, but we can steer them into channels that are beneficial.
This is our challenge and our job. The first thing in the task before us is to recognize that the family is the primary institution of all institutions to which man belongs. No society ever has been, or likely ever can be, without it. It is the first group into which the infant is initiated; it is the group in which the major part of one's life is spent; it is the last group to which man says his farewells upon departing from this life. The family provides for the most intimate, the most influential, and the most satisfying of human relationships. It is here that ambition is kindled, ideals are implanted, character is formed.
Fundamental values of family life center around: (1) the personality needs of husband and wife; and (2) the procreation, care, and training of children.
These values can be fully realized in no other way than through successful family life. The first step in the task before us is to realize that there are values in the family worth preserving, that successful marriage is worth fighting for. The second step is to come to an understanding of the problems in the field and the principles to be applied in their solution. The Relief Society has attempted to give this understanding through its lesson series of the last four years. We have seen the changes going on in the family and the challenges which face it today; we have observed a great amount of marriage failure and have tried to analyze some of the reasons for this; we have come to realize that the foundations for successful marriage are related to every age and to every phase of life, and we have attempted to set down a few rules to be applied in the attainment of successful marriage and family life.
Among these rules or principles are the following: (1) Pay attention to the heritage of the home.
Foundations for marriage are laid long before the actual ceremony takes place; the roots for happiness LESSON DEPARTMENT in marriage lie deep within the childhood experiences of the home. (2) Step through courtship rather carefully. The conduct and the decisions of the courting period are of extreme importance to the success or failure of marriage later on. (3) Begin well in the marriage adventure. The choice of a partner, the time and the nature of the ceremony, proper adjustments at the beginning, learning the art of mutual enrichment, all are essential to maturing and enduring love. (4) Face the problems of married life courageously, honestly, and responsibly. The attitude which makes us more interested in responsibilities and jobs than in rights and privileges is the attitude which will make marriage, or anything else, succeed. (5) Handle the economic affairs of the home in such a way that each is able to contribute as well as share in the benefits.
Money matters mean a lot to marital happiness, but where each does his part, where family members are willing to live within their means, where the control of the family purse is somewhat democratic, and where spending and planning are wisely indulged in, the family cannot go far wrong.
These are only a few of the things that should be kept in mind for happiness in family life. The summary is necessarily brief, but it will likely help us crystallize our understanding of the problems and principles of successful marriage. The third and last step is to actually do something about the job _ ahead. We have come to better appreciate the family as a social institution, and we have learned much about the problems which face it, but unless we are willing to go be- 141 yond good intentions and verbal expressions, all that we have done thus far will largely come to naught. Latter-day Saints are fortunate in their rich and beautiful religious heritage, a heritage that stresses the seriousness and the sacredness of family life and that stimulates effort and achievement for causes that are great.
Successful family life is a great cause; marriage is both a sacred responsibility and a golden opportunity. Relief Society women can do a great deal to improve the happiness of the home, both for themselves and for others about them. And the future of the family will depend to no small extent upon the way they accept this challenge.
Problems and Projects 1. Do we live at a faster pace today than formerly?
Give evidences of the increasing tempo of social life. Why does rapid change make problems of marriage and the family more difficult? | What major functions has the family lost and what effect has this had upon its stability? How has urbanization affected the family? How has the emancipation of woman affected the family? 2.
What are marriage clinics, and what do they aim to do?
What other agencies and professions are now becoming interested in the field of marriage preparation and preservation? Do you think these are sound approaches to the problem? Why? 3. We have talked considerably about the foundations for successful marriage; now what is the job ahead?
What are the three steps outlined in the lesson for handling this job? | Why does successful marriage depend upon action as well as attitude and understanding? References Baber, Ray E., Marriage and the Family, McGraw Hill, New York, 1939, pp. 3-21, 585-638. Beatty, Jerome, "Love Need Not Be Blind," Reader's Digest, April, 1938, pp. 94-96. Bigelow, W. F., (editor), Good Housekeeping Marriage Book, Prentice-Hall, Inc., New York, 1938, pp. 154-166. Burkhart, Roy A., Thinking About Marnage, Association Press, New York, 1934, 5s ee Editorial, "Fighting Breakdowns In Marriage," Literary Digest, April 25, 1936, p- 17-18. Elhott, Mabel A. And Merrill, Francis E., Social Disorganization, Harpers, New — York, 1934, PP. 423-459. Folsom, J. K., Plan for Marriage, Harpers, New York, 1938, pp. 256-284. Groves, Ernest R., Marriage, Henry Holt and Co., New York, 1933, pp. 3-15. Hart, Hornell, Personality and the Family, D. C.
