[Vol29 | February 1942 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: Survey of Registered and Nurses]
Survey of Registered and Practical Nlurses HE General Board of Relief Society will conduct a survey of all registered and practical nurses in the various wards and branches of the Church during the month of February.
Survey forms for this purpose are being distributed to ward and branch Relief Society presidents on which to list the names and other information relating to all registered and practical nurses residing in the various wards and branches of the Church. All m4 —C  women in the various wards are urged to cooperate with their ward Relief Society presidents in the preparation of as accurate and complete a list of nurses as is possible. It is requested that all women who are either registered or practical nurses report their names to their ward or branch Relief Society presidents, and that all members of the Society assist their local Relief Society presidents by giving them the names of women living in the ward or branch whom they know to be either practical or registered NUISES. New Books THE Message of the Twelve Prophets by Sidney B. Sperry, Ph. D., head of the department of Bible and Modern Scriptures, Bigham Young University, is a new book which merits careful reading. The book is a scholarly treatise on the Minor Prophets of the Old 'Testament.
According to the preface, the book was written "to supply students with suitable reading materials concerning these great figures of ancient Israel, and to furnish the average intelligent reader with an interpretation and discussion of the Minor Prophets that shall lead to a finer appreciation of them, their works, and their importance for this generation." The author has interpreted these prophets in the light of the Gospel as revealed in this dispensation.
This book is an excellent contribution to Church literature and a good reference book for the home library.. It may be purchased at the Deseret Book Company, 44
East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, price $2. SECOND War In Heaven is the title of a new book by Professor N. L. Nelson, author of Preaching and Public Speaking and The Scientific Aspects of Mormonism. In the foreword to this new volume Professor Nelson states, "Bewilderment and fear are just now gripping the world.... We call it the second world war. In reality it is the first resumed with increased fury.... War books are appearing by the scores, all attempting to set forth the causes behind the raging conflict. 'They enlighten us only by bits, however, for the simple reason that their perspectives are too short.... What is needed to clarify our bewilderment.'.. Is one Mighty Perspective touching infinity in the Past, cutting a clear swath through the jungles of the Present, and then lighting up, also to the bounds of infinity, a faith-appealing way through the mists of the Future." Such a perspective Professor Nelson aims to contribute in his new: book. The book may be purchased from Prof. N. L. Nelson, Downey, Idaho, price $1.50. SECOND edition of Autumn Leaves, a book of poems by Winnifred Morris 'Tibbs, is now off the press. Thirty-five new poems appear in this new edition, and all poems included in the book have been written since the eightieth birthday of the author. The poems reveal the wide tange of interests of the author as well as her wholesome philosophy of life. 'This book may be purchased from Winnifred M. Tibbs, 1376
