[Vol29 | February 1942 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Songs of the Derbyshire]

Te SONGS OF THE PIONEERS Leslie Derbyshire The Pioneers sang the stirring songs That my grateful soul reveres; Sing me the songs that these great men brought, The songs they sang as they toiled and fought, The songs of the Pioneers. Than this, there's no more thrilling melody in all the world:. "The Morning Breaks, The Shadows Flee, Lo! Zion's Standard is Unfurled." When rumor and falsehood and cruel guile Cast their sharp and poisonous spears, When angry words are quick to start, Sing me the songs that will calm my heart, The songs of the Pioneers. Though torn with strife and passion I shall swiftly be made whole By "School Thy Feelings, O My Brother, Train Thy Warm, Impulsive Soul." In the days to come when my faltering soul The long, hard journey fears; When the dark shadows reach my door, Sing me the songs that I hunger for, The songs of the Pioneers. Though dark my heart, 'twill swell with faith to hear, "Come, Come, Ye Saints, No Toil nor Labor Fear." Sing me the songs that stir my soul As my journey's end appears; When the ebbing days flow swift and fleet, Sing me the songs that will make them sweet, The songs of the Pioneers. For these songs will help me greet Thee with a calm and tranquil grace, "O My Father, Thou That Dwellest in the High and Glorious Place." ties do they reveal? 3. What is the meaning of the millenyears? Can you uproot qualities in you that do not go with life there?. Are you
LESSON DEPARTMENT 147
What, No Candy? From the files of the Utah Writers' Project, WPA. DURING the first years following the pioneer occupation of Utah's valleys, persons possessing a "sweet tooth" must have suffered perpetually, but not from toothache caused by sweets, for there was practically no sugar or sweetening to be had at any price. In those days, people were more concerned with getting themselves and their families to the new land than with transporting adequate supplies of sugar across the plains. Overland freight costs were prohibitive after the Mormons located in Utah, and sugar in general could be purchased only as a medicine for babies—at prices approximately a dollar a pound. Tackling this problems, human ingenuity came to the rescue of the housewife by providing a substitute, which though primitive, nevertheless served the general purpose of sweetening. The first substance produced was a form of corn molasses, made from pressing the juice from corn stalks with a series of wooden rollers. Typical of this type of mill was one constructed at Centerville by Joel Partrish. Honey was, of course, the best substitute, and bee culture was applauded. In certain localities, a form of sugar was made by boiling the sap of trees and plants; a type of gum formed on the leaves of certain trees was also found to produce sugar by boiling and evaporation. In the early fifties, Chinese cane was transplanted in Utah, and with the introduction of iron rollers sugar mills turned out a greatly improved product. It was many years later, however, before a combination of overland freighting and local sugar beet industry completely met the demands for sweet stuffs in the territory. (POT 0 0 T 0 00 0 0) P-W's Mountain Grown MAKE A VICTORY GARDEN FOOD WILL HELP WIN THE WAR Get P-W's New Garden Book The complete planting guide. It tells HOW. WHAT and WHEN for those dependable Seeds -Shrubs-Trees This book will be sent FREE to any home owner on request. Just mention this magazine and send your name and address today. PORTER-WALTON CO. "Seed and Nursery Specialists"' SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH =o cD OD OD OC OO COC 0 (PIT SoC Do CD OCD OC DOC DO CD OC DOC OCD OCD OCD OCD ODO CD OC DoD OC OO OOD ODOC eo oso ce mo mo Do Sao oo Cao Hoo Ho ao Ho ao Ho oc o coco ocHocso