The WINTER TERM begins January 4. Make your reservation
D. S. Information gladly furnished on request
Compare Otarion's size, tone, economy with Otarion. Call or write for a own home or in our office.
511 McIntyre Building
Onward, Relief Society'
Relief Society... One hundred years of unswerving devotion lie behind you. The history of the Relief Society runs parallel to, and is closely allied with, the social and political progress made by women everywhere during that time. You have proved your worth, you-have won your spurs.
What lies ahead? Everyone is wondering, many with not too great assurance. But the Relief Society has proved in troublous times past, that sacrifice and hardship simply afford greater opportunity for the use of that capacity for service which is peculiarly its own.
We salute you at the beginning of this anniversary year. We have enjoyed our associations with the General Board and many individual members of the Relief Society. Our aim is to continue to serve you well in our particular field.
THE DESERET NEWS PRESS
29 Richards Street Salt Lake City, Utah
RELIEF SOCIETY Centennial Supplies NOW AVAILABLE FOR PURCHASE
OFFICIAL CENTENNIAL SEAL
The official centennial insignia has been beautifully reproduced in the Relief Society colors, blue and gold, on gummed seals the same size as the reproduction above. These are suitable for use on programs, booklets, letterheads, invitations, place-cards, and for similar purposes in connection with centennial celebrations, or for other purposes during the centennial year.
Price, 10c per 100, postpaid. Not available in lots of less than 100.
MARKERS FOR CENTENNIAL TREES
Cast bronze markers for Relief Society centennial memorial trees are now ready. These markers have been especially made for this purpose and bear the inscription 'Relief Society Centennial Tree?1942'' in raised letters. The markers are three inches in diameter and attached to a 12-inch pipe made to be imbedded in concrete so that they cannot be pried loose.
Price $2.25, postpaid.
CENTENNIAL SONGS
A SONG OF TRIUMPH, words and music by the late Beatrice F. Stevens, 2 pages, 5c per copy. Postpaid.
IN THY FORM, words by Dr. Carlton Culmsee, music by Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen. 7 pages, 10c per copy. Postpaid.
These two songs are punched to fit the loose-leaf RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOK.
RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOK
The third edition of the RELIEF SOCIETY SONG BOOK has just come off the press. This book is exactly like the two former editions with the addition of three new songs?the two centennial songs listed above and a new hymn, ''O Father, Keep Us We Pray.' The price of the new book including the three new songs is $1.00 postpaid.
BINDER FOR RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
This is a substantial. Well-made binder, into which a total of twelve single copies of the Relief Society Magazine may be inserted or removed at will. This binder is covered in blue Fabrikoid, with the title Relief Society Magazine stamped in gold. This binder is a great convenience to Relief Society officers, class leaders, and other subscribers desiring to keep a current year's issue of the Magazine together.
Price 75c, postpaid.
All articles listed above are obtainable only from General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
RELIEF SOCIETY Centennial Personal Souvenirs
CENTENNIAL COMMEMORATIVE PLATE
This pottery plate, 10 1/2, inches in diameter, depicts the first Relief Society meeting held in Nauvoo, March 17, 1842. Brown is the predominating color of the design on this beautiful ivory plate, with costumes in a variety of colors. The plate is bordered with gold-colored wheat heads. The inscription on the back gives information as to the organization, scope, and purposes of Relief Society.
Price $1.50, postpaid.
OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN
No. 1 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 24 carat gold-plated. Price $1.10, postpaid.
No. 2 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid-gold front (gold-filled), with 24 carat gold-plated back. Price $1.80, postpaid.
Both pins are identical as to design, size, and coloring. Although issued as a feature of the centennial year, this pin bears only the organization date, 1842. And will therefore be appropriate for use after the centennial.
These prices include Federal excise tax.
OUR LEGACY
RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL ANTHOLOGY OF VERSE
This 329-page book contains poems selected from the writings of Latter-day Saint women from 1835 to 1942, including all the prize poems designated in the annual Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest. The relatives of those whose poems are included in this anthology will be especially interested.
Price $1.50, postpaid.
CENTENNIAL COMMEMORATIVE BOOK
A special centennial commemorative book will be issued by the General Board about May 1, 1942. This book, consisting of 96 pages, size 9x12 inches, will set forth in picture and story the history of Relief Society from its beginning to and including the general centennial observance. The book will be bound in a blue paper book cover with its title, 'A Centenary of Relief Society.'' and the centennial insignia stamped in gold. The price of the book will be fifty cents per copy. Members wishing to be sure of obtaining a copy may place advance orders for this book with their local Magazine representatives or with the office of the General Board, which will be filled in the order in which they are received. Orders cannot be accepted without the remittance of fifty cents per copy. A special gift card will be sent with all copies of the book designated as gifts. This valuable book will make an unusual and particularly appropriate Mother's Day gift.
All articles listed above are obtainable only from General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City.
The Relief Society Magazine
Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Vol. 29 FEBRUARY, 1942
No. 2
Contents
Special Features
The Cover?Joseph Smith Store?Back of Frontispiece 75
Old Social Hall?Frontispiece 76
This Happened to Me Rae B. Barker 77
In Retrospect?Chapter?President Amy Brown Lyman 80
Ann Parkinson Nibley Belle S. A 87
Prize-Winning Story (Second Prize) ?Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contest
Go Letter by Ellen Douglass Parker 97
Excerpts from Woman's Exponent, 1872-1877 (Selected by Marianne C. Sharp) 99
Lovest Thou Me More Than These? O. F. Ursenbach 101
Little Habits That Grow Into Ruling Forces Lella Marler Hoggan 103
"Vegetables for Vitality for Victory'' James M. Kirkham 105
Fiction
Inheritance?Mabel Harmer 90
The Merry-Go-Round (concluded) Alice Morrey Bailey 115
General Features
Happenings?Annie Wells Cannon 108
Editorial:
Sources of Spiritual Refreshment 109
Notes to the Field:
Discontinuance of Relief Society Stake Union Meetings and Conferences 111
General Centennial Celebration Postponed 112
April General Conference of Relief Society Not Scheduled 112
Local Relief Societies to Observe Centennial and to Plant Trees 112
Centennial Memorial Campanile (Bell Tower) 112
Radio Broadcast, March 17, 1942 113
Survey of Registered and Practical Nurses 113
114
Notes from the Field Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 121
Lessons
Theology and Testimony?Articles of Faith, by James E. Talmage, Chapter 8 128
Visiting Teachers'?Obeying the Commandments of God as an Expression of Faith 130
Work-and-Business?Care of Clothing 131
Literature?Importance of a Sense of Humor 133
Social Science?Future of Marriage and Family Life 137
Mission?"Softly Beams the Sacred Dawning"' 142
Poetry
High Dreams Linnie Fisher Robinson 86
VALENTINES?Courtney E. Cottam 96
TWO Of Me Eva Willes Wangsgaard 102
Art Of Living Gertrude Perry Stanton 104
To My Father Beatrice Rordame Parsons 127
Songs of the Pioneers Leslie Derbyshire 146
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone 3-2741, Ex. 243.
Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance.
Single copy, 10c.
The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires.
Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed.
Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address.
Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 8, 1879.
Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1108, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918.
Stamps should accompany manuscripts for their return. 

The Cover JOSEPH SMITH STORE, NAUVOO, ILLINOIS Birthplace of Relief Society HE cover picture of this issue of the Magazine is the historic Joseph Smith store building of Nauvoo, Illinois. In the Lodge Room (also referred to as the Masonic Hall) over the Joseph Smith store, the Relief Society was organized March 17, 1842. This Lodge Room was no doubt the largest meeting room in Nauvoo at that time. It was here that the first meetings of the Society were held. However, by the tenth meeting, according to Eliza R. Snow, the Society had grown to such great numbers that there was no hall large enough to accommodate the membership, so the tenth meeting and all subsequent meetings held in 1842 were in the Grove. The Grove was the usual place for holding Sabbath meetings in the summer and was provided with astand and a supply of seats for large assemblies. Before the second meeting held in 1843, ''in consequence of having no room sufficiently commodious for the whole Society it was recommended by the president that the Society be divided for the purpose of meeting according to the four city [Nauvoo] wards, and meet by rotation.... Accordingly, notice was given at the Grove on Sunday and the 2nd of July that the members residing in the first city ward would convene at the room occupied as a Masonic Hall on the Friday following (July 7) at 2 o'clock." During the year 1843 there are records of fourteen meetings being held in rotation by the four wards of Nauvoo. Many of these meetings were held in private homes. The last recorded meeting held in Nauvoo, March 16, 1844, took place in the Lodge Room over President Joseph Smith's store. Thus, the first and last meetings of the Society in Nauvoo took place in the Lodge Room of the Joseph Smith store building, making this structure of historical interest to Relief Society women. Arrangements for this month's cover design are by Evan Jensen. The Relief Society Magazine 
Vol. 29 FEBRUARY, 1942 No. 2