[Vol29 | February 1942 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting TeachersObeying]
Visiting  cJeachers 
Messages  To  The  Home 
Lesson  8 
Obeying  The  Commandments  Of  God  As 
An  Expression  Of  Faith 
(Tuesday,  May  5,  1942) 
TN  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  Jesus  be  unhappy.    The  test  of  faith  in 
said,  "Seek  ye  first  the  Kingdom  the  commandments    is    obedience, 
of  God/'    Later  he  gave  this  chal-  and  the  result  of  obedience  is  well- 
lenge:  'If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  being  and  happiness, 
he    shall    know    of    the    doctrine.         Spiritual  laws  aim  at  producing 
whether  it  be  of  God  or  whether  I  an  attitude  of  mind  which  results 
speak  of  myself."    (Matthew  6:33  inaction.    Jesus  warned  his  disciples 
and  John  7:17)   Our  own  Prophet  anciently  that  ''whosoever  is  angry 
said  this:  "There  is  a  law,  irrevoc-  with  his  brother  shall  be  in  danger 
ably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  of  His  judgment."       Anger  has  a 
foundations    of    this    world,    upon  three-fold  effect  on  the  personality: 
which  all  blessings  are  predicated—  first,  there  is  a  physical   effect— it 
And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  injures  one  in  his  body;  second,  there 
from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  is  a  mental  effect — one's  judgment 
law  upon  which  it  is  predicated."  is  blurred;  third,  there  is  a  spiritual 
(Doctrine  and  Covenants,   130:20,  reaction— one's  relations  with  God 
21)  are  disturbed.    The  same  thing  may 
To  "seek  first  the  Kingdom  of  be  said  of  fear.    Obedience  to  the 
God"  we  must  have  faith  in  Him.  law  regarding  anger  brings  calmness 
To  prove  the  doctrines  of  Christ,  of  spirit  and  therefore  joy.      The 
we  must  try  them.     If  we  wish  a  way,  then,  to  bring  about  the  will 
blessing  from  the  Lord,    we   must  of  God  on  earth  as  it  is  in  heaven, 
have  faith  in  the  law  upon  which  is  to  obey  His  commandments, 
it  is  predicated  and  then  obey  that         Sometimes    we    are    inclined    to 
law,  and  the  blessings  will  follow,  obey     only     the     commandments 
There    is    a    relationship    between  which  are  easy  for  us.     Thus,  we 
faith,  obedience,  and  blessings.  prefer  to  observe  the  Word  of  Wis- 
According  to  the  Prophet  Lehi,  dom  rather  than  to  pay  tithing— or 
the  purpose  of  life  is  that  we  may  the  reverse.    Or  we  may  choose  to 
have  joy.     But  the  highest  joy  can  obey  that  part  of  the  Word  of  Wis- 
be  obtained  only  through  obedience  dom  which  appeals  to  us  individu- 
to  the  commandments,  or  laws,  of  ally;  for  example,  we  may  obey  the 
God.     This  is  true,  because  these  part  regarding  hot  drinks,  tobacco, 
commandments  are  for    the    well-  and  strong  drinks  and  forget  what 
being  of  man.  No  one  who  exercises  is  said  about  meat.    In  only  partially 
faith  in  them  and  obeys  them  will  keeping  the  commandments  we  are

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
131 
not  ''seeking  first  the  Kingdom  of 
God." 
Faith  in  God,  then,  leads  ( 
i )  to 
a  knowledge  of  His  laws,  (2)  to 
obedience  to  those  laws,  and  (3) 
to  joy,  peace,  and  an  absence  of 
fear.  "Behold,  I  stand  at  the  door, 
and  knock;  if  any  man  hear  my 
voice,  and  open  the  door,  I  will  come 
in."  (Revelations  3:20) 
Discussion 
1.  What  is  the  relationship  between 
faith,  obedience,  and  blessings? 
2.  How  may  we  know  whether  any 
particular  doctrine  taught  by  Jesus  is  true? 
3.  Why  is  it  not  right  for  us  to  choose 
to  obey  only  certain  commandments? 
4.  What  particular  point  would  you 
select  for  use  in  introducing  this  subject 
in  the  home? 
vi/ork-ana'  ujustness 
Better  Buymanship 
Lesson  8 
Care  Of  Clothing 
(Tuesday,  May  12,  1942) 
'T^ODAY  when  personal  appear- 
ance means  so  much  to  one's 
reputation  and  success,  a  person  can 
scarcely  afford  to  tolerate  a  missing 
fastener,  a  soiled  spot,  or  a  run-down 
heel.  Many  people  have  been  de- 
nied success  and  friendships  because 
of  carelessness  and  slovenliness  in 
dress  and  because  of  wastefulness