*According to the Nauvoo Book of Records, some meetings were held at ten o'clock in the morning and some were held in the afternoon. Excerpts From The Woman's Exponent, 1872-1877 (Selected by Marianne C. Sharp) "The following lines were found written on a scrap and lying on an open Bible in the room where, and at the time when, the Society was organized; which have been carefully preserved and transcribed as an appropriate frontispiece to the Female Relief Society Book of Records: 'O Lord, help our widows and fatherless children! So mote it be. Amen.
With the sword and the word of truth, defend Thou them. So mote it be. Amen.'" (Volume I, No. 1, June 1, 1872) Speaking of the Relief Society in Nauvoo: "The meetings were so large that the largest hall in the city was densely crowded, and it became necessary to adjourn to the Grove, the usual place in the summer for holding Sabbath meeting, which was provided with a suitable stand ° and a supply of seats for large assemblies.
Each one wishing to join the Society was required to present a certificate of her good moral character, signed by two or more responsible persons. The meetings were opened and closed by singing and prayer, and systematic order was observed throughout. In each meeting reports were given by those whose duty it was to visit from house to house and inquire into the circumstances of the sick and destitute— donations were received and those subjects discussed which appertain to woman's duties, influence, responsibilities, etc., etc. —whatever has a tendency to benefit and elevate society at home and abroad.... Frequently President Joseph Smith, Bishop N. K.
Whitney and brethren of the Twelve met with the sisters, and through the inspiration of the Spirit of God, imparted rich counsel and intelligence; instructing, not only in duties concerning the poor, but also in all the relations of life, as wives, mothers, daughters, sisters, and, as saints of the Most High, our duties to one another and our responsibilities as examples to the world, etc.... The first winter after the Society was organized was exceedingly cold and severe... And had it not been for the timely aid of the Female Relief Society (many) would have suffered much, and probably some would have perished. "About the last of July, 1842, when some of the officials of Missouri were taking measures to drag President Joseph Smith from Illinois by an illegal process, the Female Relief Society sent a petition to Thomas Carlin, Governor of Illinois, in behalf of Pres. Smith, claiming his protection as chief magistrate. The petition was signed by every member of the Society and presented by its president, Mrs. Emma Smith, accompanied by Mrs. Amanda Smith and Miss E. R. Snow....
Whatever the result, the Female Relief Society had made a noble effort, and it was compensated by knowing that the great, good man, Joseph Smith, appreciated it.... " —Eliza R. Snow (June 15, 1872) Speaking of the Relief Society in 1872: "In having been driven from a city, we have become a_ Territory—should have been a State—and here, the Female Relief Society, more amply developed than in Nauvoo, has extended its branches to every ward and settlement from Bear Lake in the North to Santa Clara in the South, and yet, as seen in prospective, it has but little more than emerged from its embryo state in comparison to its great future."—Eliza R. Snow (June 15, 1872) "We have a large class of Scandinavian sisters who devote some hours a week to the study of the English language, and are taught by Sister Julia Howe."—17th Ward, Salt Lake City, Relief Society Report (August 15, 1872, page 42) "Eliza R.
Snow said we should seek to increase our fund of knowledge and to polish the mind."—Female Relief Society Report of Brinton's Ward, Big Cottonwood (1872, page 66) Miss Snow said, "Woman fills an important sphere; her duties are most significant; and for this reason she should be educated."—Payson Relief Society Report (1872, page 75) "I would especially mention the time Page 99 100 of the Echo Canyon expedition; when among other things, we were called upon for lariats.
Some of our faithful mothers worked day and night, carding and spinning cattle's hair for that purpose; they made and brought in twenty-two lariats." —Spanish Fork Report (1873, page 170) "T still think... That Home, with the Latter-day Saints is the Place of the Highest Happiness, Attainable on Earth."— Correspondence of Miss Snow from Vienna, Austria (Volume II, 1873, page 14) "You might as well have been born in some other nation or dispensation, unless you can feel that you have a mission in Zion.... ) "Let your first business be to perform your duties at home. But inasmuch as you are wise stewards, you will find time for social duties, because these are incumbent upon us as daughters and mothers in Zion. By seeking to perform every duty you will find that your capacity will increase, and you will be astonished at what you can accomplish." —Eliza R. Snow, Relief Society address, Ogden Tabernacle, August 14, 1873. (1873, page 63) "It was requisite that every woman of good moral character belonging to the Church, should be a member of this organization; it was designed to extend woman's sphere and endow her with high and noble qualities. All should feel the responsibilities of being teachers, and seek to elevate the minds of all with whom they come in contact, teaching charity in its broadest sense; chastity, purity of thought, and economy.
Every virtuous woman of the Church was called to be a member of these Societies, and being called, was under condemnation if she neglected to do so.'—American Fork Relief Society Report of a talk by Eliza R. Snow. (1873, page 66) "We have organized a school to teach the young girls plain and fancy needlework, knitting, crochet, embroidery, etc., articles made to be sold in the Relief Society's Co-operative Store; the profits derived therefrom to enlarge the Society's funds for the benefit of the sick and the needy.'—Springville Relief Society Report (1874, page 186) "Our Society house is a one story building, twenty-one by eighteen feet in size, and is well finished for a log building, logs being the best material we could obtain  in this place."—-Kamas Relief Society Report (Volume III, July 12, 1874, page 34) "Lehi Society made go yards of rag carpet for our Tabernacle." (1875, page 171 "Realizing the importance of founding and carrying out Home Industries, the 14
Ward Relief Society has commenced a Cooperative Tailoring Establishment to fill orders for men's and boys' clothing, on short notice and at low prices. (Mrs. S. Paxman, Superintendent)." (1875, page 181) "We received orders from sisters Smith and Barney (through our Bishop) to make some good strong durable clothing for the Indians and now have on hand quite a as Relief Society (1876, page 167) "Our sisters met and made clothing and bedding, etc., and gave more than one hundred dollars worth to the sisters and children who have gone to Arizona on missions."'—11th Ward, Salt Lake City (1876, page 171) "At the suggestion of Pres. Brigham Young, we would call the attention of the women of this Territory to the subject of saving grain."—From editorial "Sisters er Earnest." (October 15, 1876, page th "It was also moved, seconded, and unanimously carried that the Relief Societies throughout the Church take a mission to raise silk and do all in their power to clothe themselves and their families."—-General Conference at St. George. (April, 1877, page 172) "Our Society made about 40 yards of carpet for the Temple."—Tokerville, Kane County (1877, page 178) "A library has been started."—Spanish Fork Relief Society Report (1877, page 186) "Petition of ladies of Beaver to Mayor and City Council against seven saloons in their city." (1877, page 151) "A vote of thanks was tendered Mrs. Robinson (of Farmington) for having made the first piece of silk dress goods in Utah." (Volume VI, 1877, page 13) "The Exponent forms a small part of Church literature; it is the voice of the women of the Church, and contains a part of the record of their labors." (1877, page 18) '"Lovest Thou Me More Than These?" O. F. Ursenbach Manager, Los Angeles Regional Storehouse N the great art museums of Eu- | rope, photographs are available of the famous paintings displayed.
Before me at this writing is a photograph of a canvas by G. De Grayer, which I purchased in the Brussels Art Museum, in Belgium. In the center foreground of the picture are many large fish, and in the tear stand six fishermen. In the left foreground stands the Apostle Peter holding a large fish by the gills, and in the right foreground stands the resurrected Christ looking into Peter's face and pointing toward the fish on the ground before them.
Prior to the occasion pictured in this painting, the risen Lord had twice appeared—once to the women at the tomb, then to the apostles in the "upper room." The painting represents the third occasion when Jesus showed himself to his disciples after he had risen from the dead. The account of this appearance, as recorded in John 21: 1-17, tells us that on the sea of Tiberias a fishing party consisting of Peter, Thomas, Nathaniel, James, John and two other unidentified disciples—a group of seven—had fished all night without success. _ When the morning came, they saw standing on the shore a personage whom they did not know. His voice ' rang out to the fishermen: "Children, have ye any meat?" The fishermen answered negatively.
Again came the voice: "Cast the net on the right side of the ship and ye shall find."
This they did, and brought up a multitude of fishes. 'Then they recognized that the personage was the Lord.
Then other disciples came in a little ship dragging a net laden with fishes. When _ they reached the land, they saw a fire of coals there, with fish laid upon it.
They saw bread also. Then Jesus told them to bring the fish they had caught. And Peter went up and drew the fish to land. The unbroken net contained 153 "great fishes." } Then Jesus commanded the fishermen to come and dine, and He served them the bread and fishes.
After the Lord had served the disciples he turned to Peter asking: "Simon Peter, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these?"
Being assured of Peter's love, He continued: "Feed my lambs." 'Twice again He asked the same question.
Each time, following Peter's reassuring reply, the Master said: "Feed my sheep." The inference is frequently made that this commission referred only to spiritual food, but that it may have had a wider meaning is evidenced by the fact that the apostles, in the direct aftermath of the Ascension, inaugurated a welfare movement, under the law of consecration, for the temporal sustenance of the Saints. Acts 4:34-35 states: "Neither said any of them that ought of the things which they possessed was his Page 101 102 own; but they had all things in common....
Neither was there any among them that lacked; for as many as were possessors of lands or houses sold them, and brought the prices of the things that were sold. And laid them down at the apostles' feet: and distribution was made to every man according as he had need."
Joses of Cypres is mentioned as one who sold his land and gave all to the apostles. The story is also told of Annanias and his wife Sapphira who sold their possessions but selfishly retained a portion of the money. 'This brought Peter's stinging rebuke: "While it remained, was it not thine own? And after it was sold, was it not in thine own power? Why hast thou conceived this thing in thine heart?
Thou hast not lied to men, but unto God."
Suppose today the Master, considering our worldly possessions, should ask each individually: "Lovest thou me more than these?" Then, following our reassuring reply, suppose He should say: "Feed my sheep." 'To what extent would each comply?
Today the Lord does not require  that we give our all, but He has given us the law of tithing, which we, as a people, have only partially observed. We have also been charged to pay a fast offering.
Many there are who have been blessed with affluence who console themselves with the thought that they have fully met the fast offering requirement when they have paid the amount: suggested by the Church as the minimum per capita amount.
These persons could easily contribute many times this amount.
Were the fast fund commensurate with the ability of Latter-day Saint people to pay, the welfare movement would be fully financed; moreover, the present heavy call upon the Presiding Bishopric for assistance from the tithing funds to help wards meet monthly deficits incurred through providing for underprivileged members, would be eliminated.
Church members should advisedly and prayerfully consider the following lines: If everybody cared enough, If everybody shared enough, Everybody would have enough. A TWO OF ME Eva Willes Wangsgaard There always will be two of me, Two birds of different feather. One loves the earth, and one would be Away beyond the heather, Beyond the wind, beyond the sun— I long to set her winging, But that would rob the other one Of all she knows of singing. Little Habits That Grow Into Ruling Forces Lella Marler Hoggan ABITS are established ways of thinking, speaking, and acting. An old Chinese proverb runs: "Men do not grow good or bad suddenly."
Little by little, day by day, we form the habits that hold us to a certain course of action. We are masters of our fate or slaves thereto according to the habits that tule our lives. A hunter while riding in the mountains one day came upon a wolf's den in the rocks. The wolf puppies lay cuddled together warm and soft and cozy. The hunter gathered two of them up and carried them home to his children for pets.
While the puppies appeared harmless, they soon became strong and _ vigorous. 'They began to growl and snap and bite at the children and were soon too dangerous to be kept in the home.
Habits are like that.
Frequently those that at first appear harmless grow in strength until they become a menace.
There are habits that serve and uplift us, and there are habits that weaken us and carry us to our doom. Unrestrained, vicious habits will betray a man's best hopes and highest ideals; they will rob him of his health, his honor, and all that he holds dear. But just as undesirable habits grow in strength from day to day, just as they enslave us and rob us of our peace of mind and joy of spirit, so also do desirable habits become a power for good in the lives of all those who cultivate them. The person who establishes good health habits is not inclined to do things that will injure his body or shorten his life.
Those who train themselves in gentlé manners and cultured speech, find that self-control is not difficult of attainment. To follow a moral code that is wholesome and uplifting protects one against harmful influences.
Having formed the habit of praying earnestly and often, one finds he has a key to spiritual guidance which » he will not willingly give up for some cheap substitute.
There are eternal laws underlying all of life.
Obedience to any law brings its reward. | Whatever we think or say or do effects our lives to a greater or lesser degree. When Rip Van Winkle dropped into dissolute ways he kept telling himself, "We won't count this time." But all the time Mother Nature was counting and recording the very thing he was trying to forget. She keeps an accurate record and collects from each of us what is coming to her, to the last, least portion.
Habits once formed are not easily overcome. It takes conscious and persistent effort on our part to change any established custom. The Master gave us the true plan Page 103 104 — |  of life and salvation. But truth serves and saves us only to the extent that we incorporate it into our lives. Why not cultivate habits that will help us to progress, rather than permit undesirable ones to creep into our lives and thwart our highest purposes?.. Elbert Hubbard advised that we cultivate only those habits that we are willing should master us. All of us, no doubt, have read the story in scripture of the foolish man who built his house upon the: sand, and the wise man who built his house upon the rock.
When the winds and the storm came and beat upon those houses, the one built upon the sand fell to its destruction, but the one on the stone foundation stood firm through all the fury of the gale. Our life structure is continually being subjected to similar tests. If we build up habits of strength and character we are laying the foundation stones for a house that will stand against all of the trials and temptations which may confront us. We shall not have to delude ourselves with the thought, "We won't count this time;" rather, we shall be glad to assure ourselves that this time and every time will count in establishing the wholesome habits that we are glad to have rule us. A ART OF LIVING Gertrude Perry Stanton I loved the works of master minds In music and in art; Reveled in poetry sublime— A farmer won my heart.
What leisure has a farmer's wife Such tastes to gratify? I wrote my symphony in soup, My poetry in pie. I found great songsters with the birds, And sculpture in the hills, Most gorgeous paintings in the west, And rhythm in the rills. I lived an opera every day— Adventure, ecstasy; My children sang the solo parts, The chorus rang from me. My jellies showed the colors rate That painters love to use; I modeled in my bread and rolls— And thus I wooed my muse. "Vegetables for Vitality for Victory"' James M. Kirkham Secretary, Church Beautification Committee HERE is one great objective before the United States right now, and that is victory. We are.
Asked to direct all of our thoughts, resources, and energies toward winning the war. The efforts of many civilians are required to equip and keep one man aes A GOOD SELECTION OF VEGETABLES FOR SALADS. LETTUCE, CUCUMBER, PEPPER, TOMATO AND CELERY CABBAGE.
Distribution tie-ups which have afflicted every country engaged in war, then every family controlling a bit of fertile, productive soil must have a garden. The disappearance of surpluses and an increase in the price of fresh vegetables are considered a certainty at the front for service in the modern fighting force. The fighters need food; the workers who help equip the fighters need food. One of the indispensable war production items is food. War gardens, in which are produced vital, prospective foods for home use, have now become a national necessity. If the United States is to continue enjoying food in abundance, if it is to escape the production shortages and by many authorities. As employment has increased, the demand for many food products has increased rapidly.
This is another reason why increased production of food is necessary.
Reports tell us that many women of Britain have kept up their morale during the war by caring for small, back-yard gardens. The protection and care of the health of people in this nation during this war is going to be one of the Page 105 =e sl | \ —_—_—_—_——- CUCUMBERS TRAINED ON WIRE FENCE major problems of the Government. The campaign to accomplish this has already started. We all recognize the health values to be found in fresh air, sunshine, and exercise. We also know the health values to be found in fresh vegetables. A wellkept vegetable garden is a source for all of these as well as a financial profit to the owner and a pleasure to the entire family. The home vegetable garden should be a family interest, and all members of the family who are able to do so should take part in its care and cultivation.
Agricultural leaders of the nation expect an increase of about one and one-third million home vegetable gardens this year. It is a great satisfaction to have. A supply of vegetables close at hand.
Many vegetables rapidly deteriorate in quality after being gathered.
Vegetables are at their best when fresh picked from one's own garden.
When a family produces its own vegetables, it usually eats more vegetables than if it had to depend upon those purchased with money from a store.
Eating more home-grown vegetables tends to improve the family's health.
Vegetables and fruits furnish a large part of the essential minerals, salts, and vitamins neces-.
Sary to the well-being of the human system. The health value of vegetables in the diet is of even greater importance than the economic values of home production.
Homegrown vegetables also release more of the commercial vegetable production for other uses, such as helping to provide food for the fighting forces. A good family food plan calls for two vegetables a day besides potatoes. One of these should be leafy or raw, such as lettuce, spinach, cabbage, or tomatoes. The other one should be a root vegetable, or corn, string beans, peas, or some other vegetable of this clasification. EGETABLES may be grown in | many corners and waste places that are now overrun by weeds.
Where weeds will grow, it is quite certain that vegetables will also grow if given reasonable care. In selecting the place for a garden, however, we must remember that vegetables will not grow in poor soil, such as that found in many city back yards. It too often consists of rocks, cinders, or basement soil.
Certain vegetables may be grown among flowers, in corners, or trailed on fences.
Before planting, study should be given to the kind of vegetables and the varieties best adapted to the planting area. A garden should not be planted where the sun does not shine upon the land for at least five hours each bright day.