[Vol29 | February 1942 | Sequence: 31 | Category: Article | Title: Centennial Memorial Campanile (Bell Tower)]
npHE  Church-wide  general  celebration  of  the  Relief  Society  centennial, 
which  was  to  have  been  held  in  Salt  Lake  City  at  the  time  of  the  general 
conference  in  April,  has  been  postponed  for  the  present.  Plans  for  this  cele- 
bration included  a  Relief  Society  centennial  pageant,  a  centennial  concert 
by  a  chorus  of  Singing  Mothers  composed  of  delegations  from  the  various 
stakes  and  missions,  and  an  exhibit  of  Relief  Society  activities.  All  of  these 
features  have  been  postponed.  This  decision  was  made  by  the  General 
Board  for  the  same  reasons  as  those  stated  by  the  First  Presidency  in 
requesting  discontinuance  of  auxiliary  stake  conferences  and  union  meetings. 
Kyipru   (general  (conference  of  [Kelief  Society 
Hot  Scheaulea 
ipOR  the  same  reasons  given  with  respect  to  to  postponement  of  the  general 
centennial  celebration,  the  General  Board  has  decided  not  to  call  a 
general  conference  of  Relief  Society  in  April  of  this  year. 
JLocal  LKeiief  Societies  to   (cyoserve   Lyentennial 
ana  to  [Plant  cJrees 
"lATARD  and  branch  Relief  Societies  throughout  the  Church  are  encour- 
aged to  proceed  with  plans  for  observance  of  the  Relief  Society 
centennial  on  or  near  March  17,  1942— the  one  hundredth  anniversary. 
They  will  also  proceed  with  the  planting  of  Relief  Society  centennial  trees 
on  Church  grounds.  These  are  the  two  definite  recommendations  made 
by  the  General  Board  to  be  followed  by  local  Relief  Societies  throughout 
the  Church,  as  announced  at  the  general  conference  of  Relief  Society 
October,  1941,  and  published  in  the  Magazine  for  November,  1941,  page 
752.  Attention  is  again  directed  to  the  recognition  and  support  of  the 
centennial  by  the  General  Boards  of  the  Mutual  Improvement  Associations 
who  have  released  to  the  Relief  Society  Tuesday  evening,  March  17,  1942, 
for  local  centennial  programs.  Those  who  desire  to  hold  celebrations  in 
the  evening  rather  than  the  afternoon  of  this  day  may  therefore  feel  free 
to  make  arrangements  with  their  respective  bishops  and  local  M.  I.  A. 
officers  for  the  use  of  this  evening.  Bronze  markers  for  the  centennial  trees 
are  now  available  at  the  offices  of  the  General  Board  at  $2.25,  postpaid, 
for  any  Relief  Societies  who  may  desire  them. 
Lyentennial    1 1  iemorial  L^ampaniie  (iueli  cJosK^er) 
'T^HE  January  issue  of  the  Relief  Society  Magazine  showed,  on  the  cover, 
a  picture  of  the  proposed  Relief  Society  centennial  memorial  cam- 
panile (bell  tower),  and  the  statement  inside  the  cover  indicated  that 
substitute  materials  would  be  used  temporarily  for  those  parts  of  the 
memorial  for  which  permanent  materials  might  be  unavailable  due  to  the 
war  situation.    The  General  Board  is  pleased  to  report  that  under  terms

NOTES  TO  THE  FIELD  113 
of  a  time  extension  of  Government  regulations  it  will  now  be  possible  to 
erect  the  memorial  of  permanent  materials. 
The  General  Board  announced  at  the  general  conference  of  Relief 
Society  in  October,  1941,  and  again  in  the  Relief  Society  Magazine  for 
January,  1942,  page  39,  that  voluntary  contributions  are  accepted  for  the 
erection  of  this  permanent  memorial  in  honor  of  all  Relief  Society  women 
of  the  past  and  present.  Contributions  are  being  offered  not  only  by 
Relief  Society  women  themselves,  but  by  husbands,  fathers,  and  sons  of 
Relief  Society  women  who  wish  to  make  contributions  in  honor  of  their 
wives,  daughters,  or  mothers,  who  have  been  or  now  are  devoted  Relief 
Society  members  and  workers.  All  ward  Relief  Society  presidents  are 
requested  to  have  announcement  made  both  in  Relief  Society  and  other 
ward  meetings  of  the  opportunity  for  contributing  to  this  unusual  and 
beautiful  Relief  Society  centennial  memorial  which  is  to  house  the  historic 
Nauvoo  Temple  bell.  There  is  at  present  no  time  limit  for  submittal  of 
these  contributions.  Many  people  will  doubtless  wish  to  contribute  before 
completion  of  the  memorial,  at  present  scheduled  for  April  1,  but  con- 
tributions will  be  accepted  throughout  the  year. 
As  previously  announced,  contributions  are  to  be  handed  to  the  ward 
Relief  Society  secretary-treasurer  who  will  enter  in  a  special  section  of 
the  ward  record  book  designated  for  that  purpose  the  name  of  the  giver, 
the  date,  and  the  amount  of  the  contribution.  This  special  record  of 
donors  to  the  campanile  will  be  retained  in  the  ward  as  a  permanent  record, 
and  is  to  include  the  names  of  all  who  make  contributions  through  the 
ward,  whether  or  not  they  are  members  of  the  ward  Relief  Society. 
LKaaio    UDroaacast,    fliarch  ij,   ^942