[Vol29 | February 1942 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: To My Parsons]

TO MY FATHER Beatrice Rordame Parsons Because you loved a garden growing free, And taught me, in the wisdom of your years, to see God's hand within each small, familiar bud, That lovely things can clamber out of mud, My garden is to me a hallowed place, Bright blooms, green shrubs, the lace Of vines against a trellis white To keep the memory of your love still bright. Because you loved each star, And taught me that those twinkling lights afar Had not been scattered by a careless hand, But each one placed, as is the pattern of the land, I love the dark'ning night when planets start So clear and bright against their canopy of blue. For then, toward God's most wondrous sky I lift my heart, and think of you. LESSON ge ie} DEPARTMENT Theology and Sestimony Articles of Faith, By James E. Talmage Lesson 8
Cuarter 8, THe Hoty Guost Article 4—'"We believe that the first principles and ordinances of the Gospel are:... Fourth, Laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost." (Tuesday, May 5, 1942) I. Lesson Aim To teach the nature, position, and power of the Holy Ghost as related to the Godhead, the Gospel, and man. II.
Divisions of the Subject Matter A. B. D. The promise of the Holy Ghost foretold. (Articles of Faith, pp. 157-159) Personality, powers and functions of the Holy Ghost. (Articles of Faith, PP- 159-163, 488) The bestowal of the gift of the Holy Ghost. (Articles of Faith, pp. 163-167, 487- 488) The spiritual gifts resulting from the Holy Ghost. (Articles of Faith, pp. 167-168) III. Teaching Suggestions A.
Preparation and Hepsi ae tion. The subject matter of this lesson is, in general, common knowledge with most members of the Church.
There are a few points, however, such as the distinction between the Holy Ghost and the gift of the Holy Ghost, the functions of the Holy Ghost in the lives of confirmed Church members, and the relationship of the Holy Ghost to the other members of the Godhead that need clarification.
This can be done through group discussion if the teacher is able to lead the discussion by use of pertinent questions. The following questions and other self-formulated ones should assist in leadin the socialized discussion: 1. By whom and to whom was the coming of the Holy Ghost foretold in ancient times? 2.
What is the relationship LESSON DEPARTMENT of the Holy Ghost to the other members of the Godhead? 3. Who are eligible for the baptism of the Holy Ghost? 4. Why is the Holy Ghost referred to as "The Comforter'? 5.
What is the function of the Holy Ghost in our individual lives? 6.
What is the difference between receiving the Holy Ghost and receiving the gift of the Holy Ghost? 7. Why is the laying on of hands an essential part of the Gospel ordinance of receiving the gift of 129 of the part that the Holy Ghost has played in their own lives as a guide, a comforter, and an inspirer. As it is pointed out that the Holy Ghost is a revealer of truth and a testifier of the Father, the Son, and the Gospel plan, the spirit of 'testimony-bearing will be promoted. Every Church member probably has felt the influence of the Holy Ghost at recurring intervals throughout his life, so that the testimony meeting should offer an opportunity to discuss personal experiences without having to draw upon the experiences of others. The Holy Ghost?
Gifts that result from the Ghost? | pp. 157-170, 487-488. The discussion of these and Smith, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 73°74.
Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, tions should lead the class Se Tilaaeae, Vitality of Mormonism, pp.
Members to an appreciation 42-45. Note: God, our eternal Father, is a personage of spirit clothed with an eternal body of flesh and bones. Jesus Christ is his son, and has flesh and bones and a spirit combined. He is the creator and the redeemer of all things. He governs all things under direction of the Father, whom he obeys perfectly. He strives with men to persuade them to repent and to accept the Gospel. The light of truth, or spirit of Christ, is the power in the sun, moon, stars, and all things, and it quickens the understanding of all men, and is the light and the life of all things. The Holy Ghost is a personage of spirit with neither flesh nor bones. He is called and ordained of the Father to bear witness of the Father and the Son, and he is a perfect witness of all things. He is the personage whom the Father named the Holy Spirit, although all three of these spirits are holy.
Unlike the spirit of Christ, he will not fall upon any who are not contrite. The gift of the Holy Ghost is bestowed by the laying on of hands after baptism, and all who receive it are given authority to have the guidance of the Holy Ghost whenever contriteness justifies.
These three personages are separate, distinct, and independent, but they cooperate in perfectness.
They constitute the Godhead which is a perfect presidency.
Each has separate callings in the priestly order of heaven, and all three work harmoniously to accomplish the Father's will, which is to bring to pass the salvation of men through Jesus Christ. 8.
What are the spiritual reception of the Holy other self-formulated quesReferences Talmage, Articles of Faith, Chapter 8, 142, 156, 198-199, 242, 328. 130.  , Visiting Seachers Messages To The Home Lesson 8
Obeying The Commandments Of God As An Expression Of Faith (Tuesday, May 5, 1942) N the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus said, "Seek ye first the Kingdom of God." Later he gave this challenge: "If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God or whether I speak of myself." (Matthew 6:33 and John 7:17) Our own Prophet said this: "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated— And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." (Doctrine and Covenants, 130:20, 21) To "seek first the Kingdom of God" we must have faith in Him. To prove the doctrines of Christ, we must try them. If we wish a blessing from the Lord, we must have faith in the law upon which it is predicated and then obey that law, and the blessings will follow. There is a relationship between faith, obedience, and blessings. According to the Prophet Lehi, the purpose of life is that we may have joy. But the highest joy can be obtained only through obedience to the commandments, or laws, of God. This is true, because these commandments are for the wellbeing of man. No one who exercises faith in them and obeys them will be unhappy. The test of faith in the commandments is obedience, and the result of obedience is wellbeing and happiness. Spiritual laws aim at producing an attitude of mind which results in action. Jesus warned his disciples anciently that "whosoever is angry with his brother shall be in danger of His judgment." Anger has a three-fold effect on the personality: first, there is a physical effect—it injures one in his body; second, there is a mental effect—one's judgment is blurred; third, there is a spiritual reaction—one's relations with God are disturbed. The same thing may be said of fear. Obedience to the law regarding anger brings calmness of spirit and therefore joy. The way, then, to bring about the will of God on earth as it is in heaven, is to obey His commandments. Sometimes we are inclined to obey only the commandments which are easy for us. Thus, we prefer to observe the Word of Wisdom rather than to pay tithing—or the reverse. Or we may choose to obey that part of the Word of Wisdom which appeals to us individually; for example, we may obey the part regarding hot drinks, tobacco, and strong drinks and forget what is said about meat. In only partially keeping the commandments we are LESSON DEPARTMENT not "seeking first the Kingdom of God." Faith in God, then, leads (1) to a knowledge of His laws, (2) to obedience to those laws, and (3) to joy, peace, and an absence of fear. "Behold, I stand at the door, and knock; if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in." (Revelations 3:20) 131
Discussion 1. What is the relationship between faith, obedience, and blessings? 2. How may we know whether any particular doctrine taught by Jesus is true? 3. Why is it not right for us to choose to obey only certain commandments? 4. What particular point would you select for use in introducing this subject in the home? | te Work-andBusiness Better Buymanship Lesson 8
Care Of Clothing (Tuesday, May 12, 1942) ODAY when personal appearance means so much to one's reputation and success, a person can scarcely afford to tolerate a missing fastener, a soiled spot, or a run-down heel.
Many people have been denied success and friendships because of carelessness and slovenliness in dress and because of wastefulness due to the improper care of clothing. It is not only to a person's advantage socially to properly care for his wearing apparel, but it is also to his advantage economically. To use good judgment in the selection of clothing is very important, but if this same clothing is not properly cared for, it will not give satisfaction either as to appearance or durability.
Whether an article of clothing adds to or detracts from one's personal appearance is a matter which extends from the time the garment is purchased until it can no longer be worn, and to a marked extent this depends upon the care the garment receives. It is the detailed and systematic care given to clothing—which after all is a matter of habit formation—that differentiates the well-groomed person from the untidy or careless one. To establish good habits in the care of clothing, it is necessary for one to have suitable places for storage, and the proper equipment with which to care for clothes. "A place for everything, and everything in its place" is a good slogan to follow. To buy suitable equipment and ready-made clothes-storage boxes or chests is expensive, but the ingenious person can do much herself to provide these at little cost. Simple, inexpensive and very satisfactory equipment may be made at home.
Orange crates may be secured from the grocery store and made into wardrobes or storage boxes.
Hangers may be padded and covered; round boxes and cans may be padded on top and covered to make hat stands.
Covers for shoes that are seldom worn may be made from men's old stockings. } It is not only important to have suitable equipment, but it is also important that this equipment be conveniently located for use; for example, brushes that are hung in the closet are handy and are more apt to be used for brushing coats, dresses, and hats than they would be if not so conveniently placed.
Shoecleaning equipment that is near the place where shoes are stored is used much more often than it would be if placed in another room.
After the proper equipment has been provided and conveniently placed, then habits which are timesavers must be formed.
Children should be taught correct habits from childhood.
Having provided hangers for them, hooks should be placed low enough for children to reach so that they can properly hang up their own clothing.
Very small children can learn to polish their shoes, sew on buttons, and do numerous other similar tasks. It is easy to put off caring for one's clothes. However, everyone realizes that regular inspection rather than intensive occasional care lightens upkeep and lengthens wear.
Clothing should receive daily, weekly, and seasonal care, which includes brushing, hanging correctly, mending, cleaning, and pressing. The proper time to inspect clothes for needed repairs is immediately after wearing them. Dust, soil, and lint when allowed tc remain on a garment seep into and mar the material as well as spoil the appearance of the garment.