[Vol29 | February 1942 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: MissionSoftly Beams the Dawning]
SOFTLY  BEAMS  THE  SACRED  DAWNING 
Softly  beams  the  sacred  dawning 
Of  the  great  Millennial  morn. 
And  to  Saints  gives  welcome  warning 
That  the  day  is  hasting  on. 
Spendid  rising  o'er  the  mountains. 
Glowing  with  celestial  cheer. 
Streaming  from  eternal  fountains, 
Rays  of  living  light  appear. 
Swiftly  flee  the  clouds  of  darkness, 
Speedily  the  mists  retire; 
Nature's  universal  blackness 
Is  consumed  by  heav'nly  fire. 
Yea,  the  fair  sabbatic  era. 
When  the  world  will  be  at  rest. 
Rapidly  is  drawing  nearer; 
Then  all  Israel  will  be  blest. 
Odors  sweet  the  air  perfuming. 
Verdure  of  the  purest  green; 
In  primeval  beauty  beaming. 
Will  our  native  earth  be  seen. 
At  the  resurrection  morning, 
We  shall  all  appear  as  one; 
O  what  robes  of  bright  adorning. 
Will  the  righteous  then  put  on!

LESSON  DEPARTMENT  143 
None  have  seen  the  untold  treasures 
Which  the  Father  hath  in  store, 
Teeming  with  surpassing  pleasures, 
Even  life  forevermore. 
Mourn  no  longer.  Saints  beloved, 
Brave  the  dangers,  no  retreat; 
Neither  let  your  hearts  be  moved, 
Scorn  the  trials  you  may  meet. 
— John  /agues. 
'T^HIS  poem  was  written    by    an  snowstorm.  His  eldest  daughter  was 
English  convert  to  Mormonism.  among  those  who  perished  on  the 
He  was  born  in  Market  Bosworth,  way  to  Salt  Lake  Valley. 
Leicestershire,  England,  on  January  In  1869,  Elder  Jaques  returned  to 
7,   1827.     Throughout  his  seventy-  his  native  land  to  fulfil  a  mission  for 
three  years  of  life  he  was  a  lover  of  the  Church,  remaining  there  for  two 
truth,  and  wrote  and  spoke  about  years.     It  was  at  Stratford-on-Avon 
it.     His  poem,  "O  Say,  What  Is  that,  one  evening  in  a  deep  reverie. 
Truth?''  is  a  popular  hymn  among  he  composed  the  hymn  just  referred 
Latter-day  Saints.     It  was  this  pas-  '  to.    On  his  return  from  his  mission 
sion  for  truth  that  led  him  to  be-  he    entered    the    newspaper    field, 
come  a  member  of  the  Church  in  working  first  for  the  Ogden  Standard 
1845,  when  he  was  eighteen  years  and  then  for  the  Deseret  News.   His 
of  age.  last  years  were  spent  in   the  His- 
Once,  when  he  was  a  young  man  torian's  Office,  as  assistant.     Thus 
in  England,  he  was  accosted  on  the  his  life  was  devoted  to  writing  in 
street  by  a  youth,  who  asked  him  for  one  form  or  another,  for  which  he 
money  enough  to  buy  a  meal.  Jaques  was  well  fitted  by  nature  and  expe- 
refused  the  request.  The  next  morn-  rience. 
ing  he  read  in  the  paper  of  the  death 
of  an  unknown  man,  whose  body  JN  Latter-day  Saint  HymnSj  there 
lay  in  the  morgue.  Something  told  are  five  selections  by  John  Jacques, 
him  that  this  man  was  the  one  to  They  are:  "Come  All  Ye  Saints," 
whom  he  had  refused  to  give  six-  ''O  Say,  What  Is  Truth?,"  ''Our 
pence  for  food.  On  visiting  the  Father,  in  the  Sacred  Name  of  Jesus 
morgue  he  found  that  this  was  the  Christ,"  ''Silver,  Gold,  and  Precious 
case.  Thereafter  while  in  England  Stones,"  and  "Softly  Beams  the 
John  Jaques  kept  in  his  vest  pocket  Sacred  Dawning."  The  last  of  these 
a  few  six-penny  pieces,  and  later  in  hymns  was  chosen  by  the  Church 
America  a  few  dimes,  to  give  to  any-  Music  Committee  for  congregation- 
one  who  said  he  was  hungry.  This  al  use  throughout  the  Church  dur- 
story  he  told  the  author  of  this  les-  ing  the  year  1941.  Since  this  hymn 
son  in  explanation  of  the  ever-pres-  speaks  of  the  millennium,  the  cul- 
ent  dimes  in  his  pocket.  mination  of  the  life  of  this  earth  in 
In  1856  he  immigrated  to  Amer-  its  present  state,  it  forms  a  fitting 
ica.    He  crossed  the  plains  in  one  close  to  this  series  of  lessons  on  our 
of  the  famous  handcart  companies,  hymns  and  their  authors, 
reaching  the  Rockies  in  a  furious  The  progress  of  thought  in  this

144  RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— FEBRUARY,  1942 
beautiful  hymn  is  easy  and  natural:  dressed  in  robes  of  bright  adorning, 
First,    dawn    is    approaching,    the  if  we  shall  have  lived  according  to 
dawning  of  a  new  day.    It  will  be  the  principles  of  the  Gospel.  This 
remembered    that   the   dawn   of   a  resurrection  is  a  treasure  which  God 
new  day  is  mentioned  in  the  first  has  had  in  store  for    his    faithful 
hymn  studied  in  this  course,  'The  Saints.     Paul  speaks  of  this  in  the 
Morning  Breaks."    While  the  dawn  famous  passage,  *'Eye  hath  not  seen, 
referred  to  in  this  hymn  is  the  dawn  nor  ear  heard,  neither  have  entered 
of  the  Gospel  era,  in  the    hymn,  into  the  heart  of  man,  the  things 
"Softly  Beams  the  Sacred  Dawning,"  which  God  hath  prepared  for  them 
the  dawn  referred  to  is  the  dawn  that  love  him,"  (I  Corinthians  2:9) 
of  the  era  when  Christ  will  reign  And  then,  in  view  of  this  surpassing 
personally   upon   the  earth.      This  pleasure,  this  living  in  the  millen- 
latter  hymn  also  warns  us  that  the  nium,  we  need  no  longer  mourn, 
day  is  hasting  on— the  day  of  strife  but  rather  we  should  brave  the  dan- 
and  bloodshed  and  wickedness.  gers,  with  no  retreat. 
In  the  second  stanza  we  have  a  There  are,  therefore,  two  parts  to 
continuation  of  the  picture  of  dawn  this  poem— one  material,  pictur- 
— splendid,  rising  o'er  the  moun-  esque;  the  other  spiritual.  The  ma- 
tains,  glowing  and  streaming  in  liv-  terial  is  symbolical  of  the  spiritual, 
ing  rays  from  eternal  fountains,  to 
illumine  the  approaching  day.    And  TPHIS  hymn,  then,  completes  the 
then,  in  consequence,  there  is  a  dis-  cycle  both  of  our  course  and  of 
persion  of  darkness;  nature's  univer-  the  history  of  the  mortal  earth.  All 
sal  blackness  is  consumed  by  heaven-  the  poems  which  we  have  consid- 
ly  fire.    All  this  is,  of  course,  figur-  ered  here  are  not  only  religious,  but 
ative:  the  dawn  is  not  a  literal  dawn,  theological   in  their    material    and 
but  is  analogous    to    the    spiritual  spirit.      They  give  us  a  complete 
flood  of  light  which  will  dispel  error  picture  of  the  earth's  life  from  the 
and  sin  preparatory  to  the  ushering  point  of  view  of  revealed  religion, 
in  of  the  new  day  of  Christ.  Let  us  briefly  review  our  poems  again 
The  fourth  and  the  fifth  stanzas  from  another  angle,  for  the  purpose 
continue  the  picture  from  two  as-  of  seeing  just  how  they  deal  with 
pects:  first,  this  era  will  be  sabbatical  this  history. 
—that  is,  it  will  be  the  seventh  thou-  First,  there  is  our  pre-earth  state, 
sand-year  period  in  the  history  of  where  we  are  with  our  heavenly  Fa- 
the  earth,  and  therefore  it  will  be  ther  and  Mother.    Second,  we  come 
one  of  rest  and  worship;  second,  the  down  to  earth  which  was  made  for 
earth  will  be  beautiful— the  air  will  us,  a  few  at  a  time,  and  here  our 
be  perfumed,  and  the  verdure  will  spirits  take  a  body  of  flesh  and  blood, 
be  of  the  purest  green.  Third,  we  are  taught  the  plan  of  life 
The  last  three  stanzas  introduce  and  salvation,  the  everlasting  cove- 
us  to  other  aspects  of  this  spiritual  nant,  which  we  made  with  the  Fa- 
morning:  Presently  there  will  be  a  ther.  This  includes  ithe  essential 
resurrection  from  the  dead,  in  which  principles  and  ordinances  that  are 
our  spirits  will  again  take  up  our  necessary  to  our  salvation— that  is, 
material  bodies,  and   we   shall    be  our  return  to  Father  and  Mother

LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
145 
in  heaven.  The  heart  of  this  plan, 
this  everlasting  covenant,  is  the 
birth,  the  suffering,  the  death,  and 
the  resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ,  a 
member  of  the  Godhead,  v^hose  sac- 
rifice for  us  we  remember  in  the 
Sacrament  of  the  Lord's  Supper. 
Fourth,  since  man  is  so  tempted 
through  the  flesh,  so  yielding,  so  for- 
getful of  the  spiritual,  the  everlast- 
ing covenant  has  had  to  be  revealed 
to  him  over  and  over  again  in  the 
progress  of  the  centuries.  But  now, 
in  this  age  of  the  world,  it  has  been 
revealed  for  the  last  time,  by  way  of 
preparation  for  the  millennial  pe- 
riod of  earth.  Fifth,  the  medium 
through  which  God  has  made  these 
various  revelations  to  man,  has  been 
the  prophets  and  seers,  of  whom 
Joseph  Smith  and  his  successors  are 
among  the  greatest.  Sixth,  one  of 
the  marks  of  a  good  citizen  of  the 
kingdom  of  God  is  the  ability  to 
control  one's  thoughts,  feelings,  and 
behavior  to  the  extent  of  keeping 
oneself  in  line  with  the  mind  and 
will  of  God.  Seventh,  especially  is 
it  essential  to  instill  into  our  youth
