[Vol29 | February 1942 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: Valentines Courtney E]

VALENTINES Courtney Cottam It is so hard to wander back to yesterdays With you, whose years are numbered by the score; I cannot picture your dear, frosty hair As gleaming golden in the morning sun, Nor realize the pulsing love you bore. Yet as I sit beside you in the dusk, Hearing you tell of the love your heart held close, I know that we are kin; 'For as you hold a crumbling flower, Remembering, I hold a fresh cut rose.
Letter by Ellen Douglass Parker Written at Nauvoo, Illinois, June 12, 1842
Editor's Note: The following is a copy of a letter written by Ellen Douglass Parker, at Nauvoo, Illinois, June 12, 1842, to her father and mother who were living in England. Ellen Douglass Parker was a member of Relief Society at Nauvoo. The comment regarding the Society contained in this letter is of special interest at this time when the centennial is focusing attention upon the organization and growth of the Society. The original letter is the property of Mr. William R. Palmer, Cedar City, Utah, and is reproduced in the Magazine with his permission, sans editorial changes. Nauvoo June 12, 1842
Dear Father and Mother: I now take up my pen for the third time to address you, hoping these lines will find you in good health as it leaves us all at present. I sent one letter from New Orleans with an Englishman, which I expect you will get soon. He was not setting off for England until the beginning of May. [ also sent another with one of our brethren who was coming to England to warn them for another time to prepare for the coming of Jesus Christ, which we believe is drawing nigh, and I expect that you will get this the first. I sent the other about a month since and I am going to send this by Artmes Fielding. He has come over from England with some of the Saints and he is returning to Liverpool, so I send this letter by him so that you will have less to pay.
Dear father and mother, I am at a loss what I can say to you. I feel so thankful for what the Lord has done for me and my family, for truly all things have worked together for our good. You will see in our former letters how all things did work, for which I feel to praise my Heav- - enly Father, and I will now say some things about our situation. We rented a house at 5 shillings a month and we have firewood in at that and a good garden above an half an acre. It lies on the side of a hill close before our door. Our house is not such a fine one, but there are many that are much worse and I prayed that we might have one to ourselves, for there is three or four families in one room and many have to pitch their tents in the woods or anywhere where they can, for it is impossible for all to get houses when they come in for they are coming in daily.
Scores of houses have been built since we have come here and they still continue building, and it is eight weeks this night since we came in. We have got our garden plowed and planted and all our seeds have come up and look very well. We have planted corn, potatoes, beans, peas, onions, pumpkins, melons, cucumbers, and many other things too numerous to mention, and we have also got a pig. A man came one day and wanted one of our boys to go and clear him a piece of ground before he plowed it and he would give him a pig, so he went about one day and got it. In any land it would have cost 15 or 16 shillings at least. It was Ralph that got it. We also have got a flock of chickens. We have 13 and I have bought 4 besides, so you have account of all our property, and I think we are far better here than in old England. We wish all our fathers and mothers Page 97 98,  and brothers and sisters and all our friends were here, for there is plenty of work and plenty of meat and we can afford to play a day or two any time when we please and not get into debt.
Butter is 5 pence a pound, sugar is the same. We have not had much fresh meat but we have had plenty of good bacon and ham. I wish the people in England could get as much as we can. As to prices of other goods, I need not mention, because you have heard before. I sent you word in my last letter what we were all doing, but I will mention it again.
George and Ralph are working at the Nauvoo house and Richard has been working at a farm house close by and Isabella at the same place.
Richard is now going to work for another man and I expect he will receive for wages five dollars a month besides his board, but we have not exactly agreed till he sees how both sides likes.
George is walling when he is at the Nauvoo house but they are now waiting for some wood work, so he is ditching till they want him again.
They love their work at the Nauvoo house very well. I forgot to tell you what Richard was going to work at, but he is going to plow and break up prairie. It has been his work ever since we came here. James Smithes and his family are all in good health. Ann got another child on the 31 day of May. I have been over to see her and she is doing very well. I also mention Hanah Thornber and her family.
Henry is in good health at present.
Jane has been sick but she is mending very nicely.
Hanah has been a little sick but she is beginning to mend.
Elen and her husband are well. Old John and. Ellen Parker are both in good health and spirits and are expecting their daughter Mary every day.
Give their kind love to all inquiring friends. Jo Spencer, Jr., Eleson and Alice P.
Cotam and Ann and Jo Bushton and William and Betty Moss are all in good health and spirits. Wm.
Moss is building him a house not far from where we live.
There is now in this city a female charity society of which Iam a member. We are in number eight or nine hundred. Jos.
Smith wife is the head of our Society and we meet on a Thursday at ten o'clock,* where we receive instructions both temporally and spiritually. I must say something about the Prophet the Lord has raised up in these last days. I feel to rejoice that I have been permitted to hear his voice, for I know that this is the work of the Lord, and all the powers of earth or hell can not gainsay it. The time is not far hence when all will know that this is the work of the Lord and not of man. The time is near at hand when all the proud and they that do wickedly shall be as stubble, and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of Hosts. I pray that the Lord may remove all darkness from your minds so that you may see clearly the way which you should go, so that at last you may enter in through the gate into the city.
Give our kind love to all inquiring friends and to all our brothers and sisters. Tell Jo Thorn- (Continued on page 146)