[Vol29 | February 1942 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Little Habits That Grow Into Ruling Forces]

Habits are established ways of thinking, speaking, and acting. An old Chinese proverb runs: "Men do not grow good or bad suddenly." Little by little, day by day, we form the habits that hold us to a certain course of action. We are masters of our fate or slaves thereto according to the habits that rule our lives.

A hunter while riding in the mountains one day came upon a wolf's den in the rocks. The wolf puppies lay cuddled together warm and soft and cozy. The hunter gathered two of them up and carried them home to his children for pets. While the puppies appeared harmless, they soon became strong and vigorous. They began to growl and snap and bite at the children and were soon too dangerous to be kept in the home.

Habits are like that. Frequently those that at first appear harmless grow in strength until they become a menace. There are habits that serve and uplift us, and there are habits that weaken us and carry us to our doom. Unrestrained, vicious habits will betray a man's best hopes and highest ideals; they will rob him of his health, his honor, and all that he holds dear. But just as undesirable habits grow in strength from day to day, just as they enslave us and rob us of our peace of mind and joy of spirit, so also do desirable habits become a power for good in the lives of all those who cultivate them.

The person who establishes good health habits is not inclined to do things that will injure his body or shorten his life. Those who train themselves in gentle manners and cultured speech, find that self-control is not difficult of attainment. To follow a moral code that is wholesome and uplifting protects one against harmful influences. Having formed the habit of praying earnestly and often, one finds he has a key to spiritual guidance which he will not willingly give up for some cheap substitute.

There are eternal laws underlying all of life. Obedience to any law brings its reward. Whatever we think or say or do effects our lives to a greater or lesser degree. When Rip Van Winkle dropped into dissolute ways he kept telling himself, "We won't count this time." But all the time Mother Nature was counting and recording the very thing he was trying to forget. She keeps an accurate record and collects from each of us what is coming to her, to the last, least portion.

Habits once formed are not easily overcome. It takes conscious and persistent effort on our part to change any established custom. The Master gave us the true plan of life and salvation. But truth serves and saves us only to the extent that we incorporate it into our lives. Why not cultivate habits that will help us to progress, rather than permit undesirable ones to creep into our lives and thwart our highest purposes?

Elbert Hubbard advised that we cultivate only those habits that we are willing should master us. All of us, no doubt, have read the story in scripture of the foolish man who built his house upon the sand, and the wise man who built his house upon the rock. When the winds and the storm came and beat upon those houses, the one built upon the sand fell to its destruction, but the one on the stone foundation stood firm through all the fury of the gale.

Our life structure is continually being subjected to similar tests. If we build up habits of strength and character we are laying the foundation stones for a house that will stand against all of the trials and temptations which may confront us. We shall not have to delude ourselves with the thought, "We won't count this time;" rather, we shall be glad to assure ourselves that this time and every time will count in establishing the wholesome habits that we are glad to have rule us.
