[Vol29 | February 1942 | Sequence: 33 | Category: Article | Title: April General Conference of Relief Society Not Scheduled]
General Conference at St. George. (April, 1877, page 172) "Our Society made about 40 yards of carpet for the Temple."—Tokerville, Kane County (1877, page 178) "A library has been started."—Spanish Fork Relief Society Report (1877, page 186) "Petition of ladies of Beaver to Mayor and City Council against seven saloons in their city." (1877, page 151) "A vote of thanks was tendered Mrs. Robinson (of Farmington) for having made the first piece of silk dress goods in Utah." (Volume VI, 1877, page 13) "The Exponent forms a small part of Church literature; it is the voice of the women of the Church, and contains a part of the record of their labors." (1877, page 18) '"Lovest Thou Me More Than These?" O. F. Ursenbach Manager, Los Angeles Regional Storehouse N the great art museums of Eu- | rope, photographs are available of the famous paintings displayed.
Before me at this writing is a photograph of a canvas by G. De Grayer, which I purchased in the Brussels Art Museum, in Belgium. In the center foreground of the picture are many large fish, and in the tear stand six fishermen. In the left foreground stands the Apostle Peter holding a large fish by the gills, and in the right foreground stands the resurrected Christ looking into Peter's face and pointing toward the fish on the ground before them.
Prior to the occasion pictured in this painting, the risen Lord had twice appeared—once to the women at the tomb, then to the apostles in the "upper room." The painting represents the third occasion when Jesus showed himself to his disciples after he had risen from the dead. The account of this appearance, as recorded in John 21: 1-17, tells us that on the sea of Tiberias a fishing party consisting of Peter, Thomas, Nathaniel, James, John and two other unidentified disciples—a group of seven—had fished all night without success. _ When the morning came, they saw standing on the shore a personage whom they did not know. His voice ' rang out to the fishermen: "Children, have ye any meat?" The fishermen answered negatively.
Again came the voice: "Cast the net on the right side of the ship and ye shall find."
This they did, and brought up a multitude of fishes. 'Then they recognized that the personage was the Lord.
Then other disciples came in a little ship dragging a net laden with fishes. When _ they reached the land, they saw a fire of coals there, with fish laid upon it.
They saw bread also. Then Jesus told them to bring the fish they had caught. And Peter went up and drew the fish to land. The unbroken net contained 153 "great fishes." } Then Jesus commanded the fishermen to come and dine, and He served them the bread and fishes.
After the Lord had served the disciples he turned to Peter asking: "Simon Peter, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these?"
Being assured of Peter's love, He continued: "Feed my lambs." 'Twice again He asked the same question.
Each time, following Peter's reassuring reply, the Master said: "Feed my sheep." The inference is frequently made that this commission referred only to spiritual food, but that it may have had a wider meaning is evidenced by the fact that the apostles, in the direct aftermath of the Ascension, inaugurated a welfare movement, under the law of consecration, for the temporal sustenance of the Saints. Acts 4:34-35 states: "Neither said any of them that ought of the things which they possessed was his Page 101 102 own; but they had all things in common....
Neither was there any among them that lacked; for as many as were possessors of lands or houses sold them, and brought the prices of the things that were sold. And laid them down at the apostles' feet: and distribution was made to every man according as he had need."
Joses of Cypres is mentioned as one who sold his land and gave all to the apostles. The story is also told of Annanias and his wife Sapphira who sold their possessions but selfishly retained a portion of the money. 'This brought Peter's stinging rebuke: "While it remained, was it not thine own? And after it was sold, was it not in thine own power? Why hast thou conceived this thing in thine heart?
Thou hast not lied to men, but unto God."
Suppose today the Master, considering our worldly possessions, should ask each individually: "Lovest thou me more than these?" Then, following our reassuring reply, suppose He should say: "Feed my sheep." 'To what extent would each comply?
Today the Lord does not require  that we give our all, but He has given us the law of tithing, which we, as a people, have only partially observed. We have also been charged to pay a fast offering.
Many there are who have been blessed with affluence who console themselves with the thought that they have fully met the fast offering requirement when they have paid the amount: suggested by the Church as the minimum per capita amount.
These persons could easily contribute many times this amount.
Were the fast fund commensurate with the ability of Latter-day Saint people to pay, the welfare movement would be fully financed; moreover, the present heavy call upon the Presiding Bishopric for assistance from the tithing funds to help wards meet monthly deficits incurred through providing for underprivileged members, would be eliminated.
Church members should advisedly and prayerfully consider the following lines: If everybody cared enough, If everybody shared enough, Everybody would have enough. A TWO OF ME Eva Willes Wangsgaard There always will be two of me, Two birds of different feather. One loves the earth, and one would be Away beyond the heather, Beyond the wind, beyond the sun— I long to set her winging, But that would rob the other one Of all she knows of singing. Little Habits That Grow Into Ruling Forces Lella Marler Hoggan ABITS are established ways of thinking, speaking, and acting. An old Chinese proverb runs: "Men do not grow good or bad suddenly."
Little by little, day by day, we form the habits that hold us to a certain course of action. We are masters of our fate or slaves thereto according to the habits that tule our lives. A hunter while riding in the mountains one day came upon a wolf's den in the rocks. The wolf puppies lay cuddled together warm and soft and cozy. The hunter gathered two of them up and carried them home to his children for pets.
While the puppies appeared harmless, they soon became strong and _ vigorous. 'They began to growl and snap and bite at the children and were soon too dangerous to be kept in the home.
Habits are like that.
Frequently those that at first appear harmless grow in strength until they become a menace.
There are habits that serve and uplift us, and there are habits that weaken us and carry us to our doom. Unrestrained, vicious habits will betray a man's best hopes and highest ideals; they will rob him of his health, his honor, and all that he holds dear. But just as undesirable habits grow in strength from day to day, just as they enslave us and rob us of our peace of mind and joy of spirit, so also do desirable habits become a power for good in the lives of all those who cultivate them. The person who establishes good health habits is not inclined to do things that will injure his body or shorten his life.
Those who train themselves in gentlé manners and cultured speech, find that self-control is not difficult of attainment. To follow a moral code that is wholesome and uplifting protects one against harmful influences.
Having formed the habit of praying earnestly and often, one finds he has a key to spiritual guidance which » he will not willingly give up for some cheap substitute.
There are eternal laws underlying all of life.
Obedience to any law brings its reward. | Whatever we think or say or do effects our lives to a greater or lesser degree. When Rip Van Winkle dropped into dissolute ways he kept telling himself, "We won't count this time." But all the time Mother Nature was counting and recording the very thing he was trying to forget. She keeps an accurate record and collects from each of us what is coming to her, to the last, least portion.
Habits once formed are not easily overcome. It takes conscious and persistent effort on our part to change any established custom. The Master gave us the true plan Page 103 104 — |  of life and salvation. But truth serves and saves us only to the extent that we incorporate it into our lives. Why not cultivate habits that will help us to progress, rather than permit undesirable ones to creep into our lives and thwart our highest purposes?.. Elbert Hubbard advised that we cultivate only those habits that we are willing should master us. All of us, no doubt, have read the story in scripture of the foolish man who built his house upon the: sand, and the wise man who built his house upon the rock.
When the winds and the storm came and beat upon those houses, the one built upon the sand fell to its destruction, but the one on the stone foundation stood firm through all the fury of the gale. Our life structure is continually being subjected to similar tests. If we build up habits of strength and character we are laying the foundation stones for a house that will stand against all of the trials and temptations which may confront us. We shall not have to delude ourselves with the thought, "We won't count this time;" rather, we shall be glad to assure ourselves that this time and every time will count in establishing the wholesome habits that we are glad to have rule us. A ART OF LIVING Gertrude Perry Stanton I loved the works of master minds In music and in art; Reveled in poetry sublime— A farmer won my heart.
What leisure has a farmer's wife Such tastes to gratify? I wrote my symphony in soup, My poetry in pie. I found great songsters with the birds, And sculpture in the hills, Most gorgeous paintings in the west, And rhythm in the rills. I lived an opera every day— Adventure, ecstasy; My children sang the solo parts, The chorus rang from me. My jellies showed the colors rate That painters love to use; I modeled in my bread and rolls— And thus I wooed my muse. "Vegetables for Vitality for Victory"' James M. Kirkham Secretary, Church Beautification Committee HERE is one great objective before the United States right now, and that is victory. We are.
Asked to direct all of our thoughts, re