"For he was baptized while he was yet in his childhood, and was ordained by the angel of God at the time he was eight days old unto this power, to overthrow the kingdom of the Jews, and to make straight the way of the Lord before the face of his people, to prepare them for the coming of the Lord, in whose hand is given all power." Doctrine and Covenants 84:27, 28. 4. He was reared 1 in the hilly country of Judea under spiritual care: "And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, and was in the deserts till the day of his sheng unto Israel." Luke 1:80. 5. He was divinely commissioned as the forerunner of the Savior: "There was a man sent from God, whose name was John. "The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, that all men through him might believe. "He was not that Light, but was sent to bear witness of that Light." John 1:6, 7, 8. 6. He baptized the Savior of the world, with water, under his special appointment or instructions: "Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jordan, unto John, to be baptized of him. "But John forbade him, saying, I have need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me? "And Jesus answering, said unto him, Suffer it to be so now: for thus it becometh us to fuifil all righteousness. Then he suffered him. "And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him: "And, lo, a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Matthew 3:13-17. 7. He was declared to be second to no prophet ever born: "Verily I say unto you, Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist: nothwithstanding he that is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he." Matthew 11:11. 8. He was a valiant missionary: "John did baptize in the wilderness, and preach the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins. 
 "And there went out unto him all the land of Judea, and they of Jerusalem, and were all baptized of him in the river of Jordan, confessing their sins. "And John was clothed with camel's hair, and with a girdle of a skin about his loins; and he did eat locusts and wild honey; "And preached, saying, There cometh one mightier than I after me, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose." Mark 1:4-7. 9. He was imprisoned and slain for his fearless denunciation of iniquity. "For Herod had laid hold on John, and bound him, and put him in prison for Herodias' sake, his brother Philip's wife. "For John said unto him, It is not lawful for thee to have her. "And when he would have put him to death, he feared the multitude, because they counted him as a prophet. "But when Herod's birthday was kept, the daughter of Herodias danced before them, and pleased Herod. "Whereupon he promised with an oath to give her whatsoever she would ask. "And she, being before instructed of her mother, said, Give me here John Baptist's head in a charger. "And the king was sorry: nevertheless, for the oath's sake, and them which sat with him at meat, he commanded it to be given her. "And he sent, and beheaded John in the prison. "And his head was brought in a charger, and given to the damsel: and she brought it to her mother." Matthew 14:3-12. 10. He was resurrected in the resurrection of Jesus the Christ: (See Doctrine and Covenants 133:55.) 11. He came from heaven and restored the Aaronic Priesthood: (See Doctrine and Covenants, Section 13.) 12. He bore his testimony to Joseph Smith concerning the divinity of Jesus Christ: (See Doctrine and Covenants 93:16, 17.) 13. He will come with the Lord to the earth at the next general resurrection: (See Doctrine and Covenants 133:55.) Questions and Problems 1. Which part of the complete baptism of Jesus was performed by John?., 2. Give scriptural evidence that John the Baptist was resurrected at the time of the resurrection of the Redeemer and that he will be present with the Savior at the next general resurrection. (See Doctrine and Covenants 133:55.) 3. Give proof that John the Baptist bore his testimony to Joseph Smith concerning Christ. (See Doctrine and Covenants, Section 93.) 4, Find in Mbtthew chapter 3 proof of John the Baptist's meekness. 5. How were John and Jesus related by blood? 6. Was John blessed by his father and if so, when?