		BIOGRAPHY OF EMMA BURROWS.
	SISTER EMMA BURROWS was born Dec. 10,
1840, in Granthane, Lincolnshire, England. Her
father’s name was James Roberts and her
mother’s name was Abagal Leeson. She was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in Granthane. She was married to
Joseph Burrows on May 14, 1857, she emigrated to
Utah, May 6, 1863, arrived in Salt Lake City Oct.
3, 1863. She removed to Ogden Valley in 1865 
taking up her labor in the Relief Society as
teacher until 1876, when she was sustained as
Secretary, which place she occupied until her
death.
	She succeeded Sister Moselle Hall as Presi-
dent of the Young Ladies Association in 1885,
which position she also occupied until her death.
	She was the mother of nine children, six are
left to mourn her loss. She also raised an infant
of F. A. Hammond’s which was left without a
mother.
	She died May 4, 1896, at Huntsville Utah.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
Passed by the Y. L. M. I. Association. Huntsville
			May 30, 1896- 
	WHEREAS, The Omnipotent Ruler of the uni-
verse has, in His infinite wisdom, called from us
our useful and much esteemed Sister Emma
Burrows, and
	WHEREAS, Her position as President of the Y.
L. M. I. A. held during so many years, makes it
fitting for us to record our appreciation of her
untiring efforts devoted to our welfare, therefore
be it
	RESOLVED, That the vacancy in this Society,
caused by her sudden departure, will be deeply
realized by all members of the Association, and
will prove a grevious loss to our organization as
well as to the ward in which she has proven her-
self a useful and much appreciated leader.
	RESOLVED, That with deep sympathy with the
bereaved family and friends of the deceased, we
express an earnest hope that even under such
trying circumstances they will be comforted and
acknowledge the hand of God in their bereave-
ment. 
	RESOLVFD, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, one sent to the
members of the family, and that they be recorded
in the records of the Association.

Sister Emma true and faithful,
	Thou hast left us gone before.
Although thou’rt numbered with the faithful,
	Thy works shall live for evermore.
