ONEIDA STAKE.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the: Relief
Society, convened at Trout Creek, June.7,
1896.
	President Elizabeth Fox with her coun-
selors, Mary A. Hawks and Delilah. E.
Dudley, met at Mink Creek, Saturday,
June 6, at 12 o’clock, where the first
special meeting was held with the Mink
Creek Relief Society. They were kindly
entertained by Brother and Sister Graham.
	Meeting commenced at 2 o’clock. Pre-
sent on the stand, besides the Stake officers,
were Pres’t. Graham, counselors and
secretary, and one of the counselors to the
Bishop, (John Olsen.)
	Meeting opened with usual exercises,
Pres’t. Fox presiding. All the speakers
felt well, and much good and timely in-
struction was given, and all felt blessed.
	From Mink Creek we proceeded on our
journey in company with Brother Anderson
of Franklin, Idaho, to Trout Ceeek, where
we were kindly taken care of by the sisters.
	Sunday morning we met with the Sab-
bath school in a nice meeting house. Every
thing was so neat and clean. The aisles
are carpeted with new home made carpet,
the building is seated with comfortable
home made seats, the whole interior being
painted in a delicate drab color. They
have an organ, a good supply of music-
books as well as a good supply of Sabbath
School books. The stand is also carpeted
and seated with comfortable chairs, table
and Church standard works, and last but
not least, a beautiful set of silver Sacrament


[Column 1]
dishes given by the Relief Society of the
ward. The house was divided into apart-
ments by curtains, while the walls are
painted in cream pink with a beautiful
border of neat design.
	Bishop McGee Harris and Superintendent
John Turner were present. Miss Violet
Sorenson played the organ in a masterly
way, and in connection with the children’s
clear voices, produced soul-stirring music
as they sang the praises of our Father in
heaven.
	At 2 o’clock the Relief Society Con-
ference convened. Meeting was called to
order and opened by the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, Pres’t. Elizabeth Fox
presiding.
	Bishop Harris of Trout Creek, Bishop
Bennett of Mound Valley Ward, Pres’t.
Eliza Hale of Mound Valley Relief Society,
Counselor Jessie Harris of Thatcher Ward,
and Pres’t. Ingrid Graham of Mink Creek,
were present on the stand with the presid-
ing officers. After the roll was called,
the minutes of the last Conference were read
and accepted, and a favorable report was
given by each representative present.
	Counselor D. E. Dudley was happy to
make the acquaintance of so many bright
and intelligent faces, but felt a timidity in
attempting to instruct them; but she real-
zed it was the work of the Lord that we
are engaged in. We came not to do our
own will, but the Father’s who sent us;
and gave much instruction to the mothers,
daughters and teachers, and exhorted all to
be up with the spirit of the times, and to
keep the commandments of God, in fact
to “Seek first the kingdom of God and its
righteouness and all things shall be added.”
	Counselor Hawks spoke of the difference
between the peace enjoyed in our midst and
the horrors and wickedness that was going
on in the world. Advised all to step for-
ward in performance of every duty, and see
that their lamps were filled and burning
and ready at any time to go out to meet
every call and requirement made of them
by the servants of God.
	President Fox felt well pleased to again
meet with the Saints living in the vicinity
of Trout Creek, and was pleased to see
their new meeting house, and to feel the
quiet spirit of peace which seemed to pre-
vail in their midst. Said she attended the
General Relief Society Conference in Salt
Lake City in April, and testified to the
spirit and power enjoyed and manifested in
the meeting held by the sisters, and to the
interest manifested, and the good counsel
and instructions given there by the breth-
ren who were present. She spoke at great
length on the counsel and advice and items
of business given at the General Conference.
Instructed the sisters to keep on and be
encouraged in the good work, to persevere
in the storing of grain, caring for the poor,
the sick and afflicted etc.
	Bishop Harris spoke a short time. He
appreciated the labors and assistance of the
Relief Society in his ward, and testified to
their faithfulness. Bishop Bennett also
gave good counsel and instruction in a brief
manner. Conference adjourned for three
months, and the meeting then closed by
singing and prayer.
	At five o’clock we proceeded on our
journey for ten or fifteen miles, and we
were kindly entertained over night by
Brother and Sister Harris of Thatcher Ward.
	On the morning of the 8th we started for
Chesterfield at 7 o’clock a. m. Noon found
us at Bancroft, where we rested and were

[Column 2]
refreshed at Brother and Sister Banks, who
were old acquaintances of Sister Hawk’s,
lately of Spanish Fork.
	We arrived at Chesterfield in time to fill
our appointments at 5 o’clock. The sisters
all felt well and we had a good meeting.
Bishop Tollman not being at home, his
counselors met with us. There we were
kindly entertained for the night by Brother
and Sister Muir and Sister Call.
	We started for Dempsie Ward the morn-
ing of the 9th., at 7 a. m. On account of
not being acquainted with the roads, we
traveled two hours and a half on the wrong
side of the Port Neuf River, and did not
have time to retrace our steps, so we were
obliged to ford the river, which we did
very comfortably, having found a good
ford. We then proceeded on through the
canyon on a good dugway, high enough to
have a good view of the falls with all their
grandeur until we came suddenly to the
opening, where we found Brother and Sis-
ter Boice and Sister Rhoda Bingham, with
a beautiful dinner in waiting for us, includ-
ing a large platter of beautiful salmon trout.
To say we enjoyed their hospitality would
not half describe our feelings, as they all
were old time acquaintances; and the only
tiling we regretted was that we could not
stay with them longer, and take part in
catching as well as in eating the fish. We
visited the Warm Springs, where so many
go every year to bathe in its waters, to re-
ceive the benefit of its medical virtues.
	We held a spirited meeting at two o’clock
in which all felt well, and much good in-
struction was given by the company, as well
as by the local sisters and brethren; a full
report of which would make this article too
lengthy. We proceeded on as far as Mc.
Cammon, at 4 o’clock, leaving our sisters
and brethren with a hearty, God speed,
standing at the meeting house door. We
reached Mc. Cammon at 4 o’clock, and held
an evening meeting at Brother Norton’s
house, where we remained over night, and
took the train for Pocatello at 11 a. m. next
morning.
	At 2 p. m. our meeting was called to or-
der at Pocatello, with a full house. Present
on the stand was Stake President Fox,
counselors Mary Hawks and Delilah E.
Dudley, President Regenia Pond, Coun-
selors Mary Ann Spillman and Nettie Har-
grave, Secretary C. Harrison and Silva
Dawson; also Bishop Charles Cannon,
counselor N. P. Nelson, Elders N. S.
Pond, and Morgan Jaines. Meeting opened
by the usual exercises, President Elizabeth
Fox presiding. The roll was called,
showing fifty four members enrolled. The
minutes were excellent and given in a very
able manner, showing both tact and ability.
	Pres’t. Pond gave a pleasing report of
their labors, and welcomed the sisters to
Pocatello; said their visit was very much
appreciated.
	Pres’t. Fox was pleased to be able to
visit Pocatello, and find the Relief Society
in such good circumstances, and feeling so
well. She laid before the meeting the in-
structions given at the General Conference
in April, and exhorted them to continue in
the good work etc. She was followed by
Mary Hawks and Delilah E. Dudley, who
each in her turn gave excellent instruction.
	Bishop Cannon testified to the faithful
labors of the sisters, and said in the strength
of the different organizations, lay the
strength of the Church.
	Counselor N. P. Nelson followed with

[Column 2]
many words of counsel and encouragement;
so also did Brother Morgan Jaines.
	Sister Homes, late from the Island of
Tasmania, gave an account of how she re-
ceived the Gospel and how she had been
able to emigrate to Zion, and how much
she appreciated being with the Saints.
	At the close of the meeting we were
kindly escorted to the adjoining room be-
longing to the Relief Society, where a
grand banquet awaited all. Tables were
set the whole length of the room, and
beautifully decorated with flowers of all
kinds too numerous to mention, and loaded
with every variety of cake, ice cream,
lemonade, angel food etc. After the guests
and members were seated and thanks re-
turned to the bountiful Giver of all, we
enjoyed a regular time of feasting and
visiting was participated in while willing
hands and loving hearts administered to the
wants of all, even to the least child; and
the sick were also remembered. More
than one hundred were entertained at the
tables before the feast was ended.
	One grand feature of it all is the Relief
Society have dishes enough of their own to
set the tables for a large number, a cook
stove, pans, cutlery, table linen etc., and
a large convenient cupboard to store them
all away securely between times of using in
their own comfortable Relief Society meet-
ing house They also own a full set of
silver ware, which they keep elsewhere for
security’s sake. Much praise is due to those
who so willingly administered to the wants
of all present. In the evening we attended
a meeting of the Woodman’s Club held at
the Pavilion. A program was rendered
with very good music and recitations, and
speeches and some business; at the close of
the meeting dancing was introduced. This
we did not stay to see as the evening was
far spent, but we returned to Sister Pond’s
and Sister Nelson’s for the night.
	Pocatello is a neat little town full of life
and business, and is the County seat of
Bannock Co. There are many good build-
ings, prominent among which are four
or five churches of different denominations,
two large schoolhouses, very roomy and
commodious looking, banks and stores, mu-
sic stores, machine shops, grocery stores,
besides dwelling houses etc.
	We left Pocatello the morning of the
nth. at 7 o’clock, in company with Brother
Nelson. We traveled about twenty-five
miles in a comfortable buggy, and we en
joyed seeing the natural scenery of the
mountains and river, and the huge masses
of lava rock piled up in walls or tumbled
into piles by the thousand tons, and ex-
tending for ten or fifteen miles in an un-
broken chain along the bed of the Port-
Neuf River. At a glance the multitudes of
rock which compose the masses, appear to
be the same shape, but on closer inspection
no two are exactly alike. One would
think to look at them that the very foun-
dation of the earth had been ploughed up.
We passed through a part of the Indian
Reservation, where you will see once in a
while a family living in a log cabin with
a stable and a corrall and a small patch of
grain partly fenced, and many are living in
a semi-civilized condition. We reached
Garden Creek in time to hold our meeting,
which was appointed at 11 o’clock. Pres’t.
Martha Henderson and her two counselors
and also Bishop Capel were present.
	Meeting opened with singing by the choir
and the usual exercises, and the speakers
were as follows: President Elizabeth Fox,


Mary Hawks, Delilah E. Dudley, Brother
Nelson, of Pocatello, and Bishop Capel. I
must not forget to say they had a good sub-
stantial new meeting house, and a good
choir with a good organ which is a great
help in any ward.
	We continued our journey after bidding
good bye to Brother Nelson and the brethren
and sisters of Garden Creek, to Nine Mile,
where we had a much needed rest that
evening, and stayed over night at Pres’t.
Coffin’s.
	We held our final meeting at Oxford, at
2 o’clock on the afternoon of the 12th.
There were present on the stand, besides
the Stake Presidency, Pres’t. Lewis,
and Counselors Hannah Croshaw and Lynna
Fisher, Secretary Susie Homer, Bishop
Lewis and Elder Nephi Cummings. The
instructions here given were similar to
our former meetings except that views
of a political character were added, and
quite an interesting time was given to this
subject.
	Elder George Lewis who had just return-
ed from an Australian mission, gave us an
account of his labors while there and bore
a strong testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel. From Oxford we proceeded on to our
several homes, with a feeling of comfort
and relief to think we had once again been
permitted to do our duty and return home
in safety, with many loving remembrances
of our faithful sisters.
	ELIZABETH FOX, Pres't.
	MARY A. HAWKS, Counselor.
	D. E. DUDLEY. Sec. pro tem.


