R. S. REPORT.
		BINGHAM STAKE.
Dear Sister:
	THINKING a sketch of our late Conference
held at Iona, June 13, 1896, might be in-
teresting, we thought we would write a 
few lines for we felt highly honored by
having present with us Apostle F. D. 
Richards and Sister Zina D. H. Young,
and also Sister J. S. Richards.
	After going through with the general 
exercises President E. J. Bennett said she
was more than pleased in having present
with us one of the Apostles and our be-
loved sisters, and also Brother Stevens, and 
we would do away with our verbal reports;
stated that the Stake officers of the Relief
Society had just visited nearly every Society
in this Stake and found them in a prosper-
ous condition.
	President Zina D. H. Young instructed
mothers to encourage the reading of the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants in their
families, spoke some on the organization of 
the Relief Society and said we should learn
to love one another. Referred to the great


work that was being done in the Temple,
and also the great responsibility resting
upon us in doing the work for our dead;
spoke of the great work the Society was
doing, urged the sisters to be earnest in
prayer; Sister Young had heard the Prophet
Joseph say if we would be diligent in
prayer we would never lose the faith.
Gave many good instructions, and among
others did not forget the storing of grain.
Sister Monch of Ogden, then spoke a short
time to the sisters and gave many good
instructions.
	Sister Jane S. Richards then spoke to
the sisters, compared the great blessings
we have to day with the hardships in the
early days of the Church, and said in look-
ing upon the intelligent faces before her
and the bright prospects we have in the
future, she felt encouraged; urged us to
exercise a spirit of love and charity
especially to the sick and poor. Referred
to many of her experiences in the church.
Felt to desire that we might have a house
built and dedicated to the Lord. Apostle
Richards said these Societies were of great
interest to him, and he said how necessary
it was that man and woman should work
constantly together and that woman was to
partake of the blessings conferred upon
man; gave much encouragement and good
advice to all present, Brother Stevens
spoke of the great success the sisters had
made in storing grain, and also of the time
that we might need it.
	President Ricks of the Bannock Stake
and President Steel of Bingham Stake,
and Patriarch Hinckley and President
Bennett gave some very timely counsel and
encouraged the sisters in the Relief Society
work. 		E. J. BENNETT, Secretary


