EDITORIAL NOTES.

	IT is most earnestly requested by the
President of the Relief Society, Sister Zina
D. H. Young, that each Stake of Zion or-
ganized, should send forthwith a complete
list of the Stake officers of said Society, and
the name of every President and Secretary
in the Stake with the name of the Ward
where such officers have charge of Society, and
the Post Office address of each, so that
there may be a complete list for reference
published. It is now about six months
since this request was first made, and only
twenty have reported. Stake Secretaries
who have not sent will please take notice,
and send in a complete list according to
these directions immediately. Address the
Secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Constitution
Building, Salt Lake City.
	OUR readers and patrons will please take
notice that classes in obstetrics will com-
mence in October, and in this connection
we wish to say a few words in favor of this
study and training. The sisters whose
advertisements appear in our columns, are
reliable women, and proficient in the medi-
cal profession. They are women of ability
and well known in the community and
throughout the State. There is great
need of competent help in the outside
settlements, and women adapted to this
line of work should prepare themselves
thoroughly before undertaking to practice;
and there is now no excuse for ignorance
in this respect. Every facility possible is
available, and women who study and quali-
fy themselves for this profession are pub-
lic benefactors to mankind.

[Column 2]
	Romania B. Pratt, M. D., was the first
woman from Utah to graduate in medicine
and surgery. She studied in the Woman’s
Medical College in Philadelphia, and re-
ceived her Diploma in 1877. She practised
one summer in the New England Woman’s
Hospital, and made herself familiar with
the Elmira Water Cure establishment in
New York, as well as others in different
places. Her success has proven her careful
and efficient. Dr. Pratt also took special
courses in the eye and ear under some of
the best practitioners in New York City.
Dr. Pratt was seven years resident physi-
cian in the Deseret Hospital, and her stand-
ing is well known to the Medical Board of
Salt Lake.
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp stands high in her
profession; she graduated in the Woman’s
Medical College in Philadelphia, in 1879,
and has met with excellent success in the
profession she has chosen for her life work.
She is without doubt specially well
adapted to give instruction, as all her
students testify to her aptitude in this
particular. She is a woman of great
strength of character and splendid physique,
well calculated to inspire confidence in
her patients and in those who study in her
classes. She has traveled extensively in
Utah and adjacent states and territories,
giving lectures and teaching classes. She
has had a wide range of experience in this
way which is helpful in her work to those
who come for instruction.
	IN a letter just received from Miss Susan
B. Anthony, President of the National
Suffrage Association, she expresses great
anxiety in reference to the vote of the wo-
men of Utah at this first election.
She feels that the course taken here is
going to have a great bearing upon the
question in other States and as a whole.
Her advice is precisely in accordance with
that we shall give wherever and whenever
we have occasion or opportunity to speak
upon this question. Be sure whatever we
do will help or hinder the cause elsewhere;
if the women of this State are wise discreet,
judicious and conservative, if they stand for
the best men and women in the party to
which they give their preference, and are
true to their honest convictions, then their
influence will be powerful for good. But
every woman of proper age who is entitled
to vote, should cast her vote at the coming
election, and help in this critical time to
assist in maintaining the principles she
believes conscientiously to be for the best
good of the country.


