WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


<div>[Column 1]</div>LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	Synopsis of the Minutes of the meeting
held in the Fourteenth Ward Hall, Satur-
day, May 15, 1896, President M. I.
Horne presiding. Singing “Our God we
raise to Thee’’, prayer by Sister M. O.
Brown, singing, “Welcome best of all
good meetings’’, Minutes of the previous
meeting read and approved. President
Horne addressed the sisters a short time;
spoke of the power of the adversary, but
felt we must be humble and acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all His dealings
with His people; called upon Sister Alder
to give a description of her visit with the
Tabernacle choir to San Francisco. The
secretary of the Primary Association of the

[Column 2]
15th Ward then read her minutes. Sister
Alder told of her anxiety to go to Cali-
fornia as she had never visited there and
her parents at one time resided in San
Francisco. When the company pulled out
of the depot they were a happy crowd, and
felt the Spirit of the Lord was with them.
The reception of the choir at Oakland at
the first concert when they sang the
Hallelujah Chorus, was an ovation, the
audience rose to their feet. It certainly
seemed to be appreciated there more than
here at home; thought the prayers of those
at home were being answered. Refered to
the sermon of Apostle Heber J. Grant,
had never heard anything like it—it was
grand; some of the choir had remarked
that if no one in San Francisco was con-
verted, that they themselves were, and
they wanted on their return home to live
their religion. The speaker refered to the
great good the missionaries there were
doing; urged the sisters never to forget that
the Gospel is true.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke of trusting
and sustaining our leaders; refered to the
little babe whose mother had died on the
Islands and who had been brought home
by the returning missionaries; felt that
there was a great destiny for that child.
She also exhorted the sisters to greater
diligence, and urged them to take more
interest in Temple work, and to keep the
Sabbath day holy; asked the Lord to bless
us all. Sister Alder added a few words
about the sisters in California who were
desirous of having an organization of the
Relief Society.
	Counselor Stevenson made a few re-
marks and spoke of her trip to Europe
several yeare ago, and of the
treatment she received from the pilot’s
wife when she found out that she was a
Mormon; remarked there was great need of
missionary work here at home, she had
given up every thing for her religion; felt
the need of our prayers for our young mis-
sionaries. Realized that God had changed
the hearts of the people of the world to-
wards us; knew that trials were to make
us humble, fasting and prayer would bring
a blessing; urged all to be faithful.
	Some other sisters in the congregation
bore excellent testimonies. The sisters
joined in singing “The Spirit of God” etc.
Sister Elizabeth Paul bore testimony that
while the hymn was being sung she felt
the influence of the Holy Spirit powerfully,
and a voice spoke to her, and she bore a
strong testimony of the truth of the Gospel.
Another sister bore testimony of the Word
of Wisdom, and Sister M. J. Smallie also
testified of the truth and refered to her
early experiences in the Church in Scot-
land. Related a dream she had about
a young man who had died and who ap-
peared to her and wanted to be officiated
for in the Temple; felt she wanted to
acknowledge God’s blessings to her.
	Presldent Horne closed with a few words
of blessing, Singing Doxology, prayer by
Counselor Elizabeth Webb.
