ENDEAVOR. 

Editor Woman's Journal:
	IT may be of interest to your readers to
know that the Committee of the “Inter-
national Congress for Woman’s Work and
Woman’s Endeavor”—to be heid in Berlin,
has received notice of adherence from
association in America, France, England,
Belgium, Holland, Norway, Sweden, Rus-
sia, Italy, Switzerland and Poland.
Delegates are expected to be present from
all these countries, and the discussion of
economic, sociological and educational
questions will doubtless be of interest to all
present. Certificates of participation will
be at the rate of five marks ($1.19), and
are obtainable from the secretary, Frau
Lena Morgenstern, or from Frau Minna
Cauer, editress of “Die Frauenbewegung"
—from which journal I glean this infor-
mation.
	The International Congress of Women
held in Paris in May, developed somewhat
into a socialistic Congress, owing, per-
chane, to the fact that the French people
do not as yet realize that there is great
earnestness of purpose in the work of the
woman of the present day. Be her api-
tude economics, literature, science, medi-
cine or politics, the woman of the period
intends to hold her own—even if the stu-
dent of the Latin Quarter objects—and to
present her subject with open doors, so that
there will be free discussion.
	This year the German women take the
lead in the discussion of subjects of inter-
national interest; next year there is to be a
Congress in Belgium. The gradual pro-
gress in parliamentary ruling, and in the
elevated tone of the papers presented at our
own National Council of Women, at our
own Federation of Women’s Clubs, all in-
dicate that the more conservative element
dominates, and that there is gain in the
ranks of woman workers outside of their
own Lares and Penates.
	At the meeting of the League of the
International Press Clubs, first held in
Buffalo, two members of the Woman’s
National Press Association became active
workers in that body—Mrs. E. S. Crom-
well being made one of the Vice-Presidents,
and Mrs. O’Donoghue being placed on the
Executive Committee. Again your cor-
respondent has the honor of being a mem-
ber of the International Committee for the
“Internationaler Congress fur Frauenwerke
and Frauenbestrebungen in Berlin” above
referred to, and as a delegate is to present a
paper on “Woman’s progress in America”
(being written in German, its title is “Die
Frauenbewegungen in den Vereinigten-
Staaten”) before the body in September.
	The able paper of Mrs. Henrotin, at the
biennial meeting of the Federation—held in
Louisville—has awakened interest wher-
ever and whenever read, and its stirring
words in regard to “woman’s work for
humanity”, will long re-echo in the minds
of those who listened to her, and who long
since recognized her work and that of Mrs.
Palmer in Chicago.
	Two new books have greatly interested
me; the one entitled “Die hohere Frauen-
bildung in Grossbritannien,” by Karl
Heinrich Schaible, presents an historical
record of woman’s achievements in Great
Britain; the other, “Die Sociale Lage der
Frau”, by E. Gnauck-Kuhue, plainly
indicates how much woman has had to con-

[Column 2]
tend with in endeavoring to hold her own
as regards social, economic and industrial
conditions.
	The “Vita Femminile”, published since
July 1, 1895, in Rome, Italy, deals almost
entirely with the woman question in Italy.
it is edited by Prof. Guiseppe D’Aguanno
and others. While first issued quarterly
it now appears monthly, and its latest
numbers indicate that woman not only has
university privileges—a fact quite well
known—but that she is acquiring recog-
nized positions in post, telegraph and
telephone offices, which must seem rather a
novelty out of record with the dolce far-
niente life of the majority of women of
Southern climes.
	FRANCES GRAHAM FRENCH.
Washington, D. C. July 10, 1896. Ex.


