ABRAHAM HOAGLAND CANNON.

	IT is quite impossible for one who knew
and loved Brother Abraham to write any-
thing good enough to satisfy one’s self, and
yet one is unwilling to be silent and not
offer a tribute to his memory. He was in-
deed one of “nature’s noblemen”, liberally
endowed with lofty characteristics; not only
those which entitled him to foremost places
among his fellowmen and his brethren in
the Church, but the finer qualities of the
heart which endeared him to all those who
love superior virtues, purity of life, refine-
ment and heavenly charity. “None knew
him but to love him” may truthfully be
said of Brother Abraham.
	So much has already been said by the
very ablest editors and writers, so many
tender and beautiful tributes paid to his
life and character, that one approaches the
subject with great diffidence; and yet the
writer feels in her inmost heart, to cast in
her offering among the many who admired
and felt an exceptional friendship for the
deceased, cut off in the midst of his great
usefulness, when every prospect of future
promise was at its highest and brightest. It
was said in days of old,
	“Whom the gods love die young.”
And surely our Heavenly Father Himself
loved such a one as Elder Cannon; and cer-
tainly His blessing was upon him, for in all he
did and in all that transpired with him he
seemed highly favored and blest of the
Lord. Looking back upon his course from
his boyhood until the time when his spirit
took its departure from mortality, one must
acknowledge his remarkable personality,
which attracted all who came into his
presence. Very few men possess this
personal attraction in as great a degree as
did Brother Abraham. His simplicity of
manner and of language were among his
pleasing traits. He was eloquent in his
public speaking, in plain simple language,
no ostentation, no show of oratory, but
powerfully impressive, straight-forward and
clear in all his sermons and addresses. He
had an intuitive understanding of people,
and therefore knew how to deal tactfully
with individual peculiarities, and eccentri-
cities of men and women with whom he
had business relations, or even casual ac-
quaintance.
	Brother Cannon was more than courteous,
he was naturally an exceedingly gracious
gentleman; beloved by men and women
everywhere, in all places where he had
traveled either on business, or as a mission-

[Column 2]
ary. The people and the Latter-day Saints
who knew him most intimately, and real-
zed his arduous labors and the heavy
burdens and responsibilities that rested up-
on him, had no thought of his dying; it
seemed remote from the minds of all. To
be sure he was sometimes warned that he
was doing too much, but still there seemed
more and more given him to do, and he
was ever and always willing. He possessed
business capacity in a very unusual degree,
and all public and private interests pros-
pered in his hands by means of his thrift,
diligence and successful management. But
say what we will, extol him as we may, he
has gone, and we shall see him no more in
this life. The young Elders in Israel
would do well to follow in his footsteps, to
emulate his example, to be as true, as
honest, as faithful and as obedient to coun-
sel and to the laws of God, as was this
young and valiant hero, in the battle of
life. His name and fame will live forever
in the hearts of this people, and his child-
ren have a heritage far more precious than
gold, or silver, or precious gems, or houses,
or lands, or other worldly possessions; the
unsullied life of an Elder in Israel, an
Apostle of Christ, whose example he sought
to follow; verily, “A good name is better to
be chosen than great riches.”
	Abraham Hoagland Cannon was born
in Salt Lake City, March 12, 1859; his
parents were George Q. and Elizabeth
Hoagland Cannon. President Cannon was
away in the Eastern States upon a mission
at the time of his birth. In his boyhood he
had the best advantages of school educa-
tion the times afforded in the ward schools,
and afterwards at the Deseret University.
He was naturally studious, and made good
use of his opportunities.
	His first mission was to Europe, and he
labored first in the Nottingham Conference
in England, until he was assigned to the
Swiss and German mission, where he
labored assiduously and converted many to
the truth of the Gospel; he became quite
“proficient in the German language, and
wrote some of the hymns which the Ger-
man Saints now sing in their congregations.”
He returned home in June 1882. His
mother died while he was absent upon this
mission.
	“On the 9th of October 1892, Elder Can-
non was ordained one of the First Seven
Presidents of Seventies, and on October 6,
1889, he was sustained at the General Con-
ference of the Church as one of the Twelve
Apostles. From that time he has been the
jnnior member of the Council of Apostles.”
	In all the duties pertaining to his calling and
ministry in the Church, he was scrupulously
exact and faithful; his fidelity and integrity
to the truth and in every relation of life,
are unquestioned and unquestionable. The
persecution borne by the Saints at the time
of the enforcement of the Edmund’s law,
he endured without a murmur; and his
heroic conduct on the occasion of his sen-
tence, and the explanation made to the
Judge, as published in the Deseret News,
from which we have copied it here, fully
illustrates his views, and is abundant testi-
mony of the sincerity of his sublime faith
in the principle of the Gospel for which he
was to suffer imprisonment.
	“As illustrative of his zeal and fidelity to
the Gospel may be cited an incident in
connection with the imprisonment referred
to, when he gave expression to views
characteristic of his whole life in its highest

[Column 3]
integrity to his convictions of right. He
had entered into the order of plural mar-
riage, and on March 17, 1886, being at that
time twenty-six years of age, he was sen-
tenced by Judge Zane to a term of six
months in the penitentiary for his obser-
vance of that law of God. When called to
receive the judgment of the court he said:”
	“I would like to state, your honor, that I have
always endeavored to keep the laws of the United
States, because I have been taught by my parents
that the Constitution was a sacred instrument.
That I have failed in this respect, and now stand
before you convicted of the crime of unlawful co-
habitation, is due to the fact that I acknowledge
a higher law than that of man, which is the law
of God; and that law being a part of my religion,
sir, I have attempted to obey it. When I em-
braced this religion, I promised to place all that I
had, even to life itself, upon the altar, and I ex-
pect to abide by that covenant which I made
and, sir, I hope the day will never come when I
must sacrifice principle, even to procure life or
liberty. Honor, sir, to me, is higher than any-
thing else upon the earth; and my religion is
dearer to me than anything else that I have yet
seen. I am prepared, sir, for the judgment of
the court.”
	Brother Cannon’s illness and death have
cast a gloom over the community, and it
will be some time before his friends (even
outside the family) recover from the shock;
but the Saints know what it is to bow to
the Providence of God in the greatest sor-
row, and acknowledge the hand of the
Lord in the death however sudden, of their
beloved ones, though taken as Brother
Abraham was in the prime of life, with his
bright and spotless armor on, full of zeal,
of courage, and of hope. And though we
mourn his absence and deeply feel his loss, 
yet we are comforted for as Paul says,
	“But I would not have you to be ignorant,
brethren, concerning them which are asleep,
that ye sorrow not as others thvt have no hope.”
	Apostle Abraham H. Cannon departed
this life, at his home in Cannon Ward, Salt
Lake City, July 19, 1896, at fifteen minutes
after four o’clock in the morning of the
Sabbath day. His funeral services were
held in the large Tabernacle in this City on
the following Sunday, July 26. The dec-
orations at the Tabernacle were very
elaborate and elegant. White crepe draped
tastefully and looped with cord and tassel
in the most graceful way on the stands
and the pillars near, as well as the great
organ. Ornamental flowers and shrubs
adorned the stands and platform in all the
available places. Tributes of flowers in
artistic designs came from many of the
relatives and friends. Several of the floral
pieces were surmounted with white doves
emblematic of the purity of the life of the
deceased. The effect of the whole was
loveliness itself, and surpassed anything
ever before attempted in the building, at
any time.
	The seating arrangements were as perfect
as possible; officers and employees of com-
panies and organizations of which Brother
Cannon was a member, were seated at the
right of the center aisle; the family and re-
latives with President George Q. Cannon,
(the father) at the head in the seats at the
left of the center aisle. There was no dis-
play of mourning apparel by any of the
family, and there was no need, for their
grief was too intense for outward sem-
blance.
	In the stand of the First Presidency were
Presidents Wilford Woodruff and Joseph
F. Smith, Patriarch John Smith, and of the
Apostles, President Lorenzo Snow, Elders


[Column 1]
F. D. Richards and H. J. Grant. The
next stand was occupied by Elders Brigham
Young, J. H. Smith, F. M. Lyman, Geo.
Teasdale, J. W. Taylor and M. W. Mer-
rill of the Quorum of the Apostles and
Elder Moses Thatcher who came in later,
and Elder Jos. E. Taylor and C. W. Pen-
rose of the Salt Lake Stake Presidency.
On the third stand were the Presiding
Council of Seventies and of High Priests
Quorums, and on the fourth, the Presid-
ing Bishopric and others.
	The casket was placed in the center of
the front platform between the floral em-
blems, and on the elegant white casket
were some of the most beautiful pale and
delicately arranged flowers. And one
could not help realizing these touching
lines of the poet,
	“AFTER the burden snd heat of the day,
		The starry calm of night;
	After the rough and toilsome way,
		A sleep in the robe of white.”
	The funeral was conducted under the
auspices of the quorum of the Twelve
Apostles, President Lorenzo Snow presid-
ing. Elder H. J. Grant announced the
opening hymn (reading the first verse,)
“The Resurrection Day.” A most sublime
prayer was offered by Elder F. D. Richards.
Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley sang the well
know soprano solo from the Messiah,
“I know that my Redeemer liveth. ”
	President Lorenzo Snow was the first
speaker, and he paid a glowing tribute to
