U. W. P. C.

	ON account of other important meetings
being held on the 30th of June, which is
the regular night for the meeting of the
U. W. P. C., it was postponed until July
1st, and by consent of the President, Dr.
Ellis R. Shipp claimed the honor of enter-
taining the members at her residence, 75
Center St.
	The delightful summer evening was all
that could be desired, nature, reason and
intelligence making the occasion one long
to be remembered. Quite frequently have
we been honored with the presence of distin-
guished guests, but never before with so many
in a single evening. Among the number
were Mrs. Jennings, the honored President
of the Utah Woman’s Federation of Clubs 
of local fame, and the noted Woman
Suffrage speaker of national reputation,
Miss Elizabeth Upham Yates. The meet-
ing was called to order by the President
E. B. Wells, and opened with prayer by
Mrs. Emma J. McVicker. The Secretary
called the roll a good representation answ-
ering to their names. The minutes of
previous meeting were read and approved,
and miscellaneous business transacted. Pre-
sident Wells made a happy speech of wel-
come to our distinguished visitors.
	Mrs. E. J. McVicker gave a very interest-
ing report of her visit to Denver. In
meeting with the great number of women
united in the Colorado organization she felt a
sense of awe and reverence almost equal to
that experienced in standing in the pre-
sence of the Great Niagara. She had the
honor of presenting greetings from the
Utah clubs, and had met with the most
interested consideration, all being anxious 
to hear of this sister state. The Club Wo-
men of Denver had mutually agreed to
give no social functions on Saturdays, that
day being reserved for clubs. Spoke of
one especially brilliant affair the “Shakes-
peare breakfast”. Each lady had a
quotation from Shakespeare on her card and
was expected to give an impromptu res-
ponse in verse.
	The Denver women are very bright,
thinks the climate helps them, their work
is more bright and airy which naturally
invigorates the intellect; it is not an advan- 
tage to attempt too many things at once.
The study of Parliamentary Law helps 
brighten the mind. This club should es-
pecially excel as their work is mostly
original.
	Miss E. U. Yates was next introduced
to the Club, and all were delighted to
greet this most charming and interesting 
young woman, who had met with woman’s
clubs all over the United States. There is
nothing that so unites women as these
same clubs. 
	“Olive Schreiner’s “Book of Dreams” often
called to mind, in one of these dreams are
women seen clasping hands throughout
the world. The finest club house for wo-
men is found in Philadelphia, it is a
thoroughly financial success. In the
course of business, preceding its erection,
it was found that no married woman could
sign the business contract—none but spins-
ters according to law. I am glad to be
here in these gala days, when all are rejoic-
ing in Statehood; rejoiced to see that Utah’s

[Column 2]
star shines with a duplex radiance, both
sexes being recognized. Hail to the jubi-
lee that lets the captives go free! Speak not
of the ‘‘new woman” but the old in the
new environment. Better to study suffrage
than to go gossiping as women did former-
ly. The world is better every day for the
advanced conditions of women. The wo-
men of Utah stand on high vantage ground
and will not be only a text to the world, but
a sermon too."
	Mrs. I. Cameron Brown spoke of her
sojourn in Washington, which is really a
city of clubs, many fashionable and social
clubs; also a number of working women’s
clubs. But the Colonial Dames sweep
everything before them.
	The Woman’s Press Club is quite a
feature in Washington. The women of
these clubs are nearly all suffragists, and
are doing a good work.
	Some of these clubs have papers, others
will permit no manuscript whatever. One
very aristocratic club hold their shares at
$25.00 and will admit no working women.
They are all wealthy and own a fine club
house.
	Mrs. W. C. Jennings, was pleased to
have the opportunity of becoming acquaint-
ed with other clubs, thought all women
should keep posted and care to know what
other clubs are doing. Mrs. F. S. Rich-
ards was most happy to be present and
greet Miss Yates. Speaking of her work
in the Agricultural College, said it pre-
viously had a father but no mother.
Thought club work was more beneficial
than sewing bees and quiltings.”
	Miss Pearl Russell sang very sweetly,
“The Bridge of Sighs.” Miss Yates then
by request gave a most interesting ac-
count of her experience in China and the
characteristics of the Chinese women, said
they were our peers in intelligence and our
equals in arrogance. They were a most
peaceable and industrious people, “but they
have not educated their women. But what
can we say for America when we consider
that Harvard had been founded one hundred
and fifty years before they would even ad-
mit women to their annex; and even now
they measure up side by side with
men.”
	“It is an interesting fact that the very
first book ever written for the education of
women was written by a Chinese woman.
To be sure not a work of wide scope, but
we should recognize the fact. Infanticide
is not more common in China than Amer-
ca. An erroneous idea that all girl babies
have their necks wrung. Such a populous
nation—one tenth of the whole globe—
must have had mothers. They as a people
prefer sons because of their patriarchal
order of life. Girls go out from the
parental roof and become members of the
husband’s families. The daughters-in-law
become waiting maids to their husbands
families and the servants of the household.
All negotiations for marriage occur be-
tween the parents, and they sometimes get
fees for their services. In some instances
the parties most concerned never meet un-
til the marriage cermony. One advantage
is that the mother-in-law cannot complain
if she makes the selection herself. The
young men take their wives as a matter of
fact.
	“It is supposed that the custom of binding
the feet of infants originated from a princess
being born with deformed feet, and to hide
the condition the king thereupon issued a

[Column 3]
mandate that all girl babies should be thus
maimed. It is accomplished by breaking
the bone of the great toe and bending it
forward, the other toes being bent under
and bound tightly. This bandage impedes
the circulation and stops the growth. This
practice rarely begins before four years of
age. Large feet is a serious social factor
for women in China as prostitutes are
known by their large feet. But the Mis-
sion School has done much to check this
practice as they will not admit any with
bound feet.”
	The President suggested that our present
program be held over for the next meeting.
Hoped there would be increased interest
and punctual attendance. Meeting adjourn-
ed for one month. Mrs. Dickinson pro-
nounced the benediction.
	Strawberries, cake and cream were a fit-
ting finale to the “feast of reason and flow of
wit.”
