REMEMBRANCE.

[Lovingly dedicated to Mrs. Louise Spencer.]
As the years pass along in grand succession,
	Into the dim and shadowy Past,
How many we love join the grand procession,
	And with those that were,are silent classed.
Our fathers and mothers have each crossed o’er
	The river that rolls between,
And have met with those who crossed before,
	Who now only seem as a dream.
The young and the blithe, the grave and the gay,
	Who in life’s bright summer morning,
Gathered flowers of love that grew by the way,
	When the day was softly dawning.
How many, how many have grown tired and worn
	Like the child that is weary of playing,
And have laid down to rest, when hearts were all
		torn,
	And over their graves a low voice is saying:
“Softly sleep, softly sleep, lo! the battle is done,
	Sweetly rest, sweetly rest, for thy work is o’er,
Joyful now, joyful now, for thy crown is won,
	And thy home on another shore.”
As silent I muse in the eve’s changing light.
	Each friend comes to mind as in days of old,
And in the dear faces love is beaming bright
	Though their hair be dark, or shining gold.
And some that are left have gathered to day,
	To speak of the loved gone before,
May the flowers of love bloom for us while we
		stay,
	For this journey will end on another shore.
Let the flowers of friendship live on forever,
	Let remembrance shine out from the stars,
Let the breeze whisper love that is sighing ever
	And Music chant love in its changing bars.
For love is a plant that will never fade,
	Though blown by the cold winds of Time,
For its birth was immortal, and by God ’twas
		made,
	In His presence forever to shine.


Remember, remember though laughing or gay,
	That changes await us here,
Though life be happy as blooming May,
	Yet her leaves will grow yellow and sere,
And fall to the earth in whirling heaps,
Drifting hither and thither like worthless things
But our mother the earth in her bosom still
		keeps,
	The trust that the dead Summer brings.
O, wondrous life with thy toil and heat,
	Thy changes both sad and gay,
Thy kisses of joy both dear and sweet,
	And the flowers that bloom by the way,
Shed o’er us thy blessings on this happy day,
	And songs of rejoicing we’ll sing,
That in the old days that seem far away,
	In our galaxy of friends, we write Hannah T.
		King.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
June 19, 1896.


