THE FARM.

	THE farm was the home of my child-
hood and early youth, and it does indeed
seem like a heavenly vision when called to
my recollection. Yet it may be because
of my youth which makes it seem so
heavenly, for that which pleases the eye
and gladdens the heart in youth is most 
charming I admit. Yet I think the aged
would not fail to appreciate this farm when
I tell them of the many good qualities it
had.
	It had previously been the home of my
grand parents before it came into our
hands, and also been the home of their
parents before this time. They were well
acquainted with what a farm needed and
accordingly this farm was in good condi-
tion. No irrigation, plentiful showers of
rain in the State of New York.
	In the first place the fruit which was my
delight was plentiful; early apples in July,
then fall apples and again winter apples.
Cherries and plums and pears, but no
peaches in Montgomery Co., but plentiful
further west, but strawberries, raspberries,
blackberries, gooseberries and currants
were abundant, and a variety of melons
and vegetables of every kind.
	Not only so, but we made our sugar
from our maples which was a delightful
task to do. Our bees made our honey,
our geese furnished us with nice feather
beds, and our sheep with good warm
blankets and heavy coverlets, besides good
clothing which was sent to the fulling
mills to be colored and pressed; it came
home as nice as if just from the store.
	This farm also had nice flax growing
on it, with which my grandmother and
her daughters spun beautiful linen. Our
pillow cases were as fine as you would
wish to see, also our table linen, and was
durable; some of it was brought to this
valley. The sheets were coarser and also
the counterpanes, which were woven with
heavy cords or ribbed forms. My grand-
mother spun herself a set of bed curtains
woven in damask form, and the top valence
was trimmed with netting and also the sides
of the curtains made by her own hands,
and also the top valence of the window
curtains:  Our table was well supplied
with milk, butter and eggs, beside fruit
and vegetables of every kind.
	We had sweet cider bottled down to a
syrup which was ready for our mince pies,
and also for our apple sauce which was

[Column 2]
made in the fall to last all winter. This
could be used for pies if we wished.
	But I must not forget to tell you that we
made our own threshing machine. It was
a fact. Our neighbors would come and help
thresh and take their pay off the farm in
grain and fruit, cider and vegetables,
which made their tables as comfortable as
ours.
	Then we could take a load of grain and
dried fruit etc., perhaps butter and eggs, to
Albany only 40 miles from our home, and
with these could buy silk or crepe or any
nice dress goods one wished to have for an
extra occasion; all this without money.
And when I think of it I often say in my
heart why go crazy because money is not
more plentiful. No, let us have more farms
and learn how to take proper care of them,
for all men are not farmers, oh no, some
men will raise a greater crop of weeds than
anything else. Such persons will do well
to raise stock, or learn a trade, then they
can earn money and pay the farmer for
his provisions if this suits them best. Yes
my uncles did this and I think they worked
more hours than when they lived on the
farm and were obliged to be so diligent and
faithful.
	How vividly do I call to mind the joy
and satisfaction of the farm, the home of
my childhood, although 77 years have
elapsed since that time, the time my grand-
father died after a lingering illness. Then
his sons felt the weight and burthen of
these cares, and thought it preferable to
enjoy a city life, and prefered to learn a
trade that they could handle money and
have a change. This they did; one chose
to be a carpenter, another a blacksmith,
and the youngest a coppersmith, and each
looked after their mother’s interest. This
they did, yet how soon they found how
slippery money was. It took all they
could earn to get food and clothing, with
other necessaries to make life comfortable,
and to their astonishment the money went
before they were aware of it, so it seems
in only buying the same comforts that
they had previously made on the farm.
But please remember the machinery to
make farming so light was not invented at
that time, that novelty they did not en-
joy.
	In my youth I could hardly see the use
of gold and silver, except for spoons or a
teapot or pitcher. or some furnishing for
the table. Oh no, to the farmer iron is
preferable for the same, the hammer and
the nails, as spikes must be of iron, and all
the implements he uses on the farm are to
a great extent made of iron you know.
Now I would ask if gold and silver were
not a circulating medium to exchange for
other commodoties, would it be of any
more worth than the rocks we pave the
streets with? I think not, for we read that
the time is coming when the Holy City
will be paved with gold. But at this time
it is valuable for a circulating medium; let us
use it in wisdom, remembering the words
of our God and Savior who said, if you are
not faithful to the Mammon of un-
righteousness, who will commit unto your


trust the true riches. I think this is food
for thought, is it not?
						M. E. K.


