the departed Apostle.
	The venerable President of the Church,
Wilford Woodruff, who spoke next, opened
his discourse with the words “Blessed are
the dead which die in the Lord from hence-
forth; yea, saith the Spirit, that they may
rest from their labors, and their works do
follow them.” His voice was clear and
yet one detected the tone of inward grief in
the intonation. He spoke reverently and
tenderly of the father, President George Q.
Cannon, and affectionately of the wives and
children and of the principle through and
by which he had received them, and ex-
horted them to be faithful and resigned,
and closed his remarks after occupying
about fifteen minutes in speaking sympa-
thetically and blessing them all and said:
“I hope and trust we may all pursue that
course that we may be justified and prepared
to pass to the other side of the vail as he
has done; God grant it for Christ’s sake,
Amen.”
	Brother R. C. Easton the famous tenor,
then sang to the organ accompaniment by
Prof. Daynes, that favorite invocation by
our beloved sister and poet, Eliza R. Snow,
“O my Father.”
	President Jos. F. Smith though deeply
affected delivered an eloquent discourse
enumerating the many arduous labors,
and characteristic virtues of the deceased,
and appealed to the congregation to follow
his righteous example and labor as diligent-
ly in the cause of Christ as he had done.
He read a portion of a Revelation from the
Doctrine and Covenants given through
Joseph Smith, the prophet, to the people of
the world in this dispensation, which com-
mences with, 
	“Behold mine house is a house of order, saith
the Lord God, and not a house of confusion.”
“Will I accept of an offering, saith the Lord,
that is not made in my name!” “Or will I re-
ceive at your hands that which I have not ap-
pointed!”

[Column 2]
	After President Smith finished his ser-
mon which occupied the remainder of the
afternoon, Horace Ensign and the choir
sang the Anthem.
		“When the soul is sad and weary,
		Seek relief in prayer.”
	The funeral procession was in charge of
a special Committee, General R. W. Young
being Marshal. Held’s band in neat uni-
forms were at the head of the column, and
carriages containing the Authorities of the 
Church, including Presidents Woodruff
and Smith and the Apostles, first, then the 
hearse; next the families; a beautiful sight
were the children in the large Drag, Utah,
all in white;—the procession was over a
mile in length and the streets were lined on
both sides the entire distance to the grave-
yard with people. The cemetery was also
packed with those who were anxious to
show their love and respect for one so high-
ly esteemed. When the casket had been
lowered, a quartette led by H. G. Whitney
sang
		“Rest, rest for the weary soul.”
	Elder F. M. Lyman offered the dedi-
catory prayer—and the grave of the depart-
ed was covered and literally embowered in
flowers. Elder H. J. Grant extended the
thanks of the family to all who had assisted
in their hour of sorrowing bereavement.
	May the consolation of the Holy Spirit be
and abide with those who mourn, and
above all may they seek to reconcile them-
selves to the rulings of an All Wise Provi-
dence, and strive to do the work he has left
unfinished inasmuch as it is possible, rely-
ing upon Him who sees even the sparrows
fall, and who has promised never to leave
or forsake those who put their trust in Him.


