					MARA WANGAGARD.

	DIED at her home in Manti, April 22, 1896,
Sister Ann Cook Parsons. Sister Parsons was
born June 1, I823, at Stanford Bridge, Shrop-
shire, England. She was married to Henry
Parsons May 3, 1849, received the Gospel in 1850.
Emigrated to America in 1853, arrived at New
Orleans after a voyage of six weeks, ascended
the Mississippi to Koekuk intending to
continue their journey to Zion, but Sister Parsons
was attacked by rheumatism which so far dis-
abled her that she was unable to travel, conse-
quently she and her husband located at Koekuk,
where they remained until the Spring of 1862,
when they once more took up their line of march
toward the setting sun, traveling with an ox
team and making the entire trip from Koekuk to
Manti in thirteen weeks.
	Sister Parsons was the mother of ten children,
only one of whom survives her, seven having
died in infancy. Her only son was killed some
years ago by a fall from his horse, and on the
death of her eldest daughter some eleven years
ago who left a large family, she adopted the
baby upon whom she bestowed a mother’s teuder
care up to the time of her decease.
	Sister Parsons was a woman of sterling integ-
rity and possessed a deep and abiding faith in the
Gospel for which she had left home and kind-
red.
	She was also generous and benevolent in dispo-
sition, and was ever ready to respond to every
call for means to aid in the spread of the Gos-
pel. She also donated liberally to the Temple
and the Relief Society of which she was a faithful
and efficient teacher for many years.
	In her death the poor and unfortunate have
lost a liberal and sympathetic friend, her hus-
band a faithful and self-sacrificing wife, and her
surviving daughter, and her motherless grand-
children a wise and loving counselor. She was
unassuming and unostentatious in manner and
disposition, fully carrying out the scriptural injunc-
tion‘‘Let not thy right hand know what thy left 
hand doeth.”
During the later years of her life she was a
great sufferer from asthma, although the imme-
diate cause of her death was heart failure.
	She has gone to receive her reward for her
faithfulness in a long and well spent life,
chastened by affliction and glorified by kindly
deeds. Of her it can truthfully be said “Her
works do follow her.”,
May she rest in peace. 		A. L. C.


