IN MEMORIAM.
	To the memory of our beloved president, Karen
P. Hanson, who departed this life May 12, 1896,
bom Feb. 3, 1825, in Albert Denmark, baptized
by Brother James Hanson. March 9, 1853, mar-
ried to Peter Hanson April 24, 1853. She left
her native land 1854. While crossing the plains
she buried her husband and two children, one an
infant a few days old.
	In 1856 she was married to James Hanson in
Salt Lake City. At the time of the move came
to Spanish Fork, and was called to be a counselor
in the first organization of the Relief Society in
the 4th Ward of Spanish Fork, 1858, until 1875,
when the several branches were merged into one
Society, she was chosen presiding teacher, and
was ever faithful and at her post for fourteen
years. When the Society was again divided into
four wards in 1891, she was chosen President
of the 4th Ward Association, which office she
held until the time of her death. She was a
faithful Saint and mother in Israel in word and
in very deed; no sacrifice was too great for her to
make for the Gospel’s sake. She had six child-
ren by her second marriage, four of whom survive
her, two sons and two daughters and twenty-one
grandchildren. Sister Hanson with Brother Han-
son honored the principle of celestial marriage in a
patriarchal family with love and devotion; with
humble dignity and honor to herself. She was a
noble representative and exponent of the princi-
ple.
	Six of Brother Hanson’s sons acted as pall
bearers.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS, Sister Hanson our beloved Presi-
dent has been called from our midst to a brighter
and more holy sphere,
	RESOLVED, That we recognize in her death the
loss of a faithful and energetic president, a friend
to the needy and comforter in the hour of trouble,
a devoted wife and mother and faithful Saint.
	RESOLVED, That we esteem her labors and de-
votion to the interests of Zion, as worthy the
emulation of every member of our Society.
	RESOLVED, That we condole with the bereaved
husband and children, and extend to them our
heartfelt sympathy in the loss of a loving wife
and mother, and sincere friend.
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be inserted
in our records, and a copy sent to the bereaved
family, and a copy to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.
MARY BAXTER			} President.
MARTHA NELSON, 		}
MARY S. CHRISTISON 	} Committee.


MRS. LYLE M. STANSBURY, of Denver,
Col., and Mrs. Helen M. Gougar, of Lafay-
ette, Ind., were among the speakers at the
National Silver Convention at St. Louis.
It is reported that Mrs W. G. White of
Durango, Col., was in attendance as a
delegate-at-large from that State. Mrs.
Gougar proposed to organize a Woman’s
Silver League. Ex.
	THE managers of the Centennial at
Cleveland, O., set July 28, apart for wo-
men, who began their program at nine
o’clock in the Armory. “Philanthropy”
was the topic discussed at ten o’clock.
Among the speakers was Mrs. M. Schwab,
representing the national council of
Jewish women. At eleven o’clock “House-
hold Economies” was the topic; Mrs. Helen
Campbell was the principal speaker. One
o’clock was club hour, and many women
prominent in women’s clubs, made short
speeches. At 12.30 Mrs. May Wright
Sewall discussed the domestic effects of the
higher education of women. Women active
in club and philanthropic work from all
parts of the country were there, and the
gathering was a notable one.	Ex.
	REV. ANNA H. Shaw delivered a lec-
ture on a recent Saturday night at Los
Angeles, the proceeds of which are to be
added to the fund for the relief of Mrs.
Phoebe Couzins. The collection netted
$1100.


THE Deceased Wife’s Sister Bill has pass-
ed at last, and an Englishman may, if he
and she wish, marry the sister of his dead
wife—often a natural and suitable thing to
do. To Americans the danger of the wife’s
dying by slow poison that this end might
be obtained, has always seemed absurdly,
remote.
	Since the news of the passage of this
bill, it has been stated that the bill has
not yet passed the House of Commons,


