LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
		Tuesday, Nov. 19, 1895.
	WE left Genoa by mid-day train, and
continuing along the Mediterranean Coast,
still found the scenery imposing. We
passed Chiavari, inclosed by cultivated
hills. It has several old towers, and in the
environs many handsome Villas. Our
guide pointed out the Anchovy fishery.
	We passed the renowned winter resort,
Spezzia, the largest Military seaport in 
Italy. Its ship yard is one of the largest in 
Europe.
	We saw the beautiful Carrara Mountains
in the Appennines, the quarries have been
worked for more than two thousand years.
It is said they were discovered by a herds-
man, and that these quarries furnished the
marble for Caesar’s Palaces.
	At six o’clock we arrived at Pisa. As we
neared the station we could see grouped to-
gether in one corner of the town, the
Cathedral. Baptistry and Leaning Tower.
Taking the diligence we drove to the
Grand Hotel, which was very clean and nice.
We are now away from rose embowered
hotels. This hotel entertains King Hum-
bert when he comes to Pisa. The host
showed us the apartments of the king;
they were very elegant. Our dinner was
excellent, the cooking was delicious.
	Looking from my window on the op-


posite side of the river, was an exqusite 
little marble Morgue. It was built for a
church, and then used for that purpose; the
first time in a strange city I ever saw one
of those places without a shudder. The
Arno reminded me more of one of the large
canals seen at Amsterdam, but an English
lady said to me "you should have seen the
river last week during the rains when it
was full to the brim, and seemed as if it
would tear everything before it.” The
river divides the city into two nearly
equal parts; the quays which run along the
banks are spacious, there are four bridges,
one is of marble.
NOV. 20. After breakfast we drove to
the Cathedral built of marble, which with
the Baptistry and Leaning Tower, is said
to be the finest specimen that exists of the
style called by Italians the Gotico Moresco.
The Cathedral was begun in 1063, conse-
crated in 1118. In 1560 it was nearly de-
stroyed by fire, except the choir, but was
restored. It is 311 feet long, 106 feet wide,
and the nave is 109 feet high. The facade
is magnificent, the interior is exqusite
in finish and very imposing. The bronze doors
were put up in 1602—after the fire, but
one of the earlier ones is to be seen in the
South Aisle. The great bronze lamp which
gave Galileo the idea of the pendulum,
hangs in the nave. We watched it and
could see it swing, but only by looking at
some object near it; then it was very
perceptible. The statues and paintings are
fine. The most remarkable pictures are,
Andrea del Sarto ‘‘St. Cecilia” ‘‘St. Peter”
and ‘‘St. Agnes.” There were two exqui-
site Madonnas, but I could not learn by
whom. The campanile or belfry, is the
most curious, a cylindrical tower of 178
feet in height, graceful in proportions and
constructed of successive rows of marble
pillars, remarkable for its inclination,
thirteen feet out of the perpiudicular,
from whence the name, Leaning Tower,
and also why it is called one of the
seven wonders of the world. The Tower
has a  peal of seven bells, the heaviest
weighing six tons.
	The Baptistry, completed in 1278, is
about 100 feet in diameter, and the height
of the dome 190 feet. The pulpit, the
masterpiece of Nicola Pesano’ (1260) and
the fount, quite as beautiful, would pay
you for the illness of the voyage, just to see
them. A priest gave us the wonderful
echo; first pianissimo, then in rich full
tones; it answered in the same rich tones.
	The Campo Santo, completed in 1283, is
a large oblong building or corridor, enclos-
ing the ‘‘holy ground” which contains
many shiploads of earth brought from
Mount Calvary. The funeral mounments,
sarcophagi and Greek and Roman Anti-
quities are very curious. One picture
represents the “Last Judgment”. It
would fill your soul with horror. One of
the party remarked “were I obliged to see
that every day I would live a pure life, for
I never wish to go there.” As we left the
buildings a man took our attention with a
cute, tiny, brown dog, Marengo, he said
he was named, after the village of Sardinia.
It stands on the borders of a great plain
where, on the 14th of June 1800, Bonaparte
defeated the Austrians under General
Melas. Doggie was bought by a member
of our party.
	The square of the University contains
marble buildings. The University is'the
oldest in Italy, and has a library, a botani-
cal garden, a cabinet of natural history, and
au observatory.
	Pisa is of great antiquity, having been
one of the twelve towns of Etruria, and
afterwards augmented by a colony from
Rome.
	After a substantial lunch we took the
train for Rome. The cars differ from those
of France, they are not the long cars with
a passage down one side, they are divided
into compartments with a door connecting
the two, a tiny bell between, and leading
into the next compartment.
	We had views on our right of the Medi-
terranean, it being clear after leaving
Cecina, a view of the Island ot Elba. The
train was packed. We had dinner on the
train between stations, one hour for meals,
the train stopped, we left our car, ran to
the diner next the engine, the meal was
excellent, we stopped, ran back to our car,
others went to the diner; it was all novel
and amusing.
	About midnight we arrive at Rome
“The Eternal City.” We were thankful
we had a manager and he attended to the
Custom Officers. Arrangements were
made for our stay at Hotel d’ Angleterre
de’ Paris, among the most comfortable in
the city. Our rooms were well aired, and
much fatigued we retired, to dream of the
beautiful fountain that met our gaze just
after leaving the station.
	Nov. 21, 1896.—In Rome. Our break-
fast the inevitable rolls and coffee, but
good. Carriages were ordered, we drove
along the Tiber, passed the Angel Bridge,
a bridge of the Emp. Hadrian, Castle St.
Angels, or tomb of Hadrian, the most im-
posing mansoleum  in Rome, begun by
Uadrian, completed by his successor, A.
D. 139. The bridge is the approach to the
tomb; it is wholly ancient except the para-
pets,—to St. Peters Church, we left the
carriages at the fountain in the space in
front of the Church. It is a large area of
oval form surrounded with a magnificent
colonnade, the work of Berinrei. Viewing
the building from the outside we then
entered the Church, which stands on the
site of the circus of Nero, where many
Christians were martyred, and where St.
Peter is said to have been buried after his
crucifixion.
	The crypt is all that remains of the early
basilica. The present edifice was begun in
1506, by Julius II, from designs by Bram-
ante. The work went on with various
changes and under several architects, until
Paul III, being “inspired by God” entrust-
ed it to Michael Angelo. The Church was
dedicated by Urban III, in 1626, the colon-
nade added by Alexander VII in 1667, and
the sacristy by Pius VI, in 1780. The
main building cost fifty million dollars; the
work was so heavy that Julius II and Leo
X, resorted to the sale of indulgences to
raise the money; this led to the Reforma-
tion. Go and see it, nothing can give you
an idea of its vastness, grandeur and plain
splendor; the arts of architecture, sculpture
and painting are in the highest perfection.
The most celebrated artists, Bramante,
Raphael, Vignola, Maderno, Bernni and
Michael Angelo, all worked upon it. The
patriarchal chair is a throne elevated to the
height of 70 feet. The high altar has be-
low it St. Peter’s tomb, above it is a can-
opy of brass towering to a height of 132
feet, before the door to the tomb is a lamp
always lighted. On the floor was marked
the length of all the large Cathedrals in
the world; this was much larger. In one
of the chapels was a painting of St. Paul
baptising his jailors. 
	Leaving the Church we crossed the An-
gel Bridge, passed the Fountain of Trevi,
the legend is “If you drink of the waters of
Trevi, it will ensure you a return to Rome”
to the hotel for lunch. Then a drive upon
the Janiculum Hill, where the gardens are
fine, and there is a splended view of Rome,
built upon seven hills, situated chiefly on
the left bank of the Tiber. The most regu-
larly built is near the northern gate Parte
del Popolo, and the quarter of Bargo. The
squares are numerous but small, and adorn-
ed with fountains, obelisks and monuments.
We drove on the Flaminian Way, the
northern road which led from Ancient
Rome through the gate of Paolo. Near
the gate is the tomb of Caius Cestius, en-
closed in the wall of Aurelian. It is a
brick pyramid cased with marble, 161 feet
high, with a base of 98 feet. In the Prot-
estant cemetery at its foot, is the grave of
Keats, and the tomb which contains the
heart of Shelley. The cypress trees are
very old. As we drove along by the old
walls of Rome, the beggar boys turned
cartwheels, for sue’s they were bright-eyed
laughing boys, attractive in spite of dirt
and rags, looking like Murillo’s Beggar
Boys. We reached the Basilica of St.
Paul, “S. Paolo fuori le Mura”, a magnifi-
cent church which marks the spot where
the Apostle is believed to have been
buried. It contains Mosaics of the 13th
Century; the interior is supported by eighty
granite columns. We judged it one of the
most beautiful churches we had seen. Re-
turning we visited the Mammertine prison,
where St, Peter was liberated by the an-
gel.
	It was now dark, and we returned to
the hotel for dinner.
KIM.


