				ZINA HYDE, Sec.

	SYNOPSIS of Minutes of Semi-Monthly
Meeting held Saturday, June 23, 1896,
President M. I. Horne presiding. Opened
by singing "There may all the faithful be”
prayer by Counselor E. Webb, singing "O
awake my slumbering minstrel,” Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved.
President Horne spoke of the Primary Con[-]

[Column 3]
ference convening that day, and being the
cause of the secretary’s absence; loved to
listen to the children, thought it very im-
portant that mothers should see that the
children attended the Primary, for if they
were not properly taught parents would be
under condemnation. Mothers should
consider this training of the children their
chief duty, sow good seed in their young
minds, for what they learned in childhood
would never be forgotten; for herself she
felt an interest in every thing that tended
to elevate and bless woman and humanity.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball thought the
time was precious. President Brigham
Young said he always felt a timidity in
arising to his feet to speak, he thought
why this was so, was that he saw a gleam
of the Deity in the eye of each one before
him. Heber C. Kimball always spoke on
the subject most on his mind, and in this
respect she was like him; Genealogy was
uppermost on her mind, she felt to speak
upon that, and to urge the necessity of
that work; made some excellent sugges-
tions. Sister Elmina S. Taylor, spoke of
her recent visit to the Conference at Tooele;
while there the Bishop said he thought
there was nothing that went ahead of the
Relief Society, and she then dwelt upon the
great good that had been accomplished
through that organization; thought we
should not be chary of kind words and little
kind deeds, they cost so little, but mean so
much; every heart knows its own sorrow,
and God knows us so well that He gave us
strength to bear the burdens put upon us.
Exhorted the sisters to greater faithfulness
and diligence. A sister related how her
grandson had been healed by the prayers
offered in that place at a previous meeting;
felt to thank God for His goodness. Sister
Rawlings, Aird, Barrow and other sisters
bore precious testimonies and gave wise
counsel. Counselor E. J. Stevenson spoke
of her recent visit to Sanpete Stake in
company with Sister Zina D. H. Young,
and the grand time they had, how the
Spirit of the Lord was poured out in rich
abundance. Sister Mary Ann Hyde
though eighty years of age, presided at the
Conference with the dignity of a queen.
Sister Hyde’s 80th birthday was publicly
celebrated by the people in a grand feast of
both temporal and spiritual things. She
was presented with a very handsome gold
watch and chain, as a token of their love and
respect for her, and in appreciation of her
labors in that County. Sister Stevenson
spoke feelingly and gratefully of the great
kindness shown them by Presidents Peter-
son, Mc’Allister and Maiben; these brethren
did everything in their power to make the
Conference a success and to help the sisters;
said it was an occasion long to be remem-
bered.
	Sisters Brown and Nunn, also Sister
Julia C. Howe spoke beautifully of the
work and urged redoubled efforts on behalf
of the children of Zion; were anxious we
should progress and prove faithful. Sisters
Hannah Conklin and Mary Sawyer Snow
bore their testimony of the Gospel and
testified to the goodness of God to them.
President Horne in a few appropriate
remarks closed the meeting and gave
notice of the Quarterly Conference of the
sisters, on June 27, which would be ob-
served as a memorial day in remembrance of
the martyrdom of the Prophet and Patri-
arch, Joseph and Hyrum Smith. Singing
“The time is far spent”, benediction by
Lydia D. Alder.		Zina Hyde, Sec.


SYNOPSIS of Semi-Monthly Meeting held
Saturday, July 11, 1896, Counselor E. J.
Stevenson presiding. Singing “Where the
voice of friendship’s heard” prayer by Julia
C. Howe, singing “Welcome” etc. Min-
utes of previous meeting read and accepted.
Sister Stevenson regretted the absence of
the beloved President and spoke encourag-
ingly to those present.
	Counselor B. W. Smith spoke of her
recent visit to Nephi, where she attended
the Sisters Conference, and mentioned the
arrival of Sister Horne; made excellent
suggestions to the sisters. Singing “We
thank Thee O God.”
	Counselor E. Webb felt this was a time
when we should feel very humble and live
near the Lord and put our trust in God
continually. Sister Rawlings made a few
appropriate remarks, expressing her faith
and joy in the Gospel.
	Sister M. W. Wilcox and Sister M.
Francis, Sister Plant, Sister Waterfall and
Sister Cornell, each bore testimony to the
truth and related some experiences; touched
upon many good subjects calculated to edify
and stimulate to good works. Sister Lucy
B. Young testified to answers to prayers,
felt to prophesy of Sister Zina’s great work
when she was called to preside over the
Relief Society. She also spoke in the gift
of tongues and interpreted it herself.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder exhorted those
who were in great sorrow to cast their bur-
dens upon the Lord, it was His way of
bringing them to Him. Felt the time
would soon come when we should know
why these things were; alluded to many
prophecies that had been made by Brigham
Young which were being fulfilled now
	President Horne explained why she was
late, she was detained by sickness; alluded
to some startling prophecies by Apostle
Parley P. Pratt in regard to Jackson
County; also spoke very impressively upon
charity, and said Satan had no power over
our thoughts but he had over our words;
a fault-finding spirit was not a happy one.
Mentioned the Relief Society excursion to
Saltair and hoped it would be a success.
Prayed that the Spirit of the Gospel might
be and abide with us. Singing Doxology, 
benediction by Counselor Clara Cannon.
