PRIMARY STAKE FAIR OF SEVIER.
	According to appointments, Stake Pri-
mary President, Louisana Heppler, with
her counselors, and Secretary Mary Rick-
enbach, started to visit the Primary Fairs
in the county. On the 1st. of June they
should have held one for Sigurd and Vir-
million, but on account of sickness could
not hold one. On the 2nd of June, we left
our homes and arrived in Aurora at 10
o’clock a. m. After opening the Fair, we
viewed the things, saw that a great deal of
interest had been taken by the children,
especially by the boys in making tables,
rakes, barrows etc. We held a meeting in
the afternoon, and attended a Primary
concert at night. Next morning we went
to Salina and attended the Fair in the fore-
noon, and in looking over the things found
that both girls and boys had done some
very neat work. At 2 o’clock we held a
meeting and spoke for some time to a
houseful of children, and also had the
pleasure of attending a concert at night and
enjoyed ourselves very much.
	After a short ride from Salina, we
arrived at Redmond and were surprised
when we entered the house and saw how
well everything was arranged. After ex-
amining the things, we could not help but
think the children had done well, every-
thing being so neat. Parents and children
gathered at 2 p.m. in the meeting house
and we held a meeting, and enjoyed our-
selves very much. They also gave, as in
other places, a concert at night.
	A long and dreary ride through the dust
and sun, brought us to Richfield on the
5th. We were greatly disappointed in
not seeing more of an interest taken, but
felt like giving credit to all those who made
something. A program was prepared for
the afternoon meeting, and the children
had learned their parts well, which gave
Sister Heppler much joy in seeing that they
like others were interested. We returned
home that evening feeling well.
	We rested three days and then took a
long dreary ride over the dugways and
arrived in Monroe at 10;30 on the 9th of

[Column 3]
June. We attended the Fair in the fore-
noon. After looking at the things, we
saw that the girls were interested, one girl
having fourteen articles; but we were great-
ly disappointed in not finding one thing
made by the boys. We held a meeting in
the afternoon, and were pleased with the way
thechildren rendered their parts. Next day
we met with the Joseph Primary. They
also had a good Fair for the few things pre-
pared. In the afternoon we held a meet-
ing, and attended a concert at night. A
short ride from Joseph found us in Elsi-
nore. We were somewhat disappointed in
not seeing more of an interest taken by the
parents and children. At 2 p. m. we held
a meeting, and enjoyed ourselves very
much; then we partook of a picnic that the
children had brought.
	On the 12th of June we met with the
nverury and Annabella Ward’s Fair, and
were pleased to see so much interest taken
by the children in making something for
the Fair and in taking their part in the meet-
ing. We attended a Primary concert at
night. We again returned home, and on
Tuesday went to a Fair in Glenwood, and
credit is surely due to both parents and
children in making such a display of fancy
work, cooking and carpenter work. We
held a meeting in the afternoon and attend-
ed a conceit at night. After a day’s long
and tiresome ride, we arrived in Koosharem,
and next day we met with the Burrville
and Koosharem Primaries, and were pleased
with the Fair, and had a good time during
our meeting. We went to a concert at
night. Driving over dugways and through
dust, at 2 p. m. we arrived in Wallsville,
and were pleased to see that, though being
the smallest place, it had the best Fair.
We then returned home, feeling well paid
for our trip in seeing the parents and child-
ren taking so much interest.
