HOSPITAL.

    IT was a  very  unpretentious  old  adobe
building, but it was there my life was saved
on March 18th, 1891.
    Through the kindness of the Gunnison
R. S., to whose credit some donations in
years past had been placed, I was sent
there for treatment.
	Drs. J. M. Benedict  and S. B. Young
performed an operation which relieved me
of two large ovarian tumors,  weighing 35
pounds; and so skillfully did they do their
work that I not only did not feel the oper-
ation in the least, but in ten days I was up
and improved right along; and through the
excellent nursing and diet I received there,
in 25 days after the operation I was able to


walk out of that, to me, so memorable
place.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt was resident phy-
sician at this time and was very able and
kind to the sick. The nurses and attend-
ants were both cheerful and helpful. I
remember there was a young brother there
his name was George Blanton or Blan-
thorne. He would sing for and pray with
the sick, as the case might be, and was of-
ten called to the bedside of the sick to
administer to them.
	It is to be hoped that in some future day
we will have another Deseret Hospital, or
some such institution where the same spirit
reigns, established again.
	And I feel that I must give Drs. Bene-
dict and Young, this all too tardy acknow-
ledgement. They knew, for I had told
them, that I had nothing to pay them with.
But that made no difference to those two
noble men. They treated me with as much
delicacy and consideration as if they had
been prepaid a royal sum.
	The hand of Dr. Benedict may tremble
now—but that same trembling hand has
done much to bless the poor as well as
those who were able to pay.
	Once of my boys was struck in the
face by a horse, receiving a large ugly
wound. He was taken in the patrol
wagon to one of the large hospitals in Salt
Lake City. He lay there for many hours
without anything being done for him, as
they did not know who was going to pay
for it. After he regained consciousness he
called for Dr. Benedict, who took his case
in hand and charged nothing. The same
boy was stricken down with typhoid fever,
and the same kind Dr. Benedict went every
day in his own conveyance to 12th East,
until he (to use the Dr’s. term) “pulled
him through. ” But he charged nothing
for it.
	I have heard the names of Drs. Bene-
dict and Young mentioned in connection
with such other deeds of unselfishness and
benevolence, which none but God can fit-
tingly reward. And they know that such
reward is sure.
	And our sweet gentle Dr. Ellis R. Shipp.
I shall never forget her kindness to me in
my distress. To those who may be afflict-
ed as I was, let me say, do not hesitate to
call in surgical help. For although we
have no Deseret Hospital, and we may
have very few Benedicts and Youngs
yet we have able and efficient physicians in
all our cities and towns, who are able if
called upon in time, to save a life, which
in my case was very near too late.
			THOMINE EINARSON.
Gunnison, July 27, 1896.


