S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	MINUTES of Meeting held in the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT office, June 16, 1896.
Song ‘‘The Reason Why.” Regular pro-
gram defered for one month and Miss
Elliott invited to address the ladies. She
read extracts from letters received from
Clara Barton, bearing the Post mark of
Constantinople, in which she tells of her
work among the people who are suffering
from smallpox, dysentery and plague.
Tells of tools and grain being carried into
the interior the grain being planted and
watered until it is growing before leaving
the field, and of English doctors being sent
for to take the place of ignorant and super-
stitious ones to alleviate the pain and suf-
fering of the afflicted. She told the beauti-
ful story of the origin of the Order of the
Red Cross, and the great work done by the
members, and thinks that the work should
be in the hands of the government, al-
though every city responds to the call of
charity when any calamity befalls the
country. The Red Cross flag is the only
hospital flag known. It is the Swiss flag
reversed, the Swiss flag being a white
cross on a red back-ground, and the hos-
pital flag, a red cross on a white ground;
said that in 1892 America sent a ship-load
of grain to Russia to be planted for the
benefit of the famine stricken people. She
spoke of the great and thoroughly organiz-
ed work done by Miss Barton, and the
great good that she had done and is doing
to-day. Dr. Ferguson spoke of the work
that she and other women are doing in
Salt Lake City in organizing a Woman’s
League, where working women can be in-
structed in many ways and greatly benefit.
ed, and the dignity of labor upheld. A
letter written to the Governor of Utah
from a Boise paper, asking support from
the women of Utah was read and discussed,
after which Emily S. Richards gave an
address. Elizabeth J. McFarlane spoke
next, said that her great wish was to help -
womankind, and she believed in equai
rights to everybody. Resolved to form a
club called the Civic Club. Mrs. Fewson
Smith kindly offered her home for the next
meeting of the new club. Prayer was
offered by Mary Silver. Meeting ad-
journed for one month.
