WOMAN’S HOME.

	THE formal opening of the Industrial
Farm Colony for Inebriate Women, took
place at Duxhurst, Surrey, England, July
6th. Her Royal Highness, Princess Mary
Duchess of Teck, laid the foundation stones
for three cottages, there being already six
cottages, a large main building, a church,
a hospital and a manor house for ladies of
quality. Purses of money from White
Ribbon women and others in all parts of
England were presented to her Royal
Highness in aid of the Institution. Prayer
was offered by the Hon. the Dean of Here-
ford. Lady Henry Somerset gave an ad-
dress of welcome. The Park sisters, the
well known cornet quartette from New
York, a band and a choir of boys furnished
the music.
	This home was founded by the British
Woman’s Temperance Association led by
Lady Henry Somerset, and is the first
attempt to provide for inebriate women, the
ameliorative surroundings of country air and
out door occupations in homes rather then
corrective institutions.
	The following guests were entertained at
luncheon at Reigate Priory, with Princess
Mary. The Duchess of Teck, the Duchess of
St. Albans; Adeline, Duchess of Bedford;
Lily, Duchess of Marlborough; Lord Will-
am Beresford; Lady Katherine and Mr.
Somers Somerset; Lady Louise Loder;
Lady Edward Cavendish; Lady Patersen;
Lady Eva and Mr. Dugdale; Lady Barnes;
Lady Hope and Mr. Denny; Lady Hylton;
Sir Wilfred and Lady Lawson; the Dean of
Hereford; Hon. Mrs. Leigh; Sir Algernon 
West; Mrs. Eva McClaren; Miss Frances
Willard; Mrs. and Miss Wilberforce; Miss
Tufnall, Lady in Waiting; Hon. A. Hood;
Hon. Mr. Cubitt H. P.; Richard Harding
Davis, Esq.
	THE appointment of H. R. H. Princess
Beatrice, to be Governor of the Isle of
Wight, in successon to the late Prince
Henry of Battenberg, is not only a step
popular to the inhabitants of the Island,
but one which carries on the best traditions
of English history, when women succeeded
to posts of honor and responsibility, irre-
spective of prejudice, where hereditary
right and circumstances indicated them, as
fitting persons.				Ex.


