CAPTAIN CURLING.
COME Mormons, and sing; let the deep waters
	ring,
All praise to our guide on the ocean;
Pray for him to have rest when Thy people are
	blest,
To have part in the first resurrection.
All hail to the captain, for he is our chieftain,
In crossing the mighty blue sea;
No danger we fear while onward we steer,
Can a captain be kinder than he?
United we pray to see the glad day,
Roll on when the righteous are blest,
Long live Captain Curling, his canvas unfurling,
In perils may God give him rest.
Now we bid you adieu, with all the ship’s crew,
Glad to meet you again in the West.
					ELIZABETH LANE.
	We landed in Boston, Mass., the 23rd of
May, 1856, and went straight to the cars
and started for the Mormon camp at Iowa,
there to make ready for our journey of 1300
miles with hand carts. Captain Edward
Bunker was appointed to conduct us
through. We started on our way West
June 24, and arrived safe at Florence, and
stopped there two weeks, and left for the
plains July 30. I had always been iso-
lated from the Church, so that I had not one
particular friend; I seemed to travel all
alone. I was allowed to bring 15 pounds
of baggage; this was put on the cart with
a man and his wife. This man had a wood-
en leg, his name was Thomas Evans, and
he lives at Spanish Fork. He soon gave
out in the deep sands of Nebraska, and his
wife and myself took the cart all the way to
Laramie. When the man got better, I
became lame while we were traveling in
the Black hills, I had rheumatism in my
ankles and had to give up pulling the cart.
I made a friend of one of the teamsters,
and he put a small bundle on the wagon
for me, after Captain Bunker had refused
to do so, and then I was free to walk alone.
There was one man in the camp I shall
always remember with gratitude, his name
is John Cousins, he lives at Bear Lake.
He has carried me on his back through
many rivers, and when Captain Bunker
put me out of the wagon at Laramie River,
he picked me up and carried me through
the water.
	We finally came to Green River, and I
was behind the camp; there was no one in
sight and it was near sundown. I sat down
and thought this is the last. After a while
began to ask myself what brought you
here? I called myself a coward. So I got
up and asked the Lord to help me, and pre-
pared to wade the river; and the Lord did

[Column 2]
help me, and I got safe to the camp just as
they were preparing to come after me.
But the next morning I could not stand;
I had been chilled through. Brother
David Grant, then the Captain of our one
hundred, was sent for and had me lifted in-
to one of the wagons for the forenoon, and
gave orders to the teamster that I should
wade no more rivers, and the order was
obeyed.
	We arrived in Salt Lake City, Oct. 2,
and camped on what is now the University
Square, where we partook of a good supper
after a fast of thirty hours. We were com-
manded to eat our last rations beyond the
big mountain at noon the day before, as
they expected provisions at the camping
place that night, but were disappointed, and
we had walked fifteen miles that day with-
out food.
	I had now reached Salt Lake City, the
goal of my ambition; but no one came to
greet me as they did others, and take them
to their homes. I knew the young woman
that brought the Gospel to me was in the
City and married, but I knew not where to
find her, and she was searching for me with
a wrong name as I had traveled in my
maiden name of Lane, so she missed find-
ing me. I made the camp my home until
after Conference, and then went to Kays-
ville with some friends. While there I got
the friend’s address whom I was looking
for, so I came back to the city and found
her. She was very glad to meet me, and
offered me a home for the winter; but she
was very much changed, we were not of
the same spirit now; her people and herself
were finding fault with everything, especi-
ally the Church affairs. So I began to
think of making a home for myself, which
was a difficult thing to do in my case as I
did not want another husband in this life if
could possibly help it, though I knew
that marriage was an eternal principle or-
dained of God. I realized the Savior had
said in the resurrection they were not mar-
ried or given in marriage. From this I
understand, that in order to partake of that
eternal principle, the marriage has to be
solemnized in this life. It was the time of
the Reformation, and I had plenty of suit-
ors, among whom were three widowers
with good homes. Each one of them told
me the same thing, if I would marry him
he would not take another wife; but I de-
clined, that was not what I wanted. I had
sacrificed my affections twice, I was now
trying to act upon principle.
	Through Brother David Grant I be-
came acquainted with his father-in-law,
Heman Hyde and his good wife. They
were generally called Father and Mother
Hyde, they were getting to be old people.
They had a nice home on State St. in the
13th Ward In them I found congenial
spirits, I could sit and talk with them
about Mormonism by the hour and not get
weary. Heman Hyde had been a prosper-
ous business man in New York State when
Mormonism came to them, and all his fami-
ly of five children, most of them grown up,
came into the Church. He sold or bartered
away all his fine property, and followed the
Church to Kirtland, thence to Missouri,
and afterwards Nauvoo, and finally to this
valley. By this time their ample fortune
was greatly reduced, but for that I did not
care; I was willing to work and help them
in their declining years; and I consented to
become one of the family, and was sealed to
Brother Hyde as his wife, in the new and
everlasting covenant, on the 6th of Decem-

[Column 3]
ber that same year. I have always been
happy and contented in my last choice, and
so were Brother and Sister Hyde. Mother,
as I always called Sister Hyde, would say,
“Elizabeth it was the Lord brought you
here to comfort me.” We lived together
nearly six years without a jar. I took care
of her for seven months in her last sickness
(with dropsy.) She died in September, 1862.
	I had always been self sustaining, and
while traveling I would often think, what
could I do when I arrived here. I could do
almost anything except washing or weav-
ing. What was my surprise the first week
to find that the Hyde family kept a laundry
and did washing for gentlemen. I said
nothing, but turned to and helped, and soon
mastered the business, and took the lead
and made a success. It was the chief sup-
port of the family as long as Brother
Hyde lived; he was taken sick and died in
June, 1869, at the age of 81 years. He
was a very just man and protected me by
making a will he left me the use and inter-
est of the property as long as I lived. The
Will was probated, and Brother Hyde’s son
Rosel Hyde, with two grandsons, appointed
trustees. They put everything in order
and left it in my charge. I soon realized
that I could not manage the land to make
a living, so I petitioned the Court and
they sold a five acre lot, and helped: me to
build two tennement houses on the city
property, to rent. I managed them and
the rents made me quite comfortable for
twenty years.
	I had always been a member of the
Relief Society; I was now a teacher going
around the blocks in the ward, looking
after the poor and sick, which office I held
until age disabled me for all such labor.
	In the boom of 1889, we sold the old
home and realized a good price. The
trustees put the money to interest for my
benefit, and it brings me a nice income. I
live with one of the grandsons. I have a
room to myself and pay for my board and
attendance. They respect and love me,
anticipate all my wants, and there is noth-
ing too good for “grandma.”
	When I look back on my past life my
trials are nothing when compared with the
prospect of sharing in the reward that is in
store for this great and good people, the
Latter-day Saints, whom the God of heaven
has picked out from among the nations, and
brought to Zion to learn of His ways and
keep His commandments, and make “The
desert blossom as the rose.”
