SANPETE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Relief Society Confer-
ence of the Sanpete Stake of Zion, held
June 5th, 1896, at Manti, President M. A.
P. Hyde presiding. Singing, “Lord we
come before Thee now”, prayer by Pres’t.
John Maiben, singing “Where the voice of
friendship’s heard.” Roll called and min-
utes read and approved.
	Pres’t. M. A. Hyde made a few opening re-
marks. Pres’t. Zina Young thought of the
dear ones (Sisters M. W. Snow and S. A.
Peterson), who had just passed away, that
they would work with even more interest
than before. Since we have become ac-
quainted with the eternal truths, we have
another guarding angel to watch over us.
Spoke of apostacy, and for an example
could take father Marsh with his palsied


[Column 1]
hand, who had said “If any of you want to
apostatize, look at me.” Said she loved to
see the faithful. We have many joys in
the Gospel that take us above earthly sor-
rows; we have great reason to rejoice, being
united with the eternal priesthood of God.
	The vacancy caused through the depart-
ure of the Stake counselors, was then filled.
On motion of Pres’t. Zina Young, Alvira
S. Cox was to act in the vacancy caused by
the death of Minerva W. Snow, and Abbie
Shoemaker was to fill the place of Sarah A.
Peterson.
	Pres’t. John B. Maiben said “we are sub-
ject to change, but we must acknowledge
the hand of God in all things. Let us ex-
ercise those God-like qualities.” Gave
words of consolation to Pres’t. C. Peterson
in his bereavement, said “God remembers
the mission of the faithful, therefore, let us
be comforted. May the spirit of wisdom,
righteousness, of truth, of kindness and good
will rest upon us.”
	Pres’t. M. A. Hyde felt favored with the
presence of Sisters Zina Young and E. J.
Stevenson. Spoke of the great loss
sustained in the death of her counselors,
but it is not pleasing in the sight of God to
mourn.
	The Ephraim North Ward Relief Society
was represented by Pres’t. Sophia Ander-
son, Ephraim South Ward by Pres’t. Ellen
Dorius, Fountain Green by Pres’t. Polly A.
Johnson, Fairview by Pres’t. Eliza Barthol-
omew, and Gunnison by Pres’t. Helena
Madsen.
	Pres’t. C. Peterson felt that the sisters
just called would be as much beloved as
those who had passed away. He requested
the sisters to come and be set apart.
	Sister Aivira Cox was set apart by Pres’t.
John Maiben, and Sister Abbie Shoemaker
by Pres’t. William Y. Reid.
	The resignation of Helen E. Young as
Cor. Stake Secretary was read and accepted
with a vote of thanks. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Hans Jensen.
	Pres’t. Rebecca Wareham of Manti ex-
tended an invitation to the officers and
visitors attending Conference to attend a
banquet in honor of Pres’t. Hyde on her 
80th birthday, where she was presented
with an elegant gold watch and chain.

	AFTERNOON SESSION: Singing by the
choir, prayer by Brother J. F. Allred, sing-
ing. President Hyde returned her thanks and
appreciation for the kindness shown her;
hoped we might be one. Spoke upon the
wheat question, said we must store grain
and take care of it.
	Sister Caroline Simpson represented the
Relief Society of Mt. Pleasant, Pres’t.
Rebecca Wareham represented the North
Ward of Manti, Pres’t. Esther Anderson
the South Ward of Manti, Pres’t. Annie
Hardy, Moroni, Pres’t. Matilda Olsen, May-
field, Pres’t. M. A. Frantzen, Spring City, 
Pres’t. Elizabeth Thompson, Sterling, and
Pres’t. Ann Midgley, of Wales.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson of Salt Lake, said
the association of the Saints was more to
her than any thing else. We should learn
our duty and be humble, for it is those
whom the Lord will bless. We should
cultivate the spirit of cheerfulness and
gentleness; we will not make many mis-
takes if we have the Spirit of the Lord to
direct us. Was pleased to note that the
sisters had read the Doctrine and Covenants
according to instructions. Pres’t. Zina
Young spoke of blessing the sick, said we

[Column 2]
must be wise in our administration in all
holy ordinances.
	Counselor Alvira Ccx asked an interest
in our faith and prayers to assist her in her
great calling. Desired to be worthy of the
respect and esteem of the Saints. Coun-
selor Abbie Shoemaker felt her calling a
great responsibility, but if the Lord would
help her she would round up her shoulders,
and try to do her part
	Pres’t. J. D. T. McCallister (of the
Temple) felt that we were blessed indeed to
be here, to see and enjoy the Society of
“Aunt Zina.” Thought at times great
things were imparted to us for our en-
couragement, and we should be careful
whom we impart them to. We should
read the revelations of God, they are gems
there are things in the Doctrine and Cove-
nants that will lead us to celestial glory.
Thought the spirit of love and forgiveness
was present. God has blessed the honest
toil of this people; he felt humble in his
spirit.
	Sisters Stevenson and Young encouraged
the people in taking the EXPONENT. Sis-
ter M. A. Hyde spoke in tongues and
Sister Zina Young interpreted.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing “Do what is right.” Benediction by
C. Madsen.
