HALF A CENTURY.

	ON Thursday the 2nd of July, the day
being the anniversary of Sister Lydia D.
Alder’s 50th birthday, a few of her many
friends (numbering about 25) wended their
way to her residence about 4 o’clock p. m,
to offer her their sincere congratulations
	The lady, however, was not at home but
spending the afternoon with her son’s
family, but she was notified and soon made
her appearance, when happy greetings and
old time associations were freely indulged
in.
	An autograph album with her name
engraved in gold letters on the cover, was
presented to her, and at her request all pre-
sent wrote their names and sentiments
suitable to the occasion therein. Refresh-
ments with lemonade was then served,
after which a spiritual feast was indulged
in
	By the unanimus vote of the assembly,
our venerable and beloved president, Zina
D. H. Young, was elected chairman and
after singing and prayer President Young
made a few remarks and called upon others
to speak also, prominent among whom was
B. W. Smith, Helen Mar Whitney, Ellen
C. Clawson, Camilla Cobb, Sarah A.
Reece and indeed all present responded to
the call, even Sister Alder’s little nine year
old daughter May. Sister Phelps spoke
beautifully in tongues which was interpret-
ed by Sister Zina Young and enjoyed by
all.
	A very pleasing feature of the program
was the reading of some verses composed
by Sister Alder and suggested by President
Young’s remarks at one of the Sisters Con-
ferences viz. that we should take our bur-
dens to the Lord and leave them there.
The remarks of the speakers all tended to
show how necessary trials are to purify and
perfect us. As Paul of old says, “They
will work out for us a far more exceeding
and eternal weight of glory."
	President Young then laid her hands
upon Sister Alder and gave her a prophetic
blessing, which we all endorsed by a hearty
Amen. Benidection was pronounced by
Sister Rachel Grant.
	Mrs. George D. Alder Jun. rendered
some beautiful pieces on the piano while
social chat was again general for a short
time, when we bade adieu to our hostess
and family about 10 o’clock, all feeling
blest and comforted, at least this was the
experience of the writer.
