ELIZABETH L. HYDE.

[By request of my dear friend and long
time neighbor, the editor of the EXPO-
NENT, I have written a brief sketch of my
long and successful life.]

	I am now in my 86th year; my memory
is good, my mental faculties unimpaired,
but my bodily strength is failing me. My
name is Elizabeth Lane Hyde. My parents
were James L. Lane, and Jane Lane. I
was born in the (County) town of New
Radnor, Radnorshire, England, February
26, 1811. My birth was very humble, my
father being a laboring man; but my par-
ents were honest and industrious people,
and managed to give me as good an educa-
tion as the schools of Radnor afforded in
those days.
	When I was old enough I learned the
dressmaking, and worked in that business
in my native town until I was twenty-six
years of age. During this time I became
acquainted with a very respectable young
man, a farmer’s son in the neighborhood.
We kept company for six years, but cir-
cumstances and my lack of fortune com-
bined to separate us. He married another
young woman but was never happy in his
home life, and died in a few years.
	I mention this circumstance because it
was the reason I remained single to the age
of thirty-five years. I could not remain at
home, so I went to London and worked in
a millinery establishment nearly three
years. I came back home the next week
after Queen Victoria was married, but I
could not settle there again. I had some
friends in another town not far away, so I
went there and commenced business in the
millinery, and soon had a good prospect.
I was always inclined to be religious, and
I soon became a leading member in the Bap-
tist Church and Sunday School.
	In 1846, I was married to a widower,
with two fine boys, whom I loved very
much, and in time I had a son born to me,
but he only lived three months.
	I soon found I had made a mistake in my
marriage. My husband was a drinking
man and he had deceived me; he despised
every religion, and he would sometimes
swear about my going to meeting. Such
is a brief sketch of my life before the true
Gospel of Jesus Christ found me.
	In the fall of 1847, a farmer's daughter
from a distance came to my establishment
to learn the business. She brought some
books with her which I accidentally found.
I was very much alarmed about these
books, on account of the other young girls
under my charge; but she was so good-
natured over it that she soon disarmed me,
and I became much interested myself in
what they contained. I read the Voice of
Warning through, and then every other
Mormon book I could get. It took right
hold of me; I could see truth in every line,
and I durst not trifle with it, let the conse-
quence be what it might. I was clandes-
tinely baptized on the 25th of February,
1848, and the Lord gave me such a know-
ledge of the truth, that I felt able to face
the whole world. Every trial that I have
had to pass through, has strengthened my
faith, and I have been tried in very deed.
As soon as it was known that I had become
a convert to the Mormon faith, my Baptist
friends forsook me, and my husband acted
more like a fiend than a man. I tried to
do my duty; attended to my business and
household affairs. At times I felt above
such petty ways, and sometimes like run-
ing away out of it; but when I stopped to
consider, that seemed folly, so I began to
lay plans. All my means was in my busi-


[Column 1]
ness, so I commenced sending money to
Liverpool as often as I could spare it, until
I had sent enough, to pay for my emigra-
tion to Zion the cheapest possible way.
	In the spring of 1856, I started for Salt
Lake City, on April 19, with a company of
Welsh Saints. I shipped on board a sailing
vessel named the “S. Curling”, in honor of
the captain, who was part owner. Our
president’s name was Captain Dan Jones.
I became acquainted with David Grant and
John Oakley, returning missionaries, and
cooked for them on the passage, which was
a very rough one. While on board I
composed an article for the captain, and
our president presented it to him; he was
very much pleased with it, and paid me
some fine compliments:
ON THE ATLANTIC OCEAN,
MAY, 1856.

