School for the Blind.
	This school will be free to all children
whose sight is too defective to allow of suc-
cessful work in public schools. That the
management of the school may know at an
early date how many children of this class
are likely to attend, it is important that all
parents or guardians of such children com-
municate at once with the Superintendent
who will furnish application blanks, and
any other information needed.
	Persons knowing of blind (or deaf-mute)
children will confer a favor by sending
their addresses to Frank W. Metcalf,
Superintendent, Salt Lake City Utah.
	The State School for the Blind and the
State School for the Deaf and Dumb, have
been amply provided for. The Genera
Government gave each of them 100,000
acres of land. This land when sold will
provide for them a permanent endowment.
The State has given these schools the
buildings and grounds formerly occupied
by the Reform School. [The Reform
School is being moved to a new location.]
These buildings occupy a commanding and
healthful site in the city of Ogden. They
are now being altered and refitted to accom-
modate the needs of the state schools above
mentioned. Teachers of special experience
in this work have been engaged for all
departments. The course of study com-
prises a thorough common school course.
In the department for the deaf it fits pupils
entrance to the National (Gallandet) Col-
lege for the Deaf, Washington D. C. [Two
pupils of the school successfully passed the
college examination in June last.] Besides
the above a thorough course in trade
instruction is given, fitting the pupils on
completing the course to become at once
self-supporting and useful citizens.
	[NOTE.—The Utah School for the Deaf
and Dumb has won all first prizes for man-
ual training at the Territorial Fairs for the
past seven years.]
	Over fifty blind children of school age
were reported in 1890, and the number has
undoubtedly increased since.


THE first woman who has received the
permission of the Minister of Public In-
struction to attend lectures in the University
of Munich, is Miss Ethel Gertrude Skeate,
daughter of Professor Skeate, the eminent
philologist.


GREAT occasions do not make heroes nor
cowards; they simply unvail them to the
eyes of men.
	THE practice of economy is no disgrace.
it is better living on a little than outliving
a great deal.
	THERE is a pleasure in contemplating
good; there is a greater pleasure in receiv-
ing good, but the greatest pleasure is doing
good, which comprehends the rest.


