THE WOMAN’S VOTE.

	WHAT the women of Utah will do with
suffrage this year, seems to be puzzling
people very greatly, not only abroad in the
land, but here at home. It is a matter for
the most profound thought, and careful 
consideration. It would be very strange if
women themselves knew just exactly what
they ought to do for the best and highest
good, at a critical time like the present,
when men who have had the franchise for
years are breaking away from the political
party which they have always sustained,
and looking elsewhere for the help to secure
the country from peril, who shall decide
these grave questions for women?
	It is the positive duty of every individual
woman to study and examine these grave
and solemn questions for herself, and not
rest satisfied until she has at least sufficient
knowledge of the matter to satisfy her own
conscience. There is much good in both
the great parties, and there are able speak-
ers on both sides, eloquent and logical,
who can convince one against her own will,
as it were. But women though they may
be deceived by sophistry, will not be
bought in large numbers as men have often
been, that is one consolation. Generally
speaking, women will stand by the home,
and the vital question that concern the
family.
	The women of Utah will certainly be
conservative, with very few exceptions.
Those who have passed through “The 
narrows” so to speak, will not risk uncer-
tainties in the matter of voting, they will
at least act conscientiously, seeking for
wisdom and counsel from reliable sources.
There seems to be a wave of unrest passing
over the country such as has not been
known since the civil war; what
is its significance even men who have been
weighing and discussing political economy
and methods all their lives, are unable to
determine, and are drifting hither and
thither with the current that has set in for
good or ill, as the result must prove.
	But the writer has implicit faith in the
future of Utah, and does not believe it de-
pends on partyism entirely, but on
industry, thrift, morality, honesty, integrity
constancy and virtue of its people. What-
ever will promote these sterling qualities
and attributes, will uplift the people of the
new state.
	Yet no one has stronger hopes of the
good to be accomplished by equal suffrage
than the writer. The love of home and
country is rooted and grounded in true


woman’s nature, and that land is safest
where women are free and untramelled, and
can exercise the rights of citizenship I
without fear and intelligently. If every 
woman in Utah who prizes her liberty, and
loves her mountain home, will seek to
comprehend the causes and effects of the 
present conditions over which there
seems to be so much trouble, in nine
cases out of ten she will undoubtedly ar-
rive at a satisfactory conclusion, and be
able to cast her vote judiciously. Re-
member this is an important time, and one
had far better study the question of the
hour and mark the signs of the times,
than to indulge in any frivolity or pas-
time that is only fleeting, and be car-
ried away by the current of circumstances.


