[Vol57 | May 1970 | Page 370 | The Home | One Step At a Time, Judyth | S. Peterson]
and I did very little housework. When I came home at noon, the bed was unmade, dishes from dinner the night before and from breakfast were in the sink, the house was disorderly, and as it took me most of the afternoon to get the dishes done (I moved very slowly!) I had not touched an iron or a mop in ages. The worse the house looked, the worse I felt, and vice versa. Finally, at New Year's resolution time, I knew something had to be done. To reinforce my good intentions, I bought an excellent book on homemaking. When I saw that I should be doing more in one day than I did in an entire week, I felt discouraged. I could never do it. It was like trying to learn to read without being able to recognize the alphabet! I had so far to go that I couldn't even get started. If you have lived for years without good habits, you will know what I mean. Then I had an idea. Perhaps I could never do everything the way I should, but I could do just one thing right. I made a list of my housekeeping problems in the order of their importance, starting with the ones that bothered me most, such as: 1.

One Step at @ Time aa. Ironing left bathroom too long; SO on. T Month had Passed, I fo k with Very little eff Self, for und [I Was doin ort. It Was tj One month I'm goj & this one me for the I told my- €s right after On as I get UP each these two things I can the Counter tops cle MY bed was became more Interested 4N and the Itchen floor Swept. When Made, the clothes 6 the ¢ alr looked Out of lace, and I hung them UP. But the were only by-pr ducts of my Tesolutions Was Concerne With y IMMediate tasks ly, and the good feeling ) aC¢complishmen t. ©2 month J a ded a chor orking on €ach one full Month fave me "nough time to estab] ha new routine, ¢ 8aln co fidence I stil] have long Way to £0, but I am ready for that book 6 °memaking no And I haven t been confronted; the Orning with UNWashed dishes Or a disord ly hous for Several year «I neve never be the worlq' MOSt efficje t homema er, by When think of the Progress I have ad ar, It is not an j Possibility Surely if Can do It, you Can, too. Make Your list right » and be Confident of your Success, J? €aSY—one Step at a time! Anh STORm! Wild in the west the angered Clouds bojI up, Bruising the hills With Purple Painted Wrath OUChing the edge of OUr inverted Cc Sky and following frightening Path he hidde fires hes Oldering sun urn briefly bright behin the SS, then flare Nd slow; d beneath it, one by Till just th Surging Storm Itself js there € wait. We Watch it m h across Our Knowing ts Unleash rage will find us her There is NO place to hide nor run, and I Turn to you Quickly, 8rateful are near; Now SOON the lightning thrust, the t UNder-drums Ove, take Y hand when that fierce 371 How