The Relief Society Magazine " MAY 1970 Mire THE STORYTELLER Running, laughing, the happy children came Up the paths and over little bridges To Anna's house. This was their story hour. Lifted on winds of legend they became River runners, Builders of canoes, Trail blazers Blanketed on boughs of forest pine, Marking the cushioned passing of a bear. High on a mountain, higher than timberline, In feathered soundlessness they watched An eagle build an aerie, twig on twig. Low in the marshes, under the swamp-grass plumes, They touched young avocets, a nest of reeds Carefully laid, blade on blade. Loving the earth as they would always love it, The children waved to Anna, then were gone. Knowing they would come again tomorrow, She, who never bore a child, Could bear her sorrow. —Peggy Tangren The Cover: J Wild Garden in the Mountains, Sanpete County, Utah Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: § Valley in the Mountains Photograph by David Muench Art Layout: § Dick Scopes \Nustrations: I Mary Scopes 321 

I think it is wonderful to have the lessons right in the Magazine and to publish them in

such a way that those of us at a great distance from Salt Lake City have them in plenty

of time to prepare the lessons. . . . There is so much I would like to tell you about the

sweet humble sisters here in Fiji. In our newest branch, the Relief Society president is a

sweet Indian sister who also conducts the singing and translates the lessons into Hindustani.

Belle M. Oswald, Suva, Fiji

A note of appreciation for the Magazine— if there are women anywhere in the world who

feel the need to be devoted wives, loving mothers, true friends, seeking a guide— The

Relief Society Magazine is that ray— if it is read from cover to cover and the meetings

are attended by the sisters— then they are safe and all is well.

Iris Rosser, Selkirk, Manitoba, Canada

The Relief Society Magazine is always an anticipated pleasure for me. I enjoy the

wholesome stories and poems, along with the wonderful lessons. I am thankful that I

found the Church— or rather the missionaries found me ten years ago.

Edna M. Kent, Escondido, California

Thank you for your support of the missionary work. The little gems of thought that we

read in The Relief Society Magazine encourage and uplift us.

Elder Greg LaCheminant, Niteroi, R.J. Brazil

I really enjoyed the article on sourdough ("Make a New Start With Alaskan Sourdough"

by Edythe K. Watson, February 1970). While on Okinawa we were given a start of 1898

Alaska strain by our District President C. Wayne Jenkins. In June, just before we left

Okinawa, the start was accidentally thrown out. We missed our sourdough. Later,

after returning home, I was in a doctor's office and the subject of sourdough came up.

The doctor, a woman, then recounted how a Mormon friend and former missionary to

Alaska had given her a start of this 1898 strain when they were neighbors in Nashville,

Tennessee. To make a long story short, 10,000 miles from the place of our first start,

we were given a replacement of the same strain. It's a small world— I wonder where

else this former missionary's sourdough has been.

Judith L. Gaskin, Rockville, Maryland

As a member of the Church for the past eight years, and a steady subscriber to The

Relief Society Magazine, I express my appreciation for the great enlightenment I receive

from the Magazine. It always meets my need. The September 1969 issue was a special

joy for the visiting teacher message. It gave me a new understanding of what the gospel

means and what it takes to gain eternal life. I shall never part with my silent friend—

The Relief Society Magazine. Violet M. Tate, Pennsauken, New Jersey

I wish to express gratitude for the wonderful lessons for the Relief Society meetings. I

know the world over many are grateful for the help these lessons have given. There is a

world of education from the Magazine. Through the years it has helped me to be a better

mother, housekeeper, and has given me a desire to read better literature.

Sharon Haxton, Cheltenham, Victoria, Australia

Please send me The Relief Society Magazine. I am not of your faith, but I do enjoy the

stories, recipes, and the ideas each month. I have been reading Mary Beagley's Magazines,

so I a m sure I s hall enjoy the ones of my own subscription, and I w ill pass them

on to my neighbors. Mrs. Donald Fitch, Travis A.F.B., California

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. ° 1970 by the Relief Society Genera!