[Vol57 | May 1970 | Page 394 | Lesson | Homema king— The Art of Cooking from the Storage Closet (cont.) Celestia | J. Taylor]
[Homema king— The Art of Cooking from the Storage Closet (cont.) Celestia J. Taylor]

Boston Baked Beans 1 lb. Dried peas or navy beans 1 cup diced onion (1 large) ¥, cup molasses ¥, cup brown sugar, firmly packed 1 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Dry mustard 1 cup hot liquid from beans ¥, lb. Salt pork or ham Wash beans, soak overnight in water to cover. Drain, place beans in large Saucepan, cover with water, add onion, simmer until tender (about one hour.)

history, including the Hill Cumorah, mob scenes, the burning of the Nauvoo Temple and the pioneer entrance into the Salt Lake Valley. Every painting Is reproduced in brilliant color on fine quality paper. They are all in this new edition of Art In America, America's reknowned 56 year old art magazine. The magazine considers these paint: ings as the American art discovery of 1970. The 10 foot wide by 8 foot high originals will be exhibited in the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York for nine weeks. You'll see 21 pages of Mormon art, sculptures, photos and background data in this May-June edition, NOW available through Deseret Book Company. This will become a collectors item. This is the first time such a large collection has been available under one cover and the first time a major national magazine has devoted such wide coverage to Mormon works of art. Order your copies now. They will make excellent gifts. $2.75 ORDER FROM DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110 OR 777 So. Main, Town & Country, Orange, Calif. 92668 Total cost $ -..---This must include 444% sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax from California residents ordering from Orange. Paid by check, LJ) money order, or LJ charge my established account. Also include 25¢ for each book ordered to cover handling and mailing. Name. Address City State Zip May 1970 RS. ————_——_ -- Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah AE Deg te ebtnss ee ern oy Every Year Electricity Does More for You! In 1913, when Woodrow Wilson was inaugurated President and we began providing electric service, there were 8 types of electric appliances for the home. By 1953, the number of household electric work savers had climbed to 56. Now there are over 200. Today in your home you re brushing your teeth, shining your shoes, opening your cans of food and doing other chores electrically — jobs you probably never thought of giving to Reddy Kilowatt ten years ago. Yes, were proud of Reddy Kilowatt's growing helpfulness to you at so reasonable a cost! Electric Fondue Thermostatically controlled heat probe, Teflon lined for non-stick serving. Switch to More Electric— Your Biggest Bargain UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. The RCIliof Society Magazine