[WomansExponent | Vol21 | 1892 | May | Issue: 22 | Title: KING JAMES OF ENGLAND. | Author: WOMAN’S EXPONENT]

KING JAMES OF ENGLAND.
	JAMES the first of England and sixth of
Scotland was the only son of Mary Queen
of Scotts and Henry Lord Darnley, was
born in Edinburgh, June 19, 1566; at the
death of Queen Ellzabeth he succeeded to
the throne of England. Scotland had been
a separate kingdom since the time of Robert
Bruce but now became united with England
in a gratifying manner, having given in-
stead of receiving a king. A few weeks be-
fore the death of Queen Elizabeth, a con-
quest commenced four hundred years be-
fore, by Strongbow; was completed by
Mountjoy, and scarcely had James the first
mounted the English throne than the last
O’Donnell and O’Neil, who held the rank
of independent princes of Ireland, kissed
his hand at White Hall, thus uniting

[column 2]
England, Scotland and Ireland, it would be
supposed the united kingdoms would be
very powerful; both nations were intelli-
gent, courageous and in mental cultivation
the Scotch equaled any other country in
their religious fervor, they were Protestant
while Ireland still remained true to the old
religion. Ireland was treated as a province
won by the sword and Scotland did not
escape,in many ways being treated as a sub-
ject province, but we find the condition quite
the reverse it seemed to be no more importance
than the little kingdom of Scotland had
done. Macaulay think at this critical time
it really was fortunate that James was not
a great leader, for it was a time when
England should be absolute or parliament
control the executive administrations; being
weak minded and good natured. He
further says it was at this time those
strange theories which Tilmer afterwards
formed into a system and which became the
badge of the most violent class of Tories
and high churchmen first emerged into
notice. It was gravely maintained that
the Supreme Being regarded hereditary
monarchy as opposed to other forms of
government with peculiar favour, that the
rule of succession in order of primogeniture
was a divine institution anterior to the
Christians and even to the Mosaic dispen-
sation, that no hnman power, not even that
of the whole legislature, no length of
adverse possession, though it extended to
ten centuries, no power could deprive a
legitimate prince of his rights, that the
authority of such a prince was necessarily
despotic, that the laws by which in England
and in other countries the prerogative was
limited were to be regarded merely as con-
cessions, which the sovereign had freely
made, and might at his pleasure resume,
and that any treaty which a king might
conclude with his people was merely a
declaration of his present intentions and
not a contract of which the preformance
could be demanded.
	James was very secure under this act.
He boasted of his kingcraft and irritated
his parliament by telling them they held
their privileges only during his pleasure
and had no more right to question him
what he should lawfully do than to question
Deity in the same moment. He maintained
the same policy as regards religious belief,
the authority of the Church of England; per-
secuted the Roman Catholics, which severties
caused the gun powder plot, and from the
quickness with which he grasped and acted
on this occasion it is supposed he had
knowledge of it previous to the official
notice. The project was on the fifth of
November, 1605, to overthrow the govern-
ment by placing explosives under the house
of parliament when it was in session, after-
ward warning all who were Roman Catholics
not to be present,to ignite it and blow them
into eternity, it was the warning of these
Catholics which gave the clue to the pro-
ject in time to prevent it. Guy Fawkes,
although only an accomplice, not the origi-
nator, has been a name detested by all
England.
	James married in 1589 Princess Anne,
daughter of Frederic the II. of Denmark.
During a visit to Scotland in 1619 his eldest
son Henry, Prince of Wales,died. He was de-
sirous of effecting a marriage between his son
Charles, now Prince of Wales, and a Span-
ish Princess and it was while negotiation
for this marriage that insults were received
which resulted in war.
	James' claims to supremacy in religious


as well as civil government led to severe per-
secutions; he confiscated the property of
the Roman Catholic and he manifested his
dislike in many other ways.
	The Puritans or dissenters from the
Church of England were also severely per-
secuted on account of the simplicity of
their faith, and claims of the New Testa-
ment as religious authority caused his per-
secution to extend to this class, fearing they
in their earnestness might have an influence,
which would rob him of his supremacy.
Some fled to Holland, and during these per-
secutions in 1620 the Pilgrims left
England for America.
	Shortly after or about this critical time King
James died, and Charles the First ascended
the throne. He was by nature stronger
than his father, but possessed the same
political views. By the same religious in-
fluence surrounding him, he was made to
believe he could not divest himself of his
despotic authority, and when necessity re-
quired his acting as judge could break any
contract he might make.
	The House of Commons was composed of
able statesmen, who were determined to
conform to parliament, or to govern with-
out law.
	The king dissolved parliment and levied
taxes without legal right. Another parli-
ment was called and dissolved, and still
another, with stronger opposition than
ever. One of the fundamental laws of
England was that the king could not im-
pose taxes without the consent of parlia-
ment; administration was bound to be con-
ducted by law. The king was forced to
call parliament, and on the third of Novem-
ber, 1640, this memorable body began its
sittings. Both houses were firm in their
opposition to his dispotism. He was obliged
to consent to many things against his con-
viction. Seeking to make peace with the
Scots and gain their favor, he visited Scot-
land; while there a massacre against Pro-
testants took place in Ireland, and it seemed
that all hope of peace was destroyed.
	On returning to England he found
Parliament more exacting than ever to-
wards him, but a spirit of greater liberty
towards the people seemed to predominate,
though there still existed the belief in
hereditary monarchy and dissensions arose
in the House of Commons. To weaken
the Royalists would be to obtain possession
of the king. Cromwell seemed to under-
stand the situation. It was desired to
terminate the contest between the crown and
parliament and give the supreme control
over to the executive administration.
	Many Royalists through their love of
monarchial government, were attached to
hereditary monarchy; they took sides with
King Charles, though they were not in
sympathy with his conduct and condemned
and lacked confidence in his policy, yet they
venerated the kingly office.
		[To be Continued.]


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


