[Vol55 | November 1968 | Page 834 | General Feature | Editorial Tell It to the Generations Vesta | P. Crawford]
[Editorial Tell It to the Generations Vesta P. Crawford]

Madsen was the 1968 prize-winner in the fourth annual contest of the Utah State Poetry Society for a volume of poems, The Amaranth. Mrs. Madsen has contributed many poems of high literary and emotional quality to The Relief Society Magazine. Mrs. Kate B. Carter, national president, Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, was a speaker at the dedication of the Monument to the Pioneer Women of Arizona, in Phoenix, Arizona. A poem ''In Memoriam" by Bertha Kleinman, outstanding contributor for many years to The Relief Society Magazine, was read. The monument, portraying a copper figure of a mother and child on a granite base and background is believed to be the only monument to pioneer women in the United States. Ann Strobel, several years ago, became the lone woman caster among 106 fishermen to enter a tournament in Spa, Belgium. She won. She has since captured spin and fly tournaments in many places and is now considered the world's top caster. «. 833 Volume 55 November 1968 Number 11 s Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor @ Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor = Evon W. Peterson, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Aleine M. Young Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Mary R. Young Afton W. Hunt Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson Irene W. Buehner rene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Celestia J. Taylor Anne R. Gledhill Belva B. Ashton Zola J. McGhie Oa J. Cannon Lila B. Walch Lenore C. Gundersen Marjorie C. Pingree Dariene C. Dedekind Edythe K. Watson Ellen N. Barnes Kathryn S. Gilbert Verda F. Burton Myrtle R. Olson Alice C. Smith Lucile P. Peterson Elaine B. Curtis Zelma R. West Leanor J. Brown Reba C. Aldous Luella W. Finlinson * Norma B. Ashton TELL If Walk about Zion, and go round about her: tell the towers thereof. Mark ye well her bulwarks, consider her palaces; that ye may tell it to the generation following. (Psalms 48:12-13.) In the days of harvest when the fruits of the earth are gathered once more and the cycle of the year is completed, there are many who feel to rejoice in their blessings. Whatever the season of harvest, though the time be different in the hemispheres, the contemplation of gratitude and the words of thankfulness have similarities in all the lands of the earth. It is natural for those who have received an inheritance, a portion of the earth for their homeland, to praise the Giver and express their gratitude. A feeling of reverence has been recorded throughout the generations, as the Psalmist said: ''The mighty God... Hath spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun to the going down thereof." (Psalms 50:1.) Love of home, reluctance to leave, and joy upon returning are inherent in the lives of people everywhere—those who dwell in the shadow of northern mountains, the people of the plains, inhabitants of islands where summer is continuous, and the people of deserts and wilderness. together and all the SONS Of Gog Shouted for Joy." An elderly woman once Was asked to Summarize her thoughts re. 8arding her life Span, its beginnings and its boundaries. To her, life had seeme SPtritua] Pilgrimage S, ev the dst Of her fam ly, 'N Broups of People, she h elt lone} » thinkin "Lam a Stranger all my fathers Wi € recalled the wo ds of Eliza R W from the son Saint early Ove, "ofttim €cret Omething whispered, ou' Nger here: Nd I felt hat Ip dered from a Ore exalted here," hen € wo ho had €€n asked to summa life UPON the arth related th Pand & phases of Spiritual insi; yea learnin and the blessj f her Nowledge of Pre-existe € andh testimo y OT eternal Pprec ation of "earth tj » he Called her €Mporal ys, 'NcCreased b acceptance of ol esign Planned fo her and Or all the s NS and aughters fG nother » More delayed N her sp Itual en ghtenment, r JOICed jn Mor Ppat Splendor Of the h, Ch she Could See or hear or h—the right asturti Ss h Oryard the UMMming. Rd that visited th Olu INe€; the Pired Ountains at Surround her with Peace. S as so Sratetul fo tion of the €arth that he fe} as the kj g's d hter in the Bible « I 8lorious Within," There man N, also, Who fee} a deep, Imost NexpressibI JOY in th relation hip famili S—devotion Parents, Oyalty ang Ove for hus a Evotion to Children, all as a €quence jn the plan the Heavenly Father has Prepared for his daughters, It is the realization of the eternal Plan that lends a 8lory to the earth 835 ATTENTION: English-speaking Southern Hemisphere Stakes and Missions @ In the Southern Hemisphere, where eight cultural refinement lessons are needed and only seven are published in The Relief Society Magazine, the General Board suggests that each Englishspeaking stake and mission use the eighth cultural refinement lesson period to review the objectives of the seven preceding lessons, pointing out the values which have come to the class members in their lives as women, in applying the objectives to their own lives. Seven assignments might be made in each ward or branch. Since the.