[Vol55 | November 1968 | Page 1 | Fiction | Welcome the | Task Chapter]
[Welcome the Task Chapter]

The Home Inside and Out

[ILLUSTRATION]

BAKING POWDER BISCUITS
4 tbsp. sugar
¾ lb. margarine or butter
4-4½ c. milk
10 c. flour
2½ tsp. salt
5 tbsp. baking powder

Sift flour with salt, baking
power, and sugar. Cut in
margarine or butter until
mixture resembles coarse
crumbs. Add milk all at once
and mix until dough follows
fork around bowl.

Turn out on floured board
and pat into a flat circle
¾ inches thick. Cut with
biscuit cutter. Bake on
ungreased cookie sheet in
hot oven (450°) for 15 minutes.

Handle the dough very
lightly and quickly. This
is the secret of light,
fluffy biscuits.
Serves 25.

CREAMED CHICKEN
2 chickens, 4-5 lbs. each          1 c. flour
2-3 stalks celery                    milk, as needed
2 large onions                       fresh or canned mushrooms, as desired
2-6 tsp. salt                        1 small can pimentos (optional)

Place chicken which has been cut into pieces, celery, onions, and salt, in a
kettle with enough water just to barely cover them. Simmer until chicken is very
tender. Remove from broth and let cool.

Cut chicken into fairly large pieces. Discard skin and bones. Heat fat skimmed
from top of broth and add at least 1 c. flour. Add margarine to increase fat if
necessary. When flour and fat are bubbly, remove from heat to cool slightly. Add
enough milk to broth to make approximately 6 quarts of liquid and stir constantly
until mixture comes to a boil and thickens. Saute mushrooms and add to broth
mixture, together with pimento and chicken pieces. Place kettle in pan of hot
water and heat slowly. Taste for salt. Serve over hot baking powder biscuits
which can be made while chicken is heating. Serves 25.

41

RIBBONS FOR HER WORK

Mabel Lords, Fourth Ward, East Pocatello Stake, Idaho, makes quilts and pillow cases as well as crochet work for her family and Relief Society. She has won many ribbons for her outstanding accomplishments, including a first place at the county fair and second place at the State fair.

In Relief Society, Sister Lords has been work meeting leader and work director, and has served faithfully for many years as a visiting teacher, which she enjoys very much.

She has four children, ten grandchildren, and eleven great-grandchildren. Each of them has received a quilt made by grandma, especially for him, as well as many other gifts of handiwork. Sister Lords enjoys making gifts for her family and for Relief Society, and is especially glad to have the opportunity to work on quilts with her Relief Society sisters.

42
