[Vol56 | December | Magazine Page 946 | PDF Page 950]

--- PAGE 946 (PDF page 950) ---
leaving the rest to Kim. But Kim had been kept on the run from the minute he got home until he could no longer see, fixing up the place for the wedding.

"Grandfather, you are coming with us to the temple, aren't you? You promised, remember?"

"What's that, Rosemary?" her grandfather answered, dragging his gaze from its faraway place. His eyes burned unnaturally bright in his pale face, and his clothes looked like a half-filled sack, he was so thin. His white hair, usually so well-kept, and his shaggy white eyebrows, looked slightly wild.

"You promised to come to my wedding in the temple. Are you able?"

"If I promised, darling, I will come. I always keep a promise."

They took him with misgivings, and then the day was out of their hands—the wedding breakfast and the last minute preparations for the reception that night. He went to his room "to rest" he said, and when it came time for the reception he made his excuses that he was too tired to join them. Mary Ann fixed a supper tray and took it in.

The wedding reception was a highlight for their family, the hundreds of guests from the ward, from Kim's work, from Mary Ann's and the children's associations coming and going was a kaleidoscope of loveliness. One of Kim's friends from work was most impressed with their home, their yard and gardens, the swimming pool, now dramatized at their best by the event.

"Kim, you plutocrat! I had no idea you lived in a place like this."

This pleased Kim, of course, and he murmured something about its being adequate for the family. "We never would have bought so big a place for ourselves—but the children."

"Yes, the children. We've got seven of them, you know, and they are bulging the walls out of our place. We'd sure like to have an outlay like this."

"How would you like this one?" Kim asked jokingly.

"Are you serious?" demanded his co-worker.

"Oh, could we?" his wife abetted.

At long last the affair was over, the last guest gone, the bride and groom having changed quickly and departed in a decorated car trailing old shoes and peppered with rice. Tommy, Lisbeth's hand in his, had also gone, borrowing the little car and tucking her in. There was no mistaking the stars in her eyes, nor the love in his. Barbara, Jennefer, Heidi, and Carol and their husbands, aided by all the children who were still on their feet, were retrieving tissue paper from Rosemary's room, where the gifts had been unwrapped, and were on the patio putting the gifts away.

"Let's check on your father," said Mary Ann.

The supper tray was still on the little table beside his bed, untouched, and Kim's father was on the floor, where he had obviously fallen in an effort to reach the bathroom, because he had been nauseated.

Kim was terrified. "My father is dying!" he said.

(To be concluded)

911