[Vol56 | August | Magazine Page 625 | PDF Page 629]

--- PAGE 625 (PDF page 629) ---
Heart Room For Home

"It's a trap," said Hank. "That's why I married Barbara, and it didn't work. I never get there."

"He's right!" abetted Dick. "It was part of the deal that I get to fish in Jennifer's grandfather's pond, but it never came through. She keeps my nose to the grindstone just like Rosemary will yours."

"I'll tell you what!" said Rosemary, suddenly excited. "Let's go there for our honeymoon—instead of Hawaii. Would it be all right, Grandfather? Oh, please say yes!"

"Certainly," said her grandfather, flushing with pleasure. "Of course you may go there for your honeymoon. I'll ask Victor and Emma to make it ready for you."

Mary Ann caught her breath and looked at Kim. He was remembering, too. It was to that house Kim had brought Mary Ann proudly to meet his parents in their courting days, the pretty new teacher from the Heber Valley, come to Mayville to teach. "The Marriage Bureau," Kim had laughed. "Never a schoolteacher escapes this town. That's why we have such a high rate of culture here. The mothers are all school marms."

It was there he had brought her temporarily as a bride and they had been given the whole upstairs in which to set up their new little housekeeping, Rachel generously contributing everything from bedding to bottled fruit, but never intruding on their privacy. That sweet privacy among the treetops, where they could look from their bedroom window into the petaled hearts of apple blossoms. The beginning cycles of nature had seemed symbols of their own beginnings, and to this day the songs of early robins reminded her of Kim when he was a slim young man, earnest and blonde, when they were newly in love. That house held the Eden days of their early marriage, and it was a fitting honeymoon house for any young couple, secluded as it was between towns, in the mouth of a canyon, its own little entity, and Rosemary's first suggestion brought cries of appreciation from Barbara and Tommy.

"I'd like that," said Cary simply, his eyes shining.

"Now you're talking sense, sis," Tommy congratulated. "Be a lot easier on the budget, too, than Hawaii."

"When are you planning to be married, Rosemary?" Kim's father asked when the excitement died down.

"June the third," said Rosemary.

Mary Ann sensed Father Freeman's unease and could see him mulling the date in his mind. By his calculations, he would be home long since by the first of June. Spring started for him in April or in May, but he said nothing. Any honeymoon should not include an aged grandfather.

"They set it for then, Grandfather, so they wouldn't break into my studies, and I could still make it to the wedding. I should be through with my requirements by then, to graduate a week later."

"Oh! Tommy, that's not true!" protested Rosemary. "We set it for ourselves, didn't we, Cary?

605