[Vol56 | April | Magazine Page 255 | PDF Page 255]

--- PAGE 255 (PDF page 255) ---
Hope and Encouragement for Cancer Cure

the family. At this time, there was no certain prevention nor cure. We saw my mother-in-law fade away to her death. We saw our stepmother in her mortal agonies, finally to pass away while still in middle life. Then, we saw my younger sister, mother of seven children, fight for her life through endless months. All assistance was brought to save her, but the dread killer literally ate away much of her face. This experience was hardly over and its sweet victim buried, when the killer attacked me. It was to hit me in one of my most vulnerable spots. All my work depended on a voice—What would life be without a voice—especially in my work!

I remembered in the scripture where Joel, the prophet, said "Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision: for the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision."

To die early or to survive a living death without a voice with which to do my sacred work! I

was near lost in my own valley of decision.

My faithful local specialist prevailed upon the New York specialist to remove only the actually diseased tissue, and a part of one vocal cord was spared the knife. And thanks to a great throat specialist and his advisers, and the kind and loving grace of my Lord through the numerous prayers of the multitudes of my friends, I speak. My gratitude has no bounds. I know of many who have not been so fortunate.

And, I look forward to the day when the fiend cancer takes its place in the cemetery of diseases, along with the other ones already controlled.

To this end, we meet tonight to give hope, encouragement with funds and cheers and confidence to those who will never cease their relentless efforts till cancer is conquered.

And, I pray that this may soon be the great blessing of all people in this, our precious global village, in the cause of his Holy Name. Amen.

THANKFULNESS

There are so many things I'm thankful for:
The brightness of the early morning climb
Of sun when day begins, and brighter still
The west when sunset heralds evening time.

The warmth and comfort of my little house,
And all the friends who often stop to cheer
What otherwise might be a lonely hour;
And then my far-off family most dear.

For length of years, and talent lent to serve
In bringing bits of joy to humankind;
For health and strength all through the many years,
My calm assurance, and my peace of mind.

—Grace B. Wilson