[Vol56 | February | Magazine Page 107 | PDF Page 108]

--- PAGE 107 (PDF page 108) ---
had set an egg-beater in the middle of it and given it half a turn.

"No," Mama said. "At twenty-five cents apiece and me with five girls? I make my own, out of newspaper. I pin them on, of course, till they are right before I cut into the cloth. It's easy, Etta. You just . . ."

"I would never dare! I'll borrow a pattern from Annie, but I've got to get at it." She looked discontentedly around our dining room. "I declare! I don't know how you get over the ground with seven kids and farm help to do for. Me, with only one child, and I'm on the run every minute."

Mama thought that over as if it was news to her. "I do have a lot to do, don't I?"

When Etta was gone Mama looked after her with approval. "There's a woman who never diddle-daddles. Here it is only eight and she has her dishes done and her beds made and she knows exactly what she is going to do every minute of this day. I admire a woman like that."

Etta was hitching along down the path, giving a little jerk about every third step. She seemed to be hurrying, but was going up and down and from side to side as much as she was going forward. When Mama walked she didn't seem to hurry, but I had to run to keep up.

"Mama, when are we going to make my Fourth dress?" I asked. I just ached for her to say "right now."

"Why, child! It's only May."

"I know, but Etta is starting Eunice's dress right now."

"I'll think about it," Mama said. Sometimes Mama thought

about a thing a whole month, and the night before the Fourth she was almost always up till two or three finishing dresses for us girls, but somehow they were always laid out on the beds in plenty of time before the celebration. "Right now I am going to make a cake. You girls get at your work."

It was my week to wash dishes. Jennie and Lucy were already making beds. Mary was sweeping the kitchen—not very well, because the broom was taller than she was. What made it worse was that Lalla was right in the middle of the sweepings with her little broom "helping" by sweeping busily in every direction.

Before Mama could make a cake she found she had to go after eggs, because we'd eaten so many for breakfast. "I'll be gone just a minute," she whispered, and slipped out the back door. Lalla had turned. Lalla was a nuisance in the chicken coop.

"Mama?" said Lalla, missing her.

"Mama's gone bye-bye," I said calmly, and she accepted it, went back to her sweeping.

Mama wasn't back in a minute, as she thought she would be. When I wiped off the kitchen table I saw her feeding the chickens from the granary door, and knew she had argued it was easier to gather eggs while they were eating, but later she was cleaning out the chicken coop. Now she would want me to get the wheelbarrow and put the fertilizer on her flower bed. I'd get out of that job if I could!

Sometimes we stopped working when Mama was not in the house, at least until we saw her coming

108