[Vol56 | September | Magazine Page 680 | PDF Page 684]

--- PAGE 680 (PDF page 684) ---
saying he just made them up."

Naomi put her glass down. "Mike, let's change the subject. I'm quite sure David won't be anything like the Murch boy."

"Well, I should hope not," Gramps said firmly. "He wasn't right for our Myra."

"That was four years ago," Naomi said. "Myra's a grown young lady now."

"Not to me . . . she's still a little girl, but I reckon if she's gone and found the one she wants, I'll do my best to like him," Gramps said as he got to his feet and handed her his empty glass. "I'd better get back to my job so I'll be finished when they get here."

"Say, Gramps, you could go camping with me if you want to," Mike said, joining him back at the rosebush. "then if you don't like him. . . ."

"No, Siree," Gramps stated emphatically. "I wouldn't miss meeting the two for anything. Not 'all the king's horses' could drag me away today."

"Just thought I'd ask," Mike said, "sorry I have to leave you Gramps, and gather up my camping stuff right away."

"And I must get busy," Naomi said, arising from her chair. "Mike, try to get home early enough tomorrow to spend some time with your sister and meet her friends."

"All right, Mom."

Well, I have my answer from Gramps, Naomi thought as she returned to the kitchen. He's spending the week end right here, and that was that. She took a dish from the cupboard. Naturally he wants to meet David. She

didn't blame him, but Myra had a point, too. For a moment she lowered her head. "Dear Father in heaven, help us to work things out without hurting anyone." She felt better immediately.

I've been being too melodramatic she told herself while she beat the cake icing. What could possibly happen? Myra was worrying about something that happened years ago when the Murch boy was going through a smarty stage. But supposing Gramps didn't like David? He wasn't exactly the silent type about his dislikes—but Walter was right about his father, "Only the genuine survive him"—and if the young man wasn't fine. . . .

Since Myra had been attending the university, David was the first young man she had invited home. Myra must be fond of him; he must be someone extra special, Naomi reflected. She poured a large portion of the creamy white frosting on the cake and dabbed the sides. If he isn't genuine, Gramps, with his keen insight of human nature, would—why was she crossing bridges she might never come to? She had faith in her daughter's judgment—David would be all Myra had said he was and more.

"Can I help?" Gramps poked his head around the kitchen door just as she finished decorating the cake. "I'm through in the yard."

"Thank you, Gramps. I'll manage very well."

"Then reckon I'll clean up a bit. I don't want the tyke to be ashamed of her old grampa."

"As if she could be," Naomi laughed.

656