[Vol56 | October | Magazine Page 783 | PDF Page 788]

--- PAGE 783 (PDF page 788) ---
Black Walnut Gathering

Pauline L. Jensen

[ILLUSTRATION: Drawing of a squirrel with a large bushy tail]

■ In my childhood, October meant more than blue skies, glorious sunsets and crisp nights when we pulled the wool comforters to our chins and snuggled in dreamy content beneath them. It meant more than the red of sumac and maple leaves; more than the final fling of beauty from the chrysanthemum bushes before winter descended and gently cradled them in sleep.

October, in Nebraska, was black walnut gathering time. There, in my early years, black walnuts grew in abundance in the woods of every farm. Tall and straight, the trees stretched along the banks of the turbulent Missouri River. In rows, they formed a windbreak on the side-roads, having been planted, in many instances, by the first settlers of the region.

An abundance of trees did not always insure us of an ample supply of the delicious nuts that added a touch of luxury to our simple fare. After the first frost, people came in droves to retrieve each nut that fell along the highways or on the river banks. In the farm woodlands, the squirrels hoarded great stores of them against the long winter months ahead. But farmers were kind, generous people, willing to share their bounty with neighbors and friends, or even strangers.

We were fortunate, in that we had relatives living in the country. Invariably, in early October after the first frost, we set aside a day as "Black Walnut Day." The entire clan then gathered at the home of one of the farming members of the group.

I remember with what joyous anticipation we looked forward to these affairs. The winey odor of fallen apples met us as we stepped from the car. Chickens preened their feathers in sheltered spots beside the house, and cats squatted in the sun, their eyes glinting in their solemn faces. In the fields, corn shocks stood in wispy fashion, reminding us that the not too distant past, true wigwams had stood upon that very soil. The feel and scent that belongs only to October filled the air. This was the typical "Black Walnut" day of my younger years.

I recall with nostalgic longing the appetizing fragrance of roasting pork, baking chickens, spicy pies, and hot rolls that we encountered as we opened the door. Because most of my ancestors were of Pennsylvania Dutch extraction, the food conformed to that mode of cooking. And where could one find better? More than the traditional "seven sweets" and "seven sours" graced the enlarged tables.

756