[Vol56 | April | Magazine Page 256 | PDF Page 256]

--- PAGE 256 (PDF page 256) ---
1968

award winners

Relief Society Poem
Contest

■ The Relief Society General Board is happy to announce the names of the three winners in the 1968 Relief Society Poem Contest.

The first prize of forty dollars is awarded to Ina Jespersen Hobson, El Cajon, California, for her poem "Pisgah." Second prize of thirty dollars is awarded to Alice Morrey Bailey, Salt Lake City, Utah, for her poem "Of Ephraim." Twenty dollars is awarded to the third place winner, Pearle M. Olsen, Salt Lake City, for her poem "Woman Remembered."

The poem contest has been conducted annually by the Relief Society General Board since 1924. It is open to all Latter-day Saint women and is designed to encourage poetry writing and to increase appreciation for creative writing.

Prize-winning poems are the property of the Relief Society General Board and may not be used for publication by others except by written permission from the General Board. The Board reserves the right to publish any of the poems submitted, paying for them at the time of publication according to the regular Magazine rates. A writer who has received first place for two consecutive years must wait two years before she is eligible to enter the contest again.

Mrs. Hobson is a first-time winner in the contest and a first-time contributor to The Relief Society Magazine. Mrs. Bailey is well known to readers of the Magazine, having placed seven times in the poem contest and four times in the short story contest, as well as being represented in the Magazine many times with serials, short stories, and poems. Mrs. Olsen has placed in the poetry contest three times, and many of her poems have been published in the Magazine.

Four hundred sixty-nine poems were entered in the 1968 contest, representing forty-one States, including Hawaii, as well as Canada, Australia, England, Scotland, Northern Ireland, Venezuela, New Zealand, the Tongan Islands, and Guam. The largest number of entries was received from Utah, California, Idaho, Arizona, Washington, Colorado, New Mexico, Michigan, New York, and Montana, in that order. Ten entries came from Australia, nine from Canada, and seven from England.

The winners are to be congratulated by the General Board and appreciation is expressed to all entrants for their interest in the contest. The services of the judges and members of the General Board who served on the contest committee are also appreciated. The prize-winning poems, together with photographs and brief sketches of the prize winners, are published in this issue.

248