[Vol56 | April | Magazine Page 254 | PDF Page 254]

--- PAGE 254 (PDF page 254) ---
would some day travel the world around into far corners of numerous countries where this disease still ravages communities, and that we would never be inconvenienced nor suffer again from this killer—smallpox. The vaccination operation is simple and takes but a minute, and there is real protection, thanks again to the noble, relentless medical searchers for cures.

And then memory took me back again to the time when our youngest became paralyzed with the dreaded infantile paralysis which was so rampant in the thirties. The family doctor did not recognize the symptoms, and our little three-year-old lay for days as we suffered with him. Finally, impatiently, we took little Eddie to another doctor who, on the second visit, got out his big book and compared the symptoms with the little fellow's aches and pains and fevers, and said: "You know, I am afraid this is poliomyelitis."

This had always been a torture word to us. Eddie's granduncle had been on crutches nearly his whole life. Never had he been able to use one of his legs. And I had frequently walked to school in my childhood days with William, a boy a little older than myself. I assume his crippled body was the result of this torturing malady. With a cane, he struggled his way the two blocks to school. How I ached for him when I had such strong straight legs, and he, with bent and crippled ones, gave such great exertion to cover the distance. He spent his later years in a wheel chair. With all this in mind, the prospect of our

little son being a polio victim was devastating.

In only hours, we were traveling through the night across the deserts of Arizona and California to take him to recognized specialists. Our little one was taken from our arms, placed on a hospital truck, and whisked away to a fourth-story quarantine area. The suffering of our little fellow, his loneliness, his mother's telling him stories by the hour through the crack in the door, our huddling down under his window and agonizing as he cried in his fear and loneliness, is another story, as is also the many years of commuting to Los Angeles, the numerous operations, the therapy by his devoted mother, the metal braces from neck to toe, the casts, and the crutches, the canes—all this cannot be told when time is now so crowded.

There were the dime marches, the crusades for funds, the amassing of scientists and the accelerating of research. Among the numerous other victims of polio at that time was Franklin D. Roosevelt who later became the President of the United States.

As we agonized through those years and hoped and prayed, little did we dream that vaccines would be discovered which would largely eradicate this menace of polio from the torture chambers, and again, though it was late for us, we thanked the Lord and the scientists and the contributors for their untiring zeal and contributions to rid the world of this dread enemy which maimed and crippled so many.

And then, cancer came into

246