[Vol56 | February | Magazine Page 150 | PDF Page 151]

--- PAGE 150 (PDF page 151) ---
Lesson Department

5. (a) Am I striving to bring unity and not dissension into all relationships where I am involved? If so, how?
   (b) Do I believe that nonconformity is desirable when to conform would violate a gospel principle, or do I cultivate a general attitude of opposition? (Lesson 6.)

6. (a) Do I follow counsel and direction willingly or do I serve half-heartedly, and resent the time spent in Church service?
   (b) Am I a good follower by reading the Relief Society lessons in the Magazine before coming to meeting so that I may assist the class leader with helpful participation and benefit myself thereby? (Lesson 7.)

FOR ALL WOMANHOOD

President Clark had great respect for womankind, a deep understanding of her role in the plan of salvation, and a tender, almost reverent appreciation for all women who fulfill the role of wife and mother with compassion and honor.

Relief Society sisters who have heard him address their Annual General Conference sessions, have been inspired by his counsel, by his testimony, and by his words which help one to envision the destiny of righteous mothers of Zion.

Perhaps no Church leader of our time has spoken of the specific role of the Latter-day Saint woman with more understanding. He speaks movingly of her influence as virtuous sweetheart, devoted wife, and loving mother. In "To Them of the Last Wagon" he pays humble tribute to his own mother, who was born in 1848 as the pioneer convert family moved slowly across the desert miles to the mountain valleys of promise. His wife, Luacine Savage Clark, was a devoted helpmeet. He appreciated her willingness to adapt herself to the varying conditions of their happy married life.

Although not specifically mentioned in the following excerpts, which accent wifehood and also motherhood, President Clark was mindful of all Latter-day Saint women. He was aware of the blessings of eternity which await the virtuous woman who accepts the commandments and ordinances of the gospel available to her, although she may not be blessed with motherhood. Uncounted women have been, and are engaged in earthly careers of valuable and unselfish service to children who are not their own earthly offspring. In the fields of nursing, teaching, social work, counseling, and many other such vocations, there are innumerable virtuous and worthy women. The justice of the Father will not overlook virtue and service in all his daughters.

PLAN AND FULFILLMENT

Question:
Do you as a Latter-day Saint woman sometimes wonder how important you are in the all encompassing plan of the gospel?

In an address delivered at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 3, 1946, President Clark outlined the role of woman in the plan of the gospel, emphasizing her importance in forwarding that plan. From his address we quote:

So came Eve, an helpmeet to the Priesthood mission of Adam—Eve the last created being in the creation of the world, without whom the whole creation of the world would have been useless and all that was in the world would have been in vain and the purposes of God have come to naught. . . . When, after the Fall, both Adam and Eve knowing good from evil, the Lord

151