[Vol56 | August | Magazine Page 624 | PDF Page 628]

--- PAGE 624 (PDF page 628) ---
August 1969

as they were with their teaching assignments, but reverted to their usual Sunday morning activities. Of course, Mary Ann could not go. "Please make my apologies to the class leader," she said. She was president of the gospel doctrine class.

"I wonder how soon I'll be able to go?" asked Father Freeman, looking after the men with longing.

"Next Sunday, Dad," assured Mary Ann. "We'll be more organized by then. There's no reason you can't go everywhere with two strong men to lift you and a wheelchair to ride in."

"That's good," he said. "Beginning tomorrow I am going to start a definite program of exercises. Pretty soon I'll be able to walk, and then I won't be such a burden on you."

It was useless to assure him he was no burden; he could see otherwise.

"Kim will help you with your bath when he comes home," she told him, "while I get dinner on the table. And, Dad, we are very glad to have you with us. The children will all be here for dinner. I hope it will not be too much for you."

"Just like it was at home when she was alive," Father Freeman said with satisfaction, "the gathering of the clan."

He was immaculate, his snowy hair sparkling, when the first contingent arrived—Jennifer and Dick and their pretty little family, three girls and two scrubbed, freckle-faced little boys.

Right on their heels came Cary, demanding to know if they had any tall, skinny red-heads

around, kissing Rosemary unabashedly before them all.

"'Tiss me, too, Tary," said Jennifer's youngest, Becky, pursing her little red lips. Cary complied, lifting her high. He was courtly, meeting Rosemary's grandfather. "How do you do, sir? I want to hear about that fabulous home Rosemary has been telling me about. How was your trip?"

"Here comes Aunt Barbara and Uncle Hank," piped Dennis. "Now we can eat."

Barbara's five children were dark-eyed and serious, well-mannered and quiet, in contrast to Jennifer's sandy-red and vociferous brood.

It was the usual, happy babble at the elongated table, with a dozen conversations going on, interspersed with requests for food and the admonishings of parents as to manners and spilling.

"Grandpa, is my little castle still there?" asked Barbara.

"I think," said her grandmother, "that a couple of mountain squirrels have taken up housekeeping, but the walls are unhurt."

"Your castle?" echoed Tommy. "I'll have you know I fought the battle of Hastings from that castle, and dubbed every knight of King Arthur's Round Table. The moat was real and the drawbridge actually came down, chiseled out of sheer rock, the whole thing!"

"Now, Mr. Freeman," put in Cary. "Everybody knows at last why I'm marrying Rosemary—so I can get to your place and revert to my boyhood for all the things I missed."

604