[Vol56 | April | Magazine Page 257 | PDF Page 257]

--- PAGE 257 (PDF page 257) ---
1968

award winners

Relief Society Short Story
Contest

The Relief Society General Board is pleased to announce the winners in the 1968 Relief Society Short Story Contest.

The first prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to Iris Schow, Brigham City, Utah, for her story "A Horse and Buggy Romance." Second prize winner is Lael J. Little, Pasadena, California, for her story "Mama and the Teddy Bear." Her prize is sixty dollars. Grace Madsen Pratt, Merced, California, is winner of the third prize of fifty dollars for the story, "The Silver Pitcher."

The Relief Society Short Story Contest was first conducted by the General Board in 1942, as a feature of the Relief Society Centennial observance, and was made an annual contest in 1943. The contest is open to all Latter-day Saint women who have had at least one literary composition published or accepted for publication in a periodical of recognized merit.

The three prize-winning stories are published in this issue of the Magazine, with accompanying photographs and brief biographical sketches of the authors.

The contest was initiated to encourage Latter-day Saint women to express themselves in the field of fiction, and they are encouraged to read and study short stories and fiction techniques in order to improve their skills in writing and their appreciation of short stories. The General Board feels that the response to the contest continues to increase the literary quality of the Magazine and aids the women of the Church in the development of their talents in creative writing.

Eighty-six stories were submitted in 1968, being the largest number ever entered in the contest. Nearly all of the States in the United States were represented by the entries, and submissions came also from Canada, England, Finland, and Australia.

Prize-winning stories are the property of the General Board of Relief Society and may not be used for publication by others except with the written permission of the General Board. The Board reserves the right to publish any story submitted to the contest, paying upon publication according to the regular Magazine rate. A writer who has received first prize for two years consecutively must wait for two years before she is eligible to enter the contest again.

Gratitude is extended to members of the General Board and to the judges who evaluated the stories and selected the winning entries. The winners are to be congratulated on the quality of the writing and the interesting development of their stories.

249