[Vol56 | December | Magazine Page 945 | PDF Page 949]

--- PAGE 945 (PDF page 949) ---
surance fellows can do the same. That way we're both ahead."

His impact on the family was there—Rosemary's right-about face from dependence to independence, Tommy's own, even the change of Mary Ann from a fashionable working woman to a homemaker, and Kim's emergence as the real head of the household.

All because they had brought Kim's father to live with them instead of selling his beloved homestead and putting him in a home for the aged. Tommy was fair. He showed how this might not work for some families. He outlined his parents' dilemma—the unfinished payments on the mortgage, the upkeep of a too large home when the children were gone. Tommy offered his solution, and Mary Ann wished he would. He was merely the scientific observer, and said it would be interesting to see the drama played out to the end, with a satisfactory solution for them all, or failure, and that it deserved further study.

There was no time to think of either alternative just now, but both hovered over Kim and Mary Ann like dark-winged birds. The thesis was done and approved barely in time for Tommy's flight to Washington and the symposium, where he made a brilliant presentation of his paper, according to the Dean. It would be published in the fall and included in the Society's Proceedings of the Thirty-Fifth Annual Symposium. The newspapers picked it up as a "Revolutionary Solution to the Care of the Aged," and featured it.

"About as revolutionary as

Methuselah," commented Kim drily.

Several offers of professorships at various colleges came of it, and Tommy was invited to submit a proposal to a scientific foundation for a sizeable grant to support further research on it. Lizbeth was at the airport to meet him and she looked at him with respect. Mary Ann noted she was not wearing her engagement ring.

This was just an interlude, for they went back to the bridal showers for Rosemary given by her friends, the trousseau tea at the Freeman home, with the excited female relatives, and some of the male ones, coming and going, then exclaiming over her matched outfits of clothing, her linens and silver, everything beautiful for a bride. Her ivory white satin wedding dress was sheathed in her closet, her accompanying temple clothing pressed and packed into a small white case. Rosemary, with her mother's help, had not missed a detail to make her wedding perfect.

It was Rosemary who drew the family's attention to her grandfather.

"I don't remember hearing him speak a word in three weeks," she said. "And he looks sad and frail. I so wanted him at my wedding, but not if it will be too much for him. Grandpa's all right, isn't he?"

Her father looked suddenly frightened, and guilt swept over Mary Ann. There was no doubt she had neglected her father-in-law in the excitement and hubbub in the last few weeks, doing only what was necessary for him and

910