[Vol56 | July | Magazine Page 3 | PDF Page 3]

--- PAGE 3 (PDF page 3) ---
From Near and Far

The Magazine is wonderful, and the sisters up here in Canada really love it. Many who are nonmembers read the Magazine and love it, too. It is a great help in missionary work.
Helen D. Toronto, Relief Society Supervisor, Canadian Mission

The Relief Society Magazine is wonderful, and we receive much humility and inspiration from it when problems beset us. Anna Molenaar, Napier, Hawkes Bay, New Zealand

I have subscribed for The Relief Society Magazine for a year, although I have been a member of the Church for almost eight. It seems unbelievable all the things that one can learn from the Magazine, especially in the theology lessons, which are the ones I like best.
Mariluz de Flores, Rama de Talca, Chile

I have thoroughly enjoyed the non-fiction in The Relief Society Magazine in recent issues. Marie Call Webb's "Lady on Survival" (August 1968), and Jean A. Jensen's "A Dutch Treat" (September 1968) are my favorites. I hope there will be more articles of this type.
Jeanne W. Gunn, Provo, Utah

I was thrilled when the June 1968 issue of The Relief Society Magazine contained an article on "Australia—An Island Continent in Bloom," by Wealtha S. Mendenhall, and pictures of several of the largest cities. I was then preparing to accompany my husband to a scientific convention in Adelaide, and the background information helped to make our trip more enjoyable.
Elna K. Wallace, Los Angeles, California

I am a long-time member of the Church, baptized when I was eight years old, and I am now a grandmother of five. I enjoy the Magazine very much, especially the poetry.
Mrs. Kathleen Fulton, Palatka, Florida

I have found our Magazine wonderful company out here. I brought all of this year's copies with me, but had to leave the rest at home in Cairns, Queensland, much to my sorrow. I am re-reading the 1968 Magazines and find as much, if not more, enjoyment from them than before. My twelve-year-old daughter has read many of the stories and some of the articles. She loves the pictures of the work the sisters do. We came across from Queensland to Northern Territory in June, and we are the only married couple at this camp. I miss attending Relief Society, and I miss the Church meetings, but the Lord has something in store for me I am sure.
Nancy D. F. Tuddenham, Katherine, Northern Territory, Australia

As a new member of the Church, just a year this September, I am more than pleased with The Relief Society Magazine. The lessons and advice help me to be more like what I should be to my family, and the poems and stories are clean and entertaining. I was especially delighted with the article by Myrtle R. Garner on home nursing (September 1968). I am a member of the career staff of the Indianapolis Area Chapter of the Red Cross, in the nursing and safety services, so this program is dear to my heart. The knowledge learned in home nursing class is threefold in value: in the home, in Relief Society duties, and in community service.
Linda R. Greene, Indianapolis, Indiana

It was a great thrill to see my "family" come to life in the October Magazine ("The Anniversary," by Kathleen Peace Gregory) under the hands of your artist Mary Scopes. My real life family are quite proud of my attempt at short story writing.
Kathleen Peace Gregory, Dewsbury, Yorkshire, England

2