[Vol56 | August | Magazine Page 626 | PDF Page 630]

--- PAGE 626 (PDF page 630) ---
August 1969

I always wanted a June wedding," said Mary Ann. "As you say, Kim, we'll just have to play it by ear."

"I don't," said Cary, with proper gallantry. "I wanted it the day I asked Rosemary, or the next day—no later."

"Cary!" said Rosemary. "You know we can't be ready until June—all the things I want for my wedding. I have it on a timetable, month by month, day by day. It can't be before June."

Wasn't Rosemary going to scale down her wedding, in view of their conversation last night? Mary Ann's eyes sought Kim's.

"You will be here for it, won't you, Grandfather? And well enough to go with us to the Los Angeles Temple?"

"You bet I will, darling," her grandfather assured her, but Mary Ann noticed a false heartiness in his voice, and her heart ached. Kim, always sensitive to her thoughts, noticed it, too.

Later that night with the day behind them and the children all dispersed to go to their respective wards when Kim's father was resting, Kim brought it up.

"It doesn't seem quite honest of us to not tell Dad he can't possibly get back home by spring, no matter what his condition of recovery. We can't let him go back alone, and we ought not to hold out hope."

"I think he's beginning to the realization by degrees," said Mary Ann, "and it's better that way. Maybe we can wean him gradually to California living."

"I hope so," said Kim without conviction. "I wonder what Rosemary meant, the things she wants for her wedding. Can't she see that now she will have to plan for less?"

"Spring is a long way off,"

"What about tomorrow?"
"Barbara will come while I get over to school and talk to the principal."

Kim fell asleep easily, but Mary Ann was afraid to sleep too soundly, for fear his father might need something during the night. She awakened feeling tired and apprehensive about breaking her contract.

"How does it feel to be leaving for work the last time?" asked Barbara when she came.

"I'll tell you later," said Mary Ann as she joined Rosemary in the waiting car, because, of course, Rosemary would have to go on substituting until she was replaced. Just now she felt the loss of her job was cataclysmic. How were they going to go on without her salary?

It was Rosemary who opened the tender subject as she drove along the boulevard toward San Gabriel School.

"You know, Mother, they paid us Friday. The first real pay check I ever had! It's rather a good feeling."

"Rosemary, dear, I'm so sorry about your having to scale down your wedding."

"Don't be," said Rosemary serenely. "I don't intend to scale down. I've been thinking. There's no reason why I can't get a job and earn the things I want myself. Do you think they will let me have your class? Or do they have a backlog of teachers just aching to take over?"

"If they had they would certainly not have let you substitute for me in the first place.

606