[Vol56 | February | Magazine Page 149 | PDF Page 150]

--- PAGE 149 (PDF page 150) ---
February 1969

growth, an individual should put forth spiritual, mental, and physical effort, and he believed that it is important for individuals and for nations to give full value in return for that which they receive. At a First Citizen's Conference on Government Management held at Estes Park, Colorado, in 1939, President Clark articulated the struggles of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints through handicaps of nature, and through various migrations resulting from severe persecution, to its later growth and prosperity. He said:

The Church vigorously decries idleness. Industry, economy, and thrift are extolled. Deceit, avarice, dishonesty, lying, greed, graft are condemned. Honesty, truthfulness, sobriety, willingness to give, love for fellowmen, sympathy for woe, misery, and want, service to and for others are urged to the point of command. (J. Reuben Clark Jr., "The Honor and Value of Work and Self-Reliance," The Improvement Era, September 1965, pp. 780-781.)

An impressive statement from this discussion is this:

The laws of righteousness and progress are eternal. There is no escape from them, either for the individual or for the nation.
An uncorrupted citizenry builds a great state; no state ever built an uncorrupted citizenry. (Ibid.)

Question:

Do you believe that Latter-day Saint mothers today may be denying their children the development which comes from work because they want them to have an "easier" life than they themselves had? Discuss briefly.

ASKING MYSELF—IN REVIEW

The following questions relate to the social relations lessons of this year (1968-69). They will recall major ideas developed in the lessons and may encourage additional thinking and class participation.

1. (a) Are the questions which every thoughtful Latter-day Saint woman asks regarding her place in the plan of life satisfactorily answered in my mind?
   (b) How should these answers influence my activities and my attitude? (Lessons 2 and 8.)

2. (a) Am I making use of the teachings of the Savior in my various human relationships? For example, are they helping me:
   To make love and kindness dominant in the atmosphere of the home?
   To demonstrate compassion for a neighbor who has experienced disappointment or sorrow, with a concrete act of kindness?
   To encourage a peaceful, friendly atmosphere in the neighborhood by being such a person?
   To be merciful to myself by forgiving myself of an error as I strive to overcome it?
   (b) Do I read the scriptures enough to know what Jesus teaches regarding human relationship problems? (Lesson 3.)

3. (a) Am I allowing the uncertainties of today's complex world to make me discouraged? If so, what am I forgetting?
   (b) Am I helping my children understand that faith, virtue, and courage are especially important and needed in today's world—and that they must help to build a better tomorrow? (Lesson 4.)

4. (a) Do I ever appraise my attitude and activities to see if I am being deceived by false religious doctrines, the importance of luxury possessions, false social values?
   (b) Do I ever wonder if my attitude and actions may give an impression that I consider myself better than others?
   (c) Do I deceive myself, thinking that I am sufficiently righteous and have no need for improvement or concern? (Lesson 5.)

150