[Vol56 | February | Magazine Page 135 | PDF Page 136]

--- PAGE 135 (PDF page 136) ---
North Sevier Stake (Utah) Board Contributes To
Success of the Relief Society Program

North Sevier Stake Relief Society officers, seated, left to right: Aldena A. Thompson, Secretary-Treasurer; Arnelda M. Poulson, Second Counselor; Bernice M. Mickelsen, First Counselor; Wilma H. Sorensen, President.

Standing, left to right: Ora M. Mason, visiting teacher message leader; Thula Nielsen, homemaking leader; Leona J. Mickelsen, spiritual living class leader; LaVerde S. Gurney, Magazine representative; Melva N. Johnson, social relations class leader; Joyce Groomer, cultural refinement class leader; LaJuana Bastian, organist; Billie Lou Johnson, chorister.

Sister Sorensen reports: "These sisters have been faithful in furthering the success of Relief Society in our stake. They serve devotedly and attend the required meetings regularly. We have a lovely board room which was decorated and furnished by contributions and stake board funds. It also serves as a garment distribution center, managed by the president and assisted by other willing Relief Society workers."

South Box Elder Stake Honors All Who Have Served on the
Stake Board, August 14, 1968

Front row, third from left: Iva Lou Nebeker, President, South Box Elder Stake Relief Society; fourth: Helen Bunnell, former president.

The remaining sisters are current and past members of the stake board.

Sister Nebeker reports: "A dinner honoring all those who had served on the Relief Society stake board since 1963 when the stake was organized, was held. The occasion was to reveal a history book compiled recently.

"Included in the history book were pictures and write-ups of socials, special accomplishments, programs from conferences, and other events, and statistical data.

"We felt that getting together to see the history book would be a pleasant interlude for the sisters. One of the highlights of the book is a personal history sketch of each sister who served on the stake board. It was a most pleasant and successful evening."

New York Stake, West Point Branch Relief Society
Unique in Locale and Activities

Members of the West Point Branch Relief Society, left to right: Lola Turek; Mary Blackham; Lois Hobson, Second Counselor; Myrna Redd; Polly Jordan, First Counselor; Joyce Mumford, President; Penny Lockard; Kaye Palmer; Elaine Bons.

Ada H. Miller, President, New York Stake Relief Society, reports: "The West Point Branch Relief Society, though newly organized and consisting of only nine members, is productive and active. On May 10, 1968, they held a spring social consisting of a cruise down the Hudson River.

"Their unique location affords them interesting fund-raising possibilities. The corsages worn by the sisters are colorful chrysanthemums which are in great demand during the football season when the Army team meets its opponents. The wall hangings are actual miniature reproductions of the uniforms worn by cadets at the United States Military Academy.

"We are inspired by the devoted manner in which these sisters carry out the functions of Relief Society."