[Vol56 | October | Magazine Page 752 | PDF Page 757]

--- PAGE 752 (PDF page 757) ---
**Testimony**

of the gospel or any related subject. Any accountable person can gain a testimony if he will obey the laws upon which the receipt of such knowledge is predicated. But here, as elsewhere, there are certain prerequisites, which may be listed roughly as follows:

1. The seeker must desire to know the truth of the gospel or whatever is involved in his quest.

2. He must study and learn everything possible with relation to the matter involved. In John 5:39 we read: "Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life." And we are directed in the Doctrine and Covenants 1:37 to "Search these commandments."

3. The applicant must practice the principles and truths which he learns and bring his life into harmony with them. The Savior said: "My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me. If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself." (John 7:16, 17.)

4. He must constantly pray to the Father and exercise faith that the truth will be manifested by revelation through the Holy Ghost.

Moroni tells us that by the power of the Holy Ghost ye may know the truth of all things. (Moroni 10:3-5.)

When the Apostle Paul answered Christ's question as to who he, the Savior, was, he had the spirit of revelation, and Jesus said to him: "Blessed art thou, Simon Bar-jona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven." (Matt. 16:17.)

This bears out the claim that direct and personal revelation is available to men if they will learn the necessary prerequisites and conform their lives thereto.

In speaking or writing to members of the Relief Society one is addressing the builders of the homes of our communities and of the Church. Every home has a spirit and that spirit will depend in large measure upon the testimony which the mother has of the divinity of the work in which we are engaged. This emphasizes the importance of her gaining a testimony and under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit guide and direct the affairs of the home and the lives of her children, having in mind always the relationship which exists between the Lord and his children.

In other words, the mother must have great faith—faith in God, faith in herself and in her companion, and faith in the ultimate triumph of righteousness—a faith which ventures beyond knowledge and by which she may be able to meet the tests of practical life and religious experience. She will be guided by intellectual as well as moral imperatives. A mother who has a testimony will, therefore, live a righteous life—one which the children can emulate with safety; the kind of life which is inspired and directed by the Holy Ghost, whose companionship she will constantly seek.

Of course the knowledge which the mother gains in her search for a testimony will be most helpful in her presiding over her home. But that knowledge must be observed and incorporated into the daily life of those concerned. He who knows the precepts and neglects to obey them is like one who lights a candle in the darkness and then closes his eyes.

725