[Vol56 | February | Magazine Page 109 | PDF Page 110]

--- PAGE 109 (PDF page 110) ---
February 1969

skirt, that will leave enough material for the bottom ruffle."

I did everything I could to help. While Mama was cutting out the newspaper pattern I built up the fire and put the flatiron on, set up the ironing board and got the machine out, and, by the time Mama had the pattern ready, the material was pressed and the scissors and thread were at her fingertips. Mama wouldn't cut paper with her good scissors.

I heard Jennie and Lucy coming to the house crying, but I couldn't take a deep breath until Mama actually cut into the material.

"Mama, we're scared of the old hen," Jennie wept.

"Goodness, child. What have you been doing all this time? You've been gone long enough for her to be ready to hatch."

"Just looking at the old hen," Lucy wept. "She ruffled her feathers at us and scolded."

Mama was rising to help them, but I interceded. "I'll help them, Mama."

"All right," she said, and went back to her sewing. "Callie," she added, just as I was going out the door, "Get the wheelbarrow and put that fertilizer on my flower bed." I knew it!

"Yes, Mama," I said. "Can I do it after lunch? I'll get lunch and get the baby to sleep." I didn't wait for an answer.

Secretly I was afraid of the old hen, too, but didn't dare show Jennie and Lucy. I didn't just help them; I took a firm grip on the hen's back feathers, avoiding her beak, and lifted her off the nest. Jennie hurried up and put the eggs in and we got out of there. She was fussing around setting on them, pecking each egg under her feathers as if they were already hatched into baby chicks. I liked her for it.

"I can't wait for the baby chickens," said Lucy.

"You'll have to watch Lalla that she doesn't love them to death."

I hurried back to the house, and none too soon, for Mary was cross and Lalla was crying for her lunch. In another minute Mama would have stopped sewing to take care of them, so I did it.

After lunch I sat on the little chair and sang Lalla to sleep. By all this managing on my part Mama was ready to try on the underskirt before I did the lunch dishes.

"Did you forget the wheelbarrow?" Mamma asked.

It was safe to leave her now, I thought, with Mary and Lalla asleep. Jennie and Lucy had been given permission to go play with the Jensen children, and I couldn't see a thing to interfere with Mama sewing.

"I'll be just outside if you want me for trying on," I said.

"I declare! I never saw anybody so helpful," answered Mama blandly.

It took quite awhile for me to fertilize the garden. I had meant to protest how heavy the wheelbarrow was for a little girl eleven, but, under the circumstances, I said nothing. I have seen Mama start after chins of a morning and never get back to the house the livelong day. She would feed the chickens, gather the eggs, water the cows and toss them a little feed if the men were at the field, going from one to the other without any previous planning.

110