[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CON-
FERENCE
	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society was held in the Assembly Hall in
Salt Lake City, Saturday Oct. 3, 1896, at 2
p. m., Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presiding.
On the stand were the Vice Presidents
Jane S. Richards, Bathsheba W. Smith
and Sarah M. Kimball, Secretaries E. B.
Wells and R. B. Pratt, several Stake Presi-
dents from a distance occupied the upper
stand, and there was a good sized congre-
gation in the body of the house.
	Conference opened with singing ‘ Re-
deemer of Israel,” prayer by Sister B. W.
Smith, continued by singing “Let us pray
gladly pray.” Roll called, seventeen
Stakes represented. Minutes of previous
Conference read and approved.
	President Zina D. H. Young welcomed
the congregation in a very gracious man-
ner and thanked the brethren who were
present for their presence, felt glad to see
so many from a distance but wished there
was not a vacant seat in the house, urged
the sisters to do all in their power to get
the members to attend their local meetings,
felt we needed the Spirit of the Lord to be
constantly with us, not only do we need it
every hour but all the time. Related
some instances of sublime faith in children;
referred to a dream of Patriarch John
Young about a looking glass in which
one’s neighbor’s faults were magnified, ad-
vised all to follow the teachings of Joseph
the Prophet and pray night and day to the
Lord for guidance.
	President Adeline H. Barber of the Cache
Stake Relief Society spoke against mumur-
ing, referred to the recent high wind, said
it occured immediately after a woman’s
meeting in which the sisters had complain-
ed so much of hard times; reported good
work done in the Society and a good feeling
generally, and beautifully of Temple work.
President Hakes of Maricopa Stake, rep-
resented the Relief Society work in that
locality for his wife who could not come
because of financial difficulties, and had
asked him to report. Spoke very interest-
ingly of the labors of the sisters in that
part of the vineyard. 
	Lorinda E. Thompson of the Board of
Millard Relief Society gave an excellent
account of the sisters in that Stake and of
the President, Elizabeth Yates, and alluded
to the distressing sickness (Diphtheria) that
had prevailed at Scipio, out of one hun-
dred cases, however, only eight had died,

[Column 2]
all the others had recovered, which seemed
remarkable.
	President Emma J. Bennett, Relief Soci-
ety Bingham Stake gave a very favorable
report, referred to the willingness of the
brethren to assist the sisters in their labors
and to go with them when visiting the
Stakes spoke highly of the country, they
had rich ranches and lovely fields of grain;
of the union which prevailed among them,
all being in harmony; sisters would come
eight or ten miles to attend Conferences,
and bring babies with them; made some
remarks on the Word of Wisdom and the
blessings attending those who kept it. 
	Temperance Hinckley President of Re-
lief Society of Bannock Stake, spoke of the
disadvantages they labored under in having
such long distances to travel by team to
visit the Stake she and her Counselors
had visited all around recently, felt to do
all in her power and reported a good and
united feeling among the sisters in the
Stake knew they were charitable and
humble and were desirous of doing their
duty they were always ready to assist the
Bishops in relieving the poor and in every
good word and work for Zion.
	President Mary A. P. Hyde, Relief Soci-
ety Sanpete Stake, spoke of having just re-
turned from a Quarterly Conference in that
county and of the good feeling that exist
ed among the Saints, spoke very feelingly
of the loss by death of her two Counselors
during the present year, Sisters Minerva
W. Snow and Sarah A. Peterson, and of
the strong attachment that had existed
between them, but realized they were bet-
ter off and that they would not wish to re-
turn here. Two other Counselors had
since been appointed and she felt that they
would be faithful in the position to which
they had been called and set apart. They
were Sisters Alvira L. Cox and Abbie
Shoemaker. Sister Hyde felt blest in ber
ing able to attend the Conference and
hearing the good reports from the sisters.
	President Ann C. Woodbury of the Re-
lief Society of St. George Stake, spoke of
the great losses sustained in that locality
by floods, but did not feel discouraged but
hopeful, thought their faith and union had
ncreased of late. The sisters generally had.
to pay for teams to go around the Stake,
the distances they had to travel in visiting
all around were considerable; her advice
had been to put their financial women in
the front so they could make means to
sustain the poor and for such other purposes
as means was needed for, thought there
was a prospect now of a railroad coming
and then they would have a market for
their produce; last year the people there
had large crops of grain and disposed of it
too readily, this year the crops would be
light, scarcity would make them more
careful in the future; thought as a people,
we were greatly blest in comparison with
the nations of the earth, for this she prais-
ed the God of Jacob who had blessed us
and kept us “and will bless us and keep
us if we will serve Him.” Sister Wood-
bury spoke earnestly of the silk industry;
the sisters there had pushed the work for-
ward this year, there had been two hundred
pounds of cocoons raised there this season,
and it would be a great help to them; she
had been working in the interst of the silk
industry for eighteen years trying to ac-
complish something and realized that if
it would not be of any benefit to her, it
would in the future to the children, and


