EDITORIAL NOTES

	IN consequence of the mass meeting of
ladies which will be held in the Theatre on
the 31st of this month, the annual meeting
of the Utah Woman’s Press Club will be
held on Wednesday the 28th. All members
should be present as new officers will be
elected. An interesting time is anticipated,
as each member is expected to appear in
character and give a selection from the
character represented.
	THE Kindergarten Autumn tea at Dr.
E. R. Shipp's handsome parlors on Oct. 15,
was a genuine success, socially it was ex-
ceedingly pleasant, and the music and other
exercises were fine. Mrs. Lizzie Thomas
Edwards song was highly appreciated, she
was in excellent voice, and the association
feels very grateful to her, and to Prof. Mc-
Clellan, the accompanist also Professor
Schettler with his guitar, and to all who in
any way contributed to the success of the
entertainment. The Autumn leaves and
flowers as decorations were most charming-
ly arranged. Mrs. Shipp and her lovely
daughters made every one feel welcome,
also the other ladies who so kindly and
gracefully assisted in receiving.
	ON Monday evening the 9th of Novem-
ber the Rev. Anna H. Shaw will give a
lecture in the large Tabernacle in this city.
Miss Shaw’s great ability, her versatility
and popularity as a celebrated lecturer is so
universally known, that it is hoped the
building will be filled to its utmost capaci-


ty; especially as the object of the lecture 
is to raise means for the Kindergartens in
this city, which are doing such effective
work for the children. Miss Shaw will be
on her homeward journey after her cam-
paign work for equal suffrage in California,
and only comes here to speak at the solicita-
tion of the women who are laboring so
faithfully to establish Kindergartens and
make them a permanent institution in Utah.
Miss Shaw will be accompanied by the
party of Eastern women who have been
assisting in the great campaign throughout
the State of California.
	MISS MARY GREW, who died very sud-
denly (October 10,) at her residence in
Philadelpha, was a most remarkable char-
acter. She was born in Hartford Conn.,
Sep. 1, 1813, and was educated there; she
removed to Boston in 1837, and afterwards
to Philadelphia her permanent residence
ever since. By inheritance and training
she was a radical abolitionist and was
associated with and co-operated in that
work with the heroic men who took so
prominent a part in that early period, Wm.
Loyd Garrison, Wendell Philips and others.
She was a member of the Boston Female
Anti-Slavery Society from its organization,
and after her removal to Philadelphia unit-
ed with the Anti-Slavery Society there
and was its Cor. Sec’y., and wrote its
annual reports until 1870, when the Society
disbanded. She was a member of the fa-
mous Anti-Slavery Convention in 1838, in
Pennsylvania Hall, when it was surround-
ed by a furious mob which destroyed the
building by fire a few hours after the Con-
vention adjourned. After Slavery was
abolished and the 15th amendment to the
Constitution ratified, she devoted her life
to other reforms, principally the enfran-
chisement of women. She was a very
forcible lecturer and an occasional preacher in
the pulpits of the Unitarian churches; and
in Northern New England the pulpits of
the Free Will Baptists, Methodists and
Congregational churches were open to her.
Miss Grew was one of the founders of
the New Century Club of Philadelphia,
said to be the most influential club in the
United States, and also of the Pennsyl-
vania Woman’s Suffrage Association, and
its President for many years.


