IN MEMORIAM.

	DIED—At Pleasant Grove, Utah, Aug. 5, 1896,
Margaret Foutz, daughter of David and Mary
Mun. Born December 11, 1801 in Franklin
county, Pa. Married to Jacob Foutz July 22,
1823, husband and wife joined the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in 1834, in Ohio.
They gathered with the Saints in the land of Mo.
and settled on Crooked River in Caldwell County.
They passed through the terrible persecutions
which the Saints endured in that land. They
were in the bloody slaughter at Haun’s mill where
some eighteen persons were killed out-right and
many others wounded, her husband with others
were huddled together in a blacksmith’s shop
and shot down, he being severly wounded drew
some of his dead companions over him and feign-
ed himself dead when the murderous mob stripped
their victims; he thus saved his life. They were
expelled from the state of Mo. to Illinois, and
gathered with the Saints at Nauvoo, where her
husband was Bishop of one of the wards; they
helped to build up that place and endured all the
trials and labors incident thereto, and were again
driven in the general exodus into the wilderness
by the hand of persecution. They arrived in
Salt Lake valley in the fall of 1847, to make a
home and living in the Desert Wilderness with
short rations and little means to begin with. The
next summer she lost her husband; he died at a
time when the people were mostly subsisting on
roots and greens she was left with a large family
and scant means. She settled in Pleasant Grove
in 1851 where she resided ever after. She had
twelve children, seventy grandchildren, one
hundred and twenty-six great grandchildren and
nine great great grandchildren. Two sons and
three daughters survive her. She was an inces- 
sant worker till within a few weeks of death; She
was a devoted mother and faithful in her religi-
ous duties and highly respected by all who knew
her. She died in full faith of the Gospel and
hope of a glorious Resurrection.
					SARAH A. FOUTZ.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	RESOLUTIONS adopted by the officers and
members of the Springville Second ward Relief
Society in memory of Sister Hannah Harrison,
who died after a lingering illness September 15;
1896, at Springville, Utah. She was born at
Warrington, Lancashire, England, July 18, 1817
	When only nineteen she married William Har-
rison. Five years later she received the Gospel,
and was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-day Saints, in February 1838. At the
time it was so cold that her shoes became frozen
to the bank of the stream and she had to walk
home in her stockings.
	She emigarted to Utah in 1856, and was one of
the honored hand-cart company. When Utah
was reached the family moved direct to Spring-
ville where she has lived until her death, surviv-
ing her husband fifteen years.
	Sister Harrison has been an active publicwork-
er, was first counselor in the first Relief Society of
Springville and has been one of its members over
twenty-six years. Ever has she borne a faithful
testimony to the cause of her life’s devotion. Be
it therefore
	RESOLVED, That as our Heavenly Father has
taken our noble and faithful sister to her heaven-
ly home, we herewith express our sympathy for
her children and grand children. Be it further
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be placed
on the records of the Society and a copy be sent
to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
