A BRILLIANT WEDDING.

	MISS FLORENCE D. ALDER and Elder
Cornelius Schettler were united in marriage
on Wednesday, Oct. 7. at 12 M in the
Salt Lake Temple, Bishop J. R. Winder
officiating in the ceremony. The bride is
the daughter of George and Lydia D.
Alder, well known residents of this city.


and a very popular young lady. The
bridegroom is the son of B. H. and Mary
Schettler (B. H. Schettler is widely known
in business circles) and the bridegroom
has only recently returned from a mission
to Germany, where he also paid some
special attention to music for which he has
fine talent. He was highly complimented
on his instrumental work by learned musi-
cians in Berlin, Germany, where he labored
as a missionary.
	The reception at the residence of the
bride’s parents in the evening was a bril-
liant affair, and was numerously attended.
The spacious parlors were artistically decor-
ated with flowers, smilax and Autumn
leaves, and the happy couple who stood
in the bay window under the beautiful
floral decorations looked radiantly happy
in their new role. Miss Irene Schettler and
little Miss May Alder were the brides-
maids and Wm. McEwan and Ernest
Schettler stood at the right of the bride-
groom, and assisted in receiving the guests
and shared in the congratulations and
compliments, as did the bridesmaids.
	The wedding presents from relatives and
friends were mostly useful articles though
many of them were elegant, among the
gifts was a large Bible presented by the Y.
L. M. I. A. of the Second ward, with the
bride’s name in gilt letters, and inside
the autograph of each of the young girls of
the association. The Bible was given as an
expression of love and appreciation to one
who had been their secretary for several
years, and was a very appropriate gift.
	With the many warm friends of the new-
married couple we extend our hearty con-
gratulations, and wish them Bon voyage
on the great sea of life, and trust their
highest expectations of happiness may be
fully realized.


