PRESS ASSOCIATION.

	THE Pacific Coast Woman's Press
Association has for its object (so says its
constitution) “the promotion of acquaintance,
good fellowship and co-operation among
the women writers this coast, and the
advancement of their professional interests.” 
All women are eligible tor active member-
ship, who are engaged professionially in
journalism— that is to say who write for
pay—and all who are engaged in literary
work, or in illustrating the same. All wo-
men who are simply interested in literary
or artistic work, and willing to labor for
the welfare of the association, are eligible
for associate membership. We have cer-
tainly thrown open the doors widely
enough, and a goodly number have come
in, among whom are some eminent names.
In the promotion of goodfellowship we
have enjoyed, and we believe conferred
much genuine pleasure.
	As to the work a press association should
do, there has been some variance of opinion
—a variance broadened by actual or rumor-
ed criticisms offered by our older associa-
tions composed entirely of men. For my-
self, I will remark just here, that because
we do our work in a way somewhat dif-
ferent to men, it is not necessarily inferior
to men’s work. The difference in work
and methods is a matter of environment
quite as much as of natural tendencies.
Men have fewer ever present cares than
women in the ranks of press writers. The
member of a men’s association usually is,
or assumes to be, only a press man, while-
the press woman frequently has besides
her literary work a school, a business or a
household on her hands. Even the enjoy-
ment of the stated meeting is marred by
the apprehension of a late dinner. The
man who has had the whole day to devote
to an article or articles on these subjects
which are plainly brought before him by
his associations has a great advantage over
the women, who while seeking to do a cer-
tain thing is distracted by having to give
her thoughts to affairs entirely foreign to
it.
	“Very well,” you say, “just that dif-
ference makes the man’s work superior”—
as in fact it might very reasonably do, and
without dispute frequently does do. Men
are in daily contact with the world’s great-
er affairs, or those which they choose to
consider greater; as questions of municipal
or national government, of our foreign
relations, of tariff reforms, or of “sixteen
to one.” But while they are struggling
with problems of shall we, or shall we not
have a double standard for money, women
handicapped as they are by a multiplici-
ty of cares are carrying on a campaign in-
tended to bring about a single standard in
morals. The question might, though it
should not be, raised, as to the comparative
mportance of the two aims; but it must ‘
be admitted that women have achieved
much of value to society in the narrow
sphere of activities, and in spite of a long

[Column 2]
and determind oppositions from the mascu-
line portion.
	About specialists—it has been objected
by some that we, as a Press Association
cannot with dignity lend ourselves to the
endorsements or even to the considerations
of  special subjects outside of the profes-
sion of literature. This is being in a way,
as narrow as those associations which ex-
clude everything but newspapers from
press work. How shall we better become
journalists, if that is our aim, than by dis-
cussion of the questions that relate to good
citizenship, of the progress of the race?
Yet I have been made unpleasantly aware
that on a recent occasion when a gentleman
who had been invited to address us on the
Silver Question, failed to keep his appoint-
ment, and the High Priestess of Woman
Suffrage who was present, kindly consent-
ed to fill the intellectual vacuum, there
was much dissatisfaction manifested. The
venerable woman before us declined to dis-
cuss silver because as she said she knew
“nothing about it except that she had never
had enough of of it,” but she gave us a
timely talk about things which deeply con-
cern women, and imparted to us facts
gathered from a lifetime of work in her
chosen field. The objectors declared that
suffrage speeches were not in order in a
Press Association; yet they were eager to
hear about silver and gold. What a fasci-
nating subject is money! Some one has
forcibly said that “Gold is the only idol
that is worshiped in all lands without a
temple, and by all sects without hypocri-
cy.”
	Why were we not prepared to close the
gap in our program for ourselves by a free
discussion of the popular religion of gold,
which is prefered to liberty? The news-
papers and magazines are teeming with
articles on the subject. Connot we get
as much out of this literature about money
as would enable us to discuss it? But not
having done so should we not—and cer-
tainly the majority of us did—thank the
woman who was prepared on another great
question to speak to us?
	What I desire to impress upon the
Association is that while we are in spirit
and effect a literary body, we must not be
too wholly literary, but that our best inter-
ests lie in the pursuit of practical infor-
mation. There must be a well developed
idea before there can be a literary product
of any value. While we analyze standard
authors, review new ones, or entertain
each other with our own performances in
prose and verse, we cannot afford to con-
fine ourselves to these dines. If, for in-
stance, instead of this we call upon our
kindergarteners to give us an illustrated
talk upon their methods of teaching; upon
our public-school teachers to enlighten us
on the merits and defects in the methods
pursued in the city schools; upon our art-
ists for a technical explanation of the art of
illustration; upon our professor of Botany
for a lesson in science, with an account of
her field work; upon our gifted astron-
omer for a prose-poem describing the fields
of heaven in which she labors while we


