A LETTER OF SYMPATHY.

	Mrs. A. S. Rogers.
Dear Sister:
	As Primary officers in monthly meeting
assembled October 2, we feel to offer you
our heartfelt sympathy in this your double
bereavement of your sister and husband;
but more especially do we condole with
you in the loss of of the former, because
she was our beloved President and co-labor-
er, whom to know was to love. But yours
dear sister, was naturally the keener smart;
are you not woven in each other’s lives?
You hung on each other’s necks in deep sor-
row and in bitter trial.
	We can hardly think of you without
glancing over your past history. While
you were suffering the pangs of maternal
bereavement and paternal absence and en-
during mob violence, we on Europe’s far-
off shores were blessed with precious pres-
ence and wise counsel of that loving father
and bereaved husband who was for the
time being, as it were, torn from his tender
flock to fill the important mission of presid-
ing over the British Isles. And though a
little child at the time we well remember a
song being composed expressive of the love
and esteem in which he was held by the
English Saints. In said song he was desig-
nated “ Faithful One.” 
	What an honor to be the children of
such a father and a martyred mother!
	Think you not that the Lord watched
over the little flock of those sainted par-
ents and will reward those who suffer-in
His righteouness? yea verily !
	And while your heart is wrung with
sorrow which cannot be healed in this life,
Ellen’s heart is filled with unbounded joy;
for as it was said to your father on leaving
his great field of labor “Faithful one, faith-
ful one, welcome him home,” so shall
it be said to his dear daughter as she is
folded in the arms of her parents in that
happy home of which it is said,
	“And God shall wipe away all tears, from
their eyes; and there shall be no more death
neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be


any more pain; for the former things are passed
away.—Rev., 21st chap., 4th verse.
				CAMILLA C. COBB,
				LYDIA ANN WELLS,
