[Column 1]
sleep; upon those consecrated women who
while their names are upon our roll, are
devoting their lives to the rescue of the
young and unwary, and the betterment of
conditions of the poor in our own and other
cities—we should be constantly gaining
that kind of information for which every
writer, and especially every editor has a
practical use.
	When we have an outing or participate
in the outing of other organizations should
we not feel to discover something to write
up, which would be a just return for the
courtesies we have enjoyed as well as a
contribution to our own stock of ideas.
	The Pacific Coast Woman's Press
Association by its earlier efforts brought
together on this Coast about one hundred
and fifty women of similar tastes and as-
pirations who, else would have known
little or nothing of each other. Aside from
the social pleasures derived from a personal
acquaintance, the numerical strength of the
new association was a triumph. It gave
intellectual women, isolated in various
parts of the country that faith in themselves
which was a much needed support.
	Although since that time the far south-
ern members have for convenience formed
a separate association, while some have re-
moved to wider fields of employment in
the East; and while a few have passed from
the labor of living to the unspeakable peace
of the Beyond, there are still over a hun-
dred in the present organization.
	If there had not been a Pacific Coast
Woman’s Press Association in existence,
much that was of interest to our women
would have been unrepresented at the
World’s Columbian Exposition, and there
would have been no Woman’s Congress in
California. Taking advantage of the
opportunity offered by the Mid-Winter
Fair in this State, the Association proposed
and affected the great undertaking whose
outcome was a surprise to everyoue in the
quality of the intellectual work done. I do
not mean to convey the impression that the
Congress was composed mainly of
members of the Association, but only
that it was projected and carried to consum-
mation by the efforts of certain of the most
prominent press women. The Congress
itself was a thoroughly representative body,
drawn from all parts of the coast, who
came together by invitation to express
themselves on a great variety of subjects.
The manner in which they acquitted them-
selves was a revelation to most people, dis-
covering, as it did, a latent power until
then unsuspected,
	I remember being much surprised by a
remark of the Evening Post reporter at the
close of the second day, that the women
“might have done this before if they had
only known it.” They know it now, and
they are never going back to the silence
and isolation of their former lives.
	Out of that special congress grew the
Woman’s Congress Association of the Pa-
cific Coast, which holds annual sessions. Its
Executive Board and Auxiliary Committee
are composed largely of the Press Associa-
tion. On its floor thoughtful women of all
ranks in life, of all religious creeds, of
every degree of culture, meet upon perfect
equality to give and receive of each others
best. Many decaying walls of prejudice
and usage have fallen which can never
again be erected, leaving a clear field for
future progress in all directions.
	As a proof of this, behold the great ad-

[Column 2]
vance which the suffrage movement receiv-
ed by allying itself with the Woman’s Con-
gress. Not that all the members of this
association, or the Congress Association are
Woman Suffragists—some of both are op-
posed to the ballot for women—but that
the congress gave an opportunity for that
fair debate which women in the past were
not allowed. It cannot be otherwise than
that this enlargement of our liberties shall
continue to broaden our intellectual view,
and with it the horizon of our souls. We
shall ultimately, too, come to get our opin-
ons by thinking, rather than as Mrs.
Browning says men get their’s, and boys
learn to spell, “by reiteration chiefly.”—
the reiteration of other peoples opinions,
which they also had adopted in the same
way. The world never did and never will
advance one step except by liberty in
thought. Let us therefore not fear to think
too freely, while we act discreetly. Some-
where between slavish submission, and ex-
cessive resistance to popular prejudices, the
real truth will be found.
	It is my hope and my belief that the
Pacific Coast Press Association has before it
a future even more useful than its past, but
should it not again find so happy a con-
junction of circumstances, it has done
enough to have made a place in history.
	I could not close this paper which from
its too specific nature I fear may have prov-
en wearisome to our guests, without ex-
pressing my conviction that no member
who has been, or may be compelled to sever
her connection with the association but
feels genuine regret at having to separate
from us. Although not to be mentioned
as of importance the social features of our
organization are sufficient to compensate
the members for any trifling sacrifices that
may be made in its interest. Its social
meetings and outings are marked by the
unconventional and cordial goodfellowship
which is one of the stated objects of our
union. There is talent enough amongst
ourselves, could we combine it, to enter-
tain our friends right royally; but usually
we have gone out into the highway and
brought in our friends to entertain us; per-
haps because we were fearful of not having
that “infinite variety” which “custom
cannot stale,” and prefered to withdraw
ourselves from view. If we have been too
literary to dance we have still piped and
sung, told stories and laughed at them,
cracked jokes and propounded riddles, im-
provised songs and by sharp concussion
struck sparks of wit from the flintiest of
us—in fact indulged in that mild sort of
high jinks which a woman's press associa-
tion might with propriety allow itself. To
all those who whether as hotel managers,
real estate or transportation companies,
have contributed to our pleasure from year
to year in the past, our grateful acknowl-
edgements are rendered, as also for that
which we are to enjoy this year.
	Nor could I close this paper without
voicing the sentiment of regret which I
am sure prevails among us, that rotation in
office while it gives us the officers of our
choice, retires those whom we have learned
to admire and love, not only for faithful-
ness to duty, but for their many charms of
person and character. There is, however,
this compensating feature with rule, that it
brings distinctly before us group after
group, giving us finally a thorough under-
standing of the whole. To our gracious
retiring president, and to each one who

[Column 3]
vacates her office this year, is extended our
heartfelt good will and affection. 
