JOURNEYING IN DIXIE.

Dear Sister Wells:
	I THOUGHT a few lines from this part
might interest the readers of the EXPO-
NENT.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, her coun-
selor Emma Morris, of the Relief Society
and Mary G. Whitehead, of the Primary
Association of St. George Stake of Zion,
left St George to visit the Western settle-
ments, Sep. 1, 1896, arriving at Price Val-
ley after traveling over a very rough road,
at 4 p. m. held a meeting with the Pri-
mary Association and, had a very nice
meeting well attended by parents and
children. In the evening held a meeting
with the Relief Society. Bishop Mower met
with us and spoke words of encouragement
to the sisters. Here we found Rosena
Jarvis, President of Y. L. M. I. A.; she 
had been holding meetings in some of the
settlements. The morning of the 2nd we
met with the young ladies and had an ex-
cellent meeting. This is a lovely valley
and the scriptures are fulfilled in the say-
ing that Zion should be established in the tops
of the mountains. We left the sisters of Price
Valley feeling well and arrived at Pinto and
held a meeting with the Relief Society at 3
p. m. Here the sisters generally turned
out, we had a nice time. At 5 p. m. we
met with the children of the Primary.
Here the children are a credit to any settle-
ment. In the evening we met with the
young ladies and had an excellent meet-
ing, in fact we had a time long to be re-
membered
	Sep. 3, we went on to Hamblin and ap-
pointed a meeting to be held on our return
trip. We reached Hebron and held a gen-
eral meeting in the evening. Bishop Holt
who is a live bishop encouraged us with his
presence and also set an example to the
young men that they did not fail to imi-
tate; had a very good meeting. We went
to Sister Terry’s ranch and spent the
night. The 4th we traveled to Clover,
held a general meeting at 4 o’clock; on
the 5th we left the little settlement of
Clover and arrived at Panacca met the genial
Bishop Charles Reno who made us very
welcome. We met with the Relief Society
in the evening; owing to the storm we had
a slim attendance at the meeting. Sunday
the 6th we met with the Sabbath school;

[Column 2]
after the sacrament had been administered
Superintendent Arthur Lee turned the
meeting over to Sister Whitehead of the
Primary. We had an interesting time here,
there was a housefull of very lovely child-
ren. In the evening we held meeting with
the young ladies, Miss Alice Tindley is
president. The young men were invited
in, a Mr. Osborn an editor from Pioche
also met with us. We left Panacca on the
7th, arrived at Sister Terry’s ranch,  had
supper and went to Hebron for the night.
On the 8th we started for Hamblin, held
a meeting at noon, organized a Primary,
had a good time, had dinner with our old
friend Sister Campfield, traveled on to
Pinto, found Bishop Knell very sick. We
left Pinto and arrived in Grass Valley in
time to hold an evening meeting with the
people and organize a Young Ladies
Association. Here we found a nice place
and a progressive people. They have the
advancement of children at heart. The 9th
we left Grass Valley for St. George feeling
we had done some good in urging the
people to their duties.
	Ever praying for the welfare of Zion, I
remain your sister in the Gospel
