MODERATION AND SELF-CONTROL.

	THE peculiar phases of circumstances
and the environments of the present time
especially in regard to political matters call
for sound judgment and sane-thinking on
the part of all men and women who are de-
sirous of good to the community in which
they reside, or the commonwealth of which
that community is a component part. The
extremes that seem to be a natural conse-
quence of the general excitement can scarce-
ly result in anything but disaffection and
bitterness among the people when all is
over, unless more kindly sentiments and
better methods of campaigning prevail.
Conservative people are considered wanting
in the enthusiasm necessary to carry the
vital questions to a satisfactory result.
Women who form a large part of the vot-
ing population here in Utah have been in
most instances exceedingly modest and un-
prouounced, and it seems in keeping with
the situation. It is comparatively new to
them and some of the conditions this year
are also new to men, consequently caution
is more essentially needful. However, it
has been positively necessary some of the
real work should be done by women, and a
few have been willing to accept the re-
sponsibility and do the actual work without
remuneration or expectation of reward ex-
cept what may come in the beneficial re-
sults that may accrue to all, and the satis-
faction of doing one’s duty. Women the
world over are considered peace-makers
and in the present state of affairs, such
helpfulness as they can render in promot-
ing harmony should certainly be exercised
for the good of all concerned. Women
should assuredly hold themselves above
party feeling and seek for the highest
good of all concerned, and we believe this
is the general idea among the women who
have taken a prominent part in public
matters.
	The eyes of the nation are upon the wo-
men of Utah, and especially in this first
election which is so important because of
the complications that have arisen on the
monetary question. Men strong in the
party to which they have been allied for
years have dissolved their connection with
it and gone over to the opposite party; thus
it does not seem strange if women coming
into practical politics at such a trying time
should be criticised and perchance make
some mistakes.

[Column 2]
	The experiment (as most people call it) 
of nominating women to office and of wo-
men holding office is new except in rare
instances; though in Wyoming women
have been doing duty in positions of emol-
ument and trust for twenty-five years. No
complaints of inability or indifference to the
interest of the public are reported; only a
small number of women are likely to occu-
py public offices for some time to come al-
though men seem somewhat doubtful upon
the matter. If more good and competent
women would attend the Primaries and
Conventions and take part in the proceed-
ings, it would doubtless have a good effect.
	The dissatisfaction of the public mind
has reached such a stage that matters will
not be settled by the election of a Presi-
dent, however acceptable it may be to the
toiling masses, the working people and to
the nation in general. It will take some
time and great wisdom to adjust affairs so
complicated and bring men and women to
that stage of feeling of security, that will
inspire confidence and promote good fellow-
ship instead of the discord that prevails
largely at the present.
	The nomination of a few women for the
Legislature shows the liberality of some
honorable men who realize the justice of
equal suffrage. It is most desirable that
these few women should be in every respect
capable of doing the work which will be
expected at their hands, for should there be
any lack or indifference on their part, it
would have a direct bearing on any aspir-
ant for office forever after. For the good
of the cause and the advancement of all
who are to come after to fill the places
where woman’s work will be effective, the
women of today should help to make these
new beginners firm and strong that they
may indeed be helpful to the state. None
of those who follow will have so much
criticism, as these who lay the foundation
of the new departure in woman’s emancipa-
tion.
	In Salt Lake County two women have
been nominated for the Senate and two for
the House and one for County auditor.
	In Davis County one woman has been
nominated for the Senate, in Weber County
one for County recorder also in Box Elder,
and one in Millard Co. for the same office,
two in Kane County for county offices, and
perhaps these are not all. After long years
of patient waiting women are coming to a
realization of some of the fruits of their
labors in the opportunities offered them for
broader culture and higher aims, and if in
the meantime moderation and self-control
are properly exercised, what great achieve-
ments may we not expect in good govern-
ment and better conditions of society when
all the people instead of one half take part
even in local matters.
	Yet one interested in the welfare of Utah
must not lose sight of the present condi-
tions, but stand for pure and righteous
principles of justice and equity to all
whatever betides; be valiant and upright,
and true to one's own conscience.


