WAYNE STAKE.
	THE Relief Society of the Wayne Stake
held their Conference in the Blue Valley
meeting house Aug 24, 1896, President J.S.
Coleman presiding. Singing, prayer by
Patriarch F. W. Young, continued by sing-
ing. Roll called, minutes of the previous
Conference were read and approved. Presi-
dent J.S. Coleman was pleased to meet with
the sisters again, said we should deem it a
great privilege to be members of the Relief
Society, encouraged the young ladies to at-
tend the Relief Society also parents to at-
tend the Sunday school and Primary meet-
ings and gave other good instruction, pray-
ed the spirit of the Lord to be with all
during the Conference. Statistical and
financial report was then read.
	The Teasdale, Grover, Caineville and
Giles Relief Societies were then reported by
their several presidents, were all in good
condition and doing well. Sisters Sarah
Rust and Agnes Woleman spoke a short
time. President J. S. Coleman was pleased
to hear the good reports given by each of
the presidents, advised the sisters to plant
mulberry trees on the Relief Society lots.
	President William Paxman of Juab Stake
spoke very encouragingly to the sisters,
spoke of the aid they were to the Bishop
in relieving the poor etc., prayed the Lord
to bless the sisters in their good work 
	President W. E. Robison of the Wayne
Stake was pleased to note the rapid pro-
gress the sisters of Wayne Stake were
making, endorsed the remarks of the sisters
and also those of President William Pax-
man. President Paxman testified that
Apostle Teasdale had promised him great
blessings on his journey and they had all
been fulfilled for which he thanked the
Lord. Elder Joseph Eckersby also testified
that the Spirit of God had attended the
Conference and gave other good instruction.
Conference adjourned for six months.
Singing, benediction by President H.
M. Hanson.
			ANNIE COLEMAN, Sec.
 [Reported by Mary Jane Wilson.]
ONEIDA STAKE.
	WE held our Quarterly Conference at
Eranklin on Sep. 8, with a pretty good at-
tendance. We had as visitors Sister Jane
S. Richards of the general Presidency, and
Sister Stevens, both of Ogden, President
Julia Lindsey of the Bear Lake Stake,
President Adeline H. Barber of the Cache
Stake, Stake President George C. Parkin-
son, also the local Stake Presidency and
many presidents of branches. Much good
instruction was given and although the
weather was cold and rainy we had a most
enjoyable time.
	Sister Barber had with her samples of
silk which had been raised by the sisters in
the Cache Stake, which proved beyond a
doubt that silk is a natural production
of these Western states, and only awaits
development to become a source of wealth.
	Just before the afternoon session of Con-
ference was dismissed Mrs. Mary C. C.

[Column 2]
Bradford of Denver, Col., was announced.
She came to the stand, was introduced and
made a few remarks on the nature of her
labors among the people and announced
that she would lecture in the meeting house
that evening at 7.30. At the appointed
time she delivered a brilliant lecture, show-
ing by facts instead of theory the benefit to
be derived from women receiving the right
ot the franchise. At the close of the meet-
ing she organized an Equal Suffrage Club,
with sixty-three members. She also visit-
ed Malad, Weston, Preston, Cifton and
Oxford, and organized clubs in these towns
and from there she went by train to Black-
foot Idaho. She is intending to labor for
the best interest of woman suffrage in this
state up to the election. The Legislature
has granted an amendment and it was left
to voters whether the women of Idaho shall
have the ballot or not. We all feel
encouaged.
	Mrs. M. C. Athey, State Cor. Sec. of
Boise, Idaho, writes, “ Let us give a hard
pull, a long pull and a pull altogether
and we shall see a splendid victory this
fall.”
