[Column 1]
grandchildren of those who were laboring
in its establishment.
	President Mary John, of the Relief Soci-
ety of Utah Stake, spoke of the large num-
ber of branches in that Stake of Zion, thirty
three and all doing well; the poor were
well looked after, none suffering, referred to
some instances when on account of death and
misfortune whole families were dependent;
realized the Relief Society had been a great
school in which many important lessons were
learned; referred to the bountiful harvest
and thought the sisters should be on the
alert and store up more grain during this
year. Spoke most encouragingly concern-
ing the Free Kindergarten in Provo, said,
"We have started it and we feel we shall
make a success of it eventually, feel assur-
ed of it, of having a free kindergarten in
each ward; children in these schools are
taught such nice manners, and to be so
kind and gentle, let me advise all mothers
arid grandmothers to encourage these
schools.”
	President Elizabeth Fox of Oneida Stake
rejoiced to see the sisters from the North,
the South, the East and West come to the
Conference and enjoy the privileges of the
teaching and the spirit of the Gospel. In
that Stake they experienced some difficulty
in getting teams especially to go long dis-
tances; spoke about wheat and the need
there was and would be of grain in times
to come, as yet had no granary but hoped
to do better in the future; spoke of the
good work many of the aged sisters had
done, and the hardships they had borne.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young made a few
remarks and opened out upon the subject
of a suitable house for the sisters to meet
in to be owned by the Relief Society. Wo-
men had done so much to help build other
houses for public purposes and to build
Temples, and when the President of the
Stake, C. O. Card, lacked the means to go
on with the Logan Temple and the men
were to be discharged because there was no
money to pay them, Sister Jane S. Rich-
ards raised five hundred dollars through the
Relief Society of Weber County to keep the
men working, and it stands as a memento
to the sisters of that Society forever.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball wished she
could do justice to the subject, in what she
wanted to say; in her feelings she felt
humiliated in regard to the failure of the
meeting in the morning. It was under-
stood that we were to have the Hall and
permission had been given, but in conse-
quence of a previous appointment which
had been published the meeting could not
be held. “We need a house of our own,
owned and controlled by the Society, a
house under the shadow of the Temple, a
counterpart of it. We have contributed to
all public places that have been built and
at all times, but we want a house of our
own suitable to the various purposes of
this great organization; we want the land
to build on and it should be near; and a
house with conveniences for you my sisters
Who come from a distance, and where we
are prepared to entertain strangers when
they come; a bureau of information should
be established in it, and a place where let-
ters can be written, and other things of
this kind done that are an adjunct to the
Society. I have only a few minutes and
don’t expect to be here again, the question
is being discussed whether you representa-
tive Women who are here want this build-
ing, and we want to put it to vote.” Sister

[Column 2]
Kimball then told what Joseph Smith had
said to the sisters of the Society in Nauvoo,
and his giving them a lot belonging to the
Church, and that a house was given with it
which could be repaired and made useful;
she then said “I want to ask you sisters if
you want such a building as I have describ-
ed?” The motion was put to the house and
the vote taken and it was unanimous; the
speaker added “If you are alive to this
proposition then see how much can be
done.”
	Sister Zina D. H. Young spoke of the
sisters of Sanpete Stake building their large
hall over the Co-op store in Ephraim, al-
most entirely without money; they contri-
buted all their Sunday eggs, some had
sheep and gave wool etc. and in various
ways raised $600, it was very wonderful;
reminded the sisters to consider the subject.
After singing the doxology the Conference
adjourned until 7.30 p. m. Benediction by
Elder E. John Nuttall.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


