SORRENTO
	Friday, Nov. 29.—After breakfast we
entered our carriages and drove past the
house of Tasso, all embowered in groves
and flowers, on to Castellamar ten miles
away, through the town and on to Pom-
peii. During the drive the volcano was
before us, and watching the smoke it
seemed to twist and coil into every conceiv-
able shape, having heard the saying “It
is the gate of the infernal region,” could
fancy heads and forms and all kinds of
weird things. Pompeii and Herculaneum,
cities of Ancient Italy on the Mediterra-
nean at the foot of Vesuvius, because of
their beautiful location and healthful cli-
mate were much frequented by the wealthy
families of Rome, and in Aug. 79 A. D.
they were completely overwhelmed by the
eruption of Vesuvius. From the entrance
of Pompeii we first visited the Museum
where were the remains of people and the
articles found in the excavations; they esti-
mate 2,000 perished but there are only a few
figures here with many curious things.
Then directly to the Forum where are the
Bosicila or hall of justice, the temple of
Jupiter, the temple of Venus which was
unfinished when the city was destroyed,
the Pantheon and the Triumphal Arch,—

[Column 2]
these ruins are very beautiful. The group
of buildings about the Stabian gate extend-
ed along the side of the Forum, a three
sided space surrounded by Doric portico
and near the Thermal or baths is the elegant
house “Bulwer” makes, the dwelling of
Glaucus, the Tragic Poet. The house of
Sallust, the bakery where were the loaves
of bread. The streets are paved with
blocks of lava, they have stepping stones at
the crossways, and there are deep ruts made
by the chariot wheels. We found they had
a complete sewer system. A private resi-
dence consists of a central room or atrium,
with smaller apartments clustered about
it; those we visited had an open court or
garden behind the Atrium surrounded by
columns and called the peristylium; the
houses had no outlook upon the street and
the rooms on either side the entrance were
rented as shops, and they rolled down the
wooden blinds as they do now. The wall
paintings were of landscape, mythological
figures and scenes from history and daily
life, the mosaic work on the floors were
ornamental designs in black and white, but
in the Casa del Fanno it represented the
Battle of Alexander, and we saw beautiful
mosaic at the houses of the fountains and at
the door or entrance hall of one house, was
a bear in mosaic. In the temple of Isis
our guide pointed out the passage where
the priests used to pass underground to the
statue to answer the questions when the
people appealed to the Oracle. Leaving
the ruins we drove back to Naples.
	Saturday, Nov. 30.—Early breakfast and
the ladies took open carriages for the ex-
cursion to Mt. Vesuvius via Resnia, the
gentlemen going horseback via Pompeii
the ladies could go with them if good
equestrians, but all prefered the drive.
	The last eruption destroye[-] Cooks rail-
way from the end of the carriage road to
the summit of the Cone. So we had a
guide, our manager going with the gentle-
men. The morning was fine, the drive
pleasant, the villas of the rich had high
walls but from the glimpses we had of
them they seemed like Paradise. Outside
were the poor at work, little children seem-
ed to be weaving silk this early, eating dry
bread and maccaroni; they were still at
work when we returned at night, there
seems no happy medium it is affluence or
squalor. Italians were constantly swarm-
ing about the carriages urging us to buy
their wares 15 Lira and coming down three
and four Lira at a time, finishing with
“What will you give Signora?” We were
beseiged with beggars all the way, old and
young, some were repulsive and we avoided
them if possible as we could not benefit them
and they had what we considered capable
of injuring us. One pretty little child ran
after our carriage along a steep hillside for
more than a mile clamoring for "A sou
Signora," until fearing she would be lost
we threw her some, thereby inviting a
number of children to try for more by turn-
ing cartwheels for our amusement. Where
they came from was surprising. I asked
the guide if there was no provision made
for the old and feeble, and he replied,
"Ample, they prefer to beg as they make
more money." As we ascended the
mountain the grandeur of the view increas-
ed; in front was the volcano with its
smoke and down the mountain side from
many crevices streams of bright red lava
were slowly flowing, back of us the Sea
and Islands the water like glass reflected

[Column 3]
the golden splendor of the sun. We came
to the road made over the lava that was
thrown out there years ago, it was not yet
cool, in the crevices we saw blossoms. The
lava becomes black as it cools it forms
great waves and mounds and one side
seemed to form quite a mountain. Our
guide pointed out all places of interest and
the excavations of Herculaneum from which
this or that relic was taken. We stopped
when near Cooks Hotel to feed the horses
and refresh ourselves; our lunch was spread
upon a large table and consisted of bread,
cold ham and chicken, claret and pears and
eaten amidst some merriment. Upon
reaching the hotel we left the carriages
and began to climb for about half a mile
through brush and a little grove of trees,
the air growing hotter and hotter, the
smoke coming nearer. Emerging from
this we found ourselves at the edge of the
internal fires. We all with one acccord
shrank back but a native said to one lady
"Courage mamma and take a look at the
Furnace of the devil, if you come to Vesuv-
ious and don’t see the crater it is like
going to Rome and not seeing the Pope" One
lady remarked "I have seen enough, do
hope it won’t become eruptive while we are
here, it is dreadfully warm." The guide
took me upon the surface of cool lava, it
burnt my shoes and feet and looking up
under this crust was an enormous caldron
of molten lava—it was an appalling sight.
Looking down at my feet there were
crevices and I could see the cool lava was
only about three inches thick, under this
was the awful lake of fire and sulphurous
flames were constantly emitted "See how
thin the crust! It will not break through
Signora or I would not stand here, but if it
did, Presto! you are dead, you will not
sigh you will not moan so soon will it be
over; so take a look to carry with you of
the infernal regions."
	From these crevices the hot lava would
bubble up, cool a little, break off and run
slowly down the mountains. We gave the
natives centimes and they took a pole, dip-
ped it into the molten lava, wound it
around like molasses candy, dropped it
on a rock, put the pennies in, which burned
a blue flame a second or so long enough to
melt the superscription, then became a
black mass which we have as souvenirs.
	Returned to Naples. Next morning the
gentlemen said their trip was most fatigu-
ing the smoke hot, choking and blinding, their
boots burned past wearing and they saw
nothing.
	If the wind is just right it blows away the
smoke, you see the bright prismatic colors
from the crystals of sulphur, alum and
iron and beautiful stalactites.
KIM.


