WEDDING BELLS.

[To my children Florence and Neal.]
Again the wedding bells are ringing
Like low toned voices joyous, singing;— 
Show white flowers they now are bringing,
To deck the fair and stately bride,
Who so sweetly, now is standing
By her dark eyed husband’s side.

Joyous, happy wedding bells!
How much of joy your clanging tells,
While on the air your music swells;
How true is Love, how sweet is Joy!
How pure the heart where these abound
Though care must be the need alloy.

Life joined to life! fast hand in hand,
Wander on through summer’s fairy land,
By soft sweet breezes gently fann’d,
While the stream of Time flows gently on;
By its sloping banks gleams the golden sand,
Kissed by the rays of the noonday sun.

Stand firm together! fierce storms may come;
From loved one’s side O, never roam!
List to the river’s gentle moan!
Onward, onward tho’ change be near;
Be true to love that gently binds,
Though leaves grow yellow, old and sere.

Now lowly at the Altar bending,
Where vows eternal are ascending,
While prayers from loving hearts are wending.
Up to the Majesty on high.
Keep them safe O, Heavenly Father,
Let Thy scourges pass them by.

High noon rolls on a pace,
And on the dial now we trace,
The hour upon its clear-cut face.
The vows are uttered that forever,
Link heart to heart, and life to life,
On earth no more to change or sever.

How grand the Temple and the Vow,
In reverence deep each heart doth bow;
Earthly cares are faded now;
And Peace with white and fluttering wings
Falls on the group assembled there
So far above frail, earthly things.

So solemn bells ring’out the sound!
The love of God doth here abound;
Like burnished gold gleams all around.
Slow from the altar rise the pair,
Who thus have pledged before their God
Each joy and ill of life to share.

Prayer and blessings go together;
In both fair and stormy weather;
Cling to God and never sever,
Though the trial and the cross
Doth crush the heart where now is joy;
'Tis only seeming earthly loss.

No cross, no crown.” Be this thy prayer,
“O, Father give Thy love to share
My heart before Thee now I bare;
O, lead me safe thro’ every storm,
O, never, leave me or forsake
But hold me in Thy love so warm.”

Soon wedding bells will ring again,
The Savior come on earth to reign,
To banish sin and Death and pain,
And wipe the tears from every face,
The Wedding Supper will be spread,
May you my darlings share a place.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
October 7, 1896.


