[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Poem | Title: I Would | Author: Wentworth]
[I Would Follow Thee Mildred Wentworth]
them,  she  knew  she  would  love  that 
name  forever. 
Point  of  View 
Gladys  Hessei  Burn  ham 
Some  folks  think  mountains  hem  one  in. 
Obstruct  a  lengthening  scene, 
Their  rocky  crags  frown  down  in  awe 
To  dwarf  —  almost  demean. 
These  friendly  arms  encircle  me, 
I  lift  my  eyes  to  God; 
Illimitable,  protective  might, 
Their  height's  a  beckoning  rod.

My  Son  Is  on  a  Mission 
Agnes  K.  Morgan 
AS  our  missionary  force  grows,  I  hear  many  mothers  tell  of  their  sons  and  of  their 
places  of  labor.  Then  I  wonder  if  these  other  mothers  share  some  of  the  same 
emotions  and  thoughts  that  are  mine.  When  our  son  left,  I  was  tired,  sad,  and  was 
filled  with  an  immense  feeling  of  regret  for  all  the  things  that  I  had  not  done;  yet, 
I  was  so  very,  very  grateful  for  this  worthy  son.  I  carried  a  quiet  joy  in  my  heart, 
seeking  not  to  be  proud  except  in  gratitude  to  the  Lord  for  such  a  precious  son. 
My  soul  knelt  inside  of  mc  to  thank  my  Father  in  heaven,  while  my  head  was  raised 
high  in  radiance  of  the  joy  of  the  gospel. 
I  was  slow  to  clear  away  things  and  close  his  desk;  slow  to  put  away  the  evi- 
dence of  his  living  here;  reluctant  at  night  to  lock  the  front  door  and  turn  out  the 
lights,  for  I  still  waited  for  the  sound  of  his  car  and  his  arri\'al  home.  I  prepared  good 
family  meals  —  the  number  at  the  table  seemed  small. 
To  sustain  me,  there  was  a  sweeping  gratitude  for  worthy  sons,  for  my  husband 
and  our  other  precious  children;  gratitude  for  the  principles  of  the  gospel  that  have 
made  these  blessings  possible;  gratitude  that  other  mothers  have  reared  fine  sons  to  be 
companions  to  mine  in  the  mission  field;  gratitude  that  this  was  our  third  son  to  do 
missionary  work. 
I  am  so  glad  that  I  could  open  the  door  within  my  heart  and  let  my  son  go. 
Now,  I  close  that  door,  knowing  those  lovely  memories  behind  it  are  always  there; 
knowing  that  as  I  close  this  door,  another  is  opening  in  visions  of  hope  and  love  and 
faith,  and  new  activity;  knowing  that  always,  with  each  child,  doors  open  to  new  vistas 
and  close  on  finished  chapters,  while  mothers  become  wiser  in  the  ways  of  children  — 
and  doors  —  and  understanding. 
Thus  we  gain  a  fulness  of  living,  with  joy  in  that  fulness,  and  a  testimony. 
"For  I  the  Lord  thy  God  will  hold  thy  right  hand,  saying  unto  thee,  Fear  not;  I  will 
help  thee"  (Isaiah  41:13). 
I  Would  Follow  Thee 
Mildred  Wenhvorth 
Jesus  Christ,  Redeemer,  too, 
I  would  lea\e  all  and  follow  you. 
Thou  art  the  light  upon  the  hill; 
A  beacon  guiding  mc  until 
My  time  upon  this  earth  is  past. 
And,  kneeling  at  thy  feet  at  last, 
I  hear  thy  sweet  commanding  voice 
Say,  "Come  to  me.  Rejoice,  rejoice." 
Page  265

^'Singing  Sermons'' 
CaroJine  Eyn'ng  Miner 
A  yTY  mother  knew  almost  every  song  in  the  hymn  book  by  heart.  She  was  not  a 
■*--■-  talented  singer,  but  she  could  cany  a  tune  with  enthusiasm  and  some  accuracy, 
and  she  loved  to  sing.  Sometimes,  on  a  Sunday  afternoon,  she  would  gather  us  around 
the  piano,  which  had  known  better  days,  and,  starting  with  "Abide  With  Me,"  we  would 
sing  through  to  "Dear  to  the  Heart  of  the  Shepherd,"  which,  as  I  remember,  was  in 
those  days,  the  last  song  in  the  book. 
"Count  Your  Many  Blessings"  was  a  favorite  of  Mother's,  and  she  impressed  its 
message  upon  us.  There  was  never  anyone  who  was  more  of  an  optimist  than  she. 
I  often  thought  she  was  thankful  that  she  didn't  have  anything  except  the  spirit  of 
being  thankful.    Now  I  know  that  is  truly  something  to  be  thankful  for. 
"Angry  Words!  Oh,  Let  Them  Never  From  the  Tongue  Unbridled  Slip,"  we  learned 
as  a  duet,  and  its  message  sank  deep  into  my  heart.  Family  harmony  was  a  realit)'  in 
more  ways  than  one.  "Do  What  Is  Right  ...  let  the  consequence  follow"  put  the 
fearless  militancy  of  the  crusader  into  our  hearts.  It  was  Mother's  Father's  favorite 
and  exemplified  his  fearlessness  well.  We  were  rewarded  with  a  dime  each  for  learn- 
ing the  words  of  this  magnificent  hymn  from  beginning  to  end. 
In  our  home  evenings  we  usually  sang  "Love  at  Home,"  page  49.  It  was  easy 
to  find  and  could  be  counted  upon  to  set  the  proper  mood.  The  words  were  then 
sung  automatically,  but  the  phrases  come  back  to  me  again  and  again  with  renewed 
significance.  "There  is  joy  in  every  sound  when  there's  love  at  home,  .  .  .  Oh,  there's 
One  who  smiles  on  high  when  there's  love  at  home." 
"O  My  Father,"  with  its  plaintive  melody  and  its  bitter  sweetness  of  sad  associa- 
tions at  funerals  was  another  song  Mother  loved  to  sing.  The  greatest  favorite,  though, 
was  "There  Is  an  Hour  of  Peace  and  Rest." 
There  is  an  hour  of  peace  and  rest, 
Unmarred  by  earthly  care; 
'Tis  when  before  the  Lord  I  go. 
And  kneel  in  secret  prayer. 
May  my  heart  be  turned  to  pray. 
Pray  in  secret  day  by  day.  .  .  . 
These  "sung  sermons"  have  stayed  with  me  much  longer  than  the  unsung  ones, 
maybe  because  I  was  not  conscious  of  their  being  sermons  at  all.  By  contrast,  I 
tremble  to  think  of  the  "sung  sermons"  some  of  our  children  are  getting  from  tele- 
vision and  radio  without  supervision.  Maybe,  as  parents,  we  had  better  start  singing 
more  sermons  of  our  own. 
Page  266

A  Latter-day  Saint  Schoolteacher 
in  Beaver,  Alaska 
Elizabeth  Peterson  Zahiiskie 
THIS  
is  our  second  Sunday  in  friends,  went  rabbit  hunting  and  re- 
Beaver,  and  in  many  ways  it  turned  shortly  with  three  rabbits, 
seems  as  if  we  have  been  here  These,  with  food  left  from  the 
much  longer.  The  time  has  been  school  lunch  program,  provided  us 
spent  in  varied  activities,  some  new  with  food. 
experiences,   and   others   the   usual  The  plane  returned  in  the  eve- 
routine  business  of  getting  settled.  ning  with  our  bedding  and  the  few 
Our  trip  was  pleasant,  highlighted  groceries  I  had  purchased  in  Fair- 
by  meeting  with  friends  in  Fairbanks  banks,  and  thus  we  spent  the  first 
and  spending  an  enjoyable  evening  day  in  our  new  home, 
talking  over  old  times.  We  attended  The  school  is  a  large  building  and 
church  in  the  new  chapel,  which  a  landmark  to  every  river  and  air 
was  quite  a  change  from  the  time  pilot  in  this  region.  More  than  its 
when  we  held  our  meetings  in  the  size  accounts  for  this  fame,  however, 
homes  of  members.  We  also  visited  for  to  keep  the  generator  working 
our  old  home  on  the  farm  outside  properly  we  must  burn  the  lights 
of  Fairbanks  and  the  University  of  all  the  time  and  they  can  be  seen 
Alaska,  both  showing  some  growth,  for  miles.  At  night  we  turn  lights 
but  still  familiar.  on,  instead  of  out.     The  water  is 
From  Fairbanks  to  Beaver  we  flew  hauled  from  the  river  in  large  bar- 
in  an  old  B-17  loaded  with  freight  rels  and  left  to  stand  so  the  dirt 
and  moose  hunters.  This  was  a  will  settle,  then  it  is  pumped  into  a 
rough  flight,  and  before  we  reached  large  tank  for  use  in  the  school.  The 
Fort  Yukon  the  boys  were  air  sick,  hot  water  tank  is  very  small,  so  I 
It  got  worse  from  Fort  Yukon  to  must  heat  all  water  for  washing  and 
Beaver,  so  I  joined  them,  and  when  bathing.  We  also  boil  all  water  we 
we  finally  arrived  the  plane  couldn't  drink,  and  even  this  gets  pretty  dark 
land,  so  we  returned  to  Fort  Yukon  and  thick  toward  the  bottom  of  the 
and  the  ''bush  pilot"  took  us  and  a  jug.  In  fact,  at  first,  the  boys 
little  of  our  luggage  into  Beaver,  thought  it  was  punch,  but  like 
The  weather  was  windy,  wet,  and  everything  else  we  soon  got  used 
chilly,  but  the  faces  of  the  people  to  it  and  the  taste  really  isn't  bad. 
who  met  the  plane  were  bright  and  Our  quarters  are  comfortably 
smiling  and  we  were  happy  to  see  furnished  except  for  the  curtains, 
them.  and   these   I   have  ordered   from  a 
The  engineer  who   accompanied  catalogue.    The  dishes  and  silver  are 
us    from   Fairbanks    soon   had   the  strictly  G.I.    We  have  oil  heat  and 
generator  and  fires  going.    He  hired  so  far  it  has  been  warm,  except  for 
the   school    janitor   who   had  been  the  floors,  but  the  boys  have  wool 
here  last  year,  and  he  began  hauling  socks   and   if   I   wear  two  pairs   of 
water.     The  boys,  with  their  new  anklets  it  is  comfortable.    We  have 
Page  267

268 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL  1962 
POST  OFFICE  IN  BEAVER,  ALASKA 
The  author,  Elizabeth   P.   Zabriskie,  and  her  sons  Duane  and  Sheldon   are   seen 
standing  on  the  steps. 
storm  windows  now,  but  Moses 
(the  janitor)  says  there  are  more  to 
go  up  before  it  gets  cold.  We  have 
two  bedrooms,  a  bath,  living  room, 
kitchen,  and  a  little  radio  room 
where  I  send  and  receive  all  mes- 
sages for  the  village.  There  is  a  guest 
room  upstairs,  and  it  is  one  of  my 
duties  to  provide  food  and  lodging 
for  all  health  and  welfare  personnel 
who  visit  the  village.  Judging  from 
the  past  week,  we  will  not  be  lone- 
some, for  we  have  had  a  guest  nearly 
every  night,  and  this  week  we  are 
expecting  the  X-ray  unii:  in  the  vil- 
lage. The  school  is  the  center  of 
all  village  activity,  and  I,  the  teacher, 
am  expected  to  be  in  charge  of 
it  all. 
/^UTSIDE  of  teaching  and  enter- 
taining  guests,   my   duties   in- 
clude planning   menus   and   organ- 
izing the  hot  lunch  program  (the 
mothers  do  the  cooking),  arranging 
for  movies  to  be  shown  once  a  week, 
dispensing  all  drugs  to  the  natives  in 
the  village,  each  day  report  over  the 
radio  to  the  hospital  in  Tanana  any 
sickness  in  the  village,  and  receive 
instructions  as  to  what  to  do  about 
it.  Each  evening  I  have  radio  con- 
tact with  Fairbanks  to  receive  any 
telegrams  or  telephone  messages  and 
to  send  any  messages  from  here,  and 
there  are  times  when  the  traffic  is 
quite  heavy,  as  the  other  night  we 
were  on  the  air  from  8:00  p.m.  to 
11:25  trying  to  get  three  messages 
through.  Another  day  one  of  the 
missionaries  from  the  village  was 
reported  lost  on  a  flight  to  Fair- 
banks, and  we  were  on  the  air  re- 
ceiving messages  until  he  was  re- 
ported safe  early  the  next  morning. 
The  village  is  small,  consisting  of