[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 46 | Category: Fiction | Title: The Mischief Makers | Author: Dorothy Clapp Robinson]
The Mischief Makers Dorothy Clapp Robinson ETITIA Haworth, called Tish I, by her friends, dropped to her bed and tried to find a comfortable position. "IT need a new bed." She spoke aloud, a habit she had acquired since being alone. "But then I shouldn't be napping. I should finish trimming the lawn." She sat up and pounded her pillow. "There is no point in my being so tired. I have been doing these things the last thirty years, and I love doing them." First, there had been a picnic in her back yard yesterday. Children were certainly more careless than they used to be. 'True, the chaperon had stayed to finish the cleaning the children had started, but Tish had waved her aside with: "You run along, dearie. I love doing this." And she did like doing it. And last evening Irene, Tish's daughter, had a meeting with her Cub Scouts in the basement. The boys spilled punch on the floor. It was a couldn't-be-helped accident, and the boys had mopped furiously if not too effectively — bless their hearts. Irene, knowing her mother, said, "Don't you touch this. I will be over in the morning." "In the morning" in Tish's language did not mean the middle of the afternoon. When Irene called to excuse her delay, Tish said, "I have it all done so don't worry." And not to leave any doubt that this was her day, the boy who took care of her lawn called early. He wanted to go on a hike and would not be back before day after tomorrow. Would she mind if he did it then? "You run along," she answered, "T'll love doing it this time." She had forgotten how enormous the lawn was, even when using a power mower. When they had built facing the street, Hugh, her husband, had said, "We'll put all this back space into lawn. It will be a wonderful playground for our children." It had been, and still was. The trees they had planted had grown to give shade, and the swings were still intact, antl used not only by their children's children, but by all the children from miles around, it seemed. Most of them could use a lesson on property nghts. Kemembering, Tish sighed. No one disciplined children any more. Mr. Brown, a real estate dealer and a friend of Hugh's, said one day, "You are virtually running a public playground. Sell this back lot to me. He had repeated his offer many times, but 'Tish would as soon think of selling her home. The pillow at last gave a modicum of comfort, and several times Tish thought she was going to nap, but back would come her problems. "Get rid of this big place," her children were constantly advising her. Fiddlesticks. She had been taking care of this place ever since it had been built, and she would never Page 243 244 entirely lose Hugh as long as she had it. Every foot of lawn, every room, every nail and beam, and every inch of paint spoke of him. All the gladness and the sadness of her life were part of this place. Someone in the yard next door kept hammering. When she could stand it no longer, Tish rose and went to the window. It was Bob Jennings and Mr. Brown. 'They were putting a sign on the lawn. 'Tish knew immediately it was a "For Sale" sign. OW could Bob do such a thing so soon! Only last month his mother had passed away. She had lived in that little house for at least twenty-five years, and now, Bob was trying to sell her place. It seemed nothing counted these days but dolJars. Tish thought of returning to the bed, but her conscience prodded her. All that clipping yet to be done. 'I should go help Bob." She stopped short. An idea had popped into her mind. Perfect. It would solve all her problems. She knew every inch of the little house. 'Times without numbers she had sat with Mrs. Jennings, helped her clean, or taken her guests into her own guest room. Then a really big idea hit her. Irene and Jim needed a larger house for their growing family. They had been dickering for one in a new housing project called Hill Village. Her plan would save them that expense. They could have this house, with its wonderful yard and all she would ask was that they buy Mrs. Jennings' house for her. 'That way Tish would really not be losing her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 home. Her piano could stay right where it was. The guest room would be there when one of her frequent guests came. "Tl wrap up the deal right now." Her tiredness had turned to enthusiasm. She went to the telephone and dialed Bob's home. "Just a moment," his wife said, "I think he is driving into the yard.... Just a moment." "Why, Mrs. Haworth. Id love you to have mother's place," Bob said when Tish ran out of breath. "Tl write the heirs today. I should have releases by, say Monday or Tuesday at the latest." "Tl do it. YU do it." Tish hummed happily as she started her car. She was especially happy that she had thought of it herself. Usually, she followed pretty much what the family dictated. As she neared Irene's home, she saw a company car at the curb and Irene and Jim were standing beside it, their heads bent over some papers. Hardly waiting for her car to stop, Tish was out and hobbling toward them. Her right ankle wasn't acting so well today. "Guess what," she cried, and without waiting for their response, she plunged into the happy news. "I have this house problem solved for all of us. I don't know why I hadn't thought of it before." "We were just discussing.... Irene stopped and looked at her mother. "What do you mean?" "Well, Bob has put his mother's place up for sale. I called him." "? J™ and Irene exchanged a quick look. Jim folded the papers and put them in his pocket. In words tumbling over each THE MISCHIEF MAKERS other, Tish outlined her entire plan. They would have no big payment to make, no interest to pay. All they would have to do was buy the little house for her and they could have her big place. "T wouldn't mind giving up my home," she said, slowing down for breath, "I can still enjoy it and look at what you will save." "That is very unselfish of you, Mother," Irene answered, "but it would be unfair to you, and to the rest of the family." "Tt sure would," Jim added, "your place has four times the value of that small place. And there would be a lot of problems involved. Besides, > We WETe...." "Why should there be any problems? And Irene can live in her own home. She has always loved it. Haven't you?" "Of course, Mother, but I am not sure it would work out. And you would not be satisfied if you gave up the house." "Why shouldn't I...?" "We'll think about it," Jim interrupted. "We do appreciate your offer, and we will think about it." "What is there to think about?" "There are a number of angles, and we would not want to rush into a deal of this kind. We'll call you." Tish wasn't afraid of what their thinking would result in, but she was a little annoyed. The advantages were all theirs. They wouldn't find an opportunity like that every day. HEN ten o'clock came the next morning, Tish called Irene. "We haven't quite decided." 245 Irene sounded a little annoyed, 'Tish thought. The reason they were hesitating, of course, was their desire not to be selfish, and as Irene had said, there was the family, but that could be handled. A little later, a friend, Phyllis Herbert, called and asked Tish if she would ride to Dry Creek with her. They had a mutual friend who had fallen and broken her hip and would be glad to see them. Tish hesitated. It would be a pleasant drive, and she had to wait until evening for Jim's decision, but he might accidently call earlier. "Don't you trust my driving?" Phyllis asked. "Tt isn't that. Call from Jim. Portant." "For pity sake. They live only four blocks from you, and if it is that important we can drive by there." "TIL go," Tish decided suddenly. If she were out of town, Jim would know she was not trying to pressure him. "What are you so excited about?" Phyllis asked, when they were on their way. "I'm moving." Happy to have a listener Tish poured out her story. Phyllis showed a disappointing lack of enthusiasm. "Don't you think it is a wonderful plan?" "Yes, if Jim and Irene like it. I heard they had bought in Hill Village." "But this is much better for them, and I shan't have the work of keeping up the house and yard." "Would you mind my honest opinion?" I am expecting a It is very im- 246 "Certainly not." "Here goes then. Not your problem. But not the house." "Why — why, for pity sake, what is it then?" "That you will have to figure out for yourself, but, remember, you can't have your cake and eat it, too." The house is The yard, yes, ISH had scarcely settled herself after her return when Jim and Irene appeared. "You have decided to take it?" Tish cried. "Well, we can't very well refuse," Jim answered, "but there will be some remodeling necessary, and since we are lucky enough to get it at your price, we feel we can afford some changes." He had a little hammer and a tape measure and went about tapping walls and measuring. Tish looked from his departing back to Irene. "What in the world are you planning?" "Well, Mother, you didn't think we would want it just as it is, did you? Weare trying to decide what remodeling has to be done and what it would cost. I will have this partition taken out." Irene indicated the wall between the living room and what had been Hugh's study. Tish sat speechless. Presently Irene came back from inspecting the bedroom. "We'll make a family room out of that spare bedroom, and have it open onto a patio — we can easily build one there." She stopped and looked at the wall above the mantel. "I saw a painting that will fit chat space exactly. Maybe I can talk the family into giving it to me for a Christmas present. And I have some carpet in mind that will RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 harmonize with the color of the painting. Then I will have those bookshelves taken out." "Irene, have you gone mad? Those shelves were built in there, one on each side of the fireplace, to extend the mantel. The mantel alone isn't large enough for our Christmas scene, the manger and all the little people...." "And the piano will go here." Irene ignored the native's scene and pointed to a wall against which there was a large davenport. "But the piano has always been where it is now. Why move it?" "That is your piano, I mean mine." HAT night Tish woke with a moan. She had seen her beloved home being torn down, first a door, then a window, then a beam. Her cabinet of figurines, collected from all over the world, was thrown from the empty doorway. Then she noticed Hugh, standing to one side watching, and every discarded board deepened the distress in his eyes. Then the house, Hugh, debris, and all began receding — further, further. She ran and ran, but could not catch up. Fully awake now, she looked about. Yes, this was her home. That had been but a haunting dream. She was in her own home and nothing had been touched. Slipping on a robe, she went into the living room and sat in the big chair Hugh had always used. She couldn't think.