[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: 259 My Son Is on a Mission Agnes K. Morgan]
My  Son  Is  on  a  Mission 
Agnes  K.  Morgan 
AS  our  missionary  force  grows,  I  hear  many  mothers  tell  of  their  sons  and  of  their 
places  of  labor.  Then  I  wonder  if  these  other  mothers  share  some  of  the  same 
emotions  and  thoughts  that  are  mine.  When  our  son  left,  I  was  tired,  sad,  and  was 
filled  with  an  immense  feeling  of  regret  for  all  the  things  that  I  had  not  done;  yet, 
I  was  so  very,  very  grateful  for  this  worthy  son.  I  carried  a  quiet  joy  in  my  heart, 
seeking  not  to  be  proud  except  in  gratitude  to  the  Lord  for  such  a  precious  son. 
My  soul  knelt  inside  of  mc  to  thank  my  Father  in  heaven,  while  my  head  was  raised 
high  in  radiance  of  the  joy  of  the  gospel. 
I  was  slow  to  clear  away  things  and  close  his  desk;  slow  to  put  away  the  evi- 
dence of  his  living  here;  reluctant  at  night  to  lock  the  front  door  and  turn  out  the 
lights,  for  I  still  waited  for  the  sound  of  his  car  and  his  arri\'al  home.  I  prepared  good 
family  meals  —  the  number  at  the  table  seemed  small. 
To  sustain  me,  there  was  a  sweeping  gratitude  for  worthy  sons,  for  my  husband 
and  our  other  precious  children;  gratitude  for  the  principles  of  the  gospel  that  have 
made  these  blessings  possible;  gratitude  that  other  mothers  have  reared  fine  sons  to  be 
companions  to  mine  in  the  mission  field;  gratitude  that  this  was  our  third  son  to  do 
missionary  work. 
I  am  so  glad  that  I  could  open  the  door  within  my  heart  and  let  my  son  go. 
Now,  I  close  that  door,  knowing  those  lovely  memories  behind  it  are  always  there; 
knowing  that  as  I  close  this  door,  another  is  opening  in  visions  of  hope  and  love  and 
faith,  and  new  activity;  knowing  that  always,  with  each  child,  doors  open  to  new  vistas 
and  close  on  finished  chapters,  while  mothers  become  wiser  in  the  ways  of  children  — 
and  doors  —  and  understanding. 
Thus  we  gain  a  fulness  of  living,  with  joy  in  that  fulness,  and  a  testimony. 
"For  I  the  Lord  thy  God  will  hold  thy  right  hand,  saying  unto  thee,  Fear  not;  I  will 
help  thee"  (Isaiah  41:13). 
I  Would  Follow  Thee 
Mildred  Wenhvorth 
Jesus  Christ,  Redeemer,  too, 
I  would  lea\e  all  and  follow  you. 
Thou  art  the  light  upon  the  hill; 
A  beacon  guiding  mc  until 
My  time  upon  this  earth  is  past. 
And,  kneeling  at  thy  feet  at  last, 
I  hear  thy  sweet  commanding  voice 
Say,  "Come  to  me.  Rejoice,  rejoice." 
Page  265

^'Singing  Sermons'' 
CaroJine  Eyn'ng  Miner 
A  yTY  mother  knew  almost  every  song  in  the  hymn  book  by  heart.  She  was  not  a 
■*--■-  talented  singer,  but  she  could  cany  a  tune  with  enthusiasm  and  some  accuracy, 
and  she  loved  to  sing.  Sometimes,  on  a  Sunday  afternoon,  she  would  gather  us  around 
the  piano,  which  had  known  better  days,  and,  starting  with  "Abide  With  Me,"  we  would 
sing  through  to  "Dear  to  the  Heart  of  the  Shepherd,"  which,  as  I  remember,  was  in 
those  days,  the  last  song  in  the  book. 
"Count  Your  Many  Blessings"  was  a  favorite  of  Mother's,  and  she  impressed  its 
message  upon  us.  There  was  never  anyone  who  was  more  of  an  optimist  than  she. 
I  often  thought  she  was  thankful  that  she  didn't  have  anything  except  the  spirit  of 
being  thankful.    Now  I  know  that  is  truly  something  to  be  thankful  for. 
"Angry  Words!  Oh,  Let  Them  Never  From  the  Tongue  Unbridled  Slip,"  we  learned 
as  a  duet,  and  its  message  sank  deep  into  my  heart.  Family  harmony  was  a  realit)'  in 
more  ways  than  one.  "Do  What  Is  Right  ...  let  the  consequence  follow"  put  the 
fearless  militancy  of  the  crusader  into  our  hearts.  It  was  Mother's  Father's  favorite 
and  exemplified  his  fearlessness  well.  We  were  rewarded  with  a  dime  each  for  learn- 
ing the  words  of  this  magnificent  hymn  from  beginning  to  end. 
In  our  home  evenings  we  usually  sang  "Love  at  Home,"  page  49.  It  was  easy 
to  find  and  could  be  counted  upon  to  set  the  proper  mood.  The  words  were  then 
sung  automatically,  but  the  phrases  come  back  to  me  again  and  again  with  renewed 
significance.  "There  is  joy  in  every  sound  when  there's  love  at  home,  .  .  .  Oh,  there's 
One  who  smiles  on  high  when  there's  love  at  home." 
"O  My  Father,"  with  its  plaintive  melody  and  its  bitter  sweetness  of  sad  associa- 
tions at  funerals  was  another  song  Mother  loved  to  sing.  The  greatest  favorite,  though, 
was  "There  Is  an  Hour  of  Peace  and  Rest." 
There  is  an  hour  of  peace  and  rest, 
Unmarred  by  earthly  care; 
'Tis  when  before  the  Lord  I  go. 
And  kneel  in  secret  prayer. 
May  my  heart  be  turned  to  pray. 
Pray  in  secret  day  by  day.  .  .  . 
These  "sung  sermons"  have  stayed  with  me  much  longer  than  the  unsung  ones, 
maybe  because  I  was  not  conscious  of  their  being  sermons  at  all.  By  contrast,  I 
tremble  to  think  of  the  "sung  sermons"  some  of  our  children  are  getting  from  tele- 
vision and  radio  without  supervision.  Maybe,  as  parents,  we  had  better  start  singing 
more  sermons  of  our  own. 
Page  266