[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Crookston]
[The Little Silver Thimble Sherry Crookston]

A wooden bucket hung on its rope near the new open well, and the barrels which had been used to haul the culinary water from the river found other uses. Inside the house the ceiling was covered with an unbleached material called factory which was whitewashed, as were the walls. A strip of homemade carpet partly covered the unmatched boards of the rough plank floor. The flickering light of the candle was replaced by the kerosene FROM MY WINDOW I WATCH lamp. Scrupulously clean. Life was good, full of faith, hope and dreams. For many years this humble structure gave shelter from storm, blizzard, heat, cold, night, enemies imaginary and real. It fostered love, security, thanksgiving, vision, faith, discipline, contentment, peace. Under its roof morning and evening prayers were a regular institution, and the children were taught many lessons in early life, including thrift, dependability, self-reliance; a knowledge that all owed a debt of gratitude to the community and its members; that happiness comes through sharing, helping, giving; that proThe little house was kept 273 gression is a move in which all must give a share. The old log house is a memory now, a blessed memory to those who were reared there and to those who will come after. EK KK ODAY from my window I watch, and in my heart I find a prayer, "O Father, may we who enjoy the inheritance of those brave pioneer souls, prove faithful to the heritage that is ours. May we take the responsibility of teaching our children the important things in life. May we feel gratitude for that which we have. May we be worthy of thy love. Thanks for the memory of an old log house. —— Enough Hazel Loomis I want no more than corn to grind — Or sheep to tend. Enough, if by a scrubby tree, I sit the whole day long As mother, weaving, Hums a song. Enough, to sit for just an hour Beside my father's hogan fire — Enraptured artist, color rising in his face, Pounding silver Into lace. I need no pillow for my head, A pallet of clean sand, my bed. Where hearts glow warm — where smoke leaps higher, Enough, the peace Of a hogan fire. —— Attitudes Even the desire to do our best brings hope and the beginning of gladness. Tich, then, shall the harvest be. How —Pauline M.