[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 08 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
[Editorial: ""I Y/ill Pour Out My Spirit" .^ Marianne C. Sharp]
— Editorial APRIL'S AFIELD April's afield! April's in the air! Almost you may see each hour Willows that at dawn were bare, Meadows that were brown, On which the lengthening mellow day has burned, Creep into green before the sun goes down. And some black bough while mortal backs were turned, Swift stolen into flower. — Selected RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY IN BENNINGTON, IDAHO: The sixticth anniversary of the organization of Relief Society was duly celebrated.. An address of welcome was given by President Margaret VanOrman, after which a program of speeches and songs and instrumental music was rendered. An excellent sketch of the life of Aunt Zina Young was given by Sister Rebecca Lindsay.... At two o'clock one hundred and seventy people were seated at the tables which were loaded with a delicious dinner.... At 3:30 the program was continued, consisting of singing, imstrumental music and step dancing. — An Observer A GIFT FOR PRESIDENT THEODORE ROOSEVELT'S WIFE: Mrs. Roosevelt has received a gift from President Diaz of Mexico, consisting of three pieces of exquisitely drawn linen. They are said to be the most beautiful specimens that have ever come to this country, and were sent to Mrs. Roosevelt as a special recognition of her encouragement to the linen workers in Porto Rico. — News Note But there is One who knoweth — thy worth the angels tell, And thy reward is doubly sure — He doeth all things well! — Ellis R. Shipp Page 254 a RS. MARVIN (JOJEAN) LOFLIN was the one woman on the fourrmember team of Brigham Young University students who defeated four other college teams in succession on the national television program "College Bowl" — a weekly battle of brains and academic information. 'The other students were Robert Despain, Todd A. Britsch, and David Stone. On the fifth round, the "Y" students were defeated by Depauw University. Mrs. Loflin, who has a two-year old son and will be graduated in June, was noted among the students of all the teams for her wide knowledge and quick answers. She is an active Latter-day Saint young woman. The team won $6,500 in scholarships for the Brigham Young University and respect from audiences. HELEN HAYES, "Great Lady of the American Theater," is pictured as a devoted, wise, and sensible mother in an article in the February issue of Good Housekeeping by her beloved adopted son, James MacArthur. She gave him his first piano lessons; she paints and does sculpturing and designs and makes dresses as hobbies — all excellently; she has been awarded seven honorary degrees. She has recently been received with great } & LAs arnaanm Vy¥oman S: - I Ramona W. Cannon acclaim, traveling and acting with the Theater Guild, first in Europe, then in thirteen South American countries — as a representative of the United States in the cultural exchange program. MBs. WILMA RUDOLPH WARD, the outstanding woman track athlete in the United States, was voted the 1961 James E. Sullivan Award as top athlete in this country. Her runner-up was 'Tommy Kono, world champion weightlifter from Honolulu. RS. GLADYS SCHMITT, professor of English at Carnegie Institute of 'Technology, did a vast amount of painstaking and accurate research for her recently published fictional biography of the great seventeenth-century Dutch painter Rembrandt. 'The writing is brilliant and the facts are adhered to closely. YLVIA PORTER (Mrs. G. Sumner Collins), business columnist, and economics analyst, has a potential reading public of more than twenty-three million people. Her daily column "Your Dollar" appears in 311 newspapers, "giving her a distribution vastly wider than that of any other syndicated business columnist." Page 255 EDITORIAL <cm~2 "L Will Pour Out My Spirit' ROM a meeting of six people in a small town in New York State to over a million and threequarter people located on every continent in the world — these figures represent the growth in membership of The Church of Jesus Christ since it was restored to the earth in 1830, one hundred thirty-two years ago this April 6. In speaking of the organizational meeting, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote: We dismissed with the pleasing knowledge that we were now individually members of, and acknowledged of God, "The Church of Jesus Christ," organized in accordance with commandments and revelations given by Him to ourselves in these last days, as well as according to the order of the Church as recorded in the New Testament (DHC I:79). To Latter-day Saints today the growth of the Church seems phenomenal, yet to the Prophet Joseph and succeeding prophets of the Lord this growth was to be expected, for a vision of the destiny of the Church has been theirs. In 1843, the Prophet Joseph declared: Take Jacob Zundell and Frederick H. Moeser... And send them to Germany; and when you meet with an Arab, send him to Arabia; when you find an Italian, send him to Italy; and a Frenchman, to France; or an Indian that is suitable, send him among the Indians. Send them to the different places where they belong. Send somebody to Central America and to all Spanish America; and don't let a Page 256 single corner of the earth go without a mission (DHC V:368). From and even before the time of the organization of the Church, the gospel net began to draw in its own. Converts in this country and Canada and in the old countries, aflame with the spirit of gathering, sailed the oceans and rode the rivers; ox teams plodded and saints walked laboriously the one thousand miles of dry land to their resting place in the Rocky Mountains. Before his martyrdom the Prophet Joseph foretold that the saints would become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains. Isaiah of ancient times had declared, And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills, and all nations shall flow unto it (Isaiah 2:2). The saints have become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains, and the gathering continues but, still obedient to the voices of the prophets, the gathering of the saints in this day is in stakes, some far removed from Church headquarters, which are designated as places of gatherings for the saints, and where the greatest blessings of the sealing power have now been made available. The Savior is the head of the Church, and his mind and will are EDITORIAL revealed to the Church members through his chosen prophets. The members must have listening ears and accept the counsel, admonitions, and warnings of the present leaders and follow them implicitly. Joel spoke of the day when the Lord said, "I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh" (Joel 2:28). The wonderful progress taking place in the Church could be in fulfillment of that prophecy. As the Church spreads over the earth, so the organization of Relief Society spreads, that it may accomplish its divine purpose among the sisters and for the blessing of the Church members generally. 'The present prophet, President David O. McKay, has declared "Every Church member a missionary." If Relief Society is to keep pace in its designated place in the Church, then members will heed this injunction, 257 will be obedient to the Priesthood in their homes, teach and train their sons and daughters, as called, to go on missions, teach righteous principles and themselves lead exemplary lives. If every Relief Society member is a missionary — by precept when called and always by example — each one will then be participating in the blessings described in holy writ as "How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace" (Isaiah 52:7). This is a glorious day in which to be permitted to live, and glorious accomplishments are expected of those who are living now. May Relief Society live up to its blessings and great opportunities in this day of phenomenal growth and expansion. —M. C. S. Music Padda M. Speller The sunset on majestic peaks Glows richer than before; Sweeter sound the mountain creeks When we have music at our core. Verdant valleys greener seeming, Birds, more graceful, swifter dart, Beauty far beyond our dreaming When we have music in our heart. With humble dignity we are shod, And to nobility inclined, Walking hand in hand with God, When we have music in our mind. In melody, and sweetly, flows Life on, and when years take their toll There is joy, contentment, and repose, When we have music in our soul. Votes. TO THE FIELD - Lesson rreviews to Appear in the June Issue Ww of The Relief Society Magazine HE previews for the 1962-63 lessons will appear in the June 1962 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and the lessons for October will be in the July 1962 issue. In order to obtain the June issue of the Magazine it will be necessary for renewals and new subscriptions to reach the General Offices by the first of May 1962. It is suggested that Magazine representatives check their lists immediately so that all Relief Society members will receive all of the issues containing the lessons. It is suggested that ward presidents make this announcement in the April meetings.