[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 32 | Category: Fiction | Title: What | Author: Proctor]
Maude Proctor HIS morning when you got out of bed and raised the blind, or when you gazed out of the window over the sink as you finished the breakfast dishes, what did you see? If you are the average housewife, with the cares of rearing a family on your mind, you will probably answer, "Oh, the same old yard." And if it happens to be summer, you might think with a sigh, John has Page 282 not cut the lawn yet, and Alan left his bike out again, and I must take care of the flower bed. Or, if it was winter, your thoughts may have run, also with a sigh, John will have to shovel the snow off those walks before school, and will Alan ever learn to put his bike away at night? And so into the day. Worry, worry. What you saw was a panorama of everyday living that immediately translated itself into work and re- WHAT DID YOU SEE? Sponsibility. 'That is good, but first let us try to see things that will lift the spirit and delight the soul. Then we can move into the duties of the day with pleasure and with courage., The eye must be helped to see the less obvious beauties of ordinary objects about us. 'The place to begin this learning process is in an art class, preferably one in oil painting. "Horrors," you exclaim, "I can't even draw a straight line!" Of course you can't. Very few people can. But, even if you never paint a picture that gets further than the trash can (but probably you will), the rewards are great. Have you ever noticed how many shades of green there are in the tree in the corner of your yard? Look carefully, and you will become conscious of more and more shades and colors. Now look at the shape or form, the pattern the tree makes against the sky. Now glance at the color of the sky. "Why, it is blue," you say. Look again. 'The sky, too, may be any number of colors and shades, and they vary in color with shapes that are a delight to watch as they change and form new patterns in a way that reminds us of music or a dance. Alan's bicycle is a mosaic of light 283 and shadow that makes us think of God's world in all its beautv and order, even if it also reminds us that one son left his belongings where he dropped them, and the other son forgot to cut the lawn. As we attend an art class we come to see afresh, with more perception, and, therefore, more pleasure, the loveliness of such ev eryday things as the color and form of baby's red ball lying against the gold pillow on the brown couch. 'The subtle nuances of color in the little dish Grandmother painted when she was a girl, and cherished so carefully along the trip across the plains, will bring a sudden gift of joy as we hurry through the day. Perhaps we sense these details now, but dimly. The discipline of trying to get them on paper or canvas, the coaching and training in really seeing color, form, and line will result in such a heightened awareness of the beauty around us that we will be thankful throughout our lives for the impulse that led us to join a class in painting. Then, when someone asks us "What did you see?" we can answer with uplifted heart that we saw the heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament show his handiwork. My Prayer Grant me the blessedness that I can comfort those in need. Let my heart sing songs of gratitude at the sundown of my days. My awakening. My songs will never cease. Sweet will be my sleep and joyful —Pauline M.