[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: I Would Follow Thee | Author: Mildred Wentworth,]
followed pretty much what the family dictated. As she neared Irene's home, she saw a company car at the curb and Irene and Jim were standing beside it, their heads bent over some papers. Hardly waiting for her car to stop, Tish was out and hobbling toward them. Her right ankle wasn't acting so well today. "Guess what," she cried, and without waiting for their response, she plunged into the happy news. "I have this house problem solved for all of us. I don't know why I hadn't thought of it before." "We were just discussing.... Irene stopped and looked at her mother. "What do you mean?" "Well, Bob has put his mother's place up for sale. I called him." "? J™ and Irene exchanged a quick look. Jim folded the papers and put them in his pocket. In words tumbling over each THE MISCHIEF MAKERS other, Tish outlined her entire plan. They would have no big payment to make, no interest to pay. All they would have to do was buy the little house for her and they could have her big place. "T wouldn't mind giving up my home," she said, slowing down for breath, "I can still enjoy it and look at what you will save." "That is very unselfish of you, Mother," Irene answered, "but it would be unfair to you, and to the rest of the family." "Tt sure would," Jim added, "your place has four times the value of that small place. And there would be a lot of problems involved. Besides, > We WETe...." "Why should there be any problems? And Irene can live in her own home. She has always loved it. Haven't you?" "Of course, Mother, but I am not sure it would work out. And you would not be satisfied if you gave up the house." "Why shouldn't I...?" "We'll think about it," Jim interrupted. "We do appreciate your offer, and we will think about it." "What is there to think about?" "There are a number of angles, and we would not want to rush into a deal of this kind. We'll call you." Tish wasn't afraid of what their thinking would result in, but she was a little annoyed. The advantages were all theirs. They wouldn't find an opportunity like that every day. HEN ten o'clock came the next morning, Tish called Irene. "We haven't quite decided." 245 Irene sounded a little annoyed, 'Tish thought. The reason they were hesitating, of course, was their desire not to be selfish, and as Irene had said, there was the family, but that could be handled. A little later, a friend, Phyllis Herbert, called and asked Tish if she would ride to Dry Creek with her. They had a mutual friend who had fallen and broken her hip and would be glad to see them. Tish hesitated. It would be a pleasant drive, and she had to wait until evening for Jim's decision, but he might accidently call earlier. "Don't you trust my driving?" Phyllis asked. "Tt isn't that. Call from Jim. Portant." "For pity sake. They live only four blocks from you, and if it is that important we can drive by there." "TIL go," Tish decided suddenly. If she were out of town, Jim would know she was not trying to pressure him. "What are you so excited about?" Phyllis asked, when they were on their way. "I'm moving." Happy to have a listener Tish poured out her story. Phyllis showed a disappointing lack of enthusiasm. "Don't you think it is a wonderful plan?" "Yes, if Jim and Irene like it. I heard they had bought in Hill Village." "But this is much better for them, and I shan't have the work of keeping up the house and yard." "Would you mind my honest opinion?" I am expecting a It is very im- 246 "Certainly not." "Here goes then. Not your problem. But not the house." "Why — why, for pity sake, what is it then?" "That you will have to figure out for yourself, but, remember, you can't have your cake and eat it, too." The house is The yard, yes, ISH had scarcely settled herself after her return when Jim and Irene