[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 26 | Category: Poem | Title: No Half | Author: Newman]
[No Half Loaf This Virginia Newman]
No  Half  Loaf,  This 
Virginia  Newman 
Friendly  were  the  words  you  said, 
Tendering  the  loaf  of  bread. 
Oven  warm  and  savory; 
How  much  that  gesture  meant  to  me. 
Almost  a  stranger,  lonely  too, 
And  gladdened  by  the  sight  of  you. 
I  would  repay  you  if  I  could. 
Oh,  yes,  the  bread  was  extra  good. 
(I'd  like  the  recipe  some  day). 
But  let  me  ask  you  if  I  may. 
How  you  acquired  the  finer  art 
Of  nourishing  the  hungry  lieart? 
I  never  had  the  knack,  somehow. 
(I'd  like  that  recipe  right  now). 
Page  275

Recipes  From  a  Pioneer  Kitchen 
Anne  McCall 
PICKLED  RED  CABBAGE 
1  or  more  firm  red  cabbages,  as  desired  (shredded) 
vinegar  to  cover  cabbage 
2  tbsp.  black  peppercorns  (to  each  quart  of  vinegar) 
2  tsp.  allspice  (to  each  quart  of  vinegar.) 
salt 
Wash  cabbage  well.  Put  into  earthenware  vessel  and  sprinkle  with  salt.  Cover 
and  let  stand  two  days.  Add  vinegar,  black  peppercorns,  and  allspice.  Boil  until  well 
flavored.  Cool  and  strain  off  remaining  liquid.  Place  cabbage  into  wide-mouthed  bottles 
and  fill  up  with  vinegar.    Seal  airtight.    Leave  for  one  month  before  using. 
APPLE  CHUTNEY 
lo  large  cooking  apples  (sliced)  i  tbsp.  mustard 
5  large  brown  onions  (sliced)  i  tbsp.  salt 
3  c.  stoned  raisins  i  tbsp.  pepper 
2  lbs.  brown  sugar  i  tsp.  cayenne 
3  pts.  vinegar 
Mix  and  boil  well.    Bottle,  and  seal.    Leave  for  three  months  before  using. 
In  a  Hard  Place 
T   ET  us  not  laugh  at  the  small,  scrubby  flower  living  precariously  away  from  a  flower 
garden.     It  has  had  to  fight  for  its  chance  with  weeds  and  drought.     It  may  be 
small  and  gnarled,  but  it  smiles  brightly  in  a  hard  place. 
It  is  the  hardy  one,  and  it  has  seeds  that  may  grow  tall  and  strong  and  straight, 
bringing  beauty  down  the  generations. 
Such  hardy  ones  among  people  were  the  pioneers,  who  came  to  the  hard  places 
and  made  them  beautiful  for  us,  their  children. 
— Celia  Luce 
Poge  276

Note  to  Carvel 
Mabel  Jones  Gdbbott 
There  is  nothing  I  can  give 
Except  a  knowing  of  the  way 
The  loss  of  one,  long  loved,  will  live 
Quiet  at  times,  until  a  day 
When  some  small  memory,  quick 
And  sharp,  yet  very  clear  and  near. 
Breaks  through  the  numbing  hurt  to  prick 
The  blank,  and  loose  a  cleansing  tear, 
Refreshing,  after  a  time,  all  living 
With  the  beauty  of  that  life,  still  giving. 
The  Little  Silver  Thimble 
Sheny  Ciookston 
npODAY  I  received  in  the  mail  a  small  package  from  my  grandfather, 
together  with  this  epistle: 
Dear  Sherry: 
Inasmuch  as  you  are  the  first  and  oldest  of  the  grandchildren,  I  thought  you  might 
like  this  little  memento  of  your  grandmother. 
As  I  took  it  out  of  her  workbasket  and  held  it  in  my  hand,  I  remembered  so 
vividly  the  light  in  her  eyes  as  she  said,  "Remember,  dear,  when  you  bought  me  this 
little  thimble?  I  was  struggling  with  the  first  baby  dress  I  had  ever  made,  and  you 
watched  me  pricking  my  fingers  as  I  pushed  the  too-large  needle  in  and  out  of  the 
dainty  material.  When  I  asked  where  you  were  going,  as  you  put  on  your  coat  and 
hat,  you  said  you  would  be  back  shortly. 
"In  a  few  minutes  you  tossed  a  tiny  square  package  in  my  lap.  As  my  eager 
hands  untied  the  ribbon,  you  watched  me  with  a  smile.  Something  special,  I  was  sure! 
Gift  wrapped,  with  love.  A  beautiful  silver  thimble!  How  I  loved  it,  and  you.  How 
I  tried  and  tried  to  use  it,  how  awkv^ard  I  felt.  You  tried  to  show  me,  and  we  both 
laughed  together." 
She  soon  mastered  it,  Sherr}^  as  she  did  most  of  life's  problems.  When  I  recall 
the  many  beautiful  pieces  of  handwork  and  lovely  garments  her  love  and  skill  fashioned 
throughout  the  years,  as  we  sat  together  evenings  and  I  read  to  her,  or  we  discussed 
our  plans  and  affairs  of  the  day,  my  thoughts  go  out  to  you,  and  as  you  are  planning 
to  be  married  soon,  may  you  and  Bill  be  as  happy,  and  may  your  lives  be  as  full  of 
the  good  things  as  ours  were,  is  my  wish  for  you. 
Lo^•ingly, 
Grandfather 
The  flood  of  love  and  memories  this  thoughtful  little  gift  brings  to 
me  is  something  I  will  cherish  as  long  as  life  lasts,  and  each  time  I  look 
at  it  or  touch  it  or  use  it,  I  will  remember  my  gentle  grandmother  with 
her  lovely  crown  of  silvery  white  hair,  and  all  the  beauty  her  life  portrayed. 
I  know  my  life  will  be  made  richer  because  of  one  little  silver  thimble. 
Page  277