[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: 253 Cancer Education, Research, and Service Rutherford L. Ellis]
Cancer  Education,  Research,  and  Service 
Rutherford  L.  Ellis 
Chairman,  Board  of  Directors,  American  Cancer  Society 
CTATISTICIANS  tell  us  that  in  1962  about  275,000  Americans  will  die 
of  cancer;  that  over  the  years,  the  disease  will  strike  in  approximately 
two  of  three  American  families.  Lifting  from  mankind  the  burden  of 
cancer's  immense  tool  is  one  of  the  greatest  challenges  that  face  humanity. 
The  American  Cancer  Society's  Annual  Educational  and  Fund-raising 
Crusade  helps  to  meet  these  challenges. 
There  has  been  encouraging  progress.  This  year  marks  the  25th 
anniversary  of  the  following  two  significant  e\ents  in  the  American  strug- 
gle to  conquer  cancer: 
1.  Enactment  of  a  National  Cancer  Institute  Act  which  created  the  National 
Cancer  Institute. 
2.  Launching  by  the  American  Cancer  Society  of  its  first  Nation-uide,  pubhc 
education  campaign  out  of  which  was  to  come  a  broad  program  of  education,  research, 
and  service  through  vohmtary  support. 
The  year  1962  has  been  designated  ''Cancer  Progress  Year."  The  ob- 
jectives of  the  National  Cancer  Listitute  and  the  American  Cancer  Societv 
in  this  year  will  be  to  report  to  the  public  on  where  science  now  stands  in 
cancer  research,  to  intensify  the  efforts  being  made  to  persuade  the  public 
to  act  for  its  own  protection,  to  improve  the  care  of  the  cancer  patient,  and 
to  step  up  all  programs  to  speed  the  final  victorv  over  cancer. 
There  are  now  1,100,000  Americans  ali\'e  today,  who  have  been  cured 
of  cancer.  This  means  they  are  alive  without  evidence  of  the  disease  at 
least  five  years  after  diagnosis  and  treatment.  An  additional  700,000  can- 
cer patients  diagnosed  and  treated  within  the  last  five  years  will  live  to 
enter  the  ranks  of  those  we  call  ''cured."  However,  about  87,000  cancer 
patients  will  probablv  die  in  1962,  who  might  have  been  saved  bv  earlier 
and  better  treatment.  These  needless  deaths  are  a  tragic  reminder  that  we 
must  redouble  our  efforts  in  this  great  fight. 
Join  with  the  two  million  volunteers  of  the  American  Cancer  Society 
and  "To  Cure  More,  Give  More." 
Doing  Good 
Catherine  B.  Bowles 
The  day  is  ended. 
Have  you  offended 
Someone  along  the  way? 
Were  burdens  made  lighter. 
Did  the  sun  shine  brighter, 
For  the  weary  and  worn  today? 
Page  259