[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Fiction | Title: Timber | Author: Kingsbury]
° K Timber As Related by Ilene H. Kingsbury HEN I was just out of my teens I went to Pine Valley Mountain, in the Southern Utah country, to cook for the lumber hands. I lived in a tent and arose at four each morning to cook the usual potatoes, eggs, pork, and sometimes pie, for the hearty breakfast. This is a land of giant pines. Some of them were hauled by ox team to be used in the famed Tabernacle organ in Salt Lake City. Almost everyone in our part of the Southwest has a pioneer bedstead, chair, or butter churn made from Pine Valley pine. This mountain of trees is where the pioneers got their lumber for what we now call our priceless relics. One day the logging hands were hungrily eating, when one of them mentioned a large pine standing by itself near the fork in the road. In fact, it was in the direct path of logging wagons going to the mill and could be called a nuisance. One man said he wished the miserable thing was out of the way. Another stated he was sick and tired of going around it. Half the time he nearly turned his wagon over trying to miss the thing. At that point I set down a pan of once-over eggs and announced that I could fell that tree myself. Well, you should have heard that tent full of men laugh! A girl! Saw that giant! "Well, PIl give you twenty dollars if you fell it!" yelled Jake, the camp spendthrift. "Tl take you on that!" I said. Whereupon they all shouted, slapped each other on the back, and were soon quite ready to take sides on this newest of challenges. "Why, I'll even give you twelve days to do it in," Jake promised. "Tl take you on that, too," said I. "But you'll have to fell it down canyon so it will be easy to haul off," he said. "Tl take you for that, too," said I again. What a rash team we both became! Then, thinking twenty dollars was not much for all the sawing I'd have to do, I said quite carelessly, "Guess I'll get the lumber from the tree, if I fell it." 'This, more like a statement than a question. Jake felt so sure of himself, he let go with both barrels, so to speak, and spoke out, "Sure you can have the tree. And what's more, I'll even haul it to the mill. And what can be sawed out of it, you can have!" You can see how deep both of us were in this rash dare together. At this, I thought the men would die laughing. Annie, and a saw, and that tree, they cried. Whoever heard of such a thing! All for twenty dollars. Why, Annie, you can't lose money that way! Listen, *This is a true incident in the life of Annie Carter Johnson of St. George, Utah. She was born in 1877, the daughter of William Carter who turned the first sod for irrigation in the Salt Lake Valley in July 1847. Mrs. Johnson is the only Utah woman credited with making a full page in Life magazine (September 6, 1954), with her poem "'Water," which was also published in the Congressional Record. Page 248 you don't make much more than that all summer! On they went. At about that moment the boss signaled for a start to the wagons and the men trouped out, each convinced that Jake's twenty was safe, for sure. Well, I turned to Sam, the lad who ran the dairy herd on the mountain, and I said, "Go find me a good four-pound broad ax. I want to try it out. If it's sharp, maybe I could get a start before time to peel potatoes for supper." — Sam reluctantly sharpened the ax, but warned me that no woman could strike off one chip from that 'huge, lonesome pine. _ "Want to offer me some money?" said I. But he must have seen the look in my eve, for he shrugged and lleft the subject: dangling. I HEN I was sure all the men were out of sight and 250 wouldn't get back for a couple of hours, I took the ax and started up the road. As I neared the tree, it loomed larger than I'd ever remembered it. No wonder it was still growing on the hillside. Must have been two yards through the center from the level at which I would saw. Or hack... Or whittle... Or scratch. You can see by this time it was making me dizzy just to sight up the bark to its branchless top — eaten off by porcupines. I circled it a time or two, then, with arms outspread and pressing my body close to the trunk, I measured nearly four times around it. Almost, just almost, I admitted it wasn't worth twenty miserable, backbreaking dollars to slave over this ancient piece of forest. I figured it must be as big around as our dinner table at home in the valley. At that moment I swung the ax up to rest it on my shoulder to carry it back to the cook shack and figure out how to raise the money to pay Jake on the only dare I had ever made. But, at that instant, there came Jake himself, jogging on top of a loaded wagon. He positively leered. 'That look decided me! Well, he saw me strike the first blow, and I trusted he would hang around for eleven more days to see this giant crash downhill. I swung, I hacked, I panted, and all my labor merely dented the crusty bark. I little more than etched a line where I planned to part this pine in two. The chips looked pretty small and scattered. I knew then that ax swinging was not for me. So, really shouldering the ax this time, I strode resolutely back to my RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 cooking. One day was gone already, and the chips wouldn't have started a camp fire. After breakfast the second day, I said to Sam, "Get mea whipsaw. I must get on with that tree." At that Sam gave me up as a lost cause. "Whoever heard of one person using a whipsaw?" Well, I guessed I'd lick this somehow. Late afternoon came, and still no plan developed. But when Sam came around with an old, battered, rusty whipsaw and shook his head as a final warning, I thought I had it at last. E got it sharpened, which took the rest of the day until after supper. 'Two days gone by on the tree felling and ma an inch of trunk exposed to view! I told myself not to mind the teasing of the lumberjacks, as they gave up for the night and mosied off to the bunkhouse to sleep. Poor Sam was beginning to take a conscientious view of this affair. By now he was as determined as I that the pine would come down; however, he was entirely unprepared to receive my most profound plan. You see, a whipsaw is long and slender — six or seven feet long, and with hook teeth. It has two handles, one on each end. It ls meant to be used by two men, each srasping a handle, as they stand in a pit dug around the tree. They brace themselves and pull and push and press and strain, and, in due time, the sawdust gathers in little slopes beneath the blade. The great triumph is reached when the fibers I of the tree can no longer keep the — living patriarch upright. With great TIMBER noise of splintering and crashing it falls to earth. It measures its length where for centuries its shadow only has caressed. The soil. But note, it takes two men to bring it down! And I was only a gitl of twenty with never a saw in my hands before. HAT night I gave it another try, so to speak, and while I was putting some milk on a shelf for the cream to rise, I bumped my elbow, and spilled some milk, and had to wipe it up. That bump against the shelf nudged forth the idea — why not make a shelf for the saw to rest on, that is, the other end from my end. Or, since the saw had two ends, each with a handle, why not have the shelf long enough to rest whatever end I was not using at the moment. How perfectly wonderful, I said to myself, maybe this is sort of an invention! The next day, the third of the challenge, after breakfast I got Sam to help me build just such a shelf next to the tree about waist high. After that I had to go back to the cook shack to work. By now Sam just as good as told me I was addled in the head. In the interest of time, he reasoned, I had already lost one fourth of it in just thinking. When the men came in that night they let me know that the bench I had made by the tree was pretty good and would be a nice place to sit and read in the shade, but would cost me twenty dollars as a season's retreat. I said not a word in self-defense. And Sam, to his credit, didn't give me away. On the fourth day after my early chores, I stalked up to the tree with 251 a sort of Paul Bunyan stride. The whipsaw glistened in the sun and its teeth gave promise of good work as they caught my skirt with a sharp snag. 'Then, looking around to see that no one was near, I laid the saw teeth to the tree, the far end on the shelf; and threw my weight on the handle to give it the first push. It worked! The idea, I mean. It worked, as back and forth I pulled and pushed. In hard spots I walked around the tree to the shelf end of the saw and jerked it back through a stubborn section. I worked fast, I worked frantically. Before long, small streams of sawdust were flowing from the lengthening scratch in the bark. I think the smell of the damp, living tree slivers was the sweetest perfume I had ever inhaled. Nothing could stop me now. After an hour of this pulling, hauling, and running from on2 end of the saw to the other, Sam called up the hill that I better get on down and mix the dough for tonight's bread. I looked at the size of one hour's sawing and realized that already the width of the saw was lost in the gash. (Only the silver ends grew and lessened as I gave my strength to the handles.) I forced it another dozen pushes and pulls and then went down to my cooking. For a moment Sam had me scared. "What if the tree falls up canyon?" he asked. "You won't get your twenty bucks then!" This just showed how little he knew about lumbermen's ways. You don't start sawing until you have decided where the trunk shall fall. I hadn't been in a lumber camp every summer for ten years for nothing. 252 ELL, let's get on by saying that by using every spare moment, and straining every muscle, and after blistering both hands and coming to use out-sized gloves, I knew I could finish that pine in record time. By actual sawing time, it took me three hours and forty minutes to cut through that wooden giant. I don't know how many trips it took me to get to it and hasten back to watch my pots and pans, but it must have been dozens. How happy I was when it lay there, pointing downhill, as Jake had demanded. Why, I just jumped upon its back and ran to the top end, and sat down, laughing all over. I was a little frightened, too, in a way, when I considered how huge it was — over fifty inches across — and how small I was, and how long it had grown there on Pine Valley Mountain, and how, maybe, the Lord just didn't want it ever to be cut down. That night at supper the men were praising me no end for the sawing and jokingly offered to trade jobs with me. I said all I wanted was my money and the lumber sawed out of that big trunk. Right there the whole plan struck a snag. Jake sort of stopped laughing and said he didn't owe me the twenty! I said he did, he said he didn't, over and over, until I was nearly in tears outside and crying like a baby inside. I looked down at my blistered fingers and vowed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 to get that money if I never lived another minute. The upshot of it was that Jake left the camp for a day or two. He just couldn't stand me pestering him night and morning. Finally, he came back expecting the whole thing to have blown over. But when he found I was more determined than ever to collect, and I had the word of all the boys that he did make the proposition, he just had to admit to it. It seems as if, in his mind, a game like that with a girl was for fun! But then, he had never run up against one like me! I made him keep his word, too, about hauling that tree to the sawmill, and by then he seemed pretty cured of the whole affair. And the lumber they sawed out of that controversial pine tree! The company gave me $320 for those boards, and what with the twenty from Jake, that made $340 for three hours and forty minutes work, or about one hundred dollars an hour. I almost gave up cooking in favor of Sawing. They were building Dixie College in St. George at the time, and the carpenters said my lumber went into the stairway in the main building. They were in use for nearly forty years — educated steps, I always thought.