[Vol49 | April 1962 | Sequence: 45 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far Three years ago we moved from Utah to the Northwest. Of course we were lonely and homesick. My dear parents Mr. And Mrs. Neal J. Hillyard sent us gift subscriptions to The Relief Society Magazine and the other Church publications, and they have proved to be very valuable in that they have kept us from straying into the wrong paths. 'The lessons in knowledge of truth and faith in each issue have given us and our home life more harmony and have kept us in touch with those we hold dear. My appreciation and thanks go to Sister Cannon for her lessons on manners and_ attitudes. They are most enjoyable and highly worthwhile to everyone. 'These lessons have been important and useful in our home. The Magazine brings the light of the gospel for us all to see and use. —Mtrs. Evelyn H. Johnson Raymond, Washington I am always interested in the covers of our excellent Magazine. 'These covers give people living so far away a little more insight into the wonderful country that is Zion. I have been a member of the Church for nearly three years, and have been receiving The Relief Society Magazine since shortly after becoming a member. It is my wish that the Magazine will continue to bring happiness to all the homes that it enters. —Yvonne Harbeck Moonah, Australia I wish to thank you for such a lovely, inspirational Magazine. I am a young mother, with three children, and I always get so much to boost my spirits from Relief Society and the Magazine. Sometimes we mothers tend to become spiritually and intellectually dulled from the humdrum routine of household problems, and I am thankful for the Relief Society's choice of lesson materials to help pull us out of our so-called "'ruts'" that we tend to slip into. —Jacqueline Overson Mesa, Arizona Page 234 I love the Magazine, with its wonderful lessons — especially the Visiting Teacher Messages. They seem to be just what is needed at this time. So many sisters tell us, as we do our teaching, "How do the women who plan these lessons know just what we need each month?" I love the counsel and advice given by our General Authorities, and the stories are very interesting to me. —Mrs. M. P. McOmber Hamilton, Montana I was surprised and pleased in reading the "Sixty Years Ago'' page for August 1961 to see the note about the organization of the Relief Society in Kansas City, Missouri, in August 1901, as it was 1903 when my grandmother, Mrs. Malvina T. Chrisp, joined the Church, and I know it wasn't long until she joined our wonderful Relief Society organization. I enjoy the Magazine, and was particularly impressed with the serial "Because of the Word" (concluded in January 1962), by Hazel M. Thomson. I would like to commend the authors, also, of these outstanding stories: ''Aunt Mattie's Retirement List'' (October 1961), by Klea Evans Worsley; "A Feather in Her Hat," (June 1961), by Sylvia Probst Young; and "A Parable for Polly" (September 1961), by Maude Proctor. —Mrs. Mary Taylor Versailles, Missouri I was impressed with the beauty of the November Relief Society Magazine cover, showing a painting of Nauvoo, Illinois. Thank you for printing this and also the beautiful Madonnas featured on the December covers. Each month I am amazed at the beauty and quality maintained throughout the Magazine. 'The literature course has been a great joy to me, especially the opportunity to study America's literature. I am grateful to Elder Jacobs for the wonderful way in which he prepares these lessons. —Joann R. Hoover Junction City, Kansas