[Vol4 | February 1917 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field.
By the General Secretary, Amy Brown Lyman.

[PHOTOGRAPH: ST. PAUL, MINN., RELIEF SOCIETY.]

Northern States Mission.
The St. Paul Relief Society is a very flourishing organization composed of energetic and industrious women. There are thirteen members in the Society, every one of whom has a McAllister Record in her home. This Society has sent one hundred and forty-six names to the Temple.

Sunday, September 24, was set apart as Genealogical Day in the Northern States Mission. Meetings have been reported from the following branches: Indianapolis, Evansville, and Bicknell, Indiana; Springfield and Peoria, Illinois; Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Grand Rapids, Michigan; Minneapolis, Minnesota. At these meetings a great deal of enthusiasm was manifested and following are some of the subjects discussed: "History of Genealogy," "Genealogy Explained," "Temple Building," "Temple Work," "Testimonies of Ancient and Modern Prophets," and "Ancient Prophecies Concerning Genealogy."

Nurse School.
The Relief Society School of Nursing and Obstetrics began the school year on Monday, September 19, with an enrollment of twenty-two. At the present time we have twenty-seven students, fourteen taking the Nurse course and thirteen taking both Obstetrics and Nursing. The course in Invalid Cooking was opened on December 4 with Mrs. Anna Grant Midgley as instructor, and much interest is manifested in this department. The school recently purchased a manikin or hospital doll, to be used as a practical substitute for the human subject in teaching nursing and care of the body. The doll is five feet in length, weighs twenty pounds and is built according to the measurements of an adult body. It lends itself admirably to demonstrations of all sorts such as, bandaging, bed-making, bathing, etc., and is thus a very important and valuable piece of apparatus for our school.

Liberty Stake.
In connection with the Teachers' Department, the Liberty stake has done a great deal of what they have termed "Home Bound Work." This work consists of making special visits to those who are confined to their homes on account of sickness or old-age, and are thus unable to attend their meetings or services of any sort. The object of this work is to take good cheer, hope, and spiritual uplift to those who are lonely and weary. A special committee consisting of twelve members has this work in charge, and during the last year, friendly visits have been made to 368 poor sufferers, and in the two months that have just gone, eighty-two persons have thus been cared for—all this in addition to the regular monthly visits of the teachers. During the year the Liberty stake has been very active in genealogical and temple work and has proceeded very systematically in all phases of the same. On the stake days 1,144 visits in all have been made to the Temple. It is reported that one hundred temple workers have been made ready for ordinance work, one hundred and thirty-nine family records have been placed, and forty family organizations have been formed.

REORGANIZATIONS.

Curlew Stake.
The Curlew Stake Relief Society was reorganized November 4th. Mrs. Mary E. Bennett, the President, resigned her position on account of a change of residence, and Sister Rebecca N. Cutler was appointed to take her place. Sister Bennett had held this position only two years, since the new Curlew Stake was organized, and during this short time has exerted herself early and late to lay the foundation in this new Stake for a vigorous Relief Society. The new Stake officers are as follows:

Mrs. Rebecca M. Cutler, President; Mrs. Annie Daley, First Counselor; Mrs. Mabel Z. Larkin, Second Counselor; Miss Ann Hurd, Secretary; Miss Rhoda B. Larkin, Treasurer; Mrs. Ila Cottam, Organist; Mrs. Mary A. Arbon, Chorister.

Board Members: Mrs. Maggie Bowen, Mrs. Lucy Roe, Mrs. Christina Harris, Mrs. A. M. Seeley, Mrs. Ella Lund, Mrs. Melissa Smith.

Wasatch Stake.
The Wasatch Stake has recently been reorganized. Mrs. Joannah E. Jensen, one of the most capable of our Presidents was forced to resign on account of ill-health. Mrs. Jensen has performed her duties in connection with this office faithfully and efficiently and has always been alert and progressive. At the time the Relief Society Magazine was first launched and the stake presidents were personally obtaining subscriptions, Mrs. Jensen's first subscription list contained 92 names. This is but one instance of the energy and earnestness with which she went about her labors.

Although Mrs. Jensen has seen fit to lay aside her work in the Stake Presidency, we feel sure she will lend her interest and support to Relief Society work in general.

Panguitch Stake.
Mrs. Hannah A. Crosby has resigned as President of the Panguitch Stake Relief Society on account of change of residence to St. George where she expects to devote her time to temple work.

Mrs. Crosby has long been a faithful worker in the Relief Society and because of her spirituality, integrity and devotion to duty she has made an enviable record. Mrs. Crosby's sweet personality and unselfishness have made her exceedingly popular throughout her stake and wherever she is known. Following are the new officers in the Panguitch Stake:

Sarah F. Cameron, President; President Geske Henrie, First Counselor; Matilda Sargent, Second Counselor; Sarah D. Syrett, Secretary; Sarah A. Houston, Treasurer; Minnie B. Gardener, Organist; Annie M. Houston, Chorister.

Board Members: Martha E. Church, Sarah E. Ipson, Thurza R. Lister, Lavinah E. Allen.

Northwestern States Mission.
During the year of 1916, the Northwestern States Mission has more than doubled its membership, as well as its number of