[Vol4 | February 1917 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Home | Title: Home Economics - Bottle-fed Babies]

Home Economics. Fourth Week in March. A. Bottle-fed Babies. In the preceding lesson I emphasized the necessity of maintaining the baby on the breast during the first year of life. In the Great Ormond Street Hospital of London, England, statistics taken over a long period of time show the death rate from dysentery during the hot summer months to be ninety-six per cent in bottle-fed babies. These same statistics will be borne out in all congested districts. The treatment of dysentery in breast-fed babies is a comparatively simple proposition, but with the bottle fed babies the physician is taxed to his utmost ingenuity. Mother's milk is the natural food. It contains unknown elements which we cannot analyze and, therefore, cannot duplicate in any of our milk modifications. Perhaps the principal source of trouble with bottle babies comes from the frequent contamination of the food. In spite of the most extreme care exercised on the part of the mother in the preparation of the food, bacteria will find their way into the milk and produce subsequent trouble. A bottle of milk allowed to stand in the sun for one hour will develop millions of organisms which will cause dysentery or other intestinal disorders. Mothers frequently make complaint at the extreme caution eoforced by the physician in the. preparation of food for the babies if they will just keep in mind this rapid development of bacteria they will realize the necessity for the greatest of care. In order to avoid contamination as much as possible the food for the entire twenty-four hours should be prepared at one time. Six or seven bottles should be obtained, preferably the narrow neck bottles, for reasons that will be seen later. The food should be prepared and put in the bottles and then placed on ice and kept there until feeding time. They should then be placed in hot water to bring them to the proper temperature, and fed immediately. If these directions are followed there will only be necessity for handling the milk once, thus lessening the danger of contamination. A plug of sterile absorbent cotton should be placed in the neck of the bottle to serve as a cork. This keeps out bacteria but allows the entrance of air. The large neck bottles are easier to be kept clean than the narrow neck but you cannot properly cover them with absorbent cotton and are compelled to pour your food from a large container into the bottle at each feeding. The bottles should be scalded thoroughly each morning before filling with the food and rinsed out with a solution of borax water. Nipples should be scalded every day and kept in boric acid solution. If these directions are followed out carefully in the preparation of the bottles and the nipples the danger of contamination is reduced to a minimum and the death rate from dysentery would be greatly reduced. B. Modification of Cows Milk: When the baby has reached proper age for weaning, or when from any cause your physician deems it necessary to wean from the breast, nothing but a modified cow's milk mixture should be considered. The child's food should contain in proper proportion all of the good elements  carbo-hydrates, fats, salts, proteins and water. If any one of these food elements is neglected, although the child may apparently be well, he will, in time, show signs of trouble to the experienced eye. Fixed formulas for the modification of milk are impossible because every child has to be fed according to its weight and condition of nutrition. Guess work in the feeding of babies is responsible for more deaths than the iofectious diseases. A careful estimation should be made by the physician as to the exact number, of calories of food the child requires during the twenty-four hours and the formula should be worked out from this basis. The condition of nutrition must be considered carefully, otherwise, one is very apt to include in the formula too much or too little of one" of the food 
 elements  for example, a fat, flabby baby, slow in teething, slow in walking, yet of over-weight for its age, should not receive as much fat in its food as the child that is thin and emaciated and under-weight. The reason why mothers so frequently have difficulty in feeding their babies is because the formula is not worked out along these lines and the result is that they try every food that is recommended. For a delicate babe they modify cow's milk; they try Eskay's, Mellan's. Horlicks and all of the rest of the proprietary infant foods until finally the child reaches a stage where the physician has to take the case in hand, and there is no more difficult case in medicine than the feeding of such a child. Rickets and scurvy, the common diseases of the second year of childhood  the causes of lowered vitality  are the results of these errors in feeding. A few simple rules will help mothers with normal children. The child should be fed from one to two ounces more than its age in months at each feeding. With the minimum of three ounces and the maximum of eight to the feeding  for example, a child three months old should be given from three and one-half to four ounces of food every three hours; a child six months old should be given from six to eight ounces of food every three burs. The younger the child the greater the dilution of the milk should be. With babies under four months of age I usually begin with the two-thirds milk and one-third water mixture. As the child increases in age the strength of the milk can be increased until at the age of one year the child is getting all milk without any modification. The sugar to be used should be some form of malt, since it is much more easily digested than any other form of sugar. Milk-sugar has been too widely recommended and used. It is very frequently the cause of severe nutritional disorders in childhood. Dextrimaltose is a very excellent form and is most easily assimilated by babies. For the average child from one to one and one-half ounces of sugar should be given in twenty-four hours. Other than these few points no definite rules can be given. A careful record of the weekly gain in weight should be kept with all bottle-fed babies since the scales are the most reliable guide as to when the baby is getting enough or when we are over-feeding. C. Proprietory Foods: There is no doubt but that the proprietary foods play a part in infant feeding. By proprietary food, I mean Mellen's, Horlick's Malted Milk, Denno's, Eskay's, Nestles, Eagle Brand Condensed Milk and the numerous other prepared foods on the market. These foods are all standardized to meet the requirements of babies in general. Since each child must be fed in dividually according to its actual bodily requirements, the impossibility of successfully feeding all babies on these foods can be readily seen. Babies' have a higher tolerance for carbo-hydrate than for any of the other food elements. As a result, these proprietary foods contain in excessive amounts this ingredient at the expense of the others. Occasionally we see a perfectly normal baby that has been fed on one of these foods, but in that case it was just the food that was adapted to that individual condition. Mothers must not feel that because their babies get fat and look well on these foods that they are well. Invariably defects in development can be found. I often have a baby brought to me with the mother boasting that it is a baby reared on proprietary food  careful examination invariably reveals defects of physical development the which lower the child's of vitality. And I might add here, that most obstinate cases dysentery that a doctor is ever called upon to handle are those that have been raised upon the proprietary foods. We get a one-sided development from a one-sided food. In feeding them we shape the baby to meet the requirements of the food instead of shaping the food to meet the requirements of the baby. Look at the pictures of the babies in the literature that you have received from these proprietary food concerns. They are fat babies with large heads, large abdomens, large joints, and almost invariably they have slight deformities of the chest, are slow to walk, slow in teething, and in the second year of life are the first ones to contract the iofectious diseases upon exposure. For these reasons the necessity for careful modification of cow's milk can be readily seen, where it is absolutely impossible to secure mother's milk. A wet nurse will often save a child's life. questions. 1. What is the reason for the higher death rate amongst bottle-fed babes than breast-fed babies? 2. How would you proceed to prevent contamination of the food prepared for your baby? 3. Take an imaginary case of a baby six months old, weigh Discuss in detail how you would prepare his food. fourteen pounds. ing 4. What has been your experience with the proprietary foods? . 5. Have you noticed that the teeth decay early in babies that have been fed on the proprietary foods? Have you noticed that they are slow in walking; that their teeth are slow in appearing; that they have large abdomens, with very frequently naval ruptures? 
 6. Do you not think the proverbial difficulty of getting the baby through the second summer is often due to these mistakes in diet? 7. Let some mother study up the different food ingredients  carbo-hydrates, fats, proteins, salts and water and conduct