[Vol4 | February 1917 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature - The Song or Lyric]

LITERATURE. . Third Week in March. the song or lyric. A song or lyric is an expression of emotion in musical words. It usually bursts forth when "the heart is so full that a drop overfills it." At such times, one is most likely to pour out one's feelings in a song of joy or sorrow, according to the emotion that fills the heart. Most of us depend on others to create for us the songs we sing, but few persons like Bobbie Burns and Stephen Foster, or our own Eliza R. Snow, Chas. W. Penrose, Emily Hill Woodmansee, Emmeline B. Wells, Parley P. Pratt, Orson F. Whitney, Henry W. Naisbitt, John Jacques, and Evan Stephens, have the gift to sing like the meadowlark, their own feelings in their own way. Such gifted persons become a voice for all, expressing the emotions of others, stirring their souls, and shaping their sentiments. It is truly a wonderful gift  this art of song writing, and it is one that may be used for good or for ill. Three things characterize the best songs: music, feeling, and word beauty. In our choicest lyrics, the words seem to flow like liquid silver. Read aloud these lines and listen: "Soft o'er the fountains, Lingering falls the southern moon, While o'er the mountains Breaks the day too soon."  From Juanita. And to these: "O my Father, thou that dwellest In that high and glorious place, When shall I regain thy presence And again behold thy face?" Voice these songs in full, or take other sweet songs, such as "Annie Laurie," "O awake, my slumbering minstrel," "O ye mountains high," "Down on the Suwanee River," "Love at Home," and observe how the words melt into one another, as the beautiful sentiments and pictures of life are expressed. The true song does not tell a story. It simply sings. Nevertheless, a story is usually suggested by the song. For example, in "My Old Kentucky Home" are these lines: "Bimeby hard times comes a knockin' at de door, Den my old Kentucky Home, goodnight. Weep no more, my lady, Oh weep no more today, We will sing one song for my old Kentucky Home, For my old Kentucky Home far away." No story is told here, yet between the lines one can read the tale common to the times of slavery, when the negroes were sold from a happy home and sent far away down the river. In their song, they are trying to console their mistress. BALLADS. In some songs the story is even plainer than this. It is sketched for us. Such songs are called ballads. The ballad is a song story, or a story told in song. In earlier times, the ballad was very popular. Many of our old legends like those about Robin Hood have been brought down to us in the form of ballads. A fairly good illustration of the ballad is the old song, "Mistletoe Bough" or "Nellie Gray," beginning, "Oh my darling Nellie Gray, they have taken her away," etc. But whether the story is sketched, as in the ballad, or merely suggested as in other songs, this seems true: Back of every song there lies a story. It may be so hidden that one cannot easily find it, nevertheless, it is there. Some incident of life, some train of events, generally leads up to the writing of a song. Instances to illustrate this point are numerous. 
 We feel the pathos and the pain of renunciation as well as the calm of death expressed in the exquisite hymn of Henry W. Xaisbitt  written on the death of his close friend, President Joseph Young: Rest for the weary soul, Rest for the aching head. Rest, on the hillside, rest, With the great uncounted dead. When Cardinal Newman was once returning from a visit to the Holy Land, he lay on his cot one night on the deck of the steamer as it was plowing its way through the Mediterranean sea. The good man had been distressed with religious doubt and uncertainty; was now ill of body. As he lay there tossing in discomfort, he saw off through the gloom a little star towards which the vessel seemed to be going. As he watched it, a feeling of sweet calm came over his soul, and out of it came this beautiful expression: "Lead, kindly light, lead thou me on, The night is dark, and I am far from home, Lead thou me on." Find the remainder of these two great songs and enjoy them with the story just told to help enrich the meaning of its musical lines. One gets an added beauty with any song when one knows something of the story that lies back of it. Our appreciation of "Home, Sweet Home" is enhanced when we know that John Howard Payne wrote the song while he was wandering alone in a foreign land. We get a keener thrill from the stirring lines of the "Star Spangled Banner," when we realize that the author, Francis Scott Key, wrote them while he was a prisoner on the deck of a British warship. He had watched all night with anxious heart the fate of the battle that was raging around him. When the morning broke to show the old "red, white and blue" still waving above the ramparts, he drew from his pocket a letter, and on this he penned the words that have thrilled the hearts of true Americans ever since. The beautiful stories that lie back of many of our own hymns give them new light and meaning "Come, Come, ye Saints" was written by William Clayton, at the request of the great Prophet-leader, President Young, as a song of cheer to shorten the weary stretches of the plains, and to give added courage to those hearts to dare the hardships of that desert march. The soul-stirring history of the Latter-day Saints is easily read in their hymn book, when one learns how to read the story that is between the lines of their songs. So, too, may we hear the heart beats of the Hebrews of old in the songs that inspired the Bible. When Moses, for example, had delivered Israel from bondage, when Pharaoh and his host had been destroyed, the people, under the leadership of Moses, broke into an anthem of praise and rejoicing beginning thus: "I will, sing unto the Lord, for he hath triumphed gloriously,  Exodus. The horse and the rider hath he thrown into the sea." When Hannah is given a son, in answer to her pleadings with the Lord, she breaks forth into a song of rejoicing and praise. David, too, when Saul and Jonathan are slain, expresses grief in a great song of sorrow. And Deborah sings her martial strain of victory while Mary voices motherhood for all time in her Magnificat. All through the Holy Book are found other songs that reveal the feelings of the people. "Our sweetest songs," says Shelley, "are those that tell of saddest thought." There is much of truth in what the poet says. Songs like "Old Black Joe," "Way Down Upon the Suwanee River," and many others of our most beautiful songs are suggestive of sorrow. We love to sing these sadly sweet songs; but there are many other songs we should also sing that are not at all sorrowful  songs like "The Lord is my Shepherd" and "O my Father" are sublimely beautiful and full of comfort. We need more pure songs of good cheer. A rollicking song of innocent fun is a tonic to the weary heart. The trouble with our so-called funny songs too often is this: they are suggestive of evil and are sometimes vulgar. Such songs are out of place anywhere; yet, they frequently find their way into our homes, where they sow their poisoned thoughts and false sentiments. There is no more important work before the parents than that of selecting the music that goes into their homes. In these days when the choicest songs are available, there is no excuse for feeding our hearts on any but the purest and the best. In choosing the songs for our homes, we should always put them to this test: What pictures of life, what sentiments, do they bring to our minds and hearts? Music may lead us to heaven or to evil places; it depends upon the music. "Give me the privilege of writing the songs of a people, and I care not who makes their laws"  a saying of one great philosopher. Let this be our third guiding principle: The songs that find their way into our homes mast suggest pure stories and uplifting sentiments. LESSON OUTLINE. 1. What is a song? 2. Why may the song-writer be called "a voice for all?" 3. Who among our own people have earned this title by 
 creating beautiful songs? Name some of these poets and tell what are their most popular songs. 4. What characterizes the words of a beautiful song? Illustrate by quoting a line or two from some song you love. 5. What is meant by this remark? "Back of the song there lies a story." Illustrate by telling the story that some song suggests to you, or by telling how some author came to write a certain song. For example, what story is suggested by "School thy Feelings," and "Oh, say what is Truth," and "Hail to the Prophet." 6. How does it help a song to know the story that is connected with it? 7. Show how the history of the Latter-day Saints is reflected in some of their hymns. 8. Show how the song is used in the Bible to express the feelings of the people of Israel at certain times. 9. What is the danger in many of the songs that are being sung today? Where do they come from? 10. What practical steps can be taken to get purer, more uplifting songs in our homes? LESSON IV.