[Vol47 | May 1960 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Fiction | Title: The | Author: Porter]
Vanilla ingredients, alternating with Bake Bake at 375° for The Golden Years Maggie Tolman Porter sidered to be three score and ten. If we accept this as standard, then all the years above seventy, we shall call the Golden Years. Just how are we to spend this precious bonus? Far too many of us spend it in self-pity, discouragement, vain regrets; and too many of us dwell only in the past, with no plans for the present or the future. When we have no longer a goal to reach, no ambition to achieve, no interests to take our time and efforts, we may become senile, for we cannot remain static. We must progress, or we retrogress. In simple words, if we wish to keep all our faculties, we must use them. <A muscle soon becomes weak and flabby if we cease to exercise it. So it is with the mind; if we cease to use the faculties God has given us, we retrogress. During the Golden Years life may be filled with desires to achieve and accomplish things for which l 1 HE full hfe of a man is conone had no time while rearing sons and daughters. Then each day and hour seem shorter, more precious than the yesterdays. It seems that there is a gleam of a diamond-studded dawn as each golden day is born. 'The desire to accomplish keeps us young. This formula for growing old gracefully has been of great worth. Of greatest importance is to make your peace with God. Cherish the testimony that Jesus is the Christ, truly the Only Begotten of the Father, that he was resurrected; that we will live after death. Know that he hears and answers prayers. He may say "No" to many of our requests, because of our lack of wisdom in asking, just as we, as parents, refuse the unwise demands of our children. To have our prayers answered, we must have a positive approach, and, first and last, add ""Thy will be done, not mine alone, dear Lord." That is faith, but faith without works is dead, so the Book of Books tells us. Do everything within your THE GOLDEN YEARS power to help the Lord answer your petition. If you ask him to bless the poor, the suffering, and those in sorrow, go out and do something to help them yourself. It may be only a word of encouragement, attention to some neglected child, a loaf of fragrant home-baked bread, a glass of your favorite jelly, a telephone call to some homebound person, less fortunate than yourself, either friend or stranger. That is works. We are really old when desire is gone. A desire and will to accomplish something keep us young. Something within that driving power helps us to grow old gracefully. Don't dwell on your aches and pains and let them absorb all your thoughts and conversations. We all have ailments, and remember, they are no worse than we think they are. Don't worry and give up too much to those pains and aches. Pray for strength and courage to bear them with a minimum of complaining. 'They are a part of the golden years. Of importance, also, is the word SEIVICE. Granted, we may not be able to do much manual service for anyone. Perhaps we are even beyond giving service to ourselves We may be chair or bed patients. 'There is still service awaiting us. Write cheery letters to loved ones and to the sick and sorrowing, and to friends. The hand may tremble, but write anyway, or, if possible, use the typewriter. You will find it fun to peck it out with one finger, if you are not fortunate enough to have had experience in typing. The secret is: Do something for 311 someone and forget yourself and your miseries. If you are in tune with the Infinite, you will be led to write and say words of wisdom and love to comfort those whom you contact. Love is the key. Have your heart so filled with love for all mankind that there will be no room for hatred, jealousy, bitterness, discouragement, or remorse, which are all negative attributes. Fill your soul with positive ones, instead. One sad part of our golden years is that many of us must spend those years alone. Our life's companion may have been called home. 'Thrice blessed are you when you can sit in the golden gloaming, side by side. Cherish each other, be understanding, tolerant, and loving. We have been building our memories for the golden years each day of our lives. It is truly up to us what that harvest of our memories will be. 'They have a way of creeping upon us in our solitude. Pleasant memories bring us uncounted pleasure. Sad, regretful memories bring sorrow and tears. Our life is like a garden. We reap what we sow, whether it be joy and satisfaction, or regret and tears. Have we planted the rose of forgiveness, the bright-faced pansy of pleasant and loving thoughts, the seeds of truth and virtue and love for God and mankind? If these we have tenderly nurtured as the years have glided by, they will be joy and comfort and peace to us as we fall asleep on the Saturday eve of our last Golden Year. Standing Pat Frances C. Yost LAIR Seaton frowned at Pat, her teenage daughter. "Well, I think you could at least dry the dishes!" "Wish I could help you, Momie darling, but I just have to get to the first game." Pat gave her a peck on the cheek and in her usual gay, carefree way, ran from the house. Alone, with her hands in the dish suds, Clair made a mental rehearsal of every move Pat had made since she breezed into the house after school. Pat had thrown down her coat, scarf, books, then turned on the radio rather loudly not to miss any of the latest "pop" tunes. 'Then she had spread herself a generous slice of bread, butter, peanut butter, and jam, and sat down to read the funnies, laughing occasionally above the din of the radio rock-and-roll music. Funnies read completely, Pat had pulled out the ironing board, pressed her cheerleader outfit, then shined her shoes. 'Then she enjoyed two prolonged telephone conversations with friends with whom she had spent the day at school. By then supper was on the table, and Pat had managed not to turn her hand toward helping. Well, this isn't going to continue, Clair thought as she bent over the sink. She just isn't going to get away with it. Pat used to be a good worker around the house, and I'll just have to see that she helps more now that she's older. Since the dishes are up to me to do alone, I might as well get going, Clair sighed. Page 312 The sigh was heard in the living room, where her husband, Mel Seaton was reading the paper. Mel dropped his paper reluctantly and came into the kitchen. He put his arms around Claitr's waist, as she stood at the sink. "Whats the matter, Momie?" Mel asked. Clair wished Mel wouldn't call her "Momie," when the children weren't around. "What's the matter, Momie?'" he repeated. Clair sighed again. "I'm just tired, I guess. Mel, do you realize I haven't had an ounce of help from Pat since the basketball season started?" "I'm not at all surprised," Mel rejoined. "When I was on the main basketball team in high school, my family didn't see me at all, unless they came to a game and watched me on the floor. Clair, what say we take in the game together tonight?" "Mel, don't you realize I'm worn out from doing every bit of housework myself. Anyway, I don't understand basketball as you do." "You don't have to understand all the plays to enjoy it. Just count the baskets each side puts in. Easy as that! Why you haven't seen a game all season." "But, Mel, I have the mending to do this evening and." "The mending will keep, Clair. You're going to the game tonight and watch Patty lead the Pep Club." WF OOK HE superintendent was giving some form of welcome as Mel and Clair Seaton walked into the STANDING PAT gymnasium. They had just found seats in the center of the balcony, when their own hometown, the Lincoln High, band started plaving "America," and the spectators all arose. 'Then it was that Clair saw her. Pat came through the big front door of the gym carrying a very large silk flag. It was on a long pole, which must weigh pounds and pounds, yet Pat carried it regally, patriotically, reverently. Patty had never mentioned that she was the flag bearer. But Clair had never asked her, either. Immediately behind Pat were three girls. Yes, Clair knew them, Karen, Nancy, and Sue, the other cheerleaders. They were, like Pat, dressed in white satin full-gored dresses and wore the red school emblem on the front. The cheerleaders were prancing sort of like high-stepping horses in time to the music, and in step with Pat, a little ahead. 'To the very center of the gym Pat came with the beautiful flag flowing behind her. Then they all stood, and Pat led the whole gym full of people with the salute to the flag. Clair felt her eyes brimming, as she placed her hand over her heart. How long had it been since she herself had pledged allegiance to the flag? "One nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all." 'The words were as beautiful now as she had thought them when she herself went to school. Now the game was commencing. The two teams, their own Lincoln Tigh and the opposing team, the Bickel High, were running on the floor, and everyone was cheering. The two referees in black striped suits came forward, and tossed the ball in the center of the floor. Clair 313. Could see both teams were out to win. Why this was equally as exciting as a three-ring circus. Clair looked over toward the cheering section to see if she could see Pat. 'There she was, motioning for a cheer. What were they shouting? A tisket, a tasket, put the ball in the basket. Come on boys pitch it in, may the best team win. Clair could hear Pat's vibrant voice above the others. May the best team win, she repeated. Why that was right sporting of them. She would have to remember to tell Pat what a nice cheer that was. 'They certainly were being good sports. About it. EL had said for her to keep her eye on the ball. She looked back and saw Lincoln High's own Max Sheldon, the big boy who played center, had the ball now. He was pitching it; it fluttered over the basket, and then dropped in. Everyone sighed. "Yea, Max! Yea, Lincoln High!' the cheering section shouted. Pat's voice was familiar to Clair above the others. Clair glanced at the scoreboard. Lincoln High had the first two points anyway. Oh, oh, Bickel High had the ball and was making. A basket. Back and forth the ten boys worked retrieving the ball, pitching it, retrieving and pitching. But Lincoln High wasn't making baskets. It was as if someone had put an invisible lid over the Lincoln High basket and the ball just couldn't go in. Clair looked at the scoreboard. My goodness, Bickel High had passed Lincoln High! 'The. 314 score was ten, two. Clair wrung her handkerchief. Something had to be done! But Pat was doing something about it. She was leading with a cheer! We have a coach who is the best The very best coach in all the West. We have a team that's genuine. Come on boys, we've got to win. Clair wondered if the boys heard the cheering on the floor as well as she could, but they must have heard, because they immediately made a basket. Clair turned quickly to look at the scoreboard, but the score was disheartening. Bickel High eleven, Lincoln only four. 'Then the whistle blew, and it was the end of the first quarter. There were Pat and the other cheerleaders stepping out farther on the floor and doing a clever routine. Clair watched them breathlessly. It was beautiful, like a ballet dance, but they were doing it to band music. 'They were singing the Lincoln High School song. Clair found herself singing along, too. A person should sing more, it was good for the soul, she thought. It was then that Pat noticed her with Mel up in the balcony. Pat smiled broadly, and waved a little personal wave of her own, special for Clair. The second quarter was beginning. The referees were holding the ball for the jump. If only something could be done to spur the Lincoln High boys to score and catch up. Then Clair heard Pat's familiar voice at high C pitch shouting a cheer. The cheering must help. Lincoln had made another basket. Clair was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 glad she and Mel were seated in the center balcony where she could see so well. She watched every movement of the ball. A basket for one side, a basket for the other, but always Bickel High seemed to keep that good margin ahead. 'Then it was the end of the half. Clair looked at the scoreboard. Bickel High was eighteen, Lincoln trailing behind with twelve points. LAIR looked over at Pat. She hoped she wouldn't take the score too hard. Winning meant much to Pat. But Pat was smiling, a sort of fixed showmanship smile, and she was leading the marching club onto the floor. This was why Pat had stayed so long night after night at school. The girls marched down the floor in perfect step, perfect formation, sort of like soldiers. When Pat whistled the marching team changed positions. Now they were forming four rows and marching off the floor. Now the second half of the game was beginning. Clair looked at the scoreboard again, but Bickel High was still those six points ahead of them. She found herself saying the words under her breath. "Our team must win." Clair heard the Pep Club shouting. She turned and watched Pat leading the cheer, her voice clear and strong. Why the cheering really must help the players, for after each yell it seemed the boys pitched a basket. Who had made this one? Yes, it was big Max Sheldon again. Now they were doing fine team work. 'The Lincoln High boys were putting in basket after basket. STANDING PAT After each basket Pat was shouting: "Yea Max, Yea Charles, Yea Kenny!" CLAIR looked around for the boys' mothers. But they didn't seem a be here. They should be here to enjoy the glory heaped upon their boys. How could she herself have missed so many games when her being here meant so much to Pat? Then the dreadful thing happened! Max, the big wonderful center, fell. 'The game was temporarily stopped. The coach rushed from the bench to where Max lay, unable to get up. Even Clair knew what this meant to Lincoln High. What was Mel saying? "He's their best player. They can't get along without Max Sheldon." The people started rushing onto the floor, but the coach was saying, "Stand back, give him air." Then Max was carried from the floor. The coach over the loud speaker said that it was a sprain, nothing serious, but that Max could not play the rest of the game. Little Mike Roper, a junior, was replacing big Max Sheldon.