[Vol47 | May 1960 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Fiction | Title: When]
[When Parents Play Ruby Dee Christensen 342]

There I was, crumbing an unbelievably great amount of bread, helping to mix it together with some other ingredients, so that the result would be a nice dressing for the turkeys. The kitchen was filled with activities, busy women went about doing their tasks, I could not see them, neither hear them, but I knew they were chatting. By the sense of smell and touch, I could tell what some of them were doing. One of them came to talk to me; when people are talking to me, they have to use their hands, and this woman had some very wet and cold hands, so I knew she was cleaning vegetables. Then, too, another woman, not very far from me, surely was grinding onion, because my tears kept running, although I was especially happy that day. J thought to myself as I stood there stirring in this mountain of dressing, they told me that this dressing was to be put in the turkeys, but to me it seems that the turkeys must be put in the dressing! That thought was so funny, that I could not help smiling. A woman must have been watching me, because she came and asked if I was having fun. Soon I was on the move, I would 1, TOO, WANT TO BE USEFUL find myself at the stove, stirring in a huge kettle, and before I knew it, I found myself with a terribly dangerous bread knife in my _ hand, shredding lettuce. Yes, I thought, they really have confidence in me, since they will trust this awful thing in my hands. Now I was neither in the way of others nor sitting in a comfortable chair, with my hands idle and only 319 my own thoughts for company; now I was an important wheel in big machinery. 'The very thought made me happy I have been lucky in meeting people with the right attitude, and 'm so grateful that I, too, can be of some use, in a small way maybe, but the little wheels are as important as the big ones, are they not? A Case for Contrast Evalyn Miller Sandberg Brown moments may be made to serve a purpose. Suppose you were an artist with a brush: Would you paint all your lines with equal accent And never add a shadow's restful hush? Could you portray upon the stage a story So simple that it had no plot to solve? Would you compose concertos or crescendos Without soft modulation to resolve? Brown moments may be made to serve a purpose. Like moving shadows of a bird in flight, They make time's course from dawn to fading sunset And add new depth to scarlet-tipped delight. O<—-- Crossed WVires Genevieve Van Wagenen NE of the late model cars has a clever little gadget or safety device which signals when one goes beyond the desired speed. If you are driving in the city, you set it for thirty miles per sos Should you go over the thirty miles, light flashes and a little buzzer rings until you slow to the proper speed. Thus you avoid difficulty with the law. We, the people of this modern twentieth century generation, came equipped with a wonderful safety device -—— the same as all previous generations. This safety device has been called '"'conscience" and the "'still small voice.' Call it whatever you will, its purpose is to remind us to be honest and deal justly with our fellow men. It is a most valuable instrument. It develops understanding, brotherhood, and love. It insures peace and harmony — that's what we all want! But too few people ever hear the gentle buzzing of this delicate instrument. They have their wires crossed with a gadget called "'greed'"' and "selfishness."