[Vol47 | May 1960 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: I Too | Author: Vaieland]
[I, Too, Want to Be Useful Aslaug S. Vaieland]

In case of complete disagreements among the judges, all stories selected for a place by the various judges will be submitted to a specially selected committee for final decision. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 In evaluating the stories, consideration will be given to the following points: a. Characters and their presentation b. Plot development c. Message of the story d. Writing style 9. Entries must be postmarked not later than August 15, 1960. 10. All entries are to be addressed to Relief Society Short Story Contest, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. Strom a Canyon Retreat Pansye H. Powell O God, from concrete streets and brick-lined squares We come to thee, Laying beside thy purling stream our cares, For one day free. Between these cottonwoods we see thy sky A clearer blue; This flowering verdure that thy brook flows by Takes deeper hue. The smallest canyon rock, the aspened peaks That, encircling, tower, Witness thy presence, and each one bespeaks Thy unmatched power. Now over all thy peace broods like a dove Upon her nest; And not a jarring sound disturbs what love Has surely blessed. May beauty, peace, and rest we find today Be truly thine, That when we leave here we may take away Something divine! Orchids in the Snow CHAPTER I Rosa Lee Lloyd HARON Haskell opened her S eyes, stretched her arms, and looked dreamily at her beloved bedroom. Frothy white curtains crisscrossed her window where the early morning sun was a pinkish mist; a golden filigree tray with perfume bottles glistened on her ivory dressing table, and the long French muirror with the pink taffeta bow at the top, completed the room especially designed for an adored twenty-oneyear-old daughter. Suddenly her face crumpled and she covered it with her hands. 'Tears came achingly. She was going away. She was leaving all these precious things and the people she loved; her twinkling, witty mother, her big, generous-hearted dad, and Kenny, her fifteen-year-old brother who was a teasing rascal at times but adorable anyway, really adorable. And Aunt Jewel, too. Dear, thoughtful Aunt Jewel. She could not bear to leave them. And yet, she was overjoyed to go! Today was her wedding day! Her dark eyes flew to the Dresden clock on her bed table. Six o'clock. In two hours she would be in the temple. In exactly twelve hours she would be standing beside her husband, Samuel David Wynter, in front of the rose-banked mantle downstairs in the living room. By this time tomorrow morning they would be on their way to Sun Valley for their honeymoon. A little sigh of joy whispered through her tears. Two weeks alone with Sam in beautiful Sun Valley before they flew to Alaska where they would make their home. Sam had accepted a position as instructor in the engineering school at the University of Alaska in Fairbanks. A little tremor of apprehension went over Sharry. Aunt Jewel had warned her that there was a housing shortage in Fairbanks and that living conditions were very different from those in Salt Lake City. But she refused to worry about it. Aunt Jewel, she thought tenderly, didn't have children of her own, so she had given Sharry and Kenny all her pent-up motherly affection. She was a professional nurse and had cared for her parents until they died last winter. Sharry's engagement, her bridal parties, her temple marriage this morning, and her wedding reception tonight had given Aunt Jewel the joy of her lifetime to be a part of it all. She lived in Sharry s romance and happiness. Everyone in the ward loved Aunt Jewel, Sharon thought, and everyone hoped that she would marry some fine man now that she was free from the family burden she had carried since she was a young girl. Aunt Jewel was only forty-four, two years younger than Daddy, who was her brother. She was still slender and queenly fair, especially in her white cap and uniform. Sharry wished Aunt Jewel would go to ward parties and have fun instead of working so hard all day and staying home every night. "You need a change, Jewel,' Page 293 294 Mama had said one day last week. "You must reach out for happiness and love." "I know," Aunt Jewel had answered. "I know I should go out more, Mary. But there is so much to do, so many sick people who need me. Then I'm too tired at night for parties." Mama had nodded, understandingly. "You've been so loyal, Jewel. So self-sacrificing. But now—please go out more, meet new people. Have some of the things you deserve. You've earned a little happiness, dear." "But I am happy, Mary!" Aunt Jewel had protested. "I love my work—it is everything to me." Mama had smiled her knowing little smile. "No woman can be completely happy who hasn't known love, Jewel," she said. "Give yourself a chance for that happiness." Kh ok ok oo OW Sharon pressed her tear-wet eyes with the palms of her hands, then reached for Sam's picture on her bed table. Why did she love him so deeply? She asked herself, wonderingly. He wasn't exactly handsome. His red hair was too bushy. Even last week when he was honor guest at the dinner his fellow engineers had given for him, he was very wellgroomed in his new dark suit, but his hair was a red bush. She had never seen him in a hat. Did engineers wear hats in Alaska? She wondered, or fur caps or ear muffs? And would Sam's bounce off his head because of his hair? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1960 Her finger lovingly traced the outline of his nose in the picture, still a little crooked where a baseball bat had struck him when he was ten. But his eyes are wonderful, Sharon thought, blue and honest and genuine. And she loved the wide, generous curve of his mouth. "That boy will always be good to you," Mama had told her when they became engaged in April. "He has good eyes and a kind mouth and a chin like the bow of the Queen Elizabeth. But don't push him too far, Sharry. Don't pout and want your own way all the time. Men with bushed-up red hair and chins like that have a will of their own, even when they love as tenderly as Sam does." Yes, she thought, Mama is right. Sam has a will of his own. She had seen him angry only twice in the year they had gone together, and both times had been her fault. She had sulked because he had been gone so long on a consulting job with the Twin Mining Company in Colorado. She had been jealous because his work was so important to him. From now on she would take Mama's advice and not argue with him about it. She held the picture close to her heart, remembering what her chum Marge Barlow (who was to be her maid of honor tonight) had written on the card with her wedding present: "May your life together be a path of roses." Oh, Marge, she thought, as she placed the picture back on the bed table and put on her robe, our life will be a path of roses. How can it help being so when we love each other?