[Vol43 | October 1956 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: The | Author: Stock]
She Lords Unit Janice Stock belong to the best unit in the I ona I call it Rho Sigma. But why the blank looks? Had I said N. L. U. Or Idaho Club or Y. C.'s there would have been recognition in your eyes. You may think that it is a new unit. It is, here on the Bngham Young University campus. 'This is its third year, but I am surprised that you haven't heard of it, for it has been in existence since 1842 and is known all over the world! Yes, I mean world, for there are few countries and languages which do not know Rho Sigma. It is not a religious unit, or a service unit, or a departmental or social unit, but is a well-balanced combination of all four. In fact, we may say that the Thirteenth Article of Faith is our creed: "We believe in being honest, true, chaste, benevolent, virtuous, and in doing good toallmen " Indeed, true charity is the soul of our unit "If there is anything virtuous, lovely, or of good report or praiseworthy, we seek after these things." In this unit I have found those things which every true Latter-day Saint seeks: a strengthening of my testimony through reading and studying the Scriptures, and an appreciation and deepening of my testimony through hearing the testimonies and experiences of others. Have you ever heard of a unit which converts others to the Church? Mine has converted many. One of our members had her Page 678 testimony strengthened and _renewed by attending our meetings. She enjoyed our unit and used the principles to such good advantage that her roommate who was not a member became curious and was impressed to ask more about the Church. After attending some of our meetings and being thrilled by what we were doing, she gradually became better acquainted with the Church and soon joined it. But this is more than a religious unit, we offer service, too. In fact, service is emphasized at all times. We are interested in the welfare of the individuals in our group and in helping them we strengthen the group as a whole, for we are not just a name but an active organization. 'Those who receive as well as those who give in this unit are benefited morally and spiritually. UT, in addition to these praiseworthy characteristics of religion and service, we offer a departmental program. We _ better ourselves through the great literature, sociological, and domestic knowledge of the world. Over a period of time we cover the world's best literature. In the field of sociology we have studied mtan's problems, psychology, politics, and our relations with others. We prepare ourselves to be better wives and mothers through the best ways to manage a household and understanding what constitutes a real home. We were given an example one day in meeting THE LORD'S UNIT of how an economical, practical, and versatile wife can be a profit to her husband. He would have to invest $40,000 in order to receive in dividends each year the money his wife could save him. 'That shows how important a capable wife is. ES, here we learn of those things virtuous, lovely, and of good report. But what of some recreation and social life? Doesn't all work and no play make Rho Sigma a dull unit? Oh, but we have a social side, too. Almost any day of any week we can join with members of the Phi Epsilon unit in making and preparing articles for those who are less fortunate than we. We have an organized singing group which sings at parties and programs. We have dinner dances, buffet suppers, bake sales, and exchanges with the PhiEpsilon unit. So, you see this unit combines all the good of the social, departmental, religious, and service units into one well-balanced whole which keeps the unit always interesting, yet always changing. This well-balanced combination of social activities, service, and knowledge is not just for my benefit here at school. I can belong to my unit and benefit from it the rest of my life. It will broaden my spiritual and mental capacity, and thus make me a fitting partner for my companion and help me become a worthy Latter-day Saint. It. Has been said, "When you educate a man, you educate an individual, but when you educate a woman you educate a family." Men need to 679 learn specialized work to enable them to support their families, but we women should learn all we can in the most important fields, if we want to take our part well and strengthen our husband's place in the community. We are the hub of the home, and our duties are to rear families, to teach our children correct principles to live by, and to give them broad backgrounds and strong foundations with which to meet the world. We ate prepared for this very well by my unit, for it gives us many opportunities to become well-rounded individuals. Through my affiliation with this unit, I will fnd members wherever I go during my life, for we can belong all our lives wherever we are, and can receive instructions from headquarters and induce others to join. One of our members, after graduation, was married to a man whose work took them to a foreign country. They didn't know anyone and had no connection with the community except through the husband's work. The wife was very lonesome and bored, and you can imagine her joy and surprise, when members of the unit called on her and invited her to join them in the same effective, uplifting program she had known during her college days. Surely, such a comprehensive unit with all these benefits, should be very selective and limit its members. It doesn't. Every girl on campus can belong. 'There needs be no selection, for this unit appeals to only the best girls. There is no initiation; the lack of money is no bartier; in fact this unit is the least expensive of any unit or sorority in 680 the world. A half dollar will pay for all the activities in one year. There are no "secret sisters'; all will be "helpful sisters," who will help me be my best and not hinder me because they want the higher positions. There will be no falling away because of the demands of families or because we grow old and do not resemble so much the former coeds; no disappointments at college reunions that others have grown so old and uninteresting or seem to be pursuing their lost youth. For those who grow old in this unit gain wisdom and knowledge and hidden stores of spiritual beauty which grow more lovely and desired with the years. The unit does not weaken at graduation with a few alumni meetings which become fewer and fewer with the affiliation becoming RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 smaller. Instead, it grows stronger and stronger with the years, and the membership grows with it. It grows into a true sisterhood, with love and charity for all, and those who remain true to this unit remain true to the ideals of Christ. You can see I really have something! A unit which is a combination of social growth, education, religion, and service. It is so beneficial that its effects will be with me forever, and every woman in the Church can belong to it everywhere. Where else would you get a combination just like this, to interest a girl in her teens and a wife and mother in her later years? 'To promote the common good and personal welfare of all? Where else but in Rho Sigma, or by its better known name: RELIEF SOCIETY. > Prelude to Winter Miranda Snow Walton The purple grapes hang heavy on the vine, A pumpkin patch lies bursting with its load: The pasture fence is blue with columbine, And goldenrod grows tall beside the road. The whir of combine and of reaper calls Across the ripened fields, and sheaves of wheat Stand waiting, while the hazy sunlight falls Upon a land whose harvest is complete. But when the ground lies barren in the snow, And ghosts of roses only dream rebirth, When frost has seared the fields, and wet winds blow, What recompense can winter bring to earth? The answer comes with each succeeding day: The joy of work well done, the quiet peace Of softly falling snow, the hearth fire's ray, And faith which gives a saddened soul release. Yes, he who sows good seed, need have no fear When harvesting is done and winter near. Heart's Bounty CHAPTER 5 Deone R. Sutherland Synopsis: Annie Griffith, whose father, with his family, has been called on a mission to the mountains to cut stone for the temple, is living with the Willams family in Salt Lake City, where she ls being educated, with Marie Williams, under the direction of a private tutor. Light-hearted Marie is an _ indifferent scholar, but Annie makes a fine record in all her studies. Both girls are interested in Parker Josephson, a neighbor, who returns from three years of study in the east to find the girls grown up. Marie has assumed that Parker is in love with her, and that eventually they will marry. However, it is Annie whom he seeks out. Arrangements are made for Parker to teach at the university, but he receives a call to fulfill a mission in the Hawaiian Islands, and leaves for three years. Annie is offered a teaching position at Walton Academy in Salt Lake City, but, since her parents have moved back from the mountains to their farm north of Salt Lake, Annie returns home and becomes a teacher in the Davisville school. At Christmastime Annie attends Marie's marriage to Billy Johnson. HE following winter Aaron Davis, old Mrs. Davis' grandson, returned home from a mission to England. His grandmother had once been employed by the Queen of England. After she and her husband had joined the Church and decided to travel to America and then West to Zion, the Queen reluctantly had let her go. But she gave Mrs. Davis a pension for life, and even now old Mrs. Davis received her publications and mail from England. So she was more than thrilled when one of her favorite grandsons fulfilled a mission in her native country. Needless to say, she was proud and happy to see him return home. His father operated a small mill and farm in the settlement just below the old Davis house. Annie grew more used to her role as school mistress for her little school. The children were alert and responded eagerly to Annie's guidance. The second year was offering more rich rewards than Annie had hoped. She really felt that these children would someday bring credit to their heritage. Aaron Davis stopped in at the school to bring his thirteen-year-old sister home with him on his horse. Sister Davis had introduced him to Annie. At first Annie had felt great timidity toward the crusty, stiff little lady from England, but, gradually, she had found the generous heart beneath. "I want to present my grandson, Aaron." The old lady had smiled. "Annie has heard us talk of nothing but you for months, Aaron." "I've heard very nice things about Sister Griffith," Aaron had replied in turn. After that there were frequent accidental meetings between Aaron Davis and Annie Griffith. She greeted him at church, and he met her family. He asked once if he might accompany her to church, but she assured him that it would be out of his way, and, since her parents always attended, there was no necessity for him to make the long trip. Aaron Davis danced with Annie as many times as she allowed at the ward parties, but there was no quesPage 68] 682 tion but that she would just as soon dance with her brothers. One afternoon Annie sent her brothers home immediately after school to help their father with the chores. She remained as she felt the room should be straightened and some work made ready for classes on the next day. After some time she looked up with a start and realized that it was almost dark. By now, no doubt, her father was carrying in the milk pails and helping her mother spread the cheesecloth and strain the milk. She thought of the steam curling up from the pans on the back porch. They would certainly be finished with dinner before she got home. She put on her coat and mittens and wound her heavy woolen scarf about her head and throat. The snow had been coming down intermittently all day. She had better get started at once. UDDENLY, Aaron Davis was standing in the schoolroom door. "I've been waiting to ride home with you, Annie. 'The snow might be a little deep for your Baldy to cope with." "There's no need,' Annie protested, feeling the color in _ her cheeks. "I've ridden home in deeper snow than this." "Grandmother said you should stay the night, but doubted if you would. So it will really make her feel better, if I don't let you go off alone. It's a little later than you usually leave, and she's afraid it will be quite dark before you get home." Aaron Davis wound his muffler tighter and pulled on his gloves. There was nothing for Annie to do RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 but follow him out to the barn for their horses. The snow was deep, and, except for shouted comments on the best path to follow and how deep the snow in the gulch looked, there was little conversation. When Annie reached her own home, both she and her horse were quite exhausted. "Will you come in and warm up a little before you start back?" Annie asked. "With pleasure. Care of the horses." Aaron put them in the barn while Annie removed her boots on the back porch and went in to warm herself. In a few minutes Aaron Davis followed. The boys enjoyed Aaron's jokes, and her mother and father appreciated company any time. When he was asked to eat supper with Annie, he never hesitated. The boys were shooed off to: bed, and Brother and Sister Griffith sat in their rockers by the fire and enjoyed the stories Aaron had to tell about England and the many converts he had met. When he rose reluctantly to start back, Annie's parents spoke warmly of how much they had enjoyed his company. "I should like to come again," Aaron said to Annie at the door. "I'm sure my parents would be very happy to have you visit any time." Annie could not look at him. "What of you, Annie?" Aaron Davis waited a moment for her reply. In a very low voice Annie said, "I am not sure that it would be honest of me to urge you to visit >? Me. 4 Here, I'll take HEART'S BOUNTY "You are engaged to someone else?" Aaron asked in surprise. "No, but I met someone else once, and I haven't forgotten him. I have little reason to hope that he remembers me, but it wouldn't be fair to you to let you think." "I'm willing to take my chances," Aaron said firmly. "I can't do anything else except wait for him," Annie said miserably. "I'm sorry, Aaron." "[m going to say goodnight," Aaron said. "But I can't pretend that I don't hope that things will turn out differently from the way you indicate they may now. I have had a wonderful, if dashing, evening anyway." He managed to smile and shake her hand briefly in partIng. NNIE worked very hard with her teaching the rest of the year. One of her most promising older students was beginning a preparatory course for higher education. He hoped someday to become a doctor in order to serve his community, and Annie worked very hard with him, giving him personal help far beyond her strength or time allowed. She wanted him to be able to go out as well prepared or better prepared, perhaps, than other students with whom he might compete. — "You are wearing yourself out," Mrs. Davis said indignantly to Annie when she was later and later getting away from the school. Annie's face had paled, and her thinness showed in her face and hands. "Summer will be good for you. All work and no play is not what our Church recommends for anyone, young lady. You are not 683 being fair to yourself. And you are not fair to the young men who would enjoy dancing with you and calling at your home. You know I have the finest grandson.' Annie spoke in a very low voice, "That's what my parents tell me all the time, Sister Davis." The old woman cleared her throat. "Well, don't let me add to any of the problems you're already wrestling with. 'The spring sunshine, perhaps, will change your heart." Annie rode her horse slowly home. Her solitary figure going through the fields of snow had now become an accustomed sight for the farming people. 'Tonight she rode slowly because she felt she must think. The snow was at last beginning to thaw. It was a late spring. Her parents had begun to urge, more strongly than ever, that she be not so blind to the good qualities of Aaron Davis. And, if to him, then not to be blind to the virtues of other young men who were equally worthy. Marie had written of the many undreamed joys she had discovered with the birth of her first baby. And now she was expecting her second. Annie knew she could not deny herself the richness of life that was to be found only in a family of her own, but what of Parker? It was already a month past the expected date of his arrival home, and there had been no word of him, no sign. Annie felt somehow that if he really had come home to Zion, her heart would know it. He had been delayed. Perhaps they needed him in Hawaii for a longer time than was expected. It was a long time to 684 remember a person anyway. She should have forgotten him as he must have forgotten her. How untroubled he had been over Marie's marriage; how did she know but that he would be equally untroubled over her own? Her heart protested at the thought. NNIE corrected papers at the kitchen table while her mother fried mush for their supper. None of them claimed it as a favorite dish, but, when too much was made in the morning, they had to eat it at night. No food was ever wasted. Annie leaned her chin on her palm and closed her eyes. She was almost too weary to see the columns of figures before her. 'The children were so discouraging sometimes, and then, at other times, so rewarding they made her want to shout for joy. This was one of the discouraging times. Perhaps her own hidden agitation reflected somehow in the work her students had done that day. "The ward is having a May Day picnic and a dance in the evening." Her mother leaned over the stove. "I think we should all go and enjoy ourselves." "Of course," Annie said. The waiting must come to an end sometime. On Saturday Annie drove her father's team and wagon into the settlement to pick up a part of his plow he was having repaired. He could not spare the time, and Annie had an errand to do for her mother, anyway. The spring thaw had really set in now, spring had rushed upon them pell-mell in its eagerness to make up for lost time. The mud in the roads was more than RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 ankle deep in places. She walked carefully along the board sidewalk holding her dress up from the brown spattered path. 'The blacksmith loaded her father's plow repair on the back of the wagon, and then helped her up. Just as she swung into her seat, Sister Showers from the General Store hurried out, tying her bonnet as she came. "Annie, Annie, wait a moment." She stopped at the edge of the sidewalk. "Brother Showers says there was a man here not more than an hour ago asking for you. He asked where you lived, he did.' Sister Showers' eyes were bright with curiosity. Annie's heart had given a sudden leap, but then she forced back the surge of joy she had felt for a moment. "Thank you very much. It was probably someone about 'Talbert Wilson's scholarship next year. Yes, that must be it." Sister Showers nodded her head slowly. "Probably that was what he wanted. Said he'd come from Great Salt Lake City. He was a mighty fine looking fellow, Father said. He's probably on his way out to your farm now. So long, see you May Day, Annie." Annie backed the wagon slowly and started the trip back. The plow part rattled lonely in the back of the wagon. She refused to let herself consider that it might be Parker Josephson. And yet she could not bear to think that it might not be he. ANNIE heard Parker's voice the moment she entered the house. She leaned against the back door listening to the murmur of voices coming from the little parlor. Her HEART'S BOUNTY heart hammered so that she could not trust herself to move forward. Her hand brushed at her windblown hair. She was standing like that when Parker came to the door and saw her. Her mother was calling out. "Annie, is that you? Friend of yours who has come quite a distance to see you." Parker stood in the doorway, looking across the kitchen, across three years into her eyes. Annie leaned against the door, with the color high in her cheeks and her dark hair curling against her forehead. She was filled with incredible shyness. 'Then Parker came to her and took her hands in greeting. Why, Parker's hands were as cold as her own! She looked up to meet the laughter dancing in his eyes. 'The day was full of joy. Parker was home, really home. "Tve been telling your mother about myself. It seems you haven't told her nearly enough about me. Or perhaps I took too much for granted?" "No, you did not," Annie replied softly. She tried to move away, Here's a> 685 but Parker still held her hands. He was peering so intently at her face that she could not look away. "Well...." Annie's mother stirred in her chair. "I'll just go start our dinner. I hope you'll stay and join in our dinner with us?" "I would like to very much," Parker said, as he followed Annie into the parlor. "I've been looking forward to this meal for over three years, so you can see how much I'll appreciate it." "Well, you just make yourself at home." Annie's mother was already thinking about what vegetables she would need out of the dirt cellar. "IT have a feeling I'm home at last," Parker smiled at Annie. "Come on, we'll help your mother cook a homecoming dinner." Annie's mother watched them making their way to the dirt cellar, jumping the puddles hand in hand. Such young laughter, thought Annie's mother. She nodded her head contentedly. So full of happiness that sound was that it made her smile to hear it. She now understood why Annie had had no interest in other young men. (To be concluded) —~ L Shank Shee Caroline Eyring Miner I thank thee, Lord, for little things: The kettle on the stove that sings; A baby's cry; the dimpling pool Where raindrops splatter; and the cool Dark shadows when the day is bright; The stars that prick the cloak of night, And pin the sky so it won't fall; The wondering eyes of children; all The little sceds that lift the sod And tell the secret that is God. FROM THE FIELD I~? Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Hs ratgas se Last % SSO Re RE ORR A peers a Re; i SOUTHERN FAR EAST MISSION, CLARK AIR BASE (PHILIPPINE ISLANDS) RELIEF SOCIETY ORGANIZED Front row, seated, left to right: Maxine Taylor (Ogden, Utah), Second Counselor; Marlene Gifford (Emmett, Idaho), President; Verda Rice (Mesa, Arizona), First Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Hazel Jensen (Great Falls, Montana); Nina Staples (Mesa, Arizona), Secretary-I'reasurer, Darleene Masonheimer (Blackfoot, Idaho). The first meeting of this group was held at the home of Maxine Taylor, and plans for the work of the organization were outlined. The members, coming from widely separated areas in the United States have found a common sisterhood as Relief Society women united in friendship and service. Luana C. Heaton is president of the Southern Far East Mission. Page 686 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 687 Photograph submitted by Vivian R. McConkie ENSIGN STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH), NORTH EIGHTEENTH WARD VISITING TEACHERS DINNER Seated, center: Eva B. Groesbeck and her sister Bell Barton. Seated, left to right: Louise Widmer, a convert from Germany; Georgia V. Stam, a convert from Holland; Hazel Spencer, visiting teacher message leader; fifth from the left: Charlotte Spencer, a convert from Germany, in charge of lunches; twelfth from the left: Noonie V. E. Garfield, a convert from South Africa; sixteenth from the left: Mary Schindler Neilson, guest reader; seventeenth from the left: Dorothy Y. Dye, guest soloist; eighteenth from the left: Susanna Kruys, a convert from Holland, Magazine representative. Standing, left to right: Annie M. C. B. Overdick, a convert from Holland; fifth from the left: Nina W. Poole, chorister; left to mght, from Sister Poole, Relief Society officers: Maud T. Harrison, Secretary-Treasurer; Blanche S$. Haymond, First Counselor; Ruth Lillian W. Harris, President; Virginia D. Young, Second Counselor; Elva T. Cowley, Stake Relief Society Counselor; Katherine S. Smith, work meeting leader, and twentieth from the left: Donna Y. Cook, author and reader of original poem. President Harris reports: "Two former visiting teachers, Eva B. Groesbeck, eightynine years old, and Bell Barton, eighty-seven years old, were honored on this occasion. Both have served the Church throughout their long useful lives. Sister Groesbeck has given sixty-eight years of service as a visiting teacher, commencing her Relief Society work at the age of seventeen, at which time her mother was released as president of the Eighteenth Ward Relief Society. Bell Barton learned to sew at the age of seven years, using the first sewing machine brought to Salt Lake City. She is a former instructor in sewing at the University of Utah, and still finishes the edges of our quilts as they are taken off the frames. Both Bell and Eva were born in the little home that still stands on the corner of "'B'' Street and Third Avenue in Salt Lake City, and have lived there until two years ago, when they moved to a small apartment nearby. "All present were inspired by Sister Groesbeck as she expressed her gratitude for her early training in righteous living, and we counted our blessings as we listened to stories of carrying water from the well and milking cows on the grounds where modern apartment houses now stand. "Donna Y. Cook, in an original poem, paid tribute to the visiting teachers. There are eight foreign-born converts to the Church among our visiting teachers, but several were absent when the picture was taken." Vivian R. McConkie is president of Ensign Stake Relief Society. 688 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—OCTOBER 1956 Photograph submitted by Alta Fuhriman NAMPA STAKE (IDAHO) WORK MEETING, April 19, 1956 Kneeling in front, left to right: Clara Adamson; Ella Fair Foster; Helen Young. Standing, left to right: Vella Moon; Mary Ferrell; Winnie Andrews; Mavis Humphreys; Margaret Hook; Carrie Pierce; Larue McKnight; Melba Reynolds, Work Director Counselor; Hyla Clopier, with baby; Oneta Burman; Gladys Egbert, project supervisor; Anna Peay, work meeting leader; Alta Fuhriman, President, Nampa Stake Relief Society. Sister Fuhriman reports that this all-day work meeting was spent in refinishing furniture. Meetings of this type are held in Nampa Stake four or five times a year during the lesson months of Relief Society. Each work director counselor and work meeting leader is invited to attend. Each meeting features a different art or craft, which is later presented in the wards by the ward work meeting leaders. Photograph submitted by Mona H. Brown TWIN FALLS STAKE (IDAHO) VISITING TEACHERS LUNCHEON AND CONVENTION, June 5, 1956 Front row, seated, left to right: Clois Owens (a visiting teacher for thirty years); Katie Clawson (thirty years); Jeweue Cook (twenty-eight years); Jennie Hansen (forty years); Ellen Owens (forty-two years); Jane Gardner (fifty-five years); Lenore Carroll (forty years); Bertha Mae Hansen (thirty-three years); Emma McArthur (forty years); Geneva Moyes (thirty years). Back row, standing, left to right: Goldie Tolman (twenty-eight years); Zenia Egbert (thirty years); Winiefred Whitehead (thirty-four years); Emily Anderson