[Vol43 | October 1956 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Brave | Author: Chandler]
As the soldiers BRAVE MEN AND WORTHY PATRIOTS were about to leave the Indians, a sergeant recognized an excellent horse belonging to a citizen of Salt Lake City. "That's Brother Richard's mare," he said to his comrades, and then, without considering the consequences, he roped the animal around the neck. Quickly, while one of their number tackled the sergeant, the Indians moved into a circle around the soldiers. "Get up," the lieutenant said to the sergeant. "Now listen all of you, we're in a mess. 'There's no time to mount, so leave your horses and follow me and don't be afraid. If you've lived as President Young directed, you'll be protected." Then, throwing his head high, he walked toward the thick underbrush near the position taken by four or five braves. As the others followed him, they heard the twang of bowstrings and the click of gunlocks. Upon each man's lips was a silent prayer, and in his heart Brigham Young's words rang loudly: "I promise you, as a servant of the Lord, that not one of you shall fall by the hand of an enemy." With this assurance to buoy them, these men walked past the Indians and into the thicket. Hours later when they had reached the camp of Washakee, the peace-loving Chief of the Shoshonies, they knelt and thanked God for his protection. Washakee, upon hearing of their misadventure, sent some of his own braves to recover the horses and to punish the Indian who had stolen Brother Richards' mare. Days later, when Lieutenant Knowlton and his men arrived back in camp, they learned that Captain Smith had led another party into Idaho to recover some property that 657 the Indians had stolen from the Government. For days this group lived upon dry bread and the roots and berries they found. As they attempted to cross a mountain stream, a horse fell into a deep pool, and its rider was drowned before his comrades could reach him. His was the only death sustained by the entire company. While the Smith group was still in Wyoming, the company commanded by Colonel Burton was mustered into the service of the United States by the Governor of Utah Territory. While on duty, this company escorted several notable Westerners across the plains. Because of the spring thaw, their task was extremely arduous. At one point the snow and slush were so thick that they had to accompany a Congressman through an area ruled by a band of lawless renegades, some red, some white. In this area they found over a dozen deserted and pillaged way stations, from which they gathered many sacks of mail and sent them to Salt Lake City for distribution. After turning over their command to Colonel Connor and his soldiers, these brave and peaceful men returned to their homes, taking with them the thanks of the United States Government. Of them some latter-day chronicler might have written as Helaman wrote of that similar group of Americans whose story is related in the Book of Mormon. ''Never had I seen so great courage Now they never had fought, yet they did not fear death; and they did think more upon the liberty of their fathers than they did upon their lives... (Alma 56:45) 47). Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1896 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomMeEN oF ALL NatTIONs" RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CONFERENCE: The General Conference of the Relief Society was held in the Assembly Hall in Salt Lake City, Oct. 3, 1896 Mrs. Zina D. H. Young presiding.... President Adeline H. Barber of the Cache Stake Relief Society spoke against murmuring, referred to the recent high wind, said it occurred immediately after a woman's meeting in which the sisters had complained so much of hard times... Lorinda E. Thompson of the board of Millard Relief Society gave an excellent account... And alluded to the distressing sickness (Diphtheria) that had prevailed at Scipio, out of one hundred cases, however, only eight had died... Which seemed remarkable. President Emma J. Bennett, Bingham Stake... Spoke highly of the country, they had rich ranches and lovely fields of grain... Sisters would come eight or ten miles to attend Conference, and bring babies with them. President Ann C. Woodbury of St. George Stake spoke of the great losses sustained in that locality by floods, but did not feel discouraged... Spoke earnestly of the silk industry —E. B. Wells, Secretary WEDDING BELLS So solemn bells ring out the sound! The love of God doth here abound; Like burnished gold gleams all around. Slow from the altar rise the pair, Who have pledged before their God Each joy and ill of life to share. —Lydia D. Alder JEAN INGELOW: Jean Ingelow, the charming English poetess and novelist, is seriously ill and has been very feeble for some time. She lives in a quaint little cottage in Kensington with her bachelor brother, surrounded by her birds and flowers. Her conservatory is twice the size of her dwelling, and one of her favorite pastimes has been to liberate her feathered friends among the flowers while she writes at her desk. In addition to her books of poems, she has written four novels and various works for children. Her poems are refreshing and sparkling, among the best known of which is "We Are Seven." —Selected HELENE OF MONTENEGRO: Princess Helene of Montenegro who is to marry the Crown Prince of Italy, is a poet, and many of her verses have been set to music and are sung by the peasants in all parts of the principality. —Selected AUTUMN: As the cool weather approaches the pleasure seekers forsake the mountain retreats and lake resorts, and are reopening their houses and making ready for in-door pastimes and amusements. The theatre has already opened its doors and some most delightful plays have been given and two very charming concerts are promised for the present week. —Editorial Note Page 658 GRAND DUCHESS CHARLOTTE is the much-admired ruler of Luxembourg, a grand duchy of 300,000 population, where Mrs. Perle Mesta was the former United States Minister. In 1919, after World War I, the people demanded that Grand Duchess Marie abdicate in favor of her sister Charlotte. That same year the right to vote was granted to both women and men past the age of twenty-one. Charlotte and a cabinet of eight ministers hold the executive power in this spirited country, which is very democratic. Grand Duchess Charlotte is married to Prince Felix of Bourbon Parma and has six children. RS. MARGUERITE — RAWALT, National President of the Business and Professional Women's Clubs of the United States, was one of seven attorneys and judges (three women and four men) from widely separated parts of the United States, to be invited by the Bonn Parliament to make a nation-wide visit to the courts of Germany. There she found many eminent women engaged in the legal profession. Among them were noted Frau Dr. Kruger-Nieland, a judge on a ranking patent law court of the Republic, and Frau Dr. Erna Scheffler, a member of the Supreme Constitutional Court.