[Vol43 | October 1956 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Fiction | Title: Womans | Author: Cannon]
Sixty    LJears  J^go 
Excerpts  From  the  Woman's  Exponent,  October  i,  and  October  15,  1896 
"For  the  Rights  of  the  Women  of  Zion  and  the  Rights  of  the 
Women  of  All  Nations" 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  GENERAL  CONFERENCE:  The  General  Conference  of 
the  Relief  Society  was  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Oct.  3,  1896  .  .  . 
Mrs.  Zina  D.  H.  Young  presiding  ....  President  Adeline  H.  Barber  of  the  Cache  Stake 
Relief  Society  spoke  against  murmuring,  referred  to  the  recent  high  wind,  said  it 
occurred  immediately  after  a  woman's  meeting  in  which  the  sisters  had  complained  so 
much  of  hard  times  .  .  .Lorinda  E.  Thompson  of  the  board  of  Millard  Relief  Society 
gave  an  excellent  account  .  .  .  and  alluded  to  the  distressing  sickness  (Diphtheria) 
that  had  prevailed  at  Scipio,  out  of  one  hundred  cases,  however,  only  eight  had  died  .  .  . 
which  seemed  remarkable.  President  Emma  J.  Bennett,  Bingham  Stake  .  .  .  spoke 
highly  of  the  country,  they  had  rich  ranches  and  lovely  fields  of  grain  .  .  .  sisters  would 
come  eight  or  ten  miles  to  attend  Conference,  and  bring  babies  with  them  .... 
President  Ann  C.  Woodbury  of  St.  George  Stake  spoke  of  the  great  losses  sustained 
in  that  locality  by  floods,  but  did  not  feel  discouraged  .  .  .  spoke  earnestly  of  the  silk 
industry  .... 
— E.  B.  Wells,  Secretary 
WEDDING  BELLS 
So  solemn  bells  ring  out  the  sound! 
The  love  of  God  doth  here  abound; 
Like  burnished  gold  gleams  all  around. 
Slow  from  the  altar  rise  the  pair, 
Who  have  pledged  before  their  God 
Each  joy  and  ill  of  life  to  share. 
— Lydia  D.  Alder 
JEAN  INGELOW:  Jean  Ingelow,  the  charming  English  poetess  and  novelist,  is 
seriously  ill  and  has  been  very  feeble  for  some  time.  She  lives  in  a  quaint  little  cottage 
in  Kensington  with  her  bachelor  brother,  surrounded  by  her  birds  and  flowers.  Her 
conservatory  is  twice  the  size  of  her  dwelling,  and  one  of  her  favorite  pastimes  has  been 
to  liberate  her  feathered  friends  among  the  flowers  while  she  writes  at  her  desk  .... 
In  addition  to  her  books  of  poems,  she  has  written  four  novels  and  various  works  for 
children.  Her  poems  are  refreshing  and  sparkling,  among  the  best  known  of  which  is 
"We  Are  Seven." 
— Selected 
HELENE  OF  MONTENEGRO:  Princess  Helene  of  Montenegro  who  is  to 
marry  the  Crown  Prince  of  Italy,  is  a  poet,  and  many  of  her  verses  have  been  set  to 
music  and  are  sung  by  the  peasants  in  all  parts  of  the  principality. 
— Selected 
AUTUMN:  As  the  cool  weather  approaches  the  pleasure  seekers  forsake  the 
mountain  retreats  and  lake  resorts,  and  are  reopening  their  houses  and  making  ready 
for  in-door  pastimes  and  amusements.  The  theatre  has  already  opened  its  doors  and 
some  most  delightful  plays  have  been  given  and  two  very  charming  concerts  are 
promised  for  the  present  week.
