[Vol43 | October 1956 | Sequence: 09 | Category: General Feature | Title: Notes | Author: Pickering]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Margaret C. Pickering]
FROM    THE    FIELD 
Margaret  C.  Pickering,  General  Secretary- Treasurer 
All  material  submitted  for  publication  in  this  department  should  be  sent  through 
stake  and  mission  Relief  Society  presidents.  See  regulations  governing  the  submittal 
of  material  for  "Notes  From  the  Field"  in  the  Magazine  for  April  1950,  page  278,  and 
the  Handbook  oi  Instructions,  page  123. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  ACTIVITIES 
Photograph  submitted  by  Luana  C.  Heaton 
SOUTHERN  FAR  EAST  MISSION,  CLARK  AIR  BASE  (PHILIPPINE  ISLANDS) 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  ORGANIZED 
Front  row,  seated,  left  to  right:  Maxine  Taylor  (Ogden,  Utah),  Second  Counselor; 
Marlene  Gifford  (Emmett,  Idaho),  President;  Verda  Rice  (Mesa,  Arizona),  First 
Counselor. 
Back  row,  standing,  left  to  right:  Hazel  Jensen  (Great  Falls,  Montana);  Nina 
Staples  (Mesa,  Arizona),  Secretary -Treasurer;  Darleene  Masonheimer  (Blackfoot,  Idaho). 
The  first  meeting  of  this  group  was  held  at  the  home  of  Maxine  Taylor,  and  plans 
for  the  work  of  the  organization  were  outlined.  The  members,  coming  from  widely 
separated  areas  in  the  United  States  have  found  a  common  sisterhood  as  Relief  Society 
women  united  in  friendship  and  service. 
Luana  C.  Heaton  is  president  of  the  Southern  Far  East  Mission. 
Page  686

NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
687 
Photograph  submitted  by  Vivian  R.  McConkie 
ENSIGN  STAKE  (SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH),  NORTH  EIGHTEENTH  WARD 
VISITING  TEACHERS  DINNER 
Seated,  center:  Eva  B.  Groesbeck  and  her  sister  Bell  Barton. 
Seated,  left  to  right:  Louise  Widmer,  a  convert  from  Germany;  Georgia  V.  Stam, 
a  convert  from  Holland;  Hazel  Spencer,  visiting  teacher  message  leader;  fifth  from  the 
left:  Charlotte  Spencer,  a  convert  from  Germany,  in  charge  of  lunches;  twelfth  from 
the  left:  Noonie  V.  E.  Garfield,  a  convert  from  South  Africa;  sixteenth  from  the  left: 
Mary  Schindler  Neilson,  guest  reader;  seventeenth  from  the  left:  Dorothy  Y.  Dye,  guest 
soloist;  eighteenth  from  the  left:  Susanna  Kruys,  a  convert  from  Holland,  Magazine  rep- 
resentative. 
Standing,  left  to  right:  Annie  M.  C.  B.  Overdick,  a  convert  from  Holland;  fifth 
from  the  left:  Nina  W.  Poole,  chorister;  left  to  right,  from  Sister  Poole,  Relief  Society 
officers:  Maud  T.  Harrison,  Secretary-Treasurer;  Blanche  S.  Haymond,  First  Counselor; 
Ruth  Lillian  W.  Harris,  President;  Virginia  D.  Young,  Second  Counselor;  Elva  T. 
Cowley,  Stake  Relief  Society  Counselor;  Katherine  S.  Smith,  work  meeting  leader,  and 
twentieth  from  the  left:  Donna  Y.  Cook,  author  and  reader  of  original  poem. 
President  Harris  reports:  "Two  former  visiting  teachers,  Eva  B.  Groesbeck,  eighty- 
nine  years  old,  and  Bell  Barton,  eighty-seven  years  old,  were  honored  on  this  occasion. 
Both  have  served  the  Church  throughout  their  long  useful  lives.  Sister  Groesbeck  has 
given  sixty-eight  years  of  service  as  a  visiting  teacher,  commencing  her  Relief  Society 
work  at  the  age  of  seventeen,  at  which  time  her  mother  was  released  as  president  of 
the  Eighteenth  Ward  Relief  Society.  Bell  Barton  learned  to  sew  at  the  age  of  seven 
years,  using  the  first  sewing  machine  brought  to  Salt  Lake  City.  She  is  a  former  in- 
structor in  sewing  at  the  University  of  Utah,  and  still  finishes  the  edges  of  our  quilts 
as  they  are  taken  off  the  frames.  Both  Bell  and  Eva  were  born  in  the  little  home  that 
still  stands  on  the  corner  of  "B"  Street  and  Third  Avenue  in  Salt  Lake  City,  and  have 
lived  there  until  two  years  ago,  when  they  moved  to  a  small  apartment  nearby. 
"All  present  were  inspired  by  Sister  Groesbeck  as  she  expressed  her  gratitude  for 
her  early  training  in  righteous  living,  and  we  counted  our  blessings  as  we  listened  to 
stories  of  carrying  water  from  the  well  and  milking  cows  on  the  grounds  where  modern 
apartment  houses  now  stand. 
"Donna  Y.  Cook,  in  an  original  poem,  paid  tribute  to  the  visiting  teachers.  There 
are  eight  foreign-born  converts  to  the  Church  among  our  visiting  teachers,  but  several 
were  absent  when  the  picture  was  taken." 
Vivian  R.  McConkie  is  president  of  Ensign  Stake  Relief  Society.