[Vol43 | October 1956 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: Our | Author: Murbarger]
Our Cabin Had a Porch Nell Murbarger OST homestead shanties M were about the size and shape of a railroad box car, and just about as inelegant in appearance. A single door, one or two small windows, an unsheathed stovepipe; and not one in a hundred had felt the stroke of a paintbrush. But our homestead home — even though it conformed closely to the general pattern — was a home of distinction. Our cabin had a porch! We always referred to it as "The Front Porch" — a high sounding phrase which seemed to imply that somewhere in the immediate environs there might be also a back porch. But, of back porches there was none; and even The Front Porch was not exactly pretentious. Its roof, tar-papered like the house, ran the full length of our fourteenfoot cabin, and was supported by undressed two-by-four studdings; its front was enclosed by woven wire netting, stretched from floor to roof, and its pine board floor sloped a little to the outer edge so water might drain off more quickly after summer rains, or following the vigorous weekly scrubbings Mother gave it with a broom. After serving through the winter as a semi-protected storage space for stovewood cut in the cedar breaks, The Front Porch came into its own with the first warm days of early summer. Before the end of May, the wire netting front would be Page 666 covered with a heavy green curtain of wild cucumber vines and morning glories. Butterflies and bees, in their everlasting search for pollen and nectar, utilized the vines as their central headquarters; and even tiny hummingbirds _ occasionally sought the cool seclusion of the greenery. After several weeks of coaxing, supported by all sorts of ten-yearold logic, Mother finally would concede that the season was well enough advanced that a little girl might sleep safely out of doors — a decision followed immediately by the delightfully adventuresome business of moving my cot to the narrow, green tunnel of The Front Porch. I doubt if any explorer embarking for darkest Africa was ever more thrilled by that prospect than I would be on this first night of summer freedom as I donned my nightie in the cabin, then hurried outside to slip between the delicious coolness of the smooth muslin sheets! A yellow square of lamplight, pouring through the cabin's east window, would spread across the middle of my cot until Mother and Father sought out their own bed, and the flame in the kerosene lamp was extinguished. FTER that, I would be alone by myself, in my little leafy world; alone, yet never alone. All my friends of the prairie night would OUR CABIN HAD A PORCH be there to keep me company. From the stock dam, in the draw, would be issuing the throaty croak of frogs, and, under the porch boards, crickets would be strumming their fiddles. There would be the gentle, satisfied sounds of cattle and horses stirring in the nearby feed lot; and, if a coyote voiced his lonely wail in some distant coulee, there would be a low, answering whine from Zip, the collie — a sad little whine which seemed to say that she heard and understood this strange call of the wild, and might have responded, could she have done so without forsaking her post of duty at the foot of my cot. Every rustle of leaves meant that some prairie mouse was foraging for crumbs and seeds, or that a drowsy bird was changing his position in the vines; and sometime, during each night, would sound the plaintive, hesitant call of a billy owl. Placing my cupped hands to my lips, in the way Father had taught me, I would answer the little brown creature; and for several minutes we would "talk" back and forth — a prairie girl to a prairie bird. One night, when I was still a very small girl, my mimicry was good enough that I succeeded in calling one of the little owls to the house. Approaching, closer and closer, he finally settled on the porch floor with a soft flutter and turned his head to regard me quizzically, almost as though he were wondering what sort of creature it