[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | July | Issue: 3 | Title: OUR GOD AND HIS PROPHET. | Author: L. L. GREENE RICHARDS,]

OUR GOD AND HIS PROPHET.

Our God—the God of Abraham,
   Isaac and Jacob, Prophets true;
The Great Omnipotent I Am:
   Let earth proclaim Thy praise anew!

Taking unto Thyself Thine own,
   Thy people mourned a Prophet dead;
Yet when twelve days had scarcely flown,
   Thou gav’st another in his stead.

Let Saints extol Thy name, and praise
   Thy matchless power to guide and bless;
Thy wond’rous work, in latter-days,
Thou cuttest short in righteousness.

Thy Prophet, as in days of old,
   Into Thy Temple dost repair:
Thy love doth marvelous light unfold,
   In answer to his fervent prayer.

With mighty faith he humbly kneels,
   To ascertain Thy holy will:
Thy grace the sovereign mind reveals;
   Thy promises Thou dost fulfill.

The vail ’twixt Thee and man withdrawn,
   Thy people understand and know,
In place of Wilford Woodruff, gone,
   Thou gavest them Lorenzo Snow.

By Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, 
   John Taylor, Wilford Woodruff, all,
He's nobly stood and labored 'mong
   Thy chosen people, great and small.

No truer friend hath Prophets known,
   No truer Prophet Saints need seek,
Than he to whom Thy mind is shown, 
   And by whose mouth Thy voice doth
	speak

One like to Moses, faithful proved,
   With sight undimmed and form erect, 
For more than eighty years, unmoved—
   Shall nations scoff? Will Saints reject?

"A full, free tithe the Saints must pay,
   From this time on”—God’s just demand:
Hear it, repeat it, and obey— 
   Ye Saints of God on every hand!

Thus doth the Prophet’s voice declare;
   So shall the Saints be justified;
Shake off the burdens, hard to bear,
   Of self-will, covetousness and pride.

Look to the God of Abraham,
   Ye Saints, and heed His Prophet’s voice;
Honor and serve the Great I Am,
   And in His covenant rejoice.

Spread Zion’s bound’ries far and wide,
   Her Center Stake redeem and build;
So shall our God be glorified, 
   His Prophet’s words be all fulfilled.

Let Zion’s children know and tell,
   Near and afar, where’er they go,
There is a God of Israel,
   Whose Prophet is Lorenzo Snow.
			   L. L. GREENE RICHARDS,
Sunday, July 2nd, 1899.


[Column 1]
