[WomansExponent | Vol28 | 1899 | July | Issue: 3 | Title: KATE PLATTE WALKER. | Author: Unknown]

KATE PLATTE WALKER.
	Died.—In Oak City, Millard Co., Utah, March
25, 1899, Kate Platte Walker, wife of Simeon Walk-
er and daughter of Henry and Mary Ann Roper.
	She was born on the Platte River, at Red Butte
Station, Sep. 23, 1859. Her sickness was of short
duration, but her suffering was intense; still her
faith never wavered, and she had great faith in
the ordinance of the Gospel for the healing of the
sick. The Elders were frequently called in, and
many times her sufferings were greatly relieved.
	She was permitted to see the beauties of the
world she was going to, and described them to
those around her; also told of seeing some of her
friends who had gone before. 
	Her husband and children could not resign
themselves to part with the wife and mother they
loved so well, and clung to her, praying God to spare
her to them, till she begged them to give her up
and let her spirit go in peace. Much sympathy is
felt for her aged father to whom she was devotedly
attached, and for her sweet little babe only six
months old. Father, sisters and friends will do all
they can for the little one, but a mother’s love she
will never know.
	Sister Walker was a member of the Relief Soci-
ety, having served as a teacher for fifteen years.
She also belonged to the ward choir and the Y. L.
M. I. A., and was a great favorite generally. Her
place cannot be filled. She was the mother of
nine children; two she has with her, the others are
left to mourn her loss.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
	Whereas the Ruler of all has in His wisdom re


moved by death from our midst our beloved sister
and friend, Kate Platte Walker; and
	Whereas the long and intimate relation we have
held with her as a member of the Relief Society
has endeared her to us and we deeply feel our loss,
therefore be it
	RESOLVED, That her example as a wife, mother
and member of this society be held in grateful re-
membrance; and
	RESOLVED, That the sudden removal by death of
such a universal favorite is deeply felt, and the
vacancy caused by her death cannot be filled, and
with deep sympathy for the relatives we pray our
Heavenly Father to bless and comfort them.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed upon our minutes and recorded in our
records. 
	(Written by Mary M. Lyman at the request of
Caroline E. Lyman, president of the seciety.)


[Column 1]
