New Ways With Vegetables Evelyn Hansen Home Service Director, Utah Power and Light Company yews intentions may be good. You may buy the vitamins at the store in lovely fresh produce, but do those nutrients ever reach your family? It might be no more than twelve feet from the dining room table (maybe less, if your sink and range are less distance than that from the table) that a lot of the nutritive value is lost. For, in the cooking process, the minerals and vitamins are either retained in the vegetables or lost in the water and steam of the cooking process. But, can we keep these precious food values in the vegetables, and get them into our bodies where they will build good muscles, bones, and nerves, and make healthy, happy families? First, select fresh firm vegetables; wilted ones have already lost some of their value, and freshening in cold water does not bring it back. Next, store vegetables, according to the kind, in a cool, moist place for greens, or a cool, dry place for root vegetables such as potatoes. When preparing vegetables for cooking, scrub with a stiff brush, instead of peeling, if possible. This is especially good for potatoes and carrots. Use a peeling tool to remove the skin when vegetables must be peeled, and take away as little of the vegetable as possible; peel just before cooking. Avoid letting peeled vegetables stand in quantities of cold water before cooking. Now for the actual cooking—here are the four important "Do's." 1. Use a small amount of water, for the average family one-half cup of water is sufficient to cook a pan of vegetables. 2. Use a utensil with a well-fitting lid that will hold the steam in. Do not raise the lid or stir the vegetables while cooking. 3. Use high heat until vegetables are steaming, then reduce to low and keep them just steaming—not boiling rapidly. 4. Cook as short a time as possible until just done. Serve immediately. Frozen vegetables need not be thawed before cooking. If vegetables are frozen in a solid block, raise the lid once when steaming has begun, and break up the block so that cooking will be uniform. Leftover cooked vegetables, as well as raw ones, can be used in salads. The natural flavor and the most food value of vegetables are best retained when they are cooked for the shortest time possible, in the least amount of water, and served immediately. Use from one-fourth cup to one-half cup of water to one and one-half pounds of edible vegetables. Cover. Bring to a quick boil, and reduce heat to "low." It is advisable to have the water boiling before the vegetables are added. Page 460 NEW WAYS WITH VEGETABLES 461 Recipes Hasu-STuFFED SQUASH 2 acorn squash ~~ 1 can corned beef hash 1 onion salt " tsp. Dry mustard Start your oven at 375° F., or moderate. Cut squash in half, lengthwise, take out seeds and stringy pulp, and place cut side down in a shallow pan. Add 1 cup boiling water and steam in oven for 10 minutes. While squash is cooking, chop up the onion fine and mix, along with mustard, into the hash. After 10 minutes, take squash from oven, sprinkle lightly with salt (hash is quite salty, so go easy) and fill each center with the hash mixture. Put back in the oven without water and continue baking another 20 minutes, or until you can pierce the squash with a fork. YALE BEETS 6 to 8 medium-sized beets "2 tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Flour "2 ¢C. Orange juice "2 c. Sugar 2 tbsp. Butter Wash, pare, and dice uncooked beets. Place in a baking dish. Mix dry ingredients together and add orange juice. Pour over beets; dot with butter. Cover and place in oven for 1 hour at 350°. Brownep Potato LOAF 3 tbsp. Butter or margarine 4 to 5 c. Cooked potatoes, diced 3 tbsp. Flour 1 tbsp. Minced parsley 1 c. Milk cheese Make a thick white sauce of butter, flour, and milk. Add potatoes, seasoned with salt and pepper and parsley, and cook for 5 minutes. Press into a loaf pan which has been lined with waxed paper. Let stand in refrigerator overnight. Unmold. Turn onto oven-proof platter. Place in oven for 50 minutes at 350°. Lima BEANS AND ALMOND UNIQUE 3 tbsp. Butter dash cayenne 3 tbsp. Flour % c. Grated sharp American cheese 1 No. 2 can lima beans potato chips milk /, ¢. Toasted almonds "2 tsp. Salt Combine butter with flour in a double boiler. Drain liquid from the lima beans and add enough milk to make two cups liquid. Add to flour mixture and cook until thickened, stirring constantly. Add seasonings, cheese, and lima beans. Heat thoroughly. Place a mound of potato chips on each plate; serve the lima beans over them and sprinkle with four or five almonds. Serve at once. Six servings. Carrots A' LA KING 1. Prepare 1 tbsp. Minced parsley 2 c. Medium white sauce 3. Pour over c. Diced, cooked carrots. 2. Add 3 1 tbsp. Minced pimiento 4. Serve on hot toast, or over 1 tsp. Grated onion individual meat cakes 1 tbsp. Diced celery