The Fluorescence of the Lamanites Elder Spencer W. Kimball Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 1, 1952] of Israel, and thank the Lord for you, and for the glorious work that you are doing in Zion. I come to realize more and more, as my experience broadens, the vast influence and power that a small minority may wield in this world, in politics, in religion, in social activities," everywhere you go. A small group, united in purpose, with definite goals, may greatly influence the great majorities. Sister Spafford mentioned that the subject of my talk would be the Indian Relations work. I should like: to broaden that slightly, and discuss with you the minority program. Last year the brethren saw fit to reorganize the proselyting program within the stakes of Zion. The First Presidency and the Council of the - Twelve were brought into the program with the First Council of the Seventy, and some additional prestige has come to this great program. The 35,000-odd conversions in the past fifteen years under the First Council of the Seventy have proved the power of this work. I feel that we have hardly scratched the surface in the proselyting endeavor in the stakes of Zion. Now that stakes are scattered from ocean to ocean, from the north to the south, and we have strong leadership and many people, there is no reason now why we canPage 76 i pay tribute to you, the mothers not reach out and bring into our numbers the millions of good, honorable people of the world, who are searching for the truth. The stake missionary program, as now re-orgenized, is under the direction of President Stephen L Richards of the First Presidency. President Joseph Fielding Smith is the chairman of all of the missionary endeavor. 'There is a sub-committee on the stake missionary work, and included in the stake missionary work is the proselyting of the minority groups. This is not limited to the Indians, though in many of the stakes, perhaps half of the stakes of Zion, the Indian program looms the largest of all the minority groups. However, we have far more Lamanite people speaking the Spanish language in the stakes of Zion, and there are areas where the Japanese are predominant, and there are other minority groups—the Greeks, the Italians, and others. It is the purpose of the stake missionary work to reach out and proselyte, and bring into the Church these many wonderful people. It is far easier for us to teach the gospel to the Japanese, the Chinese, the Italians, the Greeks, and the Spanish, here, rather than to go to their homeland where laws and competition and persecution as well as the language barrier, control and limit our efforts. THE FLUORESCENCE OF THE LAMANITES In the stake missionary work now is the work for the minorities, and the work for the minorities includes all of these various groups. I should like to read at this juncture the instructions of the First Presidency of the Church as sent to the presidencies of stakes in May of this year. ' In or near many stakes of the Church are found groups of Indians, Spanishspeaking people, Japanese, Chinese, Greeks, Armenians, Italians, and others. Where such minority groups are found, it may be desirable to have district presidents supervise the work among them. Missionaries who have returned from foreign missions, especially those who speak the language of the minority groups, should be called to labor in this field, and, wherever possible, converts from among the groups' themselves should be used as missionaries among their own people. In many stakes are groups of Indians who. Are somewhat permanently located. In others, Indians come from the reservations for seasonal employment. Careful planning should be made to prepare for these people. Too frequently the Indians are about ready to leave the area before the missionaries are alerted to the need. Sometimes missionaries and stake officers feel that since the transients are going to be there for only a short time no good will come of working with them. But many converts have been made in a period of a few days in the fields, on the railroad track, in the mines, or on the ditchbank. Many of the Indians returning to their reservations after the seasonal work take with them fond memories of kindnesses and of testimonies, and frequently complete their conversion at home. The stake and ward auxiliaries, with their enlistment committees and other facilities, should lend the fullest possible assistance and cooperation in aiding the stake missionary program. They should gather information on investigators and others who might be interested, and cause 77 such information to be transmitted to the mission presidency. 'They should, whereever possible, adapt classes to meet the needs of investigators and new converts. Stake presidencies will arrange for a proper correlation of the auxiliary organization with the stake mission. We no longer call it the Indian Relations Committee. We no longer call it the Correlation Committee. However, the functions have not changed, as you note in the last two lines: "Stake presidencies: will arrange for a proper correlation of the auxiliary organizations with the stake mission." HIS means, sisters, no diminution, no relaxing, in the. Program of carrying the work to the minority groups. It is merely new emphasis. It is the old program, but we are using the organization which we have: the stake presidency, the stake mission presidency, the high councilors, the auxiliary leaders in the stakes, and then the stake missionaries, of course, under the stake mission presidency, all working co-operatively together to take the gospel to those who are in need in the various stakes. Now the work in all of the stakes is so varied, it is a difficult thing to work out a program which will fit all conditions found. In the regular work in the stakes the sisters may study literature and