A Party Thats Different Yvonne Child Hiss NOTHING makes a child feel more like the belle of the ball than to have her friends exclaim after attending her birthday party, "That was the best party I ever went to!" To be outstanding, a party should be different, and it can be, with a little planning. The first and greatest requirement is a "theme," and all plans should be carried out under the one idea. I'm going to give you a list of themes and ideas to carry them out. These may inspire any number of original ideas of your own, once you see the ease of this method. First, for the under-five age, try a circus theme. Have pictures of animals mounted around the walls. You may use these for a game, giving a prize to the one who can name the most animals correctly. "Pin-the-tail-on-the-donkey" is a favorite game, and is nearly always included at every party, but it does get tiresome seeing the same old donkey. Why not try "Pin-the-earon-the-elephant," or "Pin-the-ballon-the clown's-hat"? Any hostess or obliging neighbor could draw a clown's head or an elephant, just as well as a donkey. Try buying gummed stars and sticker pictures and letting the children stick them on their own clown party hats. It takes up time for one game, makes each hat individual, and children love to paste. The tiniest tots never seem to win any of the games, so why not give them a chance, by giving a Page 100 prize for the shortest, or youngest, or the one who weighs the least. It's fun to line up for measuring or climb on scales for weighing. My favorite party trick, and one that is always a hit, is to bake a surprise right into each child's cupcake. I like to use cupcakes, as they are cuter to decorate and easier to serve. (You may bake a layer cake for the candle-blowing cere: mony, then not cut it until evening when the grandparents and relatives come for their celebration.) I bake a charm in each cake, or a well-scrubbed penny. For a nearChristmas party, I bought some small silver jinglebells, tied a string on each one for a bracelet (do this — with charms also), and baked it in the cupcake. The children were delighted and curious, when they shook the cake and could hear it rattle. It was the more exciting because all the strings were blue except one. It was red, and the one who got the red string on his bell won a prize. I promise you, they lost no time in eating their cupcakes! One word of caution is needed for this trick though, use only metal charms, as plastic charms will melt in the baking. Also, wrap charms, bells, or pennies in waxed paper, then pour the batter around them and bake. The waxed paper keeps the dough off the prizes and they look clean and attractive when un- 'wrapped. For a circus cupcake, decorate with a peppermint stick candy pole, stand an animal cracker, A PARTY THAT'S DIFFERENT dipped in chocolate, at the base of the pole, and put a paper canopy on top. You can make a canopy yourself out of typing paper, or get paper-cone drinking cups, cut them off to the desired length, and decorate with stripes. For a Thanksgiving theme, decorate cupcakes like a turkey, with fan-tail and turkey head. Give Pilgrim hats or an Indian headband with a feather, instead of party hats. Play "Pin-the-feather-on-the-Indianbonnet," or "Pin-the-trigger-on-themusket"! OR a spring party, decorate cupcakes like flowers, with chocolate wafer centers and frosting or gumdrop petals. Or, decorate them as a butterfly, with big paper wings, a gumdrop stick or orange stick body, and curled pipecleaner feelers. For hats, make May baskets out of old cottage-cheese cartons covered with crepe paper. Give them a paper handle, some imitation grass, and a daisy sprouting out. They look pretty silly perched on a head, but that's the whole idea for party hats, and they are cute for older children. For a February party, fold soldier hats out of newspaper (or crepe paper, if you prefer) and give each child a flag. Decorate cakes with cherries, hatchets, or flags. You might want a Valentine theme. Make hats out of two 101 large red hearts glued together around the outside edge and worn upside down, with the point of the heart up. Pierce each hat with a white paper arrow. This is an easy theme to carry out, with so many favors available in the stores, and many attractive ones that you can make. For a snow theme, make a marshmallow snowman on_ the cupcake, give him a licorice stovepipe hat, and paint a face with cake coloring. For the children, make stovepipe hats, or snowball hats, covered with cotton, or blue hats with a white paper snowflake on them. There are hundreds of possible themes and many variations on old games to fit in with your theme. Swimming in emingeet— a erie gum diving board. Fourth-ofJuly—Peppermint stick firecracker. Autumn leaves—A gumdrop and pipecleaner elf, with an autumn-leaf tunic. March wind—Paper pinwheels and kites. Now, one last rule to remember. Give everybody a prize to take home. It's not a party unless each one has a present. Give whistles, horns, balloons, bubble pipes, pinwheels, flags—and, if you can't think of anything else, have a fish pond and give everybody something different. Your child deserves a party that's different! Oe