[Vol55 | May 1968 | Page 340 | General Feature | Cleone Eccles Resigns From Relief Society | General Board]
—Bse General Board members and sisters throughout the Church regret the resignation of Cleone Rich Eccles from the General Board, as - of February 21, 1968. She has served on the General Board since January 15, 1964. During this time she rendered outstanding service to Relief Society. She has ably served on the Music Committee, where her own musical talents and her liberal educational background rendered her contribution of great worth. She was chairman of the Special Programs Committee at the time of her resignation. In addition, she has fulfilled many speaking engagements and served at conferences both at home and abroad where her sweet, refined presence and wise counsel have been greatly appreciated. Sister Eccles came to the General Board after having served in many responsible stake and ward positions in Relief Society and other auxiliaries of the Church. She possesses a great capacity for sympathetic understanding, stemming partly from her experiences of rearing a family of six children. She herself was reared in a family where Relief Society was held in highest regard, as her mother served as president of Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society for twenty-three years. The united love of the board goes with Sister Eccles. Her service to Relief Society will stand as a memorial to her in the faithful service she has rendered. On behalf of all Relief Society sisters, love and appreciation are extended to Sister Eccles. May she find much happiness in her future endeavors, and may Relief Society continue to be a joy and a fulfillment to her. Plays Wanted WANTED! NEW MIA PLAYS! The MIA Drama Commitee is now reading short and long plays for inclusion in a new play book. Plays pertaining to all women-and-girl casts are especially invited. They should be written for family audiences and adhere to LDS standards. Publication and royalty rights will be purchased for all plays accepted by the committee. Plays, in their proper form, are to be submitted to MIA Drama Committee, 79 S