[Vol55 | May 1968 | Page 324 | Special Feature | Down Memory Lane Mary | R. Young]
With a song in her heart, and with this gift of singing, it naturally brought joy and happiness not only into her life, but Down Memory Lane also into her home, and was an influence for good in the lives of her children. Mother was a very spiritual woman. Her values were lasting ones, eternal values. She taught us to put first things first. Her motto was, "... Seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you." (Matthew 6:33.) She would get her five little ones around her and we would pray together as a family. We attended Sunday School and sacrament meeting together as a family. Well do I remember one Sunday evening we could not find my brother George, so we went to church without him, and when we returned found out he had been playing baseball with the boys, and his ball had crashed through the large living-room window of our neighbor's house. Mother made the most of that teaching moment and explained fully the real meaning of keeping the Sabbath Day holy, and I am quite sure my brother never stayed away from church to play ball again. "Cleanliness is next to Godliness." This was another of mother's favorite expressions. She was extremely orderly and an immaculate housekeeper. She was always neat and clean in her appearance. Her hair was lovely, and she took a great deal of pride in dressing and _ looking nice. She held her head high with the majesty of a queen, receiving respect and love from all who knew her. She was proud of her heritage, proud of her membership in the Church, and grateful that she was able to render ser- 

325 May 1968

 vice. She was active in the various organizations of the Church from early childhood. I am grateful that we were taught economy in our home. This proved to be valuable training for me when I was first married and lived in the East while my husband attended law school. Mother had a very meager income after my father died, but she had a deep conviction that if she paid her tithing, was thrifty and frugal, she could manage, and it was more important for her to stay at home with her children than to get a job and supplement her income. She taught each child to share and accept responsibility. She was truly a wonderful manager, and we were taught that happiness does not depend upon how much money one has to spend, but how wisely it is used. She would never think of beginning a winter without a year's supply of coal and wood on hand. I recall seeing many fiftypound sacks of flour stacked high on shelves made for that purpose. The vegetable cellar was usually bulging with potatoes, onions, and apples. This was the way many people lived at that time. It was a safe, secure way of life; an example of living we well might emulate and follow today, as suggested by the Authorities of the Church in our Welfare Plan. Times, situations, and problems are different now than they were then, but certain basic principles and truths remain the same, such as taking care of what we have and living within one's income. In mother's early life she learned that in work there is 326 dignity and satisfaction, stressing the necessity of effort along with work, that anything worth doing is worth doing well. She believed in the statement found in the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 42:42: Thou shalt not be idle; for he that is idle shall not eat the bread nor wear the garments of the laborer. Working long hours was necessary for her to accomplish her many household duties. The smell of freshly baked bread and hot biscuits, baked regularly three times each week, still lingers in my memory, also the tantalizing aroma of chili sauce cooking on the stove in the fall of the year, as we were starting back to school. The spicy smell of delicious pickled peaches, ready to be put in a large earthen crock, and then, of course, her famous mustard pickles had to be made each year, so she could share them with her neighbors. Mother seemed to find joy and satisfaction in working, in keeping busy. Her life was not all sunshine and song, however, as she often remarked, her life was one of tears and smiles. She not only lost her husband, but also two teenage daughters died within the short space of eighteen months. Some years later, one son died as a result of an automobile accident very similar to his father's. These trials seemed to draw her closer to her Heavenly Father and made her stronger. There was never any complaining or wavering in her faith. A poet once wrote: "Sweet are the uses of adversity." These words applied to my mother, be- cause she rose above her tragedies and, through great faith, was able to build something beautiful, strong, and raidant out of adversity. Continuing down memory lane, includes fond memories of my Grandmother Romney. My mother's parents were Vilate Ellen Douglas and George Romney, both sturdy, courageous pioneers. Grandfather bore a fervent, powerful testimony till the time of his death, that he knew beyond a shadow of a doubt that Joseph Smith was a true prophet of God. He had known the Prophet Joseph and _ his brother Hyrum—had heard them speak, and was in attendance at the meeting in Nauvoo when the mantle of Joseph Smith fell on Brigham Young. Grandfather left Nauvoo and came West in 1850. Grandmother was just ten years of age at the time she came West with her family. Their fine traits of character were instilled into their children and mother was always grateful and thankful to her parents for the training and influence they had on her life. Grandmother Romney was the mother of twelve children, six boys and six girls. Grandfather was the bishop of the Twentieth Ward for twenty-four years, or more, and Grandmother was a real mother to the ward during that period, helping to care for the sick, the needy, and the widows. She was always on hand when a new baby arrived, ready and able to assist the mother and help with the other children. I always thought of Grandmother as a cultured, refined, kind, and gentle lady. She made a tremendous impression on me Down Memory Lane when I was a child and truly touched and influenced my life, for which I am indebted and will always be grateful. Grandmother and Grandfather were especially close to our family, because of mother being left a widow at such a young age, in fact, we were at their home a great deal. I remember' spending' every Christmas there, as long as they lived. What wonderful times and delicious dinners we did enjoy! One of my fondest memories is the time when I lived with my grandparents for a month when my own family were quarantined for scarlet fever. I had been stricken with the same disease a few years before this time, so was allowed to continue in school if I lived away from home. My grandparents showered me with love and kindness, spoiled me, I am sure, as grandparents do, and made me feel like a queen, not just for a day, but for the entire month. When I first arrived, grandmother had me sleep in bed with her, because she was concerned for fear I might be lonely or homesick. I remember so well trying to lie in bed just as still as I possibly could, not even turning over, for fear I would keep her awake. How I loved to listen to Grandmother tell me about the early days when Grandfather was sent on a mission to England, and to hear her chuckle as she recalled making so many pies, then selling them to support her children while he was away. Getting to know them so intimately was indeed a choice experience. Truly, I was blessed when I think of the influence my grand- 

327 May 1968

 mother had on my early life; also, when I realize the training my own mother gave me when I was young, and the influence she had on my later life, I was thrice blessed. When we were rearing our family, mother visited us often, usually accompanied us on our family outings, had Sunday dinners with us, and always brightened our home with her vibrant personality and zest for living until she was over ninety years of age. Richard L. Evans appropriately expressed my sentiments when he said: Thank God for mothers, you who have them. And you who have not now, thank him for such a mother to remember. And you, the young mothers who have children yet around you, God grant that you may give them such love, such memories to remember. Mother passed away just two weeks before reaching her ninetythird birthday. She spent the last three years of her life living with us in our home. She had always been so independent, so used to doing for herself, it was very difficult for her to adjust to this new way of life. She hadn't been accustomed to being inactive. She didn't enjoy sitting around having someone wait on her. She did, however, enjoy very much having our nineteen grandchildren (her great-grandchildren) around, when they so often visited. She told them many wonderful stories of her early life, and they loved to hear them. The lives of these greatgrandchildren have been touched and influenced by her fine traits of character, her words of wisdom, her sound judgment, and years of experience. Now, as a family, we all have these precious memories and deeply cherish them. May each one of us live our lives so that our children and grandchildren will carry with them precious and _ cherished memories, as they walk down memory lane. A TO A WHITE PEONY Was it yesterday this pierced The tomb of earth, snow-cooled and dark, And thrust a sharp, blood-red dart Past stones and stubble to the light? Today, I hold the fresh-blown, fringed Peony in my hand, and mark Streaks of crimson at its heart, Deep against the full-flowered white, And marvel at the miracle: A dry brown bulb, grown beautiful.