[Vol20 | July 1933 | Sequence: 10 | Category: Article | Title: A Pioneer Trousseau Elizabeth Cannon Porter]
Spinning Wheel and Cradle from the Log Cabin Monument of Pleasant Grove A Pioneer Trousseau By Elizabeth Cannon Porter his home,—a log house plastered with mud,—with a flourish.

"Gwen!" he called excitedly.

His daughter, a slim, vivacious girl came to the door.

"See what I've got for you.

Hastily alighting he pulled out a bolt of white sheeting from his wagon, followed by one of unbleached muslin, another of turkey red, a parcel of gray linsy-woolsy, some flannel and a roll of gay-colored calico.

His wife, who had now come out, exclaimed in wonder.

R OGER HUGHES drove up to "Gee, Daddy, where did you get them?" queried his small son Harty.

"Traded the span of mules for them.

That Jack and Jill were getting so ornery that I was afraid of them.

Was glad to get rid of the critters.

The goods is mostly for Gwen for that trousseau that she gave away on the plains.

Remember I told her that the Lord would make it up to her?" "Oh, Dad, what will I do with a trousseau when I haven't even a lover?

Nevertheless she was touched and tears welled in her eyes.

"How about Charles Johnson?

He seems to be hanging around here 416 a good deal." He spoke of a young Scandinavian who had helped them on the trip across the continent and who had still worked for them after their arrival in the Salt Lake Valley.

"Charles is a fine fellow.

I like him but I don't love him," said Gwen slowly.

Though no one mentioned him they all knew that she was thinking of Jim Murphy, the man who had gone away.

"Flow on earth did you come to get so much cloth?" asked Mrs. Hughes practically.

While the father ate his meager supper, for the people were on rations in the bleak year of 1849, he told dramatically the story.

Freighters from the East, enroute to California, had heard of the discovery of gold on the coast, and anxious to be the first to arrive and reap the rich harvest, had unloaded their heavy vehicles, traded them for lighter and swifter equipages, and started on the mad rush westward.

After the man had finished his meal his daughter went back of his chair and put her soft arms around his neck.

"Thanks, father.

The cloth is lovely.

We'll make good use of it, won't we, mother?

Whether I find a husband or not," she added mischievously.

WHEN the Hughes family, not long over from Wales, had left Missouri for Utah in the second year of the westward migration, they had brought with them two wagons and several yoke of oxen.

The first wagon was literally a house on wheels (for this old country family was well fixed.) A wide projection supported its canvas cover.

A frame was laid across the back part of the vehicle.

This was corded as a bedstead and made sleep comfortable.

Under the bed was the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE iron trunk with Gwen's linen to be used when she was a bride.

There was a door on one side of the wagon cover and on the opposite side a window.

The door which was between the wheels was reached by a step-ladder.

The floor of this traveling house was carpeted.

The furniture consisted of four chairs and a dresser adorned with looking-glass, candlestick and pin cushion.

The second wagon was heavily laden with carpenter tools (Roger had been a cabinet maker in his native Wales), a plow, musket, tub, bucket and culinary utensils.

Some of the latter Mrs. Hughes thriftily traded off to the Indians for buffalo robes.

Besides these there were the needful supplies,—seeds, flour, bacon.

Drippings from the latter had been diverted to grease the axles.

Father Hughes drove one wagon, Jim Murphy, a young Irishman, the other, with his saddle horse bringing up the rear.

Although not a Latter-day Saint he had joined the refugees in their trek westward.

Gwen wondered whether he had joined the cavalcade on account of her or for the spirit of adventure.

She suspected that it was both.

A strong attachment had sprung up between them, but when she urged him to join the church he said, "'Not till I learn more about it, colleen." "A poor 'Mormon' I'd be." Nevertheless he lent his deep rich voice to the singing of hymns around the campfire at night when they were safe within the circle of the wagons.

He helped manfully in ferrying the wagons over flooded streams, shot buffalo for meat and helped fight the flames when the Indians set fire to the prairie.

He also kept watch at night when squaws pilfered stew kettles from the pioneer stores.
