[Vol29 | April 1942 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Relief Society Celebrates its Centennial Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer]

Relief Society Celebrates Its Centennial Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer HE great day March 17, 1942  toward which thousands of Relief Society women looked forward for months and years has come and gone, marking the end of one century of organized service by the women of  
With the sanction of the Presiding Bishopric, this project was recommended to all Relief Societies in an official bulletin on centennial plans issued August 20, 1941, and was repeated in the Page 225 226 QELIEK SOCIETY CENTENNIA SRS RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE APRIL, 1942 GENERAL BOARD'S TREE-PLANTING SERVICE Temple Square, March, 17, 1942.
General conference of Relief Society October 2, 1941.' Quoted from the bulletin is the following statement of the purpose of planting centennial trees: "Not only will these trees add to the beauty of Church grounds, wherever planted, but they will be a living monument to Relief Society throughout the years. A majestic tree slowly but surely growing with its roots firmly planted in the earth and its branches ever reaching heavenward is typical of our great organization and its century of service." The Church Beautification Department of the Presiding Bishop's Office cooperated wholeheartedly with the Relief Society in this undertaking, guiding local Societies in the selection, purchasing, and proper Inset Bronze Tree Marker planting of trees of beauty and long life which would appropriately represent Relief Society. This Department also assisted many wards in designating a desirable location for the planting of these centennial trees in relation to the landscape plans of the Church properties concerned.
Special centennial tree markers were made available by the General Board for purchase by those Relief Societies desiring them. The accompanying picture shows the marker a_ circular disc of cast bronze, 31% inches in diameter, with the inscription "Relief Society Centennial Tree lg942" in raised letters.
Each marker is attached to a 14-inch pipe, which when properly set, is imbedded in concrete so that the RELIEF SOCIETY CELEBRATES CENTENNIAL marker is level with the ground and cannot be pried loose.
Hundreds of markers were set at the time of planting and many others will be placed later. | Indications are that the planting of centennial trees was a feature of the observances on March 17 wherever Church property was owned and wherever weather conditions permitted, and that centennial trees will be planted later during the year in those communities where they could not be set on the actual anniversary date.
Orders handled through the Presiding Bishop's Office and letters from faraway stakes and missions indicate that choice trees of many varieties were planted, including the blue spruce extensively planted in Utah where it is the State tree, ash, maple, white cutleaf weeping birch, linden, locust, Japanese flowering cherry, dogwood, flowering hawthorne, and both the whiteflowering and red-flowering horse chestnut. The beautiful magnolia tree was selected by most of the branches in the Southern States Mission; the British Mission reported plans to plant the English oak; the Bureau of Information at Palmyra, New York, planted the native maple at Hill Cumorah, historic Church _ shrine; wards in the Oahu Stake in Hawaii chose the breadfruit tree; some California wards, the flowering eucalyptus; and it is reported that the ginkgo tree may be planted on the grounds of the recently acquired stately New England Mission home in Longfellow Park, Boston, Massachusetts. The  ; in the ter- 227 race to the west of the 'I'emple, near stately towering trees of the same variety, and near the site on which the Relief Society centennial memorial campanile is to be erected during the summer of 1942. 'The heavy new snow of the day before was scraped away, and the fine large young elm, selected with special care by the Church Beautification Department, was planted in the hole carefully prepared in advance. 'The marker had also been set previously, level with the sidewalk at the base of the terrace.
This tree-planting was attended by a small group, composed principally of present and former members of the General Board, representatives of other Church auxiliaries, and of the Church Beautification Department. The time had not been publicly announced because of Church limitation of crowds in This Centennial Birthday Cake of the North Hollywood Ward, San Fernando Stake, is Typical of Cakes at Hundreds of Local Centennial Celebrations. we A sat Refit Socisty Meeting 18 ' Revter Society - oes CENTENNIAL -. Souvenir BooktetT Cpa PROVO FOURTH.2~ RELIEF SOCIETY 1. CENTENNIAL pROGRA WHITTIER WARD A 1842 MARCH yy 1942 a FAMLETE | J es Relic} Soci; A the Coil RS feesssnrs avieig E: aa a - ' 5
Mationant Womasa Rada 33K e A 3 re Ye ype  ; ae hereh of Sossss. J R  } gO; i:: of Lotter Poy 3.. == |: } 2 4
Fridag, OM rol 3 i et reghit Mab 5 i BS, y. Wei "i Winsker Bast ay { 3 6, 5 ts i j TBmsr pUTeIwe i, doy Representative Centennial Programs and Favors j Ciurch of Jaous Chait ~~ RELIEF SOCIETY CELEBRATES CENTENNIAL the Square since the onset of the war. In opening the service, President Amy Brown Lyman said, "What we do today will be remembered long and noted down in history. We are conscious that, we are standing on soil made sacred by those whose feet have trodden here and in these historic buildings dedicated for sacred purposes." Luella N. Adams, member of the General Board, conducted the singing by the group of "We Thank Thee, O God, for a Prophet." Marcia K. Howells, first counselor to President Lyman, spoke on the purpose and significance of the planting of trees in observance of the Relief Society centennial, and on the qualities and grandeur of the English elm about to be planted. Donna D. Sorensen, second counselor, then offered an appropriate and impressive dedicatory prayer. 'The first shovelful of soil was thrown on the roots by Vera W. Pohlman, general secretarytreasurer, who was followed by Belle S. Spafford, editor of the Magazine, and by each of the Board members present. A gilded shovel, very kindly proffered by Elder W. Lester Glade, was used for this purpose. Centennial Phonograph Records Desiring to greet all members of the Society on the one hundreth anniversary, and to present a centennial gift to each local Relief Society in recognition of this auspicious occasion and of the membership growth during the four-year campaign preceding the centennial, the General Board sent to all local English-speaking Relief Societies in continental United States, Canada, and Mexico, a 12-inch double-faced phonograph record containing a greeting from President Amy Brown Lyman and = a blessing and benediction by President Heber J. Grant, with preliminary announcements by Elder Richard L.
Evans of the First Council of the Seventy, and music from the Salt Lake Tabernacle organ by Alexander Schreiner, tabernacle organist.
Records were reserved for the Relief Societies in other lands and for those speaking other languages, but were not sent because time did not allow for their delivery by March 17, and because of uncertainties of shipping during the present war. The master transcription of President Lyman's message was made in the Salt Lake Tabernacle on Saturday, February 28, to which the previously recorded blessing by President Grant was added. A total of 1,800 records was processed from the master transcription and mailed to reach the local Societies in time for their use at jocal anniversary programs on Tuesday, March 17.
Never before has the Relief Society or any auxiliary of the Church used this means of greeting its members, a means typical of the present era and representative of the marvelous mechanical developments which have paralleled Relief Society's century of existence.
Never before has the voice of a President of the Church been preserved and carried by this means into the gatherings of the Saints.
Messages of appreciation immediately began pouring into the offices of the General Board from all sections of North America, from which the following representative excerpts are quoted: From Battie Creek Brancu, MIcuican "The messages conveyed in this manner will be of great inspiration to us 230
Centennial Message of President Heber J. Grant and President Amy Brown Lyman To the Members of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints March 17, 1942 LDS-2
Label on Relief Society Centennial Phonograph Record on many occasions. We considered it a very real privilege to receive this recognition from our leaders. 'These messages give us greater appreciation of the work, and make us more proud and happy to be members of so great and wonderful an organization, one that has endured through the years and accomplished so very much to better humanity and improve conditions. We trust that even our little organization will rise to meet every requirement and be a creditable part of one grand whole." From STERLING, IpaAnHo "What a privilege it is to have such a wonderful gift! Our president is very ill; my son was taken prisoner on Wake Island, and it has been hard for me to be a cheerful leader. We had our centennial program planned, but we have had so many obstacles to work against that it has been hard to be very  enthusiastic about celebrating; with weather and roads so awful it has been next to impossible to get out to meetings. I have played the record a number of times already on my old Victrola, and each time I hear it, it gives me added encouragement. These are sfich trying days; we need all the inspiration and encouragement we can get. I am only one of the 115,000 members of our great Relief Society, but I am thankful that I am that one." From INDEPENDENCE, Missourt ''Not only the Relief Society members, but the entire branch is delighted with the recorded message from President Grant and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE APRIL, 1942
President Lyman. The Relief Society celebration was held jointly with branch reunion, and some 140 persons were seated around the dinner tables when the message was presented as a surprise. A hush fell over the group as the inspiration and thmll of hearing those voices was experienced. In our celebration it added greatly to the success of the occasion, and we want to tell you how sincerely we appreciate your thoughtfulness." From SovutH CotTTtonwoop Warp, Murray, Uran "The wonderful _ recorded message added something to our centennial program that nothing else could have achieved. Every member of our organization felt the spirit of the day more deeply because of it." From GAINESVILLE, FLor1ipa '"'On the night of March 17 we held a social at the home of one of the members. I carried a radio phonograph and the record, and I can't express in-words the joy it was to us just to sit and listen to Sister Lyman and - the voice of a Prophet of God. It was something we had never dreamed of. We only have six members in our Relief Society. We are very weak, as none of us had even attended a Relief Society meeting before, but we are trusting that we will grow stronger." From Mipway, Utan "As a very fitting climax to our anniversary program we played the record you sent us. Our hearts beat with mingled emotions, and _ tears came to many eyes as we heard the voices of. Our beloved president, Amy Brown Lyman, and our prophet, Heber J. Grant. It was an inspiring occasion and we feel to rededicate ourselves to the service of this great work of Relief Society."
FROM THE SOUTHERN STATES
Mission  'There are not words to express appreciation for the records that were sent into this mission. To hear the voice of our beloved President Grant and the voice of our dear Relief Society President was indeed a gift that cannot be expressed. Many of these people had never expected to hear the tone of their voices. It filled our hearts with thanksgiving that caused tears of joy to flow." Great Central Celebration Postponed With the appointment, early in
RELIEF SOCIETY CELEBRATES CENTENNIAL 1940, of a general centennial committee, composed of Mary Grant Judd, chairman; Edith S. Elliott, Rae B. Barker, Anna B. Hart, and Nellie O. Parker, assisted by all other members of the Board serving on subcommittees, and by several professional and technical advisors, specific plans were begun for a_ general Church-wide celebration of the centennial in Salt Lake City in connection with the semi-annual general conference of the Church in April, 1942. By the middle of January, 1942, plans and preparations for this historic event had proceeded to the point where announcement of specific dates and times for the various features of this celebration were written and ready for release. Then, on January 17, 1942, as the result of engagement of the United States in war on December 7, 1941, the First Presidency published a request for Church-wide curtailment of auxiliary activities entailing travel in order to reduce to the lowest feasible limit expenditures. Incident to Church activities. This action was taken in recognition of the heavy tax burdens to be imposed and the limitations upon automotive travel because of nation-wide restrictions on rubber tires. The General Board of Relief Society immediately and heartily endorsed this wise and timely policy announced by the First Presidency in the interest of the members of the Church. Upon the recommendation of President Amy Brown Lyman, made in recognition and acceptance of the wisdom of this action, the Board voted on January 28, 1942, to postpone the general centennial celebration and to issue no call for the customary semi-annual general conference of Relief Society 231 in April. The only recorded previous interruption of the April and October semi-annual general conferences of Relief Society since their beginning in April, 1889, occurred in 1919, when the conference was postponed from April until June because of the nation-wide influenza epidemic. The postponed general centennial plans consisted of a great historic and symbolic pageant, "Woman's Century of Light,' which was to have been presented in the Salt Lake Tabernacle on nine evenings March 23 through April 2 ( except the evenings of March 26 and 29); a centennial concert on the evening of April 3 by a chorus of 1,500
Relief Society Singing Mothers composed of delegations of nine or fewer singers from the various stakes and missions of the Church; an exhibit of Relief Society handcraft drawn from all stakes and missions, and of other activities, to have been held in the Lion House during the week March 30 through April 4; and a three-day (rather than the usual two-day) general conference of Relief Society, April 1, 2, and 3, with _ departments on educational work and administrative problems during the first two days, and with two large ceremonial sessions for the general membership and public planned for Friday, April 3, in the Salt Lake Tabernacle. In harmony with the statement by the First Presidency and the decision of the General Board of Relief Society, many stakes which had planned for stake-wide centennial celebrations either in addition to or in lieu of ward observances immediately cancelled their plans. This action caused great disappointment to the members of the DESERET. NEWS pe LOGAN HERALD-IOURNAL - ae 'WASHINGTON COUNTY NEWS ve PAYSON CHRC Clippings Representative of Extensive Newspaper Publicity on or near March 17, 1942, Relating to Relief Society Centennial.
RELIEF SOCIETY CELEBRATES CENTENNIAL
Relief Society generally, and to the stake and general officers who had planned and worked for months in preparation for the scheduled commemorative events. Nevertheless, Relief Society women everywhere willingly and immediately accepted the advice of their leaders, thus giving evidence of their wholesome faith in those in authority over them, their intelligent recognition of the wisdom of the action, and their flexibility in gracefully relinquishing cherished plans and turning their energies in the interest of the local celebrations which now became of first importance. The general attitude of acceptance of the change is crystallized in the following excerpts typical of those in the many letters received by the General Board on this subject: From TayLor STAKE, IN ALBERTA, Canapa "We have cancelled our stake centennial celebration. It was a very hard thing to do after all our plans, but we want to conserve as much as possible. We are encouraging the wards to go on and have the very best observances they can under the existing circumstances. The wards, after all, will serve the greatest number of people." From PortTNEUF STAKE, IDAHO  "Naturally our sisters are disappointed, but we will urge the wards to prepare programs in the wards instead of holding a stake celebration. We can see the wisdom in changing plans, though it has taken a year and a half to make them." From A Macazin  REPRESENTATIVE IN Soutu Los ANGELES STAKE, CALIFORNIA  "We are sorry to read in the newspaper that the centennial program has been cancelled due to the war, but I feel we can celebrate in our hearts and give thanks to our Heavenly Father for this organization and for the noble women who have presided and inspired us, and who are pre- ' siding over us now. We are indeed most grateful for our membership and all the blessings we have gained." From Nortu SANPETE STAKE, UTAH (written immediately after the First Presi- 233 dency's announcement and before the General Board's postponement of the general celebration ) "Our sisters will have to make regular trips to some central ward at least once a week to hold stake rehearsals.
This will be done at expense. The attitude of our stake and ward executive groups rather tends to the discontinuance of these practices and toward the centering of all our efforts now on the ward celebrations planned for March 17. Yet we want to do what you desire of us, and regardless of sacrifices or expense we are ready to do as you advise. Our officers feel that when the Church Authorities see fit to call off union meetings, et cetera, that we should call off our stake party." Two Thousand Local Celebrations The change of plans with respect to general and stake celebrations centered greater interest in the observance of the centennial by the individual ward and branch Relief Societies. The General Board had previously recommended that the centennial be appropriately observed in local communities, either in a ward or stake capacity, on or near the actual anniversary date, March 17, which, on this hundredth birthday occurred on Tuesday, the regular Relief Society meeting day.
Many wards also commemorated the centennial by appropriate services in connection with the ward sacrament meeting on the Sunday preceding the anniversary.
With few exceptions, the local celebrations of the more than two thousand local Relief Socities in stakes and missions throughout the Church were held on Tuesday, March 17, and others were held as conveniently near this date as possible.
Greatly appreciated was the courtesy and cooperation of the Mutual Improvement Associations in relinquishing their regular meeting time, Tuesday evening, for eve- 234 ning centennial programs, wherever desired. To assist local Relief Societies with their programs, the General Board had earlier prepared and submitted to all stake and mission Relief Society presidents a comprehensive list of suggested biographical and _historical sketches, cantatas and other music, plays, pageants, and stories of pioneer Relief Society women. A few. Of these had been published in The Relief Society Magazine, to which references were given, but in the main these materials, compositions of Relief Society women who voluntarily submitted them for use wherever desired, were mimeographed and issued upon request of local Relief Societies.
Before issuance, these materials were carefully reviewed by a committee of the General Board, returned to their authors for any necessary revision in the interest of accuracy of historical detail and dramatic effectiveness, and then recommended and made available to the local Societies, where they were used extensively. Many Societies observed the day by dramatic presentations or other special features originated by creative and ingenious members of their own groups.
Some idea of the extensive observance of the centennial may be had when it is realized that on this one hundredth anniversary 115,000 women, composing more than two thousand separate congregations, were commemorating simultaneously, or nearly so, in various ways and in many lands and many languages the birth of their beloved organization.
These two thousand community gatherings not only traced the general history and development of the Society over one hundred years, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE APRIL, 1942 and paid tribute to its Prophetfounder, Joseph Smith, but many of them told in story and drama the history of their own local Relief Societies and honored their first and succeeding local officers. The approach of the centennial which naturally centered attention on Relief Society beginnings and subsequent history, renewed the interest of local Societies everywhere in their own beginnings, and stimulated historical research throughout the organization. The resulting findings have been preserved in narrative summaries, some of which are being published, and in both stake and ward scrapbooks containing pictures and histories of all past officers, records of accomplishment, biographies and faith-promoting stories of their pioneer members, newspaper and magazine clippings.
Much of this material was dramatized or otherwise reviewed at the centennial celebrations, and the attractive and valuable scrapbooks and related materials were exhibited at many of the day's festivals.
Interesting and well-prepared records of the centennial observance itself have already been completed in many wards and stakes, and others will be finished during the year while it is still possible to assemble complete and authentic information, copies of the programs, newspaper clippings, and pictures.
Accounts of the separate stake and ward centennial celebrations cannot be included in this article because of space limitations, but representative reports will be published later in the "Notes from the Field" Department of the Magazine. A general feature of a majority of the, local: programs was the recogni- Typical Centennial Messages Received by the General Board.
Tion of the members of the Society, with special tribute to the elderly women who had given long years of service in the organization, and rejoicing over the new members who had become affillated with the Society during the preceding four - year campaign for increased membership. In 1938, when the Society's membership numbered 75,000, the membership campaign was begun, its goal being an increase of 25,000, or a total of 100,000 members by 1942. By the end of 1941 the Society had not only reached but greatly exceeded its goal; 40,000 new members had been enlisted, bringing the membership during the centennial year to 115,000.
This phenomenal_ growth, shared by local Relief Societies throughout the Church, is stimulating, revitalizing, and _ Strengthening the organization, forging the wisdom and _ experience of the 75,000 members of many FR OGFIEQ premmsnere tH LA weEIOR - * S. WHLIAMS yy. 7 pA @ eg kak afigton aRcENtiya Of La ciciesia pe desucristg Ge Les Sant Ret ale cB 'The Relief Seciety  , Utah Dear Sleters: Yesterday 1 sent by Clinger express 4 little remembrange of the Centennial, It fs a gift shared by all of our Kelief Soctety sisters in the argentine Hiseion. It might be of interest to know that the work was done on a sewing machine by ane of our young members.
Having lived tn Buenos Aires' all of her life, sh  has never seen @ mountain, and it was neceasary for a missionary to show her just how to make it. It can ne washed and ftroned. We sre preparing for our celebration in April and are very - nopeful of a very Successfal performance. Gur individual pranches We sincerely pray for your well~heing and that you may ever be guided and inspired by our Father in Heaven in fulff ling the autties of your high calling.
Sincerely your sister, fo - gm ) Age 'ne ONES AAG Ge LS al Seo areetiat) ' a Corraine $, Willians, t: Relief Society Prasident, Argentine Misaton. President Amy Brown Lyman end Counselors aad the Relief Societies ali over the world Tear Polxss
PODAY IS A GREAT DAY 100,000 STRONG 100 YEARS OF SERVICE A million tongues teday call your mame Sleased.
Mare than s thougand bishops thank God for your crgunizeation, and prailes your nape. You sre angels of mercy ta more than that May we join the multitude thie day in congratulating you from the bottom of oyr hearts for what this bundred years has stood for: -- Kininess ta the needy, Florence Nightingales to the slick, the essence of culture and champions of refinement $n our Church. Gad bless you and all you stand for. * Please accept this birthday cake as a token of our love and appreciation. Ead ted bretiren, 3 Pf vw ue VENALD l. SRUWR REORETARIO OR tA mtgrone Y 38
Bighop's Bul iding will celebrate the date of March 17th. Many weris throughout the Church. A Lael '. 236 years' standing with the enthusiasm and abilities of the 40,000 new members, many of them -young women. Former General President Louise Y. Robison, under whose administration the membership campaign was started, wrote upon receipt of the telegram informing her of its successful conclusion: "I am thinking today what a great power for good one hundred fifteen thousand women would be in the Church if each member were valiant in upholding Church standards and in building Latter-day Saint homes. There is always a goal to work for." Thousands of Relief Society wo- _men participated in the observance of the centennial in their local units who could not have made the trip to Salt Lake to attend the great central celebration, among these many" who could not have traveled even the comparatively short distance to attend a stake celebration. An example of the appreciation of such ' members for opportunity to participate in a ward celebration was noted even in Salt Lake City where ward units are geographically compact, and where attendance at a stake or even the general observance would have entailed travel only within the city itself. This example, typical of hundreds of others throughout the Church, is provided by a member of the Society, 85 years old, so crippled from rheumatism that she must use crutches, who had prayed for months that she would be well enough to attend, and who was overjoyed at being able to participate in the day's activities in her own ward, realizing that her condition would have made her attendance at even a nearby stake celebration unlikely and an impossibility at a general celebration. Society RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE APRIL, 1942
Radio Broadcasts The Relief Society centennial was recognized in three radio programs of one-half hour each, originating in Salt Lake City, and broadcast from station KSL. Two of these broadcasts were sponsored by the General Board of Relief Society, and presented, respectively, on 'Tuesday morning, March 17, from 8:00 to 8:30, and Sunday evening March 22, from 9:15 to 9:45
Mountain War Time. These two programs 'were planned by the General Board's centennial sub-committee on radio, composed of Priscilla L. Evans, chairman; and Belle S. Spafford, Rae B. Barker, and Mary Grant Judd. This committee was assisted by Irma Felt Bitner, radio continuity writer. A  third broadcast was presented by KSL The Radio Service Corporation of Utah, Tuesday evening, March 17, 7:45 to 8:15, in tribute to the Relief Society. The Tuesday morning broadcast consisted of a salute to the Relief membership.