[Vol29 | April 1942 | Sequence: 00pb1 | Category: Article | Title: April Cott]
The  Old  Building 
Thoia  Lambert 
Editor's  note:  The  following  account  of  early-day  activities  of  the  Relief  Society 
women  of  Kamas  Ward,  South  Summit  Stake,  is  published  because  it  is  typical  of  the 
early-day  activities  of  Relief  Society  women  in  many  communities.  The  erection  of 
Relief  Society  halls  where  weekly  meetings  and  socials  might  be  held,  and  where  the 
women  might  gather  to  sew,  knit,  remodel  clothing,  prepare  burial  clothing,  make  quilts, 
carpets,  etc.,  was  necessary  in  early  days  when  meetinghouses  of  the  Church  were 
small,  consisting  in  most  cases  of  one  room.  The  women  were  active  in  raising  funds 
for  the  erection  of  these  buildings,  and  many  of  these  buildings  stand  today  as  monu- 
ments to  the  industry  and  enterprise  of  the  pioneer  Relief  Society  workers.  The  spirit 
and  energy  of  the  women  of  Kamas  Ward  as  revealed  in  this  article  are  characteristic 
of  the  spirit  and  energy  of  Relief  Society  women  everywhere.  Their  ability  to  adapt 
themselves  to  circumstances  and  to  accomplish  their  purposes  in  the  face  of  difficulties 
is  also  typical. 
AS  
I  first  remember  the  old  Re- 
lief Society  hall,  it  was  a  little 
log  building  with  chinking 
and  plaster  in  between  the  logs  on 
the  outside.  It  was  used  this  way 
for  some  time,  then  Brother  Willet 
S.  Harder  put  weatherboards  on. 
This  must  have  been  in  the  late  fall 
or  early  spring,  for  I  remember  him 
working  in  the  mud.  The  dimen- 
sions of  the  building  were  17  x  18 
feet,  and  it  had  an  8-foot  ceiling. 
In  the  center  of  the  front  and  facing 
east  was  a  four-paneled  door— the 
only  outside  door.  On  each  side 
of  the  door  and  on  either  end  of 
the  building  were  windows.  Green 
shutters  covered  these  windows  on 
the  outside.  At  first  the  inside  walls 
were  whitewashed,  then  later  they 
were  lined  with  1  x  8-inch  lumber, 
covered  with  cloth,  and  then  pa- 
pered. The  ceiling  and  floor  were 
of  tongue-and-grooved  lumber.  The 
chimney  was  in  the  west  end  of  the 
building,  where  stood  a  four-hole 
cookstove  with  little  round  lifters 
on  each  side  of  the  stovepipe  to 
regulate  the  temperature  of  the  oven. 
There  were  two  oven  doors,  one  on 
each  side  of  the  stove.  The  front  of 
Page  286 
the  stove  had  a  door  with  four  panels 
of  isinglass,  2^/2  x  3^^  inches  in  size, 
for  the  firelight  to  shine  through. 
The  door  opened  into  the  firebox 
which  had  an  ashpan  underneath 
it.  To  clean  out  the  soot  one  had 
to  remove  the  ashpan  and  open  a 
slide  at  the  back  of  the  pan,  di- 
rectly under  the  firebox.  This  four- 
legged  stove  stood  on  a  wooden 
stove-board  and  was  always  shining 
black. 
Among  other  furnishings  in  the 
room  where  a  large-size  table  with 
drop  leaves  on  either  side  and  a 
number  of  yellow  chairs  to  match, 
lace  curtains,  and  a  homemade  rag 
carpet  woven  with  single  warp  so  it 
would  last  longer.  (Single  warp 
throws  the  rags  up  for  wear,  while 
double  warp  throws  the  warp  up 
to  be  caught  by  tacks  in  shoes,  brok- 
en, and  thus  to  start  a  hole.)  This 
rag  carpet  was  woven  by  Louis 
Mitchell  on  a  hand  loom  in  yard- 
wide  lengths.  These  lengths  had 
been  bound  on  the  ends  with  blue 
denim  and  the  strips  sewed  to- 
gether by  hand  with  coarse,  cotton 
thread  and  an  overcasting  stitch.  A 
four-inch  layer  of  clean  straw  was

THE  OLD  BUILDING 
287