[Vol29 | April 1942 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Family McKay]

253
Family Prayer Ray R. McKay
TRUE prayer springs from the sincerity of the soul. To be successful in rearing a family to be true Latter-day Saints in every sense of the term, parents must be sincere. They must do as they pretend, perform what they promise, and really be what they appear to be. They profess to pay tithes; then the children should know that they pay an honest tithing. They are supposed to keep the Word of Wisdom; therefore, boys and girls should never see liquor, tea or coffee in the home. They are asked to have family prayers, and family prayers there should be at least once a day. Jesus taught his disciples the model prayer the Lord's Prayer. With this example before us there is no excuse for any parents who think they cannot form a prayer to say, "I don't know how to pray." "Never before," says Canon Farrar, "had all that was best and purest in a nation's prayers been thus collected into one noble and incomparable petition: In the mingled love and reverence with which it teaches us to approach our Father in Heaven in the spirituality with which it leads us to seek first the Kingdom of God and His righteousness in the spirit of universal charity and forgiveness which it inculcates, in the plural form throughout it, which is meant to show us that selfishness must be excluded from our petitions and that no man can come to God as his Father without acknowledging that his worst enemies are also God's children in the fact that of its seven petitions one, and one only, is for any earthly blessing and even that one in its simplest form."
Prayer in the home leads children to God. It teaches them, as the Bible says, that He is a "rewarder of them that diligently seek Him." They learn that He is good, that He loves us, and that He is willing to help us if we have sufficient faith in Him to keep His commandments. But we shall frustrate the purpose of prayer if we have the tiny tot kneel down while father gives a long, though ever so eloquent, prayer in language that the child doesn't understand, and in which he never really takes part. How many of us remember family prayer as something to be avoided, a long siege on the little knees that ached with the hard strain a prayer that put us to sleep with our heads resting on the large, soft chair instead of in our little white beds. It would seem better that the little ones be spared this. The child can be taught a short prayer, to be said by the bedside, in which he thanks his Heavenly Father for all things given him, and in which he prays for blessings upon those he loves his parents, brothers, and sisters. As he becomes old enough to understand, he should join in family prayers and be permitted to take his turn in expressing a prayer for all. Someone has said, "To pray together is the most tender brotherhood of hope and sympathy that people can contract in this life." Listening to father as an example, the child learns to improve his prayers, to keep them from being prayers of pure selfishness, to pray not so much for earthly things as for light, strength, and courage to carry on, and, if he lacks wisdom in something that seems very vital to him, to ask advice from Him who "giveth to all men liberally." Children also learn that prayers, just as requests to earthly parents, are not all answered in the affirmative, because, as Shakespeare expresses it, "We, ignorant of ourselves beg often our harm which the wise powers deny us for our good; so find we profit by losing our prayers." Children often ask for cake when they should have plain bread.
What joy a mother takes when she notices how family prayers help her boy in a public way; when she sees that he does not hesitate when called upon to pray, because, having practiced daily at home, he has no fear of his own voice, and is confident as he faces an audience that he can say at least a few words. How a mother's heart aches when she sees another mother's son arise to pray, address his Heavenly Father, turn pale, and take his seat because he has never prayed aloud before and is so afraid that all thoughts are driven from his mind. Shame on such a mother to allow a son to go into the world to preach the Gospel thus unprepared! In response to sincere prayer, Joseph Smith the Prophet, received so strongly spiritual growth, soul uplift, and perfect faith in a living Redeemer that the Father and the Son appeared to him; and as a result we have restored to man the Church of Jesus Christ. At one time when the General Conference of the Church was dismissed and approximately ten thousand persons were emerging from the Tabernacle, a stranger, amazed at the crowd, said to a little newsboy, "What is this all about? Where have these people come from? Where are they going? I have never seen the like in any city of this size!" "Oh," said the boy, "don't you know? This has all come from one little prayer by one little boy. Buy a paper, please?" Mothers are able to encourage young people to take part in family prayer by holding before them always the worthy goal of being missionaries, to bring to others the true gospel of Jesus Christ. Family prayer helps the boys and girls to speak before others; it helps them to form sentences; it gives them command of language; and, above all, it gives them a clear unwavering faith in the existence of a Supreme Being, because nearly always they have a special testimony that their prayers are heard and answered. If all activities, such as Priesthood, Sunday School, music, sports, et cetera, are carried on with a view toward making of the boy a good missionary, he will no doubt make one; and if a good conscientious missionary, he will in all probability be a good husband and father the remainder of his life. From the home school, the children go out to establish other homes. How much better this world would be if every child could be reared in a home that is a worthy model for the one he will build. Family prayers are especially necessary at this time when "Men's hearts fail them for fear," and when many families have sons and brothers offering their lives for their homes, their country, and freedom.
FAMILY PRAYER 255
For the safety of absent loved ones, all hearts in a family will turn to God as one heart. Stronger will be the expectations for a favorable answer to its prayers if the family has kept the commandments of our Heavenly Father, for, He says, "I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." If we impress upon our children the thought that He is "bound" if we do His will, surely it will help them to live better lives, and their prayers in the interest of the boys who are in the service of their country will be more effective. We want our boys in the service to keep well; we want them to keep free from evil, and to wield a good influence over others. We want them to serve their country with all their might, and we want them to come home safe and sound. Now if we desire these things sincerely, we will contribute to their realization by living exemplary lives ourselves, and by praying earnestly that such protection and blessings may be granted. Inevitably some of us shall have to pass through the Gethsemane of having our boys not return. Even so, we know through the Gospel that the passing means only an extended separation and that we shall meet them again in eternity. The thousands of little Japanese mothers who have said good-by to their sons do not have such consolation. At a conference in Hawaii one Japanese mother who has been converted to the Latter-day Saint Church testified that the Gospel has been a source of great joy to her. When she was a child she was taught that when she died she would come back to earth as an insect or some large animal; and when she attended a zoo and looked around at the monkeys and crocodiles she wondered with a shudder which animal she might someday be. But after receiving the Gospel she was happy. She knew she could pray to a Supreme Being, and that she would be reunited with her husband and children at some future time. How happy she was while giving this testimony!
And how happy will be the persons who suffer most from this war if they can unselfishly pray as Christ prayed on the cross, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do."
In desert wilds, in midnight gloom, In grateful joy, in trying pain; In laughing youth, or nigh the tomb; Oh! When is prayer unheard or vain?
  APRIL, 1942
A fine faithfulness of Relief Society visiting teachers is exemplified in the work of one of the teachers of the Rigby Stake. The Ririe Ward secretary reports: "You may be interested to hear that one of our sisters, forty-five years of age, rode horseback in January to make her eleven visits in the dry-farm section as a Relief Society visiting teacher, and we are proud of her."