[Vol29 | April 1942 | Sequence: 16 | Category: Article | Title: New Books]

New Books
WESTERN AMERICA, a new book by Howard R. Driggs, is dedicated to the heroic men and women who carried civilization westward across the continent. The book, according to the Foreword, was many years in the making. "Its inception, so far as authorship is concerned, came round the pitch pine firesides of the old West. As an eager boy, the writer heard his parents, grandparents, uncles, aunts, and neighbors relate in homespun style their stirring adventures in crossing the plains and settling the valleys of the mountains.' Added to this firsthand history were other stories of courageous men and women who helped win our War for Freedom and lay the foundations of our Country." Out of it all came a burning interest in the epic of America, an interest that the author has transferred to his book and that is caught by the reader as he follows the outstanding events in the westward march of America as presented by Mr. Driggs in this 299-page story. The book is beautifully illustrated with reproductions of forty watercolor paintings by William H. Jackson, an illustrator who, like the author, knows the West. The New York Times Book Review says of the book, "Here is a Western book for the general reader who wants to feel the lift and enthusiasm of America's sunward migrations.... There never was a book easier to read." Westward America may be purchased for $5.
AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF JOHN BROWN has been arranged and published by his son, John Zimmerman Brown, A. B., M. D. John Brown, a member of the original company of Utah Pioneers of 1847, and father of President Amy Brown Lyman, has already been introduced to Magazine readers by President Lyman in her interesting story "In Retrospect," now appearing in the Magazine. The Autobiography of John Brown consists, in the main, of events as recorded in his journal, and includes a short narrative of his life, brief sketches of members of his family, letters and articles for the press written by John Brown, reproductions of certificates and commissions, together with portraits of his family and associates. In 1846, John Brown as one of the leaders of the Mississippi Saints, conducted this company across the plains from Monroe County, Mississippi, as far west as Pueblo, Colorado. In 1847, as captain of the Thirteenth Ten, he accompanied the Utah pioneers west in President Brigham Young's company and was one of the advance scouts who on July 19, 1847, viewed the Salt Lake Valley from the top of Big Mountain. His life as a missionary, a bishop and a patriarch of the Church, together with his experiences as a military man, an explorer, a colonizer, a merchant, a mayor, and a legislator, are accurately and vividly portrayed in his autobiography. Page 279