[Vol29 | April 1942 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: The Old Ekman]
PERSONAL  ATTITUDE  TOWARD  TITHING  259 
wisdom,  which  he  testifies  the  Lord  of  tithing  to  young  people    might 
gives  him  in  compensation  for  his  profit  by  this  example.     Some  per- 
honest  dealings  with  Him,  he  is  able  sons  will  always  be  willing  to  pay  tith- 
to  maintain  a  standard    of    living  ing  because  it  is  a  commandment  of 
equally  as  high  as  that  of  his  brother  the  Lord.    Others  will  fail  to  do  so 
who  "can't  afford  to  pay  tithing."  when  their  tithed  income  fails  to 
Tithe-paying  has  become  a  habit  purchase  the  things  they  desire.  But 
and  is  a  joyous  experience  for  the  many  more  will  be  willing  to  perse- 
one,  because  he  has  the  proper  men-  vere  in  this  obligation  if  they  can 
tal  attitude  toward  it.  He  sees  the  be  led  to  see  this  doctrine  from  the 
nine  tenths  with  which  the  Lord  standpoint  that  they  merely  hold 
has  blessed  him,  rather  than  the  one  stewardship  over  the  Lord's  tenth, 
tenth  that  he  returns  to  the  Lord.  The  great  many  members  who  arc 
He  considers  himself  simply  as  a  listed  on  the  annual  reports  of  the 
trustee  for  a  portion  of  what  comes  Church  as  partial  or  non-tithepayers 
to  him,  and  he  is  not  tempted  to  is  proof  that  they  do  not  have  the 
use  it  because  he  believes  that  he  right  mental  attitude  toward  this 
must  be  honest  with  his  Master.  It  commandment.  When  our  youth 
is  neither  a  struggle  nor  a  hardship  can  be  taught  to  view  their  earnings 
to  meet  this  requirement;  rather,  it  with  an  attitude  of  gratefulness  that 
is  a  joy.  they  have  been  blessed  with  means 
Mothers  and  fathers  in  the  home,  which  they  can  tithe,  they  will  grow 
and  the  teachers  in  the  Priesthood  to  maturity  as  happy  and  faithful 
quorums  and  auxiliaries  having  to  do  stewards  over  the  tenth  that  should 
with  the  teaching  of  the  principle  be  given  for  the  Lord's  work. 
  ^   
REFLECTIONS 
Joseph  Quinney,  ]i. 
/^NE  moment  ago  I  visioned  yesterday.  Mine  eyes  beheld  the  golden 
hours  as  they  spread  themselves  upon  the  barren  wastes  of  time.  These 
hours  were  mine;  but  time  passed  by,  and  I  awakened  this  morning  ashamed 
and  bent,  not  that  God  would  take  away,  but  that  I  had  lost  the  things 
that  could  and  should  have  been. 
One  moment  ago  I  visioned  yesterday.  Mine  eyes  beheld  the  tribu- 
taries which  build  faith  flowing  ever  and  anon  into  life's  great  stream.  I 
omitted  to  plant  in  fertile  soil  those  seeds  that  grow  into  golden  deeds, 
and  now  I  must  atone  for  those  lost  hours  and  build  again  my  faith  in  him 
who  loves  and  gives. 
One  moment  ago  I  visioned  yesterday.  Mine  eyes  beheld  the  agonies 
of  misspent  time.  Thank  God  that  vision  closed,  and  the  glories  of  a 
newborn  day  are  mine.  They  give  me  hope;  aye,  strength  to  ht  a  man;  to 
gather  up  the  broken  bits  of  life  and  build  a  deeper  faitli  in  those  rich 
promises  that  come  from  God  to  use  for  him  and  my  fellow  men.

Morale:  What  Does  It  Mean  To  Me? 
Mark  K.  Allen 
Psychologist,  Utah  State  Tiainmg  School 
PSYCHOLOGICAL  warfare  has  supreme  sacrifice.    This  faith  must 
kept  pace  in  importance  with  resemble  in  some  ways  that  of  the 
physical  combat  in  the  present  Christ  as  he  walked  into  Gethsem- 
war.    Propaganda  warfare  was  begun  ane  to  offer  his  life  for  the  sins  of 
long  before  the  first  gun  was  fired,  the  world,  for  the  preservation  of 
This  mental  preparation  of  armies  the  ideal  of  human  brotherhood  and 
and  civilians  for  war  is  what  we  call  peace  on  earth. 
morale.     Military  capitulations  are 
always  preceded  by  a  collapse  of  JF  our  morale  for  the  war  is  to  be 
morale.  Morale  has  been  more  ex-  high,  we  must  first  of  all  find  a 
plicitly  defined  as  a  ''condition  of  basis  for  deep  conviction  that  our 
physical  and  emotional  well-being  in  cause  is  right  and  worth  dying  for  if 
the  individual  that  makes  it  possible  necessary.  Let  us,  then,  search  our 
for  him  to  work  and  live  hopefully  souls  for  a  basis  for  this  conviction, 
and  effectively,  feeling  that  he  shares  First  of  all,  let  us  realize  that  we 
the  basic  purposes  of  the  groups  of  are  at  war  and  that,  dislike  it  as  we 
which  he  is  a  member;  and  that  may,  we  must  fight  and  sacrifice 
makes  it  possible  for  him  to  perform  severely  in  one  way  or  another.  Wliat 
his  tasks  with  energy,  enthusiasm,  is  there  in  Latter-day  Saint  belief  and 
and  self-discipline,  sustained  by  a  tradition  to  justify  our  wholehearted 
conviction  that,  in  spite  of  obstacles  support  of  the  war  effort?  We  as  a 
and  conflict,  his  personal  and  social  group  dislike  war  as  intensely  as  any 
ideals  are  worth  pursuing."  (Report  people  do,  but  our  history  is  replete 
of  conference  under  auspices  of  Na-  with  examples  of  pioneer  courage 
tional  Research  Council,  Division  of  and  self-sacrifice.  Why  did  our  pio- 
Anthropology  and  Psychology.  See  neer  forefathers  suffer  the  hardships 
Psychology  Bulletin,  1941,  38,  pp.  of  being  driven  from  Missouri  and 
393'4-)  Nauvoo,  of  being  harassed  by  hostile 
This  definition  will  bear  repeated  Indians  and  the  ever-present  dan- 
reading  and  careful  analysis.  The  gers  of  the  elements  while  searching 
person  with  high  morale  works  hope-  for  a  new  home  in  the  West?  Why 
fully  and  cooperatively  to  accom-  do  many  of  our  grandparents  and 
plish  the  common  purpose,  in  spite  great-grandparents  lie  in  lonely 
of  all  frustration.  This  may  involve  graves  far  from  the  goal  they  sought 
personal  sacrifice  of  many  degrees,  in  the  mountains?  Why  could  Jos- 
from  reducing  one's  sugar  consump-  eph  Smith  and  other  martyrs  face 
tion  to  giving  one's  life  or  the  life  death  so  courageously?  They  all 
of  one's  son.  could  have  chosen  the  easy  way  and 
Unshakable  belief  in  the  right-  capitulated  to  the  enemies  of  free- 
eousness  of  one's  cause  is  an  indis-  dom. 
pensable  condition  for  making  the  But  no!    They  had  faith  in  their 
Page  260

MORALE:  WHAT  DOES  IT  MEAN  TO  ME?  261 
ideals!     Their  morale  was  so  high  ''fighting  mad"— with  perhaps  some 
that  no  obstacles  could  defeat  them,  of  the  same  spirit  with  which  the 
Their  faith  knew  no  fear,  not  even  Christ    drove    the    money-changers 
death.    And  let  us  today  burn  into  from  the  temple— ever  since  the  dic- 
our  minds  what  that  belief  means:  tator  nations  began  oppressing  weak- 
the  right  to  worship  according  to  the  er  peoples.    Latter-day  Saints  need 
dictates  of  our  own  consciences!  look  no  further  than  the  recent  his- 
Our  sons  today  may  be  called  up-  tory  of  these  many  oppressions  to 
on  to  spill  their  blood  for  the  same  find  Christian  justification  for  deep 
cause  their  pioneer  forefathers  did.  and  righteous  indignation  toward  all 
This  is  illustrious  company.  We  must  military  aggressors.  We  should  real- 
realize  that  of  all  of  the  freedoms,  ize,  perhaps  even  more  keenly  than 
religious  freedom  is  most  challenged  other  peoples,  what  this  means,  for 
today  by  godless  tyrants  and  pagans  was  not  our  right  to  worship  and  live 
consecrated  to  the  destruction  of  in  peace  threatened  for  nearly  half 
Christianity.  Christianity  to  them  a  century  by  hostile  neighbors? 
is  the  prattle  of  the  weak,  the  opiate  Christianity  is  threatened  as  al- 
of  the  democracies.  The  attack  on  most  never  before  in  its  two  thou- 
all  religious  freedom  is  already  clear-  sand  years  of  history.  It  is  a  religion 
ly  outlined.  It  consists  first  of  de-  of  peace;  but  when  the  peace-loving 
struction  or  desecration  of  the  mon-  are  bled  and  starved  to  death,  it  must 
uments  of  religion— the  shrines  and  marshal  all  of  its  potential  strength 
sacred  buildings.  Then  religious  to  save  itself.  And  Christianity  can 
leaders  are  restricted  in  their  activi-  be  effective  in  war  because  it  means 
ties  either  by  concentration  camps  brotherly  cooperation  and  personal 
or  rigid  curtailment  of  freedom  of  sacrifice  for  the  common  good, 
speech  and  assembly.  The  dictator  Righteousness  has  never  had  an 
states  tolerate  no  rival  loyalties,  no  easy  time  of  it.  Its  champions  must 
.  religion  but  that  of  rule  by  force.  The  be  strong  men  and  women  who  can 
state,  and  the  state  alone,  is  master,  prove  through  courage  and  sacrifice 
To  them,  the  church  and  the  home  that  they  are  worthy  of  freedom.  The 
are  the  cradles  in  which  weakness  is  forcible  prevention  of  cruelty  and  in- 
nurtured,  and  they  must  give  way  to  justice  is  as  noble  an  ideal  as  any  in 
the  strong  ways  of  the  state.  the  Christian  faith.    If  democracies 
Think  what  would  become  of  the  fail  to  cope  with  the  present  crisis, 
Latter-day  Saint  ideal  of  the  home  it  will  not  be  because  we  are  Chris- 
should  we  lose  the  war!  The  family  tian,  but  because  we  are  not  Chris- 
unit  would  be  destroyed,  and  every-  tian  enough.  It  will  be  because  we 
one  would  be  slaves  to  the  military  do  not  fully  realize  what  tragedy  may 
order.  The  good  life  we  know,  come  to  innocent  people  when  we 
based  on  peace,  freedom,  and  plenty,  are  not  diligent  in  our  war  effort, 
would  be  substituted  by  a  group  life  Every  personal  right  and  luxury  we 
in  which  all  luxuries  would  be  gone  cling  to  in  opposition  to  the  war 
and  many  of  the  necessities.  A  regi-  effort  may  contribute  to  the  loss  of 
mented  society  would  replace  all  life  of  some  of  our  sons  in  the  forces, 
freedoms.  or  death,  or  worse,  to  unprotected 
Many  Latter-day  Saints  have  been  peoples  at  home  or  abroad.     Our