[Vol29 | April 1942 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: The Lambert]
The Old Building Thora Lambert
Editor's note: The following account of early-day activities of the Relief Society women of Kamas Ward, South Summit Stake, is published because it is typical of the early-day activities of Relief Society women in many communities. The erection of Relief Society halls where weekly meetings and socials might be held, and where the women might gather to sew, knit, remodel clothing, prepare burial clothing, make quilts, carpets, etc., was necessary in early days when meetinghouses of the Church were small, consisting in most cases of one room. The women were active in raising funds for the erection of these buildings, and many of these buildings stand today as monuments to the industry and enterprise of the pioneer Relief Society workers. The spirit and energy of the women of Kamas Ward as revealed in this article are characteristic of the spirit and energy of Relief Society women everywhere. Their ability to adapt themselves to circumstances and to accomplish their purposes in the face of difficulties is also typical.
AS I first remember the old Relief Society hall, it was a little log building with chinking and plaster in between the logs on the outside. It was used this way for some time, then Brother Willet S.
Harder put weatherboards on.
This must have been in the late fall or early spring, for I remember him working in the mud. The dimensions of the building were 17 x 18 feet, and it had an 8-foot ceiling. In the center of the front and facing east was a four-paneled door the only outside door. On each side of the door and on either end of the building were windows.
Green shutters covered these windows on the outside. At first the inside walls were whitewashed, then later they were lined with 1 x 8-inch lumber, covered with cloth, and then papered. The ceiling and floor were of tongue-and-grooved lumber. The chimney was in the west end of the building, where stood a four-hole cookstove with little round lifters on each side of the stovepipe to regulate the temperature of the oven.
There were two oven doors, one on each side of the stove. The front of Page 286 the stove had a door with four panels of isinglass, 2  x 3  inches in size, for the firelight to shine through. The door opened into the firebox which had an ashpan underneath it. To clean out the soot one had to remove the ashpan and open a slide at the back of the pan, directly under the firebox.
This four-legged stove stood on a wooden stove-board and was always shining black.
Among other furnishings in the room were a large-size table with drop leaves on either side and a number of yellow chairs to match, lace curtains, and a homemade rag carpet woven with single warp so it would last longer. (Single warp throws the rags up for wear, while double warp throws the warp up to be caught by tacks in shoes, broken, and thus to start a hole.) This rag carpet was woven by Louis Mitchell on a hand loom in yard-wide lengths.
These lengths had been bound on the ends with blue denim and the strips sewed together by hand with coarse, cotton thread and an overcasting stitch. A four-inch layer of clean straw was THE OLD BUILDING OLD RELIEF SOCIETY HALL, KAMAS WARD, SOUTH SUMMIT STAKE under the carpet which had been stretched, one width at a time, so it would be straight and tight.
That carpet was in constant use for twenty years.
Each spring and fall it would be taken up, beaten, and cleaned; new straw would replace the old on a well-scrubbed floor. These Relief Society sisters were immaculate housekeepers.
Everything was kept in its place and properly cared for. A large chest stood at one end of the room, containing sewing materials, such as quilt blocks, knitting, carpet rags, dry goods to be made up for bazaars, two pairs of cards, fine and coarse, for carding wool, and one set of scales with weights ranging from one ounce to four pounds. At one time the pictures of Eliza R.
Snow and Bathsheba Smith hung on the wall. A set of quilting frames always adorned the room.
Holes were bored in the frames, and when the 287 quilt was rolled a wooden peg was thrust through the holes to hold the quilt firm while the quilting continued. If the holes didn't match, the quilt would have to be re-rolled until they did match before the quilting would continue.
Chair backs were used to support the frames while the sisters were quilting. The quilt blocks were cut very accurately, the precision of the work comparing favorably with that done today by professional cutters with modern equipment.
Most of the sisters were beautiful quilters.
Some of the quilt patterns used were church steeple steps, log cabins, sunshine and shade, Irish chain, single and double chain, and numerous others.
Comforters tied with yarn were also made.
Sometimes two colors were combined in these comforters, making them very pretty. I can't recall a time when the sisters were not tearing, cutting, and sewing carpet rags, picking and carding wool into bats, cutting quilt blocks, or quilting.
Turkey red and white bleach were combined a great deal in quilt blocks, as were pink and green.
Delaine pieces for wool tops were used. All the work of making quilts was done by hand.
Years later a sewing machine was added, and large nails were used in place of the wooden pegs to hold the quilting frames firm. The sisters always wore aprons the full length of their dresses.
These aprons were usually white, trimmed with knit or crocheted lace, embroidery, or tucks, and were gathered full onto a band and tied around the waist, with long double bows at the back.
Sunbonnets were usually worn to meeting.
Some had cardboard 288 slats in the headpiece and were plain across the front with long capes at the back; others had a plain, heavy, starched headpiece with tiny ruffles across the front and around the cape.
Calico and gingham dresses and aprons were used for home wear.
