[Vol29 | April 1942 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Protection of vision is vital to America s war LOOK TO YOUR LIGHTING UTAH POWER  LIGHT CO moRALE What does It mean to Me]
290 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL,  1942 
CENTENNIAL  POEM 
Ruth  May  Fox 
One  hundred  years— since  a  seer's  inspiration 
Founded  and  blessed  our  great  organization 
With  this  admonition:  ''Be  faithful,  be  true; 
God  has  opened  the  gates  of  service  for  you. 
"Wife,  sister,  mother— this,  your  God-given  dower; 
He  also  has  given  you  freedom  and  power 
To  develop  your  talents,  a  gift  you  have  sought, 
That  Zion  may  shine  with  the  deeds  you  have  wrought. 
'Tour  special  calling  is  to  visit  and  bless 
The  lonely  and  helpless  and  those  in  distress; 
Be  wise  in  your  service  and  sweet  as  a  dove 
And  God  will  regard  you  his  handmaids  of  love." 
Many  branches  have  sprung  from  that  goodly  seed; 
Many  thousands  rejoiced  in  their  generous  need 
Of  peace  and  good  will;  their  beneficent  aid 
Has  answered  the  pleadings  of  those  who  had  prayed. 
Myriads  of  members  who  live  far  and  near 
Give  praises  to  God  this  centennial  year 
For  the  spirit  of  kindness  which  leads  to  all  good. 
For  the  growth  and  the  strength  of  our  sisterhood. 
Hail  to  the  prophet  of  this  dispensation! 
Hail  to  the  leaders  of  this  generation! 
God  bless  the  members  spread  over  the  world; 
May  their  banner  of  glory  be  ever  unfurled. 
you  can  serve  yOUli  Fflmiiy 
No  Finer  Bread  than 
VITAMIN    ENRICHED 
BETTER  BREAD 
Tune  in  Patty  Jean's  Keep  Fit  Club 
K  U  T  A— 9:30  a.  m.  Daily 
^y^'  It's  Bread  so  Good 
"It's  The  Toast  of  the  Town" 
When   Buying  Mention    Relief   Society   Magazine

We  Mre  ^t   War 
{Continued  horn  page  253) 
all  we  can  do,  there  are  some  things 
that  cannot  be  averted.  They  must 
be  endured,  and  they  should  be  en- 
dured with  that  composure  and  res- 
ignation which  come  from  the  assur- 
ance that  the  Almighty  will  sustain 
us  and  consecrate  to  our  eternal 
good  whatever  sacrifice  we  may  be 
called  upon  to  make. 
We  are  strong  when  our  hearts 
are  contrite,  when  we  are  not  too 
proud  to  pray,  when  we  have  a  set- 
tled faith  in  God,  when  we  have  in 
our  souls  the  assurance  that  He  is 
still  in  His  heavens  keeping  watch 
over  His  children,  when  we  know 
that  He  holds  in  His  hands  the  des- 
tiny of  men  and  nations,  and  that 
in  His  own  way  and  in  His  own  time 
He  will  see  that  justice  is  meted  out 
and  that  righteousness  is  rewarded. 
The  mothers  of  the  Relief  Society 
and  true  mothers  everywhere  abhor 
war  with  all  that  it  implies,  but  they 
are  strong  to  endure  whatever  duty 
or  circumstances  impose  upon  theni. 
The  influence  at  the  fireside,  the 
atmosphere  of  the  home,  is  largely 
in  their  keeping  and  this  influence 
guides  and  blesses  the  world.  "Be 
not  afraid,  only  believe." 
[Benjamin  drranhlin   Wrote: 
ii OE  studious  in  your  profession, 
and  you  will  be  learned.  Be 
industrious  and  frugal,  and  you  will 
be  rich.  Be  sober  and  temperate, 
and  you  wiU  be  healthy.  Be  in  gen- 
eral virtuous,  and  you  will  be  happ\ . 
At  least,  you  will,  by  such  conduct, 
stand  the  best  chance  for  such  con- 
sequences." 
Women  Who 
Love  Quality 
Your  walls,  your  woodwork 
.  .  .  inside  and  out  .  .  .  can  be 
made  easily  and  lastingly 
beautiful  with  FULLER  Paints, 
Enamels,  Varnishes.  Homes 
stay  young  with  color — color 
dreams  come  true  with  FULLER 
Paints  and  Wallpapers.  See 
your  Fuller  Paint  Dealer  for 
cleaning  products,  tools  and 
practical  aids  that  make  home- 
renovation  effective  and  easy. 
FULL€R 
P4INTS 
theu  last 
W.  p.  FULLER  &  CD. 
Salt  Lake  City  &  Ogden,  Utah 
When   Buying  Mention    Relief   Society   Magazine

m\ 
JfW 
s^&W, 
fiAoiect(Mat 
WITH 
Bennett's 
PAINTS 
More  than  100  beautiful  colors  in 
paints  for  all  surfaces — including 
69  exclusive/  exquisite  shades  and 
tints. 
BENNETT  GLASS  &  PAINT  CO. 
Salt  Lake  City 
Dealers  throughout  Utah,  Idaho  and 
neighboring  states. 
TO  AMERICA'S 
WAR 
EFFORT 
LOOK  TO  YOUR  UCHTING/ 
UTAH  POWER  &  LIGHT  CO. 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— APRIL,  1942 
/flora le:    vlyha t   UJoes 
at    mean  c9o    Vie? 
(Continued  from  page  262) 
— sharing  intimately  with  others  the  com- 
mon tasks  and  responsibilities. 
5.  Pleasant  emotional  relationships  at 
home — pleasant  parent-child  and  huband- 
wife  relationships. 
0.  A  sense  of  economic  security — being 
frugal  with  limited  supplies,  producing  for 
one's  own  needs,  and  accumulating  sav- 
ings through  defense  bonds. 
7.  Effective  and  respected  leadership 
and  fairly  rigid  discipline. 
8.  Realistic  techniques  for  facing  real- 
ities of  war — ^keeping  accurately  and  dis- 
passionately informed  on  events  of  the  day, 
taking  the  "long  view"  of  the  news  of  the 
day,  and  refusing  to  listen  to  or  to  carry 
rumors. 
In  review,  we  have  in  this  article 
attempted  to  define  morale.  We 
have  also  considered  the  important 
problem  of  finding  some  basis  for 
convictions  as  the  first  condition  for 
establishing  morale.  Other  problems 
of  maintaining  morale  will  be  dis- 
cussed in  subsequent  articles.  An 
attempt  will  be  made  to  assist  in 
meeting  some  of  the  difficult  per- 
sonal mental  hygiene  problems  con- 
fronting everyone  during  war,  for 
good  mental  health  and  good  morale 
are  almost  synonymous. 
Jt    Stimulus 
a n^HE  love  of  truth  is  the  stimulus 
to  all  noble  conversation.  This 
is  the  root  of  all  the  charities.  The 
tree  which  springs  from  it  may  have 
a  thousand  branches  but  they  will 
all  bear  a  golden  and  generous  fruit- 
age.''— Oiville  Dewey. 
When   Buying  Mention    Relief   Society   Magazine

AII-Year   Training 
For  Serving  Ably  in  the  War  Effort  .  .  . 
Keenly  aware  of  the  national  need  for  leaders  and  technically  trained  persons,  the 
Church  University  has  mustered  its  manpower  and  all  other  resources  for  all-out, 
four-quarter  participation  in  the  war  effort. 
V 
V 
B.  Y.  U.  has  fundamentally  reorganized  classes  to  satisfy  wartime  needs.  For 
example,  foods  and  nutrition  courses  are  now  designed  to  aid  in  maintaining 
physical  efficiency  despite  rationing  and  higher  prices. 
A  much  expanded  program  of  stenographic  and  secretarial  training  has  been 
arranged,  with  full  time  and  night  classes  available  all  summer. 
An  extensive  offering  of  classes  in  Chemistry,  Physics,  Mathematics,  Mechanics, 
etc.,  is  available  for  young  men  training  for  scientific  or  industrial  defense  services 
or  commissions  as  officers. 
"War  courses"   in  meteorology,   celestial  naviation,  etc.,  have  been  added. 
V Through  the  College  of  Applied  Sciences,  scientific  and  technical  experts  of  the 
University  will  be  available  to  help  any  defense  organization  or  industry  with  a 
variety  of  services. 
The    four-quarter   plan    enables    students    to    complete    in   three   years    a    college 
course  which  will  fit  them  to  render  a  high  type  of  service. 
SUMMER  QUARTER 
First  Term,  June  15— July  24  -  Alpine  Term,  July  27— August  29 
BRIGHAM    YOUNG    UNIVERSITY 
PROVO,  UTAH 
Then  spake  Jesus  again  unto  them,  saying,  I 
am  the  light  of  the  world:  he  that  followeth  me