[Vol29 | April 1942 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: This Then Is Gabbott]

THIS THEN IS EASTER Mabel Jones Gabbott
This, then, is Easter this elated Buoyant lilt within my heart, This eagerness to feel, to be Of every living thing a part. The listless lethargy has passed, Gone is the doubt of yesterday; The winter's dreary darkness lifts, Gone now the "everlasting nay." There pulses, poignantly alive, With every breath, through every vein, A longing, striving urge to share In earth's renascent joy and pain. This, then, is Easter this rebirth, Awakening in some sweet way New hope and faith and keen desire; This is His "everlasting yea."
WE ARE AT WAR
all we can do, there are some things that cannot be averted.
They must be endured, and they should be endured with that composure and resignation which come from the assurance that the Almighty will sustain us and consecrate to our eternal good whatever sacrifice we may be called upon to make. We are strong when our hearts are contrite, when we are not too proud to pray, when we have a settled faith in God, when we have in our souls the assurance that He is still in His heavens keeping watch over His children, when we know that He holds in His hands the destiny of men and nations, and that in His own way and in His own time He will see that justice is meted out and that righteousness is rewarded. The mothers of the Relief Society and true mothers everywhere abhor war with all that it implies, but they are strong to endure whatever duty or circumstances impose upon them. The influence at the fireside, the atmosphere of the home, is largely in their keeping and this influence guides and blesses the world. "Be not afraid, only believe." Benjamin Franklin Wrote: BE studious in your profession, Women who love quality Your walls, your woodwork . . . inside and out . . . can be made easily and lastingly beautiful with FULLER Paints, Enamels, Varnishes.
Homes stay young with color  color dreams come true with FULLER Paints and Wallpapers. See your Fuller Paint Dealer for cleaning products, tools and practical aids that make home renovation effective and easy. W.P. Fuller & Co Salt Lake City & Ogden, Utah. Protect What you Have with Bennett s Paints More than 100 beautiful colors in paints for all surfaces-including 69 exclusive, exquisite shades and tints.