[Vol29 | April 1942 | Sequence: 15 | Category: Article | Title: Annie Wells Cannon]

HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon
April with her smiling showers Brings kindly thoughts and pleasant hours.
WITH spring and summer advancing, the stylists are somewhat at a loss to determine what would most please milady during these troublous war days. The desire, naturally, in keeping with the seasons, would be the feminine touch with flowered patterns and trimmings in hats and dress, soft frills and laces, and becoming jewels. However, with everyone socialite, career woman, and even schoolgirl  either called into war service or seeking some kind of war service, the tendency is toward the uniform costume both in fabric and style. With little time for change, it is all rather military and confusing, no matter what the service Red Cross, ferry pilot, munition factory, farm, or what not. After all, what matters so long as women do their part.
JOAN FONTAINE was awarded a gold statuette for the best performance by an actress in 1941 for her work in "Suspicion." "How Green Was My Valley" was proclaimed the outstanding motion picture by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences.
ELIZABETH BERGNER, famed Austrian film actress, has been selected for lead in the picture "Watch on the Rhine," now in the making. Her first American movie was "Paris Calling."
GLADYS RICH, a Utah composer, has finished a cantata, "Messengers of Mercy," dedicated to the National Woman's Relief Society. It is inspirational and pleasing for presentation in this centennial year.
MYRA TAYLOR, of Utah, has accepted a position with a large Minneapolis flour company as first assistant laboratory chemist. She is the first woman chemist employed by this company.
PRINCESS ABIGAIL KAWANANAKOA, one of the last of Hawaiian royalty, has offered her villa near Honolulu to the United States for a rest and recreation center.
SENORITA NOEMI ARRILAGA, of Puerto Rico, is experimenting in extracting fragrance from tropical flowers for distribution to American perfumers now that the essences from Bulgaria, France, and other European nations are unobtainable.
SARAH ANN BRADSHAW QUINNEY, 91, of Logan, Sarah Chappel Bennett, 97, of Midvale, Eunice Stewart Harris, 81, of Provo, and Louise Ellerbeck Felt, 76, of Salt Lake City, all beloved and honored Utah pioneer mothers, temple and Relief Society workers, died this spring.
ANGELA THIRKELL'S new novel, Northbridge Rectory, with its English setting is an amusing satire, and because of its quaint humor it is a delight to read, as is also Countess Waldeck's book, Grand Hotel, the setting of which is Athene Palace in Paris.