[Vol29 | April 1942 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: We Are At War How Shall Hinckley]

THE RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL RADIO BROADCAST 251
We Are At War How Shall We Meet It? Bryant S. Hinckley
THE meaningful and immortal utterance of the Master recorded in Mark 5:36: "Be not afraid, only believe" should be written in textbooks and engraved upon imperishable tablets where all can read and ponder it. Five simple, unimaginative words, but never was more philosophy compressed into fewer letters; never were words more compact with meaning. The Master was the greatest teacher that ever lived, and this is one of His fundamental lessons: "Be not afraid, only believe." Faith and fear are the very antithesis of one another. They represent the two great influences that move the human heart and measure human achievement. Books have been written on the tyranny of fear, and volumes of discourses have been delivered on the meaning of faith. The great mission of man is to overcome the first and cultivate the second. Fear is the common enemy of mankind, the tyrant that pursues and wears down those who do not make war on it. The way to overcome it is by faith. Fear discourages enterprise, discounts endeavor, weakens the will, enfeebles resolution, breeds hesitation, doubt, and defeat. "On the plains of hesitation bleach the bones of countless men who at the dawn of victory sat down to rest, and resting, died." We are all in a measure the victims of fear. No one is entirely free from its blight. To conquer it is the religious obligation of each of us. Dr. Frank Crane, speaking of fear, has this to say: "Fear reaches out its ghostly hands to strangle you in the nick of crisis, just when everything depends upon It is fear that tangles your feet, hangs like a millstone about your neck on your journey; it dims your eye so that you cannot see the truth; roars in your ears until you cannot hear the music all about you; fevers your blood, strains your nerves, and pours its poison into your cup of life. You have one big battle: it is to conquer fear; that done, the world is yours, your own will come to you, and the stars in their courses will fight for you."*
Perhaps the commonest, most universal manifestation of fear is worry. More good people suffer from worry than any other common cause. Fear is at the bottom of it. The Master in His matchless way teaches us the fundamental way of conquering fear. "Only believe," that simple, child-like faith that looks to God as an overruling, beneficent Father who watches with compassion our struggles, and whose hands are extended full of mercy toward us, is a priceless blessing. Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? And one of them shall not fall on the ground without your Father. But the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear ye not therefore; ye are of more value than many sparrows. (Matthew 10: 29-31)
These words, spoken to His disciples, show how effectively He built up their courage. When the spirit of the Redeemer fills the human heart it drives out all fear. Those who are otherwise timid have the fearlessness to face flaming fagots or mob violence. "Perfect love casteth out all fear."
REFERRING for a moment to faith as a factor of human achievement: Faith is defined as "a principle of power," "the moving cause of all action." Every robust life is a life of faith. Every moral leader is impelled by its power. This quality of faith which may be defined as "vision plus valor" is a combination of two attributes: (1) The vision to see things in advance, to project the imagination and see the unreal as real; to discover possibilities. But it must not stop there. If it does, it is only an idle dream. It must have the other attribute: (2) The courage to back one's vision with action, to support it with practical means. This is backing faith by works. Far-seeing men, men of vision, see possibilities and the results which will follow from their development, and then they bring these things to pass. That is how faith works.
We are engaged in a great war, and there are anxious and troubled days for all of us, for all the world. Never before have the resources and man power of the nations been so completely martialed and disciplined for war. Already many of our sons are in the service, and many more may soon be called. No matter how loyal and patriotic we may be, our minds are filled with concern and our hearts with trouble. How can we best meet this situation and other difficult situations? What is it that helps men and women to face death and the stern realities which life imposes upon them? Undoubtedly, a settled faith in God and his goodness is the best support and reinforcement that can come to us in any severe trial. There is no evading the adversities of this great war. We have no choice in these matters. We must face this situation. We must make our contribution in this crisis. To do this we need that composure of mind, that fortitude of soul, that spiritual power, that strength of hand which comes to us from above and which enables us to do our best, to take courage ourselves and to encourage others. We are sustained in this struggle with the assurance that our cause is just and righteous. "Thrice armed is he whose cause is laid in justice." We seek no territorial conquest. We do not covet the wealth nor the domination of other lands. We are fighting for rights and privileges that are more precious than life itself. We are fighting for the divine right of worshiping the Almighty according to the dictates of conscience, for freedom of speech and of the press, for the inestimable privilege of walking the earth as freemen. These great inheritances were won by the toil, sacrifice, and blood of those who bequeathed them to us. They must be preserved. They are worth fighting for and, if needs be, dying for. After we have done (Continued on page 291)
*Crane, Dr. Frank, Everyday Wisdom, page 246.
WE ARE AT WAR HOW SHALL WE MEET IT?