[Vol29 | April 1942 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Article | Title: Little Dreams That Grow Hoggan]

Page 283
Little Dreams That Grow Into Great Achievements Lella Marler Hoggan
Be true to the vision that comes to thy heart, Be true to the radiant gleam, For the things of tomorrow are only a part Of what is today but a dream.  Selected.
BACK of every great achievement is the heroic figure of some man or woman whose life has been dominated by a vision of truth, a dream of beauty, or a great desire to serve mankind. On the long scroll of recorded progress the names of these men and women shine out with ever-increasing radiance.
Emerson once said that, "An institution is but the lengthened shadow of one man." Men tread the hard, beaten path of the ages until one day they awaken to a realization of the fact that their hearts have been touched by a living flame. The light of truth comes singing into their lives and transforms the ancient, dusty pathway into a fragrant blossoming highway.
Having glimpsed a great truth, having visioned a high service to be performed for mankind, these adventurous souls permit this ideal to become an absorbing interest, a ruling purpose of their lives.
They are willing to struggle and suffer and wait for the fulfillment of their high hopes.
Looking back along the years we find that today's accomplishments are but the realization of the dreams of yesterday dreams that grew and Page 284 spread in ever-widening circles until they became achievements. The comforts and conveniences, the luxuries and privileges that humanity enjoys today are ours because of the dreams of yesterday; and because men in the distant past had dreams of freedom, dreams of religious liberty, dreams of a better and a happier world, we today have these precious possessions.
Many men and women from the common walks of life, touched by dreams that became strong convictions, rose to heights of heroism.
From the distant past their words come drifting back to us: "I regret that I have but one life to give for my country," cried Nathan Hale. "Give us liberty or give us death," demanded Patrick Henry. "Be ashamed to die," urged Horace Mann, " until you have won some victory for humanity." "All right," declared Jane Addams quietly, when told by her physicians that she had but six months to live, "I will take that six months to get as near as I can to the one thing I want to do for humanity."
Like the words of a prayer, the solemn sentences of Abraham Lincoln come down to us: "That we here highly resolve that these dead shall not have died in vain that this nation, under God, shall have a new birth of freedom and that government of the people, by the people, LITTLE DREAMS THAT GROW INTO GREAT ACHIEVEMENTS and for the people, shall not perish from the earth." And from a little room in Nauvoo come the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith, words that shaped the pattern of an ideal for eighteen women, words that have been remembered and treasured for a hundred years and that now guide more than a hundred thousand women in their daily struggle toward higher service for humanity.
After advising this little group of women, so long ago, to be merciful and pure in heart, to relieve the poor, to walk together in harmony, and to hold sacred each other's confidences, the Prophet declared, "If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates."
What a promise to send ringing down the years!
What an incentive to worthy endeavor! To walk in the presence of unseen angels is a blessing that anyone should cherish; it is a promise that should lift any life to worthy accomplishments. And so the vision, the sublime 285 words, the accomplishments of the great and the good come down to us out of the past.
Like the surge of the sea they beat upon the shores of today's civilization, challenging us to higher ideals and more heroic achievement. An old Persian proverb runs, "I was common clay until roses were planted in me."
From humble beginnings have come some of the great and significant forces that now sway the world. Let us not forsake our dreams.
Though the necessary work of every day may have long delayed their fulfillment, do not despair.
Marden tells us that our earnest desires are prophesies of our power to make them realities. Our quiet, uneventful lives may be awakened to flowering fragrance. The light of the Gospel carries with it inspiration and spiritual insight. If we will open our hearts to accept it, our lives will radiate a heavenly beauty. We too may walk in the presence of unseen angels.