[Vol29 | April 1942 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Rae B. Barker]

By Rae B. Barker, chairman of the General Board's Membership Committee, a dramatization of the organization meeting of March 17, 1842, an address by President Amy Brown Lyman, and a transcribed message from President Heber J. Grant. The complete text of this program is printed in this issue of the Magazine, pages 245 to 251. This broadcast originated in the Salt Lake Tabernacle, with Elder Richard L. Evans of the First Council of the Seventy, as announcer, and Alexander Schreiner, tabernacle organist, at the organ. The singing of "A Hundred Thousand Strong" was a transcribed rendition by women's voices of the Salt
RELIEF SOCIETY CELEBRATES CENTENNIAL
Lake Tabernacle Choir.
Later during the day telegrams were received from several localities, and other messages arrived in due time by mail, giving indication of the wide area in which this broadcast was heard, including California and other Western states, and southern Alberta in Canada., The other broadcast by the Gen- 'eral Board was presented Sunday evening, March 22, from 9:15 to 9:45, when the regular time for the Church broadcast was graciously released by the Church Radio Committee even though this special Relief Society broadcast interrupted the current series of historical dramati- _ zations, "The Fullness of Times."
This program was broadcast from the studios of KSL, and consisted of episodes adapted from the postponed centennial pageant, highlighting the history of Relief Society during its hundred years, followed by an address by President Amy Brown Lyman, and the transcribed message by President Heber J.
Grant which was to have been used in the pageant. Elder Richard L.
Evans again served as announcer. The broadcast presented by KSL on Tuesday evening, from 7:45 to 8:15, paid special tribute to each of the eight General Presidents of Relief Society and showed discriminating judgment in the selection of the character traits and accomplishments portraying each President. A favorite song of each President followed her respective sketch, thus creating a nice balance of text and song for this program. The words of three of the songs presented were compositions of past General Presidents, Eliza R.
Snow and Emmeline B. Wells.
This salutatory broadcast was fittingly 237 concluded by the reading of the inspiring classical centennial message from the First Presidency, which appears in full in the Relief Society Magazine for March, 1942. Not only for its own program, but also for the two sponsored by the General Board, KSL offered the full cooperation of its staff who gave helpful assistance in the preparation of the script and who during the broadcast performed their respective services with skill and sympathetically interpreted the - characters which were represented. A radio program was also broadcast by the San Fernando Stake Relief Society in Southern California, over Station KMTR, for fifteen minutes between 12:30 and 12:45 p. M. Pacific War Time. At the request of this stake, President Lyman sent a five-minute greeting to be read during this program; other features were greetings from the stake board and songs by the Singing Mothers.
Greetings and Gifts All three members of the Presiding Bishopric listened to the first broadcast on March 17 in the General Board Room, arriving promptly at 8:00 a. M. And bringing with them a beautifully decorated birthday cake, surmounted by a model of the tower of the centennial campanile and surrounded by one hundred gilded candles.
This cake, beautifully frosted in white and artistically decorated in blue, with the candles and the years 1842-1942 in gold, was made by Hugo Ebmeyer, who had spent the entire previous night in its preparation. The framework for the lovely frosted replica of the campanile was made by Elder A. S.
Kienke from the picture on the cover of the January issue of the Magazine, 

  APRIL, 1942 EMBROIDERED BANNER FROM ARGENTINE MISSION Conveying Centennial Message: "We, the Sisters of the Argentine Mission, Join Hands With Our Sisters of the North in Love and Appreciation to Commemorate the Centennial of Our Beloved Relief Society."
This surprise by the Presiding Bishopric called for an impromptu reception, which was held between 12:00 noon and 1:30 p. M., immediately after the tree-planting, and which was attended by as many of the General Authorities of the Church, the executives of other Church auxiliaries, and present and former members of the General Board of Relief Society as could attend on short notice hurriedly extended by telephone. The General Board Room was beautifully decorated for this occasion by lovely flowers sent by the General Board of the Deseret Sunday School Union, the General Board of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, KSL, Highland Stake Relief Society, North Davis Stake Relief Society, and Dr. And Mrs. F. M. McHugh. The General Boards of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association and the Primary Association joined in the gift of spring flowers in the Relief Society colors, blue and gold, arranged in one of the hand-made copper bowls carried exclusively by the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop.
Richly contrasted against the copper bowl and gleaming under the water surrounding the flowers were one hundred silver dollars one for each year of Relief Society's century a contribution toward the Relief Society centennial campanile to be erected on Temple Square. The written message accompanying this gift, signed by Lucy G. Cannon, General President of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, and by May Green Hinckley, RELIEF SOCIETY CELEBRATES CENTENNIAL General Superintendent of the Pnmary Association, said in_ part: "With you our hearts are full of thanksgiving and praise to the Lord for the inspiration which He gave to the Prophet Joseph Smith to 'turn the key' for women. In organizing the Relief Society he not only opened up a great avenue of development and progress for mothers, but for all the childhood, girlhood, and womanhood of the Church.
Through your organization the whole Church has been blessed.... The Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association and the Primary Association desire ever to stand by you and to work with you in the glorious cause of womanhood.": An unusual gift of originality and artistry was the banner, pictured here, received by clipper-express from the women of the Argentine Mission.
Reproduced on page 235 is the letter from this Mission which gives details concerning this beautiful greeting.
Telegrams and special messages of congratulation and appreciation were received from numerous organizations and individuals, and many expressions of appreciation and loyalty came to the General Board from stake and ward Relief Societies. Publicity All of the Church periodicals, The Improvement Era, The Children's Friend, and The Instructor, gave special recognition in_ their March issues to the Relief Society centennial, as did also several issues of the weekly Church Edition of the Deseret News, and many of the monthly bulletins published by the various missions. 'The March issue of the Society's own Magazine was devoted largely to recognition of the centennial, containing among other special features centennial messages from the General Authorities of the 239
Church and their pictures, making it an unusually precious number which will be preserved and cherished by Relief Society women throughout the Church. The newspaper clippings reproduced here are representative of those reaching the office daily from many parts of the country, indicating the extent of the publicity accorded the Relief Society centennial through the medium of the press. Displays During the entire week in which the Relief Society centennial occurred, March 16 through March 22, 1942, Zion's Cooperative Mercantile Institution gave valuable space in its north group of windows on Main Street to a display of Relief Society relics, souvenirs, and other representative material. This display was attractively arranged and adequately identified by placards. Among the exhibits were two interesting old Relief Society banners, copies of books used in study courses, copies of The Woman's Exponent, The Relief Society Magazine, and other publications of the Society, the centennial souvenirs, the scale model of the campanile, a collection of the unique handwork of Relief Society women of the South Sea Islands, and numerous other articles of historical interest. Adding greatly to the significance of the display and serving to unify the miscellany, were large pairs of placards arranged as in an open, three-ring, loose-leaf binder, comparing 1842 with 1942 from the standpoint of opportunities for women, household appliances, health, medical care, transportation, and other phases and activities of life. This exhibit 

  APRIL, 1942 CENTENNIAL SOUVENIRS ISSUED BY GENERAL BOARD A Centenary of Relief Society, Historical and Pictorial Souvenir Book; Our Legacy  Anthology of Verse by Latter-day Saint Women, 1835-1942; Commemorative Plate Depicting Organization Meeting; Top Center, Enlarged Reproduction of Relief Society Pin; Lower Left, Gummed Seal of Official Centennial Insignia.
Aroused much interest and was the means of directing attention in Salt Lake's business district to Relief Society's important anniversary.
Similar exhibits were held in other communities.
Also displayed during the week of the centennial, in the window of the Mormon Handicraft Gift Shop, was the unique and exquisite set of twenty-one 8-inch dolls, representative of the eighteen' charter members of Relief Society, and President Joseph Smith, and Elders John Taylor and Willard Richards, who participated in the organization.
These dolls, remarkable for their individuality of facial expression and authentically representing the clothing styles of the period, were made by Mrs. Johanna Chavre, creator of authentic pioneer and other character dolls, and were to have been a special feature of the exhibit planned as a part of the general centennial celebration. Centennial Contests and Compositions In recognition of the centennial, the General Board specified that the entries in the 1941 annual Eliza R. Snow Memorial Prize Poem Contest be limited to poems with a Relief Society centennial theme. All three prize-winning poems were published in the Relief Society Magazine for January 1942, and in Our Legacy  Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse.
They were "Brave, Priy- RELIEF SOCIETY CELEBRATES CENTENNIAL ileged Feet," by Eva Willes Wangsgaard, "Spacious Century, 1842- 1942," by Vesta Pierce Crawford, and "Centennial," by Zella A. Johnson.
Also in recognition of the centennial, the General Board conducted the first short story contest in its history, with the stipulation that the entries must have a Relief Society centennial theme. The three prizewinning stories were published consecutively in the first three issues of the Relief Society Magazine in 1942. The first prize was awarded to Alice Mortey Bailey for "Wilderness," the second to Mable Harmer for "Inheritance," and the third to Vera Hinckley Mayhew for "Men Must Work."
These prize-winning poems and stories were used in many of the ward centennial celebrations, as also were the winning entries in the several similar contests conducted by various stake and ward Relief Societies.
Some of the stakes published commendable little collections of verse by their own Relief Society women. Two official centennial songs were composed at the request of the General Board and issued in November 1941, both punched to fit the looseleaf Relief Society Song Book.
Words and music for "A Song of Triumph," were composed by the late Beatrice F. Stevens, member of the General Board, well known by Relief Society women for her earlier compositions, among them the Relief Society rally song, "A Hundred 'Thousand Strong," which captured - the spirit of the membership campaign and is sung in many lands. Dr. Florence Jepperson Madsen, mem- 241 ber of the Board, composed the music, and Dr. Carlton Culmsee the words of "In Thy Form," written especially for three-part women's choruses.
Both centennial songs, which were to have been sung at the general centennial concert by 1,500
Relief Society Singing Mothers, were featured at many of the local celebrations, particularly those presenting Singing Mothers' concerts.
Several wards included in centennial programs the musical compositions of their own Relief Society women, and others presented the cantata, "Messengers of Mercy," for which music was composed by Gladys Rich and words by Minnie D. Warner, and which was dedicated to President Amy Brown Lyman. "Resurrection Morning," by the late B. Cecil Gates, which also was to have constituted part of the great centennial concert was sung in full or in part by many choruses of Singing Mothers on or near March 17. Centennial Souvenirs Special souvenirs of the centennial issued by the General Board during 1941 the Relief Society pin, commemorative plate, anthology otf verse, and the centennial insignia in the form of gummed seals had been widely distributed by March 17, 1942. By this date, six months after the pin first became available in September, 1941, nearly 5,000 pins had been purchased.
This beautiful membership pin, provided in two grades but of identical design, size, cand coloring, is not limited to use in the centennial year, but will be continued in stock as the official Relief Society pin. The 10-inch centennial plate, depicting the first Relicf Society meeting, and Our Legacy  242 - Relief Society Centennial Anthology of Verse, both of which were issued just prior to Christmas 1941, are being well received. The official Relief Society centennial insignia, reproduced in blue and gold on a gummed sticker, was extensively used during the centennial year, and particularly at the time of the anniversary celebration, in a variety of ways, such as on programs, placecards, special booklets, and stationery.
First issued in September 1941, the entire supply of 200,000 of these stickers was exhausted by March 17, but has since been replenished and these seals will be available hereafter. The official centennial insignia also appeared on new stationery of the General Board, lithographed in blue and gold, which went into use in August 1941, and on the membership cards issued September 1941, for use during the ensuing 1941-42 membership year. A one-color reproduction of this insignia embellished the cards containing the Articles of Faith which were distributed, one to a family, in all Englishspeaking wards and branches of the Church in December 1941.
This insignia also appears for the first time in the name plate of the Magazine in this issue, page 225.
Another souvenir of the centennial, A Centenary of Relief Society, a g6-page historical and_ pictorial book, size 9 x 12 inches, is to come off the press May 1, 1942.
Publication of this book was purposely set for this time so that it could include a record of the great general centennial celebration and conference.
This valuable book will not be delayed until such time as the general celebration may later be held, but will be issued as scheduled, comRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE APRIL, 1942 memorating in picture and story the dramatic history of Relief Society's one hundred years.. All of the personal souvenirs the pin, plate, anthology, and historical book though nominal in cost, are mementos of the centennial which will be increasingly cherished as time goes on by those who held membership in the Society during its centennial year, and will be handed down to their daughters and granddaughters, the future members ot the Society. Relief Society's Centennial Gift to the Church Construction of Relief Society's centennial gift to the Church, the graceful memorial campanile (bell tower), 35 feet in height, described in the Magazine for January, 1942, is going forward with the expectation that this memorial will be set in place during the summer of 1942, on the designated site on Temple Square near the north gates.
Accompanying is a picture of the skilled artisans completing the handwrought bronze tower in which the historic Nauvoo Temple bell will be hung. In the meantime, the bluegrey granite for the base is being cut and polished, and Utah-born Avard Fairbanks is working on the four sculptured plaques which are to surround the base.
Arrangements are being made so that the historic bell may be rung and it is hoped that the tower may later be used for broadcasting 'Tabernacle organ music, conference addresses, and recorded music and messages on Temple Square.
Realizing and appreciating the privilege accorded the Society by the Authorities of the Church in permitting erection of this memorial on
RELIEF SOCIETY CELEBRATES CENTENNIAL 243 ARTISANS COMPLETING THE HAND-WROUGHT BRONZE TOWER For the Relief Society Centennial Memorial Campanile. Inset The Historic Nauvoo Temple Bell To Be Hung in the Tower Temple Square, and removal of the bell from the Church museum to the tower, voluntary contributions toward this centennial gift are being made by Relief Society women throughout the Church, by men wishing to honor their grandmothers, mothers, wives, or sisters who have been or now are Relief Society members, and by other interested individuals. At the Threshold of a New Century Observance of the centennial has engendered Church-wide retrospection, introspection, and evaluation of the Society, its history, purposes, and accomplishments.
This long and discerning look at Relief Society's one hundred years has brought to the women of the Church new appreciation for the Society in which they are privileged to hold membership, and has increased their awareness that the inception of the Society was divinely inspired; that the purposes of the original organization are still the principal concern of all Relief Societies today wherever located; that there is still need in all communities of the Church, irrespective of their varied geographical location, for the same helpful, friendly, sympathetic, human services as - those performed by the women of Nauvoo at the inception of the Society, despite the great social and economic changes which have occurred in the meantime; that in ad- 244 lering to its initial assignment the Society has not clung to customs and functions for which there is no need today, but that it has adapted its human services to a changing era, risen to meet new needs, expanded its program, and endeavored 'always to improve the methods by which it carries forward its timeless objectives. On the threshold of this new century of service stand 115,000 members of the Society which began its first hundred years with but eighteen women; 30,000 visiting teachers now carry on the system of friendly visiting begun in 1843 by a "necessity committee" of only sixteen; disbursements for charitable purposes amounted to $97,000.00 in the hundredth year, as compared with $306.48 expended for the relief of the poor during the Society's first year; 23,000 officers are now gaining administrative experience in conducting the nearly 2,400 administra-, tive units, observing parliamentary usage as did the first Relief Society when there were no precedents and patterns for women's organizations; unnumbered thousands of experienced needle-women are making bedding and clothing for those in need, a service performed throughout the century since its initiation by the Relief Society women of Nauvoo who assembled materials and made bedding and clothing to be "given to such as are suffering cold and nakedness"; and thousands of women are conducting regular classes, instituted during the second half RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE APRIL, 1942 of the first century in the weekly meetings of the Society on religious, cultural, and home-making subjects.
Although the busy women in the days of Nauvoo and in the subsequent pioneer period did not have opportunity for the classwork which is now an important part of every local Relief Society, they frequently bore testimony of their faith in the Gospel of Jesus Christ, as do the women of today, and established the dual concept of spiritual development for the women of the Society and of compassionate human service by the women of the Society, which has characterized the organization from its beginning. Encouraged, strengthened, and enriched by the review of the past, the members of the Society now look to the future as did Eliza R.
Snow ninety-nine years ago, who in the first annual report of the secretary wrote, "More has been accomplished than our most sanguine anticipations predicted, and through the assistance and blessing of God, what may we not hope for the future?" President Amy Brown Lyman in her centennial phonograph message also faced the Society toward the future by these words: "We feel that we must use the lessons of the past to build for tomorrow, but in so doing, we must not cast such longing eyes at the past that we fail to view the possibilities and the glories of the future."