[Vol29 | April 1942 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: The Luxuriant Ostegar]
Many times tears sprang involuntarily to her eyes, and she felt that though no other benefit might come from her reading these journals, the unwavering faith of those pioneer Saints, and the remarkable way in which many times this faith was rewarded, would at least give her a testimony never to be forgotten. She began to realize the "luxury of doing good."
Then as she turned a page she found; THE LUXURIANT HARVEST Oct. 25, 1856.
There are many sick among us. The number increases daily. Capt. Ebenezer Black is very ill, and I have been asked to supervise his company as well as my own. Due to the great number of sick we are traveling very slowly, some days we only make four or five miles. The snow is deep, and if we do not receive help, it seems that we must all perish.
There couldn't be two Ebenezer Blacks! Elizabeth's heart was pounding with excitement as she further read: Oct. 27, 1856.
This morning at 4 a. M. Capt. Mahlon Ebenezer Black passed away and has gone to his reward.
Although many have died along the way, this is one of the saddest cases yet to be recorded. Brother Black, together with his small, frail wife, his son William, 12 years of age, and his two small daughters, are from Liverpool, England.
They arrived at the settlements on the Missouri River in early June, almost destitute, having spent their last cent for transportation from England. Brother Black obtained work during the months of June and July to provide the necessary supplies to take his family to the Valley, and left with our company, which was to be the last this year. He was blessed with great faith. He was tall and strong and often went without food that his wife and children might be fed and also other members of his company. He was so weakened through starvation that when the fever struck him he could not fight it off and fell a victim.
What his poor wife and three small children will do is beyond me! We dug a shallow grave, wrapped Brother Black in a blanket, although blankets are now very scarce, and laid him away beneath the frozen ground, Captain Cluff preaching the funeral sermon. Sister Black goes fearlessly on, she is indeed a brave woman. We traveled but a few short miles today.
When camp was made, and after our meager repast (there is still a little corn in the company, and we trapped a few rabbits), young twelve-year-old William Black came to me. He was weeping, and asked me if I would kneel and pray with him.
That boy's prayer is still ringing in my ears: ""O Father, help me to be a man, to have strength to care for my mother and sisters.
Help me to be able to take them to Zion and there build them a home, as my father would have done. O God, make me a real man, and help me to take his place. Amen." The tears were streaming down Elizabeth's face when she finished. She could not choke back the sobs! She felt weak and very, very small and inconsequential.
There was her story the story for which she had prayed. She had early in life heard her mother tell how her grandfather, William Black, was very short of stature having worked so hard when a mere boy to make a home for his mother and sisters in the Salt Lake Valley. And now the story was complete! "And to think," she sobbed, "how near I came to refusing to help Sister Davis!"
