Protection of vision is vital to America s war LOOK TO YOUR LIGHTING! UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. moRALE: What does It mean to Me (Continued from page 262)  sharing intimately with others the common tasks and responsibilities. 5.
Pleasant emotional relationships at home  pleasant parent-child and husband wife relationships. 0. A sense of economic security  being frugal with limited supplies, producing for one's own needs, and accumulating savings through defense bonds. 7.
Effective and respected leadership and fairly rigid discipline. 8.
Realistic techniques for facing realities of war  ^keeping accurately and dispassionately informed on events of the day, taking the "long view" of the news of the day, and refusing to listen to or to carry rumors. In review, we have in this article attempted to define morale. We have also considered the important problem of finding some basis for convictions as the first condition for establishing morale.
Other problems of maintaining morale will be discussed in subsequent articles. An attempt will be made to assist in meeting some of the difficult personal mental hygiene problems confronting everyone during war, for good mental health and good morale are almost synonymous. A Stimulus THE love of truth is the stimulus to all noble conversation.
This is the root of all the charities. The tree which springs from it may have a thousand branches but they will all bear a golden and generous fruitage.''  Orville Dewey. 
All-Year Training For Serving Ably in the War Effort . . .
To train the thousands of skilled workers and technically trained persons, the Church University has mustered its manpower and all other resources for all-out war-quarter participation in the conflict.
V B. Y. U. has fundamentally reorganized classes to satisfy wartime needs. For example, basic and nutrition courses are now designed to aid in maintaining physical efficiency despite rationing and higher prices.
V A much expanded program of stenographic and secretarial training has been added as well as intensified courses for accountants.
V An extensive offering of classes in Chemistry, Physics, Mathematics, Mechanics, etc., is available for young men training for scientific or industrial defense services or commissions as officers.
V "War courses" in meteorology, celestial navigation, etc., have been added.
V Through the College of Applied Sciences, scientific and technical experts of the University stand prepared to help any defense organization or industry with a variety of services.
The four-quarter plan enables students to complete in three years a college course which will fit them to render a high type of service.
SUMMER QUARTER
First Term, June 15 July 24 - Alpine Term, July 27 August 29
BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PROVO, UTAH
Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.  John 8:12.
?
LARKIN MORTUARIES
Ogden, Utah Los Angeles, California 466 24th St 6003 Compton Avenue Dial 7523 Jefferson 1244
Salt Lake City, Utah 260 East South Temple Dial 4-6126