[Vol29 | April 1942 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Editorial | Title: The]

EDITORIAL
Vol. 29 APRIL, 1942 No. 4
The Significance of Centennial
OUR long-awaited centennial birthday has now passed into history even as the organization day of the Society passed into history. For many, many months the one-hundredth birthday of Relief Society has claimed the attention of Relief Society women. Interest, enthusiasm, and effort gained momentum as the occasion drew near, until the few months immediately preceding March 17, 1942, Relief Society women everywhere were found devoting hour after hour of time, their very best thought, talent, and effort toward the appropriate observance of this eventful day. All of this effort has been proper, because a centennial is indeed an important event. Any institution that endures for one hundred years has something of worth to perpetuate it. An institution that has the power to interest and influence the lives of tens of thousands of women over a period of time that extends from an early pioneering era to one of great social and industrial advancement, merits recognition and honor on its one-hundredth birthday. A centennial sends us back into the past and many things that have been hidden in the records are brought to light. We become better acquainted with the values that have perpetuated the institution and drawn people to it. We become familiar with the vision and the faith which triumphed, often over disheartening conditions and temporary disappointments. We recognize the devotion and the work that have Page 276 built the structure. We learn the difficulties that have been encountered and the struggle that has gone into each achievement, and so we prize more highly that which the institution offers us. We become better acquainted with the personalities that have directed the growth of the organization, and we are not only inspired by their greatness, but we take heart, seeing in them many of the attributes which we ourselves possess. Relief Society has been wonderfully blessed in its leadership both general and local. Few societies can boast so many women possessed of such articulate and outstanding leadership strength. As we view the past we quickly recognize this strength, but in our admiration for what we have had we must not lose sight of that which we now possess. The Society today is led by a president who has served it as a general officer for more than one-third its century. President Amy Brown Lyman is well-acquainted with the history and purposes of Relief Society. Her native endowments, her rich life experiences, and her devotion to the Church and to Relief Society give to us of this day a leader of rare ability. Sister Lyman is supported by a General Board composed of gifted and energetic women who earnestly desire to promote the well-being of Relief Society. Nearly 23,000 faithful Latter-day Saint women, well qualified as executive and special officers, direct the work of the Society in the stakes and missions, wards and EDITORIAL branches of the Church. The ability of Relief Society leaders has been proved time and time again, but perhaps never more convincingly than in the recent membership-building program when approximately 25,000 women were enrolled in one year, and in the quality of the recent centennial programs. Our centennial observance is a history-making event.
Just as we today read with interest the accounts of important events of the past, so future generations will view what we have done on this important occasion. And while some of our original plans were not carried to full fruition, due to the war, most of them were realized, and programs 277 that were substituted for those we had to forego touched the lives of individual members even more intimately perhaps than our original plans would have allowed, and the observance, from every point of view, proved impressive and satisfying. Our centennial will go down in history creditably. We who have been privileged to participate in this history-making event have been highly favored.
Through it our appreciation for Relief Society has been deepened and our testimonies of the truth of the Gospel strengthened.
Love has been engendered in us, so that we feel willing to rededicate ourselves to the service of this great organization.