Beatrice Stevens Wins Recognition
The Relief Society General Board is very proud of the recent recognition that has come to one of its members, Mrs. Beatrice Farley Stevens. On February 28, 1941, the University of Utah announced the selection of "Hail Utah" a composition by Mrs. Stevens, as its new Alma Mater song. The song was introduced to the student body on the occasion of the ninety-first anniversary of the founding of the institution. For several years, the school has felt a need for a new Alma Mater song which would be appropriate for use on all occasions, particularly those of a more formal nature. Efforts have been made at various times to secure such a song. Last year an invitational contest was held in the interest of securing something appropriate. A number of gifted composers were invited to enter their work in the contest. Mrs. Stevens was among those so honored. From the group of compositions submitted, three were selected to be privately voted upon by the student body. The voting resulted in the selection of Mrs. Stevens' song, "Hail Utah." The General Board is very grateful for the accomplished service which Mrs. Stevens renders to Relief Society. In addition to other responsibilities, she has for several years been an active member of the General Board Music Committee, and is its present chairman. She has worked diligently in furthering Singing Mothers' choruses throughout the Church, and the success of these choruses is a source of pride to the Society. She is perhaps best known to Relief Society women for her composition, "A Hundred Thousand Strong," written as a rally song for the Relief Society membership campaign. As a member of the music committee, she assisted in the preparation of the new Relief Society Song Book, which includes two of her compositions, "The Work We're Called To Do," and "Our Father In Heaven." She is also the author of "The Magic Bowl," Mutual Improvement Association prize-winning operetta. As we contemplate the accomplishments of Relief Society women in all lines, both collectively and individually, our hearts rejoice and we thank our Heavenly Father for His goodness to us. We congratulate Mrs. Stevens upon her achievements, and extend our best wishes for continued success in her musical activities. The words of "Hail Utah" are published on page 240 of this issue of the Magazine.