The price of books in first editions may make HELPFUL AIDS TO READING their purchase prohibitive, but reprints of many choice books are always available at moderate prices. No discussion of books and reading would be complete without a word on the Bible. Francis C. Stifler called it, "The Unread Best Seller." The fact that the Bible may be purchased in chain stores proves that it sells. The American Bible Society in a little over fifty years distributed over one hundred million Bibles. In the United States in 1939, it was published in eighty-two languages, while parts of it have appeared in 1,039 different tongues. The extent of its influence and its great value are difficult to measure. We know, however, that it is not read and enjoyed enough for its true worth and beauty. There is a true lack of knowledge as to how to read it. Professor R. G. Moulton's Modern Readers' Bible is so arranged as to make the reading easy and enjoyable. 'The Bible content is arranged into literary forms, such as poems, stories, songs, and so on. The customary reading of a few isolated sentences or verses each day does not lead to a true appreciation of the literary value of the book. Two men were discussing this greatest of all books. The first complained, "I can't enjoy reading it. There are so many verses I do not understand." 'The second replied, "Forget those. The ones that bother me are the verses I do understand and cannot live, such as, "Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them.' " There are three services which books may render in the home: they 279 may be ornaments, tools, or friends There is an air of distinction and true beauty in a well-filled case of attractively-bound books. But if their contents are never known, the greatest part of their value has been lost. Each home ought to have books to be used as tools, and the children should be taught how to use them. There should be at least an atlas, a dictionary and an encyclopedia. In these days when libraries are so accessible, the family can look to the library for many tools they may need. Perhaps the greatest use of good books is their use as friends. The time and extent of their visit is at the reader's command. They may be picked up or put away at will. Yet one can always find the advice, the understanding or inspiration he needs if he is familiar with the works of our great writers. No lover of books is ever alone. Pleasure obtained in this way increases as age comes upon us. From books we gain inspiration, companionship, an outlet for our pent emotions, forgetfulness from our sorrows, and we experience joy in the fulfillment of our unsatisfied desires. Our greatest reward for good reading, according to the Doctrine and Covenants 130:18-19, will come hereafter. "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much the advantage in the world to come." Some Literary Friends Florence Ivins Hyde No. VIII Seaching Gdeals HERE is an old legend which tells of a mother praying by the cradle of her infant child, that it might be blessed with some special gift. She hears the voices of angels. "I am Health!" says one. "Whomsoever I touch shall never know pain." "I am Wealth!" another cried. '"Whomsoever I touch shall never know want." "I am Fame!" said a_ third. "Whomsoever I touch shall be remembered." | A fourth declared: "I am power! Whomsoever I touch shall have dominion." "I am Wisdom!" said a fifth. "Whomsoever I touch shall have knowledge." "T am Love!" cried the sixth. "Whomsoever I touch shall win the world's affection." Then came the last of the angels, the voice of the seventh, "I am none of these. Whomsoever I touch shall have High Ideals!" And the mother cried with outstretched arms, "You, with the High Ideals, touch my child." Embodied in this ancient legend is the eternal truth that in the power to live by ideals lies salvation. DEALS are important, because they determine the type of life we live. If they are what they should be, through them we are able to resist temptation and gain mastery over ourselves. Some knowledge of the teaching of ideals is important to parents. Mr. W. W. Charters, Professor of Education at the University of Chicago, has written a book entitled, The Teaching of Ideals, which is extremely valuable to parents and teachers. Professor Charters jumps right into the principles involved in the teaching of ideals. "An ideal will not grow," he says, "if a desire for it is not created. No one will become honest if he does not believe in honesty, nor industrious if he does not admire industry. Superficially, he may act like honest men but will not possess the ideal. We must love righteousness before we can become truly righteous." Next, we must develop a plan of action. '""Ihe desire to be neat, etc., should be followed by a plan of applying the ideal to the situations of life. A boy may desire to be neat but not know exactly what to do until you tell him to hang up his trousers, or pick up his socks. Careless teachers merely say, 'Do better,' or 'Get to work,' but artistic teachers develop these procedures in great detail to a point where the children know what to do." If we want to have children actually develop desirable traits rather than merely feel a desire to possess them, it is essential that we show them exactly how a trait is manifested in different situations; for example, after telling the story of the SOME LITERARY FRIENDS gallantry of Sir Walter Raleigh, ask, "What would he have done in a street car, or at the door of his home upon greeting a stranger?" Another principle in developing ideals is that of practice. "The test is found in conduct, not in desires. For an ideal to be developed, it is necessary that it be carried over into behavior. To become a part of one's life, actions which express the ideal must be reduced to a habit." To develop love for one's neighbor, it is necessary to do something for one's neighbor. The thing we strive for is to unconsciously act in accordance with the ideal; for example, to be unconsciously neat or honest or courteous. Concentrating upon the right procedure, it is possible to accomplish in a short time what might require a long period by letting nature take its course?just as Burbank with ten years of intensive culture developed variations - in plants which would have taken 500 years if left to nature. "It is possible by intensive training to change in a comparatively short time a person's attitude from one of unfriendly criticism to one of friendliness, which could never be attained without guidance. Ambition can be intensively developed; accuracy can be improved by attention; initiative can be increased; and resourcefulness is one of the easiest traits to work upon. "There is a limit, though, to trait development. An insensitive boor can never become as tactful as an intelligent gentleman. An easy-going person can not achieve vaulting ambition, nor can an impulsive person develop. The good judgment and 271 poise of a Socrates. But the germs of high ideals are found in most children. Develop them." Mr. Charters disagrees with those who believe in "original sin." He contends that a child inherits more good than bad tendencies, and we must make environment serve our ends. There is always something unattainable about ideals, but we can attain them to a great enough degree to make them of infinite value, for upon them depends largely our behavior, and our behavior is one of the most important things in the world to us. We must remember this principle: character grows only through conduct and action. Moral instruction is largely wasted unless it is applied to our own problems. This is often difficult to do. Talks about the virtues are useful in creating desires, but to say to a child, "Be polite," is useless unless you show him that being polite involves such things as arising from his chair when a guest enters the room or offering his seat to a lady or older person. A child must deal properly with numerous cases of politeness before he becomes polite. 'This can not be done hurriedly. Only by "line upon line, precept upon precept, here a little, there a little" can right behavior be developed. Literature and history offer a storehouse for the building of ideals. Such terms as courtesy, neatness, thrift, are abstract terms, too general to be understood by children unless followed by assignments they are able to carry out; for example, the story of the "Prodigal Son" has, in my opinion, a wealth of material for a lesson in thrift. The Prodigal 272 wasted his money, as well as his life, while away from home. To be sure, he was feted by his father because of the joy he felt at his return, but his money was gone. He must begin all over again. It would take a long time to catch up with his brother. A proper time to tell this story is when a child is tempted, as he so often is, to spend his money for some foolish thing. After the story, be sure that he puts at least some of his earnings in the savings bank. Unless he does that, the story has lost much of its value. T is natural for all of us to repeat an action from which we get satisfaction and to avoid the things that bring annoyance. Mr. Charters says, "To induce children to learn, we must reward them; to induce them to discard an activity, we must penalize them.... Rewards may be material or spiritual. Material rewards do not always follow a good action. Frequently a man sacrifices wealth for a quiet conscience or the approval of friends. Some satisfaction is immediate and some is future. Boys and girls work their way through school because they have pictures of future success. These future satisfactions are of tremendous power.... "Seldom do we experience pure satisfaction or pure discomfort.... There is always a mixture of pleasure and pain." In speaking of the ideal of honesty, Mr. Charters says, "The reputation that a man's word is as good as his bond may cause him to forego wealth and the happiness which comes from its possession. 'To many men, there comes a tragic moment when they have to choose between making a fortune questionably or 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1941

 losing it by remaining honest. When they decide to be honest, they do not experience pure pleasure. 'They think of what they might have had and regret the spiritual necessity for ~ their choice. "A high school coach once failed to create sentiment in the student body against the boys smoking during training season. He finally said he would remove from the team any boy who smoked, making his plea to the boys on the basis of loyalty to the school. Before the game, he caught the star halfback smoking. A real problem arose. Without him, the game was lost. But he must keep his promise or lose his prestige as coach of the champion team and have the hostility of the students. He removed the boy and lost the game, but the next year the team did not smoke." It is important that we develop high ideals of a spiritual nature. Without them, people will inevitably follow the path of least resistance. In spite of the beauty of life, if we face it honestly we realize that it brings unhappiness that few people are able to surmount without help. Religious ideals solve this problem most effectively. Religion offers us the channel of prayer, which is vital in the problem of living up to ideals. Another modern writer, Miss Harkness, Professor of Biology in Elmira College, says of prayer: "It is the process by which ideals are enabled to become operative in our lives. It does not impart ideas, but it clears the way to straight thinking. It will not enable one to pass examinations by giving knowledge to the lazy, but it will enable SOME LITERARY FRIENDS one to think clearly about the knowledge acquired. It will strengthen one's moral reserves under temptation. If prayer can thus clarify and motivate ideals, it does the most important thing that could be done." The question may arise, "How may we know whether ideals are right?" Gangsters often live up to their ideals. 'The author says the determining factor must be that that thing is nght which brings the most good to all people. Miss Harkness says, too, "In most issues, the principle of what is good for the majority, together with judgment of consequences, will make the way clear for moral living." She further says that all epochs in history in which faith prevails, whatever its form, are noble, soul-elevating and fruitful for the present and for after times; while all epochs in which unbelief wins an unhappy victory, vanish and are forgotten by posterity. I believe that the old-fashioned custom of repeating sentiments has a definite place in the teaching of ideals. Even though they are not always lived up to, they have their influence upon our behavior; for example, such sentiments as the following: "Strength of will is the test of a young 273 man's possibilities. It is the long, steady pull, the unconquerable purpose, the unbroken effort, that win the battle of life." ?Marsden. "A man should never be ashamed to own he has been wrong?which is but saying in other words that he is wiser today than he was yesterday.''?Pope. "Knowledge is the golden ladder by which we climb to Heaven."?-The Mother of Michael Pupin. "You are richer today than yesterday if you have laughed often."?Plato. "Each day we must exercise the mind as each day we must exercise the body." ?Plato. "If the world smiles not on you and me the fault is ours."?Mother of Martin Luther. "An injurious truth has no merit over an injurious lie. Neither should ever be uttered." ?Mark Twain. "Labor to keep alive in your breast that little spark of celestial fire, conscience." ? George Washington. "You cannot prevent the birds of sorrow from flying over your head, but you can prevent them from building nests in your hair." ?Chinese Proverb. "And spite of the fancies of youth, There's nothing so kingly as kindness And nothing so royal as truth." Quotations from The Teaching of Ideals, by W. W. Charters, used by permission of Macmillan Publishing Company. OUR HOME Althea Kimball I love our little home by these tall trees, The flowers near the door, the soothing brecze. And with our children happy playing here I could almost believe this Heaven dear. And then at night when cool darkness falls I like to feel the safety of these walls. You Know How Boys Are Olive W. Burt The beautifully-dressed, kind looking visitor paused for a moment beside Stevie's desk, and tenderness flooded her face in answer to the pleading in the little boy's eyes. The visitor turned to Teacher and spoke softly. Janet's heart stood still, absolutely still, fora moment. Then, as Janet had known she would, the visitor looked across the room at the little girl, said something more to Teacher, and walked slowly to the door. As she opened it, she looked back at Stevie's bright head and pleading eyes. Janet felt the sting of tears on her lids, and she wanted to lay her head on her geography book and cry. She didn't have to look at her brother to know how his swaggering shoulders had drooped, how his soft lips were twisted in an effort to keep from quivering. He knew, as well as Janet did, what had happened. But the lady had looked so kind, so understanding. Janet had almost hoped the little scene would have a different ending this time. Teacher came back into the room, and Janet noticed that even she looked sad. She spoke brightly enough, but as she passed Stevie her hand patted his shoulder ever so gently, and the lump in Janet's throat grew bigger still. She was afraid she couldn't get through the lesson, but she bent her eyes on the page and read with determination, "The Missouri River...." Outside the schoolroom where the primary-grade children of the Home sat studying, the sun was shining with the clear, bright splendor of April. Leaves were coming out on the trees, and birds were twittering here and there. Summer, Janet knew, was definitely on the way. It would be here before long?and there seemed no hope that she could get Stevie out of the Home before then. All last summer, when the little boy had been so restless, she had put him off with promises that winter was the best time to get a new home. And that they probably would be lucky around about Christmas. "Folks that don't have any kids get thinking about it at Christmas," she explained. "You wait and see. When they start getting ready for Christmas, they'll want some kids in their house, and that's when we'll get a real home of our own. Just wait and see!" And they had waited through the long, hot months, contenting themselves with the brief outings afforded by service clubs and the one exciting week at camp given by some wealthy benefactor to all the children in the Home. Then, as Christmas had drawn near, Janet had begun making plans, definite plans for their change to a home of their own. She had taught her brother all the little extra things she could think of, things that would make the folks happier and more satisfied with their bargain. For if once they got into a home, Janet meant that they should stay there, if any effort on her part could assure this. YOU KNOW HOW BOYS ARE But one by one the visitors had come, had chosen this child or that, and had left Janet and Stevie. So in the end they had gone, with the few others left in the Home, to a big tree in the dining hall. Some school children had brought them gifts and had sung carols for them, and Stevie had cried himself to sleep, while Janet had had no heart to comfort him. Janet didn't blame those nice people. Many of them had wanted Stevie, big as he was. Of course, they all wanted babies if they could get them, the smaller, the better. But when there were no more babies, they'd take children, the smallest first. But, even though Stevie was five and a big boy, they all wanted him. They would stop beside his desk, and he would raise his bright, curly head and smile, and they would turn to Teacher. Then Teacher had to tell them of Janet. Mummy had made them promise not to send one away without the other. She hadn't known what it would mean, she had just wanted to keep them together, always. So the visitors would be told of Janet, and they would look across at the homely ten-year-old and turn away?what was the fun of making Christmas for a child like that? Janet knew exactly how they felt because once, coming along the hall, she had heard one of them trying to get Miss Thomas, the superintendent, to let her have Stevie only. Janet had thought, after that, that she would tell Miss Thomas to let Stevie go?there was no use in keeping him from a good time just because no one wanted her. But she knew that the little boy would not 275 enjoy one minute of the holiday or one bite of the dinner without his sister. 'The thought of letting him go away from her permanently never entered her head. But now it was coming summer, and Stevie would be cooped up in the city again all through the long, hot days and the longer, hotter nights. She couldn't keep him happy with promises this year. She couldn't. JANET blinked the tears from her eyes as Teacher rapped for attention. It was Current Events class, and each child must read some item he had clipped from the newspapers reserved for that purpose. Janet rummaged through her desk until she found her clipping?an exciting item about the "Quints," whom she adored. She let her eyes rest upon the familiar text, which she had practically memorized for the class, and thought about Stevie and herself. It was funny about them. They looked a lot alike, both red-headed and freckled. Her hair was just a shade or two lighter than her brother's, just a shade or two?but that made all the difference. And her freckles.... Folks liked freckles on a little boy, but they hated them - ona girl. The tears came again, and to keep them back, Janet turned the clipping over and began to read the other side. Suddenly she was really reading it. It seemed to be a letter, for it began: "Dear Sunshine Lady. "I am coming to you with my problem because you have helped so many, many people. My little girl, three years old, flies into the most terrible tantrums every 276 time she cannot have her own way. Can vou tell me what to do with her?" There was some more about the little girl, and then, printed plain and clear was an answer. It was a sensible answer, Janet thought, but one she wouldn't have figured out for herself. It was given in a friendly tone, and Janet felt at once as if she knew this Sunshine Lady. She had never seen anything like this in the newspaper before, and she wondered whether anyone could write and get an answer from the Sunshine Lady.