MY FRIENDLY GARDEN Della Adams Leitner
My garden is a friendly place, And, oh, so neighborly; Folks stop to chat awhile and show Their comradship with me.
We love to talk about the flowers, And oftentimes we find Some other bonds of interest— A kindredship of mind.
Here in exchange of new ideas And better ways to do, Are seeds of happy friendships sown That bear their blossoms, too.
The understanding flowers respond To all the care I give, And so my garden shows me how The friendly life to live.
Out Of The Darkness Edith Smith Elliott Relief Society General Board Member
"Through faith I create the world I gaze upon, I make my own day and night, tint the clouds with iridescent fires, and behold! Midnight is strewn with stars."—Helen Keller.
When I was a little girl, my mother took me to hear and see Helen Keller. She appeared in the Assembly Hall on Temple Square, where her teacher and companion told us that Miss Keller was born down in Alabama, a perfectly normal child. When the baby was only nineteen months old, she was stricken with a severe illness which left her sightless and deaf, and because she could hear no speech or sound, she was unable to imitate either. The only way she could communicate with her family was through motions. She learned early to smack her lips when she wanted candy. When Helen was six and one-half years old, Anne Sullivan of Boston went to her home to see if she could help the child. A great affection grew up between them, and Miss Sullivan gained the little girl's confidence, which made the teaching and learning more simple. As the child could neither see, hear, nor speak, Miss Sullivan gave her a lovely doll and had her feel it carefully. Then in the language of the deaf, she spelled out "D-O-L-L" on Helen's hand. In this way she taught her the names of objects. After Miss Keller had mastered the sign language and had learned to read Braille, Miss Sullivan explained to Helen that she spoke with her lips and made sounds with her voice. Helen then wondered if she could learn to speak this way. So she placed her fingers on Miss Sullivan's lips and felt the vibrations of her nose and throat as she spoke, and by some miracle of interpretation learned to say "it." She was an apt student, so eager to learn, and as time went on, she managed to say a whole sentence. She ran to her parents and said, "I'm not dumb now!" Miss Keller has had a splendid education. She is a graduate of Radcliffe College and holds the degree, "Doctor of Philosophy." Alexander Graham Bell took a great interest in Miss Keller's achievements and set up a trust fund in her name so that she could continue her educational activities. When Miss Sullivan died, a new companion was found for Miss Keller. She is Miss Polly Thomson, a most gracious, charming, intelligent, Scotch-born lady. She is devoted to Miss Keller and is very proud of her accomplishments.
I don't know of anything that has impressed me more than the evening I spent at that Helen Keller lecture. All through my girlhood, when obstacles came my way, I said to myself, "If Helen Keller has been able to overcome so many handicaps, surely I can master this situation." This thought has given me both faith and courage. She has helped all mankind similarly, whether they have met her personally or just read or heard about this remarkable character. I have now been given added strength to face life's sorrows and feel more appreciatively life's joys, because I have had the privilege of meeting and visiting with Helen Keller. Mrs. Belle S. Spafford, our Relief Society Magazine editor, and I, went by appointment to call on Miss Keller and tell her about some of the interesting accomplishments and present activities of our National Woman's Relief Society. We were greeted with a warm welcome by both Miss Keller and her companion, Miss Thomson, and we spent a happy hour in pleasant conversation. I told Miss Keller how happy I was to meet her personally and of the lasting influence she had had on my life. She was pleased to hear this and laughed heartily when I told her that I had never forgotten the beautiful pink dress she wore that night years ago. She said, "I loved the dress, too. I chose it myself." We had another good laugh when I reminded her that following the lecture the audience had been invited to ask questions. A gentleman had asked if she could tell color. Her answer had been, "Well, I can tell when I feel blue or when I'm in the pink and when I have a greenback in my hand." I am sure that this precious sense of humor has been a big help to her as well as to those who have shared in her wit. Miss Keller was delighted with our Relief Society work, and paid high tribute to the Mormon women. She was thrilled and stirred by the courage and faith of the pioneer women who sacrificed so much to come to a desolate, barren valley and build new homes and rear families. She said, "If that faith and courage of the pioneer women can be carried on from generation to generation, it will be the force that will keep Utah young." She commented on the physical and mental strength of our first women settlers and hoped that these qualities would be lasting, so that succeeding generations will bear strong children capable of building a great America. She had an unusually fine background of Utah history and a wholesome admiration for the great pioneer leader, Brigham Young. We told Miss Keller of our Relief Society motto, "Charity Never Faileth," and she said, "Yes, if your charity is accompanied by love." She went on to explain that charity in our day has become hard and unfeeling—just a dole. She was delighted that the Relief Society had maintained the old, the real, and the simple meaning of charity. She thanked us for the beautiful and unusual bouquet of flowers that our organization sent to her on her arrival in Salt Lake City. Mary Grant Judd selected it, and chose flowers of unusual shape and texture, believing that they would appeal to Miss Keller's sense of touch. Miss Keller appreciated the thoughtfulness and sent the following letter of thanks to the Relief Society general office:
"The floral beauty with which you have in such a lavish manner emblazoned my visit to Salt Lake City makes me feel how far words lag behind gratitude of the heart. There are so many to thank for blossom-laden baskets, each of which has a touching association or a happy memory for me to carry away! I can only tell you that these singularly varied and exquisite tokens of your good-will not only towards me but also towards my blind fellows, remembered, will keep my courage strong for whatever tasks I may find to fulfill.
"Gratefully saluting you and Salt Lake City, which I am proud to count among the standard-bearers in the work for the blind, I am
"Cordially yours, (signed) Helen Keller."
Another gift that Miss Keller received with enthusiasm was the Book of Mormon in Braille, prepared in seven volumes, presented by President Heber J. Grant. She expressed sincere appreciation for this gift. Mrs. Spafford explained the purpose of our Mormon Handicraft project. Miss Keller was greatly interested and commented upon the value of this activity in preserving the arts and crafts of all nations represented in our Relief Society membership. She was glad to hear that a Shop was maintained to serve as an exchange for the handicraft of Mormon people.
We enjoyed her observations on national and international affairs. Her great hope was that the present war would not take women backward. She is proud of the accomplishments of women and reminisced on their activities in all fields of endeavor, particularly in suffrage. She admired the stamina of the British women during this trying time and plead for loyalty to our own Government.
Dr. Helen Keller came to Salt Lake at the request of several Utah societies interested in the blind. She lectured in the Salt Lake Tabernacle, March 12, 1941. An enthusiastic and appreciative audience greeted her. Part of the funds from her lecture are to be used to continue the employment of Miss Alice Vick, who is sightless, deaf and speechless, but who, under the expert and inspirational teaching of Irene Jones, has learned to read and write in Braille. Miss Vick is employed to transcribe from a master copy, current information as well as other types of reading material. This copy is sent from a center for the blind, located in California. The transcribed material is then made available to the local blind. Besides the financial help which this employment gives to Miss Vick, it also provides her the satisfaction of helping others who are deprived of their sight. A portion of the funds raised from Miss Keller's lecture will remain here for other projects for the blind and a specified percentage will go to the American Foundation for the Blind, Inc., in New York, under whose auspices she was obtained. Miss Keller refused any compensation for her part in the project, thus proving what a sincere philanthropist she really is.
I think one has to meet Helen Keller to really appreciate her many gifts. Each morning she begins her day by reading the Scriptures, in which she is well versed. When at home, she walks for a while in her garden, "Thus," as she expressed herself, "I begin the day with two communions"—one with her Heavenly Father and the other with nature. She believes that if people would read the Scriptures more often and do more walking in gardens, our world would be a happier place in which to live. She radiates love and affection. She is vivacious and has a deep sense of appreciation for everything. She accepts the challenges of life with gladness and sees in each one an opportunity for greater self-mastery. Her keen intellect and her quaint way of expressing her ideas made our interview something long to be remembered. Through contact with her, one experiences in himself a rebirth of faith, hope and courage.
HAPPENINGS Annie Wells Cannon
Behold! There is a rainbow in the sky, The Earth awakens from its lethargy.
Forty years ago this April, a group of choice women organized a society named The Daughters of Utah Pioneers. The objects: to perpetuate the memory of their courageous ancestors, the pioneers of Utah; to preserve landmarks; to gather and preserve historical and biographical records; and eventually to erect a fitting memorial, a symbolical shrine, a temple of art, which would serve the needs of the society. Today this last dream is on the threshold of fulfillment, for Governor Herbert B. Maw has signed a measure, passed by the state legislature, granting a choice piece of property for the site of such a memorial.
Natalie Wales Latham, socialite, opened a shop in New York to distribute yarn to women knitters for aid to Britain. Like magic, other centers opened, and within three months 600,000 garments were shipped, while hundreds of garments are still coming in for shipment.
Grace Moore, now a Metropolitan star, is being urged to return to pictures. Will her art yield to the golden lure?
Mrs. J. G. Falck of Ogden, Utah, for her outstanding patriotism, was presented recently with two testimonials by the United States Flag Association—"The Patriotic Service Cross" and a life membership in the association.
Mrs. Helen Johnson, world-famous traveler and hunter of big game, writer and lecturer, was recently married to Clark H. Getts, her business manager.
Angela Thirkell's latest novel, "Cheerfulness Breaks In," which the London Times calls "her latest confection," is another fair sample of the courage of the gifted English women who, through humor, are giving some brightness to the gloom of the hour. Jan Struthers is now in America discussing her famous heroine, "Mrs. Miniver."
Eve Curie, with other French citizens abroad, is likely to lose her nationality through a Vichy Government decree against citizens who are lecturing in America.
Queen Elizabeth is playing an heroic role during these war days in England. Smiling and sweetly feminine, she visits hospitals, barracks, police stations, and evacuees' billets, bestowing gifts and cheering words, especially upon children.
Ginger Rogers said, "This is the happiest moment of my life," as she received the Hollywood Academy Award for her outstanding work in moving pictures.
Pearl Buck's "Today and Forever," "No Stone Unturned," by Josephine Lawrence, "The Blue Cloak," by Temple Bailey, and "By Way of the Silverthorns," by Grace Livingston Hill, are some of the interesting new books by women.
 
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - Amy Brown Lyman


Vol. 28 APRIL, 1941 No. 4
EDITORIAL
Understanding Hearts
"I can tell you this, because you'll understand." These are words which we both hear and speak upon certain occasions. They are words which imply the capacity to comprehend, the ability to appreciate, and the capability to form reasoned judgments; they are words which infer a confidence in one's ability to see a situation in all its ramifications and to arrive at wise and just conclusions; they are words which indicate a faith in a sympathetic, understanding heart. How many of us really have "understanding hearts" when approached by a friend or neighbor? How many of us have a friend or neighbor with an "understanding heart" to whom we may unburden our souls in times of stress? The "understanding heart" is the great alleviator of vexation, worry and distress. Just to recite the trivial irritations of the day into a sympathetic ear will often clear away the annoyance and leave one undisturbed, while the more serious problems of life are almost insurmountable without the assistance that comes from an "understanding heart." Whether we be young or old, rich or poor, obscure or prominent, we have need for someone who understands?someone who sees not only what we do, but why we do it; someone who is acquainted with our motives as well as our conduct; someone who appreciates the obstacles we have encountered and who recognizes the struggle we have had; someone who fully comprehends all that is involved in our situation and consequently has a tolerant, sympathetic attitude toward us; someone who has compassion for our weaknesses and who recognizes our strengths and appreciates our achievements. Who does not value the "understanding heart"? Yet how much does any one of us really try to cultivate it within himself? We are complimented when people say, "You are so understanding." Yet we make little conscious effort to develop this desirable trait. We are not sensitive to all that another is up against; we fail to recognize all that is involved in his situation; we are too frequently biased, prejudiced or otherwise unfair; we do not take time to learn another's problems or to hear his story through. The greatest obstacle to understanding, however, is usually our own selfish interests and ambitions. Our vision is obscured by our own purposes, and we lose the larger view. The life of the Savior is a recital of perfect understanding. He understood the Samaritan woman and the woman taken in adultery; He understood Mary and Martha. In the selection of His apostles He evidenced perfect understanding, not only of the men and their capabilities, but of the needs of the people to whom they must minister. His final scene on the cross is the superb example of perfect understanding: "And when they were come to the place, which is called Calvary, there they crucified him and the malefactors, one on the right hand, and the other on the left. Then said Jesus, 'Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do.'" The Prophet Joseph was concerned lest Relief Society women should lack understanding, and through this lack lose fellowship with one another. He said: "It grieves me that there is no fuller fellowship;... By union of feeling, we obtain power with God." Union of feeling comes in no other way than through understanding. When time and experience have declared the worth of anything, why not exert ourselves to make it ours? While some people seem to be born with greater capacity to understand than are others, kinship of experience and conscious effort are twins which will open the doors of understanding to anyone. Experience comes with living, but effort is dependent upon ourselves alone. Why not put forth effort? Why not occasionally go behind the scenes and see what makes the play progress? Then we would better understand the actor's rendition of his lines. Why not endeavor to learn the problems which confront our fellowmen? Why not pause to lend a listening ear to a neighbor in distress? Why not seriously strive to gain an "understanding heart"? In Proverbs we are admonished: "With all thy getting, get understanding." Lack of understanding erects barriers and impedes progress; understanding generates love and furthers accomplishment. Of all organizations in the world, Relief Society should be an organization of "understanding hearts."
"Real indeed is human sympathy; the warm hand-clasp of confidence and love brings a rich inflow of new strength to him who is struggling, and the knowledge that someone dear to us sees with love and comradeship our future through our eyes is a wondrous draught of new life. If we have this, perhaps the loyalty of two or three, what the world says or thinks about us should count for little. But if this be denied us, then must we bravely walk our weary way alone, toward the sunrise that must come.
"The little world around us that does not understand us, does not appreciate our ambition or sympathize with our efforts, that seem to it futile, is not intentionally cruel, callous, bitter, blind, or heartless. It is merely that, busied with its own pursuits, problems, and pleasures, it does not fully realize, does not see as we do."
?From Great Truths, by William George Jordan.
Lula Greene Richards
April 8, 1941, marks the ninety-second birthday of Lula Greene Richards, first editor of the Woman's Exponent. The Relief Society General Board congratulates Mrs. Richards at this time. It congratulates her that her ninety-second birthday finds her in reasonably good health, able to actively serve the Lord in His Temple; that she enjoys exceptional mental vigor; that she retains and uses her literary gift. The following poem is one of Mrs. Richards' recent literary compositions:
AFTERWHILE (Acrostic) Lula Greene Richards
Loved one! While you were with me, day by day, Ere, summoned, you obedient bravely left, Venturing upon a new, untried, mysterious way, I had no thought of being thus bereft. Wisdom was yours to comfort, lead and guide; I walked and worked and worshiped at your side, Loving, beloved, trusting and unafraid, Learning high laws by which true lives are made. A contest entered like a stifling dream? Rigid and stern its bold attacks were laid; Death posed as victor?Love still reigns supreme. Realms of eternal light you now behold, Intelligence not yet with me to share; Celestial glories to your sight unfold; Help me to wait and patiently prepare. Angelic influence over me maintain, Rouse me from sloth, let error not beguile. Dearest, our troth?the prize?let us together gain; Sweet, pure, immortal, after a little while.
"Behold, blessed, saith the Lord, are they who have come up unto this land with an eye single to my glory, according to my commandments.
"For those who live shall inherit the earth, and those that die shall rest from all their labors, and their works shall follow them; and they shall receive a crown in the mansions of my Father, which I have prepared for them.
"Yea, blessed are they whose feet stand upon the land of Zion, who have obeyed my gospel; for they shall receive for their reward the good things of the earth, and it shall bring forth in its strength.
"And they shall also be crowned with blessings from above, yea.... They that are faithful and diligent before me."?Doctrine and Covenants 59:1-4
Notes to the Field
Misuse of Library Books
A disturbing report has recently reached the Relief Society General Board regarding the misuse of books and periodicals belonging to public libraries. It is reported that books are being defaced by pencil marks, that the corners of pages are sometimes turned down, and in some instances entire pages are being removed. Many of these pages contain valuable reference material. The proper care of books is important under all circumstances, but this is particularly true with regard to library books. Public library materials are provided for the benefit of the public. Books and periodicals are used many times by many people. Everyone is entitled to use them clean and undeleted. When a book is very soiled, torn, or when sections have been removed, it is not only unfit for use, but it must be replaced at the taxpayer's expense. The facilities of public libraries are invaluable to Relief Society women both in their homes and in their organization work. The excellent materials which they supply and the courtesy of librarians are sincerely appreciated. The General Board requests that Relief Society women everywhere cooperate in every possible way to correct the misuse and destruction of library materials. There is no finer way to express appreciation for the valuable service rendered by our public libraries than to see that great care is exercised in the use of the excellent materials which they provide.
Relief Society Magazine Referred to in Retail Journal
Mention of the Relief Society Magazine in publications other than our own is always of interest to us. In an article entitled, "Meet Forty Top-Notch Sales People," by O. Preston Robinson, published in the February, 1941, issue of the Journal of Retailing, a publication of the New York University School of Retailing, is the following paragraph:
"Unquestionably, many shoppers in retail stores have been forced to the conclusion that salesmanship is a form of pressure used by the salesperson to encourage them to buy merchandise they do not want. Any interested observer who listens may frequently hear such comments as, 'I do not like that clerk. He tries to use salesmanship on me,' or 'The salesperson made me feel so obligated that I felt I just had to buy.' Further evidence of the fact that shoppers have associated salesmanship with pressure comes from an article which appeared a short time ago in the official magazine of one of the oldest and largest women's organizations in America.' The article, entitled, 'The Psychology of Meeting Sales Pressure,' discussed some of the methods of salesmanship used in stores and pointed out how shoppers could meet and overcome the salesman's insistence.
"'The Relief Society Magazine, October, 1939. Published by the  , Utah."
This reference to The Magazine not only indicates that it is being widely read, but that its contents are reliable and of sufficient importance to be referred to in a periodical endeavoring to acquaint its readers with dependable up-to-date information. The General Board appreciates this recognition of The Magazine.