A Doctor Challenges Alcohol T. J. Howells, M. D. Health Commissioner, Salt Lake City, Utah, and Member of Utah State Board of Health
I am tired of making alibis for alcohol. I am sick of signing death certificates when the real villain behind the scene is whiskey. I make no apologies for alcohol. It is a drug, a poison. It has a definite place in medicine and in industry, but it was never intended to be used as a beverage. Some months ago, on the operating table in the Emergency hospital lay a young man. A police officer held an arm and kept the boy on the table. He was a fine-looking fellow in his early twenties, and a boy that any man would be proud to call "son." His girl companion was across the hall in the morgue. It was an automobile accident, and she was dead when the officers arrived upon the scene. The boy suffered from a rather large scalp wound, a few broken ribs and other minor injuries. It was evident from his actions that he was only partly conscious because of incoherent statements he was making and a rather low, muttering delirium that came from his lips. It took only a casual examination to reveal the fact that it was neither pain nor shock that caused this unconsciousness, but that it was the delirium of alcohol. Interesting is the fact that later in court witnesses testified that his girl companion did not drink. I am sick of caring for accidents, alleviating pain, patching people up, attending at the bedside of the dying, trying to comfort friends and relatives when the reason behind the tragedy is the drug and poison of alcohol. The law requires that after every death, violent or natural, a certificate must be made out by the attending physician. This important document is filed and often appears in court. It must give both the main cause of death and, wherever possible, name the contributing cause, also. During the last few years, I have signed several such death certificates where the car had failed to make the curve, the car ran into a truck, or the driver missed the bridge. They were all accidents contributing to the death of young people who were riding in automobiles. The death certificate read: "fractured skull," "internal injuries," or a "broken back," and the contributing cause of death read, and correctly so in each case, "automobile accident." And while it did not appear upon the record, yet each casualty was definitely traceable to the effects of the drug, alcohol. WE’VE done a good job in America with the drugs, morphine, codine, and heroin, and yet they were never as dangerous as alcohol. Today, you rarely see on the streets a drug habitue, and yet each morning's paper brings you the news of a disaster following some brain befuddled with alcohol while the toe rests upon the accelerator of a 95- horsepower automobile. It is sad that the young people 242 of America liave not yet learned in all of their study of chemistry that they cannot mix alcohol and gasoline. I am sorry they cannot see that the contributing cause in this great chapter of automobile accidents is too often "a couple of drinks." It is high time that we should strip this "killer" of its dangerous romance, its alluring garb, and pin the blame where it belongs, and show it up for what it is—a drug and a poison. It is an indictment against the American people that some of our smartest magazines carry advertisements of alluring and deceiving propaganda for this national "killer." I apologize to youth that artists paint deceiving pictures and that naturefakers and would-be athletes receive money for lying testimonials as to the value of this drug as a beverage. In the hospital room of the county jail recently, four young men, seventeen years of age, were confined and awaiting sentence for killing pedestrians while driving automobiles. Two of the young men admitted and showed evidence of drinking whiskey. There was some question about the third, and the fourth, beyond a doubt, was sober. I have felt that young men are RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL, 194) generally better drivers than the old, that there is quicker coordination between the muscles and brain of youth, than of age, and that, therefore, they are safer drivers. This poison, alcohol, slows the coordination of the brain and muscles; and the fact that four young men were at the mercy of the court awaiting judgment for having killed pedestrians is surely a challenge against this drug and the driving of youth. Because of the peculiar nervous mechanism and a certain instability, youth is more susceptible to the action and effects of whiskey. We have been slow to convict our drunken drivers, but now with the aid of the Drunkometer and the Laboratory's determination of the amount of alcohol in the blood, we are convicting more than go per cent of them. Part of the remaining 10 per cent are proved guilty by the disaster that follows in the wake of their wild rides. I can prove by hospital records, and without fear of contradiction, that 80 per cent of the fatal automobile accidents occurring in America are due to this drug circulating in the blood and brain of young people, too often indifferent, overprivileged and trying to show off. “THERE is nothing so hard and difficult as driving a racing automobile against time. On the Salt Flats in Utah, hour after hour, alone and locked in, I have endured this grueling test, the temperature in the car almost boiling, with mirage by day and flares by night to confuse and deceive me. Last summer I broke 84 world records under these conditions. I attribute my endurance to the fact that I have never tasted either tobacco or alcohol." (Signed) Ab Jenkins, (Racing Mayor of Salt Lake City, Utah.) Gardens and Gardening Luella N. Adams Relief Society General Board Member Thank God for a garden, be it ever so small; Thank God for the sunshine that comes flooding it all: Thank God for the flowers, for the rain and the dew; Thank God for the summer that brings me to you. BLESSED is the person who has an appreciation for all of earth's precious gifts. That person's life has thus been enriched and made happy. Heaven's gifts cannot be monopolized. Rich, poor, young and old can enjoy the sunshine and rain, flowers, birds and trees. Gardens are as old as the earth, and fortunate indeed is the person who has one, be it ever so small. We beautify the earth, make our homes and communities more attractive, and while doing this we receive physical, spiritual and cultural rewards. For real exhilaration of body and soul, get out at down when the dew is still on the flowers, when the birds are singing overhead and the air is laden with perfume, and enjoy the peace of the garden and close communion with nature. The gardener feels close to her Maker. She is dependent upon Him for the good earth, the rain and sunshine. To plant a seed and watch it grow into a lovely blossom is a miracle. Who can gaze upon an exquisite rose, smell its fragrant perfume, feel the touch of its velvety petal, and doubt that there is a Creator. A warden in a prison said, "The men who work in the gardens seldom, if ever, give trouble." Everyone loves a pleasant home surrounded with the beauty that can come only from flowers, shrubs and trees. The first step in making a new garden, or in remaking or adding to the one we have, is to do some real planning. Study the catalogues. Summer gardens are made in January. What is the purpose of our garden, and what will it include? The house, size of lot, and location will help to determine this. The small garden, well planned and well kept, is much more desirable than a large one carelessly laid out and neglected. Some gardeners have a notebook that they keep available at all times. Mistakes in gardening are jotted down, so that they will not be repeated. There may be a bare spot that must be planted for another summer, or some plants may be too tall or may clash in color with others. A noted English author says: "Some people say flowers never clash. I should like them to have heard what a certain geranium of my acquaintance said to a neighboring fuchsia last spring." The design of a garden is as important as the flowers and shrubs it contains. Keep it natural looking. Do not plant in straight rows unless the garden is formal. Inexperienced gardeners invariably crowd too much. Allowance for growth should be considered. It is never too LUELLA ADAMS ENJOYS HER GARDEN (Photograph, Courtesy Deseret News) late to rearrange where mistakes have been made. An expanse of well-kept lawn gives the impression of spaciousness. Neighboring surroundings are one of the important and often serious problems in beautifying homes. No matter how fine your garden and landscaping are, the effect may be ruined by old, unpainted buildings, broken-down fences, or unkempt, unsightly yards next door. Cooperation of all neighbors is essential in making a neat, attractive neighborhood. Now that there is: a state and chureh-wide movement for beautification, surely every home owner is "beautification conscious." IF possible, have at least one part of the garden private.. The family will enjoy an outdoor living room screened. From view where they can relax and eat a meal or entertain their friends. Provided there is space, every home should have trees. They lend atmosphere and dignity, provide shade, and furnish a background and a screen. Choose them very carefully, for they will stand as a monument long after the planter has passed on. Visualize your trees twenty years hence and make allowance for growth. Hardwood trees are preferable. 'They. Are longer lived, sturdier, and will not break so readily. Maples, hawthornes, locusts, European Linden, London Plane, Golden Chain and cut-leaved Weeping Birch are among the best. 'The boxelder, which is so common in Utah and Idaho, has served a fine purpose in the past.