Examined the envelope and found that, as she had thought, the stamp was almost new. There was a little black mark across it, but it wasn't all blotted and blurred like so many old stamps. She felt sure it would carry her letter to the newspaper office. Very, very carefully she prized the stamp from the envelope. 'Then, with a little dab of glue, she fastened it in the proper corner, addressed her letter to the Sunshine Lady of the Morning Star, and considered her next step. She felt she was right in keeping her letter a secret. Not that Teacher or Miss 'Thomas would scold _ her, but they might think she didn't like the Home; they might feel bad to think she wanted to leave them? and the whole staff adored Stevie and might not want to let him go. Then, too, nothing might come of it. Maybe the Sunshine Lady couldn't answer questions about orphans. But Janet thought she couldn't bear it not to try, now. She decided at last to slip the envelope in the pile of letters that always waited in the front hall for the 277 postman to pick up. It was the only way she could think of to get the letter into the postman's hands. If it were only summer, she thought, she could meet him in the yard. He often stopped to joke with the children when they were playing. But then, if it were summer, it would be too late. EARLY the next morning, Janet slipped stealthily into the front hall and placed her letter among those found there. 'Then she slipped along the corridor to the classroom and faced the difficult task of waiting for the next day's paper to come. Janet was ashamed that 'Teacher had to speak sharply to her several times that day. She just couldn't keep her thoughts on her lessons. She kept wondering what the Sunshine Lady would think when she opened the letter. She must be a beautiful woman, Janet thought, with hair like the sunshine and eyes like summer skies. 'Thoughts like these made her forget geography dates and places; made her forget to turn the page in reading class; made her forget how to spell the simplest words. As soon as study hour came, Janet rushed to the library and began to search through the columns of the Morning Star. 'There was the Sunshine Lady's corner, all right. But, though she had answered a number of queries, Janet's was not among them. Janet went back to her seat thinking, "Of course, not today. She maybe wouldn't get it till today. But tomorrow!" But tomorrow there was still no answer in the Sunshine Lady's column, nor was there the next day. 278 Then, just after study period was over, Connie, who answered the door and carried messages from the office to the teachers and helped dress the children, came into the room and spoke to Teacher, looking at Janet as she whispered. Suddenly Janet was afraid. She didn't know why. But the purloining of the envelope, the secretiveness of her actions, the worry of the past few days all lumped together in her mind to form a spectre of disaster. Teacher spoke softly: "Janet, you are wanted in the office!" The office! That was terrible! Only very, very naughty children were sent to the office?or those who were being called for by some relative or someone who wanted to see about adopting them. Janet knew it wasn't either of the last two.... She followed Connie down the long hall, slowly, taking each step deliberately. Her throat was throbbing. Well, if Miss Thomas had seen the letter, if anything had happened, she would take the consequences. She had only been trying to find out what to do for the sake of Stevie. Boys were different.... Connie knocked on the door, and when Miss Thomas said, "Come in," she opened it and pushed Janet into the room. Janet looked at Miss Thomas and thought, "She doesn't look cross. She looks especially kind." "Janet," said the superintendent, "here is a gentleman to see you. He is Mr. Knowlton of the post-office department." Janet turned toward the man, a quiet, elderly person in a gray suit. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1941

 He held her letter and its envelope in his hand. "Come here, Janet," he said kindly. She stepped closer to him. "Did you write this letter?" he asked, holding out the folded, bulky pages. Janet nodded, wondering. "Yes, sir," her lips formed the words mechanically. "And did you put it in this envelope and put this stamp on it?" and he held out the envelope: with the stamp neatly pasted in the corner. Again Janet nodded. She knew she should answer as she had been taught, but her voice wouldn't come at all. It was the stamp, then. Stealing from the wastebasket was as bad as stealing from a purse.... "Where did you get the stamp?" the man went on. Janet made her eyes look straight into the gray ones.? "From Teacher's wastebasket." Mr. Knowlton smiled suddenly, reassuringly. "Don't be afraid, Janet," he said. "T am not going to hurt you. I am just trying to find out about the stamp. Did you know it had been used before?" "Yes, sir. That is why I took it. I wouldn't have taken a new stamp. Miss Thomas knows I wouldn't. But Teacher threw this into the wastebasket, and I needed a stamp so bad eatIt was just as good as new, though," she added, hoping he would understand. The man put his arm about her and drew her closer. "Didn't you know that you must YOU KNOW HOW BOYS ARE never use an old stamp on a letter?" he asked. Janet shook her head. "It was just like new," she repeated. "But that isn't the point," the man said graciously. "Do you know why you put stamps on letters?" Janet shook her head. Mr. Knowlton looked up at Miss Thomas, his eyes asking a question. The superintendent said, "I don't suppose the child does. She is only ten, and she has had, unfortunately, few reasons to write letters. I imagine that we have stamped the one or two thank-you notes she has sent to benefactors, and we have never thought to explain it to her." Mr. Knowlton nodded. "TI see," he said. Then he turned to Janet again. "It's this way, Janet," he explained, "Our Government, Uncle Sam as we call it sometimes, delivers all the letters that go from place to place in the United States. The Government carries them, protects them, delivers them. A long time ago, private men did this work and charged what they thought it was worth?sometimes two or three dollars for one letter. But the Government found that it could do the job for just a few cents a letter, and this would save everyone money and make it easier and safer to write to each other." Janet was listening with her whole mind. The man's voice was so low and quiet that she felt almost as if she were reading some pleasant book. "Now in order to collect this money," Mr. Knowlton went on, "Uncle Sam has each person who mails a letter buy a stamp. He gets the money, and this pays him for his work. But if a person uses the same 279 stamp twice, you can see that Uncle Sam doesn't get paid for delivering the second letter. He is cheated out of the few pennies he charges." Janet's lip quivered. "I know you didn't mean to cheat Uncle Sam," Mr. Knowlton added quickly. "It was just a mistake, and Pll explain it to him?so everything will be all right. Now do you want to put a new stamp on the letter and have us deliver it for you?" Janet shook her head sorrowfully. "I haven't a new stamp," she said. Miss Thomas opened a drawer and took out a stamp. "Here is one, Janet," she said. "I would gladly have given you a stamp had you asked me for one. Don't you know that?" "Yes, Miss 'Thomas,' answered Janet. Then, "But I...." She hated to say, "I didn't want you to see the letter." She hoped the superintendent wouldn't ask to see it. And she didn't. She handed the stamp to Janet. Mr. Knowlton removed the old stamp, and Janet put the new one in its place. "Shall I drop the letter into the mail box for you?" he asked kindly. Janet looked toward Miss Thomas. She had rather lost interest in the letter. Maybe it wasn't such a good idea after all. But Miss Thomas nodded her head. "If it is important, that would be the quickest way to send it," she said. So Janet nodded, dumbly, to Mr. Knowlton. She wondered whether Miss Thomas knew what was in the letter. Maybe she had read it before Janet came in. Well.... "You may go to your class, now, Janet. And you won't forget what Mr. Knowlton has told you, will you?" 280 Janet shook her head. Her tongue seemed thick and dry in her mouth, so words wouldn't come out. She walked slowly out of the room and down the hall. THAT afternoon at play period she did not feel like running and playing with the rest of the children. She was worried. She didn't know why. She sat over in one corner of the playground, close to the fence, and let the warm spring sunshine beat down upon her. Maybe, maybe it was all right. Stevie came up to his sister. "Wassa matter, Janet?" he asked. "Come and play Green Light with uss Janet shook her head. "Tm thinking, Stevie," she explained. "Thinking" had always been a good excuse for sitting still and not playing. "You go play. I?ll watch." She crouched back under the lilac bush. 'The little leaves were just beginning to show at the tips of the brown buds. She loved the lilac tree at any time of the year, but right now she thought it was, perhaps, loveliest of all, with the slender brown branches knobbed with the green-tipped buds. "Hello, there!" A jolly voice roused her, and she looked up, startled. Over the fence was leaning a freckled-faced, smiling young man. "Can you show me which one of the kids is Janet?" he asked amiably. Janet waited, very still. She wondered whether she ought to own up who she was. What would the superintendent think? There had been too much excitement for one day. But as she watched the young 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1941

 man, she saw a strange light come into his laughing eyes, and she knew he recognized her. Janet had no idea how he had guessed. "So you're the young lady' herself!" he cried gaily. "Well, if this isn't a bit of luck! And you're sitting here all by yourself?" He vaulted over the fence and sat down by her. "Why aren't you playing with the other kids?" "T was thinking," whispered Janet. "Thinking about that swell home you're going to get?" So it was her letter again. "You know, that is just what I was thinking about, too," the pleasant voice went on. "You?" Janet's lips formed the word incredulously. "How did you know?" "Very simply," he answered. "You see, I know Mr. Knowlton. And I know the Sunshine Lady. In fact, I work for the same paper she does. My desk is just across the room from hers. Well, I was in Mr. Knowlton's office this morning when he came back from seeing you. He told me about you and the... Er... Stamp." Janet wondered what he thought of her, and dropped her eyes so that she couldn't read the answer in his own. But he laughed gaily. "That's a mistake we all make when we start writing letters," he said. "I remember the first time I wrote to Santa Claus. I did exactly the same thing. But they were expecting it at Christmas time, so they didn't even bother to check up on it. You just surprised them a bit, your letter coming along in the spring like this. I suppose though," he added seriously, "they were pretty certain YOU KNOW HOW BOYS ARE it was just a mistake, right from the first. But they have to check up, to be sure." Janet felt better and looked up at the young man again. He went on, "When I got back to the office, I asked the Sunshine Lady if she had your letter. It came in with the one o'clock mail, and she showed it tome. She is going to answer it tomorrow morning, but she thought it would be a mighy good plan to have a picture of you to go along with the letter, so folks would kind of feel acquainted with you, you know." Janet drew back and flung her arm up over her freckled face. "Not me!" she cried, "not a picture of me! 'That would spoil the whole thing. But Stevie... If you had a picture of him!" The young man considered. "I see your point," he agreed. "Folks do like little boys, don't they? But some folks like little girls better still. Say, how would it be if I took both of you together?" Janet shook her head. "Not me. I don't want my picture taken." "Gosh, this is going to be tough on me. What shall I tell the Sunshine Lady when I get back? She is going to be mighty disappointed." Janet thought a minute. "Does the Sunshine Lady want it very bad?" she asked. "Does she? Why, she has set her heart upon it. In fact, I think she has already written her story for the paper, and she'll have to do it all over again if she doesn't have that picture." Janet asked timidly, "Is the Sunshine Lady nice?" 281 "Oh, definitely!" smiled the young man. "She looks just like her name." "Well, then...." sighed Janet. "Well, then...." "Ts Stevie handy?" asked the young man, not waiting for Janet to say more. "Stevie!"