However, in GARDENS AND GARDENING most sections it has. Outlived its usefulness. It is unshapely, sends out out-shoots, drops many seeds and harbors boxelder bugs. 'The pollen of the boxelder also causes hay-fever, a serious affliction in this region. Mr. Rufus Johnson, Salt Lake City tree warden, says that boxelders cause much trouble among _ neighbors when planted along boundary lines and ditches, because they grow out of bounds and trespass on the neighbor's premises. Evergreens are indispensable in a well-planned garden. They are ideal for foundation planting, because they remain green all winter and do not grow out of bounds. Junipers and arborvitae are splendid where tall planting is required, at entrances to doors or by windows. Pfitzers and Sabina Junipers never grow tall, but spread over quite an area and are desirable for low planting under windows, by steps, etc. Coniferous evergreens, spruces, firs, and pines, grow very large in time, and are best used along borders and back in the lot where they have ample room to grow. There are a few broad-leafed evergreens that thrive in our locality and which add to any landscaping, such as Pyracantha, which has red berries in the fall and winter, Oregon Grape, Catoneaster, and Barberry. Evergreens should be planted very early in the spring while it is still cool. By all means plant evergreens. They cost more than deciduous trees, but their beauty all during the year justifies the additional expense. However, it is not necessary to plant them all the first year. Get a pair for the entrance to your yard or arrange for a grouping and add others as you. Can. 245 Flowering trees—cherry, peach, crab, and Paul's Scarlet Hawthorne —that have now been so perfected and improved, enhance any garden. Vines, such as grape, Hall's Honeysuckle, Boston Ivy, and the Silver Lace Vine, are indispensable for covering fences, walls, old buildings, or trellises. Shrubs are so important in our landscaping that no garden is complete without them. Once planted, they are a joy forever. 'The hardy lilac lasts for generations, requires no special soil and is a faithful, bloomer. Lilac planting for a community project would do much toward beautifying our towns. Plant the improved French Lilacs. Bridal Wreath is another favorite. Syringa, Philadelphus Virginalis (mock. Orange), a pure-white double, is a heavenly thing in June. Its blossoms are so fragrant that a single spray will perfume a room. We should never forget shrubs and trees that bear berries for the birds, such as the Rus-. Sian Mulberry and 'Tartarian Honeysuckle. Every yard should have roses, if only a few. 'The fewer grown, the. More choice they should be. Nothing can take the place of these aristocrats. Many of the old standard roses are fine and inexpensive. However, new improved ones are appeating on the market every year. At first, the new ones are quite costly. It is a splendid custom for friends to exchange slips. There is sentiment attached to a rose that one has raised from a tiny slip given him by a dear friend. Some of the new favorites are the Doctor, Eternal Youth, Dainty Bess, Dickson's Red, Rex Anderson, Eclipse, Will Rogers 246 and Matador. Ever-blooming Floribunda roses are very popular. They are prolific bloomers, making a mass of color all summer. These should be planted in groups, among shrubs or along borders. World's Fair, Permanent Wave and Anne Poulsen climbing roses are splendid when planted in the right place. HE garden that is well planned will have a maximum of blooming flowers all summer. Thought is required to keep continuous blooms, especially during the hot months. Real garden enthusiasts are those who look ahead, who work and plan. They don't get discouraged when the weeds begin to grow and the days get hot. Annuals assure continuous blooms throughout the summer. Don't fail to invest in a few packages of seeds." Gladiola bulbs planted at different times and blooming at intervals of a few weeks are desirable. Perennials are invaluable in any garden. The following faithfully present their blooms in the spring time year after year: the crocus, primrose, forget-me-not, bleeding heart, mertensia (the old-fashioned bluebell), and pansies, which are being improved every year. All that pansies require is loamy soil, plenty of water, and frequent picking. Spring time is tulip time, and what beautiful effects are possible if bulbs are planted with care! Groupings in front of shrubs, by steps, or long drifts along foundations are preferred. Tulip bulbs can be put in various places throughout the garden to brighten it. 1.See "From Seed-Packets to Blossoming Flowers," by Hazel D. Moyle, Relief Society Magazine, April, 1940, p. 217.  Be careful to combine the right colors, using those that complement each other. Flowers that will thrive in the shade are always in demand. Some of these are phlox, lily of the valley, columbine, which has an attractive foliage all summer, and Sweet Woodruff, a white, delicately-scented flower, that will do well under trees. By all means include iris—Siberian, Japanese, and German. German Iris is a hardy, dependable, beautiful flower that cannot be overrated. Resolve to add a new iris each year. The tuberous-rooted begonia is a shade-loving flower that is becoming very popular. The delicate, waxy blooms come in various shades. The bulbs are started inside in pots, then transplanted after all danger of frost is past. These must have absolute shade. Pots may be sunk in the ground. We would all do well to grow more white flowers. They give the impression of size, blend well with other plants, and look cool and refreshing. Some beautiful white flowers are: snapdragons, candytuft, phlox, Madonna Lilies, petunias and alyssum. The Japanese Anemone brings the spirit of spring in September. It likes morning sun and does well in loamy soil and well-rotted manure. Anemone roots spread and will soon furnish many plants. 'These flowers come in pink, lavender and pure white and, growing on long, strong stems, they are splendid for cut flowers. Don't fail to plant them. Chrysanthemums are another favorite of autumn. Great strides are being made in their development, so keep up to date. GARAGE 7 GARAGE Ca; Identical lots and houses are shown above, but that on the left is planted with no plan nor forethought, while that on the right shows all the material in the other garden arranged for beauty, use and charm. The legend for both sketches is: A—trellis, C—chair, E—evergreen, F—flowers, P—pool, R—roses, RG—rock garden, S—shrubs, ST—shade tree, V—vegetable garden, T—table, W—walk. (Sketch, Courtesy Maud Chegwidden and Salt Lake Tribune.) THE rock garden will be a great addition to any garden if built and planted correctly. Follow the dictates of nature-be natural. The rocks must be practically covered with soil. Too often they have the appearance of just a pile of rocks. Sabina Juniper, Mugho Pine, and the prostrate growing shrubs which are hardy and graceful are appropriate for rock gardens. Purple Aubrietia Alyssum, columbine, violas, for-get-me-nots, tulips, and numerous other plants are suitable. The lily pool affords a point of interest. If you cannot afford a large one, just sink a tub in the earth. plant your lilies and add a few gold fish for interest. Water-lilies thrive best in rather murky water. By all means make room for an herb garden. They are valuable for their sweet smells, savory odors, and appearance of just a pile of rocks. As seasoning for food. Parsley, mint, chives, sage or horse-radish, growing close to the kitchen door, are most useful. Lavender has a purple flower is used in making sachet. Lemon Verbena, Bergamot, and Spicy Pink get-me-nots, tulips, and numerous are old favorites. Fortunate is the family that has access to a vegetable garden. Vegetables taste when they are fresh.
If you live in a hot, dry locality, have a cacti garden. They are beautiful and very interesting. There are over five hundred known varieties of cacti. Yes, everyone should have a garden. Make the most of your surroundings and conditions. There are lovely shrubs and plants suited to every locality. Plant what will thrive; get the joy and satisfaction that comes from growing things. Make gardening your hobby. Surprises and satisfaction will await you every day. The seed you planted may have sent a tiny shoot toward the sunlight or a bud may have burst into bloom. Your garden will always be a peaceful retreat.