America's First Easter: She Greatest Story Every Told Isaac B. Ball A Patriarch of Oakland Stake When Easter returns each year, we very properly meditate anew the incidents connected with the Lord's resurrection as they appear in the four Gospels. But Latterday Saints have in their possession a fifth Gospel within the Book of Mormon—III Nephi. Here we find recorded the events connected with the Savior's post-resurrection visit to the "other sheep" who were also to hear His voice. Of this ministry, Jesus himself declared to the Nephites, "So great faith have I never seen among all the Jews; wherefore I could not show unto them so great miracles, because of their unbelief." (Book of Mormon, III Nephi, 19:35.) It is well to have this story retold in brief form. Often, but Latter-day Saints, we trust, will turn to the fuller account in III Nephi as to a well of sweet, fresh water which endlessly refreshes the soul.
The Pilgrims' first Easter may or may not have made a great story, I do not know. I am not thinking of that American Easter observance, I am thinking of one of the greatest heart-throb stories ever written. It is a simple narrative in the Book of Mormon depicting the three-day ministry of the resurrected Christ among the Nephites—their delayed but most exquisite Easter. No other story could, I think, with equal potency feast the soul, purify the heart, enrich the mind, and fire the will for finer living. The world needs that story retold today and often. As a prelude to the Nephite story, let us first briefly sketch the Palestinian Easter. The darker the night, the brighter the dawn. In Palestine, the first Easter dawned after three gloomy*
*This article deals with the appearance of Christ to the Nephites. While technically, perhaps, this was not an Easter occasion, since it did not occur until after Jesus' ascension following His forty-day post-resurrection ministry in Palestine, still to the Nephites it was His first appearance after His resurrection; hence, the first American Easter.
days of disillusionment among the followers of Christ. Hear them wail, "We trusted it had been He which should have redeemed Israel." Instead, He lay silent in the tomb. True, He had told His disciples He would arise the third day, but this they could not comprehend. While they were thus beset with fears, the devastated Mary, seeking in vain for the torn body of her Lord, heard the words: "Woman why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou?" And then that one softly spoken word, "Mary." And Mary recognized her Lord; and throwing herself at His feet, she cried: "My beloved Master!" Each of the appearances of the resurrected Lord must have brought unbounded joy—that sudden appearance among the apostles secretly gathered behind closely guarded doors in Jerusalem; the unexpected presence on the shores of Galilee early one morning. Finally, with gladness we listen to Paul: "Brethren, I declare unto you... That he was buried, and that He rose again the third day... And that He was seen of Cephas, and then of the twelve. After that he was seen of about five hundred brethren at once; of whom the greater part remain unto this present.... After that He was seen of James; then of the apostles. And last of all He was seen of me also, as of one born out of due time." (I Corinthians 15:1-8.)
AMERICA'S FIRST EASTER
In the land of the Nephites, the first Easter dawned likewise after a sad and gloomy period. The three days in which the Savior lay in the rock tomb were days on this hemisphere of the direst destruction ever to come upon mankind. The sad and chastened people who were spared wept for the hosts of their dead for more than six long weeks amidst the ruins of their cities before their Easter came. Then one day, for some reason, the multitude had gathered about the temple, in the land Bountiful. Perhaps that temple was thronged day after day with awed worshipers, for were these people not a righteous remnant of the House of Israel? No doubt they were looking forward to the coming of the Lord in the very near future, for so it had been predicted, according to their records, six hundred years before, by the first Nephi who also had foretold the very destructions which now had overwhelmed their people. A great multitude were gathered together round about the temple on that particular day, and they were marveling and wondering one with another and were showing one another the great changes which had taken place. As they were conversing, a voice from heaven sounded in the ears of all that host! It was not a harsh voice, but a small voice with a peculiar quality which penetrated the listeners to the center, causing them to quake, piercing them to their very souls, and causing their hearts to burn. Not until they had heard it for the third time did they understand what the voice was saying: "Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I have glorified my name—hear ye Him." Simultaneously, the figure of a man was seen coming down from heaven. Gently he descended and stood in the midst of them, while all gazed silently and transfixed, thinking yet that it was an angel. Not long had they to wonder. He stretched forth His hand and began to speak the most significant words ever spoken upon this continent: "Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified should come into the world. And behold, I am the light and the life of the world." And the astonished people fell to the earth in worship, for they remembered that it had been prophesied that Christ should show Himself unto them. The Savior then designed to give them irrefutable proof that he was Jesus, the Christ, who had been slain for the sins of the world. He bade them arise and come forth and thrust their hands into His side and feel the prints of the nails in His hands and feet. One by one they filed along, two thousand five hundred souls, until each had had the opportunity of thrusting his hand into the torn rent in the Savior's side and of feeling the prints of the nails by which He had been held to the cross. The entire multitude gave united expression to their surging emotions. With one accord, they cried out: "Hosanna! Blessed be the name of the Most High God!" And they fell down at the feet of Jesus in adoration and worshiped Him. Then Jesus repeated for them the greatest sermon ever delivered on earth—that which is commonly known as the "Sermon on the Mount." Having finished this discourse, probably hours in length, Jesus informed the people that He must now go to the other lost tribes of Israel. The people, however, were loath to have Him leave them, and stood looking toward Him in tearful silence which pleaded eloquently that He tarry longer with them. Immediately responsive to this appeal, Jesus called upon them to bring all who were in any way sick or afflicted—the lame, the blind, the halt, the maimed, the leprous, the withered, the deaf—and He healed them every one. Again, all the people, the healed and the whole, bowed down and worshiped Him and kissed His feet, insomuch that they bathed His feet with their tears.
After having healed all their sick, blind, and lame, Jesus called for their little children to be brought and set in a circle before Him. The story of His blessing these little children is perhaps one of the most touching and yet exalting in all literature, either sacred or profane. Standing in the center of the children, Jesus commanded the multitude to kneel upon the ground, and He also knelt upon the earth. Then He prayed to the Father. The things which He prayed to the Father the world will never read, because they could not be written. It must be content with the simple Book of Mormon report of the scene: "No tongue can speak, neither can there be written by any man, neither can the hearts of men conceive so great and marvelous things as we both saw and heard Jesus speak; and no one can conceive of the joy which filled our souls at the time we heard Him pray for us unto the Father." So great was the joy of the people, it consumed their strength, and they were overcome. But they arose again at Jesus' request, and He blessed them because of their faith, adding, "And now behold, my joy is full." When He had said these words, He wept. And He took their little children one by one and blessed them, praying unto the Father in their behalf. Then Jesus was again so moved that He wept the second time, and He called upon the parents to look at their little ones. As they looked, their eyes were attracted toward the heavens which seemed to be opening, and they saw angels descending out of heaven as it were in the midst of fire; and the angels came down and encircled the little ones and administered cheer and comfort to them, while the fire seemed to surround them. Later Jesus administered the sacrament unto the multitude and conferred authority to baptize upon His chosen Twelve. Then a cloud came and overshadowed the multitude, and Jesus departed from their sight.
On the succeeding day, a great multitude gathered together—so great it was in fact that it had to be divided into twelve groups. And the people were instructed and received the ordinance of baptism at the hands of the ordained Apostles. Like another Pentecost, the Holy Ghost fell upon the baptized saints. Fire from heaven encircled them, while angels came down and administered unto them. As a glorious consummation, Jesus came again and stood in the midst of them and ministered unto them. Then He commanded them to kneel upon the ground. While all were thus kneeling, Jesus commanded His disciples to pray, and He went a little way off and bowed Himself to the earth, praying: "Father, I thank thee that thou hast given the Holy Ghost unto these whom I have chosen... Because of their belief in me.... Father I pray that thou wilt give the Holy Ghost unto all them that shall believe in their words... That they may believe in me, that I may be in them as thou, Father, art in me, that we may be one." When Jesus had prayed in this sublime manner, He came and looked upon His disciples as they continued to pray to Him, and He blessed them and smiled upon them. The light of His countenance shone upon them until they were as white as His countenance and His garments—a whiteness exceeding all the whiteness ever seen upon the earth by the eyes of mortals. Bidding them pray on, the second time he went a little way off, and bowing, He prayed: "Father I thank thee that thou hast purified those whom I have chosen, because of their faith, and I pray for them, and also for them who shall believe on their words, that they may be purified in me, that I may be in them as thou, Father, art in me, that we may be one, that I may be glorified in them." Then Jesus came once again to the praying disciples and smiled upon them. They were still as white even as Jesus Himself—radiantly white. Again, the third time, Jesus withdrew a little distance and bowed in prayer to the Father, and "tongue cannot speak the words which He prayed, neither can be written by man the words which He prayed." But the multitude heard, and their hearts were opened, and they understood in their hearts the things which He prayed. The Lord continued with the people for three days, teaching them, expounding all things unto them, both great and small.
If we compare this period of divine manifestations in Nephite lands with similar events among the Jews, we notice at once a fitting harmony of teachings and spiritual demonstrations. Was it not the same Christ who ministered to the two segments of the House of Israel, and was it not the same Gospel message which He delivered? It is true that greater miracles were performed among the Nephites than among the Jews because, according to the Savior's own explanation, of their greater faith. The excellence of the Nephite record also gives us many important details. What a privileged people were these Nephites! According to recorded history, never before or since has a heavenly being thus mingled so freely and openly with an entire population. Two thousand five hundred people were present the first day, and the number increased day by day as word spread abroad. How many happy hours this multitude must have spent in the very presence of Jesus! Consider the marvelous things shown unto this great host, things of such surpassing glory and magnitude that no words of mortal man could express them. Consider the loving tenderness of Christ and His angels as they ministered to the little children; how He blessed them and prayed for them until He himself was so filled with ecstasy that He wept for joy—not once only, but twice. Finally, consider those transcendent words when He prayed to the Father for His disciples—for all the people and their children. Impressive beyond compare were His pleadings that His humble followers might be one in Him even as He is one in the Father. These words we read, and we feel their power to work changes in our own hearts. But what must have been the exquisite joy of the people when they heard His prayers, so exalted that no mortal heart could have conceived them and no mortal could have phrased them! O Father, may those prayers of the white-countenanced Christ on that first American Easter be answered this Eastertide and forever. May tens of thousands of Latter-day Saints live and labor in the sublime oneness with Jesus, even as He lives and works for us in perfect oneness with His Holy Father.