Notes from the Field" appear in the Magazine for April, 1940, page 275.
Special Membership Activities
Gridley Stake (Yuba City, California)
Ruthe B. Samson, president of Gridley Stake Relief Society, submitted the accompanying picture of an oil painting by Phebe Carlin, member of the Relief Society stake board, which portrays the stake's membership peach tree. Each limb of the tree represents a ward or branch, and each peach a member of Relief Society. The artist adds a new peach to the picture as new members are enrolled. This painting, which measures about four feet by five feet, is displayed at union meetings. The painting is representative of the area in which Gridley Stake is located. In the background are the Sutter Buttes, a geographical freak in the Sacramento Valley, said to be the shortest range of mountains in the world. The Gridley Stake, which is composed of a Church population scattered through five counties, contributes to the Church welfare program by operating peach-canning centers.
Chicago Stake (Chicago, Illinois)
The University Ward demonstrates, by means of the clever exhibit shown in the accompanying picture, the efforts to reach, by 1942, the membership goal of 100,000 members. The ladders, by means of which members of the Society climb toward higher objectives of growth and service and attract the enrollment of additional members, are social welfare, homemaking, visiting teaching, literature, theology and social activities. Up these ladders of endeavor, toy figures strive to carry aloft the actual numerals which will change to reality the shadowy potential membership of 100,000. Lois E. Astin is president of Relief Society in Chicago Stake, and Emma Johnson is president of the Society in the University Ward.
Carbon Stake (Price, Utah)
The Carbon Stake Relief Society, of which Belle Johnson is president, held a reception and inspirational pageant, January 24, 1941, marking the close of a year of successful activity in the interest of increased membership with a 10 per cent gain during the year 1940, and a total increase of 60 per cent over the enrollment as of December 31, 1937. Following are excerpts from Mrs. Johnson's letter:
"We feel well satisfied with this report because we find more interest generally and a higher type of activity all over the stake, which we feel is due to closer contact during the drive and fresh ideas and talents of new members combined with the staunch faith and untiring efforts of old members. We closed our drive with a reception held January 24. The pageant was very inspirational and was followed by refreshments. The stake presidency met with us and they were well satisfied with our efforts.
"Our theme for this year's work was taken from the 'Save the Wealth Plan' used by the General Board at the general Relief Society conference in April, 1940. We closed with a pageant based on the theme of 'Onward and Upward Toward 1942.' There were a number of skits this year sent in by ward members which we will recognize in our union meetings."
Enclosed with the letter was the full text of the pageant, and of the winning themes and skits submitted by the various wards. Also enclosed were outlines of material presented at the monthly union meetings in the membership workers' department, giving indication of the enthusiasm and thoroughness with which this stake has planned its enlistment work and followed up its initial efforts.
These outlines are outstanding for their comprehensive approach to the assignment of building membership and for their recognition of the value of cooperation, not only of membership workers and officers, but of every enrolled member of the Society. The plans also emphasize means of stimulating the attendance of enrolled members, furthering acquaintanceship, and the importance of friendliness and sociability. In fact, the officers attribute much success to so simple an expedient as general adoption of the parting greeting, "See you next Tuesday." The various wards of the stake have shown considerable ingenuity in their development of local programs for enlisting the interest of prospective members and stimulating attendance at Relief Society meetings.
Yellowstone Stake (St. Anthony, Idaho)
The first outstanding event of the 1940-41 Relief Society season in Yellowstone Stake, where Ellen J. Murray is stake president of Relief Society, was a stake membership party held on the banks of the river. The program, which was entirely original, included songs and poems composed by members. Four prizes were awarded, as follows: a one-year subscription to the Relief Society Magazine to the member who had traveled the greatest distance (35 miles) to attend the party; a one-year subscription to the Relief Society Magazine to the mother with the most daughters present who were enrolled members of Relief Society; a one-year subscription to the oldest member present; and one of the literature course books to the ward with the most prospective members in attendance. Membership parties were also held in wards on the first Tuesday in October, where the coming year's work was presented through the medium of original skits. An original pageant, "What Membership in the Relief Society Means to Us," written by Ada B. Christenson, was presented as a feature of the Relief Society conference held in each ward of the stake. An interesting achievement of the Yellowstone Stake Relief Society during the past year was the float entered in the Pioneer Day parade, July 24, commemorating "Fifty Years of Statehood" for Idaho, which won first prize.
A MOTHER'S PRAYER Ida R. Alldredge
Dear children of ours, I wish I could tell you The joy that we feel when success comes your way, The thrill that it brings when good fortune befalls you, The depth of our feelings on this Mother's Day.
We know that your problems are varied and many And sometimes the goal that you seek seems too high, But still we have faith that you'll keep right on climbing, The heights you'll attain in the sweet by-and-by.
Dear children of ours, our sons and our daughters, How oft we would shield you from evil foreseen Or lend you the vision matured through experience, But still you must tread where our footsteps have been.
Perhaps in God's infinite wisdom and mercy He sends you forth into the thick of the fray When we, with less vision, would fear for your safety And cramp your activities day after day.
If you will remember that through your attainments We live and rejoice, but when you slip we fail, You'll double your efforts and plant your feet firmly And keep right on climbing life's venturesome trail.
God grant that you'll reap where the harvest is heavy And cast from your life all the tares in your way, That you may live richer and better than we have, Is the wish of your mothers on this "Mother's Day."
Make-Believe Mother or Mother For A Day Vaunee T. Larson
The school bell shrilly tolled the noon hour in Middleton. Miss Martin stuck her knitting needles into the ball of blue yarn and dropped it into her knitting case. Then she took her usual noon-time seat in the rocker before her front parlor window. She parted the stiffly-starched lace curtains ever so slightly and peered out expectantly. Soon the children would pass by her house on their way home from school. For years and years it seemed, she had been watching them go by. None ever came in. Hardly anyone else in town ever came in either, unless they came to ask for a donation for this or that, since she was the richest woman in the town?the whole county for that matter. Her sensitive spirit had been hurt time after time by the attitude of people toward her. In reality, she wished to help with all their charities, yet because she believed it was her money people wanted more than her friendship, she had withdrawn herself from them. She rarely ever left the silent, dim, old-fashioned house where she lived alone with a couple of faithful servants. The children she watched today were daughters and sons of children she had watched this selfsame way years before. How excited and happy the children were today. This was the Friday before Mother's Day, and the grade school was having its annual Mother's Day program, just as it had done years before when she herself went to the Middleton grade school. She hadn't been to a school program since she graduated, and today she wished, more than anything else, that she could attend. Of course, anybody could go who wanted to, but it was chiefly attended by the children themselves and the mothers and friends they invited. It was a tradition that each child be represented, if not by his mother, at least by a relative or friend. Silly of her to even think of going. She would be the last person in town anyone would invite. If only that Mrs. Davis, chairman of the school lunchroom committee, hadn't been so inquisitive when she came with the other committee members to ask for a donation, she would gladly have given even a greater amount than they asked. Then today she would be attending the program as an honored guest. My, but the children were happy about their few extra hours holiday! Miss Martin knew they had until 2:30 that afternoon to get scrubbed and into their best clothes and back to school in time for the program.
Dorthea Diana Jones, eleven and one-half years old, was distinctly not one of the happy children this noon hour. She was walking rapidly, all but running, ahead of a group of girls who were taunting her unmercifully. Julia Lee Davis, a beautiful golden-haired girl, seemed to be leading the chant: "Dorthea can't take anyone; Dorthea can't take anyone. Can you Dorthea?" "Who'd be her guest today, I'd like to know," Julia Lee shouted. "My mother says she and that uncle she lives with are just?just 'derelicks.'" This last jibe goaded Dorthea beyond her endurance. True, she and Uncle Pete were the poorest people in the town, but they were good people, and not "derelicks"?whatever that was. She turned to Julia Lee, "Listen, you be still. I am taking a guest. She's my make-believe mother." Then she wished she had not said it, for there was no one she knew whom she could invite. If she went back on her boast, the girls would never forget it, and they would make life even more miserable for her. "Who'll it be? Rich Miss Martin?" the girls laughed. Dorthea kept silent. At the corner she turned and walked slowly down the street, thinking of the enormity of the falsehood she had told.
Hattie was serving lunch to her mistress when the ancient doorbell sounded long and loud. This rare occurrence so excited Miss Martin that she jumped up quickly. "Never mind, Hattie, I'll see who it is." A pigtailed, freckled-faced little girl in a faded gingham dress was contemplating the bell seriously when Miss Martin opened the door. Dorthea had not expected to see such a small, pretty lady. Had Dorthea been older and more experienced, she might have likened Miss Martin to a dainty Dresden-China lady. "Are... Are you Miss Martin?" the girl asked in an awed tone. "Yes," came the pleasant reply. "Well, I'm Dorthea Diana Jones, and I've come to ask a favor of you." "Well, child, come in and tell me what it is you want." "You see, I have no real mother to invite to our school party this afternoon. I thought if you weren't too busy maybe you'd be my make-believe mother and go with me." There was such a tense, pleading look in the upturned face of the child that Miss Martin was not surprised to hear herself reply: "Why, yes, Dorthea, you come by for me, and I'll be glad to go." As an afterthought, Dorthea added wistfully, "Of course, it isn't a real party?there won't be any refreshments, but I think you'll like the program." Miss Martin knew about Dorthea and her uncle, Pete Jones. Dorthea's uncle, had had a hard time getting steady work, though Hattie's husband said he was a good hand. Miss Martin mused a moment as she watched Dorthea run happily out through the gate. She believed tomorrow she would offer Pete Jones a steady job as her gardener. It wouldn't hurt to spruce up her lawn and shrubs a bit. He and Dorthea could live in the servant's sunny quarters over the old carriage house, too. It would be nice to have the child around?she was so bright looking. HE children were seated by grades on the front rows of seats in the auditorium. Julia Lee Davis, MAKE-BELIEVE MOTHER OR MOTHER FOR A DAY 263 264 whispering excitedly, was the center of an admiring group of girls. "Guess smarty Dorthea Jones was afraid to come this afternoon." 'Then she stopped, surprised, for seated at the end of the row was Dorthea, proud and calm. "Who came with you?" the girls whispered, and then giggled cruelly.: "You'll see," came the surprising answer. The program started promptly at 2:30. One by one, each child presented a poem or monologue to the assembled group and received the thundering plaudits of friends. Julia Lee was the only one to stumble through her lines. It seemed to her _ the only person she could see was Dorthea, who wasn't scared at all and sat there the whole time, smiling. Then it came Dorthea's turn. She was the very last one on the program. Her teacher had heard of the noon time scene and had placed her name last so that if she failed to appear the program would not be disrupted. To the astonishment of Miss Seers, the teacher, Dorthea presented her poem better than any of the others. She spoke clearly and distinctly with no trace of the singsong voice which had been her teacher's despair during the rehearsals. Julia Lee and her friends did not clap at the finish as they had done for the rest, until they heard loud applause coming from the back of the room. They turned to stare. 'There was Miss Martin, of all people, clapping and beaming until the rest of the audience had taken her cue. Then Dorthea, enviously watched by the 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1941

 sixth-grade girls, made another bow and took her seat. Mr. Buck, the principal, silenced the audience by going to the front of the stage. Clearing his throat importantly, he said: "Ordinarily the program would be over, but I have several unexpected and interesting announcements to make. I only learned of them this noon." The audience listened attentively as he continued, "Miss Mary Martin, who came as the honored guest of our excellent student, Dorthea Diana Jones, has kindly donated money with which to buy the permanent fixtures of a stove and refrigerator for our school lunchroom." Surprised clapping followed this. Announcement. Mrs. Davis, rising a bit from her seat, craned her head this way and that trying to find Miss Martin in the crowd. "And," Mr. Buck raised his hand to keep the crowd still another moment, "Miss Martin has prepared a surprise for us in the lunchroom. I think she wants you to lead the way with her, Dorthea." HOw important and dignified Dorthea felt with all eyes upon her as she and Miss Martin started up the aisle together. It was a curious procession of grownups and children that followed them. Dorthea opened the door to the lunchroom, and then her dignified air fell away before her natural, spontaneous excitement, for at the long tables were places set for everyone with big helpings of ice cream and cake just waiting to be eaten. Mrs. Davis and Julia Lee hurried to sit by Miss Martin and Dorthea. Then the most incredible thing happened. Just as she had whispered to the other girls, Julia Lee whispered to Dorthea: "Wouldn't you like to come to my birthday party next Saturday?" Dorthea knew now that the magic circle surrounding Julia Lee had opened to let her in Mrs. Davis had heard her daughter's invitation. She leaned close to Miss Martin, "I'm asking the mothers of the girls to Julia Lee's birthday party next Saturday afternoon, and I'd like to have you come with Dorthea." Miss Martin nodded her assent, while she thought to herself, "Looks like my life is going to be very gay from now on." When the guests had gone, Dorthea stayed to help Miss Martin and Hattie clear the tables and put things away. "Maybe, Miss Martin, you'll let me do something for you sometime. You've been so nice to me today." Dorthea's voice quavered perilously near tears. "I?ll tell you what you can do for me," Miss Martin returned with a smile, "You can let me keep on being your 'make-believe mother.' " Impulsively, Dorthea put her strong, young arms about the frail, little lady. With that loving gesture, she transferred to Miss Martin all the love she had cherished for her unknown mother. "Tll let you be my 'make-believe mother' forever," she murmured happily. A TO MY MOTHER Roberta Bates My mother's eyes are like the stars; Since time began for me Their light has filled my universe? Shall fill eternity. My mother's voice is all the music Of the world caught in one song? A song of roses in the rain, A hymn of birds at dawn. And like the soft deep shadows That at close of day begin To fold the world in deep content, Her love has wrapped me in. I MAKE-BELIEVE MOTHER OR MOTHER FOR A DAY 265 Helpful Aids To Reading Vauna Smith Jacobsen "Books are the food of youth, the delight of old age; the ornament of prosperity, the refuge and comfort of adversity; a delight at home, and no hindrance abroad; companions at night, in traveling, in the country." MODERN-DAY revelation gives divine guidance on reading: "And set in order the churches, and study and learn, and become acquainted with all good books, and with languages, tongues and people." (Doctrine and Covenants 90:15) With compulsory education for children up to eighteen years of age, it is believed by many that all people in the United States read extensively. This is an erroneous idea. At least 25 per cent of our people will never do much reading. They have neither the ability nor the desire. "Tests of 3,000 subjects show that the reading ability of the average American just measures up to that of a normal sixthgrade boy."" The term "reading" may be applied to two utterly different types of experience: first, skimming the daily paper and light fiction contained in periodicals; second, enjoyment and appreciation of books of real worth, books that have stood the test of time. Newspapers are read by nearly everyone, men reading them a little more extensively and carefully than women. Periodicals and magazines come next in popularity. John E. Lodge, "Do You Know How To Read," Popular Science, September, 1937- *F. K. W. Drury and W. E. Simnett, What Books Shall I Read, p. 9. ?Cicero. Periodicals have increased in volume 170 per cent since 1900,' and they are read by about 75 per cent of our people. Only 50 per cent of the reading public go to books for their reading enjoyment. It is to be regretted that this source of pleasure and information is so neglected. The most popular types of books read, listed in the order of their popularity, are as follows: fiction, personal hygiene, the next war, and administration of justice." Why do we read? Several motives may be stated. Most people feel a need to keep acquainted with current events. This, no doubt, accounts for the almost universal use of the newspaper. Books are our most complete and accurate source of specific information and are, therefore, used extensively by those who seck to advance in certain fields of work. Many more people, however, read books for sheer pleasure and relaxation than for any other reason. This is an honorable motive and needs no apology. One of the true tests of good literature is that it brings enjoyment. Reading is a habit to be deliberately cultivated. By this means alone can a taste in literature be acquired. It is not the quantity?merely the 2Lodge, Op. Cit. 3. Drury and Simnett, Op. Cit. HELPFUL AIDS TO READING number of pages read?that leads to an appreciation of the written word. The quality of the work and the effect that it has upon our lives should be the deciding factor in our choice of reading material. The good things we remember, the enrichment of our lives, and the inspiration to be better, make reading worth while. 'The plan for each day should include time for reading some good written work, just a few minutes will suffice if no more is available. After a period of a few months or a year, the amount accomplished will be a surprise. The present trend of contemporary novels is for long. Stories. Hundreds and hundreds of words cover hundreds of pages. Gone with the Wind is an excellent example of this. When we consider the number of persons who have found time to read this book, it appears obvious. That the number of hours required for reading is not the reason for the limited amount of reading done by many people. Where there is sufficient interest, the time for reading will be found. Yet, lack of time is the primary excuse of those who do not read. Abbe Ernest Dimnet in the Art of Thinking, says, "Do not read good books?life is too short for that. Only read the best. And of those only read what gives you the greatest pleasure. The busier you are the more severe your selection should be. But you have no time, you say. Are you sincere? No time? Examine your conscience and answer. Is there no time you can reclaim, not from your work, not from your exercise nor from your family or friends, but from pleasure that really does 267 not give you much pleasure, from empty talk at the Club, from inferior plays, from doubtfully enjoyable week ends, or not very profitable trips? Do you know how to gather up fragments of time lest they perish? Do you realize the value of minutes? VERY BUSY PEOPLE ALWAYS FIND TIME FOR EVERYTHING. Conversely, people with immense leisure find time for nothing." Get the reading habit and capitalize on the wealth of the ages. THERE is a technique of reading that should be mastered. 'This skill comes only with practice. In reading a line of print, the average reader's eyes jump from word to word instead of from group to group. He will halt from six to eight times in reading a_ten-word sentence, though he ought to do it in three or four jumps. This causes undue eye strain and requires an excessive amount of energy. 'The practice of reading groups of words instead of individual words makes reading easier. Most people read too slowly. A sixth-grader reads about 200 words a minute, a high school student 295 words, and a college man 325. A very unusual eight-year-old boy read comprehendingly 2,000 words a minute. The normal adult averages somewhere between the sixth-grader and the high school student, but this speed can be increased with proper attention given to spacing and through making a conscious effort to read faster. Lip movers are handicapped because they read only as fast as they speak. We should force ourselves to read at a pace faster than is comfortable. Dr. Guy T. Buswell of the University of Chicago, 268 who made the tests which resulted in the above findings, says: "You're never learning when you're comfortable." Reading in bed upon retiring, an act indulged in by many, is not conducive to thoughtful reading. Material of a lighter nature may be enjoyed in this manner, but careful study and concentration should be attempted when the mind is clear and the body rested. It is not necessary to read through every printed word. Adapt thoroughness of reading to the nature and purpose of that which is read. In Lord Bacon's Of Studies we read: "Read not to contradict or confute, nor to believe and take for granted; nor to find talk and discourse, but to weigh and consider. Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and some few to be chewed and digested." HE responsibility of teaching children proper reading habits and a love for literature lies with the parents. Brigham Young called to mothers, saying, "Mothers, will you be missionaries? We will appoint you a mission to teach your children their duty; and instead of ruffles and fine dresses to adorn the body, teach them that which will adorn their minds." No greater help to mothers can be found than good books. William Frederick Bigelow has written this: "Could we give one gift to every child We should choose the love of books." A child's first introduction to literature comes when' his mother reads to him, The bedtime story *Popular Science, September, 1937. Known. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1941

 hour, is a time of priceless worth. Aesop's Fables, Anderson's Fairy Tales and similar stories have long been used by mothers to satisfy the desire for make-believe. When a child receives his first reader, a desire to possess books is born. A wise mother plans to have interesting and appropriate books accessible. This does not mean she buys them all. Many libraries make it easy to have good books with little or no expense. As the desires and experiences of the child increase, the type of books he reads must change to meet his needs. Many desires of the growing child may be met and many problems solved through the characters he meets and loves through his reading. The adolescent period is an important period in the development of the child. Great care and understanding must then be used in guiding him to choose the proper type of books. At this age there is a tendency to break away from familiar paths and try the unknown. A poor choice of reading matter at this age may have an unwholesome effect. Good stories of adventure, animals, Indians, and some mystery stories may aid patents in overcoming some of the problems of this age. SOME women have not had the opportunity in their youth to cultivate a taste for good literature. The very term "literature" may even frighten them away from a study of good books. Good literature may be enjoyed by young and old alike. Its message is universal.