As soon as Library period came, Janet hurried to the newspaper rack and took down the Morning Star. She turned the pages eagerly, and at last came upon the "Sunshine Corner." She read every word and found that anyone could write and ask any kind of question, and the Sunshine Lady would answer it. Her advice seemed so sensible, so friendly, that Janet was filled with wonder. If the Sunshine Lady could answer all of these questions, solve all these problems, perhaps she could help a worried little girl, too. Slowly Janet's plan took shape. Determined to waste no time, -the 'little girl set to work to put it into effect. She had some stationery that had been given to her at Christmas. She had never had to use any of it, but she knew what it was for. The next morning, she slyly brought to the study room some of the paper and an envelope, and at study time, using her clipping as a guide, she wrote her letter. She started it exactly as the mother had: done: 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?APRIL, 1941

 "Dear Sunshine Lady, "I am coming to you with my problem because you have helped so many, many people." After she had written that much, the rest came easy, and she wrote as she had never written before, pouring out her troubles to the sympathetic helper who waited, somewhere, to answer her. "You know how boys are," she wrote. "They have to have a yard to play in and a dog, and they have to whistle and make a noise like an airplane. They don't need so many clothes in the summer. They like to wear trunks most of the time, especially if they live near the seashore. Girls can get along in a Home all right, but with boys it's different." Then she explained how she must find someone who would take her along with Stevie: "I can work like everything, so I wouldn't be much trouble. I can even make beds like they do in hospitals." The letter took four whole pages, written on both sides, but at last it was done and folded and stuffed into the envelope. Janet gave her lessons no thought as the end of the study period sounded. She was wondering where she could get a stamp to mail the letter. Janet knew, though she didn't know where she had learned it, that every letter must have a stamp on it. She was sure she could ask 'Teacher for one, but then she would have to explain about the letter, and Teacher might even want to read it. Janet didn't want that. She didn't want to have anyone know about it until she had seen an answer in the "Sunshine Corner." But then, as if in answer to her need, Teacher, at her deck, slit open an envelope and tossed it into the YOU KNOW HOW BOYS ARE wastebasket as she read the letter it had contained. Janet's eyes, alert as a squirrel's, saw that the discarded envelope bore a stamp, and that the stamp seemed to be perfectly new. Janet watched for a chance to get that envelope, and before the day was over she had found a moment when she could slip it from the wastebasket into her copy book. She felt a little bit guilty as she thought about it. But then, she thought, Teacher had thrown the envelope away. She was sure she would have said yes, if Janet had asked for it. That night Janet carefully.