"A Day To Remember" APRIL 6, 1830 Vesta P. Crawford
"A day now revered by hundreds of thousands... to be held in sacred veneration throughout all time... the Messiah Himself shall come."
On April 6, 1830, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized. In a scene of pastoral beauty, on a day in spring, six men pledged themselves to bear the standard of a restored gospel—to be witnesses for the words of God, revealed to Joseph Smith, the Prophet. "And thus arose a system which the world terms Mormonism, universally recognized as the most remarkable religious movement of modern times... Revered and defended by its disciples as the wonderful work of the Almighty, the veritable 'marvelous work and wonder' foretold by Isaiah and other ancient seers."
One hundred and eleven years is a long way to travel back along the road of time, and so much has happened to change America and the world that it is difficult for us to picture the events and appreciate the divinity and solemnity, the sacred significance, of one of the world's most important days. Before we come to the Whitmer farmhouse, before we open the door and visit with those six young men, let us first orient ourselves in the world of 1830 and see what was happening in America and in the older nations beyond the sea. Let us discover, if we can, why this year—1830—and this place—Fayette, New York, in the United States of America—were the time and place exactly propitious for the restoration of God's ancient word.
The nineteenth century was a time of enlargement of the ideas of freedom and liberty which the American Revolution and the French Revolution had proclaimed to an awakening world in the later part of the preceding century. In France, despite trouble and opposition, the people were moving steadily toward the establishment of their second republic. Even in Germany, the peasants were beginning to demand recognition as individuals and rights as citizens. In England, the Princess Victoria, one day to be a liberal empress, was eleven years old, a girl child being trained in the larger virtues of government. It was said that the clean wind of liberty was blowing in the world. But it had not, in Europe, reached a stage where a new prophet might deliver his divine message. And yet, these European nations were destined to send their people by the thousands across the great waters to the gathering in Zion. In America, the dream of the founding fathers for a more perfect union and greater individual liberty rose as a mighty tide in the "thirties.” Men and women, filled with hope in their new heritage, turned their faces to the West and surveyed the vast unclaimed frontier whose far boundaries few Americans had ever seen. Let us, for a moment, meet some of the noble and great ones who shaped American destiny and American dreams in that era of spiritual awakening. Andrew Jackson, a citizen-soldier, is President of the United States. It is he who has finally made political democracy an established fact. In seven days from this 6th of April, 1830, Andrew Jackson' will deliver one of the most significant speeches ever made in America—"Our Federal Union—it must be preserved." It has been seven years since _ James Monroe, fifth President of the United States, announced that doctrine of continental independence which now, in our time, has acquired a new and vital meaning. In this spring of 1830, Abraham Lincoln, now twenty-one years old, 

 

 is moving into Illinois. In this same year, John C. Calhoun is busy developing two tragic ideas—state's rights and nullification. Daniel Webster is lifting his voice in defense of an everlasting union. John Greenleaf Whittier, the Quaker Poet, is vigorously denouncing slavery in his "Haverhill Gazette." Noah Webster has just published his "American Dictionary of the English Language." Longfellow, at twenty-three, is Professor of Modern Languages in a New England college. Ralph Waldo Emerson, aged twenty-seven, is a Unitarian clergyman in Boston. He speaks of the dignity of the human spirit, of men and their infinite capabilities, of the liberality of the soul. In this year of 1830, men of letters, men of religion, and men of politics, speak the mighty word—LIBERTY. These are some of the names and some of the voices that are heard in America in the days of the "thirties." WHAT of the progress of the country? 'In one year, the first engine to carry a train in the State of New York will make its famous trip between Schenectady and Albany. There are no automobiles, and there will be none for sixty more years; no airplanes for seventy years. America, for the most part, is lighted by the sun and the moon, by stars and tallow candles. Where are the boundaries of the United States of America? Western New York is known as a wilderness, and certainly it is a frontier. But it is not the far frontier. The rich, broad valleys of the A DAY TO REMEMBER Mississippi are attracting settlers by thousands to "free" soil. It is said in these days of 1830 that Americans look ever to the West and that their feet itch for the feel of the long turnpike roads, for the forest trails, and for the fordings of the ~ great rivers. "Go West, young man, go West," is already echoed and reechoed along the eastern seaboard. America, like a newly-awakened giant, stretches its mighty limbs. And what of the Far West? What of those remote valleys beyond the Rockies where some day a great church, grown from a small beginning, will build its temples in the valleys of the mountains? Fur traders have traversed the valleys of Utah; Spanish priests have crossed its deserts and climbed its towering mountains. 'The first wheeled vehicle ever to cross South Pass was a mounted cannon which the fur trader, Ashley, took to Utah Lake in 1825. These were the first wheel tracks to mark the desolate trail which the Mormons, by thousands, were to pass along in later years. HE six young men who organized the Church perhaps were not that day thinking of a far-away home in the Rockies, and not one of them lived to see the Zion of the mountains. But the organization they made that day has been likened unto a stone thrown into a lake, the ripples whereof reach to the outermost shore. And the words of the Prophet have been carried so far that men in distant lands have said, "Let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and He will teach us 221 of His ways, and we will walk in - His paths." (Micah 4:2.) Let us femember, then, a day in the spring of 1830. In the green, rolling country of western New York, thirteen Finger Lakes, running north and south, glint in the sunlight. The fields of the Whitmer farm stretch toward the mirror-clear waters of Seneca Lake. It is a little more than thirty miles to the shore of great Lake Ontario. The border of Pennsylvania is some sixty miles to the south. Manchester and the sacred grove are north about twentythree miles, and a few miles beyond lies the little town of Palmyra, boyhood home of Joseph Smith, the Prophet. The acres of the Whitmer farm are broad and well tilled. The farmhouse is built strong and beautiful. The door of this hospitable house is never closed to anyone who seeks help or counsel or friendship from the kindly Whitmers. Suppose we open the door and enter. Suppose we shake hands with Peter Whitmer, Sr., well-to-do farmer, who, having prospered in the things of this world, now seeks for the riches of the spirit. Peter Whitmer is fifty-seven years old, the father of eight children—five boys and three girls. His wife, Mary, aged fifty-two, is known as a model housekeeper, a charitable neighbor, and a good Christian. The Whitmers have reared their children to be hard workers and to seek ever for the truth. Once an enemy of Joseph Smith tried to get Peter Whitmer, Sr., to deny the new gospel, but Peter only said, "Jesus Christ, yesterday, today, and forever." For months this large and com- 222 fortable home has housed, in addition to the Whitmers, the Prophet and his wife Emma, and Oliver Cowdery, second elder of the Church. It has been in this very house that much of the translation of the Book of Mormon has been accomplished, and near this home the witnesses saw the golden plates. Surely the Whitmer home and the Whitmers have already served the new gospel in its time of need. On this day, two of the Whitmer sons are to join with three Smith brothers and Oliver Cowdery to organize the new church in accordance with the laws of the State of New York which testify that a society, in order to be legally recognized, must have six members. Even in this early day, the young Prophet is eager to act in accordance with the laws of the Republic he loves, and is eager to serve. Here are the names of the six men who organized the Church: Joseph Smith, the Prophet, age 24 Oliver Cowdery, second elder of the Church, age 24. Hyrum Smith, older brother of the Prophet, age 30 Samuel H. Smith, a younger brother, age 22 David Whitmer, fourth son of Peter Whitmer, Sr., age 25 Peter Whitmer, Jr., youngest of the Whitmer boys, age 21 It will be seen that these six organizers are all young men, ranging in ages between twenty-one and thirty years. But this is a new church with a new vision, in a new country. This is a work "'which from its nature emphatically called for the enthusiasm, the faith, the hope of "Doctrine and Covenants Commentary, Discussion of Section 20, p. 138. 

 

 youth, and the youthful were most responsive to its call.' The Prophet at this time is in the full strength of his young manhood. He already exhibits many of the traits which are to distinguish him as his remarkable career progresses. One who was an intimate friend of the Prophet gives this description of him: "He was tall and well built, strong and active, of a light complexion, light hair, blue eyes... His countenance was mild, affable, beaming with intelligence and benevolence.... 'here was something connected with the serene and penetrating glance of his eye, as if he would penetrate the darkest abyss of the human heart, gaze into eternity, penetrate the heavens and comprehend all worlds." Oliver Cowdery, called the "second elder of the Church," was one of the first outside of the Smith family to hear of the Restored Gospel. Already he has acted as scribe for Joseph. He was a young school teacher boarding at the Smith home when he heard "the glad tidings" of the ancient faith brought again to earth. This Oliver Cowdery, who has for several months lived in the Whitmer home, will in two years marry the youngest of the Whitmers —Dorothy Ann. Hyrum, "of the faithful heart," although he is older, recognizes the divine calling of his brother, and his own high courage has already helped the Prophet to get the manuscript of the Book of Mormon into the 'Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 187. "Parley P. Pratt's statement, Preface to the Commentary on the Doctrine and Covenants, p. 19. A DAY TO REMEMBER hands of the printer. The young Samuel is ready and eager to follow the teaching of his inspired brother. David and Peter Whitmer were baptized almost a year before this day of organization. It was David who furnished the Prophet with food and supplies when he was working on the translation of the golden plates in Harmony, Pennsylvania. These, then, are the six who meet together on this day in spring, 1830, to organize the Church. The proceedings of the solemn occasion are best described in the words of the Prophet: "Having opened meeting by solemn prayer to our Heavenly Father, we proceeded according to previous commandment, to call on our brethren to know whether they accepted us as their teachers in the things of the kingdom of God and whether they were satisfied that we should proceed and be organized as a Church according to said commandment which we had received. To these several propositions they consented by a unanimous vote. I then laid my hands upon Oliver Cowdery, and ordained him an Elder of the 'Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints'; after which, he ordained me also to the office of an Elder of said Church. "We then took bread, blessed it, and brake it with them; also wine, blessed it and drank it with them. We then laid our hands on each individual member of the Church present, that they might receive the gift of the Holy Ghost, and be confirmed members of the Church of Christ.... "We now proceeded to call out and ordain some others of the breth- 223 ren to different offices of the Priesthood, according as the Spirit manifested unto us; and after a happy time spent in witnessing and feeling for ourselves the powers and blessings of the Holy Ghost, through the grace of God bestowed upon us, we dismissed with the pleasing knowledge that we were now individually members of, and acknowledged of God, The Church of Jesus Christ, organized in accordance with commandments and revelations given by Him to ourselves in these last days, as well as according to the order of the Church as recorded in the New 'Testament. Several persons who had attended the above meeting, became convinced of the truth and came forward shortly after, and were received into the Church; among the rest, my own father and mother were baptized, to my great joy and consolation; and about the same time, Martin Harris and Orrin Porter Rockwell." ig will be seen that prayer played an important part in this organization. It has been said that the Church was founded on prayer. If Joseph Smith had not prayed for wisdom, then, perhaps, the Gospel might not have been restored through him. Prayer and the answers to prayer directed the finding of the plates and their translation, and prayer in all the years of Church history has been the forerunner of testimony, the evidence of faith. Significant in the records of this meeting are two great principles— the will of God and the consent of the people. Upon these two 'Joseph Smith, the Prophet, History of the Church, Vol. I, pp. 76-79. 224 principles the Church was founded and developed—the sovereignty of God and the free agency of his children. Surely the modern world seems to have largely forgotten these eternal laws, inherent truths holding power sufficient to save all men and all nations. - On this April day of inspiration and hope, the young Prophet has realized afresh "the source of spititual knowledge, and his life and his life's work have broadened; but his knowledge will not bring him peace in this world, except that peace of the soul that rejoices even in the midst of conflict—the peace that passeth understanding.... His testimony will arouse the wrath of men... Derision will laugh at his message to the world...." But on this day, the Prophet's heart is filled with thanksgiving, and he relates the joy that came to him when, that very afternoon, his father and mother and Orrin Porter Rockwell and Martin Harris were baptized and "were received into the Church." A few days from this Tuesday, on Sunday, April 11, Oliver Cowdery will preach the first public address of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and in the weeks to come many more will join the Church. On June 9, 1830, the first conference will be held, and on the following day, Emma Smith, wife of the Prophet, will be baptized, as well as many others who have heard and believed in the words of Joseph and the record that "speaks from the dust." 'Roberts, Comprehensive History of the Church, Vol. I, p. 58. 

 

 SUCH was the beginning of the Church as an organization. We might ask where, at this time, are ~those stalwart leaders who are to stand shoulder to shoulder with Joseph in the trying years to come. Where are Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball and Parley P. Pratt? Where are John Taylor and Wilford Woodruff and Lorenzo Snow? Brigham Young, now twenty-nine years old, is married to Miriam Works, and lives not far from the Prophet's home in New York State. He is practicing his profession, "carpenter, joiner, painter, glazier." It is more than two years before that autumn day when Brigham Young will journey to Kirtland, Ohio, to meet the Prophet. Heber C. Kimball, now twenty-nine years old, lives in New York State, where he makes pottery and studies the teachings of the Baptist Church. He will go with Brigham Young to visit the Prophet in Ohio. Parley P. Pratt, now twenty-three years old, will join the Church in September, 1830, and from that day forward he will be one to define the principles of Mormonism and carry the message to th world. John Taylor, this spring of 1830, has left his home in England, where he was a Methodist preacher, and has moved to Toronto, Canada. It will be six years before he joins the Church. Wilford Woodruff, now twenty-three years old, will not meet the Prophet until 1834, and Lorenzo Snow, now only sixteen years old, will be baptized in 1836. Thus, the new Church grew rapidly and attracted to its membership brave and courageous men and A DAY TO REMEMBER women willing to follow a prophet who had been accounted worthy to commune with the Father in Heaven and receive from the hands of an angel the ancient records of the Book of Mormon. It has been said that any belief is of little value unless it be "a light to your path, a guide to your steps, and a voice of counsel in times of difficult decision." Such a light and such a guide is the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. It is not the mere strength of numbers that brings power to an organization, rather it is the ideals and the philosophy, the divine guidance, the unity and hope, that direct its development. 225 Today in America the voice of the Prophet may be heard again in the teachings of Mormonism. For, as Orson Hyde once said, ""The voice of God through American policy, with loud and thrilling notes, cries, Come unto me all ye ends of the earth, and be ye saved from the yoke of tyrants and from the chains and fetters of bigotry,... And regale yourselves under the tree of liberty, whose branches are rapidly extending and whose fruit is rich and desirable, and whose leaves are for 2 298 the healing of the nations'. Orson Hyde, Fourth of July Address, 1858.