Such a clinic could not only stress law observance but, with proper backing, could compel it: Are You Busy Enough? By Jean Cox One of the best known child welfare leaders in the country made the following statement. "If a certain study on occurrence of temper tantrums represented more lower class mothers, there would be fewer records of temper tantrums." When this question was challenged by the group, he continued, "The mother who is busy with her own housework and care of children doesn't have time to notice emotional outbursts. Because she is occupied with her work her children have fewer temper tantrums than is the case of the mother who is giving more persistent supervision." It is generally conceded that temper tantrums are more frequent where there is a sympathetic audience. The mother busy with other things has little time to listen to or notice minor differences among her children. Anger does not last long if there is no audience. The practice of putting the angry child by himself cuts down the length of the outburst. In contrast to this method is that used by the overanxious mother who in her desire to shorten the outburst becomes insistent that the crying stop at once. This makes the child the center of ' attention and naturally prolongs the temper tantrum. When this method is used the mother in her desire for quiet builds up a resistance to her appeals which extends the time of the child's failure to listen to any appeal to reason. Frequently in this type of parent-child conflict the mother becomes angry at the child or at the whole situation which only further aggravates the tension of the child. Emotional outbursts have many causes. Anything that tends to increase emotional tension is apt to increase number and intensity of explosions. Emotional disturbances depend upon the immediately previous conditions. The wife who has had a difference with her husband or neighbor may be more irritable with her children than would otherwise be true. The business man who has been bawled out berates the office boy. The girl who has quarrelled with her best friend will have little patience with the problems of the smaller brother. Small children who have been irritated by an adult will be more apt to have outbursts of temper. The child who spanks her doll is frequently reflecting the mother's treatment of the child. The man who steps on the gas endangering lives because of differences at the breakfast table illustrates transfer of emotional outbursts. Scientific study of emotions as compared with similar studies of mental or physical development shows greater difficulty. It is impossible in order to study them, to create or keep intact emotions at any stage of the outburst. It is indeed difficult to find means of measuring and comparing kinds of emotions and intensity of outbursts. By use of photographs temper tantrum studies during different stages are being made by some of the nursery schools. Studies show that emotional outbursts should be adequate. Different children as well as adults express emotions differently. Some children express themselves immediately and adequately. They are the ones who recover equilibrium with lightning speed. Emotional outbursts should be in proportion to the tension. Prolonged, partially controlled emotions at almost explosive point are harrowing to the individual. In school or business or home where the dominance of one individual shortens explosions of other individuals and makes it impossible to clear the air, there is more tension than would result if the difficult matter were fought out or talked out. Prolonged feeling of injustice toward a member of the family lowers the morale of the family. Such a situation is not only difficult to overcome, but also difficult to forget. Infants show comparatively few distinct emotional reactions. They respond to stimuli of fear, rage and pleasure or the rudiments of affection. These are frequently called the primary emotions. Training in control of emotions is quite as important as training in muscular coordination. Arousing fear in young children is frequently overdone. Mothers interested in the welfare of their children may create a fear complex in the child when he should be encouraged to be independent. Frequent cautioning of children in climbing, running, sliding, makes it impossible for the child to acquire muscular control which may be later very valuable to him when he must face risks. The spread of emotional reactions increases with age. More kinds of emotions are felt as age increases. The emotions of love or affection may spread out into various moods or feelings. The amount of spread or shading of the emotions is determined by the previous emotional organization which determines lines on which subsequent emotional development or control will take place. If patterns of control have been 607 built up there will be less danger of emotional outbursts from minor irritations. Conversely the habit of quick unpleasant reactions to certain stimuli will result where a child is not helped to control his emotional reactions. The child who has frequent outbursts of anger will have more temper reactions or patterns than the child who has been trained to be more placid. With the irritable child many stimuli arouse temper irritations. Undue attention to temper outbursts may result in an irascible individual who wears the proverbial chip on his shoulder. One of the interesting principles which the child learns early in nursery school is that crying does not get him anywhere. Children who cry are never rewarded by receiving the object of the immediate temper tantrum. In several child welfare stations carefully controlled experiments on emotions have been conducted on children of different ages. These have shown that some fear reactions come into life late rather than early and shape the individual's life. Some fear reactions do not take place as anticipated. Infants shown snakes very early in life show no emotional reactions. Older children who had neither seen nor heard of snakes did not have marked fear reactions but showed tendency to withdraw when the snake was shown to the child. An interesting investigation on temper tantrums was conducted at the child welfare station at the University of Minnesota. A very carefully prepared record form was made for this use. In one investigation approximately thirty mothers kept record for forty consecutive days. The second investigation consisted of records of fifty mothers over ten consecutive days. These 608 mothers recorded anger outbursts of children from eight months to seven years. Previous studies had been made on fatigue where tabulations were made showing greatest fatigue at different hours of the day. A careful comparison of temper tantrums approximated in general form tabulations on fatigue. From the reports made by these two groups of mothers an interesting conclusion came out of the study which related to the methods of control used in anger situations. The methods most commonly recorded were threatening, spanking, slapping, ignoring and placating. The efficiency of these various methods is shown by the tabulations. 1. Threatening and spanking increase the number of emotional outbursts. 2. Methods of ignoring decreases the number of outbursts. 3. 'Methods of placating result in a greater number of outbursts than ignoring the irritation. 4. This is additional proof that the over anxious mother is apt to cause nervous tension which result in temper tantrums. The conclusions reached were that there are more temper tantrums during fatigue periods. The highest number immediately precedes meal time. There is a decided decrease following meal time. The highest number of tantrums is between five and six p. M. The fewest number recorded is between the hours seven and eight a. M. It is evident from the above that fatigue is one of the biggest factors in temper tantrums and in order to decrease the latter in frequency and intensity the child must be protected from excessive fatigue. Children have fewer outbursts when in the presence of placid persons. Lack of antagonism, and the resultant decreased resistance as a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE rule help the child to keep emotions under control. The Minnesota study also showed a tremendous sex difference between boys and girls with reference to frequency of temper tantrums. Records show that boys on the average have about nine times as many temper tantrums as do girls. This remains true at all age levels. Sex differences show that boys are much less docile individuals than girls. Boys know more about environment than do girls. They are constantly investigating and questioning about everything which intrigues their interest. Perhaps their excessive energy and resultant fatigue are partially responsible for their temper tantrums. Girls do not absorb as much general information as do their brothers. Boys study less than girls. | Boys challenge statements more than girls and are a little less ready to accept situations as they find them. Infants show relatively few distinctive emotional reactions. Their first emotional reactions, as previously stated, are affection, rage and fear which are shown by tension throughout the body. As the child grows there is a gradual change in emotional tension from mass tension to more specific action. At about eighteen months there is a progressive spread of emotional reactions. With increase in age, there has been considerable evidence that shades of emotions are graded down. In place of the primary emotions of affection, rage and fear we gradually find moods and feelings. Gradually, too, some of these emotional reactions vary in length of duration. Some are short while others are comparatively long. Emotional reactions vary with experience. Future emotional development is dependent upon previous emotional experiences. If a child gets angry at a ARE YOU BUSY ENOUGH? certain stimulus, future reactions will be shaped by his previous response. The challenge of the first sentence in addition to the discussion presented will, it is hoped, make mothers more conscious of their responsibility in the emotional development of their children. Better results will be obtained if parents also become conscious of their own emotional outbursts with their causes and effects on the younger generation. Habits are partly formed by imitation, frequent emotional explosions on the part of parents will be reflected by lack of emotional stability on the part of the little folks. Habits of lack of emotional control are more easily formed than 609 overcome. The story of the small boy who kicked the chair because father slammed the door because it stuck has many variations. The mother who has had an argument with father may be less reasonable with her children than otherwise. There are decided advantages in being placid rather than irritable in training children. Too few parents are conscious of the fact that being forceful and quiet in dealing with children has decided advantages. Another problem to which parents may give consideration is whether or not they show too much solicitude in their child training for much concern is quite as bad on the child as too little. Over solicitude on the part of the parent may make the child irritable rather than independent.