After Twenty Years By Mabel Harmer
There has been a great deal of comment on the twentieth anniversary this year of the "shot that was heard around the world." The shot fired by a young student that killed an Archduke and his wife and was the technical starting point for the great war that was "to end all wars" and to "make the world safe for democracy." Such was part of the propaganda used to induce the people of the United States to throw their forces into the war, but to just what extent now do people believe that all wars are ended?
When Premier Dollfuss of Austria was assassinated recently the world watched breathlessly for a time to see if a shot had been fired that would start another great conflagration. The death of Hindenburg shortly after brought fear into many hearts again and the growing power of Hitler strikes an ominous note. Sanguine indeed is the person who believes that the four-year debacle of two decades ago will never again be repeated.
The national mind is a strange thing and is sometimes motivated by strange impulses. Volumes have been written on who or what caused the great war and while it is an easy matter to blame the Serbian bullet or the German Kaiser as the primary cause still everyone knows that there were many more underlying and contributing causes. Fundamentally it was the urge for power and the need for economic markets that brought the great nations together and the intricate system of European alliances drew in the smaller powers.
In 1914 Germany's principal industries, iron, steel and machinery had expanded rapidly. She yearned to build railroads in the East. The lords of the Ruhr looked enviously upon the Briery ore fields of the French and the coal fields of Belgium. They dreamed of a great market in middle Europe. And what of the French? They too manufactured steel and could well use the iron of Lorraine and the coal of the Ruhr. What is the difference today? The French did not obtain the Ruhr which now produces more ore than in pre-war days and again the Germans are badly in need of export markets.
In addition to the nationalistic urges for war it is a sad fact that the people who produce the armaments are not above instigating causes for their use. One man recently wrote, "If I am killed in the 580 next war I hope they will put on my white cross a notation that the bullet which killed me cost a fraction of a cent to make and sold for three cents or more. Someone, I should like it known, made a nice profit on my extinction."
War costs a terrific amount of money, as we have good cause to know. It also makes a lot of money for someone. Last year the world spent over four billions on armaments. Seventy-five per cent of these armaments are bought from five. Great companies located in England, France, Japan, Czechoslovakia and the United States. Most of them have subsidiary companies in other countries. The manufacturing of firearms is by far the largest and most profitable industry although they also manufacture other steel products. Another curious fact is that these companies, in case of war, sell impartially at home or abroad so that an English boy may very likely be killed by a bullet made in his own country.
How did we become involved in the last war? Briefly according to the book "Why We Fought" by Gratten, emotional and intellectual currents here turned the money and goods of the United States largely into the Allied countries. Sentiment was augmented by propaganda. The Allied nations effected a blockade of Germany and in replying to the blockade Germany brought the submarine into use for the first time. Inspired by an attempt to protect our trade interests and partially, we trust, by humanitarianism, we protested. Our protests led the British to tighten the blockade until Germany in desperation made a toss up for all or nothing and lost.
Songs were sung, flags were waved and we felt a burning desire to pour our love, our money and our RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE men into France. For what? To help defend defenseless nations? Perhaps. It is not my purpose, except superficially, to go into the origin of the late war or to present arguments as to whether or not we should have entered. I want to say something about the likelihood of future wars and what will be our attitude about sending our manpower again in such an event.
WHILE war is not inevitable, the great majority of people believe it to be so. The history of European countries is fraught with the desire for expanding power and territory. With them it is an eternal game. If then to serve selfish economic interests the world again becomes involved in war, how can our own country keep out of it?
At present we have very little maudlin sentiment toward foreign countries. We realized that we played a heavy role in financing the last war and received precious little thanks for our efforts. Nevertheless, neutrality is not a simple matter. Insidious propaganda is always afoot and is often difficult to recognize. The chances are very great that we shall again become involved unless we think through the problem clearly in times of peace and carefully build up a policy of real neutrality. This is far more difficult to achieve than it sounds. Some writers think that it is impossible and that we would enter in even shorter time than we did before.
Everyone remembers the "war babies" of twenty years ago when riches were suddenly poured into the laps of those who had goods to sell to Europe. Apparently we became prosperous. A prosperity, alas, for which we are paying a heavy price now. We also 'entered upon the unique AFTER TWENTY YEARS 581 policy of lending Europe the money with which to buy our goods. The method of doing business by means of long term credit proved dangerous in the past and should be avoided in the future.
It is always possible, of course, that we will become involved in conflict which touches us vitally—where our homes or our honor actually become endangered. But if, as was the case in the last war, we are drawn into a fire created by grasping nations and fanned by selfish interests, what will be our attitude when it-comes to sending our sons to fight?
Do you remember how at the beginning of the world war we sang, "I Didn't Raise My Boy To Be a Soldier," and re-elected Wilson because he had "kept us out of war?" After two years or so the words were changed for us. We were taught to sing, "I'll Raise My Boy To Be a Soldier and a Credit to the U. S. A." Is it putting it too strong to say that the words might have been, "I'll Raise My Boy To Be a Soldier and a Sacrifice to Ambition."
I was deeply impressed with some of the scenes in the recent motion picture "Cavalcade." At the beginning of the war the soldiers were shown going forth with the buoyancy of youth in the traditional manner of the glory of the battlefield. The scenes of the end of the war showed the soldiers staggering on, broken, disillusioned, scarcely able to carry the burden on. It is the latter picture of war that should be impressed on the youth of the land. Alas! If we might also impress it more strongly upon the makers of war!
There is some comfort in the changed attitude of the present-day press. Magazines for children will not accept stories in which war is glorified in any way. Our own attitude toward foreign nations has changed most decidedly since we have sorrowfully discovered that the war we frantically sold Liberty bonds to help pay for simply changed boundary lines a trifle but left selfish nationalistic desires much the same as they were before. And with this knowledge in mind, what will we do if the call comes again for our loved ones? When the bands play and the flags wave and patriotic fervor runs high, with some queer paradoxical feeling of pride will we send them forth, perhaps to become the victims of bullets on which somebody has made a profit of three cents?