OTIS L. AND JULIA ERCANBRACK AND THEIR CHILDREN Young Mothers By Holly Baxter Keddington WOMEN have ever been interested in civic problems, though suffrage seems to have announced women's arrival in community and national affairs. Here is a quotation from a book "The World's Famous Orations," compiled by Wm. Jennings Bryan, in which Cato delivered an oration in support of the Oppian law in 215 B. C. This law declared that "no woman should possess more than half an ounce of gold, or wear a garment of various colors, or ride in a carriage drawn by horses in a city, or in a town * * * except on occasions of some religious solemnity." Cato says, "Our ancestors thought it not proper that women should perform any, even private business, without a. Director; but that they should be under the control of parents, brothers, or husbands. We, it seems, suffer them, now, to interfere in the management of state affairs and to thrust themselves into the forum, into general assemblies of election; for what are they doing now in your streets and lanes? What about arguing, some in support of the motion of the tribunes; others contending for the repeal of the law?" After more than 2,000 years of effort, improving and supporting efforts of others who are improving our communities, women are taking their places in many fields of labor. Much has been said regarding women's advent into politics being a definite move toward better government. Let us hope so. Study world problems, investigate qualifications of candidates, refuse to be blindly led, young mothers, and when you vote you will feel you have done a service to your community. Some day we may become big enough to forget party politics and elect men who are best able to fill those positions, without making them first appear as scoundrels. * * FUNNY how we all have our little dislikes, that I am calling "Pet Peeves." After inquiring around a bit, I discovered that ironing, dishes, dusting and mending are the outstanding "Peeves." When I asked what to do about overcoming these difficulties, some said they guessed they never would entirely get over their dislike for the tasks though they might improve their technique. One woman said "Oh, how I dislike ironing! But I have learned to arrange my dampened clothes so that the pieces I most dislike are mixed in with the ones I don't mind, then with this bit of change I keep at the job until it is done. I never pick out the pieces I want to do, I just take them as they come." Overcoming a "Pet Peeve" evidently develops that fine characteristic, perseverance. I HAVE been asked to stress proper quarantine law observance in this page. Proper isolation and quarantine of infectious cases is a decided check in epidemics of children's diseases that are spread so easily at school. A mother, who has lived near a family which disregards this law and who knows uncertainty and fear for her little ones, is seldom an offender. There are other mothers who, for the sake of a few days of freedom, make their own children menaces in the neighborhood. Quarantine observance cannot be left to the individual as long as there are wilful offenders. A group of women could do much along this line, if a clinic, such as one suggested in a former magazine, were organized.