The Open Mind By Frank C. Steele I am thankful that I have so far progressed in my education that I can be honest with myself—that I have an open mind, a mind ready to inquire into and accept new truth. I came West bitterly prejudiced against 'Mormonism,' but life in the West has opened the windows of my mind, the cobwebs of intolerance have been blown away, and I find that the system of religion that I had detested has much, very much, to commend it to the truth-seeker." In words to this effect a friend of mine, the instructor in history in a High School, related his making-over with respect to his attitude toward new truth. He rejoiced that his old attitude had been changed, that bias and prejudice had given way to freedom of thought and a willingness to accept new light even though it upset his former pet notions. And now that he is in that position he will progress in his search for Truth, for Truth is the priceless reward of the open mind. One splendid thing about the Gospel of Jesus Christ, it changes our attitudes. Do you recall the instance of the mothers who brought their little ones to the Master that he might bless them? With their cold, age-old attitude toward children and their obscure place in the scheme of things, the Apostles were bent on turning away the faithful mothers and their babes. Not so the loving and all-wise Master. To the astonishment of his disciples he took the babes in his arms and blessed them saying: "Suffer the little children to come unto me, for of such is the Kingdom of heaven." Strange doctrine. Yes. But true, for on that day Jesus gave the world its greatest lesson in Child Welfare. The road of the prophet, the revealer of new truth, is usually lonely and hard. The prophet's way is not the easy way for there seems to be something in the make-up of man that makes him resist and resent the impact of new truth. He dislikes being dislodged from his old positions, his old dogmas, his old ideas of what is right and worthwhile. He clutches his traditions as he does the heirlooms handed down from generation to generation. And often in his hatred of the Revelator he goes so far as to persecute and slay. It has been the same in all ages, for human nature is slow in its evolution. Noah rejected, Socrates drinking the hemlock, Nephi in chains, Stephen stoned, Bruno burned at the stake, Joseph Smith shot as he sought to shield his brethren, Christ crucified between two thieves—these are the evidences of that cast of mind, that resistance to Truth that has cluttered the path of progress from earliest times. And what is the lesson? It is this: strive for the open mind, uproot intolerance, and cherish the gift of the Holy Spirit which will lead the humble searcher into all Truth. A writer in the American Magazine related a story that comes to me now as apropos. A certain Greenland Eskimo, he said, was taken on one of the American North Polar expeditions a number of years ago. Later, as a reward for faithful service, he was taken 614 to New York City for a short visit. At all the miracles of sight and sound he was filled with a most amazed wonder. When he returned to his native village he told stories of the buildings that reached to the face of the sky; of street cars, which he described as houses that moved along the trail with people living in them as they moved; of mammoth bridges, artificial lights, and many other strange sights witnessed in the metropolis. His people looked at the native coldly and walked away. And forthwith throughout the whole countryside they called him Sagdluk, meaning The Liar. This name he carried in shame to his grave. In fact, explorers tell us, his real name was forgotten. Now there was some excuse for the Eskimos. It was difficult for their primitive minds to grasp such RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a dazzling revelation. But to us with the innumerable advantages of civilization there is no excuse for ignorance, no excuse for a mind closed to new truth. There have been, and there will again be reformations effected that may strike at the heart of things we and our fathers have held most dear. It required a vision to convince Peter, the chief of the apostles, that the Gospel was for the Gentiles as well as for the Jews. Paul was stricken with blindness and disciplined severely before he accepted the truth of the Gospel of our Lord. But when his eyes were opened he became a mighty defender of the faith he formerly had persecuted even unto "strange cities." The spirit of toleration is growing in the world. What a happy world it will be to live in when narrowness and prejudice are banished from the hearts and minds of our | Father's children.