(To be continued) CLOUD SCENE AT YELLOWSTONE Miracles Do Happen By Claire Stewart Boyer Characters: Ann Cowan (Hesitant). Rebecca James (Bitter). Place: At Ann's Home. ScENE 1. 1926, at rise of curtain Ann and Rebecca seated in rockers near small table. Rebecca (in discouraging voice): It's no use, Ann! Anyway you look at it it's all wrong! We women haven't a chance. It's just as hard as it was in pioneer days—only it's different. We work from dawn till dusk just the same and Saturday night we're not ready for the beginning of a new week at all. We're not even ready for Sunday.: Ann: No, I can't say I really enjoy looking forward to Sunday. There's usually so many odds and ends to finish up I can't even get to church. Rebecca: I don't know that you miss much. They just tell us we should spend more time reading the Bible, and goodness knows that's impossible. Why I can hardly find a minute to call my own and I spend hours thinking of the kind deeds I'd like to do (pause) and then never find time to do them. Ann: Well, I guess we should do more for each other—we're not as thoughtful as we should be. Rebecca: You're the only one I even neighbor with. And then it's usually because I want a good cry and your's such a sympathetic soul. Ann: Yes, this old table has seen many a cry. Rebecca: Well there's a great pleasure in being able to have someone to cry to. I don't know what I'd do without you. There's times when I just can't keep myself from — (choking )— Ann: Yes, I know. Rebecca: Now, there's Calvin! We named him after President Coolidge, and he just won't talk. Can't get a word out of him. It worries me terribly, but there's nothing to do—unless we change his name. Ann: Perhaps we worry too much, Rebecca. Rebecca: Nonsense, this life is just a series of stepping stones made of worry going over a river of 'trouble. There's no use, Ann, you'll have to admit it. Eyes. ) Ann: Well of course it's mostly sacrifice—sacrifice of pleasure and doing the things you want most to do, but— Rebecca: Well I'm tired of sacrifice—it's never appreciated. I go without clothes and— Ann: Yes, I know, and then we lose interest in keeping our hair neat and in being charming around home. Look at us! Rebecca: (Rises in a huff) Well, I didn't come here to be criticized, Ann. I get enough of that at home. Ann: Sit down, Becky. Rebecca: (Calming herself) Even the children are correcting me now. I don't talk to suit them. I suppose I shan't be good enough for them in a few years. Ann: You know sometimes, Rebecca, I wonder if it's our own fault. Rebecca: No, dear, it's just our Fate. Ann: But that's a terrible hopelessly way of looking at life. Rebecca: Look here, Ann, there's something wrong with you this (She wipes her 596 morning; you're not at all like yourself. You usually coincide with all I say and today you're a doubting Thomas. Ann: Yes, Rebecca, there is something wrong. I've been thinking a lot lately. I remember when I was a girl about Judy's age. I couldn't get my sewing machine to go and when I told mother there was something the matter with the machine she saw my impatience, smiled and said, "It is not the matter with the machine, it's the matter with the girl." Perhaps the world appears all wrong because we are wrong. Perhaps the matter is with us. Rebecca: Ann, I don't know what's come over you—we're middle aged,—you must remember that. It would take a miracle to change us. Ann: I still believe in miracles, don't you? Rebecca: I don't know. (Quick Curtain) Scene 2. Five years later. Ann (Beautifully groomed and humming a bit of a song) goes to door and returns happily with a letter—opens it—sits and starts to read —knock at door. She puts the letter in her pocket and goes to door. Ann: (Gracious and vibrant) Why, Rebecca, when did you get back? Come in. Rebecca: (Much the same) Well, I must apologize (noticing Ann's dress) for coming like this but I just had to come. Why, Ann, you're so different! Five years have—really—you're not the same at all. Ann: I'm glad of that. Sit down. Rebecca: Well I don't know that I am. You seem almost a stranger (looking around), you've evidently done well in the last five years. Ann: Oh, not so well financially but a little better in other ways. Rebecca: What other way? Ann: Just living, Rebecca. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Rebecca: Are you talking in parables? Ann: Probably. Miracles and parables aren't so hard to understand. Rebecca: Well I don't know as I can tell you what I came for— Ann: Surely you can, friends are friends, aren't they. Rebecca: Yes, but they seem to change.: Ann: Well, everything changes, Rebecca—but as long as it's not for the worse. Rebecca: Well things have changed for the worse for us. You know I sent Calvin away to school. He never was a hand to talk you remember. I thought maybe if he were lonesome he'd pour out his heart to me in letters. But he hasn't, he's written seldom and I've worried. Ann.: Hasn't he been getting along all right? Rebecca: Oh, yes, he's been doing wonderful work. But I couldn't be sure— Ann: We've got to be sure—we mothers must have faith in them. Judith knows I have absolute faith in her and she seems to want to live up to it.: Rebecca: Well it wasn't so bad until this morning. Ann, my heart's broken! (She sobs.) Ann: My dear (she comes over and puts her arm around Rebecca). Rebecca: (Through her sobs) He's fallen in love! Ann: That's natural. Rebecca: Natural! Ann Cowan, how can you be so hard-hearted! Ann: I'm not hard-hearted. I'm just reasonable. I've learned to look a situation in the face and try to solve it straightforwardly. We used to make ourselves believe the world was wrong, Rebecca. I know now it lies with us. Rebecca: Ann (suddenly), have you been psychoanalyzed? MIRACLES DO HAPPEN Ann: No. Except as I've analyzed myself. Rebecca: What have you been doing since I left that has made you so sure of yourself? Ann: I've been studying personality and it's made me over. Rebecca: No wonder you seem so different. Still I can't believe you'd be so, sure if you were in my place. With Judith at home— Ann: Judith isn't at home. Rebecca: She isn't? Ann: She's away at school, too. Rebecca: Why, Ann! Then tell me what to do about Calvin. You seem to have the power to master any situation. Ann: I think I'd write him back the happiest, longest, lovingest letter I could and tell him to bring the girl home in June. Rebecca: Oh, Ann, you've — (squares her shoulders) you've done something for me that I can't explain—but I can appreciate it. I came here for a good cry but—well perhaps we can both laugh now. Tell me about Judith. Ann: Well, State College— she's away at the 597 Rebecca: Why, that's where Calvin is! Ann: Really? Here's a letter I just received. I'll read it (she takes letter from her pocket). 'Dearest mother, all that you have taught me about life has now a new meaning, a more glorious meaning, a more living beauty. I can't keep the secret any longer—I'm engaged to Calvin James—" Rebecca: Ann! (Jumps up and goes to back of chair." Ann: Rebecca—(she wipes her eyes and reads) 'We are coming home in June to be married. If you and Calvin's mother are willing—" (she pauses). Well, Rebecca, I guess we've met our problem together. Rebecca: And I never would have had the strength to solve it if it hadn't been for you. Judith must be proud of you. Do—do you think | you could help me change—it would be a miracle if I could see life as you do. Ann: I'll take you to meeting this very afternoon. It's personality day. Rebecca: I'm so glad. I wonder if a miracle could happen to me? (Head up, with hope.)