Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in December) THE POWER OF PRAYER 1. An Accepted Principle. The Latter-day Saints need no conversion to the principle of prayer; the very existence of their Church is traceable to it. It is doubtful indeed that Deity would have revealed himself in these the latter days if there had been no one with sufficient faith to call upon him for help and guidance. But there was such an individual in the person of the youthful Joseph Smith: His faith was of such a nature, that when he appealed to heaven for wisdom, both the Father and the Son appeared in person to answer. Later, other and still other heavenly personages came to him, each with a message for his further guidance and instruction. Following his first vision, the Prophet sought the Lord in prayer almost continuously, and, as a result, his accomplishments were far ahead of uninspired human attainment. He translated the Book of Mormon; he translated the Book of Abraham, and he produced the Book of Doctrine and Covenants, also the Book of Moses. In addition, he organized the Church ?unequalled the world over in point of government and doctrine. He thus gave impetus to a movement that is going steadily forward, and destined eventually to fill the whole world. All this was accomplished by heavenly inspiration, obtained through the gateway of prayer. 2. The Divine Exemplar. The Savior himselfi?although the very Son of God?almost continuously appealed to the Father in prayer. It is recorded that on one occasion He prayed through the entire night. Shortly before His crucifixion, He met with His apostles in an upper room at Jerusalem. Here He administered the sacrament, and gave much instruction pertaining to the duties of those who were to remain. After He had done this, He lifted up His eyes to heaven and gave utterance to the immortal statement, "Father the hour is come; Glorify the Son, that the Son may also glorify thee I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do. And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self, with the glory which I had with thee before the world was." (Read John 17, the entire chapter.) Then, after passing over the brook Cedron, He prayed again, leaving his disciples to watch as He did so. Even while suffering the agonies of the cross, He continued His supplications to the Father. Surely the attitude of the Messiah should be an example to all. 3. Modern Example. The Father and the Son appeared to the youthful Joseph Smith as the result of prayer, in the early springtime of 1820. Some three and one-half years later, on the twenty-first of September, 1823, the Prophet sought the Lord in prayer and asked for a manifestation that he might know of his standing before the Lord in answer to which the angel Moroni appeared at his bedside, standing in the air in the midst of a light brighter than noonday. While translating the Nephite records at Harmony, Pennsylvania, in May of 1829, the LESSON DEPARTMENT Prophet and Oliver Cowdery sought the Lord in prayer concerning certain matters relating to baptism. In answer to this appeal, John the Baptist appeared to them and conferred upon them the Aaronic Priesthood. Several years later, the Prophet and Oliver Cowdery importuned the Lord in prayer behind the sacred veil of the temple at Kirtland, and the Son of God appeared in all His transcendent glory and power; and thus the history of the early development of the Church runs. Revelation after revelation received by the Prophet is prefaced by words such as these, "I enquired of the Lord, and I received the following." Indeed the entire history of Joseph Smith is characteristically one of prayer and of the answers thereto. Without prayer there would have been no vision; and without vision the people perish. 4. Scriptural Injunctions. One of the earliest revelations received by the Prophet contains the following significant promise: "Ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be opened unto you." (Doc. And Cov. 4:7.) In various forms this same promise is repeated scores of times in later revelations of the Doctrines and Covenant, perhaps primarily for the purpose of further emphasis. A few illustrations: To Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery the Lord said: "Tf thou wilt enquire, thou wilt know mysteries which are great and marvelous; therefore thou shalt exercise thy gift, that thou mayest find out mysteries, that thou mayest bring many to the knowledge of the truth, yea, convince them of the error of their ways." (Doc. And Cov. 6:11.) Again: "Blessed art thou for what thou hast done; for thou hast inquired of me, and behold, as often as thou hast inquired thou hast received instruction of my Spirit." 625 (Doc. And Cov. 6:14.) Later when Oliver Cowdery desired to be endowed with the gift of translation, the Lord said to him: "Whatsoever you shall ask me to tell you by that means, that I will grant unto you, and you shall have knowledge concerning it." (Doc. And Cov. 8:9.) To Martin Harris, who was the first to come to the Prophet's financial assistance, the Lord said: "Pray always, and I will pour out my Spirit upon you, and great shall be your blessings?yea, even more than if you should obtain treasures of earth and corruptibleness to the extent therefor. Behold, canst thou read this without rejoicing and lifting up thy heart for gladness?" (Doc. And Cov. 19:38, 39.) To twelve elders who were about to go forth two by two the Lord said: "If thou shalt ask, thou shalt receive revelation upon revelation, knowledge upon knowledge, that thou mayest know the mysteries and peaceable things? that which bringeth joy, that which bringeth life eternal." (Doc. And Cov. 42:61.). 5. In a revelation to the Church, at Kirtland, the Lord gave the following command: "Ye are commanded in all things to ask of God, who giveth liberally; and that which the Spirit testifies unto you, even so I would that ye should do so in all holiness of heart, walking uprightly before me, considering the end of your salvation, doing all things with prayer and thanksgiving." (Doc. And Cov. 46:7.) Seemingly somewhat in despair because of the weakness of certain of his people in Missouri, the Lord said: "This is my will; ask and ye shall receive; but men do not always do my will." (Doc. And Cov. 103:31.) Statements similar to the foregoing could be cited almost without number, but these are sufficient for present purpose. There can 626 be no doubt of what the Lord expects of his people in this matter. 6. Exacting Requirements. Deity discloses that he has given a law unto all things, and that whosoever is not able to abide the law cannot receive the blessing. (Read Doc. And Cov. 88:22-48.) The laws of God are not merely mandatory statements designed to test the attitude of His children; on the contrary, they are an expression of veritable realities which must be implicitly obeyed if the blessing is obtained. Answer to prayer is not an exception. If Deity is to reward our supplications we must comply with His requirements, and this too, with the utmost care and precision. We would not expect to obtain a desired chemical reaction without complying with necessary conditions. Neither should we expect to have our prayer answered unless we are equally as meticulous in conforming with requirements. Briefly the conditions are as follows: 7. In his widely quoted statement touching this matter, James, a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, makes it clear that unwavering faith is essential to the answering of prayers. Here are his words: "But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven of the wind and tossed. For let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. A double minded man is unstable in all his ways." (James 1: 6-8.) 8. Reference has already been made to Oliver Cowdery's ambition to translate, also to the Lord's reply to him. The Lord further said: "Doubt not Remember that without faith you can do nothing; therefore ask in faith. Trifle not with these things; do not ask for that which you ought not.' Later the Lord informed Oliver Cowdery RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that his prayers had not been answered because he had taken no thought "save it was to ask." Then the Lord said further: "You must study it out in your mind; then you must ask me if it be right, and if it is right I will cause that your bosom shall burn within you; therefore you shall feel that it is right." (Doc. And Cov. 9:81.) From the foregoing it appears that we must not only ask in faith, nothing wavering, but that we must ask only for the things that we need. Moreover, we must work for the fulfillment of our prayers. Then, again, the Lord limits His blessings to the things which are expedient for us. Here are His words: "Whatsoever ye ask the Father in my name it shall be given unto you, that is expedient for you." (Doc. And Cov. 88:64.) 9. It is quite apparent from the foregoing that a prayer acceptable to the Lord consists of far more than merely a verbal utterance. The request must be devoid of selfishness; it must contain only that which is expedient; it must be made with unwavering faith; and the individual must do whatever he can to bring about the fulfillment. This is prayer, whether voiced or unexpressed. It is a condition of the soul, and not merely a combination of words. It involves faith, intelligence, and work. 10. Prayer and the Operation of Natural Law. Here and there certain seemingly well informed people doubt the efficacy of prayer on the assumption that petitions to the Father cannot be answered without the infraction of natural law. Such people would assume, for example, that an appeal for the restoration of health could not be answered without violating or obstructing the operation of the laws of nature. They point out that natural laws are inexorable and therefore cannot be LESSON DEPARTMENT broken or set aside. The conclusion of this argument, namely that Deity cannot answer prayers, is wholly unfounded and without justification. Let us see. 11. Recently the writer of this lesson had occasion to go from one part of the city to another. He telephoned the central office of a taxicab company and stated his needs. In turn the attendant at the central office telephoned a sub-station, and within an incredibly short time an automobile was at the writer's door ready to take him wherever he chose to go. 12. It should be noted that no phase of this experience involved the infraction of natural laws. Quite to the contrary, it involved the control and use of it, to-wit: the telephone is a perfectly natural device, likewise the automobile, with all its parts and complications. Both of these devices responded to the will of man and made it possible for his appeal to be answered. Knowledge is power. God is all-knowing, and therefore 627 all-powerful. He can utilize the laws of nature to fulfill his purposes, but in so doing he does not violate them nor bring them to naught. In a similar, but very limited sense, natural law is gradually coming under the control of intelligent man. Railroad transportation, aviation, and wireless communication are examples. Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. Relate in detail the Master's prayer in Gethsemane. 2. Why in your judgment was it necessary for the Savior to pray? 3. Give a list of the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants received as an answer to prayer. 4. Why are individual prayers for such things as, say, rain likely to pass unanswered? 5. In what way do family prayers affect the home? Safeguard the individual against wrongdoing? Encourage allegiance to the Church and its leaders? Provide the individual with greater power to do good? Teachers' Topic (November, 1934) ARMISTICE DAY "It is out of sacrifice and suffering that the greatest things in life grow."'?Marshal Foch. The 11th of November, Armistice Day, should be made sacred throughout the world, for it is the anniversary of the end of the greatest conflict in history. After four years of war, with its unspeakable horrors and sorrows, emissaries of the principal nations involved, in council assembled in the forest of Campiegne, reached terms of peace, and the Armistice was signed on the eleventh of November, 1918. This act marks one of the most stupendous achievements in human experience. On that day the work of the soldier was completed, and the diplomat began, all with the hope and belief that this would forever end war. The full text of the Armistice consisted of 36 sections, the first of which read, "cessation of operations by land and in the air six hours after the signature of the Armistice." The Armistice was signed at 5 o'clock, French time, and hostilities ceased at 11 a. M. France, Britain and Germany were represented by appointed officials. Admiral Sims, of the American Navy was present unofficially. The German delegation 628 had been advised by President Wilson that Marshal Foch was qualified to communicate the Allies' conditions. The word that the Armistice was signed was the signal for such rejoicing as the world has never known before or since: sounding of sirens and whistles, ringing of bells and shouting from myriads of voices of men, women and children throughout all the streets of all cities in the civilized world. In commemoration of that day we pay tribute and respect to those who never returned, to those who returned crippled and maimed and gassed and shellshocked, and to those who witnessed the cruelties of war and were permitted through the grace of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a kind Providence to return sound in mind and body to their native land and homes. As each succeeding November brings another anniversary, let us remember the supreme need of justice in the relations of men and nations, and give our best efforts to the establishment of Peace, not forgetting those who died with the firm faith that their sacrifice was to end war.. 'On every November eleventh, at eleven o'clock, let us pause in the day's busy hum, with a silent prayer and remember: "In this drift of after years To pay honor with our tears, They dared to die, let us who live Dare to have pity and forgive." Literature LIFE AND LITERATURE (Third Week in December) THE NOVEL A SOCIAL RECORD "The old order changeth, yielding place to new, And God fulfills Himself in many ways, Lest one good custom should corrupt the world." ?Tennyson. Man's world is a changing world, a world of institutions. Exploration, conquest, and dominion have determined Man's national environment; wealth, science, and invention have created his social environment. Through the ages the social, economic, and spiritual horizons of the world have changed continually. For the benefit of mankind institutions, religion, marriage, the law have been organized. The measure of civilization lies in the opportunities it provides Man for his highest development. As the truths of life become known, society must change, nobler modes of life must replace "the wars of old," "the ancient forms of party strife," "the lust of Gold." Man, as his brother's keeper, must assume his responsibility as the master of his world, Society. John Galsworthy, Contemporary Novelist John Galsworthy, one of the most famous of contemporary English novelists, is known for his deep concern with the problems of modern society. Born of a cultured and prosperous Devonshire family, he had every advantage that position and wealth could bring a talented son. He was educated at the famous schools of Harrow and Oxford. He did not follow the profession of law when called to the bar in 1890; instead he traveled in Russia, the Orient, Australia, North and South LESSON DEPARTMENT America, studying the many and varied economic, social, and spiritual horizons of the world. His first literary work appeared in 1898 and his last work was published in 1933 shortly after his death. Few contemporary authors have so enthusiastic a group of admirers as John Galsworthy. He is notable for his novels, his short stories, his essays, and his plays. Looking at life steadily and understandingly, his writings all have social significance. His principal novels are those in which he analyzes middle-class life in England; his dramas deal with the inequalities in the political and social life of the humblest laboring classes; his essays are thoughtful discussions of social problems. All his works constitute a critical and dignified portrayal of contemporary life. His writing is marked by dramatic intensity in story telling, vivid characterization, and a charming style. His appeal is widespread to readers in the United States, and the British commonwealth. The chief works have been translated into French and German. Shortly before his death, Galsworthy was awarded the Nobel Prize, giving him recognition as one of the major men-ofletters of the age. Galsworthy is better understood when one knows his theory of art. "Art is the one form of human energy which works for union' and destroys the barriers between man and man. It is the continual, unconscious replacement of one self by another." The service which literature is coming more and more to render is bringing about a better human understanding. Galsworthy is known for his passionate love of justice, and his penetrating analysis of the problems of religion and marriage in a world of rapidly changing -social and spiritual horizons. The Pharisee is his target. The Pharisee conforms 629 strictly to the letter of outworn laws and antiquated ideas concerning education, marriage, religion, government, crime and its punishment, and the distribution of property. Individual Phariseeism is "'a blind spot in which no one can see himself." The vehicle of Phariseeism, Galsworthy sees as the middle-class family, the family of property. To carry his criticism of contemporary life Galsworthy created "The Forsyte Saga." The Forsytes are "the middle-class men of property, the pillars of society, the corner stones of convention." Individualism in the last century had brought them property and wealth. Admirable business qualities, fortunate investments, farsighted marriages, had made them men of property. As such they have no interests outside their family; they keep out a vision of spiritual values; they have no charity for the unfortunate. Galsworthy saw them at the close of the Victorian Era, the battle over, at ease at the top of the ladder. Galsworthy, born a Forsyte with a silver spoon in his mouth was intimately acquainted with the society he portrayed in "The Forsyte Saga." Galsworthy's greatest critic, St. John Ervine, says of him: "As one looked at Galsworthy's sensitive face he was aware of tightened lips,?But the lips were not tightened because of things done to him but of things done to others." It is natural then that John Galsworthy is a satirist. The test of a satirist is the worthiness of his purpose and the geniality of his spirit. The ingredients of satire ar? humor and criticism. Galsworthy's ironic insight into life saw the shortcomings of modern society. Fearlessly he attacked the shortcomings of his own class and sympathetically he portrayed human wrongs. He preserved a nice balance between humor and criticism; never do we 630 hear the swish of the satirist's broom, and never is his laughter too loud. If it is the supreme virtue of the novelist to create "the illusion of life," we acknowledge this power of Galsworthy, for in his novels we do find the illusion of life. From his wisdom we are able to select many a choice fragment to carry along as we further meditate upon the illusion: "We are all little bits of continuity. To despise one another is to deny continuity, and to deny continuity is to deny eternity." "The modern spirit is to understand and to forgive." "Be kind, keep up your end?that's all." The Forsyte Chronicles "The Forsyte Saga" is a series of chronicles of a well-to-do English family through several generations. The first series of the Saga consists of three novels "The Man of Property," "In Chancery," and "To Let;" and two short stories, "The Indian Summer of a Forsyte," and "The Awakening." It is a record of Soames Forsyte and his family. Life to the Forsytes was a series of family festivals, births, betrothals, marriages and funerals?no member ever doing anything that was not known to the rest. The outstanding characters of the family are Soames Forsyte and his daughter Fleur. Soames Forsyte is a man of property during the late Victorian period. He adds lands, pictures, and a wife to his already large fortune. Irene, the wife, discovers that she is merely an investment. When she requests her freedom, it is denied. Then she meets and loves Bosinney, an architect. Bosinney's way out is suicide. After several years Galsworthy waked the Forsytes out of silence in a second series of chronicles, 'The Modern Comedy" which includes "The White Monkey," "The Silver Spoon," "The Swan Song," novels, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and "A Silent Wooing," "Passers By," interludes, is a record of a new age, a post-war generation. It deals with the general disillusionment that succeeded the World War. Cynicism is the prevailing fashion. The young Forsytes are careless of property, they have what they want and they do as they please regardless of fathers and fathers-in-law. The concluding series of the Forsyte chronicles includes "The Maid in Waiting," "The Flowering Wilderness," and "One More River." In these novels Galsworthy records his poignant interest in a complex problem of modern life, marriage. "The Flowering Wilderness" is considered to be the best novel of Galsworthy's last series. It is evident, however, that the last two novels are inseparable, for in them the author expresses his ripe wisdom and philosophy on life's most serious problem, marriage. The world of Galsworthy's novels is like our own. The author has interpreted its meaning more clearly because of his greater insight, and its beauty and truth are more greatly enhanced because of his artistic imagination. "Who comes away from such a world to the more ordinary paths of daily living will be a bit surer of his own way, a bit more understanding of his neighbor, a little readier and more glad to suffer and to share life's pleasures and life's pains." Dorothy Canfield Fisher, Contemporary Novelist Dorothy Canfield Fisher, an important figure in American fiction, is a doctor of philosophy, mistress of six languages, lecturer, author of many books, member of the board of education. Of Vermont, and the mother of two children. Experiences varied and rich have LESSON DEPARTMENT prepared Mrs. Fisher to be an exponent of the fine art of living. She was born at Lawrence, Kansas, 1879, where her father was the president of the University of Kansas. When Mr. Canfield became librarian at Columbia University, his daughter became a student specializing in Romance languages. Dorothy spent much of her early life abroad with her mother, a talented artist and musician, in the Latin quarter of Paris and in French convent schools. After her marriage to John Redwood Fisher, writer and critic, in 1907, a year was spent in study in Italy and another in Norway. While in Italy Mrs. Fisher was selected by the American publishers to be the translator of Madame Montessori's book on education. Later Mrs. Fisher produced "A Montessori Mother," a simplification and adaptation of the Italian system of kindergarten education adapted to the needs of American mothers. Following this interest in education Mrs. Fisher later wrote "Mothers and Children" and "Learn or Perish" a series of essays on the problem of education. The Fishers made their home on a farm in the small Vermont village of Arlington. Two volumes of stories on Vermont life were written by Dorothy Canfield. A wellworn path leads up the mountain to the "Fishers," because the women of the village see her as a neighbor who understands and helps them. France was the second home of the Fishers. It was not strange then that in 1915 they went to France to do their share. Mr. Fisher directed a training camp for ambulance drivers; Mrs. Fisher did all kinds of relief work, her home in France was a refuge for children in need of care and shelter. During this intense period she wrote some of her finest work, "Home Fires in France' and "The Day of Glory," stories of those 631 French women and some Americans who quietly and steadily carried on holding life together until the war should cease. The income from these stories and previous work was spent by the Fishers in their relief work, because they knew and loved France. Returning home in 1919, normal life on the Vermont farm began again. Dorothy Canfield continued to write essays, stories, novels. Her best novels are: "The Bent Twig," revealing the life in the university town of her childhood; "The Brimming Cup," a vivid picture of Vermont life; "Her Son's Wife," the story of a widow school-teacher whose son brings home a wife the exact opposite of everything she has liked and approved; "The Deepening Stream," the deepening experience of a normal woman after marriage; "Bonfire," 1933, is a dramatic story of love and marriage in a Vermont village. Dorothy Canfield Fisher is one of a succession of women novelists, warm-hearted, courageous women interested in life. From out of her abundant living, Dorothy Canfield Fisher has gained a comprehension of the values of life. A dynamic personality, she has held out both hands to life, gaining a superb ability to portray the average life vividly and honestly. Intensely enthusiastic over the significance of human relationships, she makes this problem the subject of her novels. The gallery of children in her novels are very human little persons, intensely real. Her women are gracious lov'able individuals, many of them real creations. As an educator Mrs. Fisher is a frequent contributor to French periodicals as well as to the principal American magazines. As a literary critic she has received recognition through her appointment to the board of five judges of the Book of the Month Club of the  United States. Dorothy Canfield Fisher's greatest role, however, is that of a teacher, a helper, a friend, because she has made the plain word "service" a shining symbolical thing. "The Deepening Stream"' "The Deepening Stream" follows the current of an ordinary, average unsensational life, the life of an inherently fine woman, Matey Gilbert. From a lonely child of four she develops into a mature self-reliant woman, whose understanding of the meaning of life deepens with the years. Many times during her life she is brought face to face with the truth?"Life does not mean what you think, there is more." Matey Gilbert at the age of four began to puzzle over the mystery of remembering. The surprising appearance of a tulip in the garden, the lonely night vigil when lost in the woods with her brother and sister, the battered desk in the cheerless first schoolroom, her mother's obsession for dramatic activities, her father's manner of poking fun, half scolding and half teasing were stored in the dark hole of Matey's childhood memory. Professor Gilbert takes his family to Paris a second time. Mrs. Gilbert, impatient and restless, turns Matey to the care of Madame Vinet, a music teacher. The Vinet household is a wholesome place for the lonely child, there she enjoys the companionship of children her own age. Upon the return of the Gilbert family to their own country, life goes on much as before, Matey sees life as it lies nearest to her. Father, mother, sister, brother, each follow their own interests. Misunderstandings and family quarrels are the result. Matey never could understand Priscilla's grown-upness. Mother's social and civic consciousness, father's ironic comments about his colleagues. There came a simple accident, a brief illness, and Matey's father was dead. As she heard her father plead, "Jessica! Don't go away!" and her mother answer tenderly, "No, Morris dear, I won't leave you," it came to her, a new knowledge?"Why in some way of their own, Father and Mother, they belonged to each other, and knew it." Matey had not understood all these years, all her childhood had been shadowed and chilled by her lack of understanding of her family. As if defending herself from a terrible reproach Matey cried out, "Life does not mean what you think, there is more." A 'few years pass and Matey, her mother dead, goes to the little Quaker village of Rustdorf to receive a legacy left to her by her father's cousin. A long visit to the new found relatives of her father saw at its close Matey's engagement to Adrian Fort, the honest staid son of the banker of Rustdorf. Priscilla received with consternation the news of her sister's intended marriage while in Italy where she was chaperoning a party of American girls. When Priscilla and Matey met, later, the long-awaited freedom to speak as they felt came for the first time. Priscilla and Francis, not understanding their sister's choice of a lover urge her to reconsider the matter. Matey married Adrian and a wedding trip was taken to Europe. The meeting with Madame Vinet and her family was a joy to Matey; Adrian's pleasure came in visiting the art galleries he had dreamed of so long. Life at Rustdorf was uneventful and bare in many ways. Matey learned the sterling values of the many quaint lives of the community. After several summers Priscilla, tired with the strain of her teaching activities, came to spend the summer with Matey. Into the life of the LESSON DEPARTMENT village she fitted with surprising ease. At the end of a second summer's visit, Priscilla found a home as mother to the children of an old friend of Adrian's father. At first Matey resented Priscilla's marriage, but later she understood the beauty of her sister's love. Matey again had to admit she did not understand all of life's values. Complacent and secure, Matey continued for many years in her life as wife and mother, accepting love as a gift and homage as a duty. Then came news of the World War shattering the poise of mankind. Matey and Adrian waited anxiously for news of their friends in France. After several months the Forts decided to go to France. Matey and the children went to stay with Madame Vinet; Adrian went to the front to serve as an ambulance driver. The days were busy and anxious ones. Furloughs were eagerly awaited. The tragedy of war is a tragedy of shaken faith. Adrian returned from the fighting lines with his faith in the human race shattered. Little by little the tiny fortune left to Matey by cousin Constance was used to. Aid suffering and distress. At last the war was over and the cry for home issued from many hearts. Matey and her little band were soon homeward bound. Home at last; loved ones waiting had the table laid for supper. So life was picked up again by all. Matey slowly realized her task, the re-creation of Adrain's faith in the world. The war, a mistake of men, was not all, there was more. It was the lesson she had learned about her Father and Mother. He must 633 know "'there is no small or great in what was true." By his side at work and play she must stand. The belonging together was the tie that would stand up even in the face of death. In all her works Dorothy Canfield gives expression to the truth: "The medium for the communication of the Spirit is not words but Life." Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Litterature, Macy, Chapters 35, 47. 2. "The Flowering Wilderness," Galsworthy. "One More River," Galsworthy. 3. "The Deepening Stream," Fisher. B. Program: 1. Reading: Selection "Home Fires in France," Fisher. 2. Discussion: a. The Novel a Social Record. B. John Galsworthy, Novelist. C. Dorothy Canfield Fisher, Mother and Author. 3. Review: a. "The Flowering Wilderness" or b. "The Deepening Stream." C. Objective: The lesson is planned to present the contemporary novel as a social record. Editor's Note: "The Flowering Wilderness" or 'The Deepening Stream" may be used. It is not intended that both novels shall be reviewed in detail. Social Service (Fourth Week in December) ROBERT OWEN AND FACTORY. REFORMS We come now to the study of a man who pioneered the way in factory reforms in England, who made the lot of factory workers everywhere a little less unendurable than it was and less than it would now be if he had not lived. Robert Owen, of course, was more than a reformer of factory 'work; he was a pioneer in social reform on a large scale; but we shall here be concerned only with his efforts to improve working conditions in the English factory. 1. The Industrial Revolution In order, however, to understand the work of Robert Owen in this aspect, it is necessary for us to learn just how it was that his work became so imperative in his time. The necessity arose out of what is called in social history the Industrial Revolution, but what might better be termed the Industrial Evolution. Before 1760 England was an agricultural commonwealth. With the exception of such towns as London, which then had a population of fewer than one hundred thousand inhabitants, people lived in small towns and villages, with a county government. Spinning and weaving were done in the home or in the house of a small master?the spinning by the women and the weaving by the men. Manufacturing divided the time of the workers with the cultivation of small tracts of land. Moreover, the manufacture of cloth was carried on, not with a view to profit, but rather for the purpose of use and exchange. Thus England was a land of peasants. But. Between the year 1733 and the year 1785 there took place a ? series of discoveries and inventions that altered the face of things for Englishmen and for the world. In 1733 John Kay invented the flying shuttle; in 1770 the spinning jenny by Hargreaves came into use; in the period covered by the years 1769 to 1775 Richard Arkwright perfected the roller spinning frame, which was operated by water power; in 1779 came the mule, invented by Samuel Crompton, which enabled the English worker to compete in the manufacture of delicate muslin with the deft fingers of the East Indian. The power loom, by Cartwright, was invented in 1785. With the discovery of the use of steam, by Watt, in 1769, the factory was able to increase its output by substituting steam power for water power; and then factories moved from the banks of various streams into the town and the city. In addition coal was used instead of charcoal?which speeded up the production of this fuel from 68,000 tons in 1788 to 1,347,000 tons in 1839. The instrumentalities of the industrial revolution in England were thus complete. One can almost guess the effect of this change in industry. In the first place, England was no longer an agricultural commonwealth, but an industrial and agricultural nation. In the second place, new problems of government and society arose, which it took a long time to solve properly, so quickly did they spring up. Before that, no provision had been made in the counties for the government of cities ? at least in counties where there were no large towns. And so political government had to adjust itself to the changing LESSON DEPARTMENT situation. In the third place, competition entered into the manufacturing business. The industry became a profit-making affair. Hence the factory owner sought by every expedient to reduce his costs, in order to increase his profit. Thus cheap labor, child labor, and factory hazards became common. In the fourth place, industry tended more and more to concentrate in large, populous districts, and hence the large city with its slums, its tenement houses, and unsanitary conditions in certain of the poorer quarters. It was this last that aroused the interest of Robert Owen in labor conditions in connection with the factory. 2. Salient Facts in Owen's Life Robert Owen was born in Newton, Wales, in 1771, of Welsh parents. He died in 1858 at the age of eighty-seven, after having become one of the most important figures in the social development of English life and after having influenced very greatly the life of the factory worker in other nations. He must have been, even as a child, unusually intelligent. For before he was ten years old he was chosen to aid his teacher in the school and was trusted at that age to go to London to make his way in the world. The industrial revolution was then at its height in England. His native intelligence is further indicated by the fact that he overcame all the disadvantages of his early environment. His father was a tradesman, and all his relatives either tradesmen or farmers, without any social prestige of any sort. The school which he attended as a child could teach him no more than the rudiments of learning. And he was born, as already stated, in a remote 635 country village in Wales. From ten to eighteen he was a shop-boy or assistant, first in Stamford, then in London, and finally in Manchester. He must therefore have possessed some strong personal qualities to have risen to the station he occupied in the thought and the life of the English speaking people everywhere. When he was eighteen, he borrowed five hundred dollars and set himself up in the manufacturing business, and when he was twentynine he became head of the cotton mills in New Lanark, then the largest and best-equipped in Great Britain. Says one of his numerous biographers:' "Owen's career up to this point is a typical romance of commerce?an adventure of the industrial revolution after the hearts of the apostles of self-help and capitalistic abstenance, well fitted to point a Victorian moral or adorn an economic tract. One expects it to end with Owen amassing a vast fortune, dying a baronet at least, and founding a great "house," with probably a seat in the Lords and a prescriptive right to order other folk about. But, in fact, Owen has never been a favorite theme for the economic tractmakers. For the story goes quite in the wrong way. "Owen made a fortune at New Lanark; but he valued his' position there, not as a means of money-making, for which he cared hardly at all, but as the chance of his life for putting into practice certain ideas which from boyhood had been developing in his mind.. He saw everywhere around him the miseries and cruelties which attended the industrial revolution, especially in its earlier stages. He saw men, women, and children maimed, stunted, and demoralized by the slavery of the new factories, condemned to work impossibly long hours under incredibly vile and unhealthy conditions, treated not as human beings, but as mere instruments for the accumulation of riches. This whole bad business seemed to him not only wrong and indefensible in itself, but also quit unnecessary even as a means to money-making. "I can make manufacturing pay" he said to himself, and was soon to say to others, "without reducing those 636 whom I employ to misery and moral degradation." Owen's apprenticeship in business was of a nature to give him a varied experience, and prepared him excellently for his later work. With his first employer, a Mr. McGuffog, a haberdasher, he came in contact with county-folk. This was in Stamford. At his second employers', Flint and Palmer, in a London clothing house, he learned to deal with city-folk on a cash basis. His third employer, a Mr. Scatterfield, a retail clothier in Manchester, he became acquainted with the principle of buying on credit. During this time he read a great deal, as his time would permit, and, with McGuffog especially, he acquired the habit of punctuality in meeting obligations when due and methods of careful bookkeeping. Since all three merchants dealt with different kinds of goods, he received an all-round training and became a good judge of fabrics. In each case he left his employer voluntarily to follow a desire he had to get on in the world, as if he had in mind exactly what he was to be and to do. At eighteen, as we have already stated, he launched out for himself in the manufacturing business. It would be tedious to follow his rise from position to position. Besides, that is not necessary. It is sufficient to say that he rose from one managerial place to another and from part ownership to full ownership of factories, always seeking to apply his principles of group-life?sometimes with, but often without, the consent and cooperation of his partners in the business, at such times as he had partners. New Lanark, in Scotland, is chiefly notable in connection with his experiments to improve the lot of factory workers. Of greater interest, however, is it *Robert Owen (Cole), 1925, p. 12. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE to know the kind of man Robert Owen was and what were his chief ideas on education. Once he was in partnership with -a Mr. Drinkwater. Mr. Drinkwater, it seems, was anxious to make an alliance with a Mr. Oldknow, a rich manufacturer, by marrying his daughter. It seems also that a partnership with Owen would not be the best thing for him under the circumstances. So Drinkwater sent for Owen to talk the matter over. Owen, however, having suspected what was in the wind, put the contract in his pocket and went into the office of the senior partner. Drinkwater put his proposition to abrogate the partnership?which was then more prospective than real. Thereupon Owen said: "I have brought the agreement with me, and here it is, and I now put it into the fire, because I never will connect myself with any parties who are not desirous to be united with me; but under these circumstances I cannot remain your manager with any salary you can give me." And so he left, with no prospect whatever of anything else to do. Later, after two or three years had elapsed and he had joined two rich men in the Chorlton mills, he refused to make articles which would compete with Drinkwater, whom he had left under the circumstances we have just given. On the contrary, he specialized in the manufacture of such articles as would not come into competition with those made by his old employer and partner. "There is not, I think," says Cole, "a single incident in Owen's whole career in which he tried to injure, or even showed himself angry with, any human being." His educational theory was very decided and simple. Our qualities, he thought, are given us by nature, but the direction which these qualities take is given us by society. Accordingly, he directed to the extent he was able that such environment should obtain in all his factory towns as would make for the best development of the people living there. But since, however, childhood and youth are the period of greatest growth in character-formation, it followed, he believed, that the utmost care should be exercised to see that proper educational facilities were placed at the disposal of children and young persons. 3. Owenism in Action In 1798, when he was twenty-seven and looked younger, Owen visited Scotland, for the purpose of making some new business connections. He was then a partner in the Chorlton mills in Manchester, England. Asked by Miss Anne Caroline Dale, whom he was to marry the next year, to visit her father's cotton mills in New Lanark, he did so, afterwards remarking to a friend that "of all the places I have yet seen, I should prefer this in order to try an experiment I have long contemplated, and have wished to have an opportunity to put in practice." The establishment, we are told, then "consisted of a primitive manufacturing Scotch village and four mills for spinning cotton." Owen decided to acquire the property?in association, of course, with his present partners, for at the time he had only about fifteen thousand dollars. After prolonged negotiations the Chorlton Twist Co. Bought the New Lanark mills for approximately three hundred thousand dollars, payable in installments of fifteen thousand dollars a year. In January, 1800, Owen, now married, took up his residence in the Scottish town. New Lanark mills had been founded in 1782, by David Dale and Richard Arkwright, but, two years later, the partnership was dissolved, and 637 Dale became full owner. As a matter of fact, he was what is called a benevolent employer, for he had paid his workers once when the mills had burned down and they were unemployed, he had provided for the education of the workers' children, and he had supplied goods to the workers more cheaply, through a store of his own, than they could otherwise have bought them. And he had done this in spite of the fact that he seldom visited the mills himself. Conditions there were typically bad. "Drunkneness and immorality were very prevalent; thieving was common in every department of the works; housing conditions were disgusting, and filth was everywhere, both in the houses and in the streets of the village. The people were, indeed, for the most part very religious; but they belonged to many rival and disputing sects, so that they quarrelled fiercely, and seemed to consider their religion a sufficient excuse for the living of evil lives.'"" There were between seventeen and eighteen hundred men, women, and children in New Lanark then, of whom more than four hundred were between five and ten years of age, although these were officially given as being from seven to twelve. All worked thirteen hours a day, even the children, with an hour and fifteen minutes for meals. The great majority of families, no mater how large, occupied but a single room. Acting on his theory that environment is made for and not by the individal, he first looked to the physical conditions in the factory and in the village. He rearranged the machinery, enlarged the houses by adding another story, and 'laid out the streets with an eye to both beauty and cleanliness. He abolished all the "Robert Owen (Cole), p. 71. These are Owen's own words and may be colored somewhat, Cole thinks, 638 privately owned whiskey shops, and established stores owned by the firm, in which a "better grade" of whiskey was sold. Buying everything on a large scale, as he says, he was able to sell the workers supplies at twenty-five per cent less than they had been paying; and all these articles were of the best grade. Sanitation, also, attracted his attention. As stated, each family now had two rooms. He did away with the practice of dumping refuse in the streets; this was now carted away periodically. Health visitors saw to it that the inside of houses was kept clean. After that came the conduct of workers in the factory. Theft, which was common, was overcome by a careful system of checks. "He reduced the hours of work to ten and a half, or twelve including mealtimes, at the beginning of 1816, provided free medical attendance for all, started a Sick Club and a Savings Bank, threw open the woods as a public pleastre-ground, and in general pursued his course as by far the most enlightened employer of his time. But he did even more for the children. It will be remembered that his theory of education was that it was the children's, not the adult's, environment which most needed to be created or changed. And here he put his theory into practice. No child was employed till it reached the age of ten. Up to that age it spent its time in school. In summer its education was carried on in the open air, and the system included singing, dancing, music, and, in the case of boys, military exercises. For the children over ten, there were evening schools; and for adults "accommodations for reading, writing, accounting, sewing, playing, talking, and walking, as well as regular lectures, dances, and concerts in the hall of the institution. No restraint RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE was placed on private judgment or religious'opinion." It is curious that he believed wickedness and misery "have proceeded solely from the ignorance of our forefathers." All this was accomplished gradually. Owen did not believe in sudden revolutions. It took twenty-eight years to bring about these changes, during which he had, at first, to combat the ill-will of his employees. He did not believe in force, but only persuasion. Only toward the beginning was he handicapped by lack of money. Moreover, during the years from 1813 to 1828 he became a public character, mainly on account of the fact that he was able to make money and at the. Same time treat his workers with humanity. In consequence people came from almost every country to study his ideal factory town, New Lanark. Questions ? 1. Compare child labor in Owen's time with our present child labor laws. 2. At what age may children be legally employed, according to the school law of your community? 3. What is the difference between child labor and children's work? 4. A form of unemployment insurance was instituted when the workmen at New Lanark were paid on the burning of the mill and they were unemployed through no fault of their own. Unemployment insurance is now a national issue. Discuss the Wagner-Lewis bill, introduced in the Congress in February, 1934. (See Graphic Survey for March, 1934.) Discuss these topics, introduced by Owen: (a) Health officials (who made the visits?); (b) Reduction of hours of work; (c) free medical care; (d) sick benefits; (e) savings; (f) recreation; (g) education, both child and adult; (h) environment, LESSON DEPARTMENT Discuss the comparative value of human beings and money, as emphasized by Owen. In what way were his policies and system spread to other countries and communities. 639 What is industrial insurance? Workmen's compensation? Are workmen in your community covered by these provisions? Mission Lessons LESSON III]. HEALTH AND HOME NURSING FEVER AND CONTAGION "Prevention is better than cure." FEVER Buy a fever thermometer and learn how to read it. Shake the mercury down below 97 degrees. After cleansing the thermometer properly in cold water and alcohol, place the bulb under the patient's tongue, leave it there for three minutes. If the patient is unconscious do not take the temperature by mouth. Johnny's stomach ache may be appendicitis, especially if it is accompanied by a fever. Know how high the fever goes instead of worrying about it. Some mothers take fevers for granted. One will say, "Mary had a fever yesterday." Then you see Mary outside playing with yesterday's warning signal forgotten. Fever may usher in almost any disease. Some people run a high fever from slight causes; others though acutely ill, manifest little change in temperature. Certain types of fever are characteristic of certain diseases?the high irregular up and down curve of influenza, or ear infections; the afternoon rise in tuberculosis; the continuous high fever of typhoid and pneumonia; the low fever of minor infections of the nose and throat. Fever affects people differently. One is made restless, irritable and wakeful, another may be quite drowsy, and sleep all the time. The skin becomes hot to the touch, while the feet and hands are cold. The patient is very thirsty, and usually makes repeated demands for water. The eyes may be bright or dull and listless; usually there is no evidence of perspiration. After some days of fever the lips become cracked or crusted. The mouth is dry and the tongue coated. The urine is often concentrated, dark in color, with a strong odor. These are some of the symptoms of fever, but the true test of the condition is the thermometer. The normal temperature of the body is ninety-eight and four-tenths degrees. There may be in good health a slight variance either way, but if the mercury on the thermometer, after being placed under the tongue for the proper length of time, registers much above the little arrow, we say that the person has a fever. We must never guess at fever by placing our hand upon the patient's head. The temperature should be read accurately by means of the thermometer and a notation made, as well as the time of taking the temperature. Fever is really a protective process. We are not so much interested in the fever itself, but rather in the disease that produces the fever. It has been proven that fever kills germs and already in some of the hospitals there are electrical ma  chines which will produce artificial fever in a person to help cure the disease. Let us no longer, then, be frightened by moderate degrees of temperature. If the temperature is not over 100 degrees in children, it is not excessive, and there is no particular cause for alarm. Fever is only a symptom of disease and not a cause, and may even be friendly. Babies, very young children, and adults who are unconscious or very sick should have their temperature taken by rectum by placing the bulb of the thermometer, after it has been well greased with vasoline or olive oil, in the rectum. Let us remember that temperatures taken in the rectum are always one degree higher than temperatures taken by the mouth under the same condition. We should always designate to the doctor not only the amount of fever present, but as to whether or not it was a mouth or rectal temperature. Generally with the increase in temperature there are two other signals of trouble, namely?a rapid pulse and too frequent breathing. It is still best to take the pulse on the thumb side of the inner portion of the wrist, and we should count it for one whole minute. The pulse varies during the different ages of life. In infants it may be as frequent as one hundred and thirty times per minute; in children under ten years of age it runs normally around ninety beats per minute; in adults we may be able to count anywhere from sixty to seventy-five beats per minute and still be well within the range of normal. The same disease which produces a high fever also increases the pulse rate, and this rate should be recorded at the same time the temperature is taken. When we are resting quietly, our breathing, if we count the respirations for one minute, would be about eighteen. Fever, like running or excitement, increases the number of respirations per minute, and in some lung diseases this increase may be very marked. Let us remember then that three of the danger signals of illness are fever, rapid pulse and hurried breathing. The patient, unless she be too ill, too young, or too nervous will further assist us by telling us definitely how she feels, the location of the pain or the distress and the presence or acuteness of tenderness. Tenderness, we should remember, is pain in any part, produced by pressure. If the temperature is above one hundred degrees, the patient should be put to bed and in all but the very simple cases the Doctor should be called to help us find the cause of the trouble. As a detective of illness, we must observe all?the eyes, the skin, the mouth and throat, the cough, the voice, the bowels and the mental condition. These will help us to run down the fugitive disease. If we make our notations on a piece of paper: the pulse rate, the temperature, and the breathing, counting each for one full minute and recording the same, recording also the time and date the observations were made, such a simplified home record will be of great benefit to the Doctor, if we need help later on. It is not for us to remember even the names of all the diseases that produce fever; rather let us remember a few of the important things to do for the fever patient until help arrives. First?Put the patient to bed, if possible away from the rest of the family, in a clean, well lighted room. Second?A warm sponge bath may be given for cleanliness. A hot foot bath is always good, and a couple of tablespoonfuls of mustard, previously stirred to a uniform cream, in a cupful of hot water, helps the foot bath. If the patient is very LESSON DEPARTMENT sick, such a foot bath may be given in bed. Towels wrung out of cold water and placed over the eyes and forehead, are helpful. If the patient is chilling use plenty of blankets on the bed and hot water bottles. Hot water bottles' should never be more than half filled, and always wrapped in cloth and never allowed to come in contact with the patient's skin. The diet should be light; fruit juices, a little milk toast, some clear soup, a little jello or a little ice cream. It is better to be very sparing with the diet and very generous with the fluids. Water in small quantities at frequent intervals is more important to the fever patient than food. Laxatives should not be given, especially if the patient complains of abdominal pain. Pain is always a danger signal. Small warm enemas, not over a quart, and repeated if necessary, are safer than laxatives. Sunlight is a powerful disinfectant and a valuable aid toward recovery. The sun is as beneficial to the human body as to the growing plant and is needed in every sick room. Contagion The great challenge to our civilization today is the contagious disease. It is to be hoped that in the near future, the contagious disease will be no more. From one single case of contagious disease, if not well guarded, there may follow hundreds. Smallpox, the scourge of a hundred years ago, has been whipped completely. Its presence now is only a curiosity and a testimony that someone evaded vaccination. Typhoid fever depends upon contaminated food and in communities where the water and milk supply are safe, this disease is rare. In the presence of an epidemic, boil the water and milk; and cook the vegetables. Remember that typhoid vac641 cination will save you from this dreaded disease. Diphtheria, which can choke a child to death: in less than twentyfour hours, still stalks about. We can now immunize our children against this dreaded disease. Such immunization is not painful, it is sure, and we hope will eventually stamp out this disease. Measles and whooping cough still thrive, and are always present. Over ninety per cent of all persons have these diseases some time in their lives. Parents should carefully guard young children against exposure and not forget that the younger the child, the more fatal the disease is apt to be. Scarlet Fever is one of the most dangerous diseases of childhood, and may so weaken the body that other serious diseases follow. A sore throat is apt to be the first complaint. The scarlet rash may follow three days later. Beware of any person with sore throat. Pneumonia, tuberculosis and influenza still claim their victims, and leave destruction in their wake. Against these agents, there are no specific remedies. A healthy body aids in protection. Necessary, sufficient, and suitable food, adequate sleep and rest, fresh air and exercise, proper protection against cold and wet, all of these combine to build up protection against disease. Radiant health should be the objective. Tuberculosis, which once occupied first place among the causes of death in America, has now moved back to seventh place. Better hygiene, fresh air, sunshine and good food have helped bring this condition about. More important, however, in the fight against Tuberculosis, is the education of the people to the value of early diagnosis of the disease. Tuberculosis causes Tuberculosis?every case comes from another?early discovery, early recovery. Watch for these danger signs?too easily tired, loss of weight, indigestion, and the cough that hangs on. Persons who suffer from insufficient food, exposure, and bad housing, long hours and bad conditions of work, are more prone to the disease. An ounce of fresh air is still worth more than a pound of cough syrup. Cough is the policeman of the lung. A long continued cough, with loss of body weight and an evening rise in temperature are danger signals of impending calamity. It cannot be too strongly emphasized that the chief agent in the spread of disease is man himself. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE The care of the Tubercular patient is very important. It is necessary to use sputum cups and all the discharges from the nose and throat must be burned. He must have his own dishes, and towels, and live apart from other members of the family. Tuberculosis is one of the sputum born diseases, and can be controlled by individual action, and cleanliness, since it is a germ disease. The human hand is the great carrier of disease germs, both to and from the body. Unclean hands must be kept away from the mouth. Our public agencies are doing much to keep our food and drink free from disease contamination. We have only our hands and our homes to keep clean.