Food Facts and Fancies ) By Ethel C. Butt American Medical Association, L. B. Mendel, the veteran nutritionist, sounded this note of warning against food fads: "There is no field of practical importance related to human well-being in which there is greater opportunity for dogmatism and quackery, for pseudo science and unwarranted prescriptions and proscriptions, than in the domain of our daily diet. Those who have seen the pendulum of enthusiasm swing from one extreme food fad to another in the course of the years will be wary. Let them keep an open mind without becoming too reactionary to notice that our food habits do change." How strange that there should be a need for such a warning in this land where there are so many sources for obtaining food facts. A considerable time of the sixty-one agricultural experiment stations scattered throughout the United States is devoted to research in problems of food and nutrition, either directly or incidentally. Practically all of the important universities and colleges have their food research laboratories. Scores of commercial concerns keep trained experts working on food problems. Then there are the many medical and other scientific associations, clinics, schools, physicians, each continually contributing to the fund of information. From Germany, France, England and other countries also come many scientific journals which record the research carried on in these lands. Food fallacies are probably as old as the human race. There are traces of them in some of the earliest records known. Much of the medical literature from the time of Hippocrates is well punctuated with unsubstantiated dietetic dictums. Strange theories were built up regarding the properties of various foodstuffs, in which mysterious powers or dangers were attributed to each. Before the advent of modern chemistry and physiology, man did not know what happened to the food he consumed, and could only guess the effect that it had on him. Under those conditions there was an excuse for food fallacies. But even if our great grandmothers did give an emetic after the tomato (alias the deadly love apple) had been eaten, or if they did empty the dangerous water in which vegetables had been cooked, into the farthest corner of the garden, they could not be much farther from the truth than some of our fasting fanatics of the newspaper columns of today. Probably more food facts have been uncovered in the last three decades than in all the centuries that have gone before. And these facts have not rusted in unpublished manuscripts. Never before has there been such a deluge of food information as has poured out of the press during the last twenty years in the form of magazine articles, pamphlets, bulletins, newspapers and books. Along with these the colleges, public schools, clinics, doctors and lecturers have all helped to broadcast such information as came within their vision. Along with the facts, however, there is often a fringe of speculation which may in FOOD. FACTS the minds of certain enthusiasts sprout and bear such luscious fruits of imagination that the unsuspecting public is dazzled by the sight, and is led to think that here at last is the perfect theory of nutrition. All previous knowledge was but chaff. The process is very simple. The scientific worker announces the bare facts in a technical journal. Next the doctor tries it on a few of his patients and the newspapers syndicate a dramatic account of the discovery. As soon as possible the commercial concerns begin to exploit it and the quack twists the facts to fool his public. Thus may arise the various fashions in foods—the wave of enthusiasm for calories gives way to one of vitamines, or acid foods yield to alkali ones. In climbing a mountain, the nearest peak appears to be the highest, but once scaled, others are likely to be discovered beyond. It takes a well-trained, patient individual to climb the mountain of modern nutrition, and to see all the food facts in their proper relation. We have individuals who know considerable about nutrition, but most of them make so little noise as compared with our know-all faddists that the public tends to secure most of his information from those who know least about the science of nutrition. It is much safer to hitch one's dietetic wagon to a guide such as Sherman of Columbia than to a Hollywood star. The fasting cure for human ills appears to have been one of the most popular fads of recent times. One writer tells his readers that a fast of a week to ten days will cure practically everything — paralysis, heart trouble, cancer, tuberculosis, boils and so on ad finitum. One disgusted reader of this doctor's (D. C. AND FANCIES 603 and not Ph. D. Or M. D. As the unsuspecting reader imagines) advice, remarked that he believed that this chiropractor who has jumped into the wrong pasture, would recommend fasting for a broken leg. Some of this quack's followers have been reported to have been so weakened by fasting that they have had to be carried into hospitals when they have finally decided to seek professional help. A short, occasional fast may be as good for the body as it is for' the soul, or as a means of passive resistance, but how many premature graves are dug each year for misguided sufferers who waste precious time with food faddists? A close second to the fad of fasting is the weight-reducing craze that has flooded the land in the past few years. There may have been as much good as evil in this fashion, but when carried to the extreme, as it has been in so many cases, one can hardly help but wonder how much harm it has done to pregnant or nursing mothers, or to the rapidly growing children and youths. Flora B. Floore reported that an analysis of the Hollywood eighteen day diet showed it to be extremely low in calories—too low for the body to make a satisfactory adjustment to the deficiency. It was also very low in proteins, deficient in calcium, phosphorus, iron and vitamin "A." In fact it was "entirely unsatisfactory and lacking in the principles that help to keep us well and strong." There are some strange statements made over the radio about the two foodstuffs, starch and sugar. An uninformed listener might glean the 'idea that these things are actually poisonous, instead of being very satisfactory fuel foods when used properly. If we wish to go faster in an automobile, we step on the gas, and the same method is equally efficacious when we use fuel in the body to increase the output of work of this human machine. If we do more work than that in the sedentary occupations, whether it is heaving potato sacks or playing football, we need more of the energy foods in the form of sugar if for quick action or of starch for a more prolonged activity. In the healthy body these greatly maligned foods are burned up in the working process and enable the body to use them without so much ash carrying as is necessary with certain other foods. Starch and sugar, however, should be used as accessory foods and not be allowed to take the place of the necessary, but more expensive building foods. These carbohydrates are best used in the natural state as found in fruits, grains and vegetables, thus insuring an accompanying supply of mineral salts and vitamins. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE DR. WILLIAM C. ROSE says that one of the most misleading and inaccurate precepts of the food quack is the statement that two kinds of food must not be eaten at the same meal. Odd, isn't it, that nature made such elaborate preparations in the digestive system for taking care of such mixtures. Odd also, that our ancestors survived when they didn't know how to pull their grains apart and eat only the starch or protein, one at a time. We have lived down some of the old theories—for instance the one that fruit and milk combinations are harmful—but due to the grip that the faddists have on the popular mind of today, it appears that two fallacies have grown where only one existed before. Yet few of us will contradict the statement of Dr. Rose that "The majority of food faddists are fakers of the worst sort. Their unscrupulous methods are matched only by their monumental ignorance of nutrition."