Bits of Philosophy By Nephi Jensen Pride is paralysis of the soul. Sophistication is not education. Character is better than cunning. Meanness is the mother of misery. Where policy begins principle ends. Incitement is better than excitement. Joy living is better than joy riding. A smile is the sunshine of good nature. Purity of heart is the soul of culture. It is better to be clean than to be clever. Honest playing is better than false praying. The character builder is the master builder. Wisdom is just horse sense, right on the job. A golden heart is better than a silver tongue. The hearthstone is the touchstone of civilization. A little hell is good for you if it is not home made. Purity of heart is the only fountain of eternal youth. He is richer than the rich who does not envy the rich. He who is ashamed of the poor, is poorer than the poor. It is hard to be nice to people who think they are nice. An idle life begins with a giggle and ends with a grunt. Where selfish gratification begins, sweet gratitude ends. Purity, peace and power are the enduring riches of heaven. Patchwork Quilts are Revived By the Depression By Elizabeth Cannon Porter The depression, with more leisure and less money, has revived our grand-mothers' art of patch-work quilt making. "To salvage beauty and usefulness from coarse waste materials was the everyday accomplishment of our pioneer mothers who hooked rugs and pieced quilts," says Ruby Short McKim. She continues: "Some way we are apt to think of the quilt makers as mature or even old, but a second thought assures us they were often merely girls. Pioneer movements are not sponsored by those who have passed life's meridian. It takes youth, with its unspoiled imaginings to blaze trails, to leave the family hearth for the open road, to hazard security for chance. So most of the families who surged their way westward were young as the civilization which they were formulating. A. Girl-wife, driving an ox team, with her firstborn held close in her strong young arms or under her stronger young heart, was the heroine of the day. Not that they called her a heroine then; no; but her timid sister who stayed with 'pa and ma' back in York State or Ca'lina may have spent the rest of her spinster days in envying willful Emily who rode away with John. "And the story of their wanderings, their few original possessions, their accumulations, the friendships formed, their abiding. Faith and the home established, is the story of patchwork quilts." Suggestive of the trek westward are some of the names of the designs: Indian Hatchet, Log Cabin. Road to California, Texas Treasure, Virginia Star, Arkansas Traveler, Oklahoma Boomer, Kansas Troubles, Cactus Basket, Prairie Queen, Delectable Mountains, Mexican Rose, Rising Sun, Wagon Tracks, Coxey's Camp, and World's Fair. Interpolations are the "Drunkard's Path" and the '""Dutchman's Puzzle." Another group has the tang of the sea: Square and Compass, Ship's Wheel, Ocean Wave, Storm At Sea, Fishhook, and Crossed Canoes. Nature's influence on these early day settlers that carved their homes out of the wilderness is reflected in such designs as: Bear's Paw, Bird's Nest, Shoo Fly, Dove in the Window, Honey Bee, Snail's Trail, Spider Web, Milky Way and Goose in the Pond. Reflections of the life of the period are found in such designs as Baby's Blocks, Beggar Block, Broken Dishes, Churn Dash, Corn and Beans, Crazy Ann, Flower Pot, Mill Wheel, Grandmother's Fan, Spools, Weathervane, Monkey Wrench, Necktie and Jack in the Box. The religious element crept in with Jacob's Ladder, Hosannah and "Rob Peter to Pay Paul." Imagination romantically inclined suggested the Album, Wedding Ring, King's Crown, Old Maid's Puzzle, Steps to the Altar and Friendship Ring. Foreign origins produced the Arabic Lattice, Irish Cross, English Flower Garden, Swastika, and French Bouquet. From the woods came Maple, Hickory, and Palm Leaves, also Pine Trees. Colorful were Cherry Baskets and Lafayette Orange Peel. Many of the lovely appliqued designs bear the names of flowers: Hollyhock Wreath, Trumpet Vine, Noonday Lily, Rose of Sharon, Iris, Pansy, and the gorgeous Tulip. Gay nomenclatures too are Butterfly and Honeymoon Cottage. Most of the quilts were pieced of calico. Chintz came from the India Chintzes brought over from India by the East India Trading Company. Among these were the "Persian Pear which women called the pickle pattern, or gourds, peacock feather designs, with pineapple, pomegranates, and certain exquisitely unreal but lavish flowers which all bespeak the Oriental influence." In making a quilt first select a design that appeals to you. Next work it out in as much color harmony as you can devise. Good, fade-proof materials are the most RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE economical in the long run. It is wonderful how many designs can be worked out with squares and triangles without going into the more intricate patterns. Blocks can be cut from strictly accurate patterns cut of cardboard or sandpaper. Needless to say stitches should be firm, small and as nearly perfect as possible. One bat of cotton will fill an ordinary lightweight quilt. Linings may be of unbleach, or a light colored material in harmony with the coloring of the quilt. Quilting is done on wooden frames. Lines may be outlined by a ruler, or special cardboard designs used as markers for the fine quilting stitches. For quickly made "tied" quilts old soft woolen or cotton blankets may be used for "filling." The making of a home-made quilt is a labor of joy. A patchwork quilt is a work of art to be handed down as an heirloom. My Neighbor's Garden By Letitia Chambers Ridges It's a lovely little garden In the middle of the block, And a charming little lady In her dainty, pretty frock Has a cheery smile of welcome To those who're passing by To come in and learn the secrets, The how, the when and why. The perfume from that garden Permeates the country round, And the busy bees a humming Make a pleasing restful sound. The pansy bordered stepping stones Lead down to the end Where the roses in a riot Of lovely colors blend. The daffodils and tulips Are in their corner too, And the larkspur and delphinium With their lovely shades of blue. The stately gladiola With its glorious hues so rare And the asters and the zinnias Spread beauty everywhere. And from this lovely garden Kindly thoughts like blossoms fair Wing their way among the neighbors Leaving love and friendship there. And all these lovely colors Blend like a low sweet song. I cannot name the half of them 'T would make my rhyme too long. WHAT ARE YOU DOING TO MAKE SURE OF FINANCIAL INDEPENDENCE AT OLD AGE? A BENEFICIAL LIFE SAFETY-SAVINGS CONTRACT REMOVES THE GLOOM OF CLOUDS OF THE FUTURE?ELIMINATES WORRY AND GUARANTEES COMFORT FOR YOU AND YOUR LOVED ONES. "AS SAFE AS ANYTHING CAN BE HUMANLY POSSIBLE" DON'T WAIT AND BE SORRY, CONSULT A BENEFICIAL REPRESENTATIVE TODAY?YOU'LL BE PLEASANTLY SURPRISED AT THE LOW COST?THEN TOO YOU RECEIVE THOSE SPECIAL FEATURES CONTAINED ONLY IN BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY HEBER J. GRANT, PRESIDENT E. T. RALPHS. GEN. MGR. HOME OFFICE SALT LAKE CITY DIRECTORS HEBER J. GRANT GEO. J. CANNON B. F. GRANT A. W. IVINS E. T. RALPHS DAVID O. MCKAY J. REUBEN CLARK, JR. JOS. F. SMITH A. B. C. OHLSON