Notes from the Field Western States Mission: WE are in receipt of a very fine report from Sister Winnifred B. Daynes, Relief Society President of the Western States Mission. She furnished us a copy of the instructions which she sent out to her Mission and we feel that so much help is given in these items that we take pleasure in including them in our. Notes from the Field. "See: 1. That your organization is complete. 2. That your meeting room is clean and attractive and a fit place for the Spirit of God to dwell. 3. That you definitely plan and arrange your programs. 4. That there be the closest cooperation possible between your Presidency and the Branch Presidency, as in your work, the family welfare is so inseparably associated that there must be perfect harmony always existing. 5. That care and consideration shall be given to the aged, and that those appointed for this shall see that their work is effectively done. 6. That you use every effort possible to find work for the unemployed. It may be for either male or female. Wherever good can come as a result of this work, means of course, a reduction of your Welfare work. 7. That you be honest and prayerful, and take a genuine interest in your work that nothing will be found DENVER RELIEF SOCIETY NOTES FROM THE FIELD wanting, and that the interest of those over whom you preside is always first in your affections. 8. Safeguard your health so that you can put your best enthusiasm into your work. 9. Develop spirituality in your classwork, by having class leaders emphasize Latter-day Saint ideals in all of their classwork. 10. Begin and close your meetings on time; remembering that promptness and exactness are always essential to success. 11. Have appropriate song arranged for your singing practice; and, if possible, memorize the words of the songs that are practiced so that you may be able to sing more enthusiastically. 12. Have complete and intelligent minutes kept of all meetings; have them read at each meeting; and have them approved before finally being recorded; see that a record book of the approved style, is kept in your. Organization so that your minutes may always be preserved. 13. Encourage your visiting teachers to be regular attendants at all weekly meetings in the Relief Society; also to attend the Sacrament meeting. 14. See that no confidences which are given you are ever betrayed or broken; see to it that all gossip and the spirit of criticism is eliminated from your organization. 15. Be impressed with the need of discussing at all times, the Teachers' Topics in the home. 16. Increase membership, first, by personal visits; second, by telephone calls; third, by letters, invitations, etc. 17. To develop cordiality: a. Take pains to warmly greet newcomers, members and strangers. 619 b. Have a committee appointed to welcome newcomers. 18. Keep all records in a fireproof container; if nothing better, a tin bread box is suggested. 19. Have your magazines bound and begin to build your library. 20. Always have your meetings well prepared; see that proper publicity is given, and a good attendance assured. By keeping ourselves spiritually, mentally and physically fit, we will try to make this year the most profitable and the most successful Relief Society year in the history of the Western States Mission. Let each one join in bearing her responsibility that success may be assured; and where advice is needed °for your work, never be backward in seeking it." Southern States Mission: From quite another part of the missionfield we were delighted to receive greetings. The Relief Society department meetings were held in connection with the conference and the work for the coming year was discussed. Short talks from representative members of the organization on different phases of the work were a special feature and exceptionally well done. The work for the year was outlined and this included the social service program which we feel all the members thoroughly understood. At the first meeting there were 65 sisters present and the following day 56. This was a most excellent attendance when the great distance is considered. One sister traveled a distance of 400 miles, much of it on foot. All the women of the mission wish to express sincere appreciation for the magazine. "We have promised ourselves to read it from cover to cover, knowing 620 it is not only filled with an extended knowledge of desired material, but full of the real spirit of the Gospel, which is the essence of encouragement and real uplift for all. We expect it to be used for all lesson work. We do thank those who contribute to its beauty and strength and we RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE thank our Father in Heaven for this glorious work. In many of our humble homes our Church literature is all the reading material offered, and the magazine numbers were distributed in the homes of the members. We feel a real missionary work will be done." Oberlin College, O., Oct. 17th. 1895 J. R. Hindley, Esq. Dear Sir: We have in our College Library an original manuscript of Solomon Spaulding---unquestionably genuine. I found it in 1884 in the hands of Hon. L. L. Rice of Honolulu, Hawaiian Islands. He was formerly State Printer at Columbus, O., & before that publisher of a paper in Painesville, whose preceding publisher had visited Mrs. Spaulding & obtained the manuscript from her. It had lain among his old papers forty years or more, & was brought out by my asking him to look up antislavery documents among his papers, The manuscript has upon it the signatures of several men of Conneaut, O., who. Had heard Spaulding read it, & knew it to be his. No one can see it & question its genuineness. The manuscript has been printed twice at least---once by the Mormons of Salt Lake City, & once by the Josephite Mormons of Iowa. The Utah Mormons obtained the copy of Mr. Rice at Honolulu, & the Josephites got it of me after it came into my possession. This manuscript is not the original of the Book of Mormon. Yours very truly, A. S.