A SCENE IN THE UINTAHS OF UTAH Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon "THE tapestried glory of the hills, the fragrant tang of garnered fruits, the rustle of the fallen leaves bespeak the gladness of October days. ENA MADESIN PHILLIPS, president of the National Council of Women, sees danger signals and has issued a warning to women to battle for their rights. In the present economic distress the first move seems to be to oust women from both public and private employment. She protests such injustice. MRS. LOUISE Y. ROBISON, president of the Relief Society, was present at the protest mass meeting held in the Sorbonne, Paris, when women delegates from many nations united in claiming equal privileges for women in employment and professions. DOROTHY THOMPSON LEWIS, newspaper correspondent, was officially ordered out of Germany because in 1931 she wrote an adverse impression of Mr. Hitler. Dr. CAROLINE MILLS DAVIS who recently died was dearly loved for her broad charities and tender ministrations as well as her professional services. KATHLEEN NORRIS' book, "Victoria: A Book to be Read," gives glimpses of England's beloved queen from childhood to extreme old age. The play as the title indicates is not written for the stage. E. M. DELAFIELD'S "Provincial Lady in America," like her English "Provincial Lady," has greatly amused literary circles on both sides of the ocean. MARGUERITE CAMERON, a former Utahn, has written a book, "Discovering Los Angeles," which will be used as a textbook in the Los Angeles schools. MRS: JESSIE EWART HOUSE and Miss Phyllis McGinley, two Utah women, have each published a volume of poems this fall. MISS ALAIDA BOWLER has been appointed supervisor to the scattered Indian tribes of northern Nevada and superintendent of the Carson Indian school. As the "First Woman Indian Superintendent" she adds a new chapter to an already colorful career. DR. FLORENCE E. MEIJER, young woman scientist of the Smithsonian Institute, has discovered eight kinds of "killer" rays among the ultra-violet ray family which might affect the destiny of the human race. Her discovery is important in the study of how the different kinds of rays can aid or injure living things. Miss HELEN JACOBS, of Berkeley, Calif., for the third successive year, has won the women's national tennis championship. With this year's victory, Miss Jacobs equals the record of the tennis favorite, Helen Wills Moody, and gains permanent possession of the championship challenge cup. THE MARTIN JOHNSONS during their twenty months' air expedition through the dark continent discovered an African tribe of lake dwellers who believed themselves to be the only human beings on earth. Was this blissful ignorance?