AMERICAN FORK CANYON Everybody's Mother By Inez Rich Bennett It was evening. Nature, in robes of resplendent beauty, had turned the landscape into a charming picture of Springtime. Now, with dusk falling like a curtain over the scene, earth sought her rest, even as a tired child lies down to sleep.: Near a street corner in a little Southern Alberta town, a neatly-dressed woman, past fifty, grey-haired, blue-eyed, stout, with business-like tread and a pleasant kindly face, stopped on her homeward journey, beside a group of children playing hop-scotch. "Hello, everybody! Eddie, how's your mamma?" she asked a chubby little fellow on the side lines holding a handful of colored glass. "Oh, just fine,' he smiled. Then —'See what I got, Aunt Sarah! Glass! Ain't they pretty?" "Yes, dear, very. Don't cut your hand! Will you do something for Aunt Sarah?" "Sure!" "When you go home, tell your mamma that your Aunt Marion Allred has a fine baby boy." "Oh, goody!" He dropped the glass and ran toward home in happy excitement. Throwing kisses to the children the woman crossed the street and continued her journey. For several blocks she walked alone, save for her thoughts. There were still several blocks to go and, as evening descended myriads of stars shone in the heavens like diamonds. The woman noted everything about her. Heard the calls of mothers to their children to leave off play and retire; heard the chirpings of birds as they found resting places for the night, and trilled their goodnight songs. She loved nature—it always thrilled her that God had made such a marvelous earth for man to live upon. But a little while ago she had again witnessed the mystery of birth, had held in her arms another bit of baby loveliness; had lovingly placed it in it's mother's arms and seen tears of joy brighten the tired eyes as she asked, "Is he alright?" An affirmative answer had caused a halo of happiness to envelop the girl mother as she dropped to sleep. When she arrived home her children were busily studying their school work. Examinations were near. "Everything alright?' she asked, as she put her head in the door. "Yes, mother. How's the patient?" "Just fine! She has a bouncing boy. My, but they're happy! I told Bob to get a barrel and shout 'Daddy' into it to hear how it sounded." They all laughed. The phone rang and an excited voice asked, "Is Aunt Sarah there?" "Yes, just a moment please." After a brief conversation she turned to the children with, "I must go out again, dears, Mrs. Spencer's child is worse. You boys see that the mother hen with the biddies is covered for the night, get your lessons and go to bed early," she finished as she changed her apron and hurried out. "Mother looked so tired, it does seem as if somebody else could do a little running around besides her. I don't suppose she's even had her supper,' remarked her little daughter. EVERYBODY'S MOTHER "Oh, well," put in one of the boys, "you know mother. She's everybody's mother. Seems like she had enough to do before, but now she's president of the Relief Society she does twice as much. I'll tell you what, let's set the table for her and cover everything up like she does for us when we're late." So they bustled about and soon supper for one was spread and covered with a clean cloth. She returned tired out about 11:30 p. M. And said to herself as she opened her gate, "I'm really hungry now. I'd almost forgotten that I was too upset at Marion's to eat any supper. But I'm too tired now to fix anything." Entering the kitchen, she turned on the light, noted the bumpy white cover on the table, and removed it. She exclaimed softly, "Bless their hearts! They wouldn't forget me. And such a meal they have spread. What a God-send children are!" Refreshed after her meal, she mixed bread and prepared to retire. As was her wont when alone. Her thoughts drifted backward in recollections of earlier years and forward in contemplation of future problems. Her path was not "strewn with roses." When her husband died and left her with the children— three boys and a girl—to raise and educate, she felt the burden was too great to bear. There was no money, but they owned a warm, comfortable house large enough for their needs and free of debt. They were good children, considerate and ambitious and that made things easier. Her health was poor and she felt entirely incapable of any kind of work that would support her family. Years before, she had occasionally assisted local physicians with maternity cases, but when her health failed father had insisted that she give it up. However, after his death, with the farm not bringing in enough to support the little family, she decided to again take up the practice of nursing. While she was not a graduate nurse, her methods, carefully acquired from study and professional suggestion were approved by the physicians whom she assisted. Later she had opened her house as a private maternity home, upon receiving official recognition from health authorities and cared for maternity patients to help out the financial end of things. It was not easy, but then, she had often reflected, nothing worth doing was ever easy. At night she was usually too tired to rest well, but enough patients had come to the home-like little hospital to keep things going. In the midst of the struggle she had been asked to be president of the ward Relief Society. She felt wholly unqualified for the position, but gave her bishop an affirmative answer and plead with God for strength and wisdom to carry on successfully. Her cheerful optimistic attitude helped her over many rough spots. She submerged herself in her religious and nursing work to a degree that gave no time for self-pity. Always to her friends she was "Just fine!" no matter how she felt. Hers was a life of sacrifice and service, cheerfully and willingly given. Everyone loved her and she mothered the entire community. Friends and acquaintances lovingly called her "Aunt Sarah," a term significant of intimate associations and friendly relationships. Folks couldn't help being good to her, but often they were unintentionally thoughtless of the burden she bore when they might have helped so much. As she knelt beside her bed in prayer and asked her Father in Heaven for wisdom and divine guidance, she did not forget to voice gratitude for her many blessings. Busy weeks followed, crammed with activities in many branches of home, public and religious service. Mothers came to the little hospital suffering and empty handed and went away in due time with darling new babies and happy faces which still bore the aftermath of pain. Everyone was busy. The little town seethed with activity. Summer put on her loveliest gowns decked with gay flowers of every hue, tempting tired workers to hie away to woodlands cool and enjoy the out-of-doors. But, Aunt Sarah took no vacation. Too many folks needed mothering. It was she who went to the Walden home when Mrs. Walden died and comforted the heartbroken husband and sorrowing little ones, and fed and comforted them as no one else could. It was she who called her loyal Relief Society sisters to her side, and made the burial clothing, trimmed the white casket, and took charge of the funeral arrangements in cooperation with the bishop. And, when the funeral was over she and her counsellors went to the little home to comfort the saddened family, and, in the days to come rallied the Relief Society sisters in a sewing bee to provide clothing for the little motherless ones. No, she had no time for vacations, hardly time to admit even to herself that her old trouble was returning, that she was not well, that at times the pain was so intense she could hardly bear it. In her soul and body she suffered, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE but, to the world, she lifted a serene and smiling face. She was interested in everybody's welfare. On her journeyings to her "out" patients she called for a few moments on this or that one who needed cheering or helpful suggestions. Each passing hour life held for her something worth the doing, and each effort was recompensed with love and appreciation from those she served. She often said she had so many things to be thankful for that her little troubles seemed unimportant and insignificant in comparison to her privileges and blessings, One summer afternoon after a particularly trying case in the country she entered her gate with a feeling of loneliness. The children she knew were all away for the day. But the trees were full of birds that burst into song at 'her approach;. The flowers along the path seemed to nod a welcome; even the little calf staked on the grass in the backyard must have sensed her coming for he gave a loud call and ran the length of 'his tether, to be brought up with a jerk as he switched his tail and shook his head. No sooner had she opened the door than a wild shout of "Surprise"! Greeted her and a large group of happy-faced women surrounded her, chattering gaily. Such a joyous hour followed, and at its close she was presented with a vase of gorgeous flowers, from everybody's garden to Everybody's Mother.