VOL. XXI OCTOBER, 1934 No. 10 EDITORIAL Word of Wisdom We urge most strongly that our readers will do all in their power to uphold the Word of Wisdom. There are so many now who are drinking a little tea or coffee or are taking an occasional glass of beer. In a recent conference held at Oquirrh Stake,
President Grant said: "We are being called old fashioned and told we are too straight because we will not sanction the drinking of beer now that it has been legalized. We never will approve the drinking of beer. We will go right on being straight and telling the people to let beer alone despite the feelings of some members that we should condone the drinking of beer." President Grant emphasized that there never was a time when the Church needed to urge and stress the observance of the Word of Wisdom more than today. He said he would like to see the time when men and women who are not living the Word of Wisdom would be unable to hold positions of responsibility in this Church, because they cannot say, "follow me." They should be able to say this to everyone with whom they associate as officers of the Church. THE smoking evil has grown by leaps and bounds. It is painful to see how many women have become enslaved during the last few years. In 1914 I went to Europe. On the boat there was one woman who smoked. She was looked upon as a pariah. Today in crossing it is found that a big percentage of women smoke. It is said that women addicts are worse than men. They smoke more and the effect upon them is more injurious. It is a reflection on this people that so many of them smoke, for in addition to all the reasons against the pernicious practice that all people have, they have the word of God 622 declaring that tobacco is not good for man. LATTER-DAY SAINTS should not tamper with these forbidden things. Those who begin do not realize the effect it will have upon their moral fibre. Little by little there is a lowering of their standards until after a while they do things without hesitation that they would have shrunk from doing a short time before. Parents should teach their. Children the Word of Wisdom. The revelation should be re-read again and again. Careful attention should be paid to what it says and thus informed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE , people will not be led off on tangents by enthusiasts or cranks who put interpretations on it that are not the revealed word and that Church authorities do not sanction. People should arouse themselves and create public sentiment against the practice. The young should be instructed in the word of God and informed of the injurious effects of smoking. They should be impressed with the fact that this habit once. Formed enslaves them, and that it is a very difficult thing to stop. It requires strength to stand out from the crowd and refuse to do as they do. Every mother should be on her guard to safeguard her children from the evil.