The Fountain of Truth By Virgima C. Nelson ROM the man who bites his finger nails to the woman who always clears her throat before speaking, each of us has annoying habits of which even our best friends hesitate to tell us. The reason probably is that our friends have grown so accustomed to these outlandish mannerisms that they have become immune to their annoyance, and the habit, like the drip of a leaky faucet, soon fails to grate upon one's sensibilities. There are times when we see our friends and their failings in their true light; the times when we introduce the friends to a new group and become embarrassingly aware of their singularities; times when we run across friends after an absence of years and are unfavorably impressed with their peculiarities; or there are times when friends decide to run for political offices and elective positions, during which time the idiosyncrasies are aired, instead of spared. There are so many types of irregularities, that most everyone is guilty of some unbecoming mannerism or habit. It may be that of a raspy voice, a gauche walk, the trite use of slang, a face twitching, or a tendency to nudge. Some women peer over their spectacles in "a la celebrity" manner. Some men sniff, snort and snuffle and otherwise forget the uses of polite society. Some people have a habit of interrupting and never letting the speaker finish his remarks. Others annoy by answering questions not addressed to them, or sit in groups, nodding their heads, as though everything spoken, was directed especially to themselves. There are women who like to finger their beads or pat their fur neckpieces. All these habits have a way of becoming very obvious and irritating in either small groups or large audiences. Even to prate of these small things may seem like "straining at a gnat and swallowing a camel," when there are sins like dishonesty and laziness. But these little freak things often count for happiness or unhappiness. If it were only the mode to give and receive hints about individual pecularities at the moment of introduction to a stranger, how vivid would be the reactions! Just supposing I should remark to a new acquaintance, "T hope, my dear, that if we are to see a great deal of each other, you will not allow your mouth to sag down that away," and she should in turn reply, "It's a very kind of you to call it to my attention. In turn, may I suggest that your laugh is a trifle wheezy and not at all a good index of the charming personality I am sure you possess!" THAT these idiosyncrasies are remediable is proved by the fact that the possession of them is confined largely to the adults. In childhood and adolescence those freakish faults are weeded out quickly and painlessly by other members of the "gang" or crowd. A child, for instance, who has a lisp, a mincing walk, a quaintness of costume, or has quirks of language habit is hooted and mimicked by the rest of the neighborhood until either he leaves off his eccentricities, falls in line and conforms to a pattern; or he becomes a pariah. Children have a 600 horror of seeming odd or peculiar. And they have refreshing frankness in spotting and revealing an aberration in others. It is the peculiarities which most often form the basis of a dislike in the child for a teacher. Children are adept in picking out flaws in their pedagogues and nicknaming them accordingly. "Squinty," "Goggle--Eyes," "Plodding Pete," "Windy Dan" and "The Oil Can" are examples of the epithets they bestow, in emphasis of their mannerisms. Old child, the other day, imitating the walk of each teacher in her school, and I was able to recognize each one by her portrayal. In the case of adolescents, their tendencies to gaze into mirrors for long periods of time (if we are to believe Booth Tarkington), plus their proneness to idolize and copy the superbly mannered and gesticulated Hollywood stars, have a way of eliminating the unbecoming habits and molding them into patterns of pleasing perfection. If the youth is not influenced by the screen, there are still initiations and truth parties, where plain, unvarnished truth comes in at the front door and sensitivity and regard for personal feelings scuttle out at the rear. Adults seem, at least in the matter of "bizarrerie" to be in a class by themselves. Good manners prevent frankness in revealing to each other freakish habits. Unlike youths, they are quite satisfied with themselves and have not the inclination, in the majority of cases, to emulate Hollywood. They are likely to go their ways serene and unrebuked unless something radical is done about it. WELL, if children can correct weird mannerisms in other children, why not let them begin giving hints to their parents? The idea of I saw a six year: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE parent perfection and unquestioned ancestor worship is rather out of date, anyway. So the solution it occurs to me is to cultivate the opinions of one's off-spring and then catalogue the reports. The truth will out! If bashfulness, self-consciousness or "previous condition of servitude" should restrain them, then just wait till some black moment when you force them to! Go contrary to your wishes and they'll burst forth with a perfect imitation of your voice and person, and your shortcomings will be a sacred secret no longer. The salutary effect of a child's point of view upon one was impressed upon me one day at a college football game. In the grandstand on the row in front of me sat a small five or six year old girl, in whom interest for the game so lagged, that before the end of the first half, she had completely reversed her position, and remained facing me for the rest of the afternoon. There, with her feet perched up comfortably in front of her, and her small, snubnosed face imperturbedly not missing an expression of mine, she was quite frankly enjoying herself and being calmly entertained by my reactions. Whenever I cheered, she mimicked me in a flat, unemotional way that made it look ridiculous. When I agonized or held my breath in suspense, my physical peculiarities and unbecoming facial expressions were mirrored to the point of caricature in her small, freckled face. She never missed a sound or a gesture or failed to echo it. By the end of the afternoon I felt chastened and toned down, but invigorated in the way one is after a dose of a good tonic. I may be that mirror-paneled rooms and more work with the THE FOUNTAIN OF TRUTH recording of one's voice will take care of these adult specific shortcomings. Television may be the solution to our unconformities in much the same way as radio has smoothed out our faults of diction, idiom, accent and tonal quality. It may be that courses in esthetic dancing, and 601 training in dramatics will erase the undesirable. But the easiest, least expensive and surest way of hitting the target of one's weakness, it seems to me, is to get it straight from a child. As the old soap advertisement used to read, 'Have you a little fairy in your home?"