Notes to the Field Ward Magazine Agents: IN sending in subscriptions send the name, street number, town, and state which month the subscription should commence with. Be sure that you do this for each subscription. In order to give desired service it is necessary for us to have this information. It is also a requirement of the postoffice. It is well for subscribers to send in the same name each year. Some send it one year in their given name and other years in their married name. For instance, Mrs. Mary Jones and Mrs. John Jones. Magazine Drive. WE learn with pleasure that one wide-awake stake has asked for ten minutes' time in the sacrament meeting of each ward on Sunday, September 16th, to sell the Magazine to the men of the ward. Some bishops when asked not only gladly gave the ten minutes but offered the whole time of the sacrament meeting to the Relief Society. This stake is suggesting that a member of the stake board give a ten-minute talk on the Magazine, and that she introduce the ward Magazine agent at the conclusion of her talk. Know Your Magazine. We suggest that the presidency give thought to getting the Magazine read. A "Know Your Magazine" campaign would be a good feature for this year. Stake Magazine Agents: ARE you meeting each month with your ward Magazine agents, checking on their records to see that they are accurate, and that the people are visited to get their subscriptions renewed at the time they expire? Subscriptions may begin any month in the year. They should be renewed when subscriptions expire so subscribers will not miss a number. It is desirable that the agents keep an accurate record of each subscription. This can be done by completely filling out the stubs in the receipt books. When the names are listed on the blanks, please state which month each subscription should commence. If the month is given and not just "renewal" more prompt and accurate service can be given. If no request is made for a certain number, the current issue will be mailed. Relief Society Song. Brother K. E. Fordham of St. George last October wrote a Relief Society song and presented it to Sister Brooks, president of that Stake. One-hundred copies were mimeographed, eight to twelve copies being sent to each ward. They all used it at their March Anniversary and were so pleased with it that Sister Brooks sent word to Sister Robison of its success. Now Brother Fordham is going to get it out in sheet form. It is a two-part song, entitled "Gifts of Love." Ten copies will be mailed for $1.00, and additional copies may be purchased at 10c each. Money must accompany the order. Send order to K. E. Fordham, St. George, Utah. Attention, Stake Magazine Agents! All Stake Magazine Agents are requested at the close of the Drive to send in information under the following heads: STAKE WARD ENROLLMENT NO. OF SUB. PER CENT NAME OF MAGAZINE AGENT Of course, there will be a line for each ward in the stake. (The report should come to our Magazine office, Room 20, Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City, Utah, from the Stake and not from each ward separately.) Those wards that get subscriptions that total 75% or more of their enrollment will be placed on the honor list. These wards should be listed at the bottom of the sheet for publication on our honor page. Stakes that get 75% or more will be on a separate list. The Stake should send in this information: ENROLLMENT OF STAKE NO. OF SUB. PER CENT NAME OF STAKE MAGAZINE AGENT Those whose subscriptions expire with the December number may be counted on these lists. In the February Magazine a second honor list will be published. This will enable those who need more time to reach a desired goal. Our Project For 1934-1935. I. A Family Project—(Something new for the organizations to undertake): Last April the Executive Board of the Relief Society called the Relief Society Mission Presidents to a meeting and asked them for suggestions regarding Relief Society work. All desired that missionaries come into the field with at least a general knowledge of the Scriptures, and that they know which books are in the Old Testament, the New Testament and the Book of Mormon. So we now present to you a project which, if carried out, will familiarize your families with the Scriptures in a general way. An outline of what the books contain in general will be found in the August, 1934, Relief Society Magazine. Use it. II. The Desirability of a Project is very evident: We all work better if we have an objective—some definite thing to do in a given time. This family project will draw the family together in a common interest, in a united undertaking. It is stimulating to work together. III. Making the Project Successful: Launch the Project enthusiastically at your October Union Meeting. Think out ways that will stir up interest and write to us of your plans and success. ' Have Visiting Ward Teachers check (Y) each month on their books and report the number of families that are putting over the project, at their monthly Visiting Teacher Training Meetings. Have Secretary check the roll and give credit to those who are working on the Project. Ward Presidents should report at regular meetings the results of the efforts made. IV. The Plan: In November and December feature Books of the Old Testament. In January Books of the New Testament. In February Books of the Book of Mormon. In March Pearl of Great Price. In April and May Articles of Faith. Have members know how many books there are in the Old Testament (39), New Testament (27), and the Book of Mormon (15), and be able to designate the volume in which each may be found. What an inspiring thing this will be to have the family study religion in the home. The call has long sounded "Back to the Farm!"; we call "Back to the Scriptures!' We are not so familiar with them as our parents were. The command is still in force, "Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and'they are they which testify of me."—(John 5:39.)