[Vol2 | July 1915 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Article | Title: The Prince of Ur]
A Prince of Ur. By Homespun. Two hours before sunset a filthy burial cart was just issuing from the great gateway of Ur on the southeast side of the city. It was the crude and rough cart which was used to carry out the pauper dead of the city to the sepulchers lying in the sides of the low, hilly hummocks back of the river. The great mounds which had opened their cave-like mouths for many generations to swallow the dead of Ur were grim and loathsome in the lower portions of these hills. Along the upper edges there were many carved and beautiful sarcophagi, while here and there along the face of the cliffs hung palms, or acacias with trading verdure. At the upper portions of the tombs and burial caves, there were carved images of many gods known to Assyria, rising on pedestals under the palms or squatting on low bases, and flower-bedecked. But to the far end of all this grandeur there slept in simplicity the less favored ones of the city's dead, while at its extreme south edge there was a huge yawning cave into which the promiscuous corpses were flung without much ceremony and over them was thrown quick dissolvents to prevent possible infection. Out of the city's gateway, therefore, the death-cart lumbered with creaking wheels and dust-rising slowness. The peasant driver crept along beside the cart clucking to his jaded ass and himself springing forward occasionally to avoid the lash of his master who chatted idly with the passers by or rode up from time to time to accelerate the cart-driver's speed. As the dreary death-march proceeded thus rudely, three female forms, clad in dark abayas. but with the unveiled faces of the Accadians, ran hastily out of the city gate and peered anxiously down the crowded roadway for something not seen, in the press of other vehicles and travelers. They ran this way and that on the road, always making for the road which led to the sepulchers of the dead. Finally, with a cry the taller one, a grave and handsome girl of twenty, with close-crinkled hair of ebony hue, and wide but scarlet lips, set in a face of simple black homely charm, cried loudly, "See sisters, there it is. Hasten, we will be too late." The two ran after her with fleet steps, and catching up with the death-cart, the elder maiden spoke hurriedly to the loutish driver. "Wait! Wait, I beg of you. Is not this the body of the poor slave Zarah who was done to death today in the slave-market?" "Huh?" asked the lout stupidly. The girl repeated her question. But the slave would not deign to attempt to fathom in what matter so singular a question about an unknown dead slave could be asked. How was he to know she had come by her death? Life was cheap beside the river Euphrates. He chucked loudly to his sleepy beast and started to rumble on, the corpse bounding to and fro as he rode roughly away. "O, stop," cried the girl. "See, here is money." That was a form of salutation easily understood by every menial since the world began. Out shot the filthy hand, and into it dropped a small Assyrian coin. The cart was halted, the bit of cloth thrown over the dead was pulled away, and at once, as the sisters crowded around the bier, each whispered solemnly to the other: "It is Zarah!" While they stood thus weeping beside the cart, the officer came up swearing in guttural Assyrian. But as he saw the three black maidens bowed over the cart, he too stopped and stared. "O, sir," said the elder girl, "this was the sister of my mother. She was once a free woman, but was sold by a Prince's son to a merchant of Ninevah. We had just learned of her return to this city when the news of her violent death also reached us. Our father is Azzi-jaami —
the prince of Ur, Patriarch Terah. Release this poor corpse, and let us give you money for a decent burial." The officer, himself none too intelligent, sat upon his horse, stupidly annoyed, thus to be interrupted in his official duties. A bit of human carrion, more or less, mattered little to him, but the interruption of his regular official duties was so unusual that he was quite at a loss how to proceed. Without replying, he rode back towards the city a few paces and, as his eye caught the figure of two well-known foreign merchants, he called out. "Javanu! here, this way. See, here are three wenches who say they are from the Palace of Terah, and they are asking for decent burial for this dirty slave, just dead in the market-place. What say you?" The man appealed to came trotting up, wide-eyed with curiosity, and the moment his eyes were clapped upon the three maidens, he shouted, "Daughters of Azzi-jaami. what luck to meet you here in the very outskirts of Ur — " "What ho, merchant," cried the officer angrily, "I have no time to listen to your wide-mouthed greetings to these daughters A PRINCE OF UR. . 331 of the house of Terah. Answer me my question, if you can. Are they what they claim to be?" "Who but a stupid clown of a guard would fail to recognize the pillars of polished ebony which grace the courts of my great friend Terah's dwelling? These are surely free-born daughters of the tribe of Terah." "But for the money," cried the officer rudely, "what money have you? Quick, for the people press about, and the carrion must be thrown under ground speedily or it will cause disease." The girls each emptied her small store of ready coins into the hands of the rapacious officer, but he still grumbled and cursed, under his breath, for the two merchant travelers had passed on down the road. The officer was about to order the cart to move onward when a tall form pushed through the crowd now gathered around the funeral procession, and Abram, with a little black child trotting at his heels, walked quickly up to the group beside the cart. The populace fell away in silent respect as the prince approached the cart, and even the officer touched his helmet and sprang from his horse to stand as the prince passed him. "What is it, daughters of Azzi-jaami? Why do you linger here?" "See, my lord," and they drew the covering from the bloated face of the murdered slave girl. "Ah," and Abram groaned as he saw the face. "Who is this?" They told him. Without more words, he told the driver of the cart to turn towards the upper end of the hills. He put money into the hands of the officer and sent him forward to purchase needed funeral supplies. He turned to the girls, and asked them sternly, "How has this thing come about? Can it be possible that this is the poor slave Mardan slew this day?" "It is the lord Mardan who hath wrought this wickedness," said Argob, the second daughter. "He was soon weary of the sister of our mother, and sold her into slavery to a merchant of Ninevah. It is only today that she returns, and behold!" "Thou hast much to do, Prince Abram," said the officer who had lingered near, "to answer for the crimes committed under thy father's roof-tree. Mardan hath more arms than the Goddess Mylitta and hath wasted more women than the God Merodach." "Doth thy father know that you are thus abroad in the streets of the city?" asked Abram, who knew the close guardianship put upon these comely maidens by their jealous father. "Nay, we have been led by the sorrow of our hearts rather than the wisdom of our heads." Abram said no more. But he walked slowly onward to the far northern slopes of this long sepulchral hill, and before fol
 lowing him, the three maidens stooped to the road and throwing sand upon their heads, they cowered in the folds of their abayas, and followed Abram with the black baby at his heels, all three of them walking along with swaying bodies and uttering the shrill minor wailing cries for the dead. The baby put up his arms for Abram to carry him, for the quivering notes of that minor wail now shrilled along a high nasal key or muttered in half-vocalized words, then dropping to a low tone, still in weird minor sounds, — chilled the baby's very soul, while it echoed down the crowded roadways and all the passersby made way silently and respectfully for the queerly assorted mourning party. The officer dropped away from them as they walked onward, but Abram led the strange procession with unchanged brows. It was fully an hour later when they reached one of the many little embalming shops close beside the better class of sepulchers, and here Abram ordered the body cleansed and prepared for speedy burial; while outside, the three sisters sat upon the hot pavements and wailed in true oriental fashion for their deceased relative. The baby was their own half-brother, but he would not venture near them while they were pouring forth their minor chants and wild wailing cries, for he was frightened; so he kept close beside his master's heels, secure in that great protection which all helpless, hopeless things felt when Prince Abram was near. At length the body was ready. A dozen hired wailers had joined the girls upon the sands, and the procession made its slow, and now respectable way up to a fairly decent cave or sepulcher — the wailers howling dismally —wherein were chambers divided into receptacles for the respectable moneyed class of the city's dead. And here the poor dead slave was placed, on a long ledge or shelf, laid upon her rig-ht side, and Adah, the eldest daughter was careful to place a large copper bowl of dates beside the body, and over its rim she drew the hand of the dead woman as if about to eat of the fruit in the bowl. With a last look of reverential farewell, the party left the sepulchre, and the mouth of the cave was sealed for a season. The three black maidens were very sad and silent as they emerged from the place of the dead. Abram asked them if they would let him send them in to the city on the backs of hired asses; but all three refused. Each was very glad thus to be released from their recent sad occupation — and all three were filled with a secret relief thus to be outside of their cramped and guarded quarters. Brought but recently to the palace of Terah from the vine-clad hills of the Accadian mountains, the girls were somewhat weary of the semi-concealment insisted upon by their strict father, and all were glad to wander slowly homeward in the cooling dusk of the evening. Therefore, Abram left them to stroll A PRINCE OF UR. 333 quietly along as they would to the palace walls; for he was well aware that the Assyrian customs were widely lenient in matter of freedom for women in civil and domestic life, although his own father and the master-workman, Azzi-jaami, were still fain to cling to the older customs of the patriarchal forefathers, which gave the women of the household far less freedom. Abram's mind was racked with the distressing scenes he had just witnessed, the murder, the burial, and the utter lack of human sympathy which he saw everywhere about him, for both life and for death. To Abram's keenly philosophical mind this frivolity of purpose, this cheap and illusory measure of life's deepest problems, was one of the most painful forecasts for the future of his beloved and beautiful native land. He walked rapidly away from the fretted environs of the city, and on along down the groves of acacia and palms, with the fullbearing date-trees on every side, until he reached the river banks. It was in the latter part of the month of May, and the scene upon which his eyes rested would have delighted a far less poetic and artistic soul than was that of the prince of Ur. The great river Euphrates was at its flood. But instead of allowing its heavy waters to cover the surrounding lands with unchecked wasting destruction, huge channels, canals and river dyke vah  to  s flowed through their sluices in regular and appointed fashion. Many of the canals had been made possible by the skillful advice of Abram's forefathers and the latest and greatest canal of them all was that which parted his father's mammoth plantation into a thousand fertile sections. Thus were the quickening channels of moisture led to the roots of every tree and plant, for not many weeks hence, the seeds thus moistened would spring forth into fully matured wheatheads, and the fields of grain would smile across the face of the landscape for miles inland from the shores of this life-giving river. Nothing could exceed the beauty and luxury of this riverside and its now verdant borders. Bee-eaters, kingfishers, herons, pigeons, hawks, and other birds, in all their bright and varied plumage, flew about the tree tops, uttering their several cries; and none seemed to notice the presence of this lonely wanderer along the river-banks. The great city and its noise and glamor were far away. Here was the quiet peace of the tropical evening. The groves of date-palms among which he wandered would soon show their clusters of gold and amber under the glowing green of dusky leaves. Abram raised his eye as he thought of the luxury with which he was surrounded. Here was his country's rarest product— the luxurious date-palm — and he himself stood in the midst of his father's magnificent groves which were famed from Nine vah Babylon. amber fruit-clusters were his father's These the gold to mines. For beside food which they furnished to his father's households, they served as noble merchandise to the neigh
