[Vol2 | July 1915 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Research]
RESEARCH.  303 
live  to  complete  this  work.  That  her  death  prevented  this  attain- 
ment, is  only  one  of  the  many  disappointments  she  met  with  mar- 
velous courage.  It  was  said  by  one  of  Sister  Crocheron's  friends, 
"Augusta  Crocheron  seemed  to  me  to  always  have  the  wrong  set- 
ting, so  refined,  so  gentle,  so  desirous  of  everything  beautiful,  and 
yet  denied  them  all."  It  might  appear  this  way  to  many  who 
knew  and  loved  her,  and  yet  she  was  a  woman  who  had  such  a 
depth  of  feeling  that  she  found  happiness  and  wealth,  where 
others  could  not  comprehend.  Her  love  for  flowers  was  almost 
a  passion,  and  wherever  she  lived  her  dooryard  was  resplendent 
in  color.  She  found  perhaps  her  greatest  pleasure  in  reading,  and 
books  were  not  denied  her.  In  the  perusal  of  their  pages  she 
forgot  her  woes,  and  spent  many  happy  hours.  She  loved  nature 
and  enjoyed  solitude,  for  there  she  found  the  inspiration  which 
called  forth  the  songs  of  her  heart  in  poetic  verse. 
It  seems  to  me  that  I  have  always  known  and  always  held 
dear,  Augusta  Joyce  Crocheron.  Perhaps  our  spirits  knew  each 
other  before  this  dispensation.  Hers  was  a  spirit  finely  tempered 
and  tuned  for  the  artistic  and  poetic  things  of  life.  It  is  some 
comfort  to  believe  that  the  severe  refining  she  received  in  life's 
furnace,  better  prepared  her  for  a  glorious  setting  in  our  Father's 
Kingdom. 
RESEARCH. 
"What  constitutes  'Society'?"  inquired  the  Man  from  Mars  ; 
"Is  it  a  gathering  of  wealth  and  intellectual  stars?" 
"Ho,  ho !"  replied  the  rustic  youth  who  wore  a  grin  serene, 
"Society's  our  Mayday  dance  upon  the  village  green." 
"Not  so,"  the  housemaid  gayly  said.     "That  isn't  it  at  all. 
To  find  society  you  should  attend  the  coachmen's  ball." 
The  serious  woman  said,  "If  for  society  you  search 
You'll  find  the  very  best  there  is  coming  to  my  church." 
The  studious  one  remarked,  "The  very  highest  social  force 
You  may  discover  if  you  will  attend  our  lecture  course." 
And  some  said  that  society  was  made  for  games  of  chance. 
And  others  mentioned  art  and  brains  and  beauty  and  the  dance. 
The  Man  from  Mars  looked  puzzled  and  remarked,  "It  seems  to  me 
Society  is  all  mankind,  including  even  me ; 
And  each  of  us  looks  just  beyond  his  own  familiar  sphere  ; 
The  impulse  is  what  made  me  leave  my  home  and  come  down  here. 
Society's  a  picture  which  we  fill  w^ith  fa\s  and  elves 
And,  when  we  meet  them,  find  that  they  are  persons  like  ourselves."