SPIRITUAL EDUCATION 15 I would mix together these six or seven simple little ingredients— simple and little, and yet big enough to fill a lifetime: 1. Set up the right spirit in the home. I wish you would go home from this conference and read Mrs. Fisher's first chapter in Mothers and Children, which she calls "Moral Sunshine." It is a plea such as I wish I had the power to get over. It is a problem such as we have been discussing only last week in our own home, and which we seem never to be able to get away from. You are mothers and therefore busy. That is the only way you can become mothers. Nobody ever retired to motherhood. Because you are busy, look out lest you become unduly busy on that phase of life that doesn't represent the real ultimate values. The woman who gets so busy keeping the dust off the furniture or cooking meals to satisfy the ravenous appetite of a husband, has misjudged values, if in doing so she has no time to tell stories to Billy or to give right attitudes toward motherhood to Mary. 'I know you are busy. It may be that you had to leave that batch of fruit or had to stay up late to get it done, so that you could come here today, but I would like to say that you are not just to put up fruit, or to pickle pickles, or to sweep kitchens, or to scrub bathrooms—you are charged above all else to bring Billy and Mary into their estate, and it is mighty poor economy to let minor duties stand in the way. I should hate to be a mother and present myself to St. Peter, in the absence of a boy I had lost, and plead that I had to put up too much fruit to feed him with, and therefore didn't have time to teach him properly. I do not believe it will ever get you very far past the great celestial gates. I hope you are feeling a little uneasy—I want you to. I won't even mind if you disagree with me a little—that is who! Esome. Whenever a woman is so busy cleaning the house in which her boys and girls live that she is out of sorts with them all the time, that woman is on the wrong platform because no woman can dust furniture to the neglect of her child and feel good about it. I like a clean house, and I am-man enough to like to sit down to good meals, but the problem of promoting spirituality centers in the home. You cannot be grouchy and dumpy injthe home and develop boys and girls of the right sort. You cannot have the spirit of the gospel in the home if there is quarreling. You cannot have the spirit of the gospel in the home, if all the time you are nagging the boys and girls because you are tired out, and they are doing what they have a right to do because they are boys and girls. One of the biggest challenges I have to meet is when I come home from the office worn out and tired, and Buddy runs to me and wants to play. If I brush him aside, because I am too tired to play, I shall be chargeable for the life that Buddy may fail to develop. Brush aside the material things once in a while and center in spiritual values. Z. There are certain other things that need to be done, and we should set up certain definite habits. First of all, we need to develop in children, from the time they are born, an attitude of responding to all the situations they face, happily. If you cannot get a girl to do the dishes cheerfully, you have no bigger problem in the household. There is something wrong with the child who dislikes to do dishes. It is possible to make girls do the dishes and even do them fairly cheerfully. I believe it is possible to get a boy around the house to do the chores and actually enjoy it. We have been experimenting on it. We have put our kiddies on a budget and let them go into partnership with father and mother. They naturally want some money—pay them well and let them do the little things they are to do because they are partners and they will feel good about it. If boys and girls are everlastingly doing things they detest, they will hate to be home, and there is no clamity quite commensurate with the calamity that comes when children do not want to be home. The other day two children were knocked over, and it was discovered that one little child of five was on the streets because the doors were locked so that he would not disturb the house while the mother was away. 3. We should begin early the habit of helpfulness. I love to go into a home where a boy or a girl will go out of his way to share with another. I was in a home awhile back where one little lad had been sent to the store to get some candy. He'brought back some of these "dumbells" (sticks with candy on each end). He had only four and there were five kiddies to share them. Ordinarily that would result in a mental collision. The little lad who had been properly trained said, "Well, we haven't enough to go around." He didn't sneak off with his and leave somebody else to worry, but he took them all and broke them up and then divided them. I salute that kind of home. It is a tremendously fine thing when a girl can be encouraged to go out into the kitchen and offer to help with the dishes. If the men were here I would say it would be a fine thing if they could remember the davs when they were courting when they wanted to sneak out into the kitchen to help her. It is a mighty helpful thing for the, father to slip over an idea to Mary: "Your mother is tired, can't you slip out and help her?" It won't hurt a boy to help out the tired mother. I believe it is possible to build an attitude of helpfulness so that boys and girls take pains to help one another, which is the very key to the spirit of the gospel of Jesus Christ. 4. I sometimes fear that American homes these days run the risk of suffering from two things, the result of science. The first is the victrola, which will play anything for us; the second is the piano player, which will do the same thing. If you have either or both of these instruments in your family, what is hap- SPIRITUAL EDUCATION 17 pening to your boys and girls? Are they learning to play? What kind of pieces do they play? Are they playing these raggedy, raggedy ones, or have you taken pains to bring through these channels the masterpieces of the world? I would like to submit it to the humblest mother here from the remotest corner in Zion. Your children and your children's children will come to love the best things in the world if you will take the pains to expose them. I fancy we are losing something in the Church. I could wish that we were singing more than we are. I could wish that children would gather of an evening and that they would be encouraged to sing the songs that carry with them the message of truth, 5. The next little thought that I would like to give by way of promoting spirituality, I am sure is being neglected. A testimony was given to a man who went into one of the wards in Salt Lake City. This man hadn't been in a service in years, and he was a little prejudiced. He didn't attend this service to listen, but he went out of obligation—- it was a funeral that had touched a family so close to him and he went to pay his respects. While he sat in that service, largely unmindful of what was being said, he saw a picture of the divine messenger giving the plates to the Prophet Joseph, and during the whole service he could do nothing but worship in the presence of that picture, and that picture brought him back to the Church. There is a force in good pictures, I knew of a mother who sent her son to Boston to attend the university. He was just a natural fellow, and in fixing up his room he decided he would put a little life into it, so he gathered pictures from the Photoplay magazines, most of which were the pictures of the follies chorus girls, more or less nude. A little later the mother went to visit Boston and when she went into the room, she was stunned. She was confident that these pictures would do more to undermine her son than any university could do to build him up. She did not say she was ashamed of him. She did not even say she was surprised. She looked at those pictures, swallowed the lump in her throat, and said nothing. When she went home she went to an art store and bought a copy of Hoffmann's "Jesus in the Temple," a picture that has an expression that will drive home the worth of cleanliness as few things have ever done, and without wrapping in any moral, she had that picture beautifully framed and sent to her boy. Six months later she was in Boston and called to see him. On the wall just behind the boy's study table was the picture of the Master in the temple. Just next was another beautiful picture, and there were also two other reprints of the world's masterPieces. The mother asked what had happened to the other pictures, and the boy said, "O, mother, they wouldn't go with that, so I took them down." I sometimes wonder whether we are quite fair. There are being hurled at boys and girls throughout this Church cheap, immodest, immoral bits of art, and you and I sit by in indifference. Copies of good pictures are obtainable at very little expense. I would that we could fill our homes with the pictures that reflect great truths.