NOTES FROM THE FIELD Amy Brown Lyman
Annual Dues. Women of the Relief Society will remember that annual dues for 1925, including membership and stake dues, should be paid in January, and not later than February, 1925. They will therefore be prepared to remit the same to the officers or to the visiting teachers. Every stake takes a pride in having the dues sent in on time. Last year Weber stake used a small envelope for collecting dues which was very helpful. Printed on the envelope following the space for the name of donor was this: "My Relief Society dues for year 1924?50c. (The Society must pay for the member who fails to pay her dues.)"
Cottonwood Stake. I At a fair held recently in Brinton ward, the Relief Society, which numbers only thirty members, cleared $131.95, which was turned in on the new chapel. Each pair of teachers of the eight districts was asked to be responsible for the making of one quilt. A house to house canvass was made which resulted in materials for eight lovely quilts, which were duly made. Seven of the quilts brought in $65.50, and the eighth was given as a prize. The apron and notions booths was also very successful, bringing in $66.45.
Snowflake Stake. As a means of publicity for the group convention held in this stake, and in order to insure a good attendance, Mrs. Pearl N. Fish, the stake secretary of Snowflake stake Relief Society, sent out seventy letters announcing the meetings and program, and calling attention to the importance of the gathering. An excellent response was the result.
North Davis Stake. On the 15th of October, the North Davis stake Relief Society board entertained in honor of the ward presidents. The stake presidency, high council, and the bishoprics of the several wards were special guests. The hall was decorated in keeping with Hallowe'en. The program consisted of games and dancing in which all took part. At 10:30 an excellent luncheon was served to 125 people, during which President Emily Brough responded to the toast, "Our Officers,' and the Farmington Quartette furnished special numbers. The occasion furnished excellent opportunity for all to get acquainted.