Guide Lessons for March
LESSON I (First Week in March)
Theology and Testimony
The Period?From the Advent of Man to the Translation of the City of Enoch, About rooo Years
Part I?Adam
A. Some LEADING EVENTS
1. The Fall and Banishment?In the Garden of Eden our first parents became estranged from God. Here they took into their systems the seeds of physical death. Here they became like Gods in one particular, knowing good from evil?therefore, moral agents. Here they received the spiritual death-sentence of banishment from the presence of God: 'Wherefore I the Lord God caused that he should be cast out from the Garden of Eden, from my presence, because of his transgression, wherein he became spiritually dead, which is the first death, even that same death, which is the last death, which is spiritual, which shall be pronounced upon the wicked when I shall say?Depart, ye cursed." Doc. And Cov., Sec. 29:41. A fulness of the gospel in the Garden seems to have been limited to one ordinance, two commands, and the teaching of the doctrines of obedience, free agency, and penalties. Outside of the Garden of Eden, with a memory of all the joys of Eden, the father and mother of the race found themselves face to face with the double command, 'Replenish and subdue the earth." We have no record of a single murmur from either of them. They had lost Eden, but they had each other. The first ordinance performed on earth which made them one carried over into the heaven-making process of home building. Without the recollection of their pre-existent promise to face thorns and thistles, and legions of spirits who lost their first estate, this single pair faced the fight for existence with no dream as yet of life hereafter or of salvation or exaltation. Among the new experiences came the one of the realization that, '""Absence makes the heart grow fonder," and they found themselves yearning for God * * * They were ready for the first great event outside of Eden, 
2. The First Prayer?Adam and Eve prayed not only as children and youths can pray; but as parents only can pray. It appears that as grandparents they sent this petition from earth to heaven. (See Pearl of Great Price; Book of Moses v:2, 3, 4.) To that prayer came an answer, in the voice of God?the voice from which Adam had fled. Was it not in answer to the universal cry of the soul to God, 'Lord, what wouldst thou have me do" The cry that gives evidence of unconditional spiritual surrender to the will of God; a condition in which Jesus always kept himself.
3. The First Sacrifice?The answer to the prayer came. It was a requirement, a gospel requirement. Adam and Eve were to know that "Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven." They offered the best to the Lord: the best of themselves, their hearts; the best of their possessions, the firstling of the flock. Moses V:5, -. The obedience to the first command outside of Eden has sometimes been called erroneously blind obedience. The sacrifice was an outward test of the inner self; a material test of the spiritual self. Tested and found true, man was ready for the next great event: an official presentation of the redemption part of the gospel.;
4. The First Messenger?An angel, a messenger from God came with the message of eternal life for mortal man: a plan by which banished man may come back into the enjoyable presence of God with an everlasting resurrected body. The revelation of this plan filled Adam and Eve with so much faith and hope that they rejoiced over even the sad experience of the past, out of which the Lord in his majesty and mercy had brought good.
5. The First Baptism?This event completed the spiritual re-birth. It was a free-agency birth, an official birth; they were "born of the water and of the spirit:" "And thus he was baptized, and the Spirit of God descended upon him, and thus he was born of the Spirit, and became quickened in the inner man. "And he heard a voice out of heaven, saying: Thou art baptized with fire, and with the Holy Ghost. This is the record of the Father, and the Son, from henceforth and forever; "And thou art after the order of him who was without beginning of days or end of years, from all eternity to all eternity. "Behold, thou art one in me, a son of God; and thus may all become my sons. Amen." Book of Moses vi:64-67., Closely related to the first baptism was the bestowal of the Priesthood indicated by the contents of verse sixty-seven, above quoted. -?
6. The First Great Sorrow?The most woeful event in the life of Adam and Eve was the first death in the family. They had not failed to teach their children and set them good examples. They had prayed for their children and had done all they could for the spiritual growth of their posterity; but in spite of it all they met an event that made a martyr and a devil. The first funeral was held under circumstances indescribably distressing. It was not the death of Abel that cut deepest as a sorrow blow, but the conduct of Cain and the other children who were accessory to his crime. Their fate was the chief source of sorrow. "And Adam and Eve, his wife, mourned before theLord because of Cain and his brethren.' (Pearl of Great Price; Moses v:27.)
7. The Birth of Seth?It appears that the death of Abel left the posterity of Adam without a person worthy of the holy Priesthood and we can imagine what hope, what prospective and immediate happiness accompanied the birth of the son who would "walk in the ways of the Lord", and officiate in the name of the Savior yet unborn. Happy day for the human family, the day when Seth was born.
8. The Great Home-Coming?Among the joy-giving events was the home-coming for blessings, when Adam blessed his posterity and they blessed him. "Three years previous to the death of Adam, he called Seth, Enos, Cainan, Mahalaleel, Jared, Enoch, and Methuselah, who were all High Priests, with the residue of his posterity who were righteous, into the valley of Adam-ondi-Ahman, and there bestowed upon them his last blessing. "And the Lord appeared unto them, and they rose up and blessed Adam, and called him Michael, the prince, the archangel. "And the Lord administered comfort unto Adam, and said unto him, I have set thee to be at the head, a multitude of nations shall come of thee, and thou art a prince over them forever." Doc. And Cov., 107:53-55.
B. Brief Biography OF ADAM. The archangel who led the host of heaven against Lucifer, (Rev. 12:7); the son of God, (Luke 3:38); the father of the human race, (Genesis); the contender with Satan over the body of Moses, (Jude. 9); a celestial-glory being, (Doc. And Cov., Commentary, p. 571); the one who is to lead the army against Satan in the final contest, (Doc. And'Cov., Sec. 88:111-116).
C. Summary of Doctrines TAUGHT. Free agency, rewards and punishments, atonement, faith, repentance, baptism, resurrection of the body, final judgment, preexistence and eternal progress. Ordinances performed?marriages, baptism, conferring of the Priesthood, giving of Patriarchal blessings, and possibly others. 
D. Some Lessons To THE AGES. Obedience must be learned; 'Sacrifice brings forth the blessings of heaven;' God and one man are a majority. Prayer is a key for opening the heavens.
1. About what time is covered by the Adamic Dispensation?
2. To what extent did man become like unto God through the Fall?
3. What seems to have been the fulness of the gospel to Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden?
4. Why was the redemption part of the plan of salvation not given to them in the Garden?
5. Describe the baptism of Adam as recorded in the Pearl of Great Price.
6. Discuss the ways and means we have, which Adam and Eve did not have, for obeying the command still in force, "Teach these things freely to your children."
7. What does the last sentence of the Pearl of Great Price,, Moses v:23 indicate concerning the destiny of Cain and Satan?
8. Name some of the positions held by Adam of which we have record.
9. Mention the doctrines taught and the ordinances performed in the days of Adam.
10. How many patriarchs were present at the "home-coming" three years before the death of Adam? (See Doc. And Cov., Sec. 107:53).
LESSON II (Second Week in March)
Work and Business
A. Some women feel that milk is a difficult thing to handle, but if the K. C. Rule is followed the problem is nearly solved. Keep Clean. Keep Cool. Keep Covered.
B. Delicious milk dishes.
1. Milk soups.
2. Milk puddings.
3. Bread and milk.
4. Cottage cheese.
5. Ice cream.
C. A quart of milk a day for every growing child.
D. Suggestions for safety. 1, Source of supply. 2. How handled. 3. Pasteurized milk considered safest.
LESSON III (Third Week in March)
Literature
A few months ago the Literary Digest announced a new edition of Emily Dickinson's poems. Interest in Emily Dickinson had waned considerably, when all at once a revival of interest in her poems occurred in literary circles. So far reaching is this revival that publishers are willing to chance a new edition of her poems, feeling sure that they are taking no financial risk. All this is not without reason. Today we have a type of poetry which we call new poetry. Many of our modern poets are of this school. Amy Lowell, the sister of the president of Harvard University, is conspicuous as a writer of the new poetry. The new poetry favors colorful words, words full of suggestiveness; that is, words which arouse images of beautiful sights or beautiful sounds. The poets who write the new poetry put much emphasis on words of this sort. Emily Dickinson did just that thing forty or fifty years ago, but because she was somewhat alone in her method she did not attract the attention that she would do today, now that her style of writing has become the fashion of the hour, for all students of literature know that there are fashions in literature just as there are fashions in dress, and all women know that fashions in dress come and go, and often come back again. Emily Dickinson was born in Amherst, the well known college town of the state of Massachusetts, Dec. 10, 1830, the year the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints was organized, and died at Amherst, May 15, 1886. Because it is difficult to find her poems in any except very complete libraries, we shall include. Some six or seven in this lesson, and trust to our readers to find additional biographical material elsewhere. If the task proves difficult, it is not of any great consequence, for Emily Dickinson's poems did not grow out of biographical situations, as did many of Longfellow's, but 
He glanced with rapid eyes That hurried all abroad,; They looked like frightened beads, I thought; He stirred his velvet head Like one in danger; cautious, I offered him a crumb, And he unrolled his feathers And rowed him softer home.
Than oars divide the ocean, Too silver for a seam, Or butterflies, off banks of noon, Leap, splashless, as they swim.
While Emily Dickinson is closely allied in her work with many of our present day poets, she is also like the New England poets in that frequently she implies a moral in her poems. A moral is implied in, "The Robin," in, "If I can stop one heart from breaking," and in Chartless." We shall conclude the lesson by quoting the last two.
If I can stop one heart from breaking, I shall not live in vain; If I can ease one life the aching, Or cool one pain, Or help one fainting robin Into his nest again, I shall not live in vain.
I never saw a moor, I never saw the sea; Yet know I how the heather looks And what a wave must be.
I never spoke with God, Nor visited in heaven; Yet certain am I of the spot As if the chart were given.
This exquisite little poem reveals the poet's own faith in God
and immortality, consequently we feel it supplies a fitting climax to the lesson.
Questions and Problems
1. How many months had the Church been' organized when Emily Dickinson was born?
2. Suggest a group of images that appeal to the sight in the poem, "Autumn."
3. What do the words evanescence and cochineal mean?
4. Do you think the poet's description of the movement of the humming bird particularly happy, when she speaks of it as, "A route of evanescence with a revolving wheel?"
5. Where is Tunis located?
6. Point out the analogy existing between the first and second stanzas in, '"'Chartless."
7. What are the implied morals in the three poems, "The Robin," "If I Can Stop One Heart From Breaking," and "Chartless?"
LESSON IV (Fourth Week in March)
Social Service
The Unstable Family
Human experiences of various kinds have the power to shake and uproot even the finest convictions and the most dependable ideals. Frequently, we see individuals who have been thoroughly dependable, who have been as stable as the most steadfast rock, disintegrate and crumble to pieces. The elements in human experience that cause this change from stability to instability often are obscure and difficult to analyze. But it is important to those who are working with individuals and families to attempt to gain an understanding of the experiences and influences that cause this deterioration. The term unstable as applied to individuals or families cannot be given an exact definition. An unstable family may be one that misfortune, such as sickness, accident, or death, has disrupted, leaving some of the members without the normal family ties. Or it may be one that has been broken by more subtle destroying influences, with the result that one or both of the parents desert or neglect the children, shifting the responsibility of their 48 care to relatives, friends, or public agencies. An unstable family may be one that lives together, but where selfishness and bitterness have broken the real bonds of affection and solidarity. An unstable family can be recognized not entirely by its exterior mode of living but also by its inner life, by the attitude of the members toward one another, by the depth of affection, by the presence or undue selfishness, and by the lack of willingness of each one to shoulder the burdens of the others. The most obvious manifestations of instability?desertion,. Divorce, and the neglect of children?often come to the attention of family agencies. The treatment that is usually applied is not very effective. The deserter or the parent who neglects his children can be summoned to court and the state may order him to provide for his family, or it may remove the children from his custody.. While such measures are necessary in extreme cases, the remedy applied does not affect the real problem. Long b-fore desertion or neglect of family responsibilities brings a family to the attention of an agency or results in court charges, the insidious elements that cause family disintegration are at work. In order to understand and treat the disrupted family, it is necessary to know what experiences, circumstances and misfortunes brought about the disruption. It may be possible, then, with an understanding of the factors that were responsible for the deterioration, to rebuild the family to a level of stability. New habits and more wholesome attitudes must be introduced. The broken family must be given a better understanding of the causes of their failures, and they must be given courage to start the process of reconstruction. It is, of course, more far-sighted to recognize early symptoms and possible causes of family instability and to control as far as possible the circumstances which later would lead to serious difficulties. One of the most fundamental factors in insuring stability in any given family and thus preventing possible disruption is the ability of young married couples to learn to adjust early to the responsibilities of marriage and parenthood. Where an individual, for example, a man, lives alone he may do largely as he pleases. Upon the entrance of a second individual into his life, such as a woman who becomes his wife, adjustment must begin immediately in order to insure peace. Upon the advent of a third individual, such as a child born to a young couple, further adjustments are necessary on the part of the parents. And, in proportion as the family increases in number, adjustment must take place in the same ratio. Petty annoyances caused by oversights, small failures, or quick temper can be serious irritants in the family circle. The 50 Questions and Problems 1. What are some of the manifestations of an unstable family? 2, What are some of the causes? 3. Discuss a constructive, preventive plan which, in your opinion, would help to insure family solidarity and prevent disruption. 4. Why do women sometimes get discouraged? 5. Why do men sometimes desert their families? 6. Is it a wise policy to permit deserted wives to place children in orphanages? What should be done by a social worker before children are removed from homes because of neglect? Supplement to October Theology Lesson Published in August Magazine In answer to the question: "Who were the 'ninety and nine' in the Parable of the Good Shepherd as recorded in Luke 15:2- 7?" the following is submitted: _ "A direct application of the parable appears in the Lord's concise address to the Pharisees and scribes: "I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons, which need no repentance.' Were they, the ninety and nine, who, by self-estimation had strayed not, being 'just persons, which need no repentance?' Some readers say they catch this note of just sarcasm in the Master's concluding words. In the earlier part of the story, the Lord himself appears as the solicitous Shepherd, and by plain implication his example is such as the theocratic leaders ought to emulate. Such a conception puts the Pharisees and scribes in the position of shepherds rather than of sheep. Both explications are tenable; and each is of value as portraying the status and duty of professing servants of the Master in all ages."'?Page 455 Jesus the Christ by James E. Talmage. "Many have marveled that there should be greater rejoicing over the recovery of one stray sheep, or the saving of a soul that had been as one lost, than over the many who have not been in such jeopardy. In the safe-folded ninety and nine the Shepherd had continued joy; but to him came a new accession of happiness, brighter and stronger because of his recent grief, when the lost was brought back to the fold."?Page 390, Jesus the Christ, by James E. Talmage. In keeping with what is known of the matchless teaching GUIDE LESSONS FOR MARCH 51 ability of Jesus we may think of his illustrations in reaching the various points of contact, in classes and individuals, consistently interpretable from more than one point of view. To the Pharisees, were not the "ninety and nine" intended to represent that self-righteous class? To the disciples, the "ninety and nine' were no doubt considered as those who were safe in the kingdom, a constant joy to the Lord, but who would be relatively forgotten, for the moment, in the flood of joy that accompanied the rescue of a human soul. It would be an occasion when the joy of the triumph of the rescuer, and the joy of the Presence of the rescued, meet and form a current of gladsomeness that, for the moment, sweep all other joys into forgetfulness. This high tide of happiness occasioned by repentance will not, however, at once carry the repentant one to a place of permanent preference even equal to those who have not taken long the detour route to heaven. It seems safe to say that to the self-righteous Pharisees the patable was a rebuke: they were to see themselves as the "ninety and nine." To the disciples the parable was a sermon on the value of a soul: they were to see the "ninety and nine" as angels in heaven joining in the rejoicing in which they were quite forgotten. George H. Brimhall. Outline of Guide Lessons for 1925 A brief outline of the Guide Lessons for the coming year is here given: The Theological department will study these subjects under the general heading of "The Dispensations of the Gospel," under this will come: 1. The Adamic Dispensation, 2. The Noachian Dispensation. 3. The Abrahamic Dispensation. 4, The Mosaic Dispensation, 5. The Messianic Dispensation. The Literary department will continue the study of American authors, and will take up such writers as, Sidney Lanier, Emily Dickenson, James Whitcomb Riley, Eugene Field, Edwin Markham, Joaquin Miller, Amy Lowell and others. Subjects vital to the home and community will be discussed by the teachers during the year 1925. These are The Observance of the Quarantine Law, The Curfew Law, Milk?Its Care and Use, House and Town Clean-Up; The Fly,