[Vol8 | September 1921 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Church School Education Susa Young Gates]

Church School Education ' By Susa Young Gates. More and more the people of this Church should carefully and prayerfully consider just how, just when, and just where they shall educate their boys and girls. No more important question than this looms up for our present day consideration. The Cl. Urch has spent hundreds of thousands. Of dollars, in the past half century, both to erect buildings, equip departments, and to pay salaries to the faithful teachers who have made and who still do make many sacrifices to remain in the employ of the various Ckurch schools scattered from Canada to Mexico. The thoughtless may ask, "Why spend money? The state and the government are both able and quite willing to take upon themselves this heavy financial burden, and therefore why should this people tax themselves and the Church for this purpose?" These are pertinent questions; and it is the purpose of this article, together with the communications obtained from some of our leading educators, to answer the questions and to lay before our readers the facts in the case. It is interesting to know that nearly all of the great schools and universities of this country, as well as of Europe, were started by religious bodies, with the same avowed purpose which lay at the root of Brigham Young's determination to provide education which should not only train the mind, but should also train the spirit at the same time. Harvard, Yale, Columbia, Washington universities; these with Oxford and Cambridge in England, are among the famous universities which owe their birth to the religious ideals of their founders. Wise men realize. That nations established on the high moral and spiritual planes which form the teachings of the Christian Bible are the only safe and sane foundations that shall make stable and sure the life and perpetuity of nations and peoples. A party of distinguished 
 Chinese came not long since to America to study the life-results of a nation which was founded on modern religious ideals. Stopping only in New England and Utah they explained to the Utah scholar who piloted them about our city, that only New England and Utah were so pioneered. And further, they said, that their own nation, established by Confucius, on ethics alone, was fast disintegrating and rotting at the core. It is true that American and English universities have long ago relaxed their stern vigilance over the individual beliefs and characters of those who attended the schools. Men, of course, must be honorable and acceptable in the worldly sense who attend these famous institutions, but their religion and their morals, in so far as chastity is concerned, are not enquired into. Most of them have so-called Divinity Colleges attached to their regular courses where religious education on broad lines may be obtained. Then, there are various and many religious colleges and Academies scattered throughout the land. Most of the sects possess such schools, where their preachers and divines are educated for the ministry. But it must also be stated that the daily study and programs of all of these leading universities is absolutely free of any religious teaching or bias. Rather is their boast that all sects and creeds find a broad tolerance that fosters the agnostic attitude rather than any debatable religious teachings. It is to be hoped that our own schools will never be so liberal. Catholics, who have far more virility than any other modern sect, even more than the ubiquitous Jew, refuse countenance to those who school their children in any but approved institutions. Why, therefore, should we take serious thought concerning Church school education? What is this thing we call education anyway? Is it obtained only in schools and from books? Hardly. If that were so, all the founders of this Church from the prophet Joseph Smith down to our present president and leader, Heber J. Grant, would be termed uneducated, and unlearned. Orson Pratt was one of the greatest of modern mathematicians and philosophers; and yet, small education had he in schools or from books. So with the Prophet, with Brigham Young, and with those great and learned men who surrounded them. Education is gained by study, of books, yes, but also by study of men, and of nature in all its forms. Books are merely the opinions of men who have studied things out in various ways. Books and teachers give us help in crossing over from the land of ignorance to the land of learning. We could go on foot, others have done so, and are doing so every day; but if we can find a shorter way, or get a lift into some fast vehicle we can save time and vitality CHURCH SCHOOL EDUCATION 499 by that lift. That is all that schools and books do for us. They give us a lift by the way. In accepting a lift, however, we should be extremely careful that the driver is safe, the auto is sound, and that our fellow pasengers are neither drunk nor afflicted with contagious diseases. We would better walk than to be led through the swamps and miasmas of doubt, despair, unbelief, or to be insulated with double standards of virtue. Schools of today as of anicent times, teach all that is known of the arts and the sciences. They give little children small problems, little mental tasks, and primitive lessons which combine concrete and practical examples along with deep, fundamental truths. As the child advances he receives more difficult problems, more complex reasonings, but each is connected by a little thread with the simple lessons he got at the primary grades. In college and in the university, he is not only given the newest and best thoughts—of others—in arts and sciences, but he is also encouraged to think out for himself new lines of endeavor, and to develop original branches of research. He himself is studied and he is encouraged to study life from the physical, the moral and the intellectual angle. He has his courses of study, his curriculum arranged so as to develop him along these three lines. But his religious life is left entirely to his home or to his church, if he has any. Some may ask, what is the difference between the moral and the spiritual? A simple answer is that the study of morals or ethics is ithe study of manners and behavior; while religion is the study of God and his laws. In other words, ethics comprises the relationships of man to man, while religion takes up our relationship to God. All the arts, all the sciences fall into the three divisions of physical, moral and intellectual progress. It is a known fact that science does not agree with the world's religious teachings. At least, with the religious teachings outside this Church. Neither does art, in a certain sense. All the more reason why we should study art and science by the light of pure revelation. Books which have been written and teachers who have been trained in other religions and therefore in other schools than ours disagree with us in many fundamental points. For instance: they teach. That revelation is impossible today. We know better. They answer any statement of ours concerning the Prophet's first vision, by saying, that it was a delusion, a halucination. We know better. They teach that there is no divine authority on the earth, and no Priesthood which gives men the right to administer in the ordinances of the gospel—that is, all but the Catholics teach this last, and we know better. They all, every 
 one of them, Catholics, Protestants and Agnostics, teach that there is no such thing as a pre-existent state, especially as regards our having had a distinct personality or ego before we came on this earth. We know better. They teach that there is no family association after death, and we know better. They teach that marriage is for this life only. We know better. They do not believe in the visitation of angels, nor do they accept for one moment the idea of present day revelation. We know that this, too, is false. Faith is to the scientist a necessary part of his own experiments, but is scoffed at as a religious belief. Scientists pick up first one theory and then another, announce it with a flourish of trumpets, with some cautious holdbacks, but with sufficient assurance to knock any one's wavering faith into small bits—and then they sometimes discover that, after all, they were wrong. See the fuss that has been made about evolution— now the most sanguine scientists are ready to admit that evolution after all has been carried too far, and that most of its doctrines are untenable. So with many other faith-destroying teachings. Science knows nothing but what can be proved, and yet must start out with some faith—hypothesis, they call it,—and then the philosopher goes merrily on to build up great theories out of his faith, or hypothesis. Of course, science has done many marvelous things; but science should be founded on truth; for right science and right faith can never disagree. So that when we set our youths to study philosophy they should have their feet firmly planted on the rock of revelation, and let all truth bemeasured by that standard. The Catholic church, knowing the vast dangers that await the youthful student, prepares all its own text-books, censors all its studies, and even censors the daily papers and novels al- 'lowed to the orthodox. We need not be thus narrow; but at least we should prepare our youths with a divine measuring rod of their own with which to weigh and measure every lesson, every book and every teacher and school room which makes a part of their daily lives. The Church school system aims to do this, and so far, has lived up faithfully to that aim. This Church school system might be said to originate with the Prophet Joseph Smith; for, in Nauvoo, as told by Bancroft, the historian: 'There was a University established, though having no separate edifices." This was in 1843. 'The president of the university and professor of mathematics and English literature is James Kelly, a graduate of Trinity College, Dublin, and a ripe scholar; Orson Pratt, a man of pure mind and high order of ability, who, without early education and amidst great difficulties, had tto achieve learning as best he could, and in truth has achieved it; professor of languages, Orson Spencer, gradu- CHURCH SCHOOL EDUCATION 501 ate of Union College, and the Baptist Theological Seminary, New York; professor of church history, Sidney Rigdon, versed in history, belles-lettres, and oratory. In the board of regents we find the leading men of the Church; connected with the university were four common-school wards, with three wardens to each." Then came the pioneer schools of Utah. And, by the year 1870, the completion of the railroads and the influx of non- "Mormons" into the territory made President Brigham Young feel that we should have our own Church schools and he proceeded to put his inspiration into active operation, as he always did. So, by 1873, he established the school at Provo, which bears his name. One was started at Logan, and one projected 'in Salt Lake, but was not made possible because of his death at that time, 1877. From these schools have gone out the men and women who stand at the head of nearly every ward, stake, auxiliary organization, and even of the general quorums of the Church. The counsel which Karl G. Maeser, that greatest of all our educators, received from President Young when he went down to open the first Church school in Provo, was simple and forceful—it embodies the genius of Church-school teaching; said he to Brother Maeser: "Don't try to teach the multiplication table without the Spirit of the Lord." There is the key-note. Nothing, ever so great or ever so small, shall be passed on to our children that is not informed and inspired by the Spirit of all truth, all wisdom; that wisdom which comes by prayer and the authority of the priesthood. | It is interesting to know that the first industrial education projected in this country came out of the B. Y. Academy, as it was then called. In the deed of trust, President Young directed that "every pupil should be taught some branch of mechanism"— quaint word—in addition to his intellectual training. Then, too, the first musical department known in this country to be attached to a school was begun in this school in 1878. Again, the first matron, and the first ladies' Art Department was opened there, in 1878-9. The pioneer school hygiene was instituted there by Dr. M. H. Hardy, in 1879. The Domestic Science work was introduced there in 1892, just after the opening of our state Agricultural College. So that this school has pioneered the way in many vital directions. We may well believe that inspiration has marked Church schools from the beginning. Another important phase of our Church education that ls rarely mentioned but which is very important to women, is the fact that never has there been any bar to the highest training. For women in any of these institutions. From the days of the 
 Nauvoo university there has been no sex-division. That also marks us as pioneers. For no school in the world beyond the primary grade at that time admitted girls to equal rank with boys in the higher grades, Today, our schools have entered into another phase of evolution, correct evolution at that. We see them forging forward, under the vigorous young leadership appointed by the authorities, and we may feel sure that there is much history to be written in the next decade of our Church schools.