[Vol8 | September 1921 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: From the Watch Tower Laura Moench Jenkins]

From the Watch Tower By Laura Moench Jenkins Night's darkness encircled the earth with her veil, In spirit I wandered afar— Where mountain peaks echo the wind's dying wail, Through gateways forever ajar. My guide bade me pause and I gazed on a scene Of wonder and beauty untold: Beneath me earth slumbered so calm and serene And we. Tchmen, strict vigils did hold. But look! A dark cloud from the east seems to rise, Like magic, gain bigness and power, Covering with blackness the once placid skies, And hearts with afright seem to cower, See nations 'gainst brother fight sore, And neighbor 'gainst neighbor in warfare engage, Red War sweeps the earth o'er and o'er. Lo, famine's dark figure strides stolid and bold, And pestilence stalks by her side, Together they slay where red war did withhold, And none from their fury can hide. I turned in dismay from the horrible sight; My guide bade me look to the west, In silence I turned me, and lo, from the height Of mountain top's white rugged crest— FROM THE WATCH TOWER | 531 A light from a watch tow'r shines forth bright and clear, A city o'er shadowed with wings,; Built high in the mountains, a stranger to fear, While peace round her portals. Still clings, Her temple spires, pointing to mansions above, Communion divine seem to hold; Fair advocates pleading for mercy and love, Can God his compassion withhold? O Zion, I know thee! No stranger art thou, Though hidden from wrath of the day, God knew thee aforetime, his seal on thy brow He placed, when he hid thee away, To nurture thee kindly and train in his fear, Till judgments have swept the earth clean; When forth thou shalt come and in glory appear, To cover the earth with thy sheen, "A bride for a bridegroom," my guide whispered low. "The righteous are hastening the work; The time draweth nigh as the faithful ones know, And labor, with never a shirk; Preparing a Zion on earth fit to meet The Zion preparing above. They'll meet in true gladness ecstatic'ly greet, United in heavenly love." Then onward we sped over ether waves blue, A land of great brightness I spied: A city of turrets and tow'rs rose to view, Where spirits departed abide. And hither and thither I saw them pass by, From morn till night time was nigh: Preparing in grandeur the mansions on high, iAnd building a Zion on High. Where souls of the righteous redemption shall gain, And glory celestial shall know, And come with our Savior forever to reign, When Zion meets Zion below, Though dead they shall live, in God's mercy and grace, E'en "added upon" at his will: Till immortal being doth mortal efface, Advancing eternally still.