[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | October | Issue: 4 | Title: Henry Browne Blackwell | Author: the suffrage women of the country, be-]

HENRY BROWNE BLACKWELL.
	Two very celebrated great men, H. B.
Blackwell and W. L. Garrison, have died
quite recently that will be greatly missed
by the suffrage women of the country, be-
cause of their advocacy of equal rights and
the strength of helpfulness to the cause of
humanity along many lines of uplifting.
They were contemporary with some of the
very greatest men that New England has
produced, and almost the last of those we
are wont to call “the old school.” They
were among the promoters of anti-slavery
and other notable reforms. Of this class
too were Whittier and Holmes, Wendell
Phillips, Theodore Parker, Thomas Went-
worth Higginson and George Wm. Curtis,
the Alcotts, Edward Everett Hale, and many
illustrous women of the same sterling inte-
grity, who were associated in the work, Lu-
cretia Mott, Lucy Stone, Mary A. Livermore,
Harriet Beecher Stowe, Elizabeth Cady Stan-
ton, Frances E. Willard and Susan B. An-
thony; now only Julia Ward Howe and Car-
oline M. Severance remain of that bright
galaxy of men and women of that early pe-
riod—yet we must not pass over the two
sisters and the sister in law of Henry Browne
Blackwell each of them we might say equal-
ly celebrated, Dr. Elizabeth Blackwell now
aged 87, Dr. Emily Blackwell, aged 83, and
Rev. Antoinette Browne Blackwell, names
familiar to all the progressive women of our
time, and well known in the annals of his-
tory of the forward movements of the nine-
teenth and twentieth centuries.
	The tributes paid to the life and work of
these great men would fill volumes, yet they
suffered persecution because of espousing a

[Column 2]
then unpopular cause, that has since been
characterized as a righteous and noble
undertaking. So goes the world, John Green-
leaf Whittier wrote of the late Mr. Blackwell
the following verse which is truly expressive
of his loyalty to woman kind.

	“Never woman in her suffering saw
		A helper tender, true and brave as he,
	Lifting her burden of unrighteous law
		He shames the boast of ancient chivalry.”

	The beautiful tributes paid to Mr. Black-
well by his devoted and widely beloved
daughter Alice Stone Blackwell are most
tender and touching, expressing as they do
the purest sentiments of love and trust. At
the close of her In Memoriam she gives these
grand and telling words of Garibaldi to
Josephine E. Butler. “Remember that,
though we pass away, and the leaders of a
cause fall one by one, principles never die;
they are eternal, world-wide and unchange-
able.”
	Mr. Blackwell was at the Suffrage Con-
vention in Seattle in July of this year climb-
ing mountains and taking part in all the
strenuous work of the campaign for suffrage.
He was wonderfully vigorous to the very
last, only the Sunday before his illness he
walked three miles over rough hills and along
the cliffs on the south shore of Martha’s
Vineyard in the early morning, and while
he was ill in bed he referred to that trip to
the Vineyard and how he had enjoyed it.
Mr. Blackwell strongly disapproved of show
and expense at funerals and repeatedly im-
pressed upon his daughter (his only child)
“that when he passed away he wished to
have only a simple pine box.” Henry
Browne Blackwell was born May 4, 1825,
died Sept. 7, 1909. Doubtless most of our
readers know he was the husband of Lucy
Stone of wide-world fame. At the time of
the courtship of this illustrious couple Lucy
Stone “was the best known advocate of
woman’s rights in the country, and a set of
verses had not long before appeared in the
Boston papers describing the fervent grati-
tude that awaited the valiant man who
should marry her and by matrimony (it was
assumed) reduce her to silence.”

	A name like Curtiss shall be his,
		On Fame’s loud trumpet blown,
	Who with a wedding kiss shuts up
		The mouth of Lucy Stone.

	Perhaps this little verse may give some of
our young people an idea of how the early
advocates of woman’s rights were ridiculed
and not only that but persecuted.
	The writer recalls many pleasant inter-
views with this genial chivalrous gentleman,
he had known a number of our people in
the early days of the Church in Ohio and
had some business transactions with them
of which he spoke favorably, remembering
their business capacity of which he spoke in
terms of praise, mentioning particularly
Hyrum Kimball and Joseph L. Heywood.
Mr. Blackwell was a man of tremendous
power in speaking and in writing.
	(Unfinished article by the Editor)


