
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - - - - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - First Counselor Velma N. Simonsen - - - - - Second Counselor Margaret C. Pickering - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Mery Si eee Evon W. Peterson Christine H. Robinson Charlotte A. Larsen Pane =" aie Leone O. Jacobs Alberta H. Christensen Edith P. Backman 5 i. Elliott Mary J. Wilson Mildred B. Eyring. Winniefred 5S. " orence J. Madsen Louise W. Madsen Helen W. Anderson Manwaring eone G. Layton Aleine M. Young Gladys S. Boyer Elna P. Haymond. Blanche B. Stoddard Josie B. Bay RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor - cS - - - - - ns a Associate Editor E General Manager - Marianne C. Sharp - Vesta P. Crawford - - aa - - - - Belle S. Spafford 

Vol. 41 MAY 1954 NO. 5
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES
Mother by Edith Price Backman 284 Mother's Influence 286 A Mother's Prayer for Her Son by Wilma B. Bunker 286 The Birth of a Heritage — The Gospel in England by Elsie Scott 287 Coronation on Temple Square by Roxana Farnsworth Hase 290 Miracles and Mother by Eileen Gibbons 298 Say It With Flowers by Norma W. South 304 Anniversary Souvenirs by Mabel Law Atkinson 311 With No Regrets by Myrtle M. Dean 323 Thou Shalt Never Cease to Grow by Caroline Eyring Miner 326 "Magazine" Money Banks 327
FICTION
Lest She Forget by Hazel K. Todd 291 Things Will Be Different by Virginia M. Kammeyer 306 The Right Decision by Frances C. Yost 312 The Deeper Melody — Chapter 8 — Conclusion by Alice Morrey Bailey 318
GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 300 Woman's Sphere by Ramona W. Cannon 301 Editorial: Portrait of Mother by Vesta P. Crawford 302 New Serial, "The Falling Shackles," to Begin in June 303 "Magazine" Subscriptions for 1953 by Marianne C. Sharp 328 The "Magazine" Honor Roll for 1953 333 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities by Margaret C. Pickering 336 From Near and Far 344
FEATURES FOR THE HOME
Preserving Metal Planters by Elizabeth Williamson 305 Launder That White Shirt Yourself by Ruth K. Kent 310 Sina Mortensen — Woman of Many Hobbies 317
POETRY
Maytime in the Valley — Frontispiece by Beatrice K. Ekman 283 Cycle by Mary Ellen B. Workman 296 Deserted Garden by Matia McClelland Burk 297 Wisdom by Marjorie Foote 303 Morning Glories by Evelyn Fjeldsted 309 Mother Love by Hannah C. Ashby 315 "So Shall We Reap" by Maryhale Woolsey 316 Come Gently, Spring by Christie Lund Coles 317 Fallen Giant by Josephine J. Harvey 325 Motherhood by Ivinetta R. Oliver 325 Vacation Just Beyond by Mary Gustafson 326 For Wood Violets by Ethel Jacobson 341 Bright Hour by Grace Sayre 342 The Olden Days and the New by Camilla Alexander 343

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 40 Nerth Main, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 15c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Tlaytime in the Valley Beatrice K. Ekman The sun has climbed the morning stair And myriad insects strum the air; Out of the meadow lark's smooth throat Melodic strains of rapture float Across the valley's pulsing breast. From mountains east to mountains west, The emerald robe of spring is laid, Dappled with sunlight and cloud shade. The sego-lily chalice spills Gold pollen on the kneeling hills; From rock-walled canyons, clear streams flow To the lush pasture lands below, Where spiders weave a silver loom On wild rose hedges, pink with bloom; And blossomed plum adds nuances of grace With airy petals of white lace. The Cover: Channel Drive, Santa Barbara, California Photograph by Josef Muench Frontispiece: White Carnations, Photograph by Ward Linton Cover Design by Evan Jensen Mother's Influence Edith Price Backman Member, General Board of Relief Society Her children rise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her (Proverbs 31:28). FE, are commanded to: Ifonour thy father and thy mother, as the Lord thy God hath commanded thee; that thy days may be prolonged, and that it may go well with thee, in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee (Deut. 5:16). It is gratifying that our nation has sought to encourage and cultivate every sentiment which binds men and women to the home and which exalts motherhood. There cannot be homes without mothers, for they are the homemakers; and without homes the nation cannot long endure. A man's success and triumphs mean more to his mother than to himself. She never loses faith in him; she never forgets him; she never forsakes him. Her implicit faith in him is one of the beautiful things in life and a great influence in the world. Joseph Smith said, "The love of a true mother comes nearer being like the love of God than any other kind of love." Mothers had a great influence in establishing The Church of Jesus Christ in this dispensation. 'They experienced the hardships, persecutions, and privations incident to pioneer life. Because of their true testimony of the divinity of Jesus Christ, they were able to brave the many hardships which they encountered. From the lives of these great women may we learn to sacrifice more, to give more of our Page 284 real selves to the work of God, to instill in our children an abiding testimony, and a desire to serve him and keep his commandments. Many widows' sons have achieved nobly in the earth, and have attributed their success to the teachings and influence of their mothers. President Heber J. Grant gave us this burning testimony of what his mother meant to him: I live today as one whose mother was all to me. She set an example of integrity, of devotion and love,. And of dctermination and honor second to none. Her life was a sermon that rings through my soul to this day. One of the main reasons I am President of the Church today is that I have followed the advice and counsel and the burning testimony of the Lord Jesus Christ, which came to me from my Mother. During the troubled war days of George Washington, Mary Ball Washington, mother of the First President of the United States, in order to keep her faith strong would often say, "The mothers and wives of brave men must be brave women." She also said, "George is apt to succeed in anything he undertakes. He was always a good boy." This is an example of the implicit faith and confidence a mother has ~ in her children. Nancy Hanks, mother of Lincoln, was a woman of simplicity and strength, living in the poorest kind of shack in the wilderness of Kentucky. Even though she may have MOTHER'S INFLUENCE felt the pinch of poverty, she did her duty toward this boy tenderly. As she spoke some of her last words to her nine-year-old son, this was her plea, her hope, "Be somebody, Abe." His kindness, humor, humility, and his hatred of slavery came from his mother. His love and affection for her were expressed in the statement he made saying, "All that I am or all that I ever hope to be I owe to my angel mother." N our own Book of Mormon, when the Nephites and the Lamanites were warring among themselves, they were given certain promises if they would keep the commandments of God, and told if they did not, destruction would follow. 'Then we have the marvelous record of two thousand Lamanite boys—just boys—who joined the army of the Nephites in order to help preserve themselves and their families. But they had been taught by their mothers that God would protect them if they would do their duty. These two thousand boys, part of the army of the Nephites, went into battle repeatedly, and the last struggle was so terrible that, we are told, all were wounded. When Helaman, their captain, saw their enemies driven away he was anxious for his young charges (he called them striplings, just boys) and he went among the dead and gathered them to find out how many were living. He found everyone of them alive, although many had fainted from the loss of blood. When Helaman, who was amazed at their miraculous preservation, questioned them concerning it, 285 their response was one of the greatest compliments to motherhood to be found anywhere: ". We do not doubt our mothers knew it" (Alma 56:48). They believed what their mothers taught them. 'They had faith in God. They were preserved, and they helped save their homes and families from destruction. Some mothers have fallen below these standards, and some have exerted but little influence in_ the world. 'There are many women, who because of riches or other influences, have become idle, selfish, and miserable. 'They are not the mothers who inspire their children to become the leaders of men; but the overwhelming majority of mothers are brave, pure, sincere, and selfforgetful. The observance of Mother's Day has created an opportunity to express the love and gratitude we feel toward our mothers. Many beautiful tributes and honors are heaped upon us that day. Have we magnified our greatest of all callings, motherhood? Are we, as mothers in Zion, worthy of all these beautiful tributes? Are we living up to our obligations as mothers in The Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints to teach our children the truths of the gospel, and to be living examples of its principles? We read in Proverbs 22:6: Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it. If we teach our children to honor the Priesthood, the sanctity of eternal marriage, to keep the Sabbath day holy, to observe the law & 286 of tithing, to hold family prayer, to be honest, truthful, and virtuous, to have love in their hearts for one another and for their Heavenly Father, we know they will not depart from these teachings. Every day will be Mother's Day, and our children will grow and develop to be useful men and women, upholding the highest ideals and principles of the gospel. A report was given in a recent stake conference that only one half of the missionaries interviewed in that stake to go on missions for the Church, reported family prayers were being held in their homes. Think what a priceless opportunity the parents of these young men are losing by not having family prayers, *K *K RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 where the bonds of love, unity, and security could be established _permanently in the home. President David O. McKay said: One of the greatest needs in the world today is intelligent, conscientious motherhood. It is to the home we must look for the inculcation of the fundamental virtues which contribute to human welfare and happiness. Motherhood is the greatest potential influence either for good or ill in human life. May we as mothers be that potential influence for good in our families and realize the highest ambition of true mothers, that of rearing families of noble, successful, righteous children, who will arise up and call us blessed. K K A IMlothers Prayer for Her Son Wilma B. Bunker BulLP me a son, O Lord, wise enough to know the right and brave enough to do it. May he be as strong in defeat as in victory. Rear him, I pray, not in the ways of ease pA comfort, but under the stress of difficulties and challenges. Give him the strength to meet these challenges with courage and resolution. May his daily life be clean and triumphant, his goal high and worthy. Teach him that mastery of self always precedes mastery of others. Build me a son who will have compassion for those who have failed and forgiveness for those who have hurt him. Help him to realize that true happiness comes from service to others—to forget oneself in a great and good cause. And after all these are his, add, I pray, enough of a sense of humor so that he will not take himself too seriously; enough optimism so that those around him are lifted up; and enough humility so that he will never cease to be modest, humble, and unpretending. And help him, O Lord, to remember that thou art ever present if he will but seek thee, I pray. The Birth of a Heritage — The Gospel in England Elsie Scott EMBERS of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who visit Preston, England, whether they be from other towns in Great Britain or from America, almost invariably express the pleasure and interest they feel in being privileged to visit this historic town and to see the places which played such a vital part in the propagation of the gospel in this land. It was about four in the afternoon of the 22d of July 1837 that Heber C. Kimball, Willard Richards, Orson Hyde, and _ Joseph Fielding, with three brethren from Canada, John Goodson, Isaac Russell, and John Snyder, arrived in Preston. They had landed in Liverpool, but lingered there only long enough to seek guidance from the Lord, and in answer to their prayers were directed to continue their journey to Preston, another thirty miles — a much longer journey then than it is today. Elections, commanded by the new Queen Victoria, were taking place with much celebration as these weary men, strangers in a strange land, entered the town of Preston. They were heartened by the message on a banner unfurled, almost above their heads, which stated in gilt letters "TRuTH WILL PrevaiL." An omen? A message to the messengers? Truth did indeed prevail. It was opportune that one of the missionaries, Joseph Fielding, had a brother in Preston, a minister, and while Joseph went to visit with his brother, the other brethren found lodging in Wilfred Street, but visited with the Rev. James Fielding on the evening of arrival where they discussed the restoration of the gospel. An invitation to attend the Vaux Hall chapel next day was speedily accepted, as was the later invitation to address the congregation. This was a direct answer to the prayer of Heber C. Kimball that the Lord would open the way for them to preach. Viewing the sadly forsaken, dilapidated chapel today, with its rows of empty seats, it is difficult to imagine the large congregation that gathered on that Sabbath day to hear these strange men who spoke of angels again visiting the earth, restoring the gospel in all its truth to men. Of that first public meeting to be held in Great Britain on the 23d of July 1837, Elder Kimball has this to say: I declared that an angel had visited the earth and committed the everlasting Gospel to man; called their attention to the first principles of the Gospel; and gave them a brief history of the work which the Lord had commenced on the earth; after which Elder Hyde bore testimony to the same, which was received by many with whom I afterwards conversed; they cried, "Glory to God," and rejoiced that the Lord had sent His servants unto them. Thus was the key turned and the Gospel dispensation opened on the Page 287 288 first Sabbath after gg in England (Wuitney, Orson F.: Life of Heber C. Kimball, page 125). HAT the field was white and ready to harvest is proved by the way the people of Preston accepted the message and flocked to hear more of the glorious truths. The Rev. James Fielding, finding his congregation, and with them his livelihood, leaving, closed the chapel doors to the missionaries, but the Lord's work could not be impeded, and many of the people invited the elders to preach in their homes. So great was their success that several people were anxious to be baptized at the end of the elders' first week in England., No person who reads the Bible and believes can doubt the existence any, Bs — j, od a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 of evil spirits, and it was in the room where the elders lodged in Wilfred Street, the encounter with the hosts of evil occurred, on the morning of the day on which the baptisms were to be performed, Sunday, 30th July, 1837 Enraged, no doubt, at the success the elders were having in guiding the people in the truth, the forces of evil made a determined effort to destroy the lives and plans of the missi@naries, "Weber "C. Kimball recounts: About daybreak Elder Isaac Russell who slept with Elder Richards in Wilfred Street, came up to the third story, where Elder Hyde and myself were ane ing, and called out, "Brother Kimball, want you should get up and pray for me that I may be delivered from the evil spirits that are tormenting me to such a PAK HALL Ob Pad Bs ee OAPI TULA GAP TIST oF Sr AOE Ae te a Aan fi. A eg 4 = a oo Courtesy Church Historian's Office VAUX HALL, PRESTON, ENGLAND THE GOSPEL IN ENGLAND 289 INTERIOR OF THE PRESTON BRANCH CHAPEL degree that I feel I cannot live long unless I obtain relief (Wutrney, Orson F.: Life of Heber C. Kimball, page 129). The elders arose and laid their hands on the tormented man, FIder Kimball being mouth, and prayed to the Lord, and rebuked the devil, but Elder Kimball himself was struck by some unseen power and fell senseless on the floor. When he recovered, they continued to pray, and a vision was opened to the minds of these great men. 'They saw legions of evil spirits coming towards them like armies rushing to battle, angry and desperate. Is it to be wondered at that Elder Kimball stated that he could never look back on that scene without feelings of horror? Yet by it, horrifying though it was, they learned the great power of the opposing forces and the Lord did not forsake them. HOSE early missionaries had undaunted faith; they had a strong testimony of the divinity of the work they were called to do; and through Preston. Not all the power of hell could turn them from their purpose. Indeed, it is likely that their vision strengthened their testimonies and their determination to go forward and spread the gospel to all who would hear it. And so the time set for the baptisms found the elders on the banks of the River Ribble, which runs 'They were not alone, however. Great interest had been aroused in the minds of the people. Baptizing as practiced by this strange new Church was something unheard of, and it is recorded that between seven and nine thousand people gathered to witness the baptisms of these first nine converts. There is a story told about the first woman in England to enter the waters of baptism. She was Ann Elizabeth Walmsley, who is said to have been in the last stages of tuberculosis, and had been warned by her doctor that to enter the cold waters of the river would be fatal for her. Her faith was strong, however, and she was carried to the riverside and was baptized. 290 What stories this picturesque river could tell if it were able to speak! But surely none would be more inspiring than the events of that Sabbath. Only on one other such occasion has an event attracted people in their thousands, and that was the visit of President RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 Heber J. Grant, who unveiled the plaque on the 27th of July 1937, commemmorating those first baptisms a century before. Preston Branch holds a firm place in the British Mission, and proud are the Preston saints of their heritage and their lovely new chapel. *K *K *K *K Cocontiion Roxana Farnsworth Hase Ov of doors Spring stretched her graceful, fragrant fingers almost across the pebbled walk leading up to the white house. It was as though she wished that she might venture clear inside. Yet, a bit of her glory was there, for the second daughter had gathered enough lovely white blossoms to fill the blue vase on the table in the room. She had taken them in quietly, and no one had bade her stay. Perhaps they thought her too young. The room was hushed, as though church might be about to begin. Yet, this was not a church, but a small, clean room. The people there were assembled for a particular purpose. Each one was busy with his or her own thoughts and tasks. This was an eventful day. The world at large had never even heard of the woman who was soon to be crowned a queen there. She was young and beautiful, with a certain radiance of countenance hard to describe. Her coronation was not a sudden, spur of the moment thing, as though someone had abdicated. It had been in preparation for almost a year. 'The principals had been well instructed as to what to expect and do. The preparations, while adequate, were by no means elaborate. The queen's gown was of snowy white cotton. It boasted no fine handmade imported lace or golden threads. There was no mile-long train, no ermine robe, no richly accoutered retinue, no high-stepping steeds with rich trappings. Missing was the martial music and gay aplomb, yet the expectancy of the moment filled all the room. The one person who could make the coronation a certainty had not yet arrived. It was this momentarily expected presence which gave such a somber air to the proceedings. Off to one side an elderly lady was praying with bowed head. She was the queen mother, and perhaps the most concerned of all, to have everything go off well. 'The queen herself, as she waited almost breathlessly, seemed in a tranquil state, for this was her day. The silence became more intense. No one so much as whispered. Then in an instant all was changed. 'The awaited guest had arrived! "It is a boy!" the doctor announced happily, and a lusty wail let everyone know that the prince was very much alive. The young man gathered the queen into his arms and kissed her as he smoothed her shining hair. In her eyes was a radiance that seemed brighter than stardust to him; his eyes were misty because the woman who had just received the most precious crown in all the world, the Crown of Motherhood, was his wife. Lest She Forget Hazel K. Todd ARTHA had always known M through those three wonderful years that some day Linda's father Kent would come and take her away. She would see him, in imagination, coming through the apple orchard up the currant bush path that led to the home where she and Chris lived. She would see Kent's lean frame and his dark hair and the stride of his long legs. He would come and take away his child even as he had brought her that spring morning after her mother had been buried in the hillside cemetery. And then she and Chris would be left lonely and childless again, just as they had been before the loan of the tiny bit of sunshine that had filled the empty places with laughter and the long days and evenings with useful things to do. Martha tried not to think of that time, but it had a cruel way of slipping onto her unexpectedly in the night when the crickets kept her awake, or when Linda sat at her knee and she brushed the shining ripples of her yellow hair. Sometimes it cut her like a keen-edged knife when she saw Chris carrying Linda on his shoulders and chanting to her one of his funny rhymes. Just as now, she saw them coming through the orchard, Chris holding to Linda's bare legs that were round his neck. 'The little girl had a sprig of apple blossom stuck jauntily into her hair and she laughed merrily while Chris, in his deep, good natured voice sang out the words: Bow wow wow, The beggars are coming to town Some in rags, some in shags, And some in silken gowns Chris saw Martha then where she sat with her pan of strawberries on the garden bench. With an upward swing of his big arm, he slid his burden gently to the ground, and the little girl came running to Martha. She scrambled onto the bench and grasped the woman by the neck. "Guess what, Aunt Martha!" she babbled with excitement. "What?" Martha asked with interest. "Chris's goin' to build me a playhouse!" "A playhouse?" Martha exclaimed, kissing the child's hands round her neck. "A house with a chimney and a table and a cupboard, and." "Wonderful!" Martha tried to squeeze the ache from her heart. "May I go tell Peter?" the child asked, still bubbling. "Why, I guess so, if you won't be late for supper,' Martha said, and she watched the little girl run away on nimble bare legs across the orchard path. "Like a fairy elf," she whispered, and Chris came and sat down by her. He lifted the pan of berries from her lap and set them on the edge of the bench. "Could it be we're going to have strawberry pie for supper?" he asked, resting his hand affectionately on hers. Page 291 292 ARTHIA half smiled at him and then suddenly she clutched his arm, "Oh, how can we ever give her up, Chris?" she held onto him desperately. Chris patted her hand reassuringly. He was always so calm about it. But she saw him gaze out across the apple trees to the green roof of the house beyond where Linda's parents had lived. "Three years is a long time, Martha. I have been thinking that maybe Kent will never come back." But Martha knew that Chris knew better. And after he had gone she still kept looking at the green roof that had become in the three years, an emblem to remind her that Linda was not really hers. She went back again to the days when Kent and Ann had lived there together. They had been so much in love. And she had shared with Ann the coming of her baby, a joy that would never be her own. But Ann had never been well after the birth of little Linda. More and more she had relied on Martha to help her with the baby and her other home responsibilities. And then had come the time when she could no longer take care of them at all. So she had died, and they had buried her in the hillside cemetery. Kent's grief had been an awful thing. In the early morning he had come to her carrying Linda, scarcely more than a year old. He had laid the tiny, golden-haired girl in her arms while his voice choked with tears. ""T'ake care of her, Martha, for me. I know you and Chris will do it better than anyone else in the world. When I can stand it alone here without Ann I will come RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 back. Just for a little while, Martha."" And then he had gone hurriedly down the path by the currant bushes, leaving Linda whimpering for her mother. Since then time had fled on wings of lightning for Martha, busy with her new-found joy. The days had lengthened into weeks and months. Three times the apple trees had bloomed. 'There had been_ brief messages from Kent, from different corners of the earth, and gifts for Linda, who babbled about a daddy that she couldn't remember, while Linda's life wound itself tighter and tighter around the hearts of two lonely people. ARTHA was brought back from her reverie by the voices of Linda and Peter. 'They were coming through the orchard from Peters home, where he lived alone with his aged grandmother. Linda, skipping and Peter with his ragged overalls, his hundreds of freckles, and his stick horse that bucked and galloped for Linda's attention. "Aunt Martha, where is Chris?" Linda soon wanted to know. "Has he got my playhouse builded yet? Peter wants to see my playhouse." "Already?" Martha — laughed. "Why, darling, it takes days and days to build a playhouse. But I am sure Peter can see it when it's built." Peter grinned, showing a vacant space in his upper tooth row. Chris came then and took turns with the two children, bucking and galloping like a wild horse around the giant tree until he was so worn out he had to sit down on the ground to rest. LEST SHE FORGET "Will you build my playhouse tomorrow?" Linda wanted to know emphatically, as she climbed onto his knee. "Tf you will first let me tickle your toes and then your nose," Chris said to her with a funny wink. And she pulled his nose in merriment. But to Martha there was something ominous about the playhouse, as though it were a foreboding of disaster. Perhaps it was because she thought of it as something permanent, something to last through the years, the ones that were so uncertain. Even when she measured the tiny windows and planned the pink ruffled curtains, she had to shake off a sense of calamity. 'Too often she caught herself staring at the green roof beyond the apple trees. At night when she had tucked Linda into bed she found it almost impossible to tear herself away from the child's bed. Once when she sat thus, staring at the sleeping child, she turned and caught Chris watching her from the doorway. She was almost embarrassed, and in her bewilderment she went to hin and slipped her hand into his. He squeezed it without saying anything. Suddenly she turned to him impulsively and said, "Oh, Chris, what is wrong about the playhouse? I feel as though it were taking Linda away from me!" Then Chris let go her hand and held onto her arms with his two strong hands. He looked down into her face in tender solicitude. '"Martha, don't let this come over you. It is the one thing I have been afraid of since that morning when 293 Kent left us his little girl. Perhaps she will always be ours, but, if she isn't, we must remember—we must not forget the things that are left!' Martha understood. It seemed she had always to be reminded. She looked at Chris gratefully. Big, understanding Chris! He had always come to her in her desperate moments. 'Forgive me, Chris," she said. "It is a wonderful playhouse. Tomorrow I will finish the curtains." ND so the next evening Martha sat on the garden bench and stitched the pink curtains while Linda played with Peter in the sand pile. A little while ago she had seen him tickling her legs with a long stick and Linda had chased him around the apple tree with a bucket of sand, but now they were busy sticking sprigs of apple blossom into the tiny rows of sand they had made. Martha was finishing a red rosette on the tie-back. She laid it in her lap and looked up from the intricate work a moment to rest her eyes. And then she saw Kent as she always knew she would, coming up the path through the apple orchard, his long stride rapidly measuring off the distance between them. She watched him coming = as though in a dream. Suddenly it was a crazy world that reeled and switled, with somewhere a familiar face from out of the past that went round and round and_ presently came to a standstill immediatcly before her, so close that she could see the gray of his hair. It was appalling! Only three years ago his hair had been completely a dark brown, and now the temples were entirely 294 white, with streaks of gray throughout his head. Her lips formed the words, but it was a long time before she could make the sound come. "You—you have come for her!" "Don't you think it is about time?" Kent asked, watching her intently. "But—but you have been gone so long." "Don't you remember, Martha, I said I would come back?" Then she felt Chris beside her, felt the strength come into her numbed body, and she could think. Chris was putting out his hand to the man standing there by the apple tree. "Kent, old man, it's good to see you." Martha stood up, trying to think of the things she must do. "Linda!" she called, and the little girl came skipping her one-leg skip. "Your daddy is here." ARTHA watched while every fibre of her body wanted to cry out in rebellion, as the little girl came hesitantly forward. Her hair was tousled from her play, but never before had Martha seen the lights shine so in it. Her hand slid into its yellow glory while she watched the man before them. He caught his breath quickly, and impulsively put out his hand. "Linda—Linda—my little girl!' She came forward then, and he leaned and lifted her into his arms. He ran his fingers through her curls. "You are the picture of your mother," he said. "Aunt Martha says I have honeycandy hair," Linda said. "Yes, Linda, like hers—wild honey hair. 'ell me, are you a good RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 girl? Do you do what Aunt Marthat and Chris tell you to?" "Peter doesn't mind his grandmother sometimes," the little girl said. "Sometimes he comes over here when she doesn't know it." "Now, who could Peter be?" The child pointed her finger to the sand pile where a little frecklefaced boy sat forlornly looking on. "That's Peter," she said. "Oh," Kent said, gazing at the lonely little figure. And then he added quickly, "I brought you something. Perhaps you can share it with Peter." He drew a long package from his pocket, hurriedly tore off the wrapping and opened the lid. Linda clapped her hands with pleasure. It was a box of tiny plastic birds. "Here, put them in your flower garden," he said, handing her the box. She took it excitedly and ran calling to Peter with the new-found treasure. "How will you take care of her?" Martha asked, sitting on the bench to relieve the wobbling inher knees. OR a while Kent looked beyond the apple trees. Then he said simply, "I am going to be married." Martha stared at him. "She is a lovely girl, Martha. You see she was lonely, too. She lost her husband in the war. It has been wonderful, the peace that has treturned to me since I met Joyce." He looked away again. "It is different from Ann, Martha. But I know we will find happiness together. And she will make a wonderful mother for Linda." LEST SHE FORGET The words cut like a knife. Martha could feel her face burning. She saw the confused look on Kent's face. He came quickly and sat down beside her. "Forgive me, Martha. I don't want to hurt you. I know you have been the best mother in the world for Linda. But don't you understand—I can't give up my little girl—the only thing | have left of that lovely past. Ann would not want me to give our child away." Martha had been struggling desperately. She spoke with forced calmness. "Yes, Kent, I have always tried to remember that Linda was not ours, and that sometime you would come back for her." There was one last hope. She must know. "Will you—will you be living in your place?" "No, Martha." He paused. "Joyce and I think it would be best to begin our life together some new place. I have sold the farm to a couple with six small children." Martha stared miserably ahead. She saw Chris leaning against the apple tree. She had forgotten him. He was standing there quietly picking the petals from a sprig of apple bloom. 'The loosened leaves floated aimlessly to the ground and lay in a pink carpet at his feet. She wondered vaguely how Chris, who had carried Linda on his shoulders, who had told her his funny rhymes, and taken her piggy back riding, how he could stand there calmly pulling apple blossoms apart. "T don't intend to take Linda away where you can never see her again,' Kent was saying. "I know that I can never repay you at all for what you have done. She could them." 295 come back each year for a visit." His eyes dropped to the blossom petals at Chris' feet. "Perhaps in the spring when the apples are in bloom." Martha looked at him half gratefully, but her throat ached, and she could feel tears stinging her eyes. "When are you going?" "In the morning," he said, while Martha fought desperately to keep the tears back. "I want to spend one last night." His voice trailed off with his gaze through the trees. O it was morning. Linda's hair had been brushed to shining ripples. Her gay little dress, starched and ironed to dainty crispness, rustled as she danced about excitedly around the big box that contained all her things. Then Peter was standing there shyly, pushing his queer package into Linda's hand. "It's my bird eggs, Linda," he said. "You can have And then before she had time to open the pitiful little package, or even tell him goodbye, he was gone. One moment Martha had the child in her arms, with the bright head against her breast and her own lips pressed to the shining curls, and the next moment she was gone. Martha didn't know how long she stood there staring at the empty trail down the currant bushes. But, suddenly, she was aware of the ring of Chris' hammer. She turned and stared at him. How could he be driving nails into Linda's playhouse! But he was! He was nailing the wooden chimney into its place, a square chimney marked off like 296 bricks, pointing mockingly into the sky. He must have read the horror in her face, for he laid the hammer calmly on the roof and stepped down from his wooden box. He came to her and took her two hands between his own. "Why are you building the playhouse, Chris? What for?" Chris pressed her hands until they hurt, hurt until she could have cried out. She could feel his eyes burning into her. "Because, Martha, darling, we can't give up. We must go on." "But, Chris, what is the use without Linda!" She was almost hysterical. "Martha, over across the orchard there will be children. You remember, Kent said—six small children. Their mother will need help. 'They can play in the playhouse. And— have you forgotten all the springs when the apples are in bloom, Linda will come. Her playhouse will be waiting for her. Don't you see? It must be finished, with the chimney and the table and the pink curRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954? Tains Martha felt the tension in Chris' body, felt him trying to help her. She reached out her hand unconsciously and it rested on a_ head. She looked slowly down into a pair of eyes red with crying. It was Peter, his tousled red hair filled with dry leaves and sticks from the bushes where he had wept in loneliness for his only playmate. Poor little Peter, living with a grandmother who was too blind to know that his overalls needed patching. 'Peter,' Martha said, "I must go to see your grandmother. Perhaps I can help her. And — and you must come over every day and help me." She looked up at Chris, and he gave her a wink. "Better still," he said, beckoning to Peter, "I need a man to help me build this house. Peter, would you like to hold this wobbly chimney still?" Martha looked out across the apple trees to the green roof. It will still be there, she thought, to remind me of all the things that are left. Si a ith Mary Ellen B. Workman Time to grieve? Oh, heart, put grief away! Seek out the beauties of today— The unsung song, the flag unfurled, The babe new-born unto the world, The child's smile, eyes that shine Lighted by his love sublime. Life's joys are here, and here shall stay To make you glad upon the way. Your love is pure, Christ's gifts complete; In God's own time you, too, shall sleep— And live again, no more to weep! Come, dear heart, time is not long! Put off your grief, make life your song. Grace T. Kirton LILAC GARDEN AND PIONEER HOME IN EPHRAIM, UTAH Deserted Ga rden Matia McClelland Burk I cannot bear to visit any more The desert homestead where I was a child, And see that dry and thorny weed-grown ruin, My Mother's lovely garden, now grown wild. Her neat, trimmed roses are an unkempt hedge; Gone is her dahlia rainbow in the fall; No trumpet vine calls hummingbirds in spring, No scarlet tulips blossom by the wall. Just one gnarled lilac, blooming by the gate; One tangled bed of orange poppies gleams; No, rather would I seek more perfect flowers In that dear garden of my childhood dreams. Page 297 Miracles and Mother Eileen Gibbons 66 OTHER, it's for you!" M Three daughters, who used to dash for the telephone every time it rang and answer with an anticipant "Hi!" now calmly raise it from the hook, mutter a calm "Hello," and sigh, "Mother, it's for you." Listen closely, and you can hear them add to themselves, "It's always for you!" You see, I'm one of the three daughters, and my mother is the president of a ward Relief Society. She's relatively new in the job of being ward mother, but during the months she has been, we girls, our four brothers, and our father have witnessed a miracle. Miracles aren't exactly unusual in big families. Ours has managed to remain happy through periods of economic depression, broken teenage hearts, the cruel adolescent teasings of too many _ freckled-faced brothers, and the mischief of a seven-year-old named Ted. But Mother is the real muracle. For as long as we can remember, She has been doing extra, unusual things, to save time, effort, and money. Five a. M. Rising to pick raspberries on shares, midnight wallpapering parties, and the care of ten pens of rabbits are among her "saving" ideas. Add to these washing, ironing, cleaning, and cooking for nine, and you have someone much too busy to sit and visit, read a good book, or call on a neighbor for a friendly chat. Yet, these are the things Page 298 every busy housewife hopes some day to find time to do. That's why when Mother told us the bishop wanted her to be president of the Relief Society we all gasped "When?" Mother already moved from one job to another like lightning and was the first awake and the last to bed. We'd chastized her plenty of times about moving too fast, and now the Church wanted to give her one of its biggest jobs. For several days we talked about it. "She's just the person, but..." —"Wouldn't she be wonderful! But...?" and then there was just the plain "But, Mother!" Of course Mother said yes. She had already said yes when we were going around the house wondering "When?" to ourselves and saying "But " to her. At the time, Mother was in the Primary presidency and_ theology teacher in the Relief Society. She was baking twelve loaves of bread every weck, keeping a surplus of canned food in the basement, and frozen food in the locker. Mother also spent an hour every day helping the child up the street improve his reading so he could be promoted. She was giving several minutes a day to Larry because he needed tangible encouragement beside him while he practiced the piano. Torn denim knees had a way of appearing, and old rags had to be made into rugs. It was too expensive for the girls to buy all their clothes, MIRACLES AND MOTHER and as long as shirts and trousers could be made from Dad's old suits and our too-small coitons, the little boys would wear them homemade. A new latch on the door, new paint in the bedroom, the buckle torn from a shoe—a myriad of little jobs were already appearing daily and Mother was squeezing them in. And now the bishop wanted her tO EF girls told her how happy we were, and at the same time gestured melodramatic stories about how we would probably have to quit school and our jobs so Mother could work in the Relief Society. That was several months ago. And Mother is still busy because she still has seven children and the jobs that go along with a big family. Of course, we all have to help a little more, but the miracle is still there. Mother has been able to do the job, keep up her home, and bring a new spirituality, enthusiasm, and happiness into her relations with her family. This is the miracle. Mother has more time and energy than she has ever had before. "Mother, it's for you," calls her to the phone at least a dozen times every day. Someone feels she ought to let Mother know that Sister Wallace is ill. Her first counselor phones to say, "Sure, we can go visiting the shut-ins this afternoon!" Perhaps it's a death in the ward. That usually means food to pre- 299 pare, comfort to give, an asscrtment of needs to fill, There are flowers to arrange and children to tend. Meetings need to be planned, work days scheduled, offices filled— the usual duties of a president—all are there. And Mother does them. She thinks, eats, and sleeps Relief Society. It is her life, her chance to serve. She has found time to do it well, along with her washing, sewing, cooking, and cleaning, and the multitude of household jobs that come unexpectedly. And if you tiptoe into her room almost any evening, you'll find her sitting up in bed reading a good book, the newspaper, or a magazine —to her a luxury. And it isn't late. Only the little boys are in bed. But you see, Mother is tired at night as always. She still has too much to do, and we still tell her she does it too swiftly. But she is a new woman. 'There is contentment instead of exhaustion after a day of hard work. There is joy at every chance to help or expression of gratitude from the helped. There is love between her and a hundred women she never knew before. Most of all, there is a realization and a firm testimony in her heart that wards are living, complex units that need a mother. And the children? We enjoy our miracle Mother. And it hasn't hurt us girls at all to cook a little more often, sew on a few buttons ourselves, or even to think now and then that "he" surely would have called, if Mother hadn't been president of the Relief Society. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, May 1, and May 15, 1894 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMeEN OF ALL NATIONS" THE WOMAN'S CO-OPERATIVE INSTITUTION: Keeps on hand dress goods and trimmings, fancy articles and notions, books and stationery, equipose waists. Dressmaking in all its branches, millinery, latest styles, hats and bonnets cleaned and retrimmed. Feathers curled. Stamping done to order. —Selected WOMAN'S SPHERE: The Father chose her by and through whom all his spiritual children should come to earth, and so ordered that she should be first to know the advent of the spirit to its home and not until she has endowed it with the virtues of her soul does she present it a priceless offering to the Lord. 'Thus woman is recognized by the eternal decree of the Father to be the first to cherish humanity. In view of the fact that there can be no man... Without woman, we may cease to talk about woman's sphere as though it had a limit, other than the world in which she moves. —S. W. Richards THE ORIGIN OF LIFE We're now laying foundations of what we shall be, For life's current extends to eternity's sea; And whatever debases, ennobles, refines, By our acts we imprint in indelible lines. We're the offspring of God. We should never degrady The form which at first in His image was made. —Eliza R. Snow TROUBLE: Never bear more than one trouble at a time. Some people bear three kinds — all they ever had, all they have now, and all they expect to have. —Edward Everett Hale HERITAGE:. While we journey onward and upward, let us clasp hands as sisters in sweet assurance of helping each other to cross the desert of ignorance and the dark river of tradition, where the little boats of error and superstition glide in and out alluring the unwary. We will watch for the beacon light of truth that shines from afar over the Elysian fields of knowledge and understanding. And while we pursue our pioneer march, let us not forget the innumerable company that follow in our wake, and leave for them shining waymarks, hopeful harbingers of success in attaining the goal of our ambitions. —Selected RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN BOX ELDER STAKE: Quarterly conference of the Relief Society of Box Elder Stake convened in the Tabernacle at Brigham City, on the 13th of March. President Olivia Widerborg presiding. Sister Bowring: I heard Brother Kimball once say we should be as clay in the potter's hand, if we depend on the Lord we shall be so. We can do a great deal of good to each other. Emelia D. Madsen: It is a sacred calling to be a president or an officer in the Relief Society. The teachers in visiting should try to find the needy. They need to possess the spirit of the Lord, the spirit of discernment, and great big hearts that they may find even those who shrink from receiving help in their need.... Counselor Mary Wright: Let us not find fault with each other, it is weakening to ourselyes, let us do all the good we can —Emelia D. Madsen, Cor. Sec. Page 300 ;}MMA RAY RIGGS McKAY, wife of President David O. McKay of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, has been named Utah's "Mother of the Year" for 1954. She will go to New York City this month to join other state winners in the events taking place when the "American Mother of the Year" will be chosen. Mrs. McKay, mother, homemaker, musician, has long been active in community and Church activities and has accompamed President McKay upon his world travels. LIVE WOOLLEY BURT (Mrs. Clinton R. Burt), noted and dynamic Salt Lake author, has three new volumes on the market. Young Jed Smith—Westermg Boy is an interesting, action-filled story of this famous personality of the early West; Camel Express is the tale of a strange and little known episode in Western history; and Peter's Sugar Farm, has West Jordan, Utah, as its locale. RS. BENJAMIN F. (Ardella Bitner) TIBBY, a native Salt Laker, but for the last twenty-one years superintendent of the Compton City Schools, Compton, California, delivered one of the prinWoman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon cipal addresses at the convention of the American Association of School Administrators, held in Atlantic City, New Jersey, in February. Past normal retiring age, Mrs. Tibby is considered too valuable to the school system to be permitted to leave. She ranks as one of the foremost women educators in America. GRANDMA MOSES, _ ninetythree, has just presented one of her latest primitive paintings, ""The Battle of Bennington,' to the Daughters of the American Revolution. IRTHDAY congratulations are extended to Mrs. Lizzie Colborn, Salt Lake City, one hundred one; Mrs. Susanna Matilda Cowels Huish, Spring Lake, Utah, ninetynine; Mrs. Catherine Matilda Beck, San Leandro, California, ninetyeight; Mrs. Euphemia Jane Carter Freeman, Salt Lake City, ninetyseven; Mrs. Margaret Blair Crabtree, Idaho Falls, Idaho, ninetythree; Mrs. Martha Musser Sheets Davis, Salt Lake City, ninety-three; Mrs. Sarah Elizabeth Goodwin Binnal, Granger, Utah, ninety; Mrs. Rosella Marie P. T. Jacobsen, Mt. Pleasant, Utah, ninety. Page 30] ————_ JIT ORIAL 9 VOL. 41 MAY 1954 Portrait of Mlother N a certain old-fashioned house, there was an embroidered sampler on the living room wall, which proclaimed a message that the children in that home could never forget. At first, when they were small, the message seemed to refer to their grandmother, but later, upon returning to the beloved family home, they knew that the message referred to their own dear mother. We are coming, Mother, coming— From the loom and from the mine— Though it be our last sweet homing On that mother breast of thine. In times of separation from our mothers, whether it be the absence caused by the temporary affairs of earth, or that longer waiting until the time of reunion in the heavenly home, we often try to picture in memory the portrait of our mothers. Sometimes an evanescent happening or even some familiar scene — a flower garden, a thread of music, a lighted window — may bring to us, unexpectedly, a vivid and strangely comforting portrait of mother. The dear face may be remembered well, and the busy, untiring hands, the quick step in the kitchen, the quiet step to a child's crib. One woman may remember that once, upon admitting some misdemeanor of childhood, the mother only looked at her with tears in her eyes, and had to wait to find something to say. Another woman may Page 302 recall how swiftly her mother's fingers flew in sewing white lace upon an infant's dress. 'The portraits are varied and beautiful. Though we may not realize the full influence of these memories— these portraits, we know that in large measure they determine our attitudes, our actions, the very course of our lives. One woman has been influenced throughout her life by seeing repeatedly, in memory, her mother, who had come to visit the daughter at college, standing, after class had been dismissed, with her hand laid tenderly upon a bench in the room, tears in the mother's eyes. Then she _ said, "Such a thing as this learning was never possible for me, but I am so grateful that you can be here." Another woman, sincerely devoted to the work of the Church, recalls, as an indelible etching, the portrait of her mother — how she hurried down the poplar-lined street, taking her little daughter with her; how quickly the mother mounted the wooden steps to the Relief Society Hall, how soon she was taking charge of the meeting — then the music, the prayer, the quietness, and the light upon the mother's face. Strange how much is inscribed upon the pliant mind of a child through no direct word being said. It is by spiritual communion that much of earth's best instruction is given and received. EDITORIAL Many of us may be fortunate enough to recall the portrait of a mother who honored and respected the individualism of each of her children, who realized that each child is different from every other personality, the heritage given by the parents coming from ancestral sources remote and near, but always in a new combination of characteristics, talents, and temperament, with an individual, everlasting spirit. The mother has been the life- 303 giving vessel, but her duty and her influence are best exercised through love, patient direction, and inspirational example. And mothers who are wise, as well as devoted, may, over the years and into old age, share in the shining hopes, ideals, and accomplishments of their children, and these mothers may be comforted by knowing that the portraits of all mothers are forever indestructible. —V. P. C. New Serial "The Salling Shackles, to Begin in June NEW serial, "The Falling Shackles," by Margery S. Stewart, will begin in the June Relief Society Magazine. This intimate and dramatic story recounts the sad and amusing experiences of a family from Europe who make a new life for themselves in Salt Lake City. The author is well known to readers of the Magazine, having contributed many excellent stories and poems. Mrs. Stewart's work has also received recognition by national magazines of wide circulation, and she has received awards in several contests, including the Relief Society Short Story Contest and the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. Si o David Marjorie Foote Tough and tousled three-year-old, Hurtling like a comet jet Along the path, across the street— A mercury with wing-shod feet. Bright ribboned years do now unfold, Shot with silver, red, and gold; High adventures to be met; Forward now your course is set; Life's dawn for you is sweet. We set small store by worldly gain But here's a jewel-studded crown: The sapphire of a blue tit's wing, The liquid gold the blackbirds sing; Pearl-studded trees in rain, Emeralds from the leafy lane; The honeybee's topaz and brown, Gay rose's gorgeous ruby gown, Each sparkling gem of spring. This box is clasped with constant prayer And bounded with our love for you. Its key of truth will only turn If, with clear vision, you discern The Priesthood cloak that God sets there For every worthy son to wear. Oh, take these treasures and renew Your covenants each day; be true. Oh, let his lamp forever burn. 'Say Lt With Flowers 7 Norma W. South HE words so often used by the florist industry bring an intriguing thought to me. What has been said to me by way of flowers? What have I tried to say to others? When I was a little girl, no taller than a window sill, my world seemed to be made up mostly of flowers. Dozens of flowering house plants lined our windows. My view of the outside world was always framed by flowers and, as I grew taller, by lovely foliage and flowers. October, there was often wind and sleet and snow, but inside it was always summer. Mother's geraniums were deep red, bright red, old rose, pink, white, and salmon color. 'The Martha Washington geranium, with its gray-green leaves, had single flowers of old rose, with deep rose throats. 'The fuchsia was the wonder plant, with its delicate stems and _ lavender-red blossoms which hung down like bells on a Christmas tree. 'The Marguerite had fern-like foliage and large white daisy blossoms. 'Then there was the California pink which had a blossom of fine pink fringe and no leaves at all; it had queer needles like those of an evergreen! Every night through the long winter months, mother patiently carried her plants from the windows to the kitchen table where they would be safe from frost. Every morning she gave each plant a drink. One year she took new slips and repotted all the plants, using rich loamy soil from under the wild English willows. I have never learned any more of her secrets of Page 304 growing house plants; that is why I cannot grow them as well as she. Perhaps Mother was never conscious of saying things with her flowers; we were not conscious of receiving the messages. But they told us many things just the same. They told us that here was love and patience, not only for the plants, but for the children who lived with them. They told us that home was beautiful and warm and safe. As the plants cost mother not a cent, they told us that there are many beautiful and wonderful things in the world which have nothing at all to do with money. 'The blossoms cheered us through childhood illness and gave us courage when father was away at the hospital for three whole months. They taught us that God can do some very remarkable things. I can close my eyes and see the flowers and people marching through my girlhood. It is the junior prom. There are new formals, flowers, ecstasy! Now I am returning from a college spring formal. The young man in the tuxedo takes the rose from his lapel and presses it into my hand. 'The little flower tells the sweet message for which he cannot find adequate words. My wedding... There are flowers everywhere. Mother is saying, "Norma, the pink double hollyhocks have bloomed early this year, just for you." She is so happy including her flowers in the plans. "We'll decorate the table with glads, the white and pink coronas." I see again my wedding bouquet. SAY IT WITH FLOWERS The years are rushing on. There are flowers for birthdays, weddings, a funeral... My father's. Now I am lying in a hospital, not ill at all, but rejoicing over the safe arrival of our third child, a dear little boy. The door opens and a sweet little girl of nine enters, carrying a small bouquet picked from my own garden. Her blue eyes fill with tears; she is unable to speak, but the flowers tell what she has come to say. I reach joyfully for the flowers, and the little blond head goes down on my pillow. It is so lonesome at home without Mommie. I am again in a hospital, standing beside a white bed. It is a crisis in our lives; our daughter is very ill with pneumonia. I lay a cool hand on her feverish brow. "Darling,' I begin, trying not to 305 let my voice betray my fear, "remember how our sweetpeas looked last summer on the fence? 'They were so pretty when a cool breeze stirred them." It is my way of saying, "Don't be afraid, dear. God will watch over you and make you well, even as he can change a very small seed into a beautiful flowering plant." She smiles and closes her tired eyes in sleep. It is a very good sign. Today a spring shower has refreshed my flower garden. 'The bleeding heart is blooming beautifully. 'The iris, narcissus, and tulips are waiting to be made into a bouquet for our table. 'Through the spring, summer, and fall, I will find things to say to my family and friends, and I will say them with Howers. Oi Preserving Metal Planters Elizabeth Williamson dhs prevent the corrosion af metal planters, line them with melted paraffin, Things Will Be Different Virginia M. Kammeyer ment, surveying it with disgust. "Will I be glad to get away from you!" she thought. They would be moving soon— she and Bill and the children, away from the ugly little apartment, into the beautiful house with the big lawn and the willow tree. Sally leaned on her broom and dreamed. She wouldn't take one piece of furniture from this living room, not one thing! She'd give it all to the junk man and buy new for the home they were moving to. She gave the sofa a look that should have withered it. One side sagged where the children had jumped on it too hard. And the once-attractive blue frieze upholstery had succumbed to smears of peanut butter, jelly, and molding clay. Those plastic curtains were going out. She would have draw drapes at the big picture window—maybe cream-colored silk with appliqued roses to match the roses in that elegant carpet she had seen in Kranowski's window. She pulled herself back to the present, picked up the broom, and set it down again. She didn't feel like cleaning this place anymore. Why bother to mop and wax the floors, dust the furniture? Soon she would be bidding it all goodby. Sally decided to nourish her soul. She pushed Karl's truck out of the way and sat down with the new Home Lovely magazine. She flipped through the pages of beautiful exteriors and exquisite interiors, read an article on color schemes, and Page 306 GS ment looked around the apartpaused to admire a pictured devil's food cake and dream of whipping it up in her own gleaming kitchen. She became so absorbed in the magazine that she jumped when the kitchen door banged. Fouryear-old Karl and three-year-old Ann came in, demanding lunch. Sally looked at the clock—one-fifteen! She'd really have to fly if she got anything done before Bill came home from work. She hurried the children through lunch and got them down for naps, then washed the dishes and mopped up the soup and crumbs under the table. It was three o'clock before she got to cleaning the living room. Bill would be home at four-thirty. She shoved the children's discarded sweaters into the closet, dumped all their toys together into a box, and threw out some wilted flowers. Now to make the beds and see what she could prepare for supper. It was four-twenty-five. Sally opened the refrigerator and found some wieners and cold boiled potatoes. 'The children would love it if she fried the potatoes, but she wasn't so sure about Bill. He liked his meals balanced. She backed away from the refrigerator, both hands full, and bumped into her husband in the narrow space between refrigerator and table. Waieners and potatoes flipped upside down on the floor. "Oh, Bill! Just see what you've done!" She knew she shouldn't be blaming Bill for the accident, but the afternoon's rush had left her short- THINGS WILL BE DIFFERENT tempered, and, as she picked the food off the floor, the tiny kitchen suddenly irritated her. We need traffic lights to get around in here, she thought, and then grew more cheerful as she thought of leaving it all behind. ILL still stood with the evening paper in his hand, wearing that "Now what have I done?" look. Sally gave him a peck on the cheek and carried the wieners to the sink to wash them off. Fried potatoes brought squeals of delight from the children and a disapproving look from Bill. Sally, on the defensive, said, "Honey, I can't prepare a decent meal on two square feet of counter space." Bill grunted and speared a potato. "Just wait, darling," and she put an arm around him, "when we move into that beautiful big kitchen Pll prepare wonderful meals!" Next morning the bank called to tell Sally that the loan had gone through and they could come in any time to sign the final papers. Sally put down the phone, and, humming, went to find a box to pack her best dishes. She was crumpling newspaper in the bottom of the box, when the air split with screams from outside. Sally jumped to her feet and ran out the door. Karl and a neighbor boy were chasing Ann around the yard, squirting her with their water pistols. "Stop it! Both of you!" she cried and dragged the sobbing child away. "Don't ever do that again!" And she marched Ann into the house. She comforted her with a cookie and resumed her packing. It's the neighbor boys who teach 307 Karl those things, she decided, just wait till we move into a civilized neighborhood. The days moved quickly. Sally packed their belongings, wrote change-of-address letters to the milkman, the mailman, and the telephone company. She handed in to the rental office their notice of intention to vacate, and received in return a mimeographed sheet of instructions for leaving the apartment. Be sure, it said, to empty the garbage, mow the lawn, turn in the key, and so on, and so on. She handed the sheet to Bill when he came home, with the suggestion that he get busy on "operation lawn mower." Bill flopped in a chair, a pained expression on his face. "Let a man rest for a minute. I'll get at it after supper." He didn't get at it after supper, nor the next night, nor the next. Tuesday evening Sally reminded him that they were moving Friday. Wednesday at supper she reminded him again, a little more firmly, and on Thursday afternoon when he came home, the lawn mower was barring the door, Sally standing grimly behind it. "O. K," Bill said, shame in his expression, "I'll mow it. But, you know, I'd enjoy it a lot more if it was our own lawn." His voice began to show enthusiasm as he pushed the mower through the grass. "Just wait till I get started on our own yard. I'll really manicure that Jawn—and trim the willow tree—and plant more flowers!" HEY spent Friday and Saturday moving. Bill rented a_ truck, 308 and together they tugged and heaved the furniture onto the back of it. Sally had lost her battle to get rid of the living-room pieces. She was, in Buill's opinion, lucky to get a house. So the sagging sofa went along to the new home. When the last load was dropped in the middle of the living room, Sally stopped to survey the place. This was home, with the willow tree, the wide lawn, and the wisteria over the front step. She was completely happy. Sunday morning found them tired, stiff, and barely able to pull themselves to church. 'They came home and nibbled on cold cuts from the refrigerator, and Bill reminded Sally, "Be sure to call the electric company tomorrow, so they can send a man out to connect up the stove." Monday morning Sally waved her husband off to work, shooed the children out to play, and then sat down on a box of books, wondering where, in the littered living room, to begin putting things away. The enormity of the task depressed her, and she was tired. The Home Lovely magazine lay on top of a barrel of dishes, and Sally picked it up. She was intently comparing color schemes in the magazine when she was shocked to attention by a series of screams that could come from no one but Ann. Sally sprang to the door and saw Karl dragging Ann about the yard. Ropes bound her hands and feet. "Karl! Stop it! What are you doing?" "We're Indians. Ier?" I'm _lasseling "Well, don't let me catch you~ RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 doing it again!" She rescued her daughter, untied the cords, and started back toward the house. She noticed a lot of scraggly weeds along the brick walk, and stooped to pull one or two. An hour later she was still at it. She paused long enough to make the children sandwiches for lunch, and found, upon entering the kitchen, that Ann had tried to help herself to milk from the refrigerator and had dropped the whole quart. Sally cleaned up the mess and cut her finger deeply on a piece of glass. When the children were asleep, she went back to the weeding. As she bent and pulled, she was gradually aware of a noise—one that had been going on for some time. ALLY stood up suddenly, realizing it was the sound of running water. She followed it to its source, and stood aghast. One of the children had turned on the hose and left it running full blast near the half-open basement window. Water was pouring into the dark depths below. She turned off the water and dashed for the basement door to survey the damage. It was worse than she had imagined. 'The water pouring in from outside lay two inches deep near the window, and a leaking pipe overhead was adding to the flood. Sally ran to get a mop and a broom to stem the tide before it spread to their trunks of precious things. She pulled on her overshoes and waded in, sweeping the water before her to the door. Mop, sweep, mop, sweep, for two hours she worked, until she had swept all she could out the door, THINGS WILL BE DIFFERENT had wrung more out into a bucket, and the remainder lay in damp puddles on the floor. At four-thirty Bill found her lopped in exhaustion on the couch. "Hey, lazy bones," and he shook her. "What's for supper?" "Supper!" Sally reared up and looked at him with horrified eyes. "I forgot to call the electrician to hook up the stove!" "Yeah? Well, what have we got?" and Bill stalked to the refrigerator. "Wieners and cold _potatoes!" It was too much. The whole day had been too much. She began to cry, and found she couldn't stop. She was tired, she hurt, and nothing seemed to be going right. Through her tears she saw Bill standing over her with that "Now what have I done?" expression. Where have I seen that look before? She wondered, and, realizing where, began to giggle, her sobs of exhaustion gradually turning to an agony of laughter. Bill grabbed her shoulders and shook her hard. "What's the matter? Hey, stop it, for goodness sake!" 309 "Oh, Bill!" And she went off into peals of laughter again. "I'm laughing at myself. For being so stupid! I thought just moving would change everything. I expected this to be heaven—and it's not! The lawn's a mess, the plumbing leaks—even the wisteria's got blight. And I'—she began to laugh and sob at the same time, "I'm the same inefficient, forgetful person I've always been. Even the children are as naughty as ever. Oh, honey," she put an arm around her puzzled husband, "starting right now, I'm going to try to make this a heaven for you and the children. I'll budget my time, and write down notes, and keep track of things." Bill was thoughtfully rubbing her hand between his, trying to think of what to say. "Maybe," he said, "all of us together can gain heaven, a step at a time. I think I'll start right now by mowing the lawn." Sally, putting away books, watched him from the window, and out of a new understanding and maturity (or maybe she had read it somewhere) said, "We make a heaven for ourselves right where we are— or nowhere." —>- Ilo rm in g Gi Or les Evelyn Fjeldsted Morning glory bells are ringing; The wind has found their muted chimes, Wings of butterflies are tipping In their silent, aerial climbs. High above a plane is flying, With sun-splashed wings, far out of harm, The mighty engine, lifting, singing, Fills the sky with morning charm, Butterfly and plane creation, Each to its own destination! Meuidber Shat White Shirt Yourself Ruth K. Kent GEND a white shirt to the laundry a few times, and you will spend enough to buy a new shirt. It is easy to do up a white shirt when you know how. This is the way I have found to be best for me. The ironing itself is not so much the problem as the preparation for ironing. First the washing—scrub the collar and cuffs with soap and a stiff brush. Wash as usual and rinse out all the soap. It is advisable to rinse a white shirt even though a no-rinse detergent has been used, in order to nd it of any grimy water. Hang the shirt on the line by the back shirttail, being sure to spread it wide. Pull the collar, cuffs, and button hole pleat down the front into shape. Hang in the sun to dry, if possible, or someplace in the air, where the shirt will dry quickly. If it must be dried inside, do not crowd it. Do not starch the shirt until it is dry. To starch, use one tablespoon of a good starch to one cup of warm water. (Use more starch if the shirt is to be stiffer, but that must be determined by experimenting). Add one teaspoon of salt to the starch and stir well. Now dip the collar into the starch, rub it in well, and wring out. Do the same with the cuffs, being careful not to get the starch on the sleeves. And for an especially good job, gather just the pleat in front into your hand and dip it into the starch and wring out. Now sprinkle the whole shirt and roll tightly. Before ironing, make these important preparations: See that the iron is clean. Wash off the bottom, and, if necessary, scour of lightly any black spots. Place a clean dish towel or part of an old sheet over the ironing board cover. Spread newspapers on the floor beneath the ironing board. And, if available, put a piece of beeswax or ironing wax beneath the ironing board cover at the head of the board. Set the iron just below ''cotton," or approximately 350 degrees. If the iron is too hot, it will leave scorch marks where repeated ironing is necessary. First iron the under side of the collar, pushing in from the corners to the center. Iron the band until it seems dry. Turn over and do the outside of the collar, being careful to push any fullness to the back of the collar. Now move the collar to the far edge of the board and let it hang over. Iron the collar band on the edge of the board until it seems dry. If the iron pulls hard, rub it across the wax placed at the head of the board and it will glide smoothly. Iron the cuffs on the wrong side from the bottom edge toward the sleeve. Push the iron up into the sleeve from the inside of the cuff. Now, do the right side of the cuff. Flatten the sleeve along the underarm seam and iron the sleeve flat on the board, doing the side with the placket first. Iron out all the wrinkles carefully where the sleeve joins the cuff and do the placket neatly. Turn the sleeve over and do the other side. If the sleeve seems to pucker at the underarm seam, pull and stretch the seam while ironing. Fold the shirt along the line where the back is seamed to the yoke. Lay the yoke flat on the board and iron carefully. Iron the left front first, starting at the underarm seam and working towards the buttons. 'Then do the back, then the right front. Iron the pleat on the night front on the underside first, then iron dry and smooth on the right side. This is one of the most important things to watch when ironing a white shirt. The shirttail need not be done so carefully. Go over the collar and cuffs once again. Hang the shirt on a hanger to dry. And it is best to store shirts on hangers if there is hanging space available. Page 310 a LAUNDER THAT WHITE SHIRT YOURSELF | 311 If the shirt must be folded, do it the way the army does. Button the shirt and place it on a large flat surface (bed or table) back down. Gently fold the collar down against the breast of the shirt. Fold one sleeve straight across the front, the other sleeve over the first one. Lift the shirt tail and fold it a third of the way up. Now lift this fold and place it even with the top of the shirt. The shirt is now just the right size to lay away in a dresser drawer or a suitcase. If it must be made smaller, fold it in three, once from left to right, then the other side over this. It will come out unwrinkled in the places that show the most. It takes a little practice to learn how to launder a white shirt, but it pays off in savings, and in a man's pride when someone asks him, "Say, who does your shirts so well?" -_<- Anniversary a emacs Mabel Law Atkinson 6 Ni morning, while rummaging through my spacious treasure-chest of memory to find the gift of love I needed in my longing for children's laughter, I came across a box carefully wrapped and labeled, "Anniversary Gifts, 1934." Tears flowed freely as I opened each parcel wrapped in plain brown wrapping paper and saw the cherished gifts and the childish writing on the homemade, flowerdecorated cards. The first revealed a small rag dolly fashioned out of old white knitted underwear by the untrained hands of a little daughter of eight, the face worked in black uneven stitches, the body stuffed with bits of underwear cut fine by fingers that yearned to do artistic work like her twelve-year-old sister. Her gift, when opened, proved to be a hanky made from a salt sack, hemmed and embroidered by small hands which at that tender age were prophetic of her later skill. A bitter-sweet fragrance escaped as I began unwrapping the next gift, a "bookay of buetiful dandelines" from my four-year-old son whose note had been written by his older brother. Again I saw the childish beauty of this curly-haired "'little brother" gathering the flowers for me. Again I heard the lilting music of his laughter. I opened the last parcel with the hands of love tightening about my heart, and pearls of tenderness illumining my eyes, for the lad whose gift this was, is with us no more. Tied to the handle of a little basket made of burrs and filled with moss and wild violets, was a note in a loved, remembered boyish scrawl: "I have no muney, but I Juv you." Again I saw this lad as a chubby babe of two sitting in the dooryard of a rented home, sans lawns and flowers, pulling bunch after bunch of the first tiny redroots of spring and laughing for very joy as he saw the pink rootlets. Seeing me watching, he held up a handful, calling, "See! Pitty, mama, pitty!" He loved beauty even then and found it in the pink of the roots of weeds. I recalled how, as he grew older, he was always bringing me starts of flowers for the window, and later on for a garden by our very own home. With gratitude in my heart that God had let me keep him until he was mature, I offered up a prayer that he is finding beauty in the heavenly gardens as he walks through them at sunrise as he loved to do here. What wealth was mine that morning as each shyly gave his gift! Since then I have received beautiful and costly gifts, but none have given me greater joy than those simple offerings of love on that anniversary in "our poverty year" when there were no nickels to spare. The Right Decision! Frances C. Yost M ARGARET Shelby popped the rolls in the oven, then took another peek at the dining-room table. It was beautiful with its centerpiece of autumn asters. Margaret's best silver sparkled on the alabaster linen. She was using her teakwood dinner set this evening. "Yes," Margaret said aloud, "everything is just beautiful. Why, anyone would think I was entertaining the Governor, instead of my family." Someone said the way to a man's heart is through his stomach, Margaret thought. With things sort of special, perhaps John will break down and tell me what's been bothering him lately. Margaret went to their bedroom and chose a brown rayon dress splashed with a daisy design because John liked it. Making a quick change, she combed her hair and added just a touch of makeup. Then, viewing herself in the mirror, she said aloud: "I may not be an illustrator's dream of young Mrs. America, but I have a good husband, and I hope to keep him." Margaret's chin set with determination. As she waited at the door to welcome John, Margaret thought, life is good, I'm blessed with a perfect husband, if there ever was one, a handful of healthy children, a good home we can call our own, just everything. Except that something is bothering John, and I mean to find out exactly what it is, and tonight. Page 312 "Smells good," John — sniffed. "We're famished, aren't we, kids?" John and Margaret let the children supply the table conversation, for their day's experiences were bubbling over. After the meal was finished, Margaret saw her dinner set, linen, and silverware put in their places, then she joined John in the living room. "You're a_heart-filling armful," John said, laying aside his paper and pulling Margaret. Down on_ the couch beside him. "Now we have a minute to ourselves, Marge, I have something mighty important to discuss with you." Margaret studied his face. It was almost too serious. He was going to tell her without asking. "Yes?" she questioned. "Hang it, Marge, I was going to tell you how important it is for a fellow to have a higher education in the business world today. I had so many reasons, but I might as well get to the point nght off. I want to get a leave of absence from the office and work for my degree." "Oh, John!" Margaret gasped. It was as if she had been pricked with a red-hot goad. "I thought you were satisfied, you've worked up." "It's a competitive world. A fellow needs a good education to make the grade. I never had a chance before, but now we're kind of ahead, I thought." John valued her common sense; even more, he valued her happiness. He counseled with her for both reasons. "College," Margaret repeated the THE RIGHT DECISION! Word which cut her as a razor blade —thin and deadly sharp. Her sensible mind weighed the problem as she saw the facts. Just when they were beginning to be able to have a few of the nice things of life, like the Tiltons next door, then, suddenly, to be asked to run a home without a steady income, was overwhelming! Margaret saw again in her mind's eye their first years of marriage, the skimping and saving, the making over and making do. John had been in college then. Margaret felt a shudder run over her, remembering. Things wouldn't be the same with John a college man. He would have to have quiet to study, or he might be away at the library or at school functions. 'The very thought of John in college was as if Margaret had been told John would suddenly be swept from the earth. She dared not speak lest she scream out in protest. | They sat in silence while the precious seconds ebbed, then John reached over and took Margaret's chin in his strong, brown palm. A sudden film came over Margaret's eyes as he peered into her face. "I know it's a shock, Margaret darling." His dark eyes looked at her, but seemed to see into some reality beyond. "I can't tackle it without your help. You think it over for a day or two. Registration is a week off. I know you'll make the right decision." OK OOK MARGARET heard John playing with the children in the back yard. Her own heart lay buried deep and aching. She picked up the evening edition of the paper and scanned it, but the words 313 blurred beyond readability, leaving the entire space for two single words which seemed to stand embossed in black type—John... College. Margaret laid aside the paper, walked to her little pearwood desk and opened it. She took clean writing paper and pen. 'There was a pigeonhole full of letters to be answered; this evening would be a good time. But her pen trails hesitated until she allowed to be written the words which kept racing through her mind: John wants to return to college. Margaret tore the paper into pieces, then crumpled them for good measure, and dropped them into the wastebasket at her feet. She closed the desk and walked out into the garden. Autumn reigned with all its colors. A firey sugar maple, a burning oak, and a golden poplar mingled their brilliant leaves. White-limbed birches stood like nymphs in the shower of their gold hair. 'The mountains stood clothed in red and golds, with touches of bright evergreen, but Margaret was unconscious of the beauty of her surroundings. She walked as if in a daze to the aster bed. Here she had picked large gold and purple balls to adorn her table only a few hours before. She plucked the head from one, leaving the long stem unclad among _ its friends. 'Then her fingers began pulling the petals from autumn's queen of flowers. 'The petals fell one by one on the grass at her feet with alternate words—he will, he won't; he will, he won't. Margaret's life had been as fresh and full as the asters in the garden; now her life had suddenly become 314 as crushed and bruised as the flower in her fingers. She thrust the symbol upon the ground. Then, pushing the tears back, she entered the rear door of her home. Margaret could hear the children's voices above the rat-rat of the ping-pong balls in the basement. She decided to take a brisk shower. 'Then, perhaps, her family wouldn't notice her swollen eyes. But the shower was not refreshing as she had hoped, for the needles of hot water kept prickling into her flesh as if tattooing the word school. She donned a robe and went to their room to put on something fresh. As she entered their room, she usually took renewed pride in the chintz curtains and the spool bed in a white petticoat, but tonight she noticed none of this. John had crawled, as if exhausted, into bed. Poor dear, Margaret thought, if he goes to college, he'll never know what it is to sleep early evenings. Somehow Margaret managed to plow through the evening tasks of undressing the little children, listening to their prayers, and tucking them in for their dreams, but the feeling of brooding menace never left her. It was past her usual bedtime when she brushed her teeth, jerked the window open, and crept between the sheets. Hours later she awakened shaking. She rolled her head from side to side, but her body remained rigid, conscious of the sharp pain deep inside. Sleep must have taken possession of Margaret again, for when she opened her eyes it was a new day. But, for Margaret, it lacked the usual anticipation which a new day brings. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 IGHT followed day and day night, and it was Wednesday afternoon. Margaret stood gazing into their cold unused fireplace as she listened to the petulant drip of an autumn rain on the roof. Her hands were clammy as she churned inside. The hurt bewilderment still clouded her eyes. 'The very thought of years ahead with John at school stretched like a vast gray ocean—monotonous, endless emptiness. John had said she would make the right decision. Well, she would, all right. She would point out how the hundreds of war brides were struggling to help support a tiny brood of kiddies while their husbands sat in classrooms. She had seen too many young wives with their angular faces, always looking worn and sharply tired behind their brave front. Margaret's plan of action was clear now. John had said to think it over for a day or two. She had. Now, the moment John came home, she would point out calmly and clearly without any tears or violence, the wisdom of his going on with his job, devoting his time to the children and herself. Margaret rehearsed her talk, reassuring herself before she tried to convince John. Just then the doorbell rang. Margaret crossed the room to answer it. "Why Mrs. Tilton!" Margaret said, her voice a little thick, "won't you come in?" Margaret had been crying. Her last glimpse in the mirror had assured her that she looked as if she had fallen flat on her face. Yet she desperately hoped her neighbor wouldn't notiee. "T just dropped over to say goodbye. We're leaving the end of the THE RIGHT DECISION! Week," Mrs. Tilton stated. "Leaving!" Margaret echoed her astonishment. "Yes, work is taking Marvin to Armorville, so we're taking just what few things we need." Mrs. 'Tilton spoke with no outward appearance of regret. "But your lovely home?' Margaret questioned. "How can you bear to leave it?" "Well, I must confess I've never become married to any one house. Oh, I will admit it isn't all sunshine and roses to pick up and leave, but whatever comes, Marvin and I will meet it side by side." Mrs. Tilton had a wide, intelligent brow, and a generous, smiling mouth, things which Margaret had never noticed before. "You seem so very broad-minded, Mrs. Tilton. Why? Have you always felt like this I mean ieviing by your hushed: in whatever he wanted to do?" Margaret finished her sentence haltingly. "T owe my viewpoint, in fact, my happiness in life, to a certain pioneer woman," Mrs. 'Tilton stated with doting inflection. "You do? May I ask her name?" Margaret inquired, making an overture of hospitality. "Why, yes, she was Phoebe Woodruff. A century ago she was a young wife like you, Margaret." "Please tell me about her." Margaret was gently being drawn from a fog. For the first time in three days she forgot herself. Her mind left the valley of dilemma and traveled the TUBS ged path of the pioneers. RS. Tilton's soft voice seemed to lead the way. "As I remem- 315 ber the story, the Woodruff couple was making their way to Kirtland to join the saints. Traveling wasn't streamlined, as it is today, and food was scarce. Hardships for Phoebe were more than she could bear. She passed away." "Oh! What a shame!" Margaret interluded. Forgetting herself, a bitter pain for Phoebe Woodruff rose strong and sharp in Margaret's throat. "Her spirit left her body, for she saw her body lying on the bed and her husband and friends around her weeping. 'Then two personages came for her. One of the messengers informed her that she could have her choice, she could go to rest in the spirit world, or she could have the privilege of returning to her tabernacle, and continuing her labors on earth, on one condition " Mrs. Tilton paused. "What condition?" Margaret queried, her heart taking up its slow, wary beat again. "Why, that she stand by her husband and pass through all his cares and trials and tribulations and _afflictions of life unto the end. Phoebe Woodruff looked at her husband and child and said, 'Yes, IT will do it." "She did?" Margaret laid the two words out like little flatirons of exactly the same weight. "She chose the hard pioneer life just to help her husband? Death would have been sweet." "But she chose to be on the side of her husband, my dear," Mrs. Tilton went on in a low even voice. "This story, and a true one it ls, has remained a guiding star in my life. It shows the place a wife has in life as a helpmate, the pulling of 316 a load together." Her thin hands rested in her lap. 'Together,' Margaret framed the word softly, almost reverently. "Yes, my child. God knew crossing life's path would be too difficult for man alone. He gave him a companion." It was then the two women seemed to lay words aside and choose a silence. At length Mrs. 'Tilton arose. "Well, I must be going." Then, turning, she laid her hand on Margaret's shoulder. "I hope you get to feeling better, my dear." Margaret walked to the door with Mrs. 'Tilton. Outside the clouds had broken. 'The sky was glorious and bright. It was as if bleak OcK *K RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 tober had moved back from the world, and summer had come to reign supreme again. It was tears of joy, mingled with relief, which rolled down Margaret's cheeks when the door was closed after her visitor. All her pent-up feelings of the past three days left her. Margaret's heart was washed clean, and filled with satisfaction and sweet contentment. She walked to the phone and dialed a number, then waited. "That you, John?" No, nothing's wrong with the children. I'm all right, too, John. I feel wonderful!... I know you're busy, and I won't keep you.... I just wanted to tell you, John, I've made the right decision!" kK Mother Love Hannah C. Ashby How silently and swiftly Time has sped the years; I wear a white carnation When Mother's Day appears. Yet like a traveler of the deep Who sights the northern star, My mother's love still lights my path Though shining from afar. And in the great celestial plan Where family ties still hold, I know that she is waiting there— Her love has not grown cold. We know the stars that shine by night Are never seen by day. We walk by faith and not by sight; She taught me how to pray.. O Shall Wr Reap ° Maryhale Woolsey As surely as we tend the splendid fields Where grow our winter foods and next year's seed, We cultivate the days — for they must yield Life's memories on which old age will feed, Sina Mlortensen— Woman of Mlany Hobbies T would be difficult for "Aunt" Sina Mortensen of Mesa, Arizona, who was born January 19, 1868, at Pleasant Grove, Utah, to tell which of her hobbies is most important in her life, and which gives her the most pleasure. She is particularly skilled in crocheting, and her many exquisite designs reveal a keen sense of artistry and color. She is an excellent quilter, her nimble fingers always flying on Relief Society work meeting day. Her Church services have included many years as a teacher in Relief Society where she has served in varied capacities, becoming a member when she was fifteen years of age. Now a member of the Mesa First ward, and still a visiting teacher, she brings joy and comfort to many homes. She has also been Religion Class, Sunday School, and Primary teacher. ~~ <-> Come Gently. Spring Christie Lund Coles Come gently, Spring, Upon this street, Where youth once ran With jet-swift feet. Come gently, Spring, To mark the years, Where youth once shed Its war-dark tears. Come swiftly, Spring, Peace thread your rain, For youth is coming Home again. Page 317 The Deeper Melody CHAPTER 8—CONCLUSION Alice Morrey Bailey ARGARET was waiting for M Steve on the steps of the nurse's home. He _ rushed up to her, gripped her elbows in his palms, and searched her face. Her eyes were enormous and brilliant in her chilled face. She looked near hysteria. "Steve!" she said through stiff lips. "Steve, I've broken my engagement." Light splintered in Steve's brain, cut he held his physical reactions calm. He put her wordlessly into his car and headed for the mountains. "Relax," he told her quietly. "Don't talk, but lean your head back and rest." She leaned her head against the cushions and closed her eyes, but her set features told Steve she was not relaxing, and she was not resting. He drove on, praying silently for the right words to say, the right things to do. When he had reached a point high above the valley, he turned the car into a sideway and switched off the engine. 'There was no sound there except the gentle sighing of the pines, and no light except the moon, which was shining full and bright. He turned to Margaret. "Tell me about it," he commanded. "Tt wasn't just one thing, Steve," she said without moving or opening her eyes. "It was many things—first the way I felt about him, and the way I felt about you. I said I felt guilty about that, but I thought it Page 318 would come after we were married —the right feeling, I mean. And then you said admiration was not love." Her incoherent words made beautiful sense to Steve, but he refrained from pressing the questions that rushed in upon him. "Go on," he said. "It was finally the babies." "The babies?" queried Steve. "Your babies—Phyllis and Ilene. The way they came to me last Saturday. We quarreled about it, and you know, Steve, a quarrel is sometimes a very good thing. 'Truth comes out in a quarrel. Rex doesn't want children. He said he was never going to have any children, and I could jolly well make up my mind to that." "Could a man really mean a thing like that?" marvelled Steve. "He meant it, all right. He said he had worked hard for his place in his profession, and no encumbrance of children was going to change his course. He said family responsibilities had wrecked his father's career, forcing him into choices he did not want, and they were not going to wreck his. I could never change his ideas on that, or, in fact, anything else. I could see very clearly what my life would be. I would cease to be an individual. I could not even be a woman." "Thank fortune you saw it in time, darling," Steve commented. "Only, Steve! Why didn't I see it before? Why did I have to wait THE DEEPER MELODY until everything was so hopelessly involved?" "It isn't hopelessly involved." "Tt is! It is! All those invitations sent out, all those gifts that have come—the parties, the people, and the disgrace. I don't mind for myself, but much as I disagree with Rex, how can I let him in for this? He is a prominent man, and there will be publicity and gossip. Especially when it was all my fault. He loathes publicity, and gossip might ruin him professionally." SeVOU are excited, dear. This thing has built up in your mind. His friends will be secretly relieved at not having so much to do, the gossips will be delighted with a choice tidbit until another one comes along, and what they say will build up his practice, not wreck it. It will not be easy, dearest, but we ll help you—your mother and I. Can you move from the nurse's home tonight? I'll put you in a hotel where no one can find you, and we'll do the telephoning." She shook her head. "No. This is my music and I'll have to face it," she said, and Steve had to be content. On the way back to the home Steve longed to explore what she had said about her feelings for him, but one glance at her face warned him she had taken the last ounce of emotion she could tolerate for one day, so he left her, full of worry for her, full of misgivings, at the steps where he had picked her up. After he left her, however, the worries grew. By morning, if he knew Dr. Harmon, or any man, Steve reasoned, the fellow would have faced all these consequences 319 and be willing to concede anything. He would be on the telephone or there to meet her, promising her anything her heart desired. In the face of all that was built up, could she withstand the man? He went directly to Mrs. Crain, awakened her, and told her what had happened. "Great day!" she exclaimed, but sobered on the next thought. "It's going to be hard for her, Steve." "It is," agreed Steve grimly, "I still think the hotel is a good idea. P'll make a reservation and send you there with your things. Get her, Mother Crain, as soon as you can. Get her away from that hospital and handle everything from the hotel. For her sake, and for mine, guard her from that oversized sense of duty." The week that followed was the combined nightmare of anxiety and the heaven of seeing Margaret when he wished, of calling her several times a day, of taking her out every night, while her mother sat uncomplainingly with the children and aided and abetted his every plan. He availed himself of all the messengers—flowers, books, and candy —that he had longed to use before, but in all that week he mentioned no word of his own love for her. It was more than concern for her; it was a point of pride. He did not want the company, even in_ her thinking, of the other man. He wanted her free and clear of Dr. Harmon before he brought his own love again to her attention. Rather, his messages were of gaiety, even nonsense. "This is the night watchman making his rounds," he would report. 320 "Steve, you're insane," she would say, but her laughter was music to his ears. FE, took her to movies, quietly watching her face instead of the screen, to theatres, to dine and dance, and to the symphony to hear Jascha Heifetz. On the day she was to have been married he appeared at her hotel early in the morning and telephoned from the lobby. "Tl give you and your mother ten minutes to dress, my lady. 'The children are out in the car, complete with lunch basket. 'Today we are going to Cripple Creek." "Steve, I can't," she said miserably. He could tell she had been crying. "f won't take no for an answer. Either you come down, or I'll come up." Steve, you slave driver!" She came, though, in twenty-five minutes, not ten, dressed in a plaid skirt and a white blouse, much bathed as to eyes, which were swollen in spite of it. Mrs. Crain flashed Steve a secret look of misgiving and thanks. Steve ignored everything and loaded them in with high adventure. "Have you ever been to Cripple Creek?" he asked them, and was glad they said no, because he felt he could rely on the magnificent Corley Mountain Highway to interest them. Up and up they went, the road doubling back on itself in its sheer climb into grandeur. Steve was gratified to see color creep into Margaret's cheeks, excitement into her eyes, as she caught her breath "Don't you dare. I look a fright. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 in the dark beauty of aspens and pines, of lakes mirrored far below, of vista on vista unrolled, of solitude and loveliness. 'This was a veritable paradise of crag and forest, of glass-clear creeks and thundering cataracts. Steve had traveled it many times, but its beauty never failed to smite him anew. He felt a personal pride in showing it to Margaret and her mother. Even the little children watched the trees flash by in silent wonder. HEY ate in a meadow two miles from Cripple Creek, beside a spring that bubbled out from between two rocks. A weatherbrowned log house, abandoned, sans doors and windows, stood at the edge of the forest. Margaret loved it. "Oh, Steve! Look at it," she cried. "I want that sweet little house. This is a paradise. Wouldn't it be fun to live here?" "Tt would, indeed," agreed Steve, deciding then and there to investigate the possibility of buying it for a vacation home. One could have horses and pasture them in the lush meadow for long trips in the surrounding mountains. It ought not to cost a great deal. "I lave never passed this spot without thinking the same thing!" "It's like a chapter from a Fortyminer tale," she said of Cripple Creek. "Steve, I can't believe it!" It was picturesque, the old, shacky buildings mingled with the new of modern machinery, the steep streets, and the little church with the old-fashioned steeple just beyond the modern school and library. As if to confirm Margaret's ob- THE DEEPER MELODY servation, a burro, long-eared and slightly larger than a big dog, ambled out into the street and stopped in front of Steve's car. He applied the brakes and was able to halt short of hitting it, and they waited while its small Mexican master, with high excitement, wildly expressive eyes, and vivid Latin invective, tried to pull the stubborn little animal off the street. It pulled back on the frayed rope around its neck, and sat upon its haunches. The children shouted, Phyllis cried with fright, and Margaret and her mother laughed until they were weak. Several of the lad's friends came running; Steve got out of the car, and with concerted effort they pulled and pushed the determined little beast from in front of the car. Yes, it was a day to remember, and it accomplished its purpose. The women were relaxed on the way home and the children slept. Steve delivered Margaret and her mother back at the hotel weary to the bone, which was, this time, exactly as he wanted it. "She'll sleep tonight," prophesied Mrs. Crain. "She hasn't slept all week for thinking, and Dr. Harmon has pestered her every minute you haven't."' "She's had quite a week then, between us," said Steve contritely. EVERTHELESS, sharing Cripple Creek and the Corley Mountain Highway was solid and good within him, and only a sample of all the things he wanted to show her. He mentioned it to J. T. The next day. "You took your best girl to Cripple Creek yesterday?" repeated J. T'., swinging around to stare at him 321 suspiciously. "Steve, are you still letting that secretary lead you around by the nose?" "You jump at conclusions, J. 'T.," complained Steve. "You remember the nurse I told you about?" A broad grin spread over J. T.'s face. "You cut out her beau!" he guessed. "He cut himself out," Steve temporized. "She gave his ring back last week." "You don't say!"" remarked J. T. Happily. "Have you popped the question yet?" "You're too inquisitive," accused Steve, but went on, "I did that the day Sam was hurt. She turned me down." "Hm-m," said J. 'T., wrinkling his brow in thought. "Steve, a man in your position should buy a home." "['m going to," said Steve. "I've been looking for just the right thing. The place I'm in isn't." "T know just the right place for you,' J. T. Cut in. "A friend of mine built it a year ago. In fact, it isn't finished, and it's a bargain for twenty-three thousand." "Twenty-three thousand!" exclaimed Steve. "What're you trying to do, J. T., line your friend's pockets at my expense? Where would I get that kind of money—or even a down payment?" "You've got to learn to think in bigger terms, boy," said J. T. "As for the down payment, I've never given you the bonus on that Kettle Creek deal, and you've got it coming. You go see that house—and take the girl along with you." He told Margaret nothing except that he had a surprise for her. She looked uncommonly well and 322 rested. Steve could hardly drive for looking at her. Her eyes were happy and her mouth at peace. Steve put his hand over hers which was _ lying in the seat between them. She jumped visibly and flushed with pleasure. "Are you as happy as you look today?" ARGARET sighed. "Perhaps I should tell you that Rex left this morning for Boston. He had an offer there he has wanted to take. Dr. Hanson wanted him in with him here. In fact, he was using the loan of his home as a little pressure point to swing Rex his way—letting us get married from there." "Tt is all finished, then? Are you Sorry?" "Sorry? No, Steve. No!' It was Steve's turn to sigh, with huge relief. Margaret looked at him sharply. "It strikes me, Steve, that, in my selfishness this past week—and_before, I have given you a bad time." "That you have, milady," agreed Steve lightly, "but you've given me heaven, too." They had driven far out, toward the hills, and suddenly they were at the house. It was fabulous. "I can't believe this is it," said Steve. "Believe it's what?" queried Margaret. "You mystify me, Steve. Whose gorgeous place is this?" "The place we're going to buy," said Steve, preoccupied with ringing the doorbell. When there was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 no answer he stepped back and compared the number with the address J. T. Had given him. "It's the one, all right. The key fits!" They swung wide the door and entered, looking around in unbelief at the beauty which greeted them. They went from room to room with little cries of delight, calling attention of each other to artistic touches or clever features. 'The builders had trapped spaciousness, sunlight, and mountain water with rare woods, gleaming chrome, and expert workmanship. 'Terraced down a sharp incline, it was raw and unfinished in some places, beautifully finished in others. 'They came at last to the picture window in the living room. It looked down upon a potential garden of black loam, sloping gently to a crystal brook, with natural woods beyond. There was a small, but complete orchard newly leafed, and space for vegetables. Here was space for growing legs to run, work for hands. 'Five bedrooms!" Margaret was saying, "and all that black soil! Steve, we can plant." She stopped short, lifting sweet, embarrassed eyes to Steve. "You said it correctly, darling. We can plant." He took a step toward her. "That kiss..." he began, thinking of the one in her office, the only one, but words were too slow. "That kiss," she finished for him when she could breathe again, "was the final argument." With No Regrets Myrtle M. Dean HE came into my room; her eyes were sparkling pools of gladness, her lips were parted in a_ sweet smile. She was my youngest daughter, Marcia. A wave of happiness swept through me to see her there, young, beautiful, and good. I have reared her to be so, I thought, with a pleased satisfaction in me. She spoke breathlessly, "Mother, Jerry has asked me to marry him. Oh, I'm so happy." My stomach twisted into a knot, my heart sank heavily, and my surprise showed in my face. "Marry!" I said. "Why, darling, you are little more than a baby, and are barely out of high school. Of course Jerty ls a fine boy, but there is plenty of time for marriage after you have done—oh, so many things." I did not want to hurt her. I didn't want to tie her to my apron strings, but there was so much I had planned we would do together when we had time—when we had time I censured myself. Now I realized how I had let the daily grind of everyday things crowd out the little special things I had intended to do with my children. Marcia was my last one, and I clung to the thought of a little more time. She looked at me, crestfallen. The bright gladness had fled from her eyes. "But Mother, we are in love, really in love,' she said solemnly. They were in love, and in September they were married. I tried to make her wedding a lovely one, but I was lonely and overwhelmed with regrets. Not for big things | had left undone. It was the little things—things that my children could have held close in memory all their days. We OK OK OK OK heard footsteps on the front porch, and then little feet hurtying down the hall. "Hi, Grandma, you got any cookies?" It was Jack and Judy, my son's children. Jack was seven and Judy five. "Mommy says we can come and see you a little while," Jack said. I was glad there were cookies in the cookie jar. I looked at the clock, for their mother was careful about their eating between meals. It was just three o'clock, so a few cookies and a glass of milk would be all right. I took their hands and led them out to the kitchen. When they had finished eating we went out to the back garden. Judy flitted about like a lovely butterfly over the green grass. Jack hurried hither and thither exploring about the yard. They discovered a thing I had not seen there—a robin's nest in the red maple behind the house. 'There were four blue eggs nestled down in the softness of lint and feathers. They found a hornet's nest, shapely and beautifully fashioned, clinging to the eaves of the garage. "T've seen hornet's nests, and the inside has little pockets like honeycomb," Jack said. "Do they eat honey like the bees do?" he asked. I could not tell him, and I found there were many of their questions Page 323 324 that I could not answer. I must find out more about all these things. I wanted to keep up with my grandchildren. Judy. Ran back in fear, as she heard the bees buzzing about the flowers. Some were deep in the heart of the honeysuckle blooms. Jack proudly explained how the bees stole nectar from the flowers and carried it to a hive and placed it in the honeycomb that they had made to hold their honey. I smiled at his knowledge. Then the children lay in the shade on the grass to rest, while I sat nearby. We looked up at the blue ceiling of sky. Soft billowy clouds floated about, forming lovely pictures on the blue background. The children were delighted as they found them; flocks of white geese feeding by the side of a deep blue pond, fleecy lambs gamboling over the meadows, beautiful trees covered with downy snowflakes, and great giants trying to push stones off a mountainside and hurl them down to earth. 'Then there were ships filled with bold pirates sailing swiftly across the sea to capture the gold that clung to the western sky at sunset, and to carry away all the crimson robes and purple, silken shawls that were lying on the mountain top as the sun slipped out of sight. The children and I laughed together, and I felt lighthearted and happy after this afternoon spent with my grandchildren. Perhaps some of my regrets could be lessened by trying to help my grandchildren find more of the beauty and goodness each day can hold. I had a great desire to help my young parents avoid regrets when their children would have gone to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 make homes of their own, to help them now to want to take snatches of every day to bind their children's hearts close by the things they could share. 'There are so many things to share: buttercups in the meadows, fish leaping in a sparkling stream, the lovely colors in a stone, a frightened rabbit or squirrel scampering away into the bushes. There is the wild, sweet aroma of burning mesquite or sage, with the hypnotic mystery of a veil of smoke from a campfire; then there are moments to quietly meditate and dream—dreams that uplift the spirit. Morning sunrise is more than a signal to dress and eat a hurried meal, then rush to school or to work. Each rosy sunrise is the beginning of a wonderful new day. As the gray dawn flees after the quiet of the night, then come the morning sounds—the birds, with first their gentle chatter in the treetops, then a bursting forth into their sweetest songs. And every hour of every day can give something fine and beautiful. It is worthwhile to enjoy the evening as the sun sinks low, and the sky is pointed with streaks of orange and gold and crimson, like fireworks sent up from some other world, when a soft glow is cast on the eastern hills that shelter the valley, the colors turning royal blue and terra cotta and smoky lavender which ends in misty gray, and then it is night. 'The lights of the day go out, but are replaced by a blue dome of sky filled with glittering, silver stars and a crescent moon. Then comes. The sweetest time of all, when the family has gathered after the long day—a time for re- WITH NO REGRETS viewing of each other's doings; a bit of news or a chance adventure, time for reading, or the telling of a story. When the little one's eyes are heavy with sleepiness, cuddle them close and take them to fairyland, or better still, tell them a true story. Have you heard your child say, "Tell me about daddy when he was a little boy." "Tell me about mother when she was a child like me.' One need not always tell thrilling tales of adventure, but just the little intimate things that draw the children close. Stories of grandparents, of their faith, and their pioneer adventures will bind their hearts to their forefathers. 325 Have you heard people say, many times, "If my parents had just told me more about their lives and of their people." "Why didn't I ask my father and mother more before they were gone? Now it is too late." Perhaps the things that we crowd out of our days for want of time are the big things, after all. We will forget what we have eaten, the bed we slept in, and the grind of daily things, but the lovely times of closeness and beauty will linger to make our lives more glorious and our children's love more secure. With no regrets, we shall send them out to live joyous lives of their own. +<—>-~ Si allen G tant Josephine |. Harvey No longer will its shadow fall Across the corner of my lawn; Long, green fingers will not lift To hold the shining dawn. Yet in this quiet place, My eyes will always see The shadow-image Of a well-remembered tree. Motherhood Ivinetta R. Oliver So many tasks each day to do! It seems to me I'm never through With work. The house to clean. The hands that need Be washed, the knees to scrub, And mouths to feed. As all day long I hurry there I wonder how my load I'll bear. But when the western sky is red And babes are gently tucked in bed, Asleep, I sit me down And softly sigh Because my mending box Is piled so high. I sew, and rock, and doze a bit; I am so tired when lamps are lit. And Dad, beside me, reads the news, Contented is my mood. I muse And smile. I do not care How tired my feet. We have our own dear home And babies sweet. I'll do each task as best I can And ask no more of life's brief span. Thou Shalt Dever Cease to Grow Caroline Eyring Miner She is over cighty, that wonderful mother of mine, and she is following the unwritten commandment, Thou shalt never cease to grow, literally. She is a member of the stake Sunday School board and does her studying and her visiting religiously. She is still reading for the public at showers and other entertainments; she still loves books, particularly the scriptures, and reads much. Her enthusiasm in life and in the beauties of nature is undiminished. She is ageless, and largely, because she has never ceased to grow. "The glory of God is intelligence' (D. & C. 93:36), is a philosophy of the Church to which we should give more than lip service. It has been stated in other ways: "As man is, God once was, and as God is man may become." How is this possible? By making the most of our time and talents. Time does not hang heavy on the hands of one who keeps the commandment, Thou shalt never cease to grow. Interesting things to learn about and to learn to do, are infinite. Think of Grandma Moses, Winston Churchill, and others who have adventured into painting or other new fields in later years. I recall as a child the many occasions when we read some of the choice books together, Tennyson's poems, The Last of the Mohicans, David Copperfield, the stories from the Bible and The Book of Mormon. We all learned to love books as children, and it has been a priceless heritage. 'There was an active participation in reading that our television-watching children of today can never know. 'There was a freer choice of what was enjoyed. We took many walks as children, analyzing rocks, gathering and examining wild flowers, enjoying the sunset and the sunrise, and the birds' singing and nesting. We loved to lie on our backs and watch the varied cloud formations; I still trace in memory the intricate patterns of ice and frost we studied and loved as children. We were keeping the commandment to grow always. All nature seems to follow this command: a tree puts on ring after ring of growth as long as life lasts; a seed pushes up and up through cement cracks or under porches, overcoming any handicap to grow and grow. Bodies, both human and animal, grow and change as long as life lasts. "Thou shalt never cease to grow" is a commandment every mother should exemplify and teach to her children, for in keeping that commandment one will have eternal youth and happiness. Vacation Yust Beyond Mary Gustafson New lambs run the pasture, Calves frisk in meadow-green, Puppies chase the kittens With just a pace between. A colt romps through the morning, Three ducklings swim the pond; And sonny counts the hours away To summer, just beyond. Page 326; Mla gazine None y Banks Ida G. Garrett, St. Anthony Second Ward, Yellowstone Stake, Displays the Money Banks Which Provided 114 Magazine Subscriptions for Her Ward [* January 1953, Sister Garrett made unique Magazine banks and distributed them among the members of her ward so that when the time came for the renewal of subscriptions, each sister would have her money ready — and never miss the $1.50. When the special "Magazine Day" arrived, seventy-five women were present, all bringing in their banks, which were then opened. Some of the sisters had saved more than enough money to pay for their Magazines, others a few cents less, and some had saved just enough for the price of a subscription. The result was twenty-five new subscriptions and eighty-nine renewals, making a total of 114 Magazines placed in a ward with only ninety-six members. On this special "Magazine Day," a program, taken entirely from the Magazine, was presented, and the Magazine representative had new banks ready for the sisters to begin saving subscription money for another year. The banks were made by fastening two paper plates together with tinfoil, and trimmed with ribbon. The banks were colorful and attractive and added to the decoration of the home kitchens. A small slit was made in the top of each bank for the insertion of coins. Page 327 Magazine Subscriptions for 1953 Counselor Marianne C. Sharp HE loyalty, appreciation, and zeal which Relief Society Magazine representatives devote to their work of placing The Relief Society Magazine in Latter-day Saint homes and the support of the Relief Society officers, are greatly appreciated by the general board. 'Through the outstanding services of Magazine representatives The Relief Society Magazine as of December 31, 1953, was found in 121,014 homes. 'This Magazine for women goes into more Church homes than any _ other Church magazine. Latter-day Saint standards are reflected in all the contents of the Magazine. 'The Relief Society lessons contained therein, if studied and lived, will implement the words of the Prophet Joseph Smith when he directed that this society should save souls and that the society should assist by correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of the community. It is a far-reaching service which Magazine representatives perform in placing The Relief Society Magazine in the homes of the sisters of the Church. Many who excel in their calling have given years of devoted service. Year after year, some of the same names appear with outstanding records of achievement on the honor roll. Page 328 While all manuscripts which are submitted for publication are not accepted, it gives the general board satisfaction to find how widespread geographically are the submissions of sisters who show a desire to increase their writing talents and speak to the sisterhood throughout the world from the pages of The Relief Society Magazine. With the increase of 7,613 subscriptions in 1953 over 1952, the hearts of ward and stake Magazine representatives should rejoice. Fifteen more stakes made the honor roll in 1953 than in 1952 and there were sixty-seven stakes = which achieved 100 per cent or over (nearly one-third of all the stakes); there were forty-seven who made percentages between ninety and one hundred; and forty-six who made percentages from eighty to ninety. The average number of subscriptions steadily rises each year. The general board is happy that the support of the sisters enables their Magazine to continue to be published by and for them, and, in addition, rejoices to realize that this type of reading material, calculated to encourage and ennoble, is welcomed into Latter-day Saint homes throughout the world. Gipee for Highest Ratings Stake South Los Angeles (California) 245% Magazine Representative—Nancy Rupp Ward Downey First Ward, South Los Angeles Stake (California) 329% Magazine Representative—Connie Price Missions Western States—115% Mission Relief Society President—Mildred M. Dillman Mission District West Nebraska District, Western States Mission, 203% District Magazine Representative—Emma Mae Allen Mission Branch Skamokawa Branch—360% Puget Sound District, Northwestern States Mission Magazine Representative—Anna Jean Hedelius Ten Highest Percentages in Stakes South Los Angeles 22..22102-2eeeseeee eee245..--Nancy Rupp San JOaquin "2.0 eee eeeeeeee eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 150 Retta J. Watkins reFro oc ceo ea147 Mae A. Boyer | 140 Elsie Weber Ci) a 132 Enid O. Heise Minidoka 2.-eesceeeeeec eee eeeeeeeeeee! Ae. 127 Myrtle C. Lloyd 0126 Flora Buggert Shelley 2.22..2-21-seseeseeeeee cee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee- 1 24 Merle Young Vo.) 124 Martha J. Erickson 1, ae 120 Leona Budge East Los Angeles 2..------s+-eeceseeeeeeeeeeeeeee Missions Achieving Ten 120 Zelma Beck Highest Percentages Western States Central States New England 0.2.02..0.222.2.22eeceeeeeee cece cece California Oe ee wen wee eee eww ee ese eee ee esse ee ee ewes es eee een ees eee we ew ee eee eee eee eee eee se weet ee eee ee wwe ee ee ee ewe ee ew ee eee eas seen eens West Central States Canadian tt rr rrr ry Mildred M. Dillman.. Annie M. Ellsworth Carol Clark La Priel Bunker gl Phyllis D. Smith 89 Nettie P. Smoot Laura M. Hawkes 85 -Marteal W. Hendricks 85 Anna H. Toone 85 -Elizabeth H. Zimmerman Page 329 330 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 Ten Stakes With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions South Los Angeles 2432 Moapa g10 Blackfoot 987 Sevier 846 Mesa 961 Big Horn 845 Glendale 958 Burley 822 San Fernando 929 East Long Beach 817 Ten Missions With Highest Number of Subscriptions No. No. Subscriptions Subscriptions Central States 1288 Northwestern States 883 Texas-Louisiana 1230 Central Atlantic States 831 Southern States 1158 California 680 Western States 1032 Eastern States 678 West Central States gol Great Lakes 639 Stakes in Which All the Wards Achieved 100% or Above Bonneville -..--Ruth Peterson Nyssa..-..-------------2-++Mae A. Boyer Burley Leona Budge Pasadena -..--Louise Willard Fast Long Beach Margaret Bryan Pocatello -.-Margaret 'Thomas East Los Angeles Zelma Beck Rexburg --.--Martha J. Erickson Glendale -Elsie Weber San Joaquin Retta J. Watkins Grant -.02.202.. EeeeeeeCaroline R. Bennett Santa Monica Lillie K. Whitehead Long Beach.: -Ethel Sponberg Shelley -2--2.-++Merle Young Moapa --2---+-00++Florence A. Johnson South Los Angeles Nancy Rupp Mission Percentages on Honor Roll Western States 115 Canadian 85 Central States 113, Western Canadian 85 New England 95 Eastern States 84 California 94 Northern California 84 Texas-Louisiana gl Southern States 84 Northern States 89 Northwestern States 83 North Central States 86 Central Atlantic States 75 West Central States 85 Stakes by Percentages South Los Angeles 245 Union 116 Wilford 107 San Joaquin 150 Palo Alto 116 Grant 107 Nyssa 147. Santa Monica 115 New York 107 Glendale 140 Long Beach 114. Nampa 106 Oquitrh 132 Moapa 113. East Sharon 106 Minidoka 127. Idaho Falls 113 Riverdale 106 Provo 126 San Bernardino 113 Bonneville 106 Shelley 124 Boise 112 Sevier 106 Rexburg | 124 South Salt Lake 111 North Tooele 105 Burley 120 ~—- Pocatello 110 ~—-Portneuf 105 East Los Angeles 120 Pasadena 110 ~—— Liberty 105 East Long Beach 118 Cassia 110 North Idaho Falls 105 San Fernando 117. Bear River 110 Sacramento 105 MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR 1953 South Box Elder Tacoma North Rexburg Phoenix Oakland East Mill Creek East Riverside North Pocatello Ogden South Idaho Falls Granite North Box Elder Tooele Bountiful Mt. Rubidoux Emigration San Diego West Pocatello Portland Bannock American Falls Highland Sugar House Yellowstone East Ogden Carbon North Jordan Rigby Denver San Juan Mesa Weiser Ben Lomond Humboldt Malad Zion Park Taylor Mill Creek St. Joseph San Jose Raft River Blackfoot San Francisco Twin Falls Inglewood Big Horn Bakersfield FE] Paso St. George West Utah Cottonwood Kolob Murray Deseret East Rigby 'Timpanogos Ensign 104 104 104 104 104 104 103 103 103 103 102 102 102 102 102 102 101 101 101 101 100 100 100 100 Gooding Lehi Uintah Sharon Wasatch West Jordan Monument Park Spokane Salmon River Smithfield Gnidley Maricopa South Ogden North Carbon Washington Seattle Grantsville Mt. Graham Nevada East Jordan Utah Cache Cedar South Bear River Southern Arizona University Mt. Jordan Cannon Butte Mt. Ogden Columbia River Orem Park North Davis Berkeley Teton Star Valley Lethbridge Parowan Duchesne Bear Lake Salt Lake Chicago Uvada Weber.) Palmyra Alpine Oneida Florida Davis Klamath Santa Rosa San Luis Benson Blaine Los Angeles Fresno Layton Lorin Farr Farr West Richland Emery Mt. Logan Wayne Alberta Snowflake Kanab Wells Nebo Franklin Temple View Woodruff Young North Weber Reno Lost River East Lethbridge East Provo Montpelier Juab North Sanpete Pioneer Hillside Roosevelt South Sevier Williamette Santa Barbara Detroit Hyrum East Cache South Davis Beaver Idaho Santaquin-Tintic Logan South Summit Garfield Juarez North Sevier Millard Panguitch St. Johns Moon Lake Riverside Lake View Summit South Sanpete Gunnison Lyman Moroni Morgan South Carolina Oahu Relief Society Alberta Stake Alpine Stake American Falls Stake Bakersfield Stake Bannock Stake Bear Lake Stake Bear River Stake Ben Lomond Stake Benson Stake Berkeley Stake Big Horn Stake Blackfoot Stake Blaine Stake Boise Stake Bonneville Stake Bountiful Stake Burley Stake Butte Stake Cache Stake Cannon Stake Carbon Stake Cassia Stake Cedar Stake Chicago Stake Columbia River Stake EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 650 828 324 342 353 522 461 342 631 561 876 1013 268 689 684 636 683 288 603 284 516 692 325 328 355 443 505 338 520 483 845 987 221 769 726 648 822 250 535 247 Pet. Ho 84 100 96 101 85 110 99 82 86 96 97 82 112 106 102 120 87 89 87 616 195 641 424 417 613% 100 214 110 568 87 358 84 360 8687 Magazine Representative Afton L. Remington Sadie Meredith Harriet Peterson Ethel Phillips Ida Sorenson Millie Sprouse Rennis A. Larkin Helen W. Jensen Ruth J. White Bertha Anderson Elma S. Johnson Almira Clayton Ruth W. Benson L. Emma Cordon Ruth Peterson Myrtle B. Hatch Leona Budge Harriet Millecam Orilla J. Lucas Jessie Johnson Gertrude Edwards Jane R. Hale Venice W. Prince Florence G. Andrew Della V. Davis Relief Society Gridley Stake Highland Stake Hillside Humboldt Stake Idaho Falls Stake Inglewood Stake Juab Stake Kanab Stake Klamath Stake Kolob Stake Layton Stake Lehi Stake Lethbridge Stake Liberty Stake Long Beach Stake Lorin Farr Stake Los Angeles Stake Lost River Stake Malad Stake Maricopa Stake Mesa Stake Mill Creek Stake Minidoka Stake Moapa Stake Montpelier Stake STAKES ON HONOR ROLL-1953 ment No. 3885 351 782 785 860 650% 171 169 465 524% 687 663 543 415 444 349 3538 292 794 752 409 335 525 490 451 385 772 660 A421 582 241 578 781 344 480 187 571 709 EnrollSubscriptions Pet. Oi 100 76 99 113 97 77 7" 83 95 82 93 85 812% 105 750 114 82 82 78 93 on 967 454 493 806 658 961 9 445 98 628% 127 910 113 505 77 Magazine Representative Violet Gray Lucy Harman Dorothy C. Bushnell Charlotte S. Ferguson Ila Stoddard Magdalen Lake Allige L. Anderson Nellie Heaton DeEtte Wray Ivy C. Anderson Dorsey Hodgson Hazel May Bone Emily Anderson Emily Platt Smith Ethel Sponberg Maude Close Velma Shurley Evelyn Pearson Mary B. Bush Opal W. Williams Lola White Alberta Startup Myrtle C. Lloyd Florence A. Johnson Hilda Parker 332 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 Cottonwood Stal. E Davis Stake Denver Stake Deseret Stake Detroit Stake Duchesne Stake East Jordan Stake East Lethbridge Stake East Long Beach Stake East Los Angeles Stake East Mill Creek Stake East Ogden Stake East Provo Stake East Rigby Stake East Riverside Stake East Sharon Stake El Paso Stake Emery Stake Emigration Stake Ensign Stake Farr West Stake Florida Stake Franklin Stake Fresno Stake Glendale Stake Gooding Stake Granite Stake Grant Stake Grantsville Stake 693 656 546 753 322 253 699 458 690 657 604 513 580 561 464 287 286 682 405 863 534 417 773 352 686 466 639 648 320 659 543 542 707 241 215 6233 353 817 791 626 512 447 526 478 305 273 550 412 807 431 346 606 290 958 436 6544 692% 287 95 83 99 94 75 85 89 a 118 120 104 100 77 94 103 106 95 81 102 94 81 83 78 82 140 94 102 107 90 Mildred A. Mollerup Effie B. Miller Bernice H. Brown Alpha Nielson Nora Jane Souter Ora Holgate Lovenna S. Cook June N. Allred Margaret Bryan Zelma Beck Mary T. Maxfield Karene N. Straw Sarah H. Passey Dale Burtenshaw Erma L. Haslam Edna M. Hansen Wilhelmina Bowman Fern M. Chappell Emily C. Pollei Emma P. Imlay Bertha R. England Renie Tompkins Phyllis W. Kingsford Claris Matheson Elsie Weber Mary Roy Clara M. Love Caroline R. Bennett Ruth Rydalch Monument Park Stake Mt. Graham Stake Mt. Jordan Stake Mt. Logan Stake Mt. Ogden Stake Mt. Rubidoux Stake Murray Stake Nampa Stake Nebo Stake Nevada Stake New York Stake North Box Elder Stake North Carbon Stake North Davis Stake No. Idaho Falls Stake North Jordan Stake North Pocatello Stake North Rexburg Stake North Sanpete Stake North Tooele Stake North Weber Stake Nyssa Stake Oakland Stake Ogden Stake Oneida Stake Oquirrh Stake Orem Stake Palmyra Stake Palo Alto Stake 512 612 621 624 639 425 747 582 721 364 233 591 448 554 714 Tae 389 627 618 457 592 379 648 632 660 448 513 964 426 A470 548 541 499 554 433 704 619 565} 325 249 604 404 478 751 719 400 654 4687s 482 461 557 672 64913 551 592 444 807 A494 92 90 87 80 87 102 94 106 78 89 107 102 90 86 105 100 103 104 76 105 78 147 104 103 83 132 87 84 116 Hazel Swain Myrtle Tenney Bertha S. Powell Mary M. Larsen Iona D. Coombs Hilda Peel Clara M. Duffin Isabell Svedin Emma Wilson Susan A. Mulliner Glenette C. Jones Christina N. Bott Lydia Bendall Elsie J. Bennett Janet L. Landon Elthura Mackay Opal K. Green Arvilla Parkinson Ruby T. Hansen Jennie A. Wallin Louise T. Randall Mae A. Boyer Agnes M. Nelson Chloe F. Summerill Eulalia W. Larsen Enid O. Heise Alice W. Harris Juanita J. Howard Dorothy J. Peterson HONOR ROLL 333 Relief Society Park Stake Parowan Stake Pasadena Stake Phoenix Stake Pioneer Stake Pocatello Stake Portland Stake Portneuf Stake Provo Stake Raft River Stake Reno Stake Rexburg Stake Richland Stake Rigby Stake Riverdale Stake Roosevelt Stake Sacramento Stake St. George Stake St. Joseph Stake Salmon River Stake Salt Lake Stake San Bernardino Stake San Diego Stake San Fernando Stake San Francisco Stake San Joaquin Stake EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 765 366 718 924 532 463 448 439 473 178 584 594 453 699 387 571 670 750 519 151 849 327 667 797 386 413 661% 312 789 963 403% 510 453 463 594 174 454 736 366 696 411 432 704 716 509 138 720 368 676 929 373 621 Pet. 86 85 110 104 76 110 101 105 126 98 78 124 81 100 106 76 105 95 98 91 85 113 101 117 97 150 Magazine Representative Pearl E. Rohde Bertha W. Mitchell Louise Willard Claradell S. De Witt Lucille P. Noyce Margaret Thomas Dolores E. Zobelle Ada L. Parris Flora Buggert Alice O. Neddo Louise L. Bell Martha J. Erickson Lillian Patterson Sara Simmons Ruby B. Erickson Ona W. Taylor Martha V. Gattiker Agnes S. Pickett Nira P. Lee Eunice Hartvegson Franziska E. L. Kooymen Evelyn W. Heath Enid Miller Helen Yaple Josephine Danford Retta J. Watkins Relief Society Twin Falls Stake Uintah Stake Union Stake University Stake Utah Stake Uvada Stake Wasatch Stake Washington Stake Wayne Stake Weber Stake Weiser Stake Wells Stake West Jordan Stake West Pocatello Stake West Utah Stake Wilford Stake Willamette Stake Woodruff Stake Yellowstone Stake Young Stake Zion Park Stake EnrollSubscriptions ment No. 662 740 441 571 468 292 662 550 322 783 418 880 866 657 555 635 396 527 684 393 369 640 690 513 499 417 246 614 496 257 659 414 692% 796 666 528% 679 299 414 684 307 364 Pet. | 93 116 87 89 84 93 90 80 84 4] 79 92 101 95 107 76 78 100 78 99 Magazine Representative Ruth Lanning Elsie M. Palmer Lenora Blanchard Etta B. Cowles Bertha Memmott Betty L. Young Gladys Blackley Mary E. Stimpson Emma B. Forsyth Florence W. Wright Amy R. Williams Mabel E. Wood Elma S. Johnson Ione Slayden Cleo L. Thatcher Dorothy R. Larson Mary Ann Lamoreaux Naomi Harris Edna Heward Josephine H. Maher Lillian E. Roundy 334 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 330 397 499 335 449 432 551 797 376 598 662 San Jose Stake San Juan Stake San Luis Stake Santa Barbara Stake Santa Monica Stake Santa Rosa Stake Seattle Stake Sevier Stake Sharon Stake Shelley Stake Smithfield Stake Snowflake Stake 744 South Bear River Stake 551 South Box Elder Stake 608 South Idaho Falls Stake 534 So. Los Angeles Stake 993 South Ogden Stake 441 South Salt Lake Stake 685 South Sevier Stake 530 Southern Arizona Stake 500 Spokane Stake 415 Star Valley Stake 735 Sugar House Stake 757 Tacoma Stake 405 Taylor Stake 637 Temple View Stake 741 Teton Stake 460 Timpanogos Stake 543 Tooele Stake 414 323 394 412 252 516 357 495 846 349 742 604 588 485 635 548 2432 399 759 400% 437 380 629 757 423 625 580% 3952 509 422 98 99 83 75 115 83 90 106 93 124 of 79 88 104 103 245 90 111 76 87 92 86 100 104 98 78 86 94 102 Irene D. Perkins Vivian W. Redd Opal McDaniel Edith G. Swonger Lillie K. Whitehead Eva Southwick Chelta D. Brown Beth V. Anderson Dezzie Lamb Merle Young Althea Perkins Charlotte R. Allen Marjorie Stenquist Edith E. Baddley Renee J. Nielsen Nancy Rupp Laura M. Shearer Hedy T. Davies Louise Christiansen Edna B. Allred Edna H. Bennion Ethel R. Merrett Alta W. Whitehead Afton B. Dickson H. Della Blumel Zina G. Maland Ruby F. Christiansen Ora W. Thorne Jewel Halgren MISSIONS California Mission Canadian Mission Central Atlantic States Mission 1106 Central States Mission 1141 Eastern States Mission 806 New England Mission 369 North Central: States Mission Northern California Mission Northern States Mission Northwestern States Mission Southern States Mission Texas-Louisiana Mission West Central States Mission Western Canadian Mission 726 363 362 289 654 970 1380 1346 1060 437 Western States Mission 680 308 831 1288 678 349 310 243 584 883 1158 1230 901 370 94 85 75 113 84 95 86 84 89 83 84 91 85 85 900 1014 115 LaPriel Bunker Anna H. Toone HONOR ROLL Mabel M. Nalder Annie M. Ellsworth Eva C. Taylor Carol Clark Laura M. Hawkes Amelia P. Gardner Nettie P. Smoot Mavil A. McMurrin Emily E. Ricks Phyllis D. Smith Marteal W. Hendricks Elizabeth H. Zimmerman Mildred W. Dillman 335 ves {| FROM THE FIELD {7 Margaret C. Pickering, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Rclief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for '""Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for April 1950, page 278, and the Handbook of Instructions, page 123. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Blanche K. Reid WEST JORDAN STAKE (UTAH), BINGHAM WARD LUNCHEON AND VALENTINE PARTY HONORS CLASS LEADERS AND VISITING TEACHERS Seated, center, front row: Blanche K. Reid, President; at Sister Reid's left, First Counselor Ruth Jacques; and at Sister Reid's right, Second Counselor Lily 'Timothy and Secretary-T'reasurer Phoebe Siddoway. Sister Reid, in reporting this happy occasion, writes: "Dora B. Callicott, President, West Jordan Stake Relief Society, and her Counselor Mae Johnson were in attendance, and Sister Callicott gave a very inspirational address. She complimented the visiting teachers for their one hundred per cent record for the past two years, and the Magazine agent for obtaining one hundred per cent in 1953 and ninety-three per cent in 1952, and the excellent work of the class leaders — all of these contributing to the Bingham Rclief Society having the highest average attendance in the West Jordan Stake.... Our chapel is situated on the side hill and must be reached by a series of cement steps, which many sisters cannot climb, so this attendance is quite an honor. Our population is ever changing. Last year there were eighteen changes in the visiting teachers. We have only one former president living in the ward." Page 336 ' 337 Photograph submitted bY Viola Porritt SOUTH BEAR RIVER STAKE (UT AH). THIRD WARD VISITHUNDRED PER CENT RECORD ING TEACHERS WHO ACHIEVED ONE FOR TWO YEARS HONORED At BANQUET January 22, 1954 Front row, seated, left to right: Eliza Holland; Winifred Barfuss; Ethel Hamson, Lydia Roberts; Carol Stenquist; Tlildur Stumm; Adna Conger; Elma Fuller. Second row, standing, left to right: Evelyn Jepperson, Belva Skinner, Louie Stokes; Lillian Barfuss; Margaret Smith; Ethel Hamson, Alice Mae Buxton; Nola Rhodes; Ina Claire Fuller; Afton Rhodes; Vera John, Irene Kerr; Geneve Walker; Tekla Stenquist. Third row, standing, left to right: Dorthea Stenquist, visiting teacher supervisor; Hazel Roberts; Mae Roundy; Virgimia Hansen; Aletha Konnely; Bernice Dedrickson; Greta Stenquist; Marcella Jeppson; Sarah John; June Lee. Gertrude Iverson, 4 visiting teacher supervisor, lS not in the picture. A program was given, and esented with a Relief Society pin. Rebecca Mortensen is presid River Stake Relief Society. Each teacher was pt ent of South Bear vrncnaeel ubmitted by Grace West 3 RRAY EIGHTH W ARD VISITING TEACHERS MURRAY STAKE (UTAH). MU WHO HAVE ACHIEVED A ONE HUNDRED PER CENT RECORD FOR TWO YEARS Front row, seated, left to right: Kay Nebeker; Dwel Secretary; Helen Barrett, Second Counselor, Grace West, First Counselor; Mary Sabine; Olive Harding; 1 Second row, seated, left to right: Clara Duftin; Effic Miller; Constance Aamodt: Ione Moulton; Lottie Evans; Lois Hodginson; June Rogerson, Mary Nelson. Third row, standing, left to right: Martha Johnson, Wilhelmina Asmus; Oda Parks; Jane Jensen; Millie Nutter; Donna Walker; JZadia Norman, Edith Shelley; Pearl Ohlwiler; Laura Peterson, Effie Jensen; Annie Willams, Thelma Colgrove. Ida A. Gallagher ls president of Murray Stake Relief Society. Ja Hamblin; Clara Knight, President; Erma Fairbanks, 338 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 Photograph submitted by Alice I. Ferrin GRIDLEY STAKE (CALIFORNIA) RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS "VOICE OF THE PEOPLE" AT UNION MEETING, January 27, 1954 Stake chorister Theresa Sims stands at the right on the third row; stake organist Bernice French at the right on the second row; director of "Voice of the People," Dorothy Fife, stands at the left on the third row; Alice I. Ferrin, President, Gridley Stake Relief Society, stands at the left on the second row. Regarding this inspirational occasion, Sister Ferrin writes: "At our January union meeting we presented the very impressive special program which was given at our October Relief Society conference. We divided the program into speaking, choral groups, and Singing Mothers. We assigned different wards to do certain parts of these. We invited all officers and class leaders and all visiting teachers and anyone else who wished to attend, including the members of the Priesthood. The program was very well attended and well received. We feel that all who saw it had an increased appreciation of our heritage." Photograph submitted by Adella Ellis BEN LOMOND STAKE (UTAH), PLEASANT VIEW WARD VISITING TEACHERS HONORED AT A BANQUET FOR FIVE YEAR ACHIEVEMENT OF ONE HUNDRED PER CENT VISITING TEACHING February 5, 1954 Front row, seated, left to right: Elizabeth Jones; Lettie Ferrin; Susannah Johns; Florence Jensen; Emma Wade; Hattie Tarran, Secretary, Pleasant View Ward Relief NOTES FROM THE FIELD 339 Society; Adella Ellis, President; Norma Ferrin, First Counselor; Beth Parker, Second Counselor; Sarah Call, visiting teacher message leader; Eliza Tolman. Second row, standing, left to nght: Mary Case; Thelma Rhees; Josephine Budge; Florence Christofferson; Verna Christofferson; Verna Mayhew; Oles Rhees; Sarah Johns; Lettie Berrett; Amelia Dickamore; Edna Bailey; Mary Walton; Olive Larsen stake visiting teacher message leader; Hazel Kirk. Third row, standing, left to mght: Elizabeth Harris; Jennice Barker; Elberta Critchlow; Ruth Jones; Grace Williams; Elizabeth Rhees; Lucille Tams; Mildred Cragun, First Counselor, Ben Lomond Stake Relief Society; Eleanor T. Nielsen, President, Ben Lomond Stake Relief Society; Mildred Cottle, Second Counselor, Ben Lomond Stake Relief Society; Minnie Roylance, Secretary, Ben Lomond: Stake Relief Society. Photograph submitted by Joan W. Coombs TONGAN MISSION, RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES AT DEDICATION OF LIAHONA COLLEGE, December 1953 The Singing Mothers are seen grouped in the background, and in the front row are four members of the cast of a play given by the Relief Society. The girls are dressed as nurses, and the play was centered around the life of Florence Nightingale. Both the chorus and the girls dressed as nurses are from the Vavau District. The woman standing seventh from the right in the back row is Salote Wolfgramm, President of Vavau District Relief Society. Joan W. Coombs, President, Tongan Mission Relief Society, reports that the dedication of the college was an outstanding event in the history of this mission: "There were around 1,000 people to the dedication, including the Queen of Tonga, and many of the highly respected Tongan nobility.... Mata'aho, Princess and wife of the Crown Prince, Tungi, opened the bazaar, and then it was opened to the general public, who... Bought every article in the house in less than an hour. The evening of the bazaar our Relief Societies presented a lovely concert and a group of plays from each district." 340 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 Photograph submitted by Ione J. Simpson SOUTH IDATIO FALLS STAKE, ELEVENTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY MEMBERS AND CHILDREN Standing, back row, left to right: Second Counselor Verla Hickman; First Counselor Bessie Dawson; President ReVon H. Porter. Fone J. Simpson, President, South Idaho Falls Stake Relief Society, reports: "This ward ls composed of very young mothers. Always the children outnumber the mothers. The ward was organized in January 1952, with thirty-one Relief Society members. 'Today, the average attendance is over fiftv. This photograph was taken at a regular theology meeting, with fifty-six mothers and sixty-four children present. This group also has an outstanding Singing Mothers chorus. 'They have appeared on television, have presented a half-hour program once each month over radio station KID, as well as singing for many ward activities. 'Typical of their name, Singing Mothers, the twentyseven original members boast a total of eighty-eight children." Photograph submitted by Alice Alldredge MOAPA STAKE (NEVADA) VISITING TEACHERS WHO HAVE ACHIEVED ONE HUNDRED PER CENT DURING THE PAST YEAR Standing, center front, wearing dotted white tunic: Alice Alldredge, President, Moapa Stake Relief Society; Amy Wells, stake theology leader, next, at right; Hermese Thiess, stake music director, extreme right. Standing, second row, back of Sister Alldredge and to the mght, Glenna Waite, President, Logandale Ward Relief Society. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 341 Standing, next to the back row, and first at left: Thelma Adams, President, Las Vegas Sixth Ward Relief Society; twelfth from the left, in the same row, Winnie Prince, President Henderson Second Ward Relief Society. Standing, sixth from left, in the back row, Ann L. Jones, President, Henderson First Ward Relief Society. The picture was taken at a recent annual convention and luncheon honoring the visiting teachers of the stake. During the convention an inspirational testimony meeting was held, with over two hundred in attendance. Photograph submitted by Madge P. Fowler PASADENA STAKE (CALIFORNIA) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT A "CHORAL FESTIVAL" December 4th and December 5th, 1953 Front row, seated: eighth from the left, LaVir Millard, director; tenth from the left, Macie Evans, organist; insert, at left, Helen Wright, pianist. Madge P. Fowler, President, Pasadena Stake Relief Society, reports that these Singing Mothers practiced once a week for a whole year before giving these concerts. "Four months before the concerts were to be given, Sister Wright moved away, but she drove one hundred and fifty miles once a week to practice with the group and played for them both nights the concert was given. The organ was used with four numbers We are very proud of this fine group as the concerts were some of the loveliest ever presented in the stake." —>- Sor Wood Uxolets Ethel Jacobson Purple is for regal things—for iris tall, For massed bougainvillea on a marble wall, For a king's raiment, a sleek pigeon's breast, - And peaks of lofty mountains where cloud crowns rest. Purple is for petals stitched among the leaves On a forest altar beneath the oak's wide eaves, For love-shadowed eyes, and for dusk's folded wings; The violet's robes are for blessed things. 342 Sacred Mustie for LADIES THREE-PART CHORUSES Beside Still Waters—Hamblen.20 Bless This House—Brahe -..- 16 If Christ Came Back—O'Hara.20 In His Steps—Wilson - -.---.20 | Walked Today Where Jesus Walked—O'Hara | Will Exalt Thee, O Lord—Harris.15 O Lord Most Holy—Franck _ - 16 Oh, May I Know the Lord As Friend—Madsen -.-.-----------.20 O Saviour of the World—Goss-Ray.15 Ss. Seek Ye the Lord—Roberts.15 DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY in South Main MAIN STREET WE PAY POSTAGE — Music Sent on Approval — Use this advertisement as your order blank j i alt Lake City 1, Utah! Please send the music indicated above. [] On Approval L} Charge C] Money Enclosed | { | \ | i { FIRST OF ALL — RELIABILITY aunes 45-47 SOUTH LA. SALT LAKE CITY 1, UTAH RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MAY 1954 VIDA FOX CLAWSON Announces Three 1954 Conducted Tours HAWAII Sails from Los Angeles May 24 ALASKA Leaves Salt Lake City July 21 HISTORIC TRAIN Leaves Salt Lake City August 6 The HISTORIC TRAIN includes: Places of Interest in Church History, the Pageant at the Hill Cumorah, and many large eastern Cities. For complete details write or phone: VIDA FOX CLAWSON 966 E. So. Temple—Telephone 4-2017 Salt Lake City, Utah Bright Hour Grace Sayre Down in my garden I see a rose Burst into radiance As the wind blows; When I do not see, Only the flower Breathes the fulfillment Of its bright hour. Yet all the fragrance Of honeyed bowers Is held where the wind passed Over the flowers. Down in my garden I watch the rose Perfect its beauty As the day grows, He. Olden Dass and the lew Camilla Alexander The world is getting funny Since folks have got so wise; They used to sell eggs by the dozen, Now they sell them by the size; They used to sell fruit by the peck, Now you buy it by the pound. If you have a dollar in your purse, You can't make it go around. I guess next they'll sell molasses By the yard or by the lick The way the world is going now— It's surely changing quick. And they're all so modernistic You can't do this or that One will say "Why that's illegal" Or, Don't do that or you'll get fat" Then, whatever people want today They always seem to get, And by the easy-payment plan They're never out of debt. In days gone by, when I was young, The husband's wages kept the house. Today the husband works the same— So does his loving spouse. But in those days, when husbands came From office or from store, With a nice clean gingham apron on, His wife would meet him at the door— "You're tired, Jim, but never mind, Your supper's at its best. Come in and put your slippers on And then sit down and rest." Now when husband comes From office or from store Worn and weary, tired out, Hungry and footsore, His wife will say, ""What ails you, Jim, You look so glum and blue? All tired out? Well, don't forget That I am tired, too. So go and shave and change your clothes And give your shoes a shine. We're not eating supper home tonight— We're going out to dine." No wonder that next morning They're sick and almost dead; With all their work and worry They don't seem to get ahead. Oh, these modern days, And oh, these times of style! Give me the good old-fashioned days When living was worthwhile. The Pride of Your Library! Your Relief Society Magazines when handsomely bound into permanent yearly volumes acquire new value as excellent reference books. Just $2.50 (Cloth Binding) $3.50 (Leather Binding) Per Volume If necessary to mail them to you, the following postage rates will apply. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles ooo ee eceeeneeeeee. 25 150 to 300 miles ooo eee 228 300 to 600 miles ooo ccceceeeeeteeeeeeees 034 600 to 1000 miles 22 cette 42 1000 to 1400 miles 20000 DT 1400 to 1800 miles 220.0 60 Over 1800 miles. 69 Leave them at our converiarely located upinWn office. Deseret News Press 31 Richards St. Salt Lake City, Utah Phone 4-2581 yd) Be Modern Live Electrically Electricity does so much, UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Page 343 Strom lear and Sar SincinG MoTuHErRS There the faithful Singing Mothers Raise their tender, lovely voices Sing their gentle songs with gladness, Cheer our hearts with their sweet music. —Vida E. Manning SINGING IN RetieF Society MEETING I'll say my thoughts as I stand to sing, And hope that my Heavenly Father hears The words in my heart I cannot say, And know that I'm glad I came today. —Zina V. Marriott These poems were contributed in a poetry writing project inspired by appreciation for the poetry in The Relief Society Magazine and the literature _lessons, and sponsored by the Garland (Utah) Second Ward Relief Society. Ten women participated in the contest, all of them contributing inspirational poems on Relief Society work and home and family life. * * * Yesterday the carrier left a copy of your Magazine, addressed to Mrs. Marie FE. Leflang. I bought my home from the Leflangs in March. Apparently a change of address was not sent you, although this is the first copy of the Magazine left here. Between mails I took the liberty of reading several articles. And I was overwhelmed with some of the articles, especially "The Literature of England"— lesson 34—Alfred Lord Tennyson, Representative Victorian." I suppose it was a mere coincidence that this beautiful lesson (by Briant S. Jacobs) should come into my hands just at the time I was studying the English poets and their influence on American culture and _literature. The program of the Church and its auxiliaries has reached such proportions that my few words of encouragement seem like a still, small voice indeed, but allow me to humbly express them and wish you joy and success in the work of the Lord. —Sam J. Black Mesa, Arizona Page 344 I am now eighty-six years old and have taken The Relief Society Magazine, with the exception of two years, ever since it has been published, and have always enjoyed it. One time when I was a little gitl, and we lived in Salt Lake City, I was asked to give a poem in Primary. I didn't know we were going to have visitors. When Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. Young came in, I became a little nervous, and when they called on me first, all I could think of was the ladies sitting at my back. I gave the first part of the poem, and forgot the rest of it. I was going to sit down when Sister Snow put her arms around me and said, 'Don't sit down, little girl, I am sure you know it. Just stand and think a minute." So I did, and recited the poem clear through. This advice helped me all through life to be able to stand and think a minute, as I have been a teacher in Mutual, Sunday School, and literature class leader and counselor in Relief Society. This is part of that poem I still remember: Open the door for the children, Tenderly gather them in— In from the highways and hedges, In from the places of sin. Some are so young and so helpless, Some are so hungry and cold. Open the door for the children And gather them into the fold. —Mrs. Minnie Champneys Nye Logan, Utah I just received The Relief Society Magazine for January and February, and I am certainly going to enjoy reading them. There is much in each Magazine that will help me im one way or another in my missionary work. —Clara Borgeson The Hague, Holland The Magazine is lovely. No one could deny that. The lessons are grand, the stories sweet and good and true; the sermons full of faith and good works. Even the statistics nearly burst out of the cover with pride. —Pearline I. Alley Laketown, Utah NEW and CHOICE in Church Literature Matthew Cowley Speaks W. This compilation of Apostle Cowley's outstanding addresses, sermons, and letters will inspire many to follow in his footsteps and to aspire more diligently toward eternal life and salvation. A wonderful book a marvelous tribute that will live forever $4.00 Ze. LARGE PRINT QUADRUPLE COMBINATION Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, Pearl of Great Price, and the Bible all in a compact family edition, beautifully bound in leather and gold stamped. Large, readable type for all readers. $27.50 3. MASTERPIECES OF LATTER-DAY SAINT LEADERS N. B. Lundwall Included in this book are: Formation of the Earth, by Orson Pratt; The Nearness of God, by B. H. Roberts; The Witch of Endor, by Charles W. Penrose; The Responsibility of Parents, by President Joseph F. Smith; Organized Intelligence, by John A. Widtsoe; and many other outstanding discourses and writings. $2.00 4. YOUR FAITH AND YOU Mark E. Petersen With rare insight and precise directness. Elder Petersen discusses the problems of modern living and the sought-after solutions to these problems in the vital strength and truths of Mormonism. Cellected from his stirring Deseret News editorials. $3.00 - "a: opiate Rv #, = UeCSe 4 7 l I ae - I | DESERET BOOK COMPANY I | 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah | | Gentlemen: | | Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order (| ) charge | | to my account in the amount of $20.00 eee ee cccceteenseeeceeeeeeeeee for the | following encircled books: | Ne once ccceec me cecceccssececseccecneeccsscscsessesucsucscasesscnensacsnssuenesnessenssasseseseeesoeeeceees | I PUAGRES crceceees sceseses cc ccteeseeasacsssssessnesccencccnnenssssene-ssssscccsesscccncascsnscaccescossesananecess: i Cl Zone State eee; Residents of Utah. Include 2% sales tax. 2¢ Paid PERMIT No. 690 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH | U. S. POSTAGE Today is your future "Teaching" can be fun even if the pupils are dolls, teddy bears, and toy clowns..:. And who learns more about the subject than the teacher? Your little girl (or boy) may or may not want to become a teacher... But whatever the choice, it's up to you, today, to decide how you can best provide funds for your children's education. You'll / c find your friendly Beneficial agent a real help in solving this has important problem. A Over!% billion dollars of life insurance in force. Insurance Company /s your tee ce David O. McKay, Pres. BEN ' AL} salt Lake City - Utah Lesson Prev e.*" 
