[Vol9 | October 1922 | Sequence: 12 | Category: Notes from Field | Title: Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman]

Notes from the Field Amy Brown Lyman Netherlands Mission. An interesting letter has been received from Lillian D. Lillywhite, supervisor of Relief Society work of the Netherlands mission. There are at present nine well organized societies in this mission with a total membership of one hundred and sixty-four, including forty-one officers. The society with the largest membership is located at Rotterdam. A group picture of this branch is printed herewith. The women of the Rel'ef Sociey in this mission all manifest a desire to care for the poor and minister to the suffering. The cost of food and other living expenses, together with the fact that there is considerable unemployment, has resulted in an unusual amount of want and distress. RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE ROTTERDAM BRANCH Mrs. Lillywhite reports that the mission is proud of the members of the organization. Nearly every member is a mother. The women are earnest, whole-hearted Relief Society workers. Their time is freely given to the Relief Society work and a great deal of good has been accomplished by them. All of the nine organizations hold their meetings weekly, and  three of the meetings are devoted to sewing and making articles of clothing. Several hundred such articles were made, and distributed last year. In all branches of the work there is an earnestness and faith that will make for the growth and success of the Relief Society work. Franklin Stake. Mrs. Carrie P. Goaslind, formerly of Preston, Idaho, has moved to Salt Lake City to make her home. Mrs. Goaslind was a counselor of the Franklin Stake Relief Society Board, having served in that capacity since the organization of the Franklin stake. Prior to this time she was a member of the Oneida Stake Board. Mrs. Goaslind has been particularly interested in social service work in the Relief Society, and since her arrival in Salt Lake City she has spent considerable time serving as a volunteer visitor for the welfare department at Relief Society headquarters. Alpine Stake, The summer work of the Relief Society in Alpine stake has been largely of a social nature. Social activities have been under the direction of the Sunshine Committee. Visits have been made to the homes of the sick, the elderly, and the indifferent, where interesting programs have been carried out. Last year over one thousand such visits were made in the stake. Each of the various ward Relief Societies is. Planning a special afternoon affair at which the elderly people will be the guests of honor. In most cases the festivities will be a lawn party, and the various parts of the program will be des'gned for the entertainment of the aged members of the ward. Sewing is another phase of the Relief Society summer work. Old clothes are being remiodeled and new articles are being made. These articles will be used in the fall and winter in the social service departments of the various wards. In order to increase the funds for rel'ef work, the various districts of Alpine stake are each planning a two or three day bazaar, to be held in the fall. British Mission. Mr. Andrew T. Jacobson, Leeds conference president, Bradford, England, has reported to the Relief Society headquarters that the mission has recently organized a Relief Society in each of the six branches of the conference. He further stated that the 528 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE work being done is of the usual high standard characteristic of the organizations throughout the Church. Teton Stake. The Teton stake, in making a report of its activities, explained that in spite of certain handicaps the Relief Society work is progress: ng and prospering. Some of the branches are in dryfarm districts, and meetings are organized for summer work. The Relief Society women respond willingly and generously to all calls made of them, and they manifest a great interest in all th activities of the Relief Society. The Teton'a ward of this stake has made the splendid record of one hundred percent Magazine subscribers. Kanab Stake. The officers of the Kanab stake Relief Society have reported that there has been a marked increase in attendance, and that there is manifest a gratifying interest and activity in Relief Society work in all of the wards. In a canvass that was made of the stake it was found that ninety percent of the stake and ward officers are observing the Word of Wisdom. Every ward in the stake paid one hundred percent stake dues and annual membership dues for the year 1922. IN MEMORIAM. In the death of Emma G. Woolley, widow, of the late Kanab stake president, Edw: n B. Woolley, the Church and community lost one of its most faithful and earnest workers. Mrs. Woolley served for several years as first counselor in the Kanab Stake Relief Society and in this capacity she was a devoted and untiring worker. During her husband's long service as president of the stake, Mrs. Woolley shared, willingly, his responsibilities and assisted him in every way possible in discharging his duties. Mrs. Woolley was born at Council Bluffs, Iowa, and was the daughter of Richard and Elizabeth Price Bentley. She was the mother of ten children, seven of whom survive her. She was for several years a resident of St. George, but her later years were spent in Kanab. A beautiful funeral service was held on May 14, which was Mothers' Day, and her many friends paid tribute to her sweet character, her humble spirit, and her unselfish life of service. Star Valley Stake. Each of the eleven wards of the Star Valley stake held a  ward Relief Society conference on June 11. The conference was held as a part of the regular sacrament meeting. Two stake officers visited each conference and assisted the local officers in carrying out an instructive program. Reports were made of the year's work, and the conferences did much to stimulate interest and activ: ty in the Relief Society work. The activity for the summer, in the wards of this stake, includes lessons in making genealogical records and histories, a study of the general conference notes which apppared in the Relief Society Magasine, a singing practice of Relief Society songs, business meetings, and one or more socials. Deseret Stake. Every ward in the stake has continued to hold Relief Society meetings during the summer months, although some of the wards are scattered over a large area of country, many members having to ride three miles to meeting. In many wards the meetings have been held at the homes of members and this has been a great factor in interesting many who have been inactive in the Relief Society. Throughout the stake the programs have been uniform. The first Tuesday has been testimony meeting, the second, work and business, and the others used as each organization desired. In some wards the outlined lessons which have been unavoidably missed were taken up, others have discussed the lives of our leaders and pioneers; and still others have discussed other subjects considered vital to the'r immediate needs. In all the associations, however, a number of socials and entertainments have been enjoyed. The three east wards, Oak City, Leamington, and Lynndyl, being so far from the other wards, joined in the stake social on Flag Day, June 14 About 340 took part in the outing. On August 15, the other eight wards held their social and outing in the Grove at the Sp Ilway. It was a lovely day, and over eight hundred members of the stake, counting the children, joined in the festivities. Lunch was served cafe'eria style during the noor hour, and ice cream was served in the af'ernoon. Some very interesting games and sports were provided, and the day was! Pleasantly spent. The Relief Socie'y of our stake, in cooperation with the Red Cross chapter here, has obtained the services of Miss Johnson, who is giving a course in home nursing. Fifteen classes are given each week in the stake and many mothers and daughters are availing themselves of this splendid opportunity to take up this important subject. About fifty members are enrolled in the class at Delta, and a similar number at Hinckley.  North Weber Stake. The three stake Relief Societies of Weber county held a tri-stake conference last winter. It was the first meeting at which the Relief Societies of the entire county met together since the division of the old Weber stake. A visitor from the General Board was present, and an inspiring and instructive program was carried out. The teachers' work in the stake has made considerable progress. The teachers use outlines, which they study beforehand and discuss with the families upon making the visit. Inasmuch as some of the wards are located in Nevada, it is not possible to visit them frequently.. A trip was made during the. Year to Nevada by stake president, Georgina G. Marriott. Because of eonomic conditions, it was found that the ward of McGill was greatly reduced in population, and the Ely branch was entirely dissolved. Each ward in the stake made a liberal contribution to the Weber Gymnasium Fund. 4 Samoan Mission. Throughout the Samoan mission the Relief Society annual day was fittingly observed. In some of the small branches, where they are conveniently grouped, conjoint gatherings were held. At Pasega, mission headquarters, #8) six branches of the island met, Bland after a very inspiring morning meeting at which a representative from each branch spoke, all adjourned | to a big Samoan house and participated in a great feast. It was a picturesque gather-..|ing. All present were seated H}on the mat floor about an '| immense circular table. All | sat cross-legged on the mats, and real Samoan hospitality was extended to everyone. Native dancing was one of the features of the afternoon program, On this occasion each sister paid her membership dues and a considerable sum was collected during the course of the day. At Sauniatu a splend! D meeting was held in the morning, a game of cricket was played in the afternoon, and a delightful pro- 'gram was rendered at night. In order to attend this meeting  # Mrs. Thurza A. Adams, president of the Relief Society of the Samoan mission, made a trip of thirty-five miles on horseback over a rough trail. At present the Relief Society in this mission is in an excellent condition. It is well officered and a spirit of harmony and devotion is manifested in every branch. The women are all eager to serve. A missionary was recently taken ill and the women of the Relief Society, upon hearing of this, made a difficult trip of forty miles, partly in row-boats, and partly on foot, in order to nurse and care for him. The accompany ng picture shows one woman who called on the elder, and the gifts they brought to him. This typifies the spirit of willing helpfulness that women of this remote country manifest at all times. I 4 Utah Stake. ' ~ The welfare department of the Utah Stake Relief Society recently had the unique exper'ence of making a report to the Massachusetts Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children. Miss Florence Jepperson, vocalist, who is well known and admired throughout the state, found herself in a difficult situation in Lynn, Mass., and the Relief Society played a part in the affair. Miss Jepperson, while studying music in Boston several years ago, had formed a close friendship with Mrs. Virtue Cook Gilchrist, who was a member of the Church, At one time during their long friendship, Miss Jepperson promised Mrs. Gilchrist, who had become a widow, that in case of her death, Miss Jepperson would take her three beautiful little girls. In January of th's year Miss Jepperson, upon hearing of the illness of her friend, hurried to Massachusetts, but arrived only in time to attend her friend's funeral, which had been delayed awaiting Miss Jepperson's arrival. When Miss Jepperson attempted to keep the promise made to the girls' mother, she found, much to her surprise, considerable onpos'tion, which culminated in a hearing before Judge Lathrop of the Probate court. The oppos'tion to giving the custody of children to Miss Jepperson was founded largely on the fact that she was a "Mormon." Reed Smoot, U. S. Senator, and Judge E. E. Corfman, of the State Supreme Court, and other influential friends, both "Mormon" and non-"Mormon," came to Miss Jepperson's aid. The report of the Utah Stake Relief Society, giving the full details of the standing of the Jepperson home in Provo, was presented at the hearing. A second hearing was ordered and Judge Prest, President of the Association for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, assisted in making the investi-  gation. The final result was the awarding of the guardianship papers to Miss Jepperson, and she has returned to Utah with her three attractive charges.