[Vol9 | October 1922 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Article | Title: Woman's Privilege Ruth Savage Hilton]

Woman's Privilege Ruth Savage Hilton "Have you called on the new-comers at the Jackson Place?" cheerily called Mrs. Jones, as she peered over the back fence of her neighbor's yard. "Yes," returned Mrs. Smith, rather abruptly. For years Mrs. Smith had prided herself on being the first to call on strangers. "T hear the lady is awfully nice," the cheery voice called again, "O, I don't know, just different. She has really seen things; been to school; and traveled all over the earth; never lived in a small town before." "Strange they would come here." "The lady likes the freedom of the country," Mrs. Smith returned knowingly. "Anyhow, she and I are going to be good friends, I trow." Mrs. Smith started for the house, but stopped on the back porch to add significantly, "I've already got an invitation to an afternoon luncheon at her home. That's a fine old place they have bought you know." This bit of gossip floated in to Emily through the open window of her study. "Just the thing I've been hoping for," she exclaimed, and sprang to her feet with all the glad enthusiasm of her twenty years. Throwing down her pencil and scattering papers all over the table, she ran from the house, round the corner, and halted at neighbor Smith's door. Emily smiled whimsically as she waited, "What'll she think?" was her mental question. As a rule Emily did not ask favors of Mrs. Smith, but that time was different from any other. So, after an hour of pleasant chatter, she came home beaming over the promise to be taken by Mrs. Smith to meet the new comer at the Jackson place. * oe "You see, it's this way: For years I've longed to travel abroad," confided Emily to Mrs. Smith, as they walked toward the Jackson place. "I'm sure I could write real stories—maybe books, if I only knew something beside this little town." "O, I see why you want to talk to Mrs. Thornton," Mrs. Smith gave her knowing smile and nodded. "You're right," returned the girl. However, she began to doubt her reasoning when they were comfortably seated and the woman of world-experience was play-  ing the role of beautifully simple country hostess. The big old house was full of the joy of common living. Noisy boys were heard in the hall. The twin girls with a host of playmates dotted the lawn. The mother bent tenderly over a dainty bassinet of white and blue, to smooth the frill of an infant son. "You see, I want a theme or plot for a story," put in Emily ~ when the conversation had drifted to strange scenes and customs. "You write, do you?" observed Mrs. Thornton. "Yes, some—well, it's this way; I've beers longing 'for years to travel so I would have something to write about. So, when I heard of your advantages I wondered if you wouldn't give me a pointer." "A what?" asked Mrs. Thornton puzzled. "O, I mean just some experience full of human interest." "Yes, I see. Well, you know folks are usually interested in life as it is, in people themselves." "Of course, so I've been thinking you might have had some wonderful experience out in the big world, that would give me a theme.'" Mrs. Thornton began rather slowly, "You want some experience of my own?" "Yes," Emily nodded, "something unusual which has helped to make you the lady that you are." "Perhaps," said Mrs. Thornton, "this is about the finest I have known. It has surely helped to make me what Iam. I am sure that among all the things I have known it stands well out in the foreground. But it's rather old-fashioned." Caressingly she reached for the infant in the bassinet of white and blue. Her eyes were full of tenderness. "Yes, old-fashioned, as old as mother Eve. You see, I was possessed with emotions of the average girl of twenty-three. Hence joy was mine when I learned what true love is; knew the glowing thrills of a honeymoon; and then felt the pulse of a new life which would shortly add its tiny strength to the race. Joy that millions have known. But it was vague and uncertain. Not a thought of the revelation which was soon to burst upon my soul, leaving an indelible imprint. "Tt came as a flash, during the calm, dark hours of a summer night. All nature seemed at rest, broken only by the fits of physical torture which was my portion. Torn by anguish until my whole soul cried out—what a price to pay for life—And then—TI lived years in those next few moments. Somehow it seemed, I knew that an immortal spirit, a child of God, was ready to be clothed in mortal clay; ready to take a tabernacle, which if rightly used would exalt it. Surely the veil between tis was very thin. So  close I was, it seemed that one could almost feel the clasping union of mortal and immortal. "Then—the wail of a new-born child—I listened with awed rapture. Truly eternity had touched, nay embraced, mortality. A bundle of glory was mine as I pressed the new. Life to my bosom. Having been so low, that I was almost given a glimpse into eternity; and then, returning to the world of normal folks bringing a real, live human soul to guide, to love, to care for. "Later on, as tiny feet have multiplied, and daily tasked have vexed, that flash of light comes back to bring me courage. Surely the sweetest, noblest task of all life's tasks is mine—to be the mother of the souls of men." eS The late afternoon was fast fading into twilight. Mrs. Thorn- - ton's guests reluctantly departed. At home, however, Emily forgot to write a story, but ran into the kitchen, where a trim little woman was busy. "Mother," she cried, as she threw her arms about her and Kissed the sweet, tired face, "Mother, have I ever told you how much I appreciate the life you gave me." A new and shining light came suddenly into the mother's eyes. She looked caressingly into the lustrous eyes of the woman before her, and slowly asked, "Have I ever told you what a privilege was mine to give that life to the world." TRUE CHARITY "T gave a beggar from my little store Of well-earned gold. He spent the shining ore And came again, and yet again, still cold And hungry, as before. "I gave a thought, and through that thought of mine He found himself, the man, supreme, divine! Fed, clothed and crowned with blessings manifold. And now he begs no more."