[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS. | Author: Unknown]

RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
		UINTAH STAKE. 
	The seventh annual and fifty-ninth quar-
terly conference of the Relief Society of
Uintah stake was held in the Stake Taber-
nacle July 15, 1913. President Nancy A.
Colton presiding, with Counselor Mary H.
Stringham in charge.
	Seated on the stand were all the officers
and members of the stake board, President
Ernest Eaton, Patriarch Nelson Merkley,
Elders John N. Davis, Thomas Bingham,
Ashley Bartlett, James Jones, and Bishop
Archie Richardson. President Emmeline B.
Wells and Elizabeth McCune of the General 
Board were the visitors from Salt Lake.
	After the opening exercises and rolll call
President Nancy A. Colton made an address
of welcome; she was pleased to see so many
present and more than pleased that we had
with us President Emmeline B. Wells. She
introduced President Wells, also Elizabeth
McCune, of the General Board.
	Mrs. Fannie E. Stewart gave a talk on
“Power of Personal Influence.”
	Mrs. Elizabeth McCune gave an interest-
ing talk of her pioneer experiences; said the
development of pioneer life is a priceless
boon to all of us, only remember this, keep
your ideals high and exercise freely the op-
portunities which come to pioneer women in
Relief Society callings. She advised the Re-
lief Society teachers in regard to their du-
ties.
	President Emmeline B. Wells was pleased
in visiting the far distant stake of Uintah;
spoke some of her travels in getting
to Vernal, but said “I have a desire to visit
all the stakes from Canada to Mexico;” she
related instances of her early life in the
Church; spoke of the Prophet Joseph Smith.
Speaking most feelingly of some of the noble
women of the past, gave quite a history of
the early work of the Relief Society. 
	Mrs. Mary H. Stringham thought we had
been blessed this morning by having the 
presence of President Wells and Sister Mc-
Cune; said the reason President Wells was
so young was that she has only had 21 birth-
days, although she is 85 years old.
	The conference continued in the after-
noon, with a very large attendance.
	President Emmeline B. Wells was the first
speaker. She thought in coming here, what
wonderful things men can do, and women,
too; said she would like to know how many
buildings the Relief Societies have helped
to build and the kind of buildings; she spoke
of the storing of grain; said President Brig-
ham Young gave this, as a mission to the
women of the Church. Spoke of marriage
for eternity, and advised parents to teach
their boys and girls the necessity of going
to the Temple to get married.
	President Don B. Colton had listened with
interest to what had been said; spoke of
brethren not taking as much interest in Re-
lief Society work as they should; referred to


[Column 1]
the good the Relief Society sisters were do-
ing in this stake in regard to taking care of
the sick, gave a strong testimony to the
Gospel of Jesus Christ.
	Mrs. Elizabeth McCune spoke of the Na-
tional Educational convention, which had
been held in Salt Lake City; thought much
good had been done by their meetings.
There is another item we want to speak
about. Are we doing our duty toward our
dead? There are temples built where we
can work for the salvation of the dead;
spoke of the genealogical work that was be-
ing accomplished through the Relief So-
ciety, and when you are ready for the work
an instructor will be sent to you.
	President Emmeline B. Wells spoke of the
time when she embraced the Gospel; spoke
of a miracle which happened to a young girl,
who had been lame for years, and had been
restored to health when she was baptized;
spoke of her personal acquaintance with the
Prophet Joseph Smith; related most inter-
esting experiences concerning the Prophets
Joseph Smith and Brigham Young, and the
early days of the Church.
	Elder Harley Morley spoke of when the
Relief Society was organized; said he knew
the Prophet Joseph Smith, having lived with
him for three years. He knew he was a
great and mighty man and accomplished a
great work.
	Mrs. Annie K. Bartlett, in behalf of the
stake board, thanked all for helping to make
this conference a success.
	After singing and benediction the confer-
ence adjourned.
	During the two sessions beautiful music
was rendered by the choir and Mr. Ashley
Bartlett, Miss Melvina Duke and a number
of little girls from Maeser ward, also a reci-
tation by Mary Merkley.
	An officers’ meeting was held for the pur-
pose of answering questions pertaining to
the Relief Society work.
		PHEBE A. MERKLEY, Secretary.

