[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | November | Issue: 11 | Title: THE WHITE ROSE. | Author: Unknown]

THE WHITE ROSE.
In the hush of the night I wandered
	Through my garden, I love so well,
In the lush of the grass I lingered,
	While the dew on the flowers fell.
Faint odors of violets, and blue bells,
	And delicate white-rose breath
Enshrined me, while in the starlight
	I mused on the mystery of death.
There are beautiful things in my garden,
	Some tender and young, and some old.
Graceful trees, sturdy shrubs,
	Bright flowers, red, purple and gold;
But of all the fair things around me
	My tenderest thoughts to disclose,
The sweetest, and dearest, believe me,
	Is the tall, frail and fragrant white rose.
A loved one that day had departed,
	A maiden most fair to behold
Had answered the call of the master,
	Had entered the heavenly fold.
The hearts that had known and loved her,
	Were stricken with grief and despair,
In the darkness of sorrow were wandering,
	Where asking the why? and the where?
With the shadows of darkness around me
	In the stillness of night’s repose,
A glorious star fell before me
	And lighted my path to the rose.
Then an angel appeared in my garden,
	And all was a luminous light,
For the veil from my eyelids was lifted,
	Held back were the curtains of night.
Twas a morning of glory celestial!
	And there in God’s garden sublime,
Were gathered the souls of the mortals
	I had known through my own life-time.
Then the voice of the angel addressed me,
	“Men, women and children behold!
And here, is the tender white maiden,
	Most precious of all in the fold.”
Men live out their own destination
	Complete, when called to their rest,
And children, not knowing temptation,
	Return with the just and the blest;
But the youth, and the maiden most precious,
	Something give of the sweetness of life,
Then are lost to the world and its sorrows,
	Its struggles, its pain, and its strife.
And there, in God’s heavenly garden,
	Sweet peace and love’s fragrance disclose!
Just as here, .’mong these beautiful flowers,
	Lives the tenderly treasured—white rose.
