September Fruits Sara Mills EVERY herb in the season thereof, and every fruit in the season thereof; all these to be used with prudence and thanksgiving." 'That is a part of the Word of Wisdom that sings to me in September. Fruit there is in abundance, weighing down the trees, lying flushed in the hot dust of the orchards, sending out sweet, heavy odors from the drying kilns, and filling the kitchens with a hot steam that is a promise of summer's goodness for winter's days. You may be too busy preparing for winter to think overmuch of the bounteous supply of food that is yours for today's use. School is starting. There is the blue haze of Indian summer in the air, bidding you to enjoy these last warm days. But the fruits of the orchard are waiting, offering you their best in taste and texture. I have chosen three recipes that are "tops." I use them when a well loved person is coming to break bread with us, or when I am overflowing with good will towards my family and feel that they deserve a little extra of September's opulence. PEACH COBBLER Pastry: 2% cups flour 72 cup vegetable shortening % cup milk 3% tsp. Baking powder % tsp. Salt. Sift the flour with the baking powder and salt. Chop in vegetable shortening until the mixture looks like coarse meal. Stir in milk quickly with a fork. Fold and carefully turn on a lightly floured board. Roll out into a thin sheet and cut into 8 five-inch squares. Fruit: 1 quart fresh peaches (measured after peeling and slicing) % cup sugar juice of % lemon % tsp. Cinnamon % tsp. Nutmeg Mix peaches with sugar, juice of lemon, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Place the peach mixture on the squares, one at a time, and pinch the corners together. Then set them in a baking pan. Syrup: 2 cups dark corn syrup % cup water juice of one lemon 3 tbsp. Butter or substitute Bring mixture to a boil and let simmer for ten minutes or so. Sugar can be used in place of the syrup if the latter is not available, but the syrup is best. Pour the syrup over the peach squares and bake in a 425  F. Oven for ten minutes. Reduce to 350 . F. It will take about half an hour longer to complete the baking. Apple Pie with CIDER Pastry (for two pies): 1/4 cup vegetable shortening 2'4 cups flour 1 tsp. Salt 1 egg 3. Tbsp. Milk Sift flour and salt. Divide the shortening, cutting in one half at a time. Instead of the usual ice water beat up the egg until it is frothy and add milk, if you need more Page 625 626 liquid. Toss the liquid into the flour mixture lightly and mix with a fork, then chill the pastry. Fruit: 1 1/2 quarts apples (measured after peeling, coring, and cutting) 1 cup apple cider 1 cup sugar 1/2 tbsp. Cornstarch 2 tbsp. Lemon juice Make this pie out of the September apples, juicy and tart, that are hanging high in your orchard. After peeling, quarter, then cut the quarters into threes and place in a stewing pan. Pour cider and sugar over the apples. You defeat the sweet tang of the cider if there is too much sugar. Let the apples boil gently until they barely look transparent and begin to soften, no longer. Just before removing from the stove, add cornstarch in lemon juice. Before the top crust is put on, dot the pie well with butter, and give it a shake of cinnamon. Bake in a 450  oven until the crust is lightly browned, then reduce to 350  F. You will find that the milk and egg crust browns quickly, and that the pie cooks more quickly. If I didn't have this pie freshly made on my kitchen table, I'd stop tight here to pare the apples. It's that good. You may substitute pineapple juice for cider. The master of this household says he prefers pineapple juice; I still hold to cider. I once used apricot nectar. It was delicious. Baked APPLES 6 large apples 3/ 4 cup brown sugar 3. Tbsp. Butter 2 1/2 cups boiling water 1/4 tsp. Cinnamon 1 tbsp. Cornstarch cup cold water Wash and pare apples. Place in a small, deep baking dish. Add brown sugar and butter, which has been mixed with boiling water. Sprinkle with cinnamon. Bake at 425  F. Until apples are tender. Pour off liquid into small pan. Make a paste of cornstarch and cold water. Add slowly to the liquid, and stir constantly until boiled. Pour over apples and serve warm. You will feel as if you are tasting baked apples for the first time. A graham cracker pie crust is never amiss. You can fill it with sliced, chilled, and sugared peaches, to which cinnamon and nutmeg have been added. Top it with whipped cream, and have a dessert fit for the season. Berries (and there are places where berries ripen in September) may be done the same way. Or they may be cooked, thickened, and poured into the crust. Peach parfait, my own christening, is made by slicing and sugaring luscious peaches and chilling them. Then in your tallest glasses, put layers of vanilla ice cream and layers of peaches, topping them with a swirl of peaches. To show that we haven't forgotten the herbs in the season thereof, take some of the leaves of the sweet basil that should be growing in your garden, and cut them into every tomato salad you make this month of September. How wonderful it is to live at this time, and how marvelous it is to dwell in a land where freedom abounds. If the people of this Nation will turn to the Lord and keep his commandments, they will enjoy happiness, and our Heavenly Father will continue to bless them.  President George Albert Smith