In Retrospect President Amy Brown Lyman CHAPTER V RELIEF SOCIETY WORK T the Relief Society conference in , I was appointed a member of the General Board of Relief Society to fill the vacancy on the General Board caused by the death of Annie Taylor Hyde. While I was a member of _ Relief Society in my own ward, my major Church work up to that time had been in the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, either as stake or local officer or class leader. My first love had been Primary work. I served this organization as ward secretary until I was grown up. When the letter came from the general secretary, Emmeline B. Wells, telling me of my appointment to the Relief Society General Board, I shed tears of anxiety because of the responsibility such an appointment involved. Some of my friends thought it would be a great mistake for me to accept this call, as Relief Society work, they said, was for "old women." It is true that at that time the average age of Relief Society women was above what it is today, and even above what it was with the eighteen charter members, the oldest of whom was forty-two years of age, and the youngest near twenty. I shall never forget my first attendance at Board meeting held in the office of the Woman's Exponent in the Templeton Building. As I timidly entered the room J faced what scemed to me the most imposing group of women I had ever seen at such close range. I was well acquainted with only a few of them. In my little date book, to which I now refer, I wrote the names of those present at that first meeting. At the head of the table sat Bathsheba W. Smith, the president. On her right was her second counselor, Ida S. Dusenberry, educator and Brigham Young University professor. On her left sat the general secretary, Emmeline B. Wells, and next was the treasurer, Clarissa S. Williams. Then there was Julina L. Smith, wife of the President of the Church; Emma S. Woodruff, wife of the former President; Rebecca N. Nibley, wife of the Presiding Bishop; Sarah Jenne Cannon, wife of a former first counselor in the First Presidency; Emily S. Richards, nationally known suffrage leader; Annie Wells Cannon, author; Alice Merrill Horne, artist; Elizabeth S. Wilcox, student of literature and fluent public speaker; Priscilla P. Jennings, widow of the wealthy former mayor of Salt Lake City, who, with the poise of a queen, had entertained in her elegant home Presidents of the United States, senators, and other men of national repute; Julia P. M. Farnsworth, Phoebe Y. Beatie, Carrie S. Thomas and Susan Grant experienced and able public speakers. My first contact with Relief Society had been in my childhood when my second mother, Elizabeth CrosPage 311 312 TEMPLETON BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY Niaaeings of the General Board of Relief Society held during the fall and early winter of 1909, and for some time previously, took place in the office of the Woman's Exponent in the Templeton Building, by courtesy of the editor, Emmeline B. Wells. By Brown, was ward president. We were all familiar with her goings and comings to visit and nurse the sick, to help those in need, to comfort those who mourned, and to supervise the gathering and storing of grain. Her work was thought to be very important by all of the members of the family almost more important than her home duties; and in her work she was supported, honored, and respected by her family. The children of the town used to climb up to the top of the Relief Society wheat bins in the old United Order Hall to look at the golden grain, which they understood had been collected in case of hard times or famine. Among the outstanding events in our little town, which were especially interesting to women and girls, were the visits of Eliza R. Snow and Zina D. H. Young, second and third general presidents of Relief Society, respectively, both of whom I well remember. When they held meetings in our community, all the women and girls who could possibly attend did so, as did many of the children. Sister Snow had been president of all women's work in the Church and was well known and beloved by M. I. A. Girls and Primary children, as well as by mature women. My closest contact with Sisters Snow and Young was when they came to our home on several occasions to bless and comfort my semiinvalid mother. On one occasion IN RETROSPECT we children were permitted in the room and were allowed to kneel in prayer with these sisters, and later to hear their fervent appeals for mother's recovery. They placed their hands upon her head and promised that through our united faith she would be spared to her family. This was an impressive spiritual experience for us, and the fulfillment of this promise, a testimony. Sister Snow, as I remember her, was dignified, reserved, and rather cold, so much so that one would hesitate to approach her or to assume any familiarity whatever. She was so powerful and able, however, that she impressed people, even children, with her superior intelligence, wisdom, vision, and leadership, and won their admiration and confidence. She was one of the most versatile and constructive workers the Church has produced, and was indeed one of the great women of her time. Zina D. H. Young, "Aunt Zina" as we knew her, was a gentle, kindly, honey-hearted woman, beloved for her graciousness and the warmth of her soul, for her generous and tender service to the sick, needy, unfortunate, and discouraged. Her ministrations to others covered her mature life span. No hand was ever held out to her but what succor was forthcoming. "THE meetings of the General Board that fall and early winter of 1909, took place in the office of the Woman's Exponent in the 'Templeton Building, where they had been held for some time previously, by courtesy of the editor, Emmeline B. Wells, who always found room in her home or office for Relief Society property and meetings. Much of the 313 discussion and planning at that time was with reference to the new Relief Society headquarters soon to be opened in the Bishop's Building, which was just completed. The women of the Church had for a number of years been collecting funds and making plans for a woman's building; and the Relief Society, Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association and Primary organizations had each raised a substantial fund for that purpose. The site now occupied by the Bishop's Building had been promised them for the proposed building. The First Presidency, however, later decided that the construction and upkeep of a building suitable for that important location, would be too much of a task for the women's organizations, and they, offered the women space in the proposed new Church building soon to be erected there, and to be known as the Bishop's Building. The women were at first greatly disappointed in not being able to proceed with their plans, but later offered to turn over their funds toward the Bishop's Building. The Relief Society contributed $8,- 500, the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association $7,000, and the Primary Association $5,500, making a total of $21,000. As the beautiful well-built structure was near completion, the General Boards were invited to go through the building on an inspection tour, at which time the future headquarters of each group were designated. The Relief Society was assigned the north side of the second floor, including the large Board room in the center. The six rooms on the south side of the floor were assigned 314 BISHOP'S BUILDING, SALT LAKE CITY, WHERE RELIEF SOCIETY HEADQUARTERS WERE ESTABLISHED IN 1909. THE BUILDING WAS DEDICATED JANUARY 27, 1910. To the Seventies and the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association Board, respectively. 'The third floor was turned over to the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association and Primary Association. The Relief Society Board set about at once to select and purchase furnishings for their offices, and in a few weeks these offices were beautifully furnished and ready for occupancy. On December 3, 1909, the attractive headquarters were opened for a regular Board meeting. I shall never forget that meeting and the earnest prayers which were offered that peace, harmony, and good will might always prevail within the walls. The Bishop's Building was dedi-: cated January 27, 1910. 'The dedicatory services were under the direction of the First Presidency, with the Presiding Bishop, C. W. Nibley, as master of ceremonies. 'The guests were the General Authorities of the Church and their wives, the General Boards and their partners, and other friends. The beautiful invitations which were issued by the First Presidency contained, besides the program, a picture of the building with photographs of the First Presidency, the president of the Quorum of the Twelve, the president of the First Council of Seventy, the Presiding Bishopric, and the presidents of the three women's organizations The IN RETROSPECT Relief Society, Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association and Primary Association, which organizations had contributed so liberally to the beautiful edifice. The entire building was brilliantly lighted and thrown open for inspection; and as the guests progressed through the rooms, they were received respectively by members of the organizations which were to occupy space in the building. We were very proud of the Relief Society rooms, which we felt were especially attractive with the new furnishings and beautiful floral pieces. Services were held in the large hall on the fourth floor, which was beautifully decorated for the occasion, and consisted of a banquet and program including the dedicatory prayer. The long tables filled the room and were surrounded by a happy throng. There were toasts, addresses, and music. The addresses were by President Joseph F. Smith; President Francis M. Lyman, representing the Twelve; Seymour B. Wells, the First Council of the Seventy; Bishop C. W. Nibley, the Presiding Bishopric; George D. Pyper, the Sunday School; President Heber J. Grant, the General Board of Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association; President Anthon H. Lund, the Religion Class; George H. Brimhall, the Church schools; President Bathsheba W. Smith, the General Board of Relief Society; President Martha H. Tingey, the Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association; President Louie B. Felt, the Primary Association. Sister Smith spoke of her long connection with the Church and with the Relief Society, referring especially to 315 the organization of the Society in Nauvoo, and her association with the Society from the first. She gave some interesting reminiscences of Nauvoo days. Musical numbers were given under the direction' ot J. J. McClellan. The chief feature of the evening was the impressive and comprehensive dedicatory prayer by President Joseph F. Smith, who expressed appreciation to our Heavenly Father for his many blessings and especially for the beautiful and substantial new structure. _ Brother Golden Kimball, who was in charge of the Seventies' offices, and Brother Edward H. Anderson, editor of the Era, in charge of those of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, were most interesting and agreeable neighbors. Brother Anderson was especially helpful to the Relief Society in the establishment of the in 1914, having been appointed by President Smith to assist the Magazine committee, and to act as special advisor to the committee, in which capacity he served until his death, February 1, 1928. He had rare ability as a journalist, and was a wise, well informed, though modest, man, and a faithful Latter-day Saint. In 1920, when the Priesthood organizations were given quarters in the new Church Administration Building, the entire second floor of the Bishop's Building was turned over to our organization. The additional space was greatly appreciated as it _allowed more room for our Magazine office, and made it possible to set up our Burial Clothes Department in the building. This latter department had been established in 1913 316 under the direction of President Joseph F. Smith, who felt that there was a great need in the Church for the service such a department could give. M* acquaintance and association with Bathsheba W. Smith,, the fourth general president of the Relief Society, covered but one year, as she passed away in 1910; but it was a profitable year to me, a young Relief Society worker. A charter member of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, and the youngest one of that group of eighteen, being only nineteen years old at the time, she had a background that was rare and unique. For sixtyeight years she had been a member of the Society. Her recitals of incidents of the early years of the organization in Nauvoo and of the important personalities of that period were most interesting and informative. Sister Smith was a large, fineappearing woman with dignity and charm, balance and poise. She was direct and positive in her speech, however, and fearless in her actions. In addition to her work in Relief Society, she was one of the most important temple workers of her day, having officiated in the Nauvoo, Logan, and Salt Lake Temples. In the latter, she presided over the women's work. With her passing in Septem-. Ber 1910, Emmeline B. Wells came into the presidency of Relief Society as its fifth general president. My first office on the General Board was that of assistant secretary (1911 to 1913). I later served fifteen years as general secretary (1913 to 1928), and eleven years as first counselor (1928 to 1939). In , I was appointed general president. As assistant secretary, I worked under Olive D. Christensen, the general secretary, a very efficient officer and a most cooperative and charming co-worker who, after two years' service, resigned her position on account of ill health. President Joseph F. Smith in outlining my work as general secretary stated, among other things, that it was his desire that all Church offices, including that of Relief Society, be thoroughly modernized and supplied with all necessary equipment for efficient work, and that the business affairs of the organization, including those of stakes and wards, be conducted according to the best business practices. At that time (1913), there were in our headquarters no typewriters and no filing cases, to say nothing of adding and mimeograph machines. There was no typist and no bookkeeper. Emmeline B. Wells, at this time general president (appointed in ), had continued to spend full time in the office, and under her direction and supervision, I took up secretarial work. Thus began a close and cherished association which covered a decade. We worked together day after day and month after month, with little extra clerical help at first. It was a rare privilege for a new and young officer to serve under the guidance of a veteran worker in the cause a woman of intelligence, experience, training, and wisdom, and a diplomat withal. I traveled with her to stake conferences, and in 1911 I accompanied her to my first meeting of the National Council of Women held in Chicago. "Aunt Em" was a constant inspiration, and she took great pains to pass on her almost limitless knowledge of Relief Society work, and of IN RETROSPECT Relief Society and Church history, which included many thrilling incidents and experiences. Born in 1828, her life had covered one of the most interesting periods in history as well as the whole life span of the Church. She was especially interested in the development of young women and constantly encouraged them to seek knowledge, to work for improvement, and to achieve goals. "Aunt Em" was small in stature, dainty in person, very attractive personally, and naturally drew people to her. While she was positive in her views and determined in what she thought was right, she was tender, affectionate, and responsive to love and attention. There was no wall of reserve about her. Above and beyond everything else was her love of the Gospel and her testimony of its truthfulness. I was always thrilled with her testimony which I have heard over and over again both in conferences and small meetings and also in the office as we sometimes sat alone during a pause in the day's routine, or near the close of the day as* twilight approached. Her love and appreciation of the Prophet Joseph Smith and her knowledge of. His greatness inspired me with greater love and appreciation for him. A dramatic incident in the life of Sister Wells occurred September 23, 1919, when the President of the United States, President Woodrow Wilson, accompanied by his wife, called upon her in her room at the hotel to thank her personally for the Relief Society wheat which had been turned over to the Government by the organization in the late spring of 1918. President Wilson was then on a tour of the United States speak- 317 ing in the interest of the League of Nations. Somehow the testimonies of faithful sisters in the Church have been especially impressive to me. In my Primary days, Mary Ann Winters, one of the officers of that Association, mother of Mrs. Heber J. Grant, and grandmother of our own Board member, Mary Grant Judd, used to bear a very fervent testimony. Asa child and youth she had lived in Nauvoo; and although only eleven years old at the time of the martyrdom, she remembered all the tragedy connected with it, and was at the meeting in the grove when the mantle of the Prophet fell upon Brigham Young. Being small, she stood on a bench to witness this miracle. She used to bear a fervent testimony concerning this incident, as did also "Aunt Em" Wells. The testimonies of other faithful sisters, close office associates, fellow Board members, and beloved friends, have also thrilled and inspired me and increased my faith and appreciation of the Gospel. HE Relief Society office in those days was a veritable bureau of information, not only for the women of the Church, but for women generally. It was the only women's headquarters of any kind in the city open daily with regular office hours. Tourists and other strangers who desired information about Utah women and their activities and early Church history were referred here by hotels, railroads, and sight-seeing concerns. With her knowledge of Church people and events and her excellent memory, Sister Wells was also constantly consulted by men as well as women, both in and out of the 318 Church, who were writing articles and papers on early Utah incidents and history. Many important friends from out of the State and Church crossed our threshold in those days. Of these I shall mention only a few: Madame Mountford, famous lecturer on the Orient, and Jerusalem in particular; Lady Aberdeen, of Great Britain, president of the International Council of Women, and her husband Lord Aberdeen;. May Wright Sewall, former president of the International Council of Women, former president of the National Council of Women of the United States, and one of the founders of these two organizations. Four other presidents of the Council, all close friends of Relief Society, who visited the office, are here listed in the order of their service: Dr. Kate Waller Barrett, who until her death was president of the Florence Crittenden Homes in America, established for the care and rotection of unmarried mothers and their babies; Mrs. Philip Morse Moore, who before coming into the presidency of the Council had for several terms been president of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, in which organization she had been one of the most prominent leaders; Dr. Valeria H. Parker, physician, staff worker, and director of field extension of the American Social Hygiene Association; Lena Madisen Phillips, lawyer, president of the Business and Professional Women of the United States, and later president of the International Business and Professional Women. - Among other distinguished visitors were: Jane Addams, famous so cial settlement worker and founder of Hull House; Carrie Chapman Catt, great suffrage leader, successor to Susan B. Anthony and one of the finest public speakers America has produced; Grace Abbott, Chief ot the Children's Bureau; Dr. Edward T. Devine and Gertrude Vaile, noted social workers; Rebecca West, English author; Charlotte Perkins Gillman, famous sociologist, brilliant Jecturer and author, niece of Henry Ward Beecher. Myra Kingman Miller, corresponding secretary of the National Council of Women, who had become acquainted with our women at conventions, after a visit to our office covering half a day, wrote the following tribute to Mormon women which was published in the Long Beach Mirror of June 22, 1916: These Mormon women have been a big factor in the building of this great city of Salt Lake, which was described in a previous chapter, for they are homemakers first of all. They are bright, lovable, intelligent women, above the average. They are loyal, conservative, alert, industrious, frugal, competent, and charitable. They are self-sacrificing, generous, happy, peaceful, contented; women of high standards of morals, of large intellects and deep thinkers, and they are giving to the world some of her most prominent business and professional men, some of her happiest homes and some of her most talented sons and daughters. God bless these women, true to convictions, through trials and tribulations, through joys and comforts. May their like increase. Dr. Albert E. Winship, of Boston, editor of the Journal of Education, eminent educator and lecturer, who was a close personal friend of our family, and often a guest in our home, always enjoyed a visit at the office. He was a real friend to the Mormon IN RETROSPECT people and was loud in his praise of their accomplishments. He first visited Utah in the days of Brigham Young whom he met personally, was familiar with the work of the Utah pioneers, and kept up his interest in the development of the state and Intermountain West. He was especially proud of Utah's education laws and program, which he thought were among the best in the country. He often remarked that in his travels about our great country he felt it to be a part of his mission to interpret to the people of one locality the fine work of those of another. He believed that prejudice was one of the great destructive forces and that it was born of ignorance, After a visit to our office in the 319 winter of 1917, he paid a glowing tribute to the Relief Society in a 1,000 word editorial published in his Journal of Education of March 1, 1917, under the title, "Women's Noble Work for Women." The introductory paragraph was as follows: One of the most brilliant achievements in women's work for women has had all too little recognition. We refer to the General Women's Relief Society with headquarters in Salt Lake City. ~ After describing the work and accomplishments of the organization, his closing words were: Such an achievement of women for women would ordinarily be heralded far and wide by a public agency of great efficiency, but so far as we know this is the first general recognition it has received.