NOTES FROM THE FIELD drive. It seems only natural that we are even more desirous of taking advantage of the finer things when they are made popular, and we feel: that the membership drive has been the means of accomplishing this in our stake. It has made more people Relief Society conscious, especially our young people. What a blessing, too, for one never attends these meetings without coming away feeling well repaid. "We have now completed our 'friendly chain.' The making of this golden chain has been a cumulative effort and joy for the past four years. The chain itself is symbolic of the friendships and services found in the Relief Society. It stands for the women both old and young who have caught the spirit of this wonderful organization. As each new member entered our ranks, a new golden link representing her was added to our chain. Today we have 703 links in our stake chain, and we are anticipating the joyous thought that great things can be accomplished in the future, since there is power and strength in numbers. "We had some very lovely plans for the centennial. We were disappointed, of course, in not being able to continue with them; but we appreciate the fact that it was up to us to fall in line, and we were happy to do just that. The wards very enthusiastically accepted the responsibility of celebrating March 17. "On March 17, a stake board member will visit each ward and pay special tribute to the ward presidency, their loyal coordinators, and all those who have assisted in any way in bringing this inspirational membership-building program to a successful climax. As a token of appre- 349 ciation for what has been accomplished, it will be the pleasure of the stake board to present each ward with the 'key of achievement.' This key is symbolic of unlocking the door to a richer, fuller, and more abundant life, a life filled with greater opportunities for womanhood. "We sincerely hope that the pictures of the eight general presidents on this key may serve as an inspiration to the wards in keeping their members, both old and new." The accompanying picture is of the membership key presented by this stake to the General Board. The keys given to each ward in Smithfield Stake were identical except that the inscription at the bottom bore the name of the ward and a statement that the key was in recognition of achievement in the membership campaign. Carbon Stake (Price, Utah) HIS stake, with Belle Johnson, president, and Estelle MclIntyre, membership coordinator, made outstanding gains in membership through the four-year campaign. The following report by Mrs. McIntyre was submitted early in March: "We launched the last year of our drive, 1941, with a 'Stop! Look! And Listen! Program. With it, we passed out to the wards their previous records and the accomplishments expected in the last year of the drive. Each month thereafter we assigned a 'Sell the Relief Society' program to one of the wards, and some exceptional and original ideas were brought into our union meetings. We lengthened the time of our union meetings one-half hour in order to give our wards the necessary time to put over something worth 350 MISSION WARD RELIEF SOCIETY, SAN FRANCISCO STAKE, Including the 56 New Members Admitted on the Day This Picture Was 'Taken in October, 1941. While. Thus, a deep interest among the officers was awakened, and they in turn spread their enthusiasm among the women of their wards. "All through the year, we have worked on a stake scrapbook which is developing into a very fine history and memento for the future Relief Society organizations of this stake. There is a section devoted to the stake board and one to each of our eighteen wards. Each section is divided into four parts; namely, title page, history, photographs, and miscellaneous. The miscellaneous section is made up of any outstanding activities featured by the stake or by a ward." During the four-year campaign, Relief Society membership in Carbon Stake increased by 553, or 79 percent over the 1937 membership of 701. At the end of the campaign there were 1,254 members who represented 79 percent of the families in the stake. The secretary, Irene | Perkins, reported that in seven wards the enrollment represented 100 percent or more of the Latter-day Saint families, as follows: Columbia, 102 percent; Green River, 123; Kenilworth, 104; Scofield, 135; Spring Glen, 127; Standardville, 100; and Sunnyside, 101 percent. San Francisco Stake (San Francisco, California) Crystal Young, president of Mission Ward Relief Society, reports that under the able leadership of Effie Boman, former president, the Mission Ward was the first in the stake to reach its membership quota. The accompanying picture shows the members of this ward Relief Society, and was taken at their first meeting of the 1941-42 season in October, when fifty-six new members were voted in with dues paid. 'This ward is very pleased with the response of the new members, most of whom are young mothers.