[Vol8 | December 1921 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Guide | Title: Social Service - Leadership in the Home]

LESSON IV Social Service. (Fourth Week in February) LEADERSHIP IN THE HOME In our previous lesson we observed two ways in which the home is regarded, first, as a preparatory school for training boys and girls for useful service in the community, the church, the 
state, and the nation; secondly, as an end in itself, a sort of ideal life, one for which we must make preparation, if our ideal is to be realized. According to this viewpoint, the schools and our religious organizations become means to the end of better home life. Preparation for home leadership is thus a preparation for real life, a life to which every normal man and woman should look forward. In this lesson, when we speak of home leadership, we mean such leadership as is expected of a husband and father, wife and mother. This, however, does not mean that other members of the family, such as a grown up son or daughter, may not contribute in certain ways and at different times, to home leadership. Very often a young man or young woman in the family possesses skill or information which the family is very much in need of and which parents may not possess. When such is the case, it is to the advantage of all that such responsibility of leadership should be placed upon them. WHAT HOME LEADERSHIP IMPLIES To be a leader in the home is a responsibility quite-as difficult as it is important. The demands upon such leadership, although numerous, may be classified under three headings, those necessary for life, those essential to health, and thirdly, those essential to moral and spiritual welfare. (1) The first demand is that of providing food, clothing and shelter for the family. The basic importance of this requirement cannot be over estimated; in fact, the very existence of the family depends upon the satisfying of this need. (2) The second class of demands is also significant, that of knowing how to care for the physical bodies, especially those of growing children. The child must be guarded and protected on every hand from accidents and diseases. And when sick he must be nursed back to health. The intelligence and skill required here is of a very high order. Of course, expert assistance may be employed to help the family meet the demand for health, but the extent to which doctors, nurses, and hospital services are employed will depend largely upon the income of the family. The average home can afford to employ health experts only when emergency requires it. Home _ leadership must, in general, embody health leadership. (3) The third duty which home leadership must perform, the moral and spiritual education of the family, is even more difficult than the second. This kind of service cannot be bought with money. There are no expert moral and spiritual physicians that we can employ to help us solve questions of this order. Father and mother must possess the intelligence and skill required to protect the home from vice and to promote wholesome moral and spiritual life within the circle. 
 EDUCATION FOR HOME LEADERSHIP God has endowed most parents with powers and capacities to meet, with a fair degree of success, the demands which are made of them. But these capacities may never come out and show themselves unless we make an effort to bring them forth. We must educate ourselves to think, we must school our feelings, we must train our impulses to wait until the more careful judgment gives command. Home leadership needs to cultivate exemplary habits. It needs to develop guiding principles, high ideals. But good habits are not formed, nor are ideals developed, without effort. Individual application, diligence, coupled with our natural endowments on the one hand, and the splendid religious and. Educational institutions on the other, should make it possible to develop among the Latter-day Saints as high a type of home leadership as the world has ever known. FACTORS IN EDUCATION FOR HOME LEADERSHIP We are not unappreciative of the great service the public schools and our religious organizations have rendered in educating young people for home life. But as parents we are becoming more fully aware of what home leadership means, and ever more conscious of our limitation in meeting the many demands that the home makes of us. We believe that the schools and the Church are capable of rendering even greater service in this respect, if only we will make proper use of them. We believe that young people who, within a few years are to take upon themselves the responsibilities of home leadership should be educated to sense its importance. They should be taught first of all to take a more serious attitude toward such subjects as marriage and parenthood. Sush an attitude of mind would follow very naturally if education were headed a little more in the direction of the home (or at least not away from it). Every step taken by the schools and other educational organizations in this direction should be encouraged by parents. Our ideal will be reached only when (1) both men and women understand the seriousness of the religious and social obligations which the marriage relation imposes: (2) when they have a knowledge of the art of home building, including habits of thrift, economy, and industry; (3) when they are taught the fundamental laws and principles of physical and mental health, and (4) lastly, and by no means least in importance—when young people are educated in the basic laws of moral and mental growth and the best method of home education which will bring this about. 'In the lessons which are to follow, these questions will be treated more in detail. QUESTIONS 1. How might the duties of home leadership be classified? 2. (a) Which of these duties call for special educational preparation? (b) Which can be met by good common sense? (c) Which of these obligations will money satisfy? (d) Which depend entirely upon the intelligent effort of the parents? 3. Why is the home a better place than a public institution for the moral and spiritual education of children? 4, What kind of education do you consider to be desirable for home leadership? 5. Describe (a) an ideal father, (b) an ideal mother. 6. In what way does our Church organization educate young people for the responsibilities of the home? 7. What are the high schools and colleges doing for the home? What more do you think they could do to assure good homes? 8. According to an educator of wide recognition, "eighteen out of one hundred college girls state bodily that they would rather be men than women," and more than "one-half of the school girls in these censuses choose male ideals, as if those of femininity are disintegrating." How do you account for this condition? TEACHERS' TOPIC (February) The Month of Patriotism