[WomansExponent | Vol41 | 1912 | September | Issue: 1 | Title: Some Old Love Letters | Author: Unknown]

	SOME OLD LOVE LETTERS.
	The romance of life helps one to bear its
burdens; matter of fact people to the con-
trary notwithstanding. And perhaps one
of the most interesting things that invaria-
bly lends charm to real life is a love letter,
whether it is a few words ungrammatically
written, or an epistle filled with the choicest
language; it matters not if the person by
whom the words were penned is capable of
pouring into the composition the true elo-
quence of the soul, it finds its counterpart
in the heart of the receiver, and is forever
cherished among the most valuable treas-
ures. I am aware of the old saying, it is
easy to put things on paper, but it is also
tolerably easy to discern whether the heart
is in it or not. There may be exceptions to
this rule as there are to all others, but many
a happy union has been consummated be-
cause of some outpouring of the human
heart on paper; and many a reconciliation
has been effected through a love letter
where a misunderstanding or a lover’s quar-
rel had existed. Some strange things have
happened too, worth relating for the amuse-
ment of a winter evening, for though we
speak of Spring as the lover’s season, and
there is not a month in all the year more
appropriate for weddings or when more
unions are consummated than “June the
month of roses and love,” yet the courting
has been done beforehand in the long winter
evenings and finished off possibly in the
lovely Spring time, with the perfume of
violets in the air and the sweet songs of the
wild birds in their ecstacy, nest building;
by the brink of some mossy brook or flow-
ing fountain, or under the apple boughs 
when the pink and white blossoms were
fluttering to the ground. But apropos of
old love letters we have a most enchanting
tale to tell.
	In the old-fashioned houses of the
last century there was generally a garret
and these places were the repository of
everything that the family wanted to put
out of sight, and occasionally some treasure
would be lost among the heaps of rubbish
carried up there, when the clearing up or
house cleanings were in progress.
	This story is a very old one, and has not
been put in a book or published to the world
before, so that although it is old it will
nevertheless be as good as new, for it has
been well-kept. The principal actors in the
pretty drama are dead long ago, but we do
not even at this late date feel justified in
giving their real names.
	A little girl prying about among the old
lumber in the garret at her grandmother’s
one day, hunting doll rags, found a bundle
of old letters tied with a very faded and
soiled yellow lute-string ribbon wound so
many times around it that she thought it
would make a sash for her dolly and pro-
ceeded forthwith to untie the knots, and
scatter the letters among the rubbish, never
dreaming that in so doing, she was divulg-
ing a secret or disclosing a treachery. But
so it proved.
	“Where in the world did you get that
ribbon?” said Aunt Dorothy one day to her
little grand niece who was playing with her
dolly in the drawing-room, and then such a
crowd of memories came rushing back as
she took the once pretty ribbon in her fin-
gers, fondling it, that little Helen suspected
she had done something naughty, but the
child was on the best of terms with Aunt

[Column 2]
Dorothy, and as if to make reparation said,
“I found it in the garret and washed it for
my new doll, it was tied in such hard knots
around a bundle of old papers with ink so
faded no one could ever read them.” “What
did you do with them, child ?” said Aunt
Dorothy, excitedly. “I threw them down
again in the corner with a whole lot of other
things.” “You didn’t tear them then nor
burn them up?” “O, no, why I thought
grandma wouldn’t like that; I only wanted
the pretty ribbon; such a nice pattern.”
“Very odd,” replied Aunt Dorothy, in an
absent way, and was soon slowly and
thoughtfully wending her way up the stair-
case, and then on again to the garret, talk-
ing to herself as she went; “I wonder what
letters could have been hid away up there
for all these years. It’s forty years or more
since I wore that ribbon, how happy I was
then and what a bright future I anticipated,
and then came those evil days, when a dark
shadow lurked in the horizon which sur-
rounded me. O, why have these remem-
brances come back; just at the sight of a
faded ribbon?” Sure enough, why do those
tender days that are gone come back and
haunt us, when we have groped blindly
through the darkness and sorrow and find
ourselves calmed by tile distance that divides
us from the dismal past!’ Thus musing,
Miss Dorothy Vose mounted the last step
and surveyed the garret searchingly; she
went through pile after pile of cast off cloth-
ing, etc., and just as the last rays of the
setting sun shed their pale yellow light in
through the open window, she discovered
some papers peeping from out a corner and
tremblingly reached out to take the shat-
tered workbox containing them, for such it
proved to be in her hands. She shook like
an aspen tree as she lifted it, and it fell in
fragments at her feet, and out from the
papers rolled down among the rubbish on
the floor a ring with a glowing setting.
For a moment she seemed stunned, a great
sob came swelling up in her throat, and her
mouth was dry and parched, and she sank
down, upon the floor as pathetically as if
she had been a beautiful young girl still in
her teens, instead of an old maid of half a
century.
	But no one would have guessed her age,
for she was still strikingly handsome and
exquisitely neat in her dress, and had that
sort of delicate way of adjusting everything
that we call stylish, the draping of her brown
silk dress lay about her in soft folds; and
with her eyes suffused with tears, she gazed
wonderingly upon the lost ring she had
found after all these long years. So many
times she had ransacked boxes, drawers and
closets, in possible and impossible places,
and now it had come to light too late, when
her hair was silvered o’er and her eyes faded
with weeping. An emerald ring, engraved
“D. V.” from “E. L.,” such a peculiar
shape, a rare beauty she had once thought,
and now what a train of recollections it
brought back, how well she remembered the
night, he had given it to her under the great
elm tiee, in the yard, and pledged his faith,
his honor, the devotion, of a life time, and
begged her to be his promised bride, and
with maiden blushes, and modest downcast
eyes more eloquent than words, she had
given him his silent answer. The few
months that followed the betrothal had been
full of sweetness and the tenderest associa-
tion lovers could enjoy whose sentiments
were so near akin. But in their case the

[Column 3]
old adage proved true, “The course of true
love never runs smooth.”
	But we must not leave Aunt Dorothy
shivering in the garret while we go over her
past life, and tell what befell her, and why
she was a lonely old maid in the home of
her childhood, where the third generation
was now growing up, instead of being a
happy grandmother like her sister-in-law
who was only a few years older. 
	Singular coincidences sometimes tran-
spire that night almost leads us to believe
in the fatuity of certain events acting upon
each other years had passed by since, any-
thing had happened to call up these tender
reminiscences in Aunt Dorothy’s past and
now just a faded old ribbon had awakened
a torrent of emotions, and a flood of events
came rushing onward.
	The shades of evening were falling and
Miss Vose gathered up the broken box and
scraps of paper in her black silk apron, and
fled down the stairs to her own room as
though all the ghosts of those haunted
memories were following her. Once in her
chamber with the door securely fastened,
she picked up piece by piece the broken
workbox where these papers had been hid-
den away. She knew the box well, it had
been a handsome one inlaid with pearl, but
now fallen apart, disclosing its contents.
But how came the ring in the possession
of the owner of the box; that was a mystery
she could never expect to unravel, not even
if she could make up her mind to read the
letters, which she hardly dared to think of
yet though they were in her keeping. She
took the faded fragments one by one and
laid them together, and the broken box and
put them in a drawer and turned the key as
if to shut them out of her sight, and away
from the temptation of reading them. Her
face was paler than usual, and her limbs
quivered as she descended to the dining-
room when supper was announced, but ap-
parently no one noticed anything unusual
in her face or manner except little Helen,
who had not forgotten how strangely her
aunt had questioned her about the yellow
ribbon, and when they were leaving the
table the child approached her saying, “Are
you ill, Aunt Dorothy?” “No child, not ill,
only thinking, thinking of the long ago,
when I wore the faded yellow ribbon.”
“Were you a little girl then like me?” in-
quired the little grand-niece. “O, no, I was
a young lady with great expectations ” said
Aunt Dorothy with a strong emphasis on
the two last words. Little Helen looked
puzzled, but with childish persistency she
pursued her inquiries: “Was that when your
picture was painted that hangs in grandpa’s
room over his desk?” “My picture was
painted so long ago I really don’t know. I
never look at it.” “It is not like your mam-
ma’s, Aunt Dorothy, is it?” “Yes, a little.”
“I believe you had the yellow ribbon on,
that’s what made you take so much notice of
it when you saw it today.” Miss Vose was
glad the child was satisfied and soon after
retired for the night; she could not, how-
ever, yet make up her mind to read the
letters, a sort of dread of discovering some
disagreeable secret seemed to forbid the
perusal. She tried in vain to sleep, the
wretched past came so vividly to mind, that
the gray dawn of morning found her still
tossing upon her pillows, her head aching
and eyelids heavy with weeping. Finally,
she fell asleep; the bright sunshine stream-
ing into her room awoke her, and she


[Column 1]
started up suddenly but lay down for a
moment or two and thought over again the
dream from which she had been aroused.
She had certainly had a remarkable dream.
	At the breakfast table the family noticed
her pale face and languid manner and anx-
iously inquired what the matter was, for
they all dearly loved Aunt Dorothy; she
replied perhaps the peculiar dream she had
that morning was the cause, and her brother
and his daughter joined in the request that
she should tell the dream.
	And she related it as follows: “I dreamed
a stranger came to the house and told us of
some golden plates, that had been shown by
an angel to a young man, who had handled
them and had seen the characters engraved
upon them in a language not known to him,
but afterwards had translated them by the
inspiration of the Holy Ghost, and the trans-
lation had been published in a book; and he
had the book with him and showed it to us,
and then the scene changed and we were in
the woods about a mile from here where
the river is deep between those big rocks,
and the same stranger stood in the water
and baptized us all, and I shivered with
cold and woke with the sun shining into
my room.”
	“Dorothy,” said her brother, addressing
her, “did you know the man who came
bearing this Gospel message?” Dorothy
replied rather reluctantly, “I think I did, it
was one we knew intimately in days gone
by.” Mr. Vose knew very well what his
sister meant when she spoke thus, for they
never had mentioned his name for years,
even to each other. “I cannot think why I
should dream of him after all these long
years, but it was a singular dream, don’t
you think so?” “Very strange, but then
you must not think of it, you look quite ill
and sad, and if you brood over such hal-
lucinations and night visions, you will be
getting ‘the blues’ in earnest.”
	Dorothy did not tell her brother how she
had found the missing ring and the letters
the day before, reason enough why she
should dream of her old lover, but during
the day the dream and the reality both
troubled her, and she resolved to put an end
to her imaginary fears by going over the
old letters to see why they had been left
behind, when those whom she was sure they
most concerned had fled like fugitives and
had never returned.
	What was that lady’s amazement when
she put on her spectacles and looked at the
papers to find one of her own letters, ad-
dressed to Miss Dorothy Vose, Shutesbury,
Mass. It was sealed with a pink wafer and
on it was the initial “L.” She paused in a
tremor of excitement. Why had this letter
lain there all these years hidden away from
her, and she unknowing of its ever having
been written. She could not open it now,
it seemed too much joy—and yet she knew
not what it contained, but it was from Ed-
ward, her lover—O, so long ago—and yet
she could never hear his name, without her
heart beating more rapidly and her face
betraying the emotion felt within.
	She took up the fragments of paper one
by one, and found some in his handwriting
addressed to Miss Mary Stacy, her cousin
and rival, she could not and would not read
them, she fancied she knew the purport of
their contents. Her own letter she kissed
again and again, and tried to summon
courage to read it, she had no need to break
the pretty seal, for the corners were worn

[Column 2]
and it was easy to open the folds, for those
were not the days of envelopes, remember;
she turned the letter over and over, until a
curl of pretty auburn hair fell from it, and
she could no longer resist the desire to see
what he had written in the long ago.
	The auburn curl was more than the em-
erald ring, for it was part of himself; he
might be dead, she knew not; but this pretty
curl was something she could keep; how
vexed she had felt when Helen found the
ribbon, but now how glad, it had led to the
unfolding of a mystery, the lost ring, and
the auburn curl, two treasures she would
cherish while life lasted; the hatred and
jealousy of her cousin were gone now,
though the sorrow had never left her heart,
but she had long ago forgiven them both,
and would have been glad to know if they
were still living, for love outlives envy,
jealousy and rivalry, it is purer, and better,
and more enduring.
	And the letter, methinks I hear you say;
it was hours before dear Aunt Dorothy had
the courage to open its folds. It was like a
message from an unknown region, out of
the beautiful past. At last she took up the
scraps and put them together, for as she
tried to open it the pieces fell apart—and
her heart almost stood still while she gazed
upon the words—“Miss Dorothy Vose once
my affianced wife:” the letter was dated
Boston, Mass., Jan., 1805, and in it he
poured out in burning words his love, his
disappointment, reproaching her for incon-
stancy and entreating her to accept a lock
of his hair, that in some lonely hour when
she had forgotten his devotion she might be
reminded of him; the ring he had given her
he asked her to keep but never to wear it
again, as it had been a pledge of mutual
love and constancy as well as of their be-
trothal.
	In conclusion he said: “I have long been
aware that your cousin Mary loved me, and
when she returns to Boston, if I hear no
more from you, I shall ask her hand in mar-
riage. If I cannot win the heart of her
whom I have chosen out of all the world,
I will devote myself to making another
happy, who loves me with unutterable ten-
derness. Farewell! and if we never meet
again remember that you have driven me
from you with your pride and hauteur.”
	The words were cruel and hastily penned
no doubt, but poor Dorothy never had the
opportunity to reply to them nor had she
even known that Edward deigned to make
any explanation of his singular conduct.
	It was true that Ma[-]y loved him, she had
never disguised her feelings in her cousin’s
presence, though she was her guest and
aware of the engagement. Dorothy saw
her lover d[---] away from her, and her
modesty and r[---]cence kept her from any
demonstration of her suffering. Edward
attributed it to coldness and indifference.
Mary was well versed in the art of coquet-
ry, and it was an easy matter to win her
country cousin’s lover; her heart was in the
matter, too, for though she had gone
through two or three gay seasons, since she
became of age, no one had ever interested
her like Edward Laselle.
	He was indeed a brilliant young man,
with bright prospects in store and it was not
strange that she should love him, but he
was blind not to see that behind the reserve
of Miss Dorothy there was a depth of senti-
ment that her cousin Mary was incapable of
feeling; she was a gay butterfly of fashion,

[Column 3]
fond of dancing and society, while her
country cousin was staid and womanly, fond
of home-life and ready to make sacrifices
for the happiness of others instead of seek-
ing her own.
	But we will not go back into the details
of the occurrences that had left Miss Doro-
thy alone in the old home, there is no need,
for in a short time after the finding of the
letter and the ring, her dream came to pass
literally.
	One Sabbath evening in mid-winter the
family were seated round the fire talking
over the sermon they had heard that day,
and Aunt Dorothy expressed some dissatis-
faction as to the genuineness of the preach-
er: “It did not come from his heart,” she
argued, and was therefore ineffective; “what
would I give to hear the voice of a true
preacher of righteousness?” added the lady,
and she continued, “hear the Scriptures ex-
pounded as I understand them; I am weary
of the tone and manner of our orthodox
ministers, it has grown monotonous to me.”
“Dorothy,” said her brother, who was the
only one who ever dared to disagree with
the lady, “don’t you think you are growing
very extreme in your ideas? Is there any-
thing that comes up to your standard of ex-
cellence? Aren’t you looking for a miracle?
Remember these are not the days of the
Savior and his Apostles, though we do pro-
fess to be his followers.”
	“Yes, but we’ve all gone astray, priests
and people, and for me I am longing for
something stronger to lean upon than these
fragmentary discourses that have no soul in
them; there is nothing Christ-like about
them,” replied his sister.
	How many in this country and across the
sea in other lands were influenced about that
period, and since, by the spirit of the times;
a forerunner of what was about to transpire!
	That very evening after the conversation
here related and other remarks upon the
same subject, the great old-fashioned
knocker on the front door made a clanging
sound echoing through the house, and when
the door was opened two strangers in heavy
overcoats and frosty beards announcing
themselves as missionaries asked for a
night’s lodging.
	They were not kept out in the cold air
many seconds, for this was a hospitable
house and being a little distance from the
town, travelers often stopped for dinner or
over night. When the gentlemen were
ushered into the warm sittingroom, they
were kindly greeted by the master and mis-
tress as well as the younger members of the
household and Mr. Vose inquired if they
had taken supper. Something in the voice
of the elder man sounded familiar to the
host, and he said: “Are you from a dis-
tance? You seem like a Western man, but,”
and he directed his glance to the first
speaker, “your accent is decidedly Eastern.”
Laselle, for it was he, could no longer con-
ceal his identity, no matter what sort of re-
ception he might receive; he had come pur-
posely, though thinking after so many
years he might not be recognized. He re-
plied to Mr. Vose that he was from the
West, but formerly resided in Boston; that
in days gone by he had been "quite a reg-
ular visitor in this very house.”
	“And you come here now for shelter and
as a missionary preaching the word of the
Lord, after the deception [-]ou practiced, be-
traying the confidence of my sister,”—Be-
fore he could finish the sentence Dorothy


[Column 1]
Vose had risen to her feet and with the same
complacent dignity that had characterized
her throughout her whole life, she inter-
posed, “My dear brother, these men are our
guests for tonight, do not expose our family
affairs to them, nor here before these young
people. Let us speak soberly together and
apart if needs be.” Edward Laselle looked
like one amazed; he had also risen to his
feet when Mr. Vose accosted him in that
recriminating tone, in fact he had expected
a scene of some sort, though until he entered
the house that evening he knew not if Dor-
othy was living or dead, nor whether the
place was in possession of any he had
formerly been acquainted with; but he had
been sent out into the New England States
to preach the Gospel and his footsteps had
led him there.
	The explanations that followed that night
were satisfactory as far as was now possi-
ble. Alone in the old familiar parlor where
they had sat many an evening in “the long
ago,” though somewhat modernized now,
Edward Laselle and Dorothy Vose, with
her brother, talked over the events of the
past so closely interwoven with their lives.
She explained to him how only a few days
before she had found the lost ring, then
the unopened letter, though she did not
mention the auburn curl; Edward betrayed
much more emotion than she did, and Mr.
Vose was perhaps quite as much astonished
as either. Mr. Laselle did not offer any
solution of the unexplained mystery, not
did he ask if Miss Vose was still single, he
seemed fearful of venturing upon untried
ground; but Dorothy, who had seen him in
a dream, inquired what his mission was,
and what book he had under his arm when
he came into the room. Thus a conversa-
tion began that lasted for hours and was
renewed again in the early morning.
	When Aunt Dorothy retired for the night
she had much to reflect upon that was new
to her. It was the beginning of the fulfill-
ment of her dream; she was impressed with
the testimony borne to her by the “Mor-
mon” Elder and so was her brother; they
believed the truth as soon as it was made
known to them. How wonderful it all
seemed! Had Mr. Laselle arrived at the
house previous to the discovery of the letter
he would have been turned away without a
hearing, but the finding of the ring and the
letter had so softened the heart of Miss
Dorothy, that she was willing to bury all
old grievances and make him welcome. It
was not long before all the household were
ready for baptism and as Aunt Dorothy
dreamed so it came to pass, that the ice was
cut up in the woods between the big rocks
and there on a peaceful Sabbath morning
one week from the date of their arrival the
whole Vose family were baptized by Ed-
ward Laselle, the “Mormon” Elder. The
Elders had remained in that vicinity during
the week preaching every evening and ex-
pounding the doctrines of the Church as
opportunities offered. There were several
others besides the Vose family that received
baptism, and ere long a branch of the
Church was organized.
	Before Edward Laselle left the neighbor-
hood he sought an interview with Miss Dor-
othy Vose which she granted him. He
learned when she was baptized that she was
still only plain Miss Dorothy Vose, and he
was desirous naturally of learning more,
and yet he felt he had no claim upon her
confidence. The interview he sought was

[Column 2]
cheerfully granted him in the old parlor,
and there he told the story of his life.
	Not obtaining any reply to his letter and
confidently believing her to be too proud to
relent, or perchance in love with another, he
had asked Mary Stacy to be his wife and
she had consented without hesitation or re-
serve. Almost immediately after their
marriage they had taken “the Western
fever” and had gone out to Ohio.
	There at an early period after the Church
was established in Kirtland he had heard
the Gospel and embraced it, and ever since
that time he had been a firm believer and
advocate of its principles. When he was
called to go out as a missionary his appoint-
ment was to the New England States, and
his inclination had led him to visit the
scenes of his youth.
	Mary his wife had been dead a number
of years, his daughters had kept house for
him, but they were all married now and he
was quite alone.
	And so in the same old parlor Edward
and Dorothy forgave each other, “kissed
and made up;” we will leave the rest to the
readers’ imagination and only tell them
that this time they married, and Dorothy
consoled herself with the thought that had
it not been for the misunderstanding be-
tween them, Edward would probably not
have been a “Mormon,” nor would she
have had the privilege of hearing the glad
tidings. And if she had not found the old
love letters, she would have allowed her
brother to send him away that Sabbath
evening as he fully intended to do. There
might be another story written on their mar-
ried life and what happened, but we only
add, that the Vose family gathered with the
Saints along with many others from that
vicinity.					E. B. W.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


It is utterly impossible to express, in
words, the deep regret we feel in not being
able at this time to bring out a woman’s
magazine suited to the needs and condi-
tions of the women of the Relief Society,
which is the most representative organiza-
tion of its kind in the world. We most
cordially invite the members of this Soci-
ety, and more particularly the younger
women, to contribute articles to the paper
on such subjects as are suited to the young
mothers, also poems and other literary mat-
ter namely, short stories, etc. The lives
and experiences of Mormon women are re-
plete with incidents for story-telling that
would interest all those who delight in ver-
satile reading.
					THE EDITOR.


