Notes From the Field Julia A. F, Lund?General Secretary Northcentral States Mission. A REPORT of most successful activity in the Relief Society of the Northcentral States Mission comes from the President, Sister Elfie S. Richards. During the past season the sisters have been most active in their Magazine campaign, in the Church Security work, and in carrying through the educational program of the Relief Society. The following explanation of the Relief Society colors, blue and gold, comes from the pen of Sister Richards: "Our Relief Society colors?Blue and Gold?what priceless things they stand for. Gold?for wheat that women gathered and stored for 42 years. Gold?for the hearts of the women all over the church who serve so unselfishly. Gold?for the golden thread of testimony that makes all things possible. Gold?the distinction of royalty? the mark of intrinsic value of every department of our work to every active member. Gold?the legal tender of service MRS. ELEANOR SEEGMILLER AND HER SEVEN DAUGHTERS NOTES FROM THE FIELD THESE TEACHERS WEATHER THE STORM that makes alive our motto: "Charity never Faileth." Blue?for the truth of the Gospel that turned the key for women. Blue?for the loyalty of every member who has the true spirit of Relief Society work. Blue?like the canopy of heaven whose achievements cover 95 years of progress. Blue?for bluebirds of happiness in homes whose ideals are the Gospel standards. Blue?the forget-me-not that brings the 'human touch' to the needy, sick, sad and lonely. Blue?for our trust in our Heavenly Father's care. St. George Stake. THE Spring of the year is Daughters' Day in Relief Society. This is a most delightful observance and quite true to the spirit of Relief Society work. The picture on the opposite page from the St. George Stake is a beautiful example of what Daughters' Day may mean in Relief Society. Sister Eleanor J. Seegmiller, for fourteen years Stake Secretary of the Relief Society, is the proud mother of seven lovely daughters, all active in Relief Society or other auxiliary work in the Church. We congratulate Sister Seegmiller on this beautiful demonstration of Motherhood. Franklin Stake. SPEAKING of Visiting Teachers, we are reminded again of one of the most unique and beautiful customs in Relief Society. Reports come from many parts of our widely separated groups telling of the devotion of the Visiting Teachers and the lovely service they render. The above picture is an eloquent testimonial of all that is fine in this service. It was taken during the recent Spring, when the sisters were visiting their districts. To quote from the description accompanying the photograph: "These teachers weather the storms. No blizzards, snow drifts nor rain stop them from making their visits each month. In Summer they generally walk through their district, and it covers a distance of more than two and a half miles. This is often quite as great a test of endurance as the Winter storms when one considers the heat and dust. In 1936 these two sisters had 100% record for visiting teachers." We congratulate this Stake and Ward in having Sister Zepha B. Peterson and Venus W. Skinner. 'They are surely angels of mercy bringing good cheer to the homes they visit." Maricopa Stake THE picture below is a group of members of the Papago Ward Relief Society in the Maricopa Stake. A very interesting chapter on Relief Society work in relation to this group may be written. Through the efforts of the Stake President, Sister Shupe, and Sister RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Hicks of the Stake Board, the women have participated most enthusiastically. Their handwork is beautiful, and is, to a great extent the preservation of their native arts. They have also developed a fine group of Singing Mothers. The lesson work is presented, and many of the sisters take a keen interest in this. A library has been organized and many things which look for fuller development are in the offing this year. Garfield Stake THE Garfield Stake reports a very successful year in Relief Society work. The program is drawn for a whole year's work with those things which have the greatest significance in the different months considered. In September, clothing for children is considered and a discussion offered on hygienic clothing and how the general health and posture of children may be influenced by the type of fabrics and clothes which they wear. October, inexpensive art work that has for its purpose home beautification and making the best use of that available. November, PAPAGO WARD RELIEF SOCIETY NOTES FROM THE FIELD 391 best toys and their selection for the children of all ages. December, suitable candies and cookies for children, and the making of proper Christmas baskets for the shut-ins and old people. January, winter vegetable preparation, and a study of the types of balanced diets. February, rug making, with attention to proper color combinations and different kinds of rugs, braided, crocheted, hooked, etc. March, the cleaning and proper storing away of winter clothing to prevent moths, etc. April, a general clean-up day in Relief Society and Church buildings. June, simple draperies and kitchen curtains, suitable styles and fabrics in relation to colors, etc. July, entertaining children through summer outings, etc. August, the exchange of patterns and unusual recipes for making the less known articles of household consumption. These activities were climaxed by a fine display held at Conference. French Mission AN interesting account of how the Relief Society work is progressing in the French Mission comes from the President, Sister Hannah Ursenbach. With the exception of one branch, the organization is conducted by local sisters, who have a very progressive outlook, and seem to grasp the meaning of Relief Society work and carry it on very energetically. The printed copies of the lessons have been received, and the courses are followed just as nearly as possible. In some of the districts Union Meetings are held each month, and a representative from each Relief Society in the district is in attendance. The lesson work is given by one of the sisters, who presents it in a very intelligent and interesting manner. The sisters of the Mission are very grateful for the opportunities offered them, and for the materials which are sent to aid them in their regular courses.