Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon JUNE?Attar of roses, songs of birds, cloudless skies Velvet touch of golden butterflies Messengers of heaven? Is this earth or is it Eden? THE Golden Rule Foundation presume each year to designate the outstanding mother of America. Last year California claimed the "Queen Mother;" this year the state of Nebraska. According to the rating system of the Foundation, estimable as these two mothers are, there are millions of American mothers with equal qualifications. Every man will tell you 'There never was a mother like mine." HELEN KELLER is touring the Orient, giving lectures and introducing a newly developed "talking book" to Japan's 200,000 blind. As she embarked at Yokohama a culprit stole her purse. In returning the loss the embarrassing incident afforded the ultra polite Japanese an opportunity for apologies, in which art they are past grand masters. PRINCESS Elizabeth of England, recently celebrated her eleventh birthday. Perhaps no living child receives such care. Her education and training is a reminder of that of her great, great-grandmother, Victoria, while though further removed from the crown. There was always the possibility of succession in mind. MRS. AMY BROWN LYMAN and Alice Louise Reynolds were the two women, among ten alumni members of the Brigham Young University signally honored for distinguished service this year. AMY JOHNSON, noted aviatrix, is studying the Weem's system of celestial navigation, at Annapolis preparatory to entering the New York-Paris derby in August, commemorating the tenth anniversary of the Lindbergh flight. HELENE MAYER of California has won for the third time the U. S. Women's fencing championship. PHILIPPINE women have won by popular vote their suffrage. MARY TEASDEL, artist, died last April. In the city library at Smithfield, Utah, there is a choice collection of her paintings which like a memorial will ever be a reminder of the unusual talent of this gifted daughter of the pioneers. DR. ROSALIE S. NORTON in her interesting auto-biography gives credit to American women, physicians and mothers for leading the world in public health, sanitation, and a sane fight against disease. MARGARET MITCHELL'S "Gone With The Wind," was awarded the Pulitzer prize for the best novel of 1936. No one was surprised but the author, for seldom, if ever, has a book had such a sale. JOAN HASLIP has written "Parnell," one of the outstanding biographies of the year. MRS. KATHERINE PYPER PRESTON, and Mrs. Emma Jensen, two notable Utah women died this spring. Both prominent in church and club work.