D.: Little Moments of Eternity WHAT SHALL WE DO WITH THEM? HOPE-CHESTS Take Time For Preparation By Lella Marler Hoggan "Happiness is the perfume of the rose of love."?Dr. Frank Crane. THE first romance, according to the Holy Record, began in Eden when the Creator gave Adam the woman he was to love and cherish, the woman who was to become the mother of the human race. When Adam and Eve walked out of the sheltering security of Eden, they went hand in hand into a new world of trials and obligations. Their great loss did not dissolve the holy relationship that held them together. Humanity, following in their footsteps, has made a beaten path that is destined to go on forever. It is the oldest path in all the world, the most luring and altogether the most romantic of all of the roads of destiny. It is a sacred and a beautiful undertaking when a man and a woman 380 join hands and begin the journey down this old, old road. All along the way they will find tasks and responsibilities and sometimes disappointment and sorrow; and it will require strength and courage and great faith to complete the journey successfully. But there will be sunshine as well as shadow all the way, because you must remember, it is a path of romance?and paths of romance are always filled with lovely surprises and high adventure. After all the years, marriage is still one of the institutions for which there is no legitimate substitute. Around it time has woven poetic beauty and romantic dreams that make it more hallowed than any other experience. WHILE the little girl is still crooning lullabies to her dolls, she begins to build the hopes that will eventually shape her life. As she grows older the dream becomes more vivid and colorful, until it finally materializes into a reality. She finishes dainty bits of linen and selects small household treasures to be stored away in her hope-chest with reverent anticipation of the greatest event of her life. What a wealth of lovely traditions cluster round about the sacred drama! What tender sentiment and prayerful planning should enter into her happy preparations! The beautiful creations that go into the hope-chest are only a meager part of the wealth that she is stowing away. The richer dowry is the treasure of heart and mind and soul that is daily becoming a part of her possessions. And while she is garnering these priceless gifts, somewhere, a companion is making happy plans of the home he will someday build for the woman of his dreams. Into that little House of Joy must go all of his idealism, all of his high hopes, all RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of his glad wholesouled service. And out of her precious hope-chest must come all of the beauty, and the perfume, and the refined loveliness of life, with which to furnish the creation of their hearts. THE building of a little House of Happiness is a solemn adventure for a man and a woman to undertake. They want to make sure that it rests upon a solid foundation of enduring sentiment and Divine approval, and that only genuine, wholesome materials shall be used in its construction. One can scarcely hope that a house of shoddy materials thrown together hurriedly will last through eternity. To make it a work of enduring art requires much time and prayerful effort. It must be the best that earnest hands and hearts can provide, a place of peace and joy and security, a hallowed, permanent institution. For who can say what little feet may patter over the sunny floors, and what songs and laughter may echo from the cheery hearth? Who can know how long a line of descendants may march through the halls of this little House of Joy? Or what illustrious characters may be sheltered under its humble roof? Is it not possible that a poet, a statesman, or a prophet of this lineage, may supply a pattern of life for the comfort and the blessing of the children of men? Then, too, life is full of stern realities. Sorrow may cross the quiet threshold, and promised joys may slip away, like sand through the fingers. When a man and a woman go down into the shadows they begin to fear that, after all, life is not made of star-dust and roses as they had hoped it would be. But if they have realized their inspired ideal in the erection of the little House of Life, they need have no fear, for it will stand against the sternest fate. LITTLE MOMENTS OF ETERNITY "For like a child, sent with a fluttering light To feel his way along a gusty night, Man walks the world. Again and yet again, The lamp shall be by fits of passion slain; But shall not He who sent him from the door Relight the lamp once more? ?Edward Fitzgerald. Love fears no evil. Is she not cooperating with the Divine in the high adventure of life? Resting in 381 this security she waits joyously to set forth on the beaten path of the ages. Her deft fingers are prepared to weave the happiness that will go into the chest of hope. Her strong white hands are ready to polish the windows and the shining hearth in the little House of Life. With love forever in attendance, the man and the woman may enter with assurance on the open road to Joy. "If Winter comes, can Spring be far behind?"?Shelley.