This grand panorama is the course that has been run by Elder Albert Ernest Bowen, with his good forebears beginning the pageant on British soil and with his own skillful hand now participating at the great and guiding helm. O ye unto all the world and preach the gospel to every creature." (Mark 16:15) No greater labor of love was ever laid on the faithful than that; and probably no greater order was ever given in behalf of mankind. Il Duce would send his emissaries into other lands to impose fascism. Der Feuhrer would impose the nazi doctrine; and Stalin would have communism of his kind cover the earth; all of them by force, if necessary. Jesus would have his missionaries go voluntarily to carry the love of God to all who dwell on earth, that peace may abide in all the nations and good will in every heart. It was this lovely message of the Savior that the faithful missionaries of the Church were attempting to bear to all men; it was this "sound 336 of the gospel" that caught the attention of David Bowen, the young man in Wales, and Annie Shackleton, the young woman in England, unknown to each other, who were destined to meet and be joined in holy wedlock, far away in the land of Zion, and be the parents of Elder Bowen. "He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, and he that believeth not shall be damned." This statement does not carry a promise to pay for goodness nor a threat to destroy those who fail. It is merely a plain statement of natural consequence. If one believes and then acts as if he really does, appropriate reward is the only result that can follow. If one does not believe he will likely not act as if he does and this failure like all failures has damning consequences. The life and the actual day to day living of David Bowen and Annie Shackleton and the family they brought up have been consistent with a sincere and devout acceptance of the gospel of Christ. They heard the "word," they did what it required, and the "house" they built upon "a rock" has never been shaken by wind, or rain, or flood. The reward has been certain. DAVID BOWEN came to Utah from Wales in 1856. Annie Shackleton came from England in 1860. Both were in early youth, but they paid for their own passage with hard work and hard saving. They both came to Utah alone, as far as their own families were concerned. They met each other in Salt Lake City in 1860, married in 1861, and lived in Salt Lake until 1869. In these eight years, they acquired a little home of their own in the city, a five acre tract in "The Big Field", a family of four children, an increased love for the gospel they had espoused in their youth, and an RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE enlarged vision of the part they must take in the great movement they were a part of. COLONIZATION was one of the most evident of the Latter-day Saints activities in those early days. Thousands of people were coming annually to join the saints in Utah. Not only must the population spread out into new territory to prevent overcrowding, but all promising places must be taken possession of while the opportunity was favorable. Under a carefully planned program of settlement set up by the church under the direction of that greatest of all known colonizers, President Brigham Young, some of the saints were moving eastward from Salt Lake into Wyoming, some were moving southward into Utah's Dixie, and into Arizona, some westward into Nevada and some northward into Idaho. The most successful attempt at colonization the world knows about was being carried on with order and enthusiasm. People coming to Utah from all Lands were finding new homes and _ happily building up hundreds of successful and happy communities. The spirit of colonization took hold of the Bowens and the Bowens took hold of the movement. It helped them along into new opportunity. Important as this was to them, it was very much more important to the colonization movement. They helped it. They gave the movement direction and strength; they gave it wisdom; they gave it tenacity, industry, intelligence and fortitude. Those colonizers who moved along with the Bowens did so largely by reason of the Bowens. Ask any of them who were there and they will tell you that the Bowens were the moving and uplifting spirits in the settlement. Elder Bowen said in one ALBERT ERNEST BOWEN of his excellent essays, "The life of one great man is worth more in the world than the cattle on a thousand hills." (B. Y. C. Bulletin, Vol. X, No. 3.) It was so with this fine Bowen family in that great movement of people seeking new places to make homes and build communities. HE Bowens settled on Henderson Creek, a few miles south of Malad, Idaho, in the fall of 1869. It was here that Elder Bowen was born in 1876. The family moved a little later on to Samaria, a settlement about five miles southwest of Malad. This was their home for many years. They played a leading role in developing community life, in building churches, in organizing and carrying on religious institutions, in setting up schools, in accumulating good books and in crystallizing moral and religious sentiment into worthy standards of living. One brief glance into the Bowen home in the evening is beautiful. Father Bowen was industriously and thoughtfully reading the Bible or other church works, These were his favorites and claimed all his spare time. Mother Bowen was enjoying another classical English work of Thackeray or Scott or Dickens or another of this class, which she had managed in some ingenious way to possess; pausing at times to drive home a beautiful lesson to the rest of the family everyone of whom had a book in his hand or his "head in a book." Every winter evening was a night school. Mother teaching the great English classics, father teaching the Church works, and every member of the family an honor student. Given a few homes like this in every community and they will easily make the whole world into a paradise. Elder Bowen truthfully said, a 337 quarter of a century ago, "Improvement is like everything else; the desire for it has to be inspired before it can take place, and it takes opportunity to suggest possibility and beget desire. No one can have a desire for that which his mind has not conceived and the presence of that which leads to and suggests worthy conceptions, begets noble desires, and these in turn find expression in exalted achievement." (Loc cit) Elder Bowen must have gotten this grand thought right out of his own home. LL that has been said in this brief article, so far, constitutes the'solid foundation upon which Albert Ernest Bowen has built his life. Probably he would not, or could not wish a better foundation. How could there be a better one? He had within him that blessed gift of understanding which enabled him to see clearly what the entire panorama was, of what it was all about. He had also that magnificent gift of response which reacts sensibly to wholesome stimulus. By the time he had come to his youth, he was all wound up like some superior mechanism, having within him an unyielding power to keep on going. Energy, ambition and determination had been so deeply implanted in him, that there was never a thought of deviation from the courses on which his good father and his ingenious mother had started him. He was never like a meteor to shine out in a brief dazzle and then fall somewhere, but like a planet set going within the limitations of universal law to find his course to be constant and progressive. BERT BOWEN had visioned college days, and in spirit, had attended college long before he arrived 338 there. He had known some of his school teachers intimately, had seen how grand it was to be learned and had dared to envision himself sometime engaged in the noble vocation of school teacher. At the Brigham Young College in Logan he met many other young folks, brought up as he had been, in the same great movement, by sturdy parentage, in rough country under conditions of material poverty and spiritual riches. To all these fine young folks, he was an inspiration. No student ever outclassed him in character and scholarship. The leadership we mention in our first paragraph made itself strongly manifest in A. E. Bowen the very first year he was at college. His instructors remarked that he was distinctly on his way to the front ranks. Nothing but an all defeating calamity could have stopped this young scholar on his wy to some position of eminence where he could be useful to the most people possible. Elder Bowen said in the general conference of the church on April 6, 1937, "that the only thing in the world that counts is people. In all of his ministry Jesus was concerned only with people; nothing else mattered." Elder Bowen's old college day friends know that he was thinking this same grand thought thirty-five years ago. "I have never regarded RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE myself as a person of particular consequence," said Elder Bowen. (Loe. Cit) All his friends know that, and many will recall that his remark is a, worthy example of Emerson's great truism "All great men are willing to be small." (Compensation) Space compels that this article come to a close. We trust to others to tell much that we must necessarily omit. BROTHER BOWEN has never had to ask the question "Where shall I get an opportunity?" He has always been able to see opportunity. He has, however, often faced the perplexing question "Which opportunity shall I take?' Many of them have come to him. The wisdom to choose rightly has ever been his. When he received the late call to the Apostleship he very modestly said, "I pledge you that I will give it all my strength." This is a magnificent pledge, and it is no new pledge for A. E. Bowen. He made this pledge first on Henderson Creek. He repeated this pledge when he went to college, and again when selected for the debating team forty years ago, and how many times before and since, nobody knows. This pledge is not a slogan of his, it is a lifetime policy as deep seated as the very internal organs that keep him breathing. IDEALISTS By Claire Stewart Boyer We are all poets to the same degree That we are true to what we wish to be.