Two Little Girls in Pink By Ruth Partridge Richan WHEN word came to Nephi that Brother Brigham would come sometime after the 24th the folks all got together and decided to build a social hall in which to entertain his party, and surprise him as well. There were committees for getting rock and putting it into shape for the foundation, committees for making adobies, for getting timber out of the mountains, and so on. Everyone turned in and helped and inside of six weeks the building was up and finished. Now this had been excitement enough for two small girls, Elizabeth Claridge and Sarah Sperry, called "Pet", but now, a real theatrical troupe from Salt Lake City came through and here was a chance to break in the new building. Pet's father led the town orchestra which would play for the actors so the little girls stood a very good chance indeed of seeing the play. And they did see it, not only one night, but every one of the several performances. The hit of the show, as far as Elizabeth and Pet were concerned, was a Scotchman in magnificent attire who did the Highland Fling to the tune of "Old Aunt Sally" with such spirit and abandon that the two young ladies, aged five, could not sleep at night for thinking of it. Big eyed with admiration they nightly watched the intricate steps and when they were alone they practiced them. It happened that one day Sister Burchel spied them dancing and knowing a good thing when she saw it, told her Sister, Bishop Anderson's wife and Sarah Shell who kept the only store in Nephi. These three got their heads together and the upshot of it was that a surprise for the whole town was planned for the 24th of July. There was no time to be lost. Brother Henroid who was in both the band and the orchestra played "Aunt Sally" by the hour and the tiny feet stepped it off. Sister Shell made the long hard trip to Salt Lake City for the costume stuff, all on the quiet. Pet must not even tell her parents, for she was staying with her grandmother Miller when she wasn't at Elizabeth's house, and no one was to be told. This was the hardest 378 part of all, for little girls like to talk as well as big ones. So the great day arrived and the new social hall was again all a-buzz. The seats around the dance floor were jammed for the program. Brother Henroid had persuaded the orchestra leader to teach his men "Old Aunt Sally" not telling them why. There was a lull in the program? everything was ready. There was a great fanfare of trumpets! The double doors of the social hall were pushed open and in skipped two fairy creatures who began at once to dance the Highland Fling! Their dresses, from Salt Lake, were soft pink tarleton. Their tiny short skirts disclosed white fluffy peticoats at every kick. A pink and white dotted scarf went under the right arm and crossed on the left shoulder for a plaidie. Their hair was in ringlets. Small legs in long white stockings twinkled in and out with pink ribbons wrapped in diamond pattern up to the knees and tiny feet capered in black satin slippers. It was decided that the whole thing must be repeated for Brother Brigham when he came. Meanwhile the Scotchman of the theatrical troupe who had inspired all this had hurt his foot and was staying in Ephraim. Bishop Anderson was so enthusiastic that he sent RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for the afflicted thespian and had him teach the dance to the little girls in its entirety and he was paid for his work. At last Brother Brigham came. The brass band went out to meet his party, looking mighty spruce in a new gaily painted semi double-deck band wagon drawn by four beribboned prancing horses, and the bandmen themselves were attired in white suits trimmed with blue braid. The President and his party were brought in state to the new social hall where a band concert and banquet were to be the great events of the day. What a concert! "Nelly Gray", "Hard Times", "Dixie", "Old Dan Tucker", "Do Da Day" and of course "The Star Spangled Banner". Right in the middle of the banquet came the fanfare of trumpets, the doors were flung open, and the tiny girls danced the Highland Fling, their eyes wide with awe at the great man who sat at his table on the stage and watched them so intently. After it was over the floor manager and the door keeper handed up the panting little sprites to Brother Brigham and there they sat, one on each knee, and looked into his blue eyes. It was later, much later, that Elizabeth and Pet learned that the President had wished to take them back with him to dance in the Great Salt Lake Theater, but their parents said no?even to Brigham Young. The wages lost, the work spoilt, the health ruined through drinking He who has health, has hope; and he who has hope, has everything. ?Arabian Proverb. Look to your health; and if you have it, praise God and value it next to a good conscience; for health is the second blessing that we mortals are capable of?a blessing that money cannot buy; therefore value it, and be thankful for it?Isaak Walton. Are beyond computation.?Sir Thomas Oliver, M.