(To Be Continued) The Sheepskin on the Wall By Sibyl Spande Bowen HE only bright spot in the whole picture to Mark Manson was Sue, sitting several rows ahead of him, with the '"D's", the ugly mortar board cap perched at a pert angle on her bright brown hair. Her head was thrust slightly forward, her lips were parted. There was an air of breathless expectancy about her, as if she were on the brink of a thrilling adventure, as if she believed all those old saws the commencement speaker was loosing with such pious unction on the graduating class seated in their black gowns before him. "She looks like a bird," Mark thought, "all enthusiasm, as if the world had been handed to her on a silver platter today." He eyed the facile-tongued orator balefully and thought, "Oh yeah, we're the world's hope all right. They won't even give us a job." The speech came to a caressing ? close. The audience, half-hypnotized by the smooth flow of words, sat silent for a moment, then broke into relieved motion, coughed, buzzed with long suppressed chatter, and crowded out behind the seniors to a triumphant recessional march from the orchestra. The seniors marched into the faculty room to receive congratulations, kisses and flowers. There was no one there for Mark. His people lived too far away, but Sue was completely surrounded by the Davis family. She waved to Mark, a sheaf of red roses in her hand. He made motions, their secret sign code. Sue laughed, and nodded her head. She would meet him, this indicated, at their particular bench at the far end of Cedar Walk. ARK found their bench, laid the suitbox containing his cap and gown beside him, and sat down to wait. The crowd about the university 344 thinned rapidly, rolling away in long lines of cars, hurrying down the walk in garrulous twos and threes. The walk empty, Mark sank his head between his hands and glowered to his heart's content. It was a beastly mood to end his college career in, this panicky feeling of not being wanted, of having no place to go. It wasn't fair. He felt a hand on his shoulder, and turned to face Sue, lovely in her pale silk dress and white coat. "I sneaked up on you," she laughed, and do you know you look like you're posing for a picture of 'young man in deep despair'. Move over. I've gorgeous news for you. For us, I mean. Uncle Jed Davis dropped in for the big day, and he says we can run the company store down at Cherry Creek. Now we can get married at once, Mark, the way we planned to if that job down in Arizona had come through." Mark's frown had lifted at Sue's first words. At mention of the store his mouth tightened angrily. "Did you say good news? Listen here, Sue, I love you with everything I've got, and I'd give a good deal to get married right away, but there are limits. You ask me to go down in the desert and run that dinky little mining camp store after I've slaved away here for four years getting a degree so I could be an engineer. Not on your life. I'll find a way to use my training, or I'll do nothing." Red flared into Sue's cheeks. Her brown eyes sparked angry glints. "You'll do nothing, then, I guess. Just about six hundred seniors after a few coy jobs, so your chance isn't so bright, my lad." She dropped her anger swiftly and laid a hand on his arm. "Mark, dear, it won't be permanent. Just so we can get a start." "Nothing doing, darling. I'll get a job in time. Don't you worry about RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE that. But it'll be the job I want, not just something to pay the grocery bill with,' Mark said, tossing a blond lock out of his eyes. Sue was white. "I?I see. Your job comes first, I come second. I?I thought?oh, well what's the use talking about it. I won't stand in your way, Mark. You'll be better off without me hanging on to you?free to wait for the right kind of job." "Sue," Mark cried, "don't talk that way. You know how I feel about you. It's just that I don't want to start wrong. I won't ask you to wait for me if you don't want to." His blue eyes were pleading, but Sue saw only his set, stubborn mouth. Suddenly they were standing, facing each other with hostile wariness. Mark couldn't tell how it happened. Certainly the last thing he wanted was a break with Sue, who had been his "girl" all through college, but here it was. "Thanks for suggesting it,' Sue whispered with an attempt at irony, "that's a neat way of putting it Don't worry. I'm not the kind to 'wait' for anybody. I?oh, what's the use. Happy landings, Mr. Engineer."" She turned and ran across the lawn, but not before Mark had seen the glint of angry tears in her brown eyes. Mark felt a sudden, sinking, desolation. She'd gone. Well, let her, if that was the way she wanted it. He had himself to consider in this affair. He sat down on the bench again, his long frame slumping dejectedly on the bench. There was no particular reason why he should go anyplace, he reflected bitterly. For all Sue, or anyone else cared, he could sit out his life on the edge of Cedar Walk, and the world would never know the difference. Just one less nuisance looking for a job. He was quite overwhelmed with this warm wash of self-pity. THE SHEEPSKIN ON THE WALL AN old man ambled down the walk from the Assembly building. A dressy old soul, Mark noticed sourly, with fawn-colored gloves and a red carnation in his buttonhole. That ruddy face was vaguely familiar. He was expensively dressed, too, the way certain of the older generation could afford to dress. They'd had all the chances, of course, when the country was new and there were more jobs than men. Mark wished with all his heart that-he had been born thirty years earlier. "Couldn't get a cab. Too many other people wanted them, so I thought I'd walk down this way to a bus. You get them here, don't you?" the old fellow remarked cheerfully, pausing before Mark. "Mind if I share that bench with you for a few minutes? Too nice a day to hurry away from a grand campus like this one." Mark moved his suit box ungraciously and the man sat down. The lid slipped from the box and disclosed the cap and gown within. The old man pounced on it happily. "So you're one of those lucky young graduates I saw today." He took off his own expensive felt hat and perched the mortarboard atop his thick white hair. "Here's how I looked forty years ago, just such a June day as this one. Of course the hair was red, and the face wasn't, but you get the general idea," he explained expansively, turning his slightly cherubic old face up to the summer sun. Mark grinned, in spite of himself. The old fellow was in such a gay mood he couldn't keep his own private grouch. "Are you one of our alumni, sir?" he asked, more agreeably, "I understand it's the fortyyear reunion today, all right." "Not of this college, son. Not this college," the old man said, removing the cap and turning it about on 345 his hand, "my college could hide in a wing of this big place and never be noticed. Cherry Hill College, it is, down in Virginia. But it was a real college, son, don't forget that. Old Dr. Peabody never let a man get a degree unless he was educated, and then he got his sheepskin with all the flourishes the college could put on. Real sheepskin, too. None of this parchment paper stuff for Dr. Peabody." "Well," Mark growled, plunged into melancholy again by the mention of sheepskins, "I guess it does not make much difference to us fellows. Likely we. Won't ever get a chance to use even an imitation one." The old man broke into his cherrycheeked grin again. 'Ha, that sounds like home to me. You know I never got a chance to use my education, either, real sheepskin and all." "You never got a chance to use it?" repeated Mark, lifting his head and tossing back the blond lock in amazement, "why that's ridiculous. Forty years ago this country could use all the men it could get, trained or not. They didn't have enough of any profession."' "Had plenty of lawyers even forty years ago," the old man twinkled, "but that's not the story. Fact was, when I got back to my father's farm after I graduated, father was on his death bed. He made me promise I'd run the farm until the younger boys were through college, so they could have the chance I'd had." "Just like a woman asking her daughter never to marry until she died," Mark objected, "it wasn't fair." "You bet it was fair," the old man flashed, ''we knew what duty was in those days. And I got married, all right. Martha and I built us a pretty little place the other end of the farm, and I hung my sheepskin on the wall while the boys and I ran that place and made it pay. All three of them went through Cherry Hill college before mother died, and then we sold the farm and divided up the money. I had two boys of my own by that time, with a baby girl thrown in for good measure. Then, with the farm off my hands, and the boys on their own, I decided to set up an office and practice law, as I'd been trained to do."
"But you were too rusty on it, by that time," Mark surmised, shaking his head, "it must have been several years after you graduated, wasn't it?"
"Ten, to be exact," the old man admitted, "but you're wrong about getting rusty. Good common sense gets a chance to sharpen up every day of your life, and I'd kept up my reading. Once a man knows how to use his law books he's always ready to set himself up. Here, you take this," he handed the mortarboard to Mark, "before I have it all used up in twirling."
"As I was saying, I was all ready to practice. Even passed my bar examinations, when the panic of 1907 hit our valley pretty hard. Folks were uneasy and fearful. A fellow by the name of Wilkins had been out West, and he began to talk about the free land to be homesteaded. One valley in particular would accommodate the whole lot of us with a half section of land apiece, and there was a company ready to build a reservoir to irrigate it if enough people filed on the land to pay them to start work. A group of old friends and neighbors came to the house one night and asked me to head a bunch who wanted to start out anew in the West. Pretty discouraged with things at home, they were. The way they'd been handling their farms the land was about worn out, and no jobs to get when they did give up the old places.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
"Martha was against it at first. We had our pretty little place, and enough money to keep us until my practice was worked up, but she was soon talked over. She could see as well as I could the men needed someone to organize things if they were going to make a new start.
"So we sold out and went West. We didn't homestead. That was our first mistake. We let that irrigation company talk us into buying land from them for about a dollar an acre. We thought it was dirt cheap, but we didn't know the West.
"We'd been used to easy farming, and signed up for so much clearing and cultivation and fencing that a bunch twice our size couldn't have got it done in the two years we agreed upon. We worked early and late, grubbing sagebrush, digging post holes, and chasing out jackrabbits. Then that irrigation company began to hint around we might lose our land.
"You can bet I got busy. I took the trip, I remember, to the capitol, to explain how we needed more time to fulfill the contract. I have to laugh now, when I think of it.
"They didn't want us to have enough time. It would have broken their hearts and spoiled all their plans if we'd had enough time. That shyster bunch had tricked us greenhorns into biting off more than we could chew, and got us there, sixty families working thirty sections of land, with houses, barns, plowed land and everything started fine, just so they could take it away from us and bleat 'contract broken'. I guess my education had been napping when I let them put that over in the first place.
"But I woke up, you can bet. I got right busy, passed the bar examinations in that state and sat down to get us out of the mess we were in. The company had the nerve to offer
THE SHEEPSKIN ON THE WALL
to let us buy our own farms at ten dollars an acre. You can imagine how mad that made us. It took me over two years to clear our titles and put that bunch of crooks where they belonged. All good solid law work, you might say, but still I wasn't practicing my profession exactly; wasn't using my education the way I'd thought to when I graduated.
"By that time we had a little town there. Other families had moved in and we'd built a church and a schoolhouse. It looked as though the time had come when I could quit farming and put out my shingle. So Martha and I sold our half section, built us a little town house and got busy on plans for the office. Somehow, I wasn't so happy about it as I'd expected to be. I'd been a sort of public prop for so long I scarcely knew how I'd go about the process of simply minding my own business. But as it turned out, I didn't get a chance to try it."
Mark had been listening with his mouth half open, and now he gave a deep sigh and slumped back onto the bench. "I see. You'd been out of touch with your profession so long you couldn't take it up when you did have the chance. That's what I'm afraid of, myself. That's why I won't take just any old thing."
"Not so fast, son. You jump at conclusions too handily," the old man interrupted, out of patience, "I didn't say I was out of touch. I was all ready to go, as you young folks say, but people all over our state had heard of me by that time. They made me senator and sent me to Washington, and I've been so dratted busy these last twenty-five years I haven't even had time to think of my own affairs."
The old man ho-hummed, rearranged the red carnation in his buttonhole, and prepared to get up.
Mark looked at him for a dazzled moment, and then burst out, "Why I know who you are now sir. You're Senator Gray, and you're one of the guests of honor here today. How did you get away from them, to stroll off here by yourself?"
Senator Gray chuckled. "You learn how to give 'em the slip, son, so you can enjoy yourself once in a while. They owe me a little time to myself, don't you think, seeing they never did give me a chance to use my education? Well, it's been a pleasure, chatting with a young fellow like you, just out of college, all eager for a chance to get started and show the world how it's done." He lifted his hat jauntily as Mark sprang to his feet, and strolled down the path humming a little tune in pleasant off-key.
All eager for a chance! Mark forgot to be sarcastic about that. He was eager for a chance, and perhaps that little store down in the desert was it. You couldn't tell anything about blind alleys, it seemed, if farms and moldy old irrigation projects were roads to glory. A light came into his blue eyes as he gathered up his hat and suit box and strode down the path. He could reach Sue on the 'phone by now. If not, he'd get hold of someone's car and drive out to her place. He'd get there. Everything was suddenly possible. She must know about him, at once. And it didn't matter how small that store was, or where it was. The thing was, to get started doing something. That is if Sue would? oh, of course she would. Sue was that kind of a girl.