Hope Chests By Harrison R. Merrill EVERY woman at some time in her life has had, either real or imaginary, a Hope Chest. This hope chest, as nearly as I can make out, is a cherished receptacle into which goes from time to time precious things?table linens, quilts, dishes, scarfs?against the coming of the great day. I have always thought the practice a good one. I have seen some of those hope chests. Beautiful were they for the fine cedar wood of which they were made and for the wonderful dreams with which they were filled. When a woman marries these receptacles of the dreams of the future often become store-places of the treasures of the past. That is as it should be, no doubt. Dreams have come true, and the memories of their fruition are dear. At that time a different kind of hope chest takes the place of those made of wood. It is a tiny little head out of which look two precious eyes, one on either side of a promising prominence which may some day be a reasonably wellshaped nose above a rose-bud mouth. The girl who once dreamed over her precious linen and silk now dreams over her treasure of flesh and blood. She knows that wrapped mysteriously somewhere in the tiny head is a brain out of which someday must grow a personality. She knows how delicate is the mechanism, if it is a mechanism, how susceptible it is to impressions. That is, she knows ?if she is a wise little dreamer with dreams still unmaterialized?dreams of a beautiful, well-mannered girl who will grow into a responsible, sensible woman, or of a splendid boy who may someday be governor or president. Unfortunately, on account of the eagerness of that little brain for materials upon which to feed, many a word, or look, or act goes into the little "hope chest" unknown to the fond mother. On the other hand, she often consciously attempts to slip something into the child's mind and thinks she has done so when in reality it has glanced aside or has been smothered by some other interest. Every fond mother, I hope, when she looks at sonny or daughter sees in him or her a community leader, a wielder of influence in his set. However, many a parent acts as if she expects the influence to be a bad influence. She tells son or daughter how to act and then acts in a contrary manner expecting her words to take effect and her acts not to. I STAND astonished and amazed and subdued in the presence of a baby?anybody's baby. That is the amazing thing?anybody's baby! For some of the least promising have become wonders of the world, and some of the most promising, the disappointment of parents and the world alike. For instance, who could have dreamed that the slave's child hidden away in the bullrushes would one day become one of the world's great leaders and law-givers; who could have foretold that the little hopechest in the three-sided Kentucky cabin would be done in heroic size in marble and would sit forever enshrined both in his country's capital and in the hearts of his countrymen? Of course, the old argument still goes on, the old question is still asked: How much which went to make a Lincoln what he was, was born in him; how much was put in him by his teachings and environment? No one as yet can answer the question definitely, but certainly we have enough data to indicate that environment is important. Lincoln came out boldly and declared: "All 374 that I am and all that I ever hope to be, I owe to my angel mother." Since she died when he was nine, she must have taken great pains with her little Kentucky "hope chest". What a dream come true was he! A MOTHER is on the spot, if I may be allowed to use a slang term. Though undoubtedly she is not responsible for all of the heterogeneous ideas that get stored up in her loved "hope chests", she is responsible for many of them. She may have been entirely innocent, ignorantly innocent, when she gave a twist to a child's thinking which someday led to disaster; but nature, unfortunately, does not excuse the innocent. No matter how innocent one is of the damage that will be done by laying a hand on a hot stove, he will be burned if he does it. These little "hope chests" are so sponge-like in their nature, so absorbent, that they will sop up everything that comes their way. It is a wise mother who goes through the little "chest" occasionally to see what has gone into it and then wisely to remove some of the rubbish before damage is done. Perhaps the child as he grows becomes too acquisitive, he "finds things" every once in a while?brings home tops and marbles and markers which he has "found" somewhere. Little acts like those often betray the contents of the "hope chest." Mary saw her Boy at play; she heard His words, and treasured His deeds and His words in her heart, for they were good deeds, good words. I wonder if she ever had to remove little warped ideas that got in her Son's mind? Some people would cry, "Sacrilege!" But Paul said, "Though He were a Son, yet He learned obedience by the things which He suffered and being made perfect..." and so on. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOW, I am certain I have rambled far enough for my readers to get some inkling of what I have been trying to say. It is merely this: when a girl marries her old hope chest of wood is replaced by little, but much more precious ones of flesh and bone and brain, and that if she is a normal mother she has great dreams for the little ones; she sees them in important places as good men and women, and consequently, she prayerfully goes about the joyous task of filling those little "hope chests" with proper things? ideas which make and build the world as well as the personality. When the time arrives, she sends them to school and Sunday school for further cramming. I have tried to say that we cannot always get the things we want into those little "hope chests"; that often unknown to us, we put ideas in which will cause trouble if by wise and proper methods they are not removed before a character is warped. MY suggestion on how to fill a hope chest of this kind may not be worth much, but here it is: I think the mother and the father, too, for that matter, should live a normal, genuine life without artifice or show. They should know that living the good life is the only way under heaven to teach the good life. They should set their standards by their way of life and expect their children to live according to those standards, not according to what they teach. Dr. George H. Brimhall used to quote the lines, "Your actions speak with such a loud voice I cannot hear your words." Hope chests, yes,?and how precious they are when properly filled with solid, sane ideas which make and remake the world.