Conference Address By Bishop Sylvester Q. Cannon I AM happy to greet you. I take it that the largest part of this congregation consists of the presiding officers in Stakes, Wards and Missions of Relief Society, and as such I congratulate you on the splendid work that you, in cooperation with the Presidency and General Board of Relief Society, are doing in this great organization. I have great respect for the Relief Society. My first experience with it, and I am reminded of this by Sister Merrill's report, was some thirty-seven years ago when I was twenty-three years of age, presiding over the mission in Holland and Belgium. In those days there were no mission supervisors in' Relief Society, Sunday School or other organizations; but the Mission President had to combine within himself all the supervisory duties of the organizations; and so I had: occasion frequently to visit the Relief Society in the various branches of that Mission, and of instructing them, theoretically of course, as I had no practical experience. But it was surprising how kind they were at receiving my suggestions and instructions. Some time later I was called into the Presidency of Pioneer Stake, and had the pleasure and opportunity of frequent contact with the Relief Society in that Stake, and in the Ward organizations throughout the Stake; and I learned to appreciate in large measure the wonderful work being done by them. I found in the Ward conferences that the Bishoprics of the Wards would report, in every instance, that the Relief Society was a great support to the Bishopric by looking after the welfare of those in need,?the sick and those in distress. In more recent years I have had the pleasure of meeting the Presidency of Relief Society, as nearly as possible every week, to discuss with them their problems and successes. T have realized in large measure how splendidly the work is being done, and how unselfishly and whole-heartedly the sisters in this great organization are doing the service which is sO necessary all the time, and has been particularly necessaty in the last few years during the times that have been less fortunate for the people throughout the Church and throughout the Nation. I HAVE not had time to think of many things to talk about this afternoon, but I made a few notes to which I would like to call attention. The first thing is what the Prophet Joseph Smith had in mind when he organized the Relief Society on March 17, 1842, in connection with some of the General Authorities of the Church. I would like to read this brief statement of the purpose of Relief Society: "To care for the poor, the sick and unfortunate; to minister where death reigns; to assist in correcting the morals and strengthening the virtues of community life; to raise human life to its highest level; to lift and enlarge the scope of women's activities and conditions; to foster love for religion, education, culture and refinement; to develop faith; to save souls; to study and teach the Gsopel." What a wonderful charge that is for any organization, and how fortunate the Relief Society is to have CONFERENCE ADDRESS such a charge placed in their hands. You have great traditions in this organization. You have been fortunate enough to have been organized by the founder of the Church under the direction of the Lord, to get instructions direct from him to your organization, and to carry forward so faithfully and well the purposes for which the organization was instituted. I would like again to read a further statement of what the Prophet himself said: "I now turn the key in your behalf in the name of the Lord, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time henceforth. This is the beginning. Of better days for the poor and needy, who shall be made to rejoice and pour forth blessings on your heads." Again he said, "Let kindness, charity and love crown your works henceforth." Again, "As you increase in innocence and virtue, as you increase in goodness, let your hearts expand; you must be long-suffering and bear with the faults and the errors of others." Again he said, "Said Jesus, 'Ye shall do the work, which ye see me do.' These are the grand key-words for the Society to act upon." The Savior, you remember, went around doing good. That was His work, to preach the Gospel, to bind up the wounds of those who were bruised and hurt, and to bring comfort to all with whom he came in contact. That is a splendid example to be set for members of the Relief Society who are following in His footsteps and endeavoring to accomplish this charge. HOW has the Society measured up to its responsibilities? I am sure that in all the years that have passed since that time up to 349 the present time, the officers and members have nobly and zealously fulfilled every duty. I know that you are going forward to give of yourselves unselfishly for the welfare of those: who need your help. Now, as I see it, among the important objectives of the Society are social welfare and relief for those in need, maternal and child welfare and educational programs. There are other things that are being done in the Society that are very helpful, but it seems to me these are the fundamental objectives you have within your responsibility. In social service the Relief Society has adopted what is to me a very splendid plan, of taking from the best social service practice of the day the essentials to be employed in investigating carefully and confidentially the needs of the members of the Church within the Wards under the direction of the Bishopric and of supplying the reasonable needs. They are not professional social workers, they are volunteer social workers who are full of sympathy and kindness and consideration, and who endeavor to see that those who are in need get what they require without any public knowledge of their conditions except through the Relief Society social workers, the Presidency and the Bishopric of the Ward. With that method and that plan they are doing a very splendid work. I know quite thoroughly what their conditions have been, what they are doing, how they are trying to train women in all the various societies throughout the Church to do this work in a just, kindly and sympathetic way. Wil regard to maternal and child welfare, I am just reminded in this connection that the health of mothers and children is 350 being promoted very actively by the Relief Society. For instance, whether it be due to that work, or other things, the lives and health and right living of the mothers in this Church,?the maternal death rate? is considerably lower than throughout the nation. Taking the report of the United States as a whole for the year 1934, which is the last published record, the United States has a considerably higher death rate from causes incident to childbirth than is the case in the Church. It is 10.2 per 100,000 population. The Church has a death rate of 7.9 per 100,000 population, or 23% less. In the matter of infant mortality,?that is the death of infants under one year of age,?the 1934 report shows that in the United States as a whole the average per 1000 live births is 60.1. In the case of Latter-day Saints it is 33.1,?about half,? and yet our conditions in many cases are in some respects more primitive. There are more people living on the frontier among the Latter-day Saints than there are throughout the United States as a whole, and yet I am sure there is a great deal that can be done now and in the future through the efforts of Relief Society in cooperation with all the agencies that are cooperating for better health conditions, better protection for mothers and children, and better education with regard to the care of infants. We hope this death rate can be reduced still more, and better health and better protection provided in all of our various communities no matter how far away they are from medical centers. That is a very worthwhile and very important thing that needs to be done. It is said that ''a mother and father can live in the same house with a child for years, and still never know the child because they have never RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE won its confidence." What a mistake for the parents not to have the confidence, love and understanding of the child's wishes and desires. That is one of the great charges, as I see it, against many families in this nation. Burbank said, "If we had paid no more attention to our plants than we have to our children, we would now be living in a jungle of weeds." As mothers in the home, they have more influence, and should have more of the confidence of their children than anyone else, and they should jealously guard that confidence, and undertake to maintain it and increase the confidence between mother and child, that the mother may influence the child to grow in faith and righteousness, to resist evil, immorality and every other thing that will lead it away and interfere with its progress in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. THE Relief Society is cooperating whole-heartedly and energetically with the Church Security Program. As an organization they have certain duties and responsibilities to be carried out, and should not be hampered or restricted by Stake Presidents or Ward Bishoprics. Their funds for specific purposes should not be diverted. They are entitled, as an organization, to carry out, under the Stake Presidents and Bishoprics, the purposes for which they have been organized. Every one of these brethren who realize the splendid work they are doing will encourage them to carry out the plans for which they are organized, including their splendid unselfish service for the general needs of the people in the Church who are in distress and trouble. They do special work that should not be interfered with. They are called upon at all times, as the Prophet Joseph said CONFERENCE ADDRESS they should be, to take care of conditions of death, sickness and distress, many of which are immediate and urgent, and they should maintain certain supplies and equipment for such emergencies. They are giving such whole-souled service, that they should be heartily sustained and encouraged in these efforts. IT is said that anyone who is not willing to give to life more than he takes out of it is not living up to the standards and ideals which all of us should maintain. I am sure the Relief Society manifests the other attitude,?they are giving much more 351 than they are getting back; they are doing much more than they are getting credit for. They do not ask for credit, they are not seeking praise, but go forward quietly and unselfishly to accomplish the work they are doing. I pray that the Lord may bless and assist all of you in the great work you are doing, that you may be strengthened continually, and keep in mind continually that one of the great purposes is to help all Latter-day Saints to help themselves to become self-sustaining.