Cooperation By Bishop John Wells OOPERATION is the act of C working jointly together. In the sense of working together for a common result, cooperation is as old as human nature. A cooperative society is defined as a voluntary union of persons, on a democratic basis, to supply its members with goods and services, or to employ its members in producing for sale, or to sell its members' produce, or to finance its members, or to combine all these aims in one, and at the same time to distribute surpluses in a manner agreed upon by the members as fair to each and all. Cooperation is rooted back far into the past, but it is this modern world which has created the need and given the opportunity for the present cooperative movement, which now numbers more than 100,000,000 members. The success of the movement depends on "all for each and each for all" and this relies largely on the degree of intelligence, honesty and loyalty of the group, and the active interest of each member. GREAT BRITAIN is the home of cooperation as a movement, and of consumers' cooperation in particular. As early as 1761, a Fenwick Weavers Society in Ayrshire, Scotland, supplied its members with tools for their work and oatmeal for home consumption. In 1795, 1,400 inhabitants of Hull, in order to protect themselves "from the invasions of merciless men", established a society. Their flour mill continued to operate for one hundred years. Other societies were organized in the towns of Davenport and Sheerness, with various degrees of success. With the efforts of Robert Owen of Manchester, in 1820, and Dr. William King of London, 1827, and others, the English people began to take cooperation seriously. Changed conditions developed in England. Many workers realized there was something better for them than to work merely as industrial machines. Although the ideals of these pioneers of cooperation were not realized, the short-lived cooperative stores showed the advantages of community cooperative trading. In 1844, twenty-eight impoverished weavers of the cotton spinning factories of Rochdale, near Manchester, conceived a simple idea which revolutionized cooperation and is still the basis of producers' and consumers' cooperative societies. Their first effort was the purchase of a sack of flour which they divided among themselves. Finding it much cheaper to do this, than to purchase from the retail stores in small amounts, these twenty-seven men and one woman (Ann Tweedale) agreed to operate a small joint store. It took almost a year for them to save one pound each. On December 21, 1844, these pioneers having saved $140.00, bought supplies from wholesalers and in turn repurchased them through their store. At Toad Lane, Rochdale, their store opened with four staple products; tea, sugar, flour and rice. These weavers had taken the good principles which time had proved valuable to those who had tried cooperation previously, but they had also somehow stumbled on COOPERATION to a plan which would make the dreams of Robert Owen and Dr. William King and others a reality. Credit is due the Rochdale pioneers for standardizing the cooperative system. These Rochdale weavers, though untrained men in business, blazed the trail and prepared the way for the great era of cooperation. The principles upon which the Rochdale Cooperative Society was founded are (a) Open membership for all classes of people. (b) Democratic control. One member, one vote, thus upsetting the old system of one share, one vote. No voting by proxy. (c) Capital investment at a low rate of interest. (d) Part of the profits set aside for reserves, for education and for other purposes to be determined at a_ stockholders' meeting (e) The surplus not returned to stockholders, as dividends, but divided among the consumers or purchasers. This surplus or profit is returned once a year, based on the purchases of the consumer. (f) No political, religious, or racial discrimination. (g?) No extensive advertising. No special merchandise sales. No deliveries or credit. All sales cash and carry. (h) Rigid accounting and careful auditing. In Great Britain, in consequence of opposition, it became necessary to organize societies to purchase goods in the open market for distribution to the consumers' cooperatives. These societies known as the Cooperative Wholesale Societies have been organized on the same principles as the regular consumers' cooperatives. The wholesale societies supply bakery products, shoes, clothing of all kinds, coal, milk, dairy products and meat to consumers' cooperatives. Not only have the Wholesale Societies provided for the individual needs of their members 353 and others, but they have developed along educational and recreational lines. These societies own a large number of manufacturing plants, maintain libraries, arrange for lectures, establish and maintain weekend schools, distrbute and publish their own periodicals, give concerts, dances and entertainments in their own halls and promote field days for old and young. The Wholesale Societies have also gone into the field of insurance, maintaining life and fire insurance cooperatives. Small loan banking has been highly developed. The Cooperative bank in Manchester has the largest turnover of any bank in England. The Cooperative Bakeries have reduced the price of bread. In Edinburgh a pound loaf made by the Cooperatives sells for three and a half cents. The great Cooperative Bakery in Glasgow, the largest in the world, covers four blocks, employs 1,700 people and has one hundred and _ thirty trucks to distribute its products. One of the great Cooperative Wholesale Societies in England employs 30, 000 people. The manager of this great institution gets a salary of about $3,600.00 a year; however, after a certain period he retires on full pay. These wholesale cooperatives supply their own consumers' cooperatives exclusively. The cooperatives neither manufacture nor sell intoxicants of any kind. In Great Britain, the Consumers' Cooperatives have 7,483,976 shareholder members, with assets of over a billion dollars and with yearly sales amounting to $1,000,200,000. There are 210,953 employees in the Consumers' Cooperatives, and many thousands more are employed in other departments of cooperative work. The Women's Cooperative Guild, founded in England in 1883, and 354 having 58,000 members, holds an important annual congress; is a selfgoverning organization mainly of married women, intent on stimulating and organizing the ideas and abilities of the woman in the home, both as a cooperator and a citizen. ME: HOWARD A. COWDEN, President of the Consumers Cooperative Association of North Kansas City, Missiouri, who visited cooperative institutions in England in 1934, records some interesting facts for that year. He writes of the displays at the Cooperative Congress, showing that almost every human want can be supplied through Cooperative Societies. The London Society, with 535,000 members, has over two hundred grocery and meat stores as well as fifty departmental stores. He states, "It distributes milk and sells coal, drugs, eyeglasses, theatre and travel tickets. It will launder your clothes, give you a permanent wave, tap your shoes and rent you a bus. On all this business it pays patronage dividend. Then, if in spite of all these services, you happen to die, it will conduct your funeral and pay your heirs insurance for which you have paid no premium but which you have earned by trading with the London Cooperative Society. London has four great Cooperative Societies with nearly a million cooperators." ONSUMERS' Cooperatives are not unknown to me, for as a young boy I well remember my mother, who was a member, purchasing from the Society in Nottingham. She owned one share of stock in the Society which cost one pound. Her purchases were entered by the Society in her pass book, together with the amount and date of purchase. At the close of the year a dividend was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE usually declared of not less than 10% on her purchases, or in other words, she received a proportion of the Society's surplus according to the amount of her purchases. DENMARK, avowing her debt to Rochdale, exhibits: a rural population using its double power as producers and consumers to attain a very complete cooperative welfare. Danish cooperatives have reached a development unknown in any other country. Josephine Goldmark in 'Democracy in Denmark" states that the Danish system of cooperation has won its world eminence through two remarkable factors: the small farm unit, essential in its intensive animal industry, and the large-scale cooperative farm associations responsible for the maintenance of uniformly high quality of production and also for marketing and finance. Nearly all Danish farms are owned by the occupant?probably not more than 5 per cent being held by tenants. Of the 206,000 Danish farms, 90 per cent are members of the cooperative dairies; the milk of more than 86 per cent of all the cows is processed in these dairies. Private dairies now number only about 338 as compared with 1,402 cooperative dairies. Of the 85 packing plants in Denmark, 62 are cooperative. The cooperatives for feeding supplies conduct over 67 per cent: of the business in this field. The cooperative seed associations have the largest seed business in Scandinavia and fill about 40 per cent of the seed industry in Denmark. COOPERATION in Ireland commenced in 1906. Ina little cabin amongst the barren hills of Donegal, a few Irish peasants conducted in turn, every evening, a tiny cooperative store. This Templecrone society has now become a peasant consumers? COOPERATION 35 and producers' cooperative. The farmers' creameries are prospering under Government supervision. In joining a creamery the farmers take shares in proportion to their cows, guarantee milk supplies and receive payment monthly, or oftener, in proportion to the butter fat from each supplier (less the value of separated milk returned) with the surplus on working costs divided in the same way at each year end. The principle is the simple Rochdale idea adapted. GWEDEN, with a population of over 6,000,000 is one of the highly developed cooperative countries. More than one-third of the inhabitants of Sweden conduct their business through cooperative societies exclusively. Their manufacturing plants, wholesale distributing houses, consumers' cooperatives and production institutions are noted for their high standards and the quality of their products. COOPERATIVES in other European countries is developed to a marked degree. In Norway, Spain, Holland, Finland and other countries cooperation plays an important part in the peoples' welfare. N all countries where liberty even in a small degree prevails, cooperatives are developing. It may be surprising to some to know that there are hundreds of cooperative organizations in Africa, Asia, and South America. Statistics of 1933 show 14,651 cooperative societies in Japan, with 5,- 247,541 members. In Japan, cooperatives have been sponsored by Toyohiko Kagawa. He recognized seven kinds of cooperatives and is laboring to establish all seven kinds, since he feels that these seven cover Lo all fields of human economic interests. The seven kinds are: Producers, Consumers, Credit, Marketing, Utilities, Insurance, and Mutual Aid. He said, regarding the cooperative movement in Japan, "If we could have the seven kinds of cooperatives ?we then would have no competitive and profiteering economic motives, we could have a good state." CONSUMERS' Cooperation in America dates from 1845, only one year later than the original beginnings in England. There have been many waves but it was not until recent years that cooperatives under the Rochdale system have become active. The cooperative movement in America is far less developed than in Europe. Cooperative organizations are most developed in the Middle West. Cooperatives operate retail and wholesale enterprises, gasoline filling stations, bakeries, laundries, restaurants, creameries, saw mills, coal mines, farm supply houses, etc. Cooperatives have established in North Kansas City an oil blending plant, the first of its kind owned by a cooperative organization in the United States. The oil is distributed locally and quantities are shipped to the cooperatives in Europe. Ohio farmers have formed a cooperative society for the manufacture of fertilizers. In 1935 there were in the United States 8,794 cooperative marketing associations, with 2,490,000 members; and 1,906 cooperative associations purchasing farm supplies, according to the 1936 Bulletin of the Farm Credit Administration. Uniting all the cooperatives in its federation and propaganda stands the Cooperative League of America, with J. P. Warbasse, President, with headquarters in New York City. "Its purpose," A. D. Warbasse states, "is to spread the scientific knowledge of 356 cooperative technique based on the soundest phases of the European experience, so that no longer will isolated societies be obliged to experiment for themselves. Through its propaganda it aims to guide the movement with the knowledge of the history, the purpose and the ideals of cooperation." "Perhaps the most fundamental influence of the cooperatives in Denmark," writes Josephine Goldmark, "has been through their effect on distribution of wealth. The profits of agriculture instead of being concentrated in the hands of a few have been spread out to a very large number of farm owners in the form of 'surplus' dividends at the end of the year; in the form of modest salaries to the managers of the cooperative societies." If the principles of the Rochdale system were followed in any country, would not this same fundamental influence obtain? THE interest of the leaders of our Nation are turned towards cooperation as it is being carried forward in the European countries. According to the Deseret News account of March 12, 1937, a Presidential Commission last summer visited Europe and studied the various Cooperatives. These societies offer everything from food to funerals, the Commission reports. All members agreed that the European Cooperatives were "big business." One member of the Commission expressed the idea that European Cooperatives were a combination of idealism and practical business. The question of the future of cooperation is of particular interest. LATTER-DAY SAINTS at an early day were advised regarding this matter of cooperation. I quote from a letter written about the year 1868, to the officers of the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Church, signed by President Brigham Young, his Counselors, and eleven of the Council of the Twelve Apostles: "One of the great evils with which our own nation is menaced at the present time is the wonderful growth of wealth in the hands of a comparatively few individuals. The very liberties for which our fathers contended so steadfastly and courageously, and which they bequeathed to us as a priceless legacy, are endangered by the monstrous power which this accumulation of wealth gives to a few individuals and a few powerful corporations. By its seductive influence results are accomplished which, were it more equally distributed, would be impossible under our form of government. It threatens to give shape to the legislation, both State and National, of the entire country. If this evil should not be checked, and measures not taken to prevent the continued enormous growth of riches among the class already rich, and the painful increase of destitution and want among the poor, the nation is likely to be overtaken by disaster; for, according to history, such a tendency among nations once powerful was the sure precursor of ruin. The evidence of the restiveness of the people under this condition of affairs in our times is witnessed in the formation of societies of grangers, of patrons of husbandry, trades unions, etc., combinations of the productive and working classes against capital." It would seem that the world is unchanged. Are we not confronted with the same problem today? LET us turn to an objective of the Church Security Plan: To promote equality, make our. People selfsupporting, provide profitable employment and to substitute coopera- COOPERATION tion among our people, for competition and individualism which now exists. The basis of cooperation is consideration of the group as a whole, rather than the individual. It means bringing the producer and the consumer together and eliminating the costly middle man; the trading of what you have for what you need. COOPERATION will raise the standard of living, increase the avenues of employment and produce for consumption and not for competition. I favor the statement made hy J. P. Warbasse: "Cooperation rests on the simple principle that we human beings need one another. The positive expression of this human need is cooperation. We human beings need one another; we need not only to be helped by others but we need to help others in order that we ourselves may arise to the highest fulfilment of life." Cooperation introduces the spirit of fellowship between individuals; among races and nationalities. 357 AS Latter-day Saints we cooperate in spiritual matters. Ours is a practical religion. It is applicable "to every-day living. Let us cooperate more perfectly in our temporal affairs, or in other words "live and help others to live." STATISTICIANS claim that women spend three-fourths of the yearly earnings for the maintenance of home and family. Since women wield such a powerful influence, would it not be well to ask yourselves the question: In my expenditures am I cooperatively minded? GOP bless you women of the Relief Society for your labors in caring for the poor, the sick and unfortunate, for your loyal support in carrying forward the Church Security Plan. This is the spirit of cooptween individuals; among races and eration.