The Woman Smoker By Virginia B. Jacobsen WITH the astounding increase of women smokers during the past ten years, we cannot help wondering why so many women have taken up the habit in spite of so many rational arguments against it. A few years ago, certain tobacco companies appealed to woman's vanity by their advertisements "to reach for a cigarette instead of a fattening sweet". By capitalizing on woman's desire for slab-like figures, their cigarette sales leaped to unbelievable proportions almost over night. The question is often asked, "Do women smoke because they really like it?' For our own information we have asked some twenty women why they smoke. It is interesting to note that not one of those queried admitted that they smoked because they like it. They wanted to appear good sports, or it seemed sociable, some did it because it was forbidden by parents or teachers, but most of them thought that it was the smart thing to do. It is encouraging to note that several older women, in positions where they have occasion to observe youth in general activities, state that many girls who have smoked are quitting for various reasons. One young woman who had smoked for years said that she had quit smoking. "To prove to myself that I could stop if I really wanted to, I decided to stop smoking for six weeks. During that time when I was around my friends who smoked, I realized how offensive I must have smelled to others. It so disgusted me that I decided never to smoke again, and I have not touched cigarettes for two years. I value my personal attractiveness too highly to allow any unpleasant odor to detract. We shun people with halitosis, B. O., or any other repulsive odor. Why should anyone tolerate the nauseating odor tobacco leaves clinging to the breath, hair, and clothes of the smoker? Any girl who smokes and believes that she is deceiving others is only deceiving herself." A GROUP of college students discussing smoking one day, brought forth some interesting points of view. "I decided that I couldn't afford to smoke any more. I was spending more than enough to keep me in silk stockings, and I never seem to have enough stockings." Said another, "That's one reason I quit. When I realized that I could have about seven good hats, or three dresses, or seven pairs of shoes, or scads of accessories with the money I was spending on smokes, I decided to quit." "You are right about the expense," said another ex-smoker, "but the thing that made me stop was something else. When I realized that I was becoming a slave to a mere habit, that I could not finish a three hour exam but had to hand my paper in unfinished because I had to have a smoke, I decided that it was time I quit smoking. You should see the difference in my marks now that I can finish my exams." "I stopped smoking because I was so fed up with dodging mother and dad and my kid brother for fear they would smell my breath and know that I had been smoking. I felt like a sneak thief every time I went home. If anything was said about 376 it or anyone acted suspicious, I had to pretend that it was because the other girls had been smoking. I feel like an honest woman once again since I quit." MANY medical authorities firmly believe that there are decided ill effects resulting from this unwholesome habit. The startling increase of the cigarette habit among women in recent years has brought about some study of the matter by the medical profession, but perhaps not as extensive study as its importance demands. While some very strong statements have been made by some of these investigators, we prefer to remain silent on the subject until more scientific evidence has been brought forth. Tobacco companies themselves admit in their advertising that tobacco is irritating in several ways. We do not have to go farther than the radio or magazines in our homes to hear and read claims that the injurious elements have been removed from this brand or that. This brand "Does not get on the nerves", that brand "Does not irritate the throat", another brand "gives you a lift". There are countless drugs which will give a "lift" to your tired heart and nerves and muscles, but even the heavy smoker would not recommend using them. And yet, tobacco tends to induce an uncontrollable desire for it just as many drugs do. ATHLETES training for competitive events are forbidden the use of tobacco. If it were not harmful to the body why would those seeking physical perfection and super endurance be so restricted? If tobacco soothed the nerves and quieted them instead of deadening them, athletes under great stress would be RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE helped by it. Any stimulant, which puts an added strain upon the heart and nervous system by forcing it to pep up when it is fatigued, is injurious. IT is the general consensus of opinion among the medical profession that smoking may tend to irritate the sensitive tissues of the lips and throat, and in time prove a factor in development of cancer of those parts of the body. As one case helping to prove this supposition, they cite the case of General Ulysses S. Grant who died of cancer of the lip. It was felt at that time as now, that his cancerous condition was perhaps due to his constant smoking. It is interesting to note that cancer of the lip, tongue and throat is rarely found in women, but is usually confined to men. With the increase of smoking among women, it will be important to note, a few years hence, if there is an increase of mouth cancer among women smokers. If there is the slightest possibility that smoking might help to induce cancer, it is reasonable that the finer, more sensitive tissues of women could more easily become affected by such irritation. Any woman who will take up smoking with even the remotest possibility of its producing cancer, is foolish indeed. RECENTLY there appeared in the Believe It or Not column of the newspapers, a picture of a resident of Tampa, Florida, who during the past sixty-five years has smoked an average of ten cigars a day, or a total of 237,000 cigars. Consider what this one man could have done for himself or the world with the vast amount of money he has sent up in smoke. He could have endowed a university, or a hospital THE WOMAN SMOKER for crippled children; established a research fellowship which would have helped to make the world a better place in which to live; collected a fine library; educated several future Edisons or probable Metropolitan Opera stars. This case, of course, is extreme, but it illustrates the vast amount of money spent on tobacco that might be put to better use. "In the light of the great array of accumulating facts as to the wasteful, destructive, degenerating 377 effects of tobacco, it is inconceivable that any woman with a love for life and with a conception of her duty to her family, her fellow men, to the world, and to her God, can continue to smoke." "We make this solicitous appeal to woman to seek to maintain her beauty, charm, and attractiveness, and forever to resist any desecration of her fair body temple, which is to her and her children one of the greatest gifts of God."