From the Ends of the Earth By Vesta P. Crawford "Here in my varied garden, Row on row and bed by bed, The flowers of all nations In gorgeous bloom are spread." FROM the ends of the earth northward and southward, east and west, flowers have been assembled to beautify the American garden. From far-off mountain tops and distant lonely swamp lands; from foreign deserts and alien meadows have come the radiant blossoms to meet together in cultivation. America has been called the melting pot of the world because so many nations have contributed to build its commonwealth. "From afar, gracious Lord, thou hast gathered thy flock," says the beloved hymn. And yet the nationalities of people within our borders are few when compared to the multitudes of flower families represented. Europe and Asia, Africa and Australia, the Far East, and even the polar regions and the islands of the sea have sent us rare blossoms that bloom as if long ago they had forgotten their native homes. Even our most familiar garden flowers are descended from plants older than the pyramids of Egypt, older than the Indian ruins of Peru and Mexico. Do you know that the tri-colored pansy, the gorgeous dahlia, the bright nasturtium, the tulip and the zinnia, and even the geranium, as we know them now, are not native to our shores but have descended through a long line of alien ancestors? On any day, in fall or spring, or summer, you may walk in an American garden and see the blossoms that have been brought from the ends of the earth. You may take a world tour in your own backyard. IT is very interesting to know that a large and varied group of flowers come to us from the shores of the Mediterranean Sea, from the historic countries that border the waters once called "The Great Sea." One cannot mention that sea without thinking of great events of history that have occurred in the land "roundabout." There in olden days came the ancient Aryans from the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AMERICAN POND LILIES IN THE HIGH MOUNTAINS "cradle of the race" in the mountains to the east! There, it is said, the walls of Troy were built; there flourished the art of Greece and the splendor of Rome; and there, on the borders of that sea, Jesus lived, and in Mediterranean countries his disciples carried the Gospel message. It is from the shores of the Great Sea that the snapdragons of our garden (Antirrhinuim majis), and calendula, carnations, candytuft, and stocks and wallflowers and Centaurea (bachelor buttons) have come. Ancient Egypt has sent us fragrant mignonette in blossoms of red and white and the tall callas with a flower cup of smoothest creamy velvet. Palestine is the home of the gorgeous cyclamen which we raise indoors, and from the Holy Land come also tulips and hyacinths, the narcissus and daffodils and gladiolus. The crocus is of Chaldea, that land across the desert from Palestine where two great rivers, the Tigris and the Euphrates, empty their waters into the Persian Gulf. The hollyhock has for ages decorated the lonely ravines of the land of Syria and Henry Van Dyke tells us that the valleys are like "an embroidered sash of bloom laid across the sackcloth of the desert." The Rose of Sharon (Althea syriacus) is a native of the Holy Land, particularly abundant in the rugged canyons that slash the blue ranges beyond Jordan. FROM South Africa come the crimson and scarlet blossoms of amaryllis and the pelargoniums, parents of the familiar pot plant that we call the geranium. Not so well known are the mesembryanthemums, purple and bright red and golden orange, and the Montbretias, (Tritonia), which are relatives of the iris and bear blossoms of red and pink and tawny yellow. Every year some new bloom from the farthest point of Africa is brought into America and planted in our gardens. CHRYSANTHEMUMS are of the Far East, the national flowers of Japan where they are grown in great diversity of form and color. Gardenias, those most exotic flowers, come from China, and many poppies, too, are oriental. It must not be thought, however, that all our adopted flowers come to us directly from the lands of their nativity. Some traveled strange paths and were long cultivated in Germany or Holland or France or some other European country before they were brought westward across the Atlantic. PRIMROSES seem to be typically English and of these flowers the poet Wordsworth wrote: "A primrose by a river's brim A yellow primrose was to him And it was nothing more." But some primroses come from Asia and from the mountains of continental Europe. Primrose elatior, the English primrose, is yellow. Snowdrops and some violets are English and the pansy there is called "heartsease." Certain varieties of daisies grow in England, too. It was Bliss Carman, the Canadian poet, who wrote these lines about daisies: "The bobolinks rallied them up from the dell, The orioles whistled them out of the wood; And all of their saying was, 'Earth, all is well!' And all of their dancing was, 'Life, thou art good.'" 383 SOUTH AMERICA has sent us a varied measure of rich blossoms, Portulaca (grandiflora) and canna (iridiflora); velvety gloxinias from Brazil and petunias from Argentina. Tigridia, the tiger flower, which resembles both the iris and the lily, is older than the Aztecs who treasured it because its bulbs were delicious to eat. The nasturtium, one of the very oldest of our flowers, is from Mexico and South America. There it flourished when the Mayan empire was at the height of its glory. Ageratum and cosmos and marigolds and poinsettia are from Mexico, and perhaps, also, the gorgeous tuberose. IT may be that the Mexican ancestor of our garden zinnias might find difficulty in recognizing the flowers that are his posterity. Certainly the first zinnias were not so double and so intricately petaled and strangely colored as our modern blossoms. And dahlias, too, have followed a road of change. A Spaniard saw the small crimson flowers in the mountains of Mexico and he took the seeds to his homeland and planted them in his garden. Then dahlias were grown in Germany and France and England and finally brought to the United States. It is a strange long road, a path of mystery, sometimes, that the flowers have traveled to come at last into our American gardens. If the mind, that rules the body, ever so far forgets itself as to trample on its slave, the slave is never generous enough to forgive the injury, but will rise and smite the oppressor.?Longfellow. Everyone can tell when the moon is full, but it takes a conference of scientists and doctors to define when a man is.?Canadian White Ribbon Tidings. The man who follows Booze as a hobby will have Poverty as a Playmate.?"Cobbers."