A Daughter Remembers Her Father By Lorene Pearson day living most absent people are quickly forgotten; if a personality does survive for any length of time at all, we think of him or her as an outstanding person. But when a man is remembered, vividly, seventy years after his death, we cannot do otherwise than credit Heber C. Kimball as having been a most remarkable individual. Mary Margaret Kimball Moffatt was only six years old when her father died, yet to listen to her as she recalls him for you, one would think he. Had just stepped out of the room. | NDER the pressure of everywrt was it, I wondered, that so impressed those who knew him? What quality did he possess that he lives today? Puzzled by these questions I asked for an interview with Mary Moffatt, affectionately known to her family and friends as Aunt May. She lives with her daughter and son-in-law, Mr. And Mrs. W. L. Quayle, in Laramie, Wyoming. There, in a living room that spoke in its arrangement, its choice of furniture and lovely house plants, of still another vivid and dynamic personality, I waited for Mary Moffatt. As I waited I could not help feeling that the daughter and the granddaughter, both of whom I already had had the privilege of knowing, someway suggested the vitality and splendid exuberance of Heber C. Kimball. I knew from the biography by Orson F. Whitney and from his own utterances in the Journal of Discourses and elsewhere, that this pioneer leader of early Utah had been a man of immense energy and vision, and that he had been endowed, not only with these attributes, but also with a strong feeling for detail and orderliness?an unusual combination of diverse traits. But perhaps this explains, at least partly, his own achievements, and the very special type of personalities that he seems to have bequeathed to his descendants, at least all of those whom I have met. AND when I saw the charming, white-haired daughter, walk steadily across the floor to grasp my hand, quite as if she weren't 76 and had not been blind for 30 years, J knew that there would be more than the memory of Heber Kimball to play a part in recalling him; there would be also the reverberation of a dominant will to overcome all obstacles. Then, quite as if we had just been talking of her father Aunt May responded to my questions with an instant smile and said, "It seems as if I might just have finished prayer with him. I remember now, particularly, the time he had me kneel by a chair with my brothers and mother. He prayed as if he were talking to God and that God was right in the room. I was so impressed with this feeling that I looked around to see if He were there." Again and again Mary Moffatt referred to this special consciousness that her father was intimate with the Almighty. '""He seemed to open his heart to God and he was always rewarded." The same intimacy that he had with God he seemed to achieve with all with whom he came in contact. There was no person too insignificant, no problem too trivial, to which he did A DAUGHTER REMEMBERS HER FATHER not give his full attention, and, if asked, his best advice. This was true not only ih the growing community of Salt Lake City, but within his own large family. "All father's children," Mary Moffatt volunteered, "had Great love and reverence for him." Mary Margaret Kimball was but six when her father died, yet she can recall him quite as if seventy years had not elapsed. And not only did he talk to them singly, but often he felt called upon to lecture all of them upon conduct, that they might develop a foundation for action that would carry them far in good living. On one occasion, his daughter recalls, he found a pin in the street. Bringing it in, he assembled his families and talked to them of how it was made, and although small, should never be thrown carepersistence in teaching the children 359 lessly away. The habit of thrift, of using every scrap of material goods that was one's portion in this world to the very best advantage, this was his constant emphasis. AND he was the very embodiment of what he taught. Mary Margaret, although she was a very little girl, can remember so well the adobe houses he had built with the row of linden trees planted along the street and the sound of water running in the ditches; but better yet she can remember the neat garden, tilled so carefully by Father Tucker under the supervision of Heber Kimball, and the orderliness with which the storehouse was kept. She can remember taking her little pail and go-, ing to Father Tucker to have him unlock the room where the molasses was kept; he would turn the spigget in the barrel and give her just her portion. ? Everything was handled in this way. Each received his allotment and no more. And he was a big enough man that this rule applied also outside the walis of his own domain. When there was a great famine in the valley one drouth year, he, owning the flour mill, put his family on strict rations and gave away tons of flour to the needy. He was able to see the necessity of considering oneself a part of a whole community, not merely of a small segment like one's family. TIED up with this feeling for proportion and generosity was his belief in the necessity of hard work for every individual. "Just as if it were yesterday," the white-haired daughter said, "I can hear him say, 'the things you have to work for you value'."", Then she told of how industriously her mother worked, how. All of the wives worked, and of their 360 in their care to learn the discipline of labor. Mary Margaret can remember arranging peach halves on a shingle, placing them in the sun, watching them until they were dry and stored away for winter use. UT there was also gayety?in good proportion. Heber Kimball, and other leaders in the Church, had reserved long benches in the old Salt Lake Theatre for their families. The little girl can remember going with her mother. She does not particularly recall any of the plays, she was too young for that, but she does remember an amusing incident connected with attendance. Daniel H. Wells used to sit on his bench nearby, and invariably he brought a bag of candy that he divided up among the kiddies who sat around him. That was a characteristic of all the early Church leaders, and of Heber Kimball in particular?an interest in children. Often the tall, busy pioneer would stop in the street to talk earnestly with a child. "And how important it made us feel,' Mary Margaret said. "I think this attention did more to keep us from doing mischief than anything else. We knew he regarded us with the same consideration as grown-ups and we, respected the responsibility he put' upon us in. This way." Brigham Young also had this deep interest in children. Mary Margaret remembers running along the street with a group of playmates quite a distance from home. The President stopped in the midst of them and said, putting his hand on Mary's head, "I know whose little girl you are. I could tell by those dark brown eyes that you are a Kimball." Of course, Mary Moffatt does not remember the grand balls of those early days, she was too young to attend, but she does remember hearRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ing her mother, Christeen Golden, say sO many times in later years that the happiest days of her life were those she had spent in Salt Lake City with the theatre and balls and dinner parties and a best silk dress. So strong was her attachment to the MARY MARGARET KIMBALL MOFFATT past that in the years that followed, no matter what vicissitudes were her lot, she cleaned herself up every afternoon, and put on a white apron to replace the colored one of the morning?just as she had done when her husband lived. CHRISTEEN GOLDEN, as her daughter remembers her, was a neat, refined, cultured woman, ambitious A DAUGHTER REMEMBERS HER FATHER for her children, and devoted to Heber Kimball. She had been a dressmaker in Philadelphia at the time she first heard the gospel. She was immediately converted, because, as she always afterwards said, it was the most beautiful thing she had ever heard. But it was beyond the understanding of her people; and they could not comprehend why she would leave them and the settled East, to emigrate to the wild West. However, she had the courage of her convictions and gathered to Nauvoo; there she first heard Heber Kimball preach and her faith was not only strengthened a thousand fold, so real was his message, but she found a man to whom she could give her respect. The lasting devotion of Christeen Golden, in common with the other wives could be not better assured than by stating that none of them ever remarried after his death. It was a sad and terrible thing, the death of Heber Kimball, for it broke up his large family and scattered them to far places. Mary Martgaret was ill with pneumonia at the time her father passed away, but she was carried in to him that last day and, in his usual way he talked to her and advised her to accomplish something in her life if she would be happy. His was the first funeral to 361 be held in the yet unfinished Tabernacle. It was a day of clouds and rain. The wives marched in the downpour to the Tabernacle with the coffin and afterwards to the place where he was to be buried. Great crowds thronged the streets and Temple grounds and the cemetery. Mary Margaret was carried to the services. Most vividly she remembers her own grief and the rain but more strikingly yet the end of the 'services in the open. The rain suddenly ceased, and over the new grave a rainbow circled the sky like a halo. Later, Christeen Golden and her boys and little girl moved to Bear Lake to live. But Heber C. Kimball was never forgotten. Several of the wives regularly visited Christeen, and her daughter can remember that years after the husband's death these women would talk and laugh by the hour. They would recall jokes of Heber C. Kimball, ways he had, even the very words he used, just as if he had stepped out of the room not a moment before. PERHAPS no better phrase could sum up the personality of this man than a remark Aunt May often remembers her mother making. "I respected him for he was a man of God." The ingredients of health and long life, are great temperance, open air, easy labor, and little care ?Sir P. Sidney. The building of a perfect body crowned by a perfect brain is at once the greatest earthly problem and grandest hope of the race?Dio Lewis. Health is so necessary to all the duties, as well as pleasures of life, that the crime of squandering it is equal to the folly?Johnson. To become a thoroughly good man is the best prescription for keeping a sound mind in a sound body.?Bowen.