Unusual Mothers.

Of Pocatello Stake. 

Mary Calmull was born April 19, 1857, in Gravely, Cambridgeshire, England. She married Thomas Chandler, September 17, 1874, at Gravely, England. Was baptized into the Church June 15, 1876, in Ely, Cambridgeshire, England, and confirmed the same day. Sister Chandler is the mother of nineteen children—ten boys and nine girls. She left England June, 1879, and arrived in Logan, July of the same year. She was sealed in the Logan temple to her husband, and they had ten children sealed to them the same day (Nov. 28, 1895). She joined the Relief Society in 1881. For a short time they lived in Pocatello, Idaho, then removed to Tilden where they lived for about thirteen years and helped to build the new Church there by saving Sunday eggs; then they moved back to the Pocatello Second ward, and Sister Chandler is at the present a teacher in the Relief Society, where she enjoys her labors. She visits the sick and helps all she can in the great work. With the exception of rheumatism in her feet, her health is good. Sister Chandler has now ten children living and thirty-seven grandchildren.

Of North Weber Stake. 

Hannah Bright Ritchie was the daughter of John Bright and Sarah Webb Bright, was born January 1, 1840, at Walden, Cambridgeshire, England. She was baptized a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when eight years of age by Elder Orson Hyde, at Council Bluffs.

At an early age she crossed the plains with her parents, by ox team. At Garden Grove she had the sad misfortune of losing her mother through death. This left her with the care of four children. The father married again at Winter Quarters after which the lonesome journey to the Valleys of the Mountains was resumed. On the 2nd of February, 1857, she was married to James Ritchie in the Endowment House, by President Brigham Young. She is the mother of eighteen children, there being twins three times. Eleven of her children are living. Much of Sister Ritchie's education has been acquired in life's school of experience. For years she has been associated with the Relief Society. At the present time she is in fair health, is bright and active and lives solely for the happiness of her children, grandchildren and friends.

JANE McCOWAN READ. 
Of Juab Stake. 

Jane McCowan Read was born in Liverpool, England, September 27, 1840. She emigrated to America with her parents in the year 1854, coming on to Utah the same year. Her father died in St. Louis, Missouri, of cholera, leaving her mother with three children. Jane came to Nephi when fifteen years old with Brother Thomas Wright, and lived in his family until she married Winyard Whitby at the age of 16 years. From this union there was one child, a son. When he was six months

258 .

old, Mr. Whitby left the Church and went to California, leaving his wife and child in Nephi. In 1858 she married Robert Read, and from this union there were sixteen children—ten sons and six daughters—seven of these being born at three births. She went through all the hardships of pioneer life in Nephi, living there until the year 1899, when they moved to Idaho where most of their family had gone. She died in 1914. She was an honest and industrious woman and a faithful Latter-day Saint.

Of North Weber Stake. 

Catherine A. Garden-Kenley was born September 16, 1873, in Aberdeen, Scotland, and is the mother of seventeen children—the last were twins, born two years ago. Of this number eleven are living. Sister Kenley heard and embraced the gospel in her native country, after which she and her husband were very desirous of gathering to Zion where they could receive the many blessings enjoyed by the Saints. Upon the eve of their departure, however, Sister Kenley was taken suddenly ill and was unable to go.

It was decided, therefore, that her husband precede her with two of the children, and that she and the other two would follow later, which she was able to do in four months, through the administration of the elders and the blessings of the Lord in preserving her life which hung as by a thread for many weeks. She bears many wonderful testimonies of God's goodness toward her, and has always been willing, when able, to do her bit in rolling on the work of the Lord. At present Sister Kenley enjoys good health. She lives in the Ogden Tenth Ward, is an active member of the Relief Society, and being blessed with an unusual voice takes great pleasure in the song service which she renders the ward choir of which she is a member.

Guidance of Children. 
By Lucy Wright Snow.

"Methinks God must be oft dismayed, 
Hearing how much our lips have prayed, 
Seeing the little that we do 
To make the prayers we pray come true."

What is prayer? Is it necessary for a child to be taught to pray? How shall I teach my child to pray? Prayer is a wireless message to God, and must be sent under proper conditions, or it will never reach its destination. What are the conditions and how shall we bring the child into a mental attitude to meet them? To get results, he must learn: Faith, Reverence, Consistency, Humility, Sincerity.

Faith is power. It is the power that controls the worlds, and the foundation of all righteousness, therefore it is necessary to begin by teaching it, but about the only way to teach a child to have faith is for his parents and teachers, by their good example and right living, to lead him to have faith in them and in all mankind. Parents should show him by word and deed that they give him everything he asks them for, that their wisdom tells them is right for him to have, and that they also give him many things that he does not ask for, because they love him and know when he tries to be a good child. They may also explain to him why mother does not give the baby a hammer and a mirror at the same time, even though he might cry for them. Let his environment be so carefully selected and his parents be so fair and just to all their fellow beings, as to inspire in him a confidence that will be faith-promoting and that will grow and ripen into faith and belief in God. Parents can do much toward promoting this principle by being alert with the power of suggestion and in showing their own faith, the fact that he must also trust God, must not be overlooked. This point may be nicely illustrated to a child by the following story: A great drought covered a certain part of the country and the people were praying God to send rain lest their crops all die. At one of the prayer meetings a little girl was seen to be carrying

260 .

an umbrella. This fact afforded amusement to some of her elders and they asked her why she brought her umbrella, to which query she replied: "Why, so I won't get wet when God sends the rain."

Parents are directly responsible for the religious development of their children. While religion is inborn, it is one thing that seems not to develop spontaneously, thus showing how responsible parents are, that their children be led to an understanding of the gospel and this responsibility dates back to our first parents. An understanding of all truth then seems to come little by little with nurture and experience and the first and most important step toward unfolding the plan of salvation is for the child to learn to pray, and much conscientious thought should be devoted to methods of teaching it effectively, for each child should be taught in the way that will appeal to him, in order to produce the best results on such an important subject. Every mother should know what the Scriptures teach us concerning pre-existence, namely: That every child born into this world had a knowledge of the gospel while in the pre-existent state, but lost that knowledge on coming to earth, that he might regain it by his own effort, thereby working out his own salvation, and he does gradually regain it by his own effort, but he can receive valuable assistance and guidance from his parents and teachers in attaining this end and through them, he can learn how to approach the great Giver who said: "If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally," etc. (Jas. 1:5).

The first important step in teaching him to pray after having taught him Faith, is: REVERENCE. Let the little one be alone with mother, away from noise or confusion. He should kneel, if convenient, and be comfortable while in the attitude of prayer, because if he is not comfortable he will not be able to concentrate his mind, and part of the sacredness of the moment will be lost. Teach him that he is going to talk to God, which is a most sacred thing; that he must be clean in body and his mind should be in a state of peace and composure. He will not be able to learn to whom he prays until the age when reason begins to develop (about four years), at which time he should learn something of the personality of God, that he is a personal Being and that he lives in heaven, e. g., "Our Father which art in heaven." CONSISTENCY. The child should learn that it is of greater importance to acknowledge God and thank him for what he has, namely, for his health, his parents, friends, playthings, etc., than to ask for favors. GUIDANCE OF CHILDREN. 261 also that he should use his own intelligence and effort to its full extent to make his prayers come true and to expect God to help him to do his own work, not to do it for him. God loves the prayers of little children, but it is the duty of parents to teach them to be consistent in what they expect of him, and to guide them to an understanding of, "Thy will be done." If the child does not receive what he has asked for, nor the peace and satisfaction that should come to him as a testimony that God has heard his prayer, suggest to him that perhaps he has not conformed to spiritual law in his prayers, he is not "in tune" or that God knows that it would not be wise for him to have that which he has asked for; perhaps he has not been sincere nor forgiving, or not approached God with sufficient humility; perhaps he prayed selfishly; and teach him that if he approaches God with reverence, in faith and trusting, having charity and forgiveness in his heart for all men—all these things—then he will invariably be satisfied with the result of his prayer and will be able to feel, "Thy will be done." The child must learn that God is the great Giver of all good and so Jesus taught us, "Give us this day our daily bread." He cannot pray this without acknowledging the source of all blessings and in it he learns that he can never become perfect until able to acknowledge God. HUMILITY. To be humble, one must be forgiving, therefore, "Forgive us our trespasses," etc. Teach the child that the more humble he is, the more he will be endowed with the spirit of forgiveness and that he need not expect his prayers to be answered unless he approach God in humility, willing to forgive the trespasses of others. "Lead us" suggests our need of guidance, and then how important in these perilous times, "not into temptation" and "deliver us from evil," for is not the adversary working overtime these days tempting us to go astray? Are not these the days spoken of as those in which Satan shall deceive the very elect? Then comes the all-important, "Thine be the glory," for without this there will be no humility and without humility, no prayer could reach heaven. When Jesus said, "After this manner pray ye," he did not mean that we should utter these words exclusively, he meant this prayer as a pattern and, carefully analyzed, it will be found to cover all the principles of truth. These are the principles necessary to conform to, as Jesus gave them to us, and the earlier in life they can be brought to the child's understanding, the more valuable will he be as an instrument in God's hands to further his 262 . work. Having taught him these principles, let the child apply them as best he can in his prayers, not conforming to any set type of prayer, lest he lose sincerity and his prayers become a matter of form. Such prayer as the old rhyme, "Now I lay me down to sleep," is undesirable for the reason that it becomes a sing-song after a very few repetitions, and then the third line, "If I should die before I wake" is a very poor sleep suggestion to a child not able to comprehend its full meaning.

As a rule, rhyme prayers are not to be encouraged, but if for any special reason, the mother may feel that her child has need of such a prayer, let it be one of good suggestion, e. g.: "Father whom I cannot see, Look down from heaven on little me; Let angels through the darkness spread Their influence around my bed, And keep me safe, for I am The Heavenly Shepherd's little lamb; Teach me to do as I am told, And help me to be as good as gold." 

SINCERITY. Spoken prayers are necessary as well as unuttered prayers, but they must be sincere. While an unuttered prayer or sincere desire may reach God and be answered, God requires spoken prayer, for did he not say, "After this manner pray ye"? He has also given us other special forms of prayer, as sacrament prayer, prayer for baptism, etc. It is well to have a prayer in one's heart, and it will be understood by God, but it is not enough. The child must learn to express himself to God. Show him how God speaks to us by signs and miracles and expects us to speak to him in acknowledgment of these blessings. Encourage him to pray in secret for these are the most effective of all prayers. In secret prayer he will be able to throw aside all fear and self-consciousness, thereby becoming more sincere and there is much accomplished when a child has learned to seek the Lord spontaneously. He will enjoy the 34th chapter of Alma, which treats of secret prayer, and may form the habit of beginning each day with a little secret prayer. It is the one that is all his own. Teach him appropriate prayers for beginning and closing day, opening and closing meeting, prayer for sick, for the authorities of our Church and for heads of nations; our soldiers. In blessing the food, let him mention the meal, as: Bless the lunch or breakfast. It will teach him to observe, and make the prayer more impressive. Let him always ask a bless-

ing on his food. It is an excellent habit for a child to bow his little head without being told, when served to his soup as he comes in from school, and say, "Heavenly Father, I thank thee for this soup; bless it in the name of Jesus. Amen." That moment of giving himself to God in peace and quiet will rest him as much as a nap, as well as to teach him faith and confidence in God. To illustrate the necessity of sincerity in prayer, note the following remarkable experience and testimony that came into the life of one of our Latter-day Saint women. She was the mother of three children, two boys and a girl, the latter a most beautiful child in appearance and of lovely disposition. When seven years of age, the little girl was taken ill and died; the father was away at the time and the mother nearly died of grief. She prayed often to God to give her strength to bear this separation from her beloved child, but her grief was so bitter that she became melancholy and refused to be comforted and soon she began to fade like a withered flower until she became a nervous wreck. She could not sleep without taking medicine to induce rest and at last she feared she would lose her reason. One night she arose from her bed and disposed of her sleeping tablets, also a bottle of laudanum which she had at hand, lest in a moment of distraction she might end her life with the drug. After worrying and tossing about in her bed all night in vain efforts to sleep, and when nearing the point of collapse, she knelt down by her bed and with a broken heart and contrite spirit cried: "O God, help me, for I cannot endure this any longer." Instantly there came an answer: "Why, my dear daughter, I would have helped you long ago if you had asked me." This was the first of her prayers that had reached its destination, the first that had been uttered with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, in faith and trusting confidence. References on prayer: Jas. 5:15; Book of Alma, chap. 34; Matt. 26:39; hymn, "Prayer is the Soul's Sincere Desire."

MOTHERHOOD. By Flora S. Home. The purest joy the heart can feel, The strongest bond that love doth seal, The deepest truth that life can teach, The greatest height the soul doth reach.

Fat and Fifty.

The most vital and encouraging phase of the war necessity which demands less food rations and especially less fat-forming food materials is that which will compel fat people to rid themselves of superfluous foods and fats, while not injuring those people who often eat too much and keep thin by carrying it around. To most American women the appalling rapidity with which fat is taken on at middle age is a problem which neither religion nor science solves; and yet the men or women who permit themselves to become overweight invite disease in at the door, make death a constant terror, and rob life of its best and most fruitful period. Women who pass the age of fifty should have twenty-five years more of healthful, vigorous activity. Released from the direct cares and burdens of motherhood a woman at this period of her life should be at liberty to get out into the world and achieve many public and private triumphs which were denied her during her years of active child-bearing. Yet into these years of wonderful possibilities stalks the ever-present tendency of that human body which is fitted up with active internal organs, to lay on fat and still more fat. Fat is unbecoming, a burden to its possessor, and a constant menace to health and long life. You hear women say they eat very little and that water fattens them. Shucks! They know better and you know better. It is true that they have inside of them a magnificent digestive factory that converts every ounce of superfluous food into fatty tissue; and then when the system can no longer make fat it makes trouble. Varicose veins, rheumatism, kidney trouble, torpid liver, cancerous stomach and fatty degeneration of the heart, all join hands with excessive food supplies to make a woman miserable and quite unable to do her work. Fat people need not eat much to keep fat, but they certainly ate altogether too much when they were getting fat. What are you going to do about it? Keep on being fat and getting fatter? Well, that is for you to say. How can one get thin and keep thin? Simplest way in the world. Eat only enough to keep the body properly nourished, of material that will not make fat, and the miracle is accomplished. All the religion in the world and all the science in the world won't avail you if you have no will power to stop eating fat-producing foods that crowd the body with superfluous tissue. There are many forms of diet recommended. One of them I saw tried was an exclusive diet of the skimmest of skim milk and rice for three months. Another form of diet is to live on meat and vegetables without butter or grease or any kind of sweets. Fat people are usually troubled with short breath. They have weak livers and these belong always in the constipated class; such would do well to stop eating flour bread and use corn or rice in their various forms in place of wheat bread. The body requires just so much blood and muscle-building material, and it can be obtained from any of the grains mixed plentifully with vegetables and fruits and meat once a day, if these are rightly proportioned to the human system. "The world's greatest food scientist was an Italian, born in the fifteenth century. He lived far into the sixteenth century. He was one hundred and three years of age when he died. In his fortieth year he had been given up to die by his physicians. The verdict of his physicians came to him as a shock. He awakened to the dangers before him and began to study life's deepest and most mysterious problem—that of living scientifically. "Luigi Cornaro was the name of this man, a native of Italy. He controlled his fate. He lengthened his life by more than sixty years. "If a modern scientist were to discover a definite, dependable means of more than doubling the length of human life, he would be acclaimed as a great genius. "And yet Cornaro, this renowned Italian, made that particular discovery more than five hundred years ago. He learned that the flesh and blood machine that we call the body is created entirely from the food and drink which is put into the stomach. He began to study the cause of disease at its source. "The amount of food that he consumed daily would not make a single square meal for the average healthy adult. He considered it a day's nourishment.

ered twelve ounces of solid food sufficient for "His life story indicates further to an extraordinary degree, the value of a yearly fast. During all periods of the year, his diet was extremely light. But for a considerable period previous to the appearance of the new crop of grapes, his abstinence from food was so extreme as to border closely on a fast. Therefore in the advanced age he had the physical advantage of a yearly fast." (From the Magazine.) 

This man's plan was adopted by the father of Thomas A. Edison, our great inventor, and is followed strictly by himself, his wife, and children. To this restricted diet Edison attributes his tremendous working capacity. In these days of war when it is a patriotic duty to save food, fat people can well take themselves in hand and save themselves discomfort and suffering while still serving their Government and the cause of humanity nobly. It really should be a disgrace to find fat people going about the streets these days. Don't you want to be fat? Then don't be. 

Mrs. Clarissa Smith Williams. 

Red Cross. 

There are always those who will endeavor to belittle the work of the Red Cross activities in France. 

"Soldiers scotch rumors regarding sale of Red Cross articles. 

"Soldiers of General Pershing's expeditionary force who, undesignedly started rumors that the American Red Cross or its representatives had been selling sweaters and other articles to the troops, are hastening to correct the false impression. A careful investigation made by the Red Cross clearly establishes the fact that there is no basis for any such charge. 

"A cablegram states that Lieutenant H. A. Deesback, of the 16th Infantry, American Expeditionary Force, has obtained the following signed copy of a letter from Oscar B. Hopkins, Co. G, 16th Infantry, to Mrs. Minerva Allison, dated February 17, 1918: 

"'I am writing a line to correct a statement regarding a letter I wrote you November 14, 1917, concerning the Red Cross. In a thoughtless moment I wrote that the Red Cross charged two prices for things they sold us; but as a matter of fact I have never known them to sell anything to anyone, as far as I know myself. I am, indeed, sorry that my thoughtlessness caused this, and I want you to show this letter to any of the Red Cross workers and offer my apologies.'" 

Nurses. 

A call has been made on the National Red Cross Association for 1,000 nurses between now and June 1. Nearly 7,000 nurses have already been supplied, but the need for more grows daily more imperative. It is estimated that 30,000 will be needed for this year. 

PARIS notes. 

"The Red Cross has now five portable laundries in operation at the base hospitals. These laundries have proved of great value to the hospitals and others are to be installed as soon as possible." 

Tobacco and the Red Cross. 

While this Society may not be the only factor in determining the following changed attitude of the Red Cross at Washington, we feel sure that our protest, which was forwarded to Senator Smoot, has received profound consideration. Washington headquarters says: "It is not the desire of the Red Cross that any individuals opposed to the use of tobacco or cigarettes should against their will take part in the furnishing of these articles to the soldiers." 

Letters to Soldiers. 

In sending out letters to soldiers, either here or in Europe, spell out proper names fully. Initials are very uncertain and often misleading. Do not use pencils. Be sure your envelopes are stout and well made. Write addresses very plainly, typewrite them if possible. Packages to be forwarded should be very carefully wrapped in heavyweight paper, canvas, or good cloth bags, with the address written on a shipping-tag and the name of the sender also on the bag. 

Insurance for Soldiers. 

It is interesting to know that more than $12,000,000 worth of insurance has been written by the Government on the lives of American soldiers, sailors, and nurses. This represents financial safety for families and dependents left at home. 

Free Delivery. 

The Government is appealing to women to exercise self-control and patriotism in carrying bundles home from stores that can be well handled; while all stores are appealed to on the "single delivery" plan. No goods will be sent home on approval, and only one delivery a day will be used. We make a personal appeal to the members of the Relief Society everywhere to help as much as they possibly can in the delivery of their own goods and to be good-natured about the new patriotic ruling. 

State Council of Defense.

The State Committee has completed the organization of County Committees throughout the state of Utah, and all are now busily engaged in co-ordinating the various activities of women's war work locally. Educational and Child Welfare features are particularly well knit, and the work is progressing favorably throughout. Use of the Telephone. Patriotic women are urged to assist in cutting out social conversations on the telephone during the busy hours of the morning. This will include mostly the young people of the house as the older women are too busy in the morning to bother with telephone gossip. However, we make the appeal to all our sisters to join in this movement and thus do a little towards lightening the burdens of the telephone business. Janette A. Hyde. This month we are fortunate in the presentation of the following articles: MAKING THE GARDEN HELP FEED THE FAMILY. By Dr. M. C. Merrill. Horticulturist, Utah Agricultural College. The problem of making the garden feed the family this year as it has never done before is vibrating with interest and teeming with possibilities. It is a problem worthy of the best talents and the most earnest efforts that we can muster into the service. Merely to plant a garden is not sufficient. No problem worthy the name is involved in that. The real problem comes in the proper utilization of all our garden resources, for the call to the war gardens of 1918 has in it the response to the boastful challenge of starvation and it therefore means that the call must be answered in terms of thought, effort, and results. Food and hunger are in deadly combat and the momentous problem is to make food win and thus end the war. Now how shall we go about it to make the garden do its utmost to feed the family? First and foremost should come our plans in regard to the three things involved, which are: 1. The garden itself, its location, extent, and soil; 2. The crops, the varieties, and the amounts to plant; 3. The actual work of planting and caring for the garden. In other words, our problem is where to plant, what to plant, and how to plant and care for it. Just as thought precedes the act; just as a general lays plans before taking his troops into battle; and just as a definite plan is made before the house is constructed: so should the commander of the garden plan the campaign in advance of the actual operation. In our plans we will avoid the mistakes of last year. While it is a positive necessity that we increase our garden production this year, we should not rashly plow up valuable lawns, nor plant seeds in infertile ground where they will not grow or where there is not sufficient water to irrigate them. Seeds are scarce this year and must not be wasted. Turning our attention first to the garden itself, its location, extent and soil, let us consider some fundamental principles in HOME SCIENCE DEPARTMENT. 269 regard to those conditions. The location, the slope or exposure, the amount of shade are all important. If the location is on sloping ground it will be found that a southerly exposure is much earlier than a northerly one, though it requires more water. The amount of the ground shaded by neighboring trees is an important matter, especially on the smaller lots, and will have much to do with the quantities grown on a given space. To produce crops, sunshine is just as important as water, for without sunlight the materials making up the vegetable food that man eats cannot be manufactured by the plant. All too little thought is given to the size of the area on which the garden crops are to be grown. Under normal conditions there is a very definite relation between the size of the garden and the number of people it will feed. As a general thing our gardens are larger than need be and hence either garden produce or the ground goes to waste. This year we must Hooverize our gardens in every possible way. That means that every cultivated foot of ground must do its biggest bit. While even the farm garden should be cultivated intensively, that applies with double force to the small city or suburban garden. In the city the value of a unit area of land is very much greater than in the country and hence it must be utilized to the utmost. Where that is done it is simply astonishing what quantities can be produced from small areas. Valuable aids to intensive production are systems of companion cropping and succession cropping.

By companion cropping is meant that two or more crops occupy the land at the same time in alternate hills or in close proximity to each other. By succession cropping is meant planting the later crops on ground that has already produced an early crop. Our gardens bear evidence of wasteful extravagance every year in that we allow desirable weeds to become the late crop rather than plant useful and crops on the ground as soon as the early crop is harvested. Now we come to the soil. Of all areas, garden soils should probably be made the most fertile, since they are called upon for the most intensive production. Yet how often do we find them unfertilized! Many people, especially in the larger cities where manure is somewhat scarce and hard to obtain, last year planted gardens on unmanured ground and then wondered why they did not have good crops. Let me urge that every garden be heavily manured and then have the manure incorporated in the soil by plowing or spading before the seeds are planted. It would have been better to have manured and then plowed the soil in the fall, but far better do it this spring than not at all. Many soils contain so much clay that they are easily packed and baked and cannot therefore give the best results. The best thing in the world 270 . for such soils, to loosen them up, make them more workable and more productive, is a heavy application of barnyard manure incorporated into the soil. Commercial fertilizers, although they contain the plant food so necessary for plants, cannot satisfactorily take the place of manure, and especially on heavy clay soil. The second phase of our problem now demands consideration—the crops, the varieties, and the amounts to plant. Let this point be emphasized: vegetable crops vary greatly in their requirements and hence if the best results are to be obtained they must be treated differently. One of the frequent causes of disappointment with the garden is failure to recognize this fact. The garden crops are divided into two general groups, those requiring a cool season and those requiring a warm season for their major growth. The following list gives the subdivisions under each of these heads and suggests the season for each: VEGETABLE CROPS. A.