Guide Lessons. 

LESSON I. Theology and Testimony. First Week in June. 

A learned and particularly well traveled gentleman who chanced to be in the state of Utah a few weeks ago, responded to a remark in relation to the beauty and profusion of the flowers in Brighton, Utah, that nowhere in all his travels, and, by the way, travel is his business, has he ever seen such beautiful flowers as he saw while in the Holy Land. From this land of flowers, Lehi and his followers went forth to South America, their first abiding place, where the vegetation is rank and luxuriant, and all nature is featured in "the large." The inspiration of the Almighty God, coupled with innate practical sense, had led them to carry with them seed grains, that they might produce food, when they arrived in the land that they were slowly being guided to by the sure hand of Providence. Peoples who pioneer, who build up new lands, must always make agriculture fundamental. It can never cease to be of first importance to any civilization; but in a new country it must of necessity receive an emphasis out of all proportion to the emphasis placed on any other occupation or industry. Moreover, if conditions of society become unusual, the importance of agriculture is at once apparent. The present war has made the art and science of producing food the paramount industry of the whole world. Seeking for information in relation to the Jaredites and their agricultural and stock-raising pursuits, we find the following significant paragraphs in Ether 9:16, 17, 18: "And the Lord began again to take the curse from off the land, and the house of Emer did prosper exceedingly under the reign of Emer; and in the space of sixty and two years, they had become exceedingly strong, insomuch that they became exceedingly rich. "Having all manner of fruit, and of grain, and of silks, and of fine linen, and of gold, and of silver, and of precious things. 

292 . 

"And also all manner of cattle, of oxen, and cows, and of sheep, and of swine, and of goats, and also many other kind of animals which were useful for food of man. "And they also had horses and asses." Nor did they till the ground with the primitive instruments used by many peoples in earlier ages. These peoples on this Western continent had learned the art of making tools. "And they did make all manner of tools to till the earth, both to plough and to sow, and to reap and to hoe, and also to thresh. "And they did make all manner of tools with which they did work their beasts" (Ether 10:25, 26). History was young in the making, with Lehi and his little band, when we learn something definite in relation to their agricultural activities, as well as the animals which they speedily used to sustain life and further their civilization. "And it came to pass that we did begin to till the earth, and we began to plant seeds; yea, we did put all our seeds into the earth, which we had brought from the land of Jerusalem. And it came to pass that they did grow exceedingly; wherefore we were blessed in abundance. "And it came to pass that we did find upon the land of promise, as we journeyed in the wilderness, that there were beasts in forests of every kind, both the cow and the ox, and the ass and the horse, and the goat and the wild goat, and all manner of wild animals; which were for the use of man" (I Nephi 18:24, 25). Lehi's people seemed to rejoice greatly when they discovered that such grains as wheat, corn and barley would grow and flourish in their new found home. Nor do we wonder at this rejoicing, for all persons know that these grains are staples. Wheat, corn and barley were known to the peoples of Bible lands. Oats appear not to be mentioned either in the Bible or Book of Mormon.

Rye is mentioned in the Bible, but the word seldom appears. However, the Nephites speak of two grains which they called neas and sheum, for which no English equivalent seems to have been available. Fruit grew in abundance, on this land, under the careful cultivation of its horticulturists. Often they speak of vineyards and grape culture. They made wine which was sometimes used for worthy purposes, but often as an aid to accomplish the most diabolical of crimes. No land is more wonderful than this land of America in the production of fruits, for all the fruits of both temperate and tropical climes are native to it, and the peoples who earlier inhabited this continent had a variety of fruit.

The wisdom of a wise policy seldom appears all at once. No doubt the protection from their enemies appeared to the Nephites the chiefest reason why they should build in communities and then go forth from these settlements and till their soil; just as in the pioneer days of Utah the people built forts in which they gathered to protect themselves from the Indians. Protection, however, is only one of the blessings afforded to people who build hamlets, towns and cities, and then go forth to their labors on the farm or in the mine, as necessity requires. All the religious, intellectual and social uplift that is a part of the life of those who live in communities is lost to those who scatter great distances and live on immense farms. Persons thus isolated can seldom gather at the church, the school, the amusement hall, and in too many instances they are without the church, the school and the amusement hall; for the simple reason that being without the community they lack also the valuable assets of community effort. That the Latter-day Saints have made history for themselves in this respect was made most noticeable in 1913, when the National Education Association met in Salt Lake City. Many excursions were made by the visitors into surrounding counties. Again and again, these men, used to school supervision, remarked: "Why, you are practically without the rural school problem; a problem that is proving most vexatious and difficult to cope with in many parts of our country." Now, the same advantage and opportunities that are ours through having grouped ourselves in settlements, were undoubtedly enjoyed in large or small measure by the Nephites. The inspired leadership of President Brigham Young, and the stalwart men and women who builded with him is the source to which we trace the superiority of our community life; and we doubt not, could we hold converse with the Nephites, that they would attribute the advantages of their community life in their agricultural districts to precisely similar sources. Another point of resemblance between our methods and their methods of agriculture, will be readily recognized when we say that there is every reason to believe that they knew and applied the science of irrigation in arid regions. In other parts, as with us, they depended on the rainfall, and were greatly distressed over a season of drought. If the Latter-day Saints are to be distinguished because of what they have contributed to the world's knowledge in relation to irrigation, what shall we say of these former-day Saints, the Nephites, who dwelt upon this continent many centuries ago?

294 .

1. Why must agriculture be a fundamental vocation of all peoples?
2. Why does a crisis or universal condition in the economic life of the people, bring the importance of agriculture immediately to the fore? Illustrate.
3. Did the peoples of the Book of Mormon know anything of the manufacture of tools to carry on their work? Quote passage in proof of contention.
4. Tell why the Nephites would rejoice greatly when they discovered that such grains as wheat, corn and barley would grow in their new found home.
5. Account for the Nephites finding the cow, horse, oxen and ass, the goat and wild goat, in the woods and forests of this country.
6. Why would you expect the inhabitants of America, if industrious, to have a great variety of fruit to eat?
7. Would the Lamanites, when nomadic, caring most for the hunt, have the fruit and grains to eat that the Nephites would?
8. Discuss the advantage coming to people who, living in agricultural districts, build communities and work together.
9. What disadvantage must be borne by persons who, cultivating farms, elect to live on these farms far away from others?
10. What practice that has distinguished the Latter-day Saints in the cultivation of the soil, was in vogue to an extent among the Nephites?

LESSON II. Work and Business. Second Week in June.

LESSON III. Genealogy. Third Week in June.

ENGLISH RACIAL HISTORY, 55 B.C. TO 1066 A.D. We have seen that the northern European nations were all descended from the Teutonic race: the Franks and Germans from the Goths, the Scandinavians, Saxons and Normans from the Northmen, and the Welsh, Irish and Scotch from the Celts, all coming down probably from the sons of Japheth. The Latin races who are descended through Togarmah, son of Gomer, son of Japheth, are essentially different from the Teutonic races, although modern historians group them all together. The Latins are excitable, erratic, artistic, and are keenly susceptible to the Catholic religion, a religion of sensuous emotionalism; the Irish, among the Celtic remnants, seem akin to the Latin in this and many other traits. On the contrary, the Teutons, that is, the Scandinavians, Germans, English, Dutch, Swiss, German and Normans, are less emotional, require a religion which appeals to mind and heart alike, and are steady, sane and reasonable. It is through the Teutonic races that the Gospel has come, heralded by the Reformation, helped by the Huguenots, Puritans and Pilgrims, finally reaching its culmination in the revelations of the Lord Jesus Christ, through the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.

Great Britain. We will now consider the racial history and general history of Great Britain which includes the countries known as England, Scotland, Ireland and Wales, from the Christian era down to William the Conqueror, 55-1600 A.D. The country was inhabited at an early period by the Celtic race, subdivided into Britons, Picts and Scots. The Welsh are descended from the Britons, the Scots and the Irish from the Picts and Scots; yet the Irish proper seem quite like a distinct people even today. The Celts are supposed to have conquered and driven out a savage race inferior to themselves in civilization and strength. About the same time that Wales was settled by the Britons, the Scots settled in Ireland, passing from there at a later period over to Scotland, where they conquered and settled up the northern part which was called after them, Scotia or Scotland. The island of Britain was known to the ancient Phoenicians who were mariners and tradespeople. The Phoenicians carried on a thriving trade with the people of Cornwall, exchanging their goods for the tin found in that region. The people of these islands were divided into different tribes, each under its own chieftain. They lived in rude earthen huts and often built their little towns on hills, raising mud walls as fortifications. Sometimes their hamlets were built upon piles raised in the marshes. When we first hear of them there was a little town life with market centers, and in the southern part of England the natives used gold coinage with a currency of iron bars or ingots. The religion of these people was pagan, with perhaps, we might say, a corrupted traditionary remnant of ancient patriarchal forms of life and worship. The priesthood were called Druids, and here as in France or Gaul, they practiced magical arts and offered human sacrifices with secret rites and ceremonies. The priest took no part in wars or politics.

Caesar's Invasion. Julius Caesar crossed the Straits of Dover from Gaul, or what is now known as France, in the year 55 B.C. He landed in Deal, England. He made no permanent conquests, but he wrote a little account of the Britons, saying that there were numerous buildings and that the people were very rich in cattle and were well skilled in driving their chariots. In 43 A.D., the Emperor Claudius took an expedition up to Britain and conquered the people of Essex and Hertfordshire, making their capital Camulodunum, now Colchester, the seat of the Roman government. The emperor returned, leaving Vespasian in command. A subsequent battle in the Welsh mountains occurred where the Celts were routed by the Romans, the Britons headed by a chief Caradoc or Caractacus, being taken prisoner. The chief was carried a prisoner to Rome, and the story is told that he wondered, after seeing the splendors of that great city, why the Roman Emperor should desire his poor island. The Roman legions finally drove out the Celtic race from England proper, confining them to Ireland, Scotland and Wales. With the establishment of a military despotism came the language of the Conqueror, but if Latin, which was established then, was the language of the Court and of the foreign officials and soldiers, the people did not adopt it to any extent, for the Celtic tongue, after all, is the basis of the French, Spanish and Portuguese languages. A certain civilization was engrafted upon the English people through this conquest.

Laws were enacted, garrisons were established, and finally some elements of civilization were introduced into these pagan islands. Caractacus and Boadicia. 43-61 A. D. The Welsh Celtic chieftain Caradoc or Caractacus routed the Romans, but was afterwards captured and taken prisoner to Rome. Several years later the Celtic Queen Boadicia whose daughter had been outraged and herself whipped by the Romans, rose up in revolt. She stormed the town of London and laid it in ashes; 70,000 Romans and strangers fell in one day. Saxon Invasions. In the third, fourth and fifth centuries the Saxon pirates invaded Britain and for years fought with the Roman conquerors. In 396 A. D. the Picts and Scots swarmed into Britain, and as the Roman troops were then needed for the advance on Gaul, the islands were left to the Celtic mercy. In the latter part of the fifth century the Jutes crossed the North Sea and conquered southern Britain. Thus, then, were the Picts and Scots on the north, the Angles and Saxons in the center, and the Jutes in the southern part of the isles. The Scandinavian invaders continued to pour forth hordes of rude conquerors on the English shores for the next four or five centuries. They were brave, invincible in war, but they were mercilessly cruel and ferocious. They hated the Christians and destroyed every evidence which the Roman legions had set up of civilization wherever their prowess was victorious. The Saxons had destroyed and driven out the Celts, and now the other Teutonic tribe from Denmark's shores endeavored to wipe out the Angles and Saxons who had gained possession of the most of England. Here for several centuries several Teutonic tribes struggled for mastery. The Jutes and Danes, the Angles and Saxons, fought each other fiercely. Finally, in the course of centuries, the exigencies of life united the three peoples into one race, who were called the Anglo-Saxons, but this was not done without a struggle. Anglo-Saxon Social Customs. The homestead was the social center of Anglo-Saxon civilization. The setheling or eorl established himself in the center of his little village or c-ethel. His retainers inhabited, each his own little croft where they lorded it over the lowlier freelings or ceorls who tilled the land and did the menial work of the village. The "freeling" was a descendant, probably, of the earliest Celtic settler. The eorl was lifted above his fellow villager, through birth and some degree of wealth. His followers held him in reverence, while his descendants were the "host leaders" or warriors who led the tribe in times of war. However, the eorl's position rested wholly on the acceptance of his fellow villagers. Every freeman had his vote and he was the foundation or unit of society. His long hair floated over a neck which had never bowed to a lord. He was called a "free-necked" man, or the weapon-man, preserving to himself the right of revenge or individual warfare, which in a primitive state of society was made necessary. There was a lower strata of villagers who were called lacf or zillicns. These were tillers of the soil, the tradesmen. Of these were slaves, war captives, debtors, criminals, children sold into bondage by parents; they thus became part of the farm live-stock of the eorl. "Mine is the calf born of my cow." The eorl himself held his position through purity of descent from the original Saxon settlers and encouraged his ambitious sons and nephews to bind themselves as comrades to the king or a neighboring chief. The chieftain gave his warriors horses, arms, and a seat in his mead or beer hall with occasional gifts from his treasury. His comrades or thegns were bound to follow him into any fight or quarrel which he chose to make. The Anglo-Saxon customs engrafted themselves upon the Scandinavian conquerors. As has been said, from the eighth to the eleventh century the Scandinavian hordes infested England and finally amalgamated with the races there. Alfred the Great. In 871 Alfred the Great, a Saxon king, ascended the English throne. The kingdom was owned practically half of it at least by the Danes. War followed war, and Alfred at last succeeded in forcing the Scandinavian armies into the northwestern part of England. Alfred was one of the most remarkable kings who ever sat upon the throne. He rebuilt London and established many cities destroyed by the Danes, rebuilt Christian churches and formed a regular militia for the defense of the kingdom. He established his laws rather upon the Mosaic code and held England, than upon the imperial edicts of Rome. He fostered education and founded the University of Oxford. He died in 901 and was succeeded by his son Edward.

a much weaker king. Malcolm, King of the Scots. Malcolm, the Scottish king, was given possession of Cumberland as a fief in the year 943. Scotland emerged as a powerful sub-monarchy about this time: early in the sixth century the Scots had migrated from Ireland settling in large numbers in Caledonia. They brought their Christian religion with them from Ireland and the leader, Fergus MacErc, founded the kingdom of Dalriada in Argyle. Later the Monk Columba, driven from Ireland, came over to Scotland and established a church and began missionary labors among the Picts who were pagans. He established a school of theology and sent missionaries clear to England and the continent, reaching over into Gaul, Switzerland, Germany and Italy. An interesting extract concerning their labors is given by a French historian as follows: "The free church of the Scots and Britons," says D'Aubigne, "did more for the conversion of central Europe than the half-enslaved Church of Rome." "The sages of Iona," says the same writer, "knew nothing of transubstantiation, or of the withdrawal of the cup in the Lord's supper, or of auricular confession, or of prayers for the dead, or tapers, or incense; they celebrated Easter on a different day from Rome; synodal assemblies regulated the affairs of the church, and the papal supremacy was unknown." Various kings succeeded each other on the Scottish throne until 954, when Malcolm died. The line of Kenneth MacAlpin ended with Malcolm the Second in 1034. It was then that the terrible tragedy of Macbeth took place. Thus we have Scotland brought down to this period. Sweyn, the First Danish King of England. A succession of English kings followed Alfred the Great, each weaker than the last. In 994 a powerful fleet under Sweyn, King of Denmark, and Olaf, King of Norway ravaged England so terribly that the Saxon King Ethelred bought his peace through a continuous tax called "danegeld." King Ethelred's weakness encouraged the Danes and they continued their invasions. In 1013 A. D. he conquered the whole of England and was crowned King of England. Now occurred an incident which had a marked effect upon English history and indeed which was the root of all surname history in Great Britain and perhaps in Europe. King Ethelred, the Saxon deposed monarch of England, took refuge in Normandy with his brother-in-law, Duke Richard the Good, forming a lasting treaty of royal friendship and exchange. Thus began a train of events important in their nature. When the Danish-English king Sweyn died in 1014, the Saxon Ethelred went back from Normandy to England. His son Edmund succeeded to the English throne in 1016, but Sweyn's son, Canute, was also reigning in the western part of England. Edmund died shortly after, and Canute seized both thrones and made himself king of all England. Canute was a very great monarch, wise, brave and resourceful. The reign of the Danish King Canute the Great over England was an important and lasting event and one which left an indelible impress on the surnames of Great Britain. The British Anglo-Saxon Danish peoples had advanced rapidly in civic arts, but in 990, during the reign of Ethelred, "the Unready," they were plunged constantly into civil war. Ethelred's son, Edward, who was the last Anglo-Saxon king, was brought up in Normandy. When he found himself, on his ascension to the English throne, beset by Earl Godwin, he called upon his Norman friends to come to his assistance and they came in shoals, thus introducing a new Scandinavian element into English life, as the Normans were originally Norsemen who had settled in Normandy and intermarried with the Franks. Civil war between the Danes and Anglo-Saxons followed on the death of Edward, and his son, Harold, was made king for a very little while, but his right was disputed by William, who was Duke of Normandy (always known as the "bastard," being the illegitimate son of Duke Robert of Normandy, called Robert, "The Devil." William's mother was a pretty washerwoman). William was, therefore, the cousin of Harold, the English king. William claimed that King Edward promised him, when he was succored in Normandy, that he, William, would be his successor because of his help in driving out the Danes; and, furthermore, William declared that Harold, the son, had sworn a solemn oath to ratify that promise. On the death of Edward, William at once sailed from Normandy with a tremendous army, and the Battle of Hastings was fought upon English soil. William the Conqueror. William who was a fierce, bloody, but splendid soldier, was resolved upon appropriating the English throne. He gathered about him an army of reckless and ambitious adventurers, noble in blood, but exhausted in purse through riotous living.

These, his whilom followers and boon companions, he won by promises of great estates and military honors when England was once conquered. It may be said that he was true to his promises. This horde of adventurers, raised by hook and by crook, a great army for those days of mercenary or hired soldiers, landed in the south of England at the port of Hastings. A fierce battle almost immediately followed, called the Battle of Hastings, that battle which was to determine the fate of England. The conflict was fierce and prolonged. The Saxon King Harold fell from an arrow wound through his eye and William was left master of the field. That very day he directed his clerks to gather about him and read the names of his brave and reckless followers, recording them on parchment for future memory and reward. He also directed that an abbey should be built on the site of the battle, and here he caused to be placed the famous and priceless roll of Norman conquerors, which list was laid upon the altar for regular remembrance in masses. William now marched upon London and was crowned in Westminster on Christmas day, 1066. The Gemot of Salisbury. No sooner was William crowned and thoroughly established in England than he proceeded to fulfil his promises to the nobles who had accompanied him to England. He seized upon, by law, all of the manors or estates of England by force of his conquest, wresting the titles from the earls and thegns without leave or license. These estates were grouped into manors which were appropriated by William himself and distributed according to his pleasure, and with some rude justice to the bravest worthies of his followers. Distribution of English Estates. Following is a list of the ten largest holders of land after the Conquest: 1. The King held as many as 1,422 manors 2. The Earl of Mortain held 793 3. Earl Alan of Brittany held 442 4. Odo, Bishop of Bayeux, held 439 5. Gosfrid, Bishop of Coutance, held 280 6. Roger de Busle held 174 7. Ilbert de Laci held 164 8. William Peverel held 162 9. Robert de Stradford held 150 10. Roger de Laci held 116 The ordinary arrangement in every manor was this: It was divided into two parts. One portion was the great home-farm about the seigneurial manor-house, held distinct from that of the tenants. The rest of the manor, called the tenantry part, was divided into small copyholdings, of about nearly equal value, and enjoying equal rights of commonage. This was, however, a constant pressure brought to bear upon the tenantry to reduce their privileges, and the functionaries of the lord were on the alert to pare down their rights. Swarms of under lords and functionaries were maintained. The Social Effect of William's Conquest. The Danish King Canute was both wise enough and adaptable enough to assimilate and amalgamate himself and his policies with the advanced civilization of England which he found when he came over as a boy from his native land. William was neither adaptable nor inherently gracious. He brought with him fixed standards of life and law and he felt nothing for the English but contemptuous tolerance. It is true that Norman civilization was as superior to the English as the English was to the Danish, but why this descendant of Norse or Scandinavian forebears should regard his Anglo-Saxon-Danish subjects of England with such contempt is hard to realize. The Viking had settled up Normandy but five generations since, yet they had completely forgotten their old Scandinavian tongue, and French was to them the hall mark of civilization and aristocracy. The explanation is perhaps that Teachers should appreciate the great importance of their special field of work, being prompt with their visits and in no way neglecting them. They should aim constantly to live up to the ideals set for them and to do the work in the best possible manner. They should be wise and discreet in their dealings with families and should make it a point to carry hope and good cheer into all the homes which they visit.

The work of the class teachers is, in a sense, specialized work. The woman who accepts the position of class leader should spare no pains to present lessons in an intelligent and edifying manner. This will require a great deal of study and preparation on her part. A class leader who is well prepared and enthusiastic over her work is a real power in the society and a great aid to the officers in maintaining a high grade of interest, and in increasing the attendance at Relief Society meetings. A class leader may judge of the effectiveness of her work by the results she obtains.

Stake and ward presidents should see that their organizations are complete. When vacancies occur they should be filled at once.

Mrs. Lyman read the following extract from a Circular of Instructions on Relief Society work: "A stake president, who is incapacitated for any reason, or who intends leaving her home for any extended period, should consult with the presiding priesthood as to her resignation. It is unwise for any organization to be left without an active head."

Meetings for stake officers should be held at least once a month. A meeting for stake and ward officers should be held at least once a month.

The speaker requested that all circular letters sent out by the General Board be preserved carefully for future reference.

Mrs. Martha A. F. Keeler spoke a few moments on "The Ideal Relief Society," emphasizing the importance of having the meetings conducted with the spirit of prayer, humility and love. The time should be spent with important and eternal things, and all temporary, trivial things should be ignored. Meetings should be opened and closed promptly according to scheduled time and those responsible for the program should see that everything is in readiness so that no time is wasted.

Mrs. Inez Knight Allen spoke briefly of the Hoover Cook Book recently published by the Relief Society women of the Utah stake, stating that those stakes who desire to handle the book in large numbers might have special concessions by applying to the Utah Stake Relief Society.

Mrs. Rebecca N. Nibley moved a vote of thanks to the Bailey Floral Company for the handsome easter flowering plant presented to the General Board. The motion was seconded by Mrs. Crismon and carried.

Evening Session.

Dr. Melvin C. Merrill, of the Utah Agricultural College, spoke on "Home Gardening." He emphasized the need of careful planning for the garden, with consideration of the amount of foodstuffs needed by each member of the family. He decried the idea of planting as many seeds as happened to be obtained at a seed store, but declared that every inch of ground should be used to the greatest advantage. Intensive gardening, Dr. Merrill insisted, must be the great slogan of the summer's activity. If there were weeds it was a sure proof that the garden was too large for its crop. The soil should be carefully prepared and fertilized. A great variety of vegetables should be planted and early summer crops should be speedily replaced with those to be harvested in the fall.

Prof. Byron Alder, of the U. A. C., emphasized the need of raising poultry as one of the big foodstuffs of the nation. With the shipping of all possible meats to the war zone, Prof. Alder said the poultry yard must be made to furnish a big part of the nation's protein foods. It takes two years, he asserted, to raise a beef for the market, one year for pork, one year for mutton, but eggs and poultry can be kept almost constantly on the market from the time the hens begin laying. Every family in the country, he urged, should raise enough eggs to last it a year, the spring eggs to be put away in liquid glass for the winter. He told of the care needed by the young chicks in order to insure the greatest possible production of eggs, urging especially plenty of water and sufficient meat, fish and bone scraps. Prof. Alder also urged the raising of a large variety of chickens.

Miss Joan Moen, of the U. A. C., gave a demonstration in the remodeling and renovating of old clothing, emphasizing the possibilities of old silk hosiery, woolen underwear, and other articles usually thrown away.

The morning session of our Relief Society conference in the Assembly Hall found a crowded congregation ready for the excellent program which had been prepared by the