Home Science department, under the direction of Mrs. Janette A. Hyde. After the opening exercises, Miss Alice Ravenhill, professor of home economics at the U. A. C., herself one of the best known authors in the United States on Child Welfare, took up this subject and delivered a most excellent address. The facts and truths which she treated are very familiar to the women of the Relief Society,

318 .

but a new angle was given through the presentation of modern statistics; and especially attractive was the cultured form and substance of the address. The speaker referred to the decision of the United States to make this coming year a child-welfare period, and manifested the need of more intelligent apprehension concerning the age-old problems of child-protection from diseases and death. Compared ignorance concerning the causes and prevention of infant mortality to a poison in the human system which necessitates an antidote, and recited the startling figures of infant mortality which was like a public poison withering the roots of national life. "Some races have more resistance to certain diseases than others," said the speaker. "The Caucasians are more susceptible to tuberculosis, whooping cough, measles, scarlet fever and other ailments. The yellow race has a peculiar resistance to certain organic diseases which enables it to live under conditions which would be fatal to the white race. Each one of us inherits certain tendencies. It is our duty to find out the direction in which each child is least resistant, to strengthen the weak and consolidate its strong points. Liberty does not carry with it the right to disregard the rights of others. The greater the democracy the stricter the discipline of its members that the rights of others be regarded the more responsible their duty to maintain a high standard of health, strict sanitary conditions, not alone for their own welfare, but that of their neighbors." She stated that 300,000 children died annually in this country before birth and declared that these conditions could be improved by a complete birth registration insuring the lightening of considerable ignorance and the aiding of the poverty stricken. Three thousand more children, she said, died before twelve months of age. The United States spends $350,000,000 on its insane population in one year, despite the two preventable causes of insanity—unfit parentage and the poisoning of the mother's system before the birth of the child. She told of the death rate in the various countries of the world of infants under twelve months old, for every 1,000 of child population, as follows: Belgium, 167; Italy, 153; Germany, before the war, 147; France, 127; England, including the city of London, 90; Russia, 248; Canada, 248; New Zealand, 50; and the United States, based on a very incomplete estimate, 120. Twenty-five per cent of the babies of this nation were found to have died of conditional debility; 9 per cent of bronchitis or pneumonia; one-ninth of digestive disorders; 50,000 annually of tuberculosis; 12 out of every 100 of whooping cough; from 10,000 to 20,000 annually of measles. For every death there was also counted six cases of illness which survived, resulting in blindness, deafness, dullness, delicate lungs, crooked spines, diseased joints, ruined digestions, etc. The speaker urged the mothers to study the conditions which will prevent disease and to enlist themselves in the war against child sacrifice. In closing she added some startling statistics as follows: Some 106,392 men, or 70 per cent of the applicants for the navy, had been found physically unfit; 500,000 of the military enlistments, or one-third, had been found through preventable diseases, unfit for service, all between the ages of 21 and 31. Eight million more men above 31 had been found physically disqualified, meaning that 13,000,000 men who should be in the very prime of life were physically useless to their country in its hour of need. The demonstration in food values and war-time substitutes given by Miss Jean Cox, of the U. A. C., was extremely interesting and attractive. The speaker had upon the stand sample portions of various foods, and thus illustrated all of her valuable and excellent points. She showed the contrasting caloric values and certainly provided many new suggestions for those present to work upon in the present food crisis. Afternoon Session. The conference in the afternoon was addressed by President Emmeline B. Wells, Counselors Clarissa Smith Williams, and Julina L. Smith, and Mrs. Mary Smith Ellsworth, president of the Relief Societies of the Northern States mission. Counselor Williams was the first speaker, and she delivered an earnest exhortation to the sisters, saying, in part: "We conserve in food and we conserve our clothing, and we endeavor to do all those things which are necessary for us to do in order that the great work which is being carried on today may be carried on to a successful finish. I want to say to you, dear mothers, conserve yourselves. If there is any danger today, it will be in the over-anxiety of the mothers and women past middle age who are past the child-bearing age, but who are the mothers of growing children.

If there would be a danger to them, it would be that they should endeavor to overdo the conservation theory. I would feel to impress on you to eat plenty of food, 'plenty of calories,' as Miss Cox said this morning—not overeat, but find, if possible, food that agrees with you, and then 'eat it slowly and chew well.' That is an old saw, but it is verily true. I know by experience that it does not take as much food for the nourishment of an adult person if it is thoroughly masticated. So take time to eat, take time to rest a little, and to reflect; and above all things, take time to pray that you may have the spirit of our heavenly Father and his beloved Son, to uphold you and give you strength to carry the burdens which are yours during these trying times.

"I am of the opinion that the women of the Latter-day Saints, with their usual responsibility in taking up new measures, are doing all in their power to help to carry on this great struggle in which we find ourselves. But sisters, have you ever paused to think that this war will not be won with bullets—it will be by the united effort of the whole people of the world who are working for peace and the right kind of peace, that the people may enjoy all the rights which the Lord designated that they should enjoy here in the world, and that it will take faith and prayer and work more than bullets to win this great struggle.

"I presume that many of you are surprised and delighted with the opinion of many noted men that the love of the Lord and the belief in the divinity of the Lord, and the thought that religion adds to the happiness of the human family is being widely disseminated, not only among men who have been of a non-religious nature, but many young men who thought they had no religion. I do not mean only our own young men, but many of the young men of the world are being led to believe that there is a God, that there is a future life beyond this life, and it is being borne in on them that it is proper that they should live in such a way that they should be ready to enter the presence of the Lord. Some beautiful testimonies come to us from our own young men. You know, you mothers, how our boys are often quite indifferent. They know that they are Latter-day Saints, they have always been Latter-day Saints, they have been taught to do this and that and the other, but they have not taken it very seriously. Many of them now feel that they are on as sacred a mission as they would be had they been set apart to go to preach the gospel; and by their conduct, and their manners and the words quietly spoken, they are able to be true missionaries to those with whom they are associated. I think one of the best things that has come to me has been the testimony of my own young son. He had the measles in the training camp, and during the time that he was in quarantine he had a great deal of time to reflect and read. While he was in a ward, he was yet in a quiet corner, and he wrote to tell me that he had had a beautiful testimony of the gospel. He had always thought the gospel was true, and it meant the most to him of anything, but he had never had a testimony of the gospel until those quiet hours that he spent in reflection and in prayer while he was on his sick-bed. Now that, sisters, means more to me and more to you who have sons who can bear this same testimony, than millions of dollars of riches. The very thought that our children are impressed with the divinity of the gospel, that they have the inspiration to tell them that the gospel is true, that they can say, 'O, I never realized what an uplift prayer could give me until now!' Now, with a firm belief that our heavenly Father will answer their prayers, that he is there, ready, just as their earthly parent would be, with accentuated love for them, oh, what a spirit of blessing it brings!

"I pray, my dear sisters, that we may have the Spirit to uphold us, to give us faith, that we may bless those about us with faith and with love and with courage, that we may be upheld by the knowledge that our Father in heaven is able to assist us, and that at all times we may be found doing his will and keeping his commandments." Counselor Julina L. Smith continued in the same theme, adding her own choice and sound advice as follows: "While Prof. Ravenhill was speaking about the boys and the men in the world, I felt to thank our heavenly Father this morning that our boys, the Latter-day Saints boys that have been called away, have not been found diseased and in a condition that they would have to be sent home because they are not fit for soldiers or for anything else. Once in a while we find a boy or two amongst us who have heart trouble, or some physical disability, but we can cheer up and feel thankful that our boys who have been reared Latter-day Saints are examples to the world; and when we hear of such things as we heard this morning of men in the outside world, we are grateful that our boys are not in that condition. "Now, most of the army boys smoke, and I said to a doctor down in San Diego, 'Why do they smoke?' In reply he stated that the boys had to walk so far every morning and drill so many hours, and that those who smoked and used tobacco could not walk so far as those that did not; and I asked him, 'Why do they allow them to smoke?' He said, 'That is up to them; they are permitted, of course, to use their own judgment in that.' He admitted that those who were perfectly pure and clean and kept the Word of Wisdom, could walk farther and do better than the others. Now, you mothers who have reared your boys to be Latter-day Saints, and have taught them not to use tobacco and liquor, you have some comfort, even if your sons have been called to war. "We have been looking forward to just such times as we have now. You, like myself, knew that when the Lord said that just such things would come as we are having now, that they would come sometime. I did not think it would be in my day. I thought before the end came we would have wars and pestilence and earthquakes and cyclones and all those things which the Lord said would come unless we were faithful and true and repented and lived right and we have not lived right, there are many of our 322 . own young folks who are being led away and have not been living as well as they used to live; but I think those who have had good teachings will do well. "I have heard of many of our boys who are away, exercising their good influence with other young men, that have not had the same training that the Latter-day Saints have had, and these others are listening to our Latter-day Saints boys and watching and imitating them. "In regard to our saving we can do a great deal of saving in taking care of food. I have seen people who would waste perhaps nearly half that they cooked, put on the table what little they wanted, and scrape the rest out. We can save by cooking only what we need, and if there is a little left over, warm it up and fix it over for another meal. But we do not have to eat food that is not palatable. We can cook it properly and have it palatable and good and have some left, and we can save in that way. "In regard to gardening I have done lots of gardening myself, and since I have been where I am now, without a little garden spot, I have looked out on the lawn many a day and thought if I had a little corner of that lawn where I could plant a little lettuce and a few onions and radishes, and go out and pick them in the morning, like I used to do, how glad I would be. It would not hurt anybody to take care of a little piece of garden like that.

I do not believe in saying to our old ladies and to the sisters who have worked all their lives: 'It is your duty to go out and plow and hoe and water and raise grain and vegetables.' There are many young people who can put in some of their time that way; and it will not hurt them, it will do them good. Just as much good will come to them from raising vegetables as raising flowers. And the older ladies can put in their time sewing and taking care of chickens. Those who were at our meeting last night heard the lecture on raising chickens. I was very much interested in that. An old lady can tend to the chickens and enjoy it, when she could not go out and hoe in the garden. There are things that we can all do that will help, and it is all war work. The old ladies that can sit and knit stockings and scarfs and wash rags and quilt pieces, they are doing their part and helping the soldiers. And I want to tell you that we are on the Lord's side. Our boys are working for the Lord, and we are going to win, for the Lord always wins. We may have a hard struggle, but we are going to win, we know that. As long as we are on the Lord's side we are all right. "Our Relief Society women have always been ready for whatever call the president of the Relief Society makes upon them, no matter what it is for. They respond directly, they are right up GENERAL CONFERENCE OF RELIEF SOCIETY. 323 and in arms. When the President of the Church says we want this, that or the other, they are ready. It is like touching an electric button and turning on the light. It takes only a little while to get out a word to all of our sisters, then they are on hand to do what they are asked to do. It is not because they are afraid and have to take counsel: it is because they are loyal and love to work in unison. When our government calls on us and says we want you to save and take care of the food, we are on hand to do it. When the government says, we want your boys, the best and healthiest that you have, to go to war, to go and help to save their country, that is the biggest and the hardest thing that we could be called upon for; but how do our sisters and our brothers respond? They say, 'Go, my son, you go and do your part. If you lose your life, you will lose it in a good cause, and if your life is spared to you, return home, knowing that you have done your duty, and you will be prepared to go on and help the Lord in his work.' "I pray that the Lord will bless each and every one of us and help us to do his will and help us that we may not forget to pray, to pray for all who have gone to war, that all the honest in heart and all who trust in the Lord may be blessed, which is my prayer in the name of Jesus. Amen." Mrs. Ellsworth said, in part: "I feel this afternoon as I listened to that beautiful trio, and heard those sisters sing, how blessed are they who trust in the Lord! and I looked over this splendid audience, and those words filled my heart: 'How blessed are they who trust in the Lord!' The Lord has been good to the Latter-day Saints; he has kept his promise to us that to us should be revealed his mind and will, and that we should be magnified in the eyes of the world, and that the eyes and the hearts of the nations of the earth should be turned to Zion. Since the first of last December I have had the privilege of visiting 25 groups of women located throughout the six states of the Northern States mission, and in making my trips to and fro to those 25 groups of women, I have come in contact with many, many people, and have had the privilege given to me to talk to them about the prophecies concerning the war, and I come to tell you that the spirit of unrest, a feeling of fear, is in the hearts of the people of the world. Our missionaries testify that as they go from door to door, tracting, many are glad to listen to their word; they are turning their hearts to the things of the Lord.

"Our missionaries number about 168, yet are a band of children compared to the educated and experienced men and women among whom they labor, but the Lord is good to us our baptisms this year have been greater in number than in any other year of our mission. We baptized in the month of July more than were baptized in the whole of the first year that President Ellsworth presided in the Northern States.

"And I was glad to hear yesterday in our meeting and today the cry from the stand, 'Sisters, conserve your strength.' I think sometimes we get too anxious, too over-zealous, and do more than is required of us, and still I do not want to feel to criticize, but do my utmost in everything that I am called to do.

"Do you not know that we are blessed above all people in all time? To us has been made known the prophecies of the Bible, the prophecies of the Book of Mormon, which bring us to a fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. We have been told that dire calamities will come: war, earthquake, pestilence, famine—we have been taught it always, not only from the prophets in the Bible and the Book of Mormon, but our Father in heaven has blessed us with our latter-day prophet, to whom he has revealed himself so that the smallest child can understand the things that are to come, the test that is to be made of his children. He has said to us, 'I will have a tried people; you must love me, you must keep my commandments; you must know the gospel and you must know that you know it.' I believe the time is right at our doors when the world is going to be shaken up, when the people everywhere are going to turn to the Lord—for as we go about in our mission, we find hundreds and thousands of beautiful, honest-hearted people. But they have not been given the light that we have received.

"'Blessed are those who trust in the Lord.' While I know some of our boys will have to fall, while I believe sincerely that many of them will give their lives in this great struggle for liberty, I believe firmly that to them on the other side will be given the great privilege of teaching the gospel to the hundreds and thousands who will be slain.

"The day has come when the spirit of Elijah is poured out upon all nations. It is our duty to look after our dead, and if we will, the spirit of the Lord will come to us, peace and comfort shall be given to us, and even though we lose our sons, the sting of death shall be taken away if we keep the commandments that the Lord has given us.

"In our mission, with a little group of less than 400 women, we have sent in to the temple during the last year 3,300 names, and when I tell you that those sisters, many of them, work by the day in stores, in shops, some of them scrubbing, ironing, taking care of the sick, or what they can, to pay for that temple work, you will know that they believe and are fully converted to the principle of salvation for the dead. And so I say the Lord has blessed us as he said. He has kept his promise to us."

President Emmeline B. Wells then addressed the meeting: "My beloved brethren and sisters, I am sorry I am hoarse, but feel that I must speak, because I have the same feeling at this conference that I have had previously, that perhaps I might not be spared until another conference, you know, all of you, that I am not young, and probably most of you know that I have been a very long time in the Church—seventy-six years, the first day of March, since I was baptized into the Church—nearly four score years in the Church, and in that long experience I have seen and heard wonderful things. I have never doubted, not once, the truth of the gospel as revealed through the Prophet Joseph.

"We should guard our children and protect them from everything that is wrong; and when they do marry, they should marry in the House of the Lord, the Temples that we have built here wherein ceremonies of this kind should take place; so that their children may be born in the new and everlasting covenant and be entitled to every blessing pertaining to that calling.

"We speak of our young men as our boys.

I remember that in Nauvoo they used to speak about the Nauvoo Legion as the boys of the Nauvoo Legion. A great many of them were boys, and the Prophet Joseph himself was young. When we look back and think of his age, think of what he had passed through, and the terrible persecutions he endured, and then of his terrible death, and his brother Hyrum, and what they suffered, it startles us! However, we believe what the scriptures say, that the blood of the martyrs is the seed of the Church; and since that time, how wonderfully the Church has grown. "I recall the very, very dark hours in Nauvoo, when the Prophet was taken to prison, and how the people mourned, mourned as if he were their very own it is sad even to think of it, the mourning of the people at the time when the Prophet and his brother Hyrum (the father of our present prophet, seer and revelator today) were taken to prison; and how the people turned out in the streets to watch them go! And I recall that President Daniel H. Wells said many times when he spoke of it, that they passed his house, which was just on the outskirts of the city, and that the Prophet stopped and spoke to him and said to him, "Squire Wells, I hope you won't think I am the worst man in the world because I am going to prison." There was a crowd of people all the way they went. I saw them when they went, and the crowd that followed them. But this was really on the outskirts of the city when he spoke to Squire Wells and shook hands with him, I believe if I remember right. Squire Wells had not then become a member of the Church, although I think he was convinced that "Mormonism" was true, and tried to wait for his wife to believe as he did. You know the story, all of you I do not need to repeat that, but I do want to bear my testimony, even if it should be the last that I would have the opportunity to bear to you, of the Prophet Joseph and his wonderful personality. "I think there is no person there could not be any one, so devoid, I think, of the knowledge of people, that could think that there was anything but loyalty and truth and love and mercy in his character. He certainly had a divine appearance. It seems to me that he must have been very much like the Savior himself. When I think of him I can see him just as plain as anything can be in my mind's eye, as if he stood here in the midst of us, speaking to the people as he did on every occasion that I heard him talking to the people. "We have had persecution here, but not to compare with that. We have had the army in Echo canyon, and kept them there for a while, until we could move to Provo and other places in the south. And then we returned in great triumph. I recall the time when Heber C. Kimball came into the house where three of the Wells family were gathered at that time in Provo, and he sat down to talk to us. He saw that we were gloomy especially I was gloomy, because I had seen the time when we were driven from Nauvoo, and when my own mother died from persecution. She was not fifty years old when she died of the hardships. Of course hundreds of others died as well. When we went to Provo it brought it all back again and Heber C. Kimball sat in our house in Provo, before we went into the shanties, and said, "Emmeline, let me tell you that we shall go back to Salt Lake City, and we shall go back in triumph." It was pretty hard to believe, and I do not know that I did exactly believe it, but it came to pass. "The Lord has preserved us in these valleys of the mountains. He has kept us, and we are preserved, and we have grown and we have multiplied, and in nearly all of the nations of the earth and on the islands of the sea we have people faithful and true, just as we try to be who live here under the droppings of the sanctuary, and hear our prophets speak and talk and hear our President. All of us, probably, who are here in this house have heard President Joseph F. Smith speak from the stand in the Tabernacle. Undoubtedly we have, and I hope we shall again during this conference.

And we have this grand Society, this Society of women, that was organized by the Prophet Joseph himself in the City of Nauvoo, in the Masonic Hall. There were then only a few, 18 in number, and three of the brethren of the Priesthood with them. And we have still kept on. Now we have hundreds and thousands in the Relief Society, and I believe we have all been well taught, even those who have been in foreign countries. When I heard Brother Hyrum M. Smith's wife speak as she did at one of our conferences recently, I felt that the Lord had certainly been with her in proclaiming the truth there, almost as much, I may say, as he had with the elders. And our sisters who have traveled and gone in foreign countries with their husbands and some without them, and the missionaries who have been called to stay there, their wives have gone with them; and then the young girls, young women, who have been called into the mission field, they have all done a great work. "I remember, in Nauvoo, when some of the missionaries would be starting away, I thought, 'I only wish I were a boy, and if I could go on a mission, how glad I would be!' And I never expected then that I would see the day when the women would be called to go abroad and teach and preach the gospel. But I am very glad that I have lived to see that day. Soon after going to Nauvoo, having been associated always with the people in Nauvoo, I heard a very great deal about missions and going on missions, and I had the greatest desire in the world even then to go on a mission, though we were sick, and distressed, and poor, and had scarcely enough to eat. But I have never been really sent on a mission. I think I have been eleven times in Washington on special missions, and I have been abroad, and I have talked the gospel to hundreds of people and strangers everywhere I went, if there was any opportunity at all. I have never been called upon a mission; but I was set apart to this mission that I have now in the Relief Society, which is as great a mission as I can possibly have. I love the sisters of the Relief Society as I love myself and my own kindred they are just as near to me as many of my own kindred are that are dear to me; and my kindred are very dear to me. I feel that I made some sacrifice when my mother died a martyr to the faith, but I do not feel that I have made any great sacrifice at all myself, because my ways have been ways of pleasantness, and everything has been pleasing to me. "The Prophet said that the people would come to Zion with their packs on their backs to be fed; and I know a story in connection with this which I could not tell you today. It is a very good one and proof that it was taken to heart by some people. I do not think that they have as yet come in that way, but probably they will, because of the terrible wars that take place in the world today, that are taking place today, and that may yet take place in the future, if the prophecies of the Bible and of the Book of Mormon, and the Prophet Joseph Smith and of President Young are fulfilled, they certainly will; and it looks now as if it was not so very far off when they would come to be fed. "I am very glad that I have had the experiences that I have had; I am very glad that I am able to tell them to the people wherever I go, the wonderful things that we passed through in the early days, the wonderful man President Brigham Young was, as well as the Prophet, for certainly he was one of the greatest minds ever given to man. Except the Prophet, we consider him until now the greatest. Perhaps there have been other great men. At the present time we have the same blood in the man that presides over us today that the Prophet had in his veins.

"I recall with great pleasure the mother of the Prophet, how we used to come and kneel down at her feet and think it was the greatest pleasure possible, that she must be the greatest woman in the world, because she was the mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith, whom we all revered above any man that we have ever seen. And yet we have the same blood today, the blood of the martyrs, presiding over us today! I hope that you, all of you, and all of you who preside and have an opportunity to speak in meetings, will remember the man who stands at the head of the Church today, and who presides over us, that he is the greatest man living on the earth today. No king or potentate, or anything else, no matter what position he may occupy, is so great as the man who presides over the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, of which we are members; and I hope that you will all pray that he and those associated with him may live, that he will have his family and friends, and all the Twelve Apostles, and especially the President of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles, who is also a great man. Those who hold the Priesthood in places where they have been called to preside should be reverenced and looked up to. And let us have that great love in our hearts always that we felt perhaps when we were first baptized into the Church, the love for each other, in the Relief Society and for all those women who have been called in the Young Ladies' and the Primary Associations. Let us love them, and let us help all men, all brothers and sisters, all good people everywhere, for God is love, and love must be the greatest thing in the world when the Scriptures tell us that God is love. Let us love each other, and be true to each other in our relation to each other in the Relief Society and all the other organizations with which we may be connected or our children or our daughters or our sons. Let us be as strong in the faith as it is possible for us to be, and maintain our purity, maintain our integrity to the gospel and to those with whom we are associated, to our own, and to all others who are good people. "That the Lord may bless the Relief Society in every part and portion thereof, and all other good people in the world, is my prayer. Amen."

Mothers in Israel.

We are happy to present to our readers as the frontispiece of this number the remarkable family of a remarkable mother. We doubt whether there is such a family at present anywhere on the earth, a family of fifteen such healthy, handsome, gifted and thorough Latter-day Saints as is presented in this picture. The mother looks but little older than her children, while the children themselves are noble examples of the value of the applied principles of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Nor would we forget or minimize the great factor found in the splendid fatherhood of President William Budge, who gave life and being to this choice group of sons and daughters. President Budge is one of the great pioneers of this Church. He was an early settler in Bear Lake valley in Idaho. When that stake was organized in 1877, he was made president, which position he retained until he was called to Logan, on the death of President Mariner W. Merrill, to act as President of the Logan temple, which position he still occupies. Himself a remarkable man, not the least of his executive gifts lies in the strict yet kindly methods which he set in operation for the upbringing of his own numerous and splendid family. The modest yet illuminating sketch received concerning the life and labors of this great mother in Israel follows. We commend the prayerful study thereof to all young mothers in Israel who would prepare themselves to become the righteous mothers of the righteous sons of men:

Among the large families to be found in the "Mormon" Church is the family of Mrs. Ann Hyer Budge of Logan, Utah, whose parents, Christian and Caroline Hyer came from Norway and were numbered among the first to cross the plains. Mrs. Budge was born in Bountiful, January 25, 1853, and when but seven years of age she moved with her parents to Richmond, Utah. She was early taught to help her mother with the housework, as well as to assist her father in the fields, especially during hay time and harvest. During the grasshopper times, Mrs.

Budge and her sister were assigned the task of driving the hoppers from the grain field by the use of a long rope which they stretched out and dragged over the growing grain. The grasshoppers were thus driven to a pile of straw which was afterwards set on fire and in this way baskets of the destroyers were destroyed. Mrs. Budge had very little opportunity to gain an education, as the pioneer facilities for instructions made advanced schooling almost out of the question. In January, 1868, Ann Hyer met William whom she married the following April 4, and immediately afterwards moved to Providence, Utah, where she did anything and everything she could to assist in the making of a livelihood for her growing family. In the autumn of 1870, President William Budge was called by President Brigham Young to take his families and move to Bear Lake, Idaho, there to assume charge of the Church affairs in that section. Mrs. Budge brought fifteen children into the world—eight boys and seven girls—and has been blessed in that she was successful in rearing all of them. At the time this photograph was taken, the boys averaged a weight of 201 pounds, and the girls averaged 162 pounds, making an actual weight of 2,742 pounds of her offspring. Besides caring for all of these children Mrs. Budge has devoted more or less of her time to Relief Society work, as an active teacher; and she is always willing to assist in any material way required. Today she is counted as one of the strongest and healthiest women in the country. It might well be argued from this sterling example that rearing children promotes vitality and youth in the mother, while not impairing health or happiness in the children as some people are wont to assert. We are exceedingly proud of this exhibit and present the same to our readers and to the world as a family in Israel.

Elder Solomon F. Kimball has put time and much loving endeavor into an interesting sketch of his able and forceful brother David. The pages glow with pioneer items and word pictures. Not the least interesting portions of the book are those intimate, thrilling chapters which reveal some vital experiences of the quaint and remarkable author himself. We cordially recommend it to our friends and readers.

Experience. By Lucy May Green.

The knitting needles clicked merrily in the hands of the dozen or more women gathered in the comfortable sitting room of Sister Burton of Alvon ward. The occasion was a special meeting of the Relief Society Red Cross workers and the tongues wagged briskly as the busy fingers plied their needles. In one corner of the room a bright, veracious woman was relating some funny experience and the work was interrupted by peals of merry laughter. Another group were discussing recent events in their neighborhood, and I'm sorry to relate, were criticizing some of their ward officers. "This will never do," thought President Hunter, "in a moment or two we shall be gossiping." "Sisters," she called aloud, "let us have a song. We will sing, 'Count Your Blessings.'" A hush fell over the gathering, then a chord was sounded, and the voices mingled in the familiar hymn of gratitude. "We have many blessings," began the president as the song concluded, "so many that we cannot count them all, some we seldom think of, others we do not use at all. Take for instance, the use of consecrated oil in the home. Many of our people do not even keep a bottle of oil on hand, and if illness comes, and the Priesthood is called to administer the healing ordinance, it has to be done with borrowed oil, or delayed until some can be purchased and consecrated. A bottle of oil occupies first place in my medicine cabinet," she continued, "I could not keep house without it." "That is true," answered Sister Larsen, "we do not half appreciate its value. The last time I visited my 'block' I called at the home of one of our good sisters, and found it all confusion. A two-year-old youngster was screaming lustily in the arms of his mother who was walking the floor in a vain attempt to comfort him. 'Whatever's wrong?' I enquired. 'Why,' she returned, 'my boy is ruptured, and the friction caused by his truss has chafed him badly, and I have no salve or ointment left,' she concluded lamely. " 'Have you any consecrated oil?' said I. " 'Yes, but I would not dare use it myself; that is only for the Priesthood to use,' said she.

"'What an idea!' I replied; 'isn't it to be used in the household of faith? Do you think I'd let my child suffer when a few applications of healing oil would soothe and relieve? And if you would use enough faith, without doubt, it would effect a cure.' But she would not be convinced, and as I left she was planning to send to the drug store for vaseline."

"Sisters," said President Hunter, "this is an interesting topic for discussion. Let us have your experiences."

"When I came over from England," spoke up Sister Rose, "I brought along a bottle of consecrated oil in my dressing case, and when on board ship, the company of Elders and Saints began to get seasick. My oil was kept in constant use for the healing ordinance; in fact, it was the only bottle of oil on board. One faithful old sister became very ill, and was administered to frequently. She died on the overland journey, but I often think of her faith, and the comfort brought about through the administrations of the Priesthood, and my bottle of oil."

"My sister Lou," began Sister Bruer, "always takes some consecrated oil when we go on our canyon trips. I used to laugh at her, but on one occasion, when we all got poisoned through eating some bottled beans, we found it very useful. That was a dreadful experience," and she shuddered as if to shut out the recollection.

"Some have faith to heal, others have faith to be healed. The latter has been my especial gift," began Sister Stevens. "From my childhood up I have always desired to be administered to whenever I was sick. If no Elders were available, I used the holy oil myself. I have great faith in the blessings pronounced on it when it is consecrated by the Priesthood. I have used it for neuralgia, for earache, headache and for burns."

"That reminds me," observed Sister Mayne. "Just recently I received a distinct impression to get a new bottle, as mine was almost gone. I did so, and a few days later I was washing and the boiler bubbled over, severely scalding my feet. My folks wanted me to send for the doctor, but I used plenty of gauze soaked in consecrated oil, was also administered to, and in less than two weeks my burns were completely healed, and scarcely any scar remains. It was an additional testimony of the blessings of the gospel," she concluded.

"Five o'clock, and time to dismiss," called President Hunter. "We have heard some wonderful experiences; let us profit by them and in counting our many blessings let us return our thanks to our Father in heaven, that he has restored the Priesthood to earth, and the gifts of the gospel, among which is the healing ordinance and the use of the holy consecrated oil."

Unusual Mothers.

M. Melissa Summerhays, daughter of Joshua Parker and Drucilla Hartley, was born at Kanesville, Pottawattamie County, Iowa, May 21, 1852. That same year her parents crossed the plains. They settled in the Sixteenth ward, in which ward Melissa was reared. At the time of the "Move," being then five years of age, she went South with her parents and remained there until Johnston's Army passed through Salt Lake City en route to Camp Floyd, when they came back to their home in the Sixteenth ward. On June 27, 1870, she was married in the Endowment House to Joseph William Summerhays, and is the mother of sixteen children—nine girls and seven boys. Her sons have performed seven missions as follows: To England, to the Southern States, Samoa, Switzerland, Germany and France, and she now has one son who is serving his country with the United States Expeditionary forces in France. In 1892 she removed to the Forest Dale ward of the Granite stake in which ward she now resides. She was a member of the Relief Society in the 16th ward and has been a member of and a teacher in the Relief Society in the Forest Dale ward ever since it was organized. Her special mission in the ward in which she now lives is to visit the sick and to administer to the sisters who expect to become mothers. In talking with her about her life's labors, her desires and aspirations, she stated that above all other things she was thankful for, was the gospel, and for the comfort and consolation that is brought to her. She said that she knew that the gospel was true and that in her weak way she had been trying to keep the commandments of God, in doing which she found unspeakable consolation.

Notwithstanding Melissa is now 66 years of age, and has had sixteen children, she is a well preserved woman and her dark hair shows very few gray hairs. EVANGELINE DUNN HUNSAKER. MOTHER OF SEVENTEEN CHILDREN. Evangeline Dunn Hunsaker is the mother of seventeen children. Great has been her mission here on earth and well and faithfully has she performed the same. She was born September 12, 1853, in Brigham City, Utah. Her father, Simeon A. Dunn, was one of the first settlers of Brigham City, and lived in the old fort, together with President Lorenzo Snow and others. Her mother's name was Harriet Attwood Silver, who joined the Church in Lowell, Massachusetts; and leaving all her family and friends for the gospel's sake she went to Winter Quarters, where she met and married Simeon A. Dunn. They emigrated to Utah in 1848. Seven children were born to them three sons and four daughters, as follows: Sarah S., Simeon A., Emaline and Evaline (twins), Charles O., Harriet and Henry (twins). Harriet Attwood Silver Dunn died January 1, 1858, leaving her seven children without a mother's care. Evangeline was only four years old at the time of her mother's death. She with the other children were left to the care of their father and an older sister (Susannah Dunn), whose mother was also dead, and who was only fourteen years old when these little brothers and sisters were left to her care. In the midst of poverty, the hard times and privations incident to the early pioneer life in Utah, the children all young, were subjected to a life of hardship that may be imagined only by persons acquainted with such scenes. October 5, 1868, in the Endowment House, Salt Lake City, Evangeline was united for time and for eternity to Allen Collins Hunsaker. Soon after her marriage she moved with her husband to Honeyville, where they lived for about eleven years, when they settled in Elwood, Utah, being among the first settlers, again pioneering a new country. Her husband was a farmer and sheep man. He was Presiding Elder of the branch for over ten years and always received encouragement and help from his wife. Seventeen children were born to them, namely: Simeon A., Lewis, Eva L., Lily M., Emaline M., Harriet V., Ethel, Adeline (died in infancy), Latitia, Margaret, Susie, Aleen, Nephi (died at two years of age), Oscar (died at three weeks), Lorenzo S., Amy, and Harold (died in infancy). Thirteen of the seventeen children are now grown to maturity, and all except one (Lorenzo S.) are married and all had that ordinance performed in the Temple. Surely the teachings, the example and the loving counsel of this parent have not been in vain! If the children of this loving mother do anything wrong, or if they do not keep the commandments given to them as members of this Church, it will not be because the mother and father failed to teach them by example and precept every principle of the gospel. Sister Hunsaker is a faithful member of the Church, being a worker in the ward Relief Society and helping in every way she can. She is the grandmother of 74 children and has four great-grandchildren whose father (Simeon A.) died in 1902 and their mother in 1904. She has taken these children (the oldest being seven years old when their mother died), and cared for them, and they are now grown men and women. The eldest (Simeon V. Hunsaker) has enlisted in the Navy. Two of Sister Hunsaker's sons Simeon A. and Lewis have filled honorable missions; the first to Germany and the latter to England. For almost forty-nine years she has been a constant companion, a true and devoted wife and a loving mother. Long may she yet remain to be a source of inspiration to her posterity. FOR RELIEF SOCIETY SINGERS. A new and tuneful duet for soprano and alto, entitled, "Prince Charming," by our popular and veteran composer, John Chamberlain, is now on sale at the Chamberlain Music Company, 44 South Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah; price 50c per copy. Home Entertainments. By Morag. Much of the joy we receive through life comes from association with one another in the family circle, in the hospitable homes of our friends and in our various Church and school gatherings. Many of our homes are now feeling the loneliness of separation from loved ones enlisted in their country's service, and the uncertain waiting that only such a war as this can bring. We know it is our patriotic duty to be wise and economical of our resources, as well as of our time and money.

It is equally as much our patriotic duty to bring as much joy and sunshine into the world as we possibly can. Uncle Sam is doing everything possible to provide recreations for his soldiers in every branch of the service; they have unlimited chances to play, sing and smile. Fortunately happiness making need not be costly either in expenditure of materials, time or labor; only a little, sometimes, in the amount of thought, love and personal sacrifice involved. We need home fun, and parties to keep up the normal balance of our lives. The month of June brings many social occasions, wedding parties and receptions, class parties, exercises for flag day. Let these be as simple and inexpensive as possible; avoid ostentation; let the costumes of our brides conform to the Church standard; use simple, home cooked meals, instead of those furnished by a costly caterer, and for decorations the fragrant flowers from the home garden. Whatever refreshments are served at your parties let them conform strictly to the "Hoover" standard and be made to take the place of one of the regular meals whenever practicable. Every bit of the happiness we can create in our homes and hearts over here will find its way across the water to those so bravely going "over the top" for us that we may live.

FLAG DAY. June 14, the anniversary of the adoption of the flag, is celebrated throughout the land. The age of the American flag surprises many, for it was adopted by the Continental congress on June 14, 1777. It is, therefore, eight years older than the flag of Spain, seventeen years older than the tricolor of France, twenty-three years older than the British ensign, and preceded the flags of Italy (1848), Japan (1859), and Germany (1871). On Flag Day hold patriotic exercises in the home, school and Church. Renew your pledge of allegiance, and celebrate the day with patriotic song, sentiment, and story. Decorate your homes with flags and bunting. Good floral combinations are red and white carnations and blue cornflowers, or crimson roses with blue and white larkspur.

The Flag in Song. "Flag of the Free." "We'll Never Let the Old Flag "Star Spangled Banner." Fall." "There are Many Flags in "Old Glory." Many Lands." "Flag Without a Stain." "The Emblem of Freedom." "My Own America." "How Betsy Made the Flag." "The Red, White and Blue."

The following sentiment written on flag decorated cards would make appropriate souvenirs or place cards: "Listen, son! The band is playing 'The Star Spangled Banner.' They have let loose 'Old Glory' yonder. Stand up, bare your head, lift your eyes and thank God that you live under the flag."

Refreshments for Flag Day party. Star-shaped sandwiches, tomato jelly salad garnished with white potato stars, lemon ice cream with raspberry syrup and a tiny flag in each dish, and graham or oatmeal cookies.

HOME EVENING. June 1 and June 27 are dates that should be remembered in every Latter-day Saint home. The former is the birthday of that great pioneer and leader, the Moses of modern Israel, Brigham Young; while the latter date is the anniversary of the martyrdom of the Prophet and Patriarch of the last dispensation, Joseph and Hyrum Smith.