[Vol1 | May 1914 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Home Ethics]

HOME ETHICS Lesson V. (a) "Work is the gospel of life." (b) Order and system a necessity. (c) Every member in the family should have good and sufficient work for the brain and hands. (d) To become efficient in any branch of business one must be orderly and systematic in the habits of work. (e) Contrast the difference in individuals and homes where the above qualities are practiced and where they are not. (f ) Work is necessary to physical and mental health. (g) Our mortal bodies are the homes for our spirits to dwell in. (h) Necessary that the bodies be kept pure and undefiled.
Work, System, and Order in the Home.
Thomas Carl vie says that "Work is the gospel of life." We feel that this is true, and the more we study the problems of right living, the plainer this is made to our understanding.
 The poet Pope said, "Order is Heaven's first law." Therefore, the earthly home should have, as one of its prime factors, order and system, that the work and discipline may proceed with the least possible friction.
Every member of the household should have work for the hands and brains to do, systematically arranged and lived up to, in order to accomplish the highest physical destiny of each family organization.
Nature teaches this law of order.
As intelligent women we have tested the value and force thereof.
To be efficient business women, or to adopt a certain profession, we study along the line we are to follow; then, how doubly important that every woman who takes upon herself the responsibility of wife and mother should make preparation for this most important of all professions and business.
Care and discretion are needed here, in order that we may regulate our duties wisely.
Our Heavenly Father is willing to give help, to bestow wisdom, if we go to Him, in humility and prayer, "Who giveth liberally and upbraideth not." Let us visit a home where work is done with order and system.
All perform their several duties properly; there you will find peace, happiness and comfort.
All are contented, cheerful and thrifty.
Then go into an adjacent home.
Here neglect, indifference, extravagance, disorder and indolence reign.
Mark the contrast.
In the latter home selfishness, discourtesy, wretchedness, sorrow and misery follow this unregulated course.
No woman who understands the laws of health will shirk activity.
All hygienic advisers will tell you that beauty is attained only by right physical exercise brain work is an absolute necessity for mental health so is physical labor, to a certain extent, while neither is complete without the other.
Spiritual life could not long survive without the support of the physical being.
The development of body and soul, heart and mind, is accomplished simultaneously, if both are properly exercised.
Our mortal structures are the houses in which our spiritual beings dwell.
Then, how all-important that we keep our bodies pure, and well sustained, in form and structure.
We are given reasoning faculties.
We have intellects.
We have inspired writings to instruct us, and many other avenues through which to gain knowledge and information, for we have our free agency.
Then, how absolutely imperative that at all times we should work with a will, and keep in order our individual and family life, guard sacredly our obligations to God and all His children, thereby making for ourselves and our people a record clear and untarnished.
Let us prove worthy all
10 our lives to claim the protection and guidance of Heaven.
Let us so arrange our work and our time that order and system will guide us every day of the week.
Let us utilize the precious moments and opportunities that present themselves 'for the development of our mental and physical organizations, and our religious desires.
May