[WomansExponent | Vol13 | 1884 | February | Issue: 17 | Title: A VIEW- FEBRUARY 18S5. | Author: Unknown]

﻿		A VIEW- FEBRUARY 18S5.
	It is interesting to note the different phases
presented at different periods of the world’s
history by those powers which have ever been
opposed to the truth. Alike in those dispensa-
tions in which Moses and Jesus were to figure
prominently, the Evil Powers seem to take into
consideration beforehand the necessity of doing
something to prevent the rise of such mighty
one, in the interest of that cause against which
they fought.
	They therefore “put it into the hearts of
wicked men" to have the lives of infants taken
which should be born in the times and places in
which they supposed those mighty ones were to
come forth. But notwithstanding all the great
crimes committed in the shedding of innocent
blood at those times the plans of the Almighty
were not frustrated. The very children whose
lives were sought being safely guarded and kept
alive. The Evil Powers were foiled and the
powers of light were triumphant.
	In this, “The dispensation of the Fulness of
Times,” the evil powers seem to take a some-
what different stand, though evidently working
with the same object in view as in former times.
It appears now that their business is to ‘put it
into the hearts of wicked men” to frame and
seek to enforce laws to the effect that children

[Column 2]
shall not be born. The world does not want
them, and the few people who do want them
must not have them if their enemies can pre-
vent it.
	This latter scheme of the Evil Powers is with-
out doubt concocted in consequence of a knowl-
edge which they must have obtained of the fact
that within a limited space of time, all the re-
maining spirits which belong to this earth, and
are to receive earthly tabernacles, wi1 be born
of the flesh. That among them are many mas-
ter spirits, which have been reserved for the
great work of the latterdays. And that as soon
as these spirits have received their fleshly taber-
nacles, and are brought forth, “The end of the
world, which is the destruction of the wicked,"
will c[-]me.
	Is it any wonder that the Evil Powers are
striving so madly and so vigorously at this time
to do something to prevent the birth of pure
spirits in pure bodie? What else should they
be striving for, knowing, as they do, that “their
time is short?” Only to be faithful and diligent
remains for those who are looking forward to the
time when the evil powers will be bound, and

