Guide Lessons for October LESSON I Theology and Testimony (First Week in October) MIRACLES What Miracles Are: The miracle is an event or operation caused by the interposition of some super-human power. Miracles are supernatural in the sense that in the performing of them the operations of the forces of nature are modified by superhuman intelligence and power to the extent of bringing results that would not have come without this interposition. Miracles are also natural because they are performed in obedience to natural laws. In walking upon the water, Jesus did not suspend the operation of the law of gravity, but he introduced a spiritual force that lifted in opposition to the down pull of gravity. The operation. Was as natural as causing a piece of iron to float by holding a magnet over it. The one was a miracle because the power that adjusted nature was super-human, the other was not a miracle because the power of adjustment was human.. Miracles are usually known as "acts of God", but they may be acts of other beings. A Classification of Miracles. As to quality, miracles are of two kinds, real and apparent. A real miracle is an event in which super-human intelligence or power has actually taken a direct part, as in jthe case of the conception, and the resurrection of Christ, and innumerable lesser events which never could have come about without super-human interposition. An apparent miracle is an event which appears to have in it the interposition of the super-human to the extent of directing and changing the operations of natural forces as in the case of an eclipse of the sun being considered as a special act of the super-human to exhibit displeasure, or the natural breaking forth of a volcano, as related to the immediate consciousness and special will of the super-human. _ Real miracles make for religion and faith, apparent miracles make for superstition.  As to their nature, miracles are either miracles of knowledge or miralcles of power. Miracles of knowledge include dreams, visions, inspirations, whisperings of the Spirit, prophecy, revelation, and seership. Miracles of power include healings, preservation, deliverance and their opposites. Lepers were miraculously made as well as cured; individuals and communities have been miraculously destroyed as well as preserved. The Lord drove Adam and Eve from the Garden of Eden to combat with Satan, and delivered them from death through the great miracle of redemption including the greatesht miracle of power ever performed on this earth, the resurrection. As to their source, miracles are either devine or demoniacal. This source distinction in miracles has extensive scriptural recognition. The divinely rejected King of Israel sought the witch of Endor. I Samuel 28. Satan showed miraculous power in the presence of Moses. Pearl of Great Price, Chapter I. Jesus was tauntingly accused of performing demoniacal miracles. Mark 3:22. Joseph Smith was attacked and temporarily overpowered by Satan in the Sacred Grove. Pearl of Great Price. Writings of Joseph Smith, 2:15. Miracle Instruments The oldest miracle instrument of record is the Urim and Thummim, used in both ancient and modern Israel as an instrument for miraculously obtaining knowledge. See Pearl of Great Price, Book of Abraham, 3:1-4; I Samuel, 28:6; Pearl of Great Price, Writings of Joseph Smith, 2:59. A rod, see Exodus 4:17, the Liahona, see Book of Mormon, I Nephi 16:10, 16, 28, 29: also 18:12, 21. Seer Stone. See Doctrine and Covenants, 130:10. There is no record of Jesus having used any mechanical instrument in performing miracles, the nearest approach to it was in the case where he anointed the blind man's eyes with mud made from spittle and clay. The Objectives or Purpose of Divine Miracles. While each divine miracle has its special purpose, it is evident that there are two general objectives or purposes behind most of them. First, the comfort of the humble; and, second, the humiliation of the haughty. Miracles are more faith-sustaining than faith-producing. They are to be appreciated more than to be sought for. They are to be prized but not paraded or set forth in a boastful manner. The humble recital of miraculous events is a most effective method of fixing the faith of the young people. Miraculous events will stand unmeasured reiteration without losing their spiritual effectiveness, if the recitals are accompanied by the Spirit of the Lord.  It is marvelous how multitudes will respond without tiring at the retold story of the Lord's interposition in behalf of his people, and what is true with the community is true of the family in this respect. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. In what respect is a miracle super-natural, and from what point of view is every miracle perfectly natural? Name six kinds of miracles considered in this lesson. Judging from the reported effects of using it, to which of the two sources of miracles does the planchette belong? 4. In the miracle contest between Aaron and the magicians of Egypt, what lesson was plainly taught? Exodus 7:8-12. 5. What valuable lesson is to be learned concerning miracles by a study of the conversation between Christ and Satan? Matt. 4:3-10. 6. Discuss this proposition: The sacredness of miracles suggests that we be willing to put our whole selves into doing a thing before we can consistently desire divine aid?divine interposition in our behalf. BIN LESSON II Work and Business. (Second Week in October) LESSON III Literature. (Third Week in October) In our tirst lesson, introducing hymns, we told you that one of the most famous hymns in all Christendom is, "A mighty fortress is our God." written by Martin Luther. This hymn becomes doubly significant when we take into consideration the fact that Luther wrote the words, and is in all probability the composer of the music. This music, thought to be Luther's, has remained from the first the most popular music for the hymn. Another fact connected with this hymn will undoubtedly appeal to ail Americans. Despite the fact that Thomas Carlyle gave us a translation. The translation made by the Rev. Henry Hedge. A graduate of Harvard University, is rapidly supplanting all other translations. The famous old Saint Augustine defined a hymn as a song  with praise to God. Says he, "If thou singest and praisest not God, thou utterest no hymn." Dr, Johnson defines a hymn "as a song of adoration to some superior being," of course, that superior being must be God, according to St. Augustine. The scope of the hymn has been broadened since St. Augustine's day; yet on one thing authorities are generally agreed, that a hymn must radiate a spirit of uplift; consequently any song void of the spirit of uplift would be deficient as a hymn, "A mighty fortress is our God," born of the great Protestant reformation, embraces any and all of the definitions here quoted. The fact that Luther gave to the world the German Bible has had a tendency to obscure the fact that he also gave the world a catechism and a hymnbook, thereby making of him the greatest of German hymnists. He began to write hymns in 1523, and continued to do so for twenty years, yet, as one writer puts it, with such a high regard for quality rather than quantity that he averaged only one a year. His first German hymnbook appeared in 1524. It contained only eight hymns, four of them from Luther. He wrote in his life about twenty-four hymns and translated about an equal number from the Latin. There is abundant evidence that Luther's hymn book was most valuable in spreading the Reformation; "The whole people," they said, "is singing itself into' the Lutheran doctrine." "A mighty fortress is our God" has gained such preeminence over all other hymns Luther has written that is is commonly known as Luther's hymn, and very commonly thought of as his only hymn. The forty-sixth Psalm, the song of the Hebrew prophet David, was the inspiration of this song: "God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble." The date of the composition of the hymn is unknown, but one thing is certain concerning it that it soon became widely known among the Protestants. The German poet, Heine, called it the Marseilles of the Reformation. "A mighty fortress is our God, A bulwark never failing, Our helper he, amid the flood Of mortal ills prevailing. For still our ancient foe. Doth seek to work his woe, His craft and power are great, And armed with cruel hate, On this earth is not his equal."  In words of great majesty Luther tell us that God is a mighty fortress to protect us from the wiles of the evil one. "Did we in our own strength confide, Our striving would be losing; Were not the right man on our side, The man of God's own chosing. Did you ask who that may be? Christ Jesus it is he; Lord Sabaoth is his name, From age to age the same, And he must win the battle." Few hymns set forth as clearly as does the second stanza of this hymn our absolute dependence on Christ, as our Redeemer, how it must needs be that we should be overcome by the craft and power of the evil one, were it not that "the man of our God's own chosing" is on our side. "And though this world with devils filled Should threaten to undo us, We will not fear for God hath willed His truth to triumph through us. Let goods and kindred go. This mortal life also, The body they may kill; God's truth abideth still, His kingdom is forever." Surely a marvelous expression of faith in the triumph of righteousness, and the preciousness of the eternal life, and the velue of things spiritual when compared with all else in the world. The Latter-day Saints have sacrificed kindred and friends, worldly honors and worldly goods many times for the gospel, counting all else as nothing, if not within its embrace. The Saints have held that Martin Luther was inspired of God; surely this hymn is one of the evidences of the power of God resting upon him. The Reformation, carried forth by Luther and other great evangelists, paved the way for that which is greater, the fulness of the gospel of Jesus Christ, restored through the great latter-day prophet, Joseph Smith. Luther's hymn is a real contribution to song literature, hymnology in particular, because of the exaltation of the thought and the emotion and the adequate way in which he has been able to express the thought and emotion. There is a very fine balance  observed throughout, a balance continually sought for by writers, but not often acquired. QUESTIONS A'ND PROBLEMS What do we mean by the Reformation? What period of time did Martin Luther's life cover? Into what language did Luther translate the Bible? Have someone in the class read the 46th Psalm.. Take the three expressions, "God is our refuge and strength," "A mighty fortress is our God," and "Rock of Ages, cleft for me," and see if you can trace a resemblance in the thought of each of these expressions. '6. Who made use of the first expression? Of what nationality was the poet? Who made the second expression? Of what nationality was the second writer. Who made use of the - third expression? What was the last author's nationality? 7. Of what nationality is the man who has given the Christian world the most acceptable translation of Luther's hymn in the English language? 8. If possible have your organist find the music to the hymn, and have it sung during the meeting. 9. Name some L. D. S. Composer or composers who have written both the words and music to a hymn? 10. Give some instances of Latter-day Saint hymns assisting in the conversion of persons to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. WR WN LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in October) THE HOME AND EARLY ADOLESCENCE The age from 12 to 18 In our study of moral leadership in the home, we have been concerned mainly with the general problems of providing proper environment and stimulating proper ideals. And our consideration has been confined to the lives of our small children. We must now direct our attention to the more specific problem of how to direct the lives of youth who are approaching manhood and womanhood. We shall consider this problem in four lessons. The present and following lesson will deal with the moral problems of the boy and girl from twelve to eighteen years of age. Then will follow two lessons with the period from eighteen to twenty-five years of age.  PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF EARLY ADOLESCENCE When the boy and girl passes from childhood to adulthood. There are certain very profound changes that take place physically as well as mentally. On the physical side this period is marked by very rapid growth, sometimes almost doubling the rate of growth within a single year. With many young people there is also a loss of energy, manifest sometimes in a disinclination to do strenuous work. Parents are apt to interpret this tendency as mere laziness. But before passing hasty judgment we should bear in mind that every human being has a limited amount of physical energy and if this is spent building up bodily tissues it is not available for activity. This is also the awkward period in the child's life. He seems not to have his growing limbs under proper control. This coupled with the tendency for certain parts of his body to grow more rapidly than other parts, frequently cause our youth considerable annoyance and embarrassment. But the most important physical change is of course the development of the sex functions. There is no function of the physical organism so important as that of reproduction, and unfortunately there is no function of the human body the nature of which is less understood. Some of the most serious vices develop during this early period because parents fail to teach their children the meaning and sacredness of the sexual organs. Nature's laws are God's laws and must be respected. These physical changes should be observed carefully by parents from the standpoint of both health and morals. MENTAL CHARACTERISTICS OF EARLY ADOLESCENCE These physical changes described above are accompanied by significant mental changes. This is the time of great emotional instability. Quoting from an educator of national reputation; "Fear, anger, love, pity, jealousy, emulation, ambition and sympathy are either now born or springing into their most intense life. Morally this is the time when the ideals are formed and when. Ideals clash. Because of this inner conflict, this stage is sometimes called the period of "storm and stress." This is the time, too, when there is a general religious awakening. From good authority we are informed that there are more religious conversions at this stage than any other time of life. This is the time when lasting judgments are formed and permanent sentiments established which makes it necessary for careful direction in both thought and feeling. If the child does not learn at this time to place a high value upon virtue he may never do it. If he is not impressed at this time of the great mis-  sion of religion and of his church he may always remain religiously indifferent. In all the organizations of the Church which deal with this period, we need the finest type of manhood and womanhood, mentally, morally, and spiritually, to guide them. THE BASHFUL AGE There is perhaps no time in the life of a human being when he suffers quite so much self-consciousness or bashfulness as during his early adolescence. He discovers suddenly that his feet and hands are large. He becomes aware of his awkwardness, and this feeling is intensified by a consciousness that everybody is observing him. Youths find it quite difficult to coordinate their movements as they do to control their emotions. Because of this situation many boys and girls prefer to spend considerable time alone; they hide themselves away from the eyes of adults and especially from the notice of the opposite sex. This period of self-consciousness may last only a few months, but it frequently last two or three years. During this period the youth needs the sympathy of parents and older brothers and sisters. Great precaution should be taken not to embarrass young people while they are passing through this stage and every effort should be made to get their confidence. There is no time in the life of an individual when he so needs the love of older people. He has come into a new social world, one to which he has difficulty in adjusting himself. He wants to ask questions and requires answers to them. He needs to know something about his body and its organs which heretofore concerned him very little. God is, at this stage in his development, endowing him with powers never before felt and the meaning of which he can hardly understand. The whole world seems to take on a mystery which calls for explanation. The duty of clarifying these things and pointing the way to a successful catreer rests upon father and mother. At this time parents should associate more freely with their sons and daughters. They should join with them in their activities. Every effont should be made to get into their werld of thought and emotions. If the young son or daughter falls in love at sixteen years of age, and many of them actually think they do, the parents should be the first to be told about it. And in place of ridiculing the young boy or girl, the parents should take time to talk to them sympathetically, advise and direct, but never laugh at or ridicule them. Also when the boy or girl experiences the changes of life the parents should be ready to ive the necessary information. Too often, however, the most important type of information is given to youth by immature individuals, or those who are not of the highest spiritual and moral type. This is the golden moment for moral education, and  parents too often fail to make use of the opportunity which this transition presents. References: Hall: 4 Practical Sociology, Chapter 13. Cope: Religious Education m the Family. Questions: 1. Name some of the physical characteristics of youth from 12 to 18 years of age. 2, What are important mental changes that take place at this time? 3, Give reasons why a bashful youth should not be laughed at. ' 4. When a child is inclined not to take his parents into his confidence, what is a sensible attitude for the parents to take? 5. Do you believe that the period from 12 to 18 years of age is the most appropriate time for sex education? Give your reasons. 6. What difficulties stand in the way of proper sex education? Are the difficulties insurmountable? 7. What special instruction should be given to the girls during early adolescence? What special dangers come into the lives of boys at this time? _ TEACHER'S TOPIC October I. Evils of Hallowe'en Pranks. (a) Respect for other people's rights and property a sacred obligation. (b) Seasonable and wholesome pleasures. ???? MUSIC "Music is an art in which the conception of the peautiful is in no sense based upon the physical world which surrounds us. Its power to evoke an inner dream of beauty is greater and more immediate than any of the arts. Music is a language which begins where the words end?a vision which is made clear long after the eyes can no longer perceive."