The Relief Society Magazine volume 57 November 1970 Number 11

Latter-day Saint gospel concepts taught in a fun animated story form.
Three books designed especially to assist you in teaching important gospel subjects to your children. One is entitled PRAYER, another BAPTISM, and the third TITHING.
Each book is filled with colorful illustrations and is written in a style and language that children enjoy and understand. Order your set today $2.50 for each book.
USE CONVENIENT ORDER FORM ON REVERSE SIDE
Available also through your local LDS book dealer.
Bookstore and book dealer inquiries invited.

A CHILD GOES FORTH A must for parents of young children To the preschool child, the world is a great adventure in which, when properly guided, marvelous discoveries are made every day. A Child Goes Forth will help you to make your child's early experience a meaningful part of his life. Written by Barbara J. Taylor, coordinator for the BYU Child Development Laboratory, the book is designed as a step-by-step educational activity guide. Parents of preschool children will find it to be an invaluable reference and source book in directing a child's physical, mental, and emotional development. Order your copy of this informative volume today.

BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY PRESS
ORDER FORM
Brigham Young University Press Publication Sales, 205 UPB Provo, Utah 84601 Please send me the following books PRAYER $2.50 BAPTISM $2.50 TITHING $2.50 A CHILD GOES FORTH $4.60 Add 25c for the first book and 10c for each additional book ordered to cover postage. Enclosed is my check or money order for the amount of $ Name Address City State Zip

INDWELLER
There is something in me That answers your touch upon The door, an extension of myself Hurrying to hold you, searching Caverns and cliffs of your being To be sure all is well With you. If it finds despair Oh, swift it broods, comforts, Promises planets. If it finds gaiety Then rings like a copper pendulum Across the sky to frolic with birds Or laugh you down to fishes in the Secret coral. There is something in me that runs Across town at the smallest alarm To stand beside you That prays great prayers for you Without time for kneeling. If this, then, be so And you know it to be so Laugh at distance and time Laugh at separation and deaths Laugh at the destroyer himself . . . For this extension of ourselves Can never perish.
Margery S. Stewart

The Cover: Aspen Trees Reflected in Water Transparency by Don Busath Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: Reflections at Xochimilco, Mexico Photograph by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Art Layout: Dick Scopes Illustrations: Mary Scopes

Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford General Manager Belle S. Spafford 

Contents
Special Features 803 "We Lived After the Manner of Happiness" Belle S. Spafford 808 "No One Can Endure on Borrowed Light" Marianne C. Sharp 811 "Living Water" Louise W. Madsen 814 Report and Official Instructions Belle S. Spafford 820 The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1970 Mayola R. Miltenberger Fiction 924 The Secret of Blueberry Hill Chapter 5 (Conclusion) Rosa Lee Lloyd General Features 822 Editoriali Sharing With Others Marianne C. Sharp 810 Notice to Subscribers 829 Notes From the Field Relief Society Activities 880 Birthday Congratulations The Home Inside and Out 810 A Morning Walk Enid F. Woolley 828 Friendship Memories Dora D. Flack Lesson Department 837 Spiritual Living Lesson 5 The Eternal Nature of the Gospel 843 Spiritual Living Lesson 6 Satan and Mankind 850 Visiting Teacher Messages Message 5 Respect for and Understanding of Authority 852 Visiting Teacher Messages Message 6 The Meaning of Worship 853 Homemaking Discussion 5 Proper Nutrition 855 Homemaking Discussion 6 Improving Your Mind 857 Social Relations Lesson 5 Morality Makes Sense 863 Social Relations Lesson 6 Hazards of Drugs 869 Cultural Refinement Lesson 4 And to Every Man Is Given a Gift 874 Cultural Refinement Lesson 5 Principles With a Promise Faith and Optimism Poetry 801 Indweller Margery S. Stewart 807 The Turning Year Dorothy J. Roberts 807 Christmas in Nauvoo 1843 Sadie Ollerton Clark 828 Deep White Linnie F. Robinson

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.�1970 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription price $25 a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

802 "We Lived After the Manner of Happiness" President Belle Spafford [Address delivered at the General Session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1970] Recorded In the Book of Mormon are words of— We lived after the manner of happiness? Can it be achieved in today's world? Should we strive to seek after it?" The achievement of a happy life is a Universal goal of mankind and properly so. The Book of Mormon tells us, "men are that they might have joy" (2 Nephi 2:25.) The Prophet Joseph Smith pointed out that men were endowed with certain inalienable rights, among them the pursuit of happiness. Men pursue happiness in many different ways and according to their differing concepts of what brings happiness. To some, the source of happiness is the acquisition of material wealth; to others, it is power and dominion. Yet again, it may be personal popularity and acclaim or personal pleasure; or, it may be overcoming the difficult, discovering the new, or conquering the unknown. To many of the Father's children, it is the peace that comes through obedience to his teachings. To most people, however, happiness at times seems somewhat abstract; certainly something that is transitory. Today it may be present in rich abundance, while tomorrow it may seem to have completely departed. We must learn, therefore, what constitutes true happiness—the kind that brings a certain form of inner delight, peace, and contentment, which is even more enduring than life itself. What, then, should be the pattern of our lives if we are to live after the manner of happiness? Let us consider how the people of Nephi lived when he declared they "lived after the manner of happiness." Nephi and his followers had suffered all manner of persecution at the hands of the Lamanites, even to the point that they sought to take the life of Nephi. The Lord warned him to separate from those people and flee with all who would go with him into the wilderness. The great exodus into the wilderness took place, accompanied by many hardships. At length, the group established itself at a place they called Nephi after their leader, and they designated themselves the people of Nephi. They appealed to Nephi to be their king, but he was desirous that they should have no king, but should be a free people. He became their chosen leader and teacher. Then Nephi states that they observed to keep the judgments and the statutes and the commandments of the Lord in all things. They raised flocks and herds of all kinds. They sowed seeds and harvested. They built buildings and worked in all manner of wood and of iron, and copper and of brass and of steel, gold, silver, and of precious ores which were in great abundance. They constructed a temple after the manner of the Temple of Solomon wherein they might worship the Lord their God. Then Nephi continues: "I did cause my people to be industrious, and to labor with their hands, and the Lord was with us, and we began to prosper exceedingly, and multiply in the land." (2 Nephi 5:17, 13) This, then, might be called Nephi's code for living after the manner of happiness: Freedom to choose who should be their ruler, industry, willingness to work, the development of talents and skills, love of God and obedience to his commandments. And the blessings of growth, prosperity, and happiness follow. This has been true with any nation or people who followed the eternal principles upon which true happiness rests. One of the favorite expressions of President George Albert Smith was: "The pathway of righteousness is the highway of happiness." It is not enough that we shall live after the manner of happiness for the benefit of the collective body only. The individual, too, must seek after his own personal happiness, knowing that this, too, is obtained through following the same basic patterns of living. Sometimes our personal problems bear us down and heavily tax us. Because they are hard to bear, they loom large and make deep impressions which remain with us, crowding out feelings of happiness, while the joys of life are so pleasant as to pass by swiftly. They seem to be so fleeting as almost to have been nonexistent. The memory of one's trials and the seeming fleeting nature of one's hours of happiness often lead to the feeling that there is precious little happiness in life for the individual. Yet, if it were possible to weigh both in the scales of life, I believe almost everyone would find life affords us far more true pleasure than pain. Otherwise, why does almost everyone cling so fast to life? I recall an aging sister whom I used to visit several years ago. She was physically infirm, her financial income had been quite sufficient for her needs—then suddenly it became limited. Then her busy family, while kind to her, spent less time with her than she thought they should, and she felt neglected. Each time I called on her, I heard the same question: "Why do I live on? ' 'We Lived After the Manner of Happiness" I'm growing so old and feeble; I'm so unhappy. I wish I could die!" One day, feeling particularly sympathetic toward her plight, my husband and I took her for a ride into the canyon to see the beautiful fall mountain foliage. When we were well into the canyon, we came upon some road repair work. My husband had to back the car a short distance and turn in a very narrow space. Some distance below us at the back of the car was a noisy rushing creek. "Oh!" the sister screamed, "be careful! You'll back us off the road and into the creek! We'll all be killed!" Calmly I replied, "Sister Smith, I thought you wanted to die. You've told me this many times." To this, she promptly replied, "Not today!" After we were safely on the road, she laughed and said, "You know, I'm really not as miserable as I like to make people think I am. Life has been good to me, and even now I'm quite happy." True happiness is within the reach of every one of us. Perhaps what we need is a better understanding of what are the factors that contribute to it, and how we may grasp these and make them a part of our lives. One wise philosopher has said, "Happiness consists in being, not having. It is not dependent upon wealth or even upon health. It does not rely on fame or so-called worldly success, but rather upon the conformity of our lives to those things which set at rest our minds and at peace our hearts." Latter-day Saints know that its fountainhead is love of God and obedience to his laws, and 805 November 1970 that one of its greatest sources of nourishment is love of fellowmen. Service to others is essential to joy in living. We cannot live selfishly and be completely happy.

Some of the greatest joys and happiness-promoting experiences of our lives come to us when we do for another, lifting the load, buoying up the spirit; and, conversely, some of the most poignant and enduring torments of conscience come from failure to meet our responsibility to others. Happiness is an infallible by-product of service. We know, too, that while trial may bring pain and suffering, the ability to rise above it or master it brings compensatory inner satisfactions and joy as well as eternal rewards. The development and expression of our creative abilities also result in a high degree of good feeling. I am always impressed with this when I read in Genesis the story of the creation of the earth which concludes: "And God saw everything that he had made, and, behold, it was very good." (Genesis 1:31.) Sad, indeed, would be the life of any individual who did not live creatively and productively. To be a contributor to life, within the scope of our capabilities, rather than a drone, is expected of us. In so doing, we earn a cherished reward—the happiness that comes from being useful. Thus, as individuals, we pursue happiness—through righteousness, and through service, through creative expression, through social usefulness. These things do not spring up and flourish voluntarily. They are fostered 806 through the labor of our minds, hearts, and hands.

Relief Society offers limitless opportunities to the women of the Church to nourish the essential elements of a happy life, and through the years sisters have testified that this, indeed, happens. Let me read one typical testimony, taken from minutes of the Kanab Relief Society, March 1882: Sister Morris put in over thirty years of Christian work in Relief Society. Her life, though continuously fraught with trials and hardship, has been to the outward observer like a placid river, flowing toward the Kingdom of God. When the summons comes for her to join the choir invisible and gather with that mighty throng of men and women whose garments have been washed in the blood of the Lamb and who have valiantly trodden the winepress of affliction, she will receive the Master's "well done, thou good and faithful servant; enter into the joy of the Lord." Happy, happy, happy has been her earthlife. Joyful will be her eternal life.

Another testimony, written in a letter received at the General Board office within the past few weeks, reads: I felt I should write and tell you of the recent death of our beloved Mother, Sister Lydia Larson, at the age of 91 years. For 73 years, she has been a faithful member of Relief Society, joining when she had just turned 18. She loved the Society and all it stands for. She taught her five daughters never to underestimate its worth. Mother lived a simple, beautiful life. I don't mean to say she had no hardships or sorrows; in fact, as we look back over the years, we think that perhaps she had more than her share of life's vicissitudes. But none of us remember her ever seeming to be defeated or unhappy. Her life seems to have been like a symphony of sweet thoughts, good deeds, inner strength and courage, peace and happiness. We girls all know that Relief Society brought to her the teachings, the opportunities, and the feelings of usefulness that gave her a saintly composure. Since you are now the president, we express to you our gratitude for all the Society did for Mother and for all it is now doing for her daughters and granddaughters.

Today, there is much talk in our nation about a _ volunteer army to fight our military battles. May I suggest the need of the world for a volunteer army to fight the forces of evil that are impairing man's well-being and destroying his happiness. Within the Church there is such "We Lived After the Manner of Happiness," an army with its recruits stationed in many lands—men and women who carry on the works of righteousness; men and women with faith in God who watches over his children; men and women of charity, of courage, of patience, of understanding insight; men and women who take the high path and who reach up and out and forward; men and women who stand by the ideals and patterns of life revealed by the Lord to his prophets—patterns of life, the reward of which is inner peace and true happiness.

THE TURNING YEAR
In spite of all the year turns
And autumn's form appears at horizon
Wearing both fruit and the withered leaf.
Bless and eat and burn the brown summer.
Dorothy J. Roberts

CHRISTMAS IN NAUVOO 1843
The ledger reads, "at home—all day." What welcome words for him and three small boys—to hold them on his knee, and join their play, to tell them tales of Yule and Christmas joys. The Mansion House, with fabled Christmas feast,
And throngs of happy people at the door,
Bringing their love to him, and seeking more—
His blessings for the greatest to the least.
Christmas in Nauvoo! All fears were stayed
By gaiety and dancing, music ringing,
And, at the close, the carolers' serenade
Seemed a cohort of heavenly angels singing.

We cherish now that time of precious mirth.
It was his final Christmas here on earth.
Sadie Ollerton Clark

807 "No One Can Endure on Borrowed Light'"
Counselor Marianne C. Sharp
[Address delivered at the General Session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1970]

As we study the history of the Church, we find at different periods of time that different tasks were given to the saints to accomplish. But whatever the work to be done, the words of the prophets in that day apply equally to the tasks facing us in this day. On April 6, 1863, sermons delivered by President Daniel H. Wells and President John Taylor urged the building of two edifices—the Temple at the east of us and the Tabernacle in which we are now meeting. They were asking for fifty teams to haul rock for the Temple. With all that labor, we know that it still took them thirty more years to complete the Temple. We enjoy the use of these hallowed buildings and acknowledge the prophetic words of President Taylor who said "The adverse circumstances in which this work was done will not be thought of."

We do give little thought to the sacrifices of those early saints. Today temples are being erected in the world, and an average of a meetinghouse a day is being built. It might be said that through obedience and sacrifice the saints today erect needed buildings, following the examples of our forefathers.

Today there are three areas in a woman's living which seem to me to be threatened, and about which we need to find the answers from the lips of the prophets. We need to evaluate current sophistries in the light of eternal truths.

Recently a woman said to me, "Oh, I do what must be done every day in my home but at the end of the day I think, what have I accomplished—today? Nothing!" In answer to a woman who feels this way, President Daniel H. Wells said: No person can release us from the duties that devolve upon us as individuals. We each of us should shoulder our responsibilities and rejoice to embrace the privilege of performing the duties devolving upon us to do good in the Church and kingdom of God in the last days. This is an inestimable privilege which, once neglected, may never again return. (JD 10:142.) Just last year in our Relief Society conference, President Joseph Fielding Smith said: We must work for all around us, but especially for those closest and nearest, as the best possible preparation for doing our duty in the Church. (Relief Society Magazine, January 1969, p. 4.) Then, as Latter-day Saint women, let us accept these words of the prophets and find joy in our wifely, motherly, and homemaking duties as we realize that that work is the most important work for a Latter-day Saint woman to perform, and that no other work can make up for neglecting "those closest and nearest." A second fallacy which is being heralded far and wide is the notion that a woman is selfish to bring more than one or two children into the world, that if she does she is contributing to the starvation of millions. Do these false teachers forget the great commandment to multiply and replenish the earth given to Adam and Eve? President Lee said in an address given to Relief Society: If immortality, then, is the first step in the achievement of the Lord's work and his glory, it is readily to be understood that the process by which immortality is achieved is through the bearing of mortal offspring by mortal mothers in holy wedlock and sired by mortal fathers. Woman's role in God's eternal plan of salvation has here, then, been reaffirmed. (Relief Society Magazine, January 1967, p. 6.) This present-day wicked teaching seeks to destroy the purposes of the Lord as mentioned by President Lee, "For behold, this is my work and my glory—to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man." (Moses 1:39.) A third present-day fallacy which seeks to destroy the eternal family unit is the deceptive teaching that the training a woman receives prior to her motherhood is too valuable to be wasted upon her home and children, but that she must get out into the marketplace and hand over the training of her children to others, perhaps to professionals in child-rearing. This denies obedience to the words of the Lord enjoined upon parents that they are responsible for the training of their own children. Thus we see the forces of Satan today seeking to destroy the Latter-day Saint woman's knowledge of her place in the Plan of Salvation; first, through belittling her role as homemaker; second, through limiting the number of children she should bring into the world; and third, through seeking to deny her the right and privilege to rear her own children, day by day and hour by hour. Under these circumstances what shall we as Latter-day Saint women do? Follow the leadership of the Church, obey the words of the prophets, and live so that the Holy Spirit may be our constant companion and guide. We believe in continuous revelation and we must accept it as The Lord gives it to us through his prophets, blessed beyond measure 809 November 1970 to live in these momentous days. Satan seeks to muddy the concepts of right and wrong, to deceive the unwary. No one, as President Heber C. Kimball said, can endure on the borrowed light of another. Each one's testimony lights her own path and directs her own actions. It is a time to remember "obedience is better than sacrifice and to hearken than the fat of rams." One hundred seven years ago the Temple and the Tabernacle needed to be built. Today what needs to be done? Who can see how each directive of the Brethren fits into the events of these last days? We cannot, but as Relief Society members, we can listen and obey the words of the prophets and live so that the Holy Spirit will guide us to our exaltation. & Enid F. Woolley Lonnavale, Heron, Tasmania, Australia

Your tiny feet were in such a hurry it was almost inevitable that you should stumble and fall. I lifted you up and, with loving care, administered the bathing and medication which your grazed knees required—not forgetting the comforting hug and kiss so important to the mending of hurt knees and tingling pride. In a moment or two you were off again; your pace no less swift because of the recent mishap. I knew you would fall again; but I cannot keep you safely held in my arms because of this knowledge. Rather, you must be free to run, yes, free to fall, or you will never gain the ability to go swiftly and safely on your way. I would not keep you from hurts, my little one, for in the march of life the one who arrives is he who knows how, having fallen, to scramble undaunted to his feet again; it is he who is ready to go on with the march. You must fall to stand again, wiser, stronger, and readier, and I must let you fall, must let you struggle unaided to regain your stance. This I will do; but pray the dear Lord that I may be there to help you if you cannot rise alone. Surely these things are part of a mother's sacred trust.

In compliance with the directive of the First Presidency, the Relief Society Magazine will discontinue publication with the December 1970 issue. In its place an adult magazine will be published by the Church. All the Relief Society lessons through May 1971 will be published in the Relief Society Magazine by the December 1970 issue. Any subscriber whose subscription expires in November or December may subscribe to the remaining 1970 issues by giving to the Magazine representative 25 cents for each needed issue.

810 "LIVING WATER" Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address delivered at the General Session of Relief Society Annual General Conference, September 30, 1970]

It was on a journey from Judea to Galilee in which "he must needs go through Samaria" that Christ came to a city called Sychar, "near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph." Jacob's well was there and "Jesus being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well: and it was about the sixth hour." There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water: Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink. Then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? For the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans.

Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink; thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water. The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep: from whence then hast thou that living water? Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well, and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle? Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again: But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life. (John 4:7-14.) The woman, not understanding, asked for the water that she need come to the well no longer. Further conversation ensued in which "The woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet." (John 4:19.) Christ taught her: But the hour cometh, and now is, when true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh such to worship him. The woman saith unto him, I know that Messias cometh, which is called Christ: when he is come, he will tell us all things. J 811 November 1970 Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am he. (John 4:23-26.) When she heard this wonderful declaration the woman ran back to the city of Sychar and told the people what Jesus had said to her. Many people went out to see him and invited him to stay with them. He stayed for two days and many believed his teachings. When he left to continue his journey to Galilee, the people said to the woman who first met Jesus: Now we believe, not because of thy saying: for we have heard him ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Christ, the Saviour of the world. (John 4:42.) From the very beginning of his ministry, Jesus taught of himself that he was the Christ. He again made that affirmation to the woman at Jacob's well. To each of us who thirsts there is the promise that the "living water" Christ gives "shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life." This well is constant, endless, never dry. One has but to drink, to sip, to taste, to be aware that the well within us, the living water of the word of God, if kept pure and uncontaminated, will keep us alive in the faith and lead us to eternal salvation. Because of the well within us others may be refreshed from its "living water." From each of us can emanate a spirit of goodness, of sisterliness. In Relief Society we share our knowledge of the gospel, we teach one another its truths and all virtuous and lovely things. The words of our testimonies, the actions of our lives, the loving service we give communicate the power of our desire to do those things which are 812 pleasing in the sight of the Lord. They bear witness that we have drunk from the well of living water. "Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled" (Matt. 5:6), we read in the Bible. "And blessed are all they who do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled with the Holy Ghost" (3 Nephi 12:6), the Book of Mormon further expounds. To be filled with the Holy Ghost is to have the knowledge that Jesus is the Christ which knowledge is necessary to gain eternal life. But how shall we come into possession of that knowledge? I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever; Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you. (John 14:16-17.) This Comforter is the promise which I give unto you of eternal life, even the glory of the celestial kingdom. (D&C 88:4.) The Comforter teaches the truth.

These are the days spoken of by the Lord through the Prophet Joseph Smith which "in consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men" (D&C 89:4) are difficult days in which to live. We have been warned and forewarned. Jesus said, "Take heed that no man deceive you." (PofGP - Joseph Smith 1:5.) Yet we have been promised that "whoso treasureth up my word shall not be deceived." (PofGP - Joseph Smith 1:37.) Surely this is a most gratifying promise! To be certain that all the wiles of Satan as he works with "conspiring men" cannot deceive those who treasure the word of God is reassuring. Our constant search for spiritual knowledge, our firm testimonies will stand us in good stead. When evil puts on the guise of right, we will not be deceived; when reason seems to point to false conclusions, we will not be deceived; when many in the world lean to the philosophies of men, we will not be deceived. "He that re-"

Living Water" remains steadfast the same shall be saved." (PofGP - Joseph Smith 1:11.) With the gift of living water, the well of knowledge within us, with our thirsting after righteousness and being filled with the Holy Ghost, the strength of pure faith shall guide us to live as the Lord would have us live in this world so that we merit the highest blessings of the eternal world. May this be so I humbly pray in the name of Jesus Christ, Amen.

Oy - bee ae a ee, a per Lg, A) = t=: == 4-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-0-6 6-0-0-6-0-0-00-0 0 10) POeeeeeeererssreenerses: �) = ' \ INTRODUCTION A regular feature of the Officers Meeting of the Annual Relief Society Conference is a brief report of the status of Relief Society as shown in the compiled annual statistical and narrative reports, together with a few current official instructions and recommendations. As you know, Relief Society reports presently cover a fiscal year, September 1 to August 31. Reports are not due in the General Board office until September 20. This does not allow for a compilation of the figures in I Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford Vu LEE $4 Berea "q Ty Sunssenaayines EXRADEE ARAN ee Je b - Be 8pada dtOEE EEE EE:(th FCCC CEL ECELCLELT se RO eee REHHHHHHHaaaeae aa ooo assdaansaauasaaaadsiisineceateee Vv VV Vv vy oo VV Ve VV eee ree heh hve rh time for presentation at this meeting. In reporting some activities, therefore, we have estimated growth and accomplishments for the current year in line with increases during the previous fiscal year. Precise figures will be made available to you when the reports for 1969-70 are audited and figures are compiled.

There is abundant evidence that Relief Society is growing in numbers and in its power for good, and that the programs of the Society hold the interest and meet the needs of women. We note with gratitude 813 November 1970 the power of the Society in influencing right the attitudes and conduct of its members. This is particularly pleasing as it relates to the younger members, many of whom are enrolled in campus Relief Societies.

ORGANIZATIONAL GROWTH

There are presently 523 stake Relief Society organizations, 92 mission organizations, 381 mission district organizations, 6,793 ward and branch Societies (4,777 in stakes; 2,016 in missions). During the past year, stakes have been organized in far-away Japan and in South Africa, with additional stakes being created in Australia, New Zealand, South America, Mexico, and other areas far removed from Church headquarters showing evidence of the growth and expansion of the Church.

MEMBERSHIP

Assuming the growth in membership this past year was at least equal to that of the previous year (and we are inclined to think it exceeded it), the Society has a membership in excess of 338,000 (338,213) including women of many nationalities and wide age range. The program is proving equally attractive to young and older women. We are delighted with the accomplishments of the campus Relief Societies.

This is a day when philosophies strange to Latter-day Saints are springing up with regard to woman, her rights, her relationships to her mate, her function as a childbearer and rearer and a homemaker, and her place in public life. There is a growing opinion among people 814 that it is her privilege to live and to do as she chooses, unhampered by laws that are regarded as antiquated, such as marriage and divorce laws, and moral codes that are considered outmoded, such as those that relate to childbearing, the restraints of religious teachings, and social traditions which glorify the role of woman as a mother and homemaker. Movements are springing up in this nation and elsewhere that advocate extreme viewpoints with regard to woman's role in life, and that militantly demand an acceptance of her as being totally on a par with man, ignoring the natural differences between man and woman which enter so markedly into the quality and character of woman's labors and into her primary role as defined by the Lord.

Relief Society must stand as a fortress against the penetration into the lives of our sisters of philosophies and viewpoints that are not in harmony with God's divine plan for his daughters and which run counter to the teachings of presiding Church authorities. It must do so with strength equal to the task. The teachings of Relief Society have never been more urgently needed than they are today to help our sisters wisely to order their lives, to shape right their thinking and attitudes and influence their conduct, and to enable them properly to meet the responsibilities placed upon them by the Lord.

Relief Society leaders owe it to Latter-day Saint women to be tireless in helping them to know and appreciate the values of Relief Society and the benefits of actively participating in its work.

MEMBERSHIP DUES

While new rulings of the Church have dispensed with the payment of membership dues, we call your attention to the regulation contained in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions that admittance to membership is by vote of the members present. Reports reaching the General Board indicate that this important regulation is sometimes neglected. This should not happen. Even though membership dues have been eliminated, membership cards will continue to be issued annually to all enrolled sisters in recognition of and as evidence of membership.

PROGRAM CHANGES; FUNDING

Two major changes have taken place in Relief Society programs in recent months at the direction of The First Presidency. One is the change in the funding program from self-financing to financing through a Church budget system. This applies to all units of Relief Society, including the General Board. It relieves the Society of independently conducting fund-raising programs, including the holding of bazaars.

With reference to bazaars, a letter dated July 17, 1970 from The First Presidency, addressed to All Stake Presidents, Bishops, Mission Presidents, District Presidents, Branch Presidents, and Auxiliary Heads of General Boards, states: "The Relief Society is hereafter to be supported from the budget, as have been other auxiliaries in the past, which will relieve the Relief Society of the burden of fund-raising projects such as bazaars." Should plans for this year be already under way and money expended for materials, it might be well to consider continuing the project for this year only, but in the future the new policy stated above should be followed. The new funding program became effective with the beginning of the current fiscal year, September 1, 1970.

Relief Society presidents were directed to turn over to their respective presiding priesthood authority all cash on hand as of that date. The plan contemplates that a careful estimate of budgetary needs for the forthcoming year will be considered with the respective priesthood authorities and that these will be met through the ward or stake budget in a way that will not curtail approved programs and activities of the Society.

The methods whereby money from the budget is made available to Relief Society by the local priesthood and the system of accounting to the priesthood for disbursements will be determined by the brethren. It is anticipated that Relief Societies will enter in their respective record books the income received from the budget and also the amount of disbursements and the purposes for which these were made. The compiled figures on income and disbursements no doubt will be included in the annual reports.

Definite instructions will be mailed to you later regarding this. We suggest that in estimating budgetary needs, Relief Society presidents keep in mind such essentials as record books, visiting teacher report books, essential supplies, lesson textbooks for organization use and lesson aid materials; materials and equipment, including sewing machines where needed for the homemaking program, as well as a modest allowance for luncheon items on homemaking day; essential nursery equipment and supplies, bearing in mind that some of these can be made by the sisters during the homemaking meeting; music, the Anniversary Day program and spring and fall socials, which are so conducive to the happiness of the Society. (Social activities have always been an integral part of the program of Relief Society. May I remind you that they should always reflect the dignity and high social standards of the Society? We especially refer to fashion shows.)

NURSERIES

In some instances, nurseries have entailed considerable costs. Insofar as reasonable and possible, we suggest that unpaid help be used in the nursery program. Where this is not reasonable nor feasible, the matter should receive careful consideration by the presidency and an appropriate recommendation should be made to the local priesthood authority for his consideration, approval, and financial support. It would seem that under no circumstances would anyone other than the sister in charge of the nursery be on a paid basis.

The nursery program has definite bearing on the enrollment and attendance of young mothers, for whom Relief Society teachings are so essential. We remind you that the program is most satisfactorily carried out where one woman is continuously in charge, with as much help being given her as the number of children demands. Plans should include care of infants who have their own carriages, bassinets, or other types of carriers which do not require the infant to be held in arms throughout the period of the Relief Society meeting.

HOMEMAKING PROGRAM

The new ruling with regard to bazaars has given rise to many questions related to the Homemaking Program. Sisters, we feel this program, while altered by change, is excitingly promising. The focus will be changed from volume of production of items, an important consideration in what is produced, to a focus on activities that will have direct bearing on their value to the individual members and their individual homes. In the Presidencies Department of this Conference, suggestions and recommendations of the General Board will be given which we feel confident will inspire and challenge you and which should bring new vitality to the Homemaking Program.

HOMEMAKING PACKET

The General Board has collected a packet of booklets and leaflets on a wide variety of subjects to aid homemaking leaders in planning homemaking meetings. The booklets contain factual, authentic information on many facets of homemaking. The packet may be obtained by stake and mission homemaking leaders at a cost of $2.50. Only one packet can be allowed for each stake, mission, or mission district.

QUILTING

We are of the opinion that there is no objection to the continuation of the traditional art and skill of quilting under the following regulations:

1. Custom quilting with earnings turned over to the bishop or branch president to apply on Relief Society's budget allowance.
2. Quilting for individual members of the Society where the individual provides the materials and the sisters willingly donate the quilting labor.
3. Quilting on infant or plain quilts as a means of teaching this art and skill to Relief Society members with Relief Society buying the material and the quilt being disposed of at cost by decision of the presidency to a needy member or other deserving sister.

MAGAZINE DISCONTINUED

Another major change in our program is the discontinuance of The Relief Society Magazine by action of The First Presidency effective with the December 1970 issue. We realize, sisters, that the discontinuance of the Magazine after fifty-six years during which it has served the Society well and been a source of inspiration, instruction, enlightenment, an interchange of ideas, as well as providing an outlet for the creative writings of the women of the Church, brings feelings of sadness to our hearts. We must remember, however, that with the growth and expansion of the Church, changes must be anticipated, accepted, and adjustments to new ways and new programs made with willingness and faith in the inspiration that guides our leaders.

The General Board is giving prayerful consideration to how all of the essential services rendered by the Magazine through its various features may be met in new and effective ways. As you know, lessons for use through May 1971 will appear in the Relief Society Magazines issued during the balance of the 1970 year. Lessons thereafter will be issued in manual form, with the lesson helps continued. Full details with regard to the manuals, such as contents, costs, where they may be obtained, will be mailed to you as soon as this information is ready.

Conference addresses heretofore published in the Magazine will be included with the other Conference material distributed in mimeographed form following the Conference. It has been deemed advisable to discontinue the poem and short story contests, at least for the time being. Should they be reopened, you will be notified. The music contest, of course, will be continued.

The General Board acknowledges with grateful appreciation the faithful and capable services of the sisters who through the years have held the office of magazine representatives. We regret the loss as officers of the sisters presently holding the position of magazine representatives, either on the stake, mission, or district boards, or in ward or branch organizations.

RECORD BOOK CHANGES; HANDBOOK OF INSTRUCTIONS

The termination of the Relief Society Magazine and the change in the method of financing Relief Society automatically require changes in the information to be called for in the record books as well as in the annual reports for 1970-71. Time and decisions yet to be made have not allowed for new record book fillers to be printed as yet. Kindly use the current fillers, omitting information affected by the changes.

Changes also affect regulations in the Handbook of Instructions which is already undergoing revision.

EDUCATIONAL PROGRAM

Time this morning does not allow for even a brief review of all of the courses of study for the 1970-71 year. We suggest a careful reading of the Previews published in the June 1970 issue of the Magazine. Sisters, please preserve this issue for reference.

It is felt that mention should be made of the new spiritual living course "The Pearl of Great Price" planned as a three-year course. Through the study of The Pearl of Great Price, Relief Society women will have an opportunity to learn new truths, receive verification of truths known in other scriptures, and gain an increased testimony of the divine mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith.

One can read the entire Pearl of Great Price in less than two hours. It was recommended in the preview that every member of Relief Society read the book from cover to cover before the first lesson was presented. Those sisters who did not do this should still be encouraged to do so.

The Cultural Refinement Course offers a special kit containing copies of four art masterpieces available through the Deseret Book Company outlets in Utah and California. (Price $2.00.)

SECOND SESSION RELIEF SOCIETIES

Second session Relief Societies have the full endorsement of the General Board. Instructions for conducting them, issued by the presiding Church Authorities, remain as originally issued and are published in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions.

Some stake Relief Society presidents express concern that in some wards the new MIA Mutual Interest Program is regarded as obviating the need for second session Relief Societies scheduled for evenings. We are assured by our Advisors that there need be no conflict; that one program does not duplicate nor substitute for the other in purpose or activities.

NEW STAKE BOARD MEMBER FOR LAMANITE AND/OR FOREIGN LANGUAGE GROUPS

Since the all-Lamanite and foreign language societies are growing in number and leadership strength, and are eagerly seeking more help directed toward their special needs, the General Board recommends that in English-speaking stakes where either or both groups are located, that the stake Relief Society president consult with the stake president with a view to having a sister called to the stake board for this special and needed service.

The sister called to this office would work with either group as needed. Where there are both types of organizations in a stake or mission, she would serve both. The qualifications of the sister for this special calling would need to be carefully considered.

STATISTICAL FIGURES

Statistical figures give evidence of advances in almost every facet of Relief Society work. (The following figures are estimates for the 1969-70 year based on actual increases of the previous year):

Visiting Teaching: approximately 5,412,401 visits—an increase of 175,000 made by more than 150,195 visiting teachers.

Eight-hour days bedside nursing care of the sick: 47,592 or an increase of 5,574 days.

Visits to the sick and homebound: 379,182 visits. There was a decrease of over 7,000 visits in this important service. Presidents, please take note of this and urge ward presidents not to neglect the homebound.

Other compassionate services: 806,608 hours, or an increase of 33,536 hours.

Church Welfare Visits to Families under the direction of bishops: 71,802 visits, or a decrease of 12,000. However, 73,931 other contacts authorized by bishops were made by Relief Society presidents to families needing special attention. There were over 50,000 Relief Society members who assisted on welfare projects during the 1969-70 fiscal year.

Report and Official Instructions

MUSIC

Music, which has brought joy and development to Relief Society members, as well as a spirit of worship to our meetings, continues to improve. Singing Mothers choruses are proving to be missionary instruments. The 3,919 choruses report a combined membership of 49,689 singers. The Singing Mothers rehearsals should not be scheduled during the hours of the regular Relief Society meetings. It is often a convenience to the singers, however, to hold them prior to or following the meeting.

REGIONAL CONFERENCES

The General Board appreciates your support of and participation in priesthood directed Relief Society sessions of the Regional Conference. It is requested that minutes be taken of these meetings.

CONCLUSION

Sisters, this is an exciting and challenging period of time to be identified with this great worldwide sisterhood, bound together in love and priesthood guided and directed. The protective watchcare of the Lord under whose direction Relief Society was founded has been over us continuously for over 128 years. This and the inspired guidance of the presiding Priesthood Authorities have led us to our present position of worldwide influence and strength. It will ever be so if we are obedient to priesthood direction and humbly and prayerfully seek the help of an all-wise Heavenly Father.

THE RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL

The 1970 Relief Society Annual General Conference held September 30 and October 1 in Salt Lake City, now belongs to history, but will long be remembered as one of particular significance. Relief Society sisters from Johannesburg to Helsinki, and from Tokyo to London, from Sydney to Pago Pago, as well as from towns and cities nearer by, gathered to hear words of inspiration and admonition, to learn together, and to rejoice together during the conference.

The prophet, President Joseph Fielding Smith, former advisor to Relief Society, addressed the sisters, gave them counsel and his blessing. His devoted companion, Sister Jessie Evans Smith, was also present and offered the invocation in the General Session. Sister Joan Freda Lee, wife of President Harold B. Lee of the First Presidency, offered the benediction in the same session.

Highlighting the Conference were addresses by several General Authorities of the Church. Elder Marion D. Romney, an advisor to Relief Society, reviewed changes which have occurred in patterns of family life. He urged the sisters to "build the home, strengthen the family by teaching the gospel in the home." He appealed to mothers to assume more parental responsibility and to Latter-day Saint women to recognize the divine nature of the institution of the family.

A stirring address was delivered by Elder LeGrand Richards on the Lamanite program; Elder Thomas S. Monson, advisor to Relief Society, spoke with sincerity and conviction, decrying the evil influences rampant today against woman's fulfilling her divine destiny. Elder Boyd K. Packer gave vital instruction as to how women might support and further the Family Home Evening.

President Belle S. Spafford's Report and Official Instructions to the Society membership was of special importance as it dealt with matters of far-reaching consequence relating to changes in policy for Relief Society. Members of the Relief Society presidency addressed the large Conference sessions and gave encouragement and suggestions to the sisters for achieving happiness in life. They emphasized obedience to the principles of the gospel so that the Holy Spirit might be a constant companion and guide.

Months of preparation preceded the long trip to Salt Lake City of approximately 150 Singing Mothers from Chicago Stake, who rendered music for the Officers Meeting as well as for the Presidencies Department. A combined chorus of approximately 400 Singing Mothers, under the baton of Sister Ellen N. Barnes of the General Board, sang for the General Session of Relief Society Conference and also for the Friday morning session of the Semi-Annual Conference of the Church. Both choral groups were accompanied by distinguished Tabernacle organists, Dr. Alexander Schreiner, Dr. Robert Cundick, and Elder Roy M. Darley.

On Thursday morning, October 1st, the Conference visitors were directed into eight different departmental meetings held simultaneously throughout the City, where the detailed "how to" part of the Conference was given. New vitality was given to homemaking with the presentation during the Conference of a program focused upon activities which have value for individual members and use within their own homes. This year's homemaking display absorbed the interest of all who viewed the wide range of ideas presented by means of demonstration and exhibit. Among practical suggestions were those dealing with new sewing techniques, knitting, different uses of quilting, macramé, and picture framing.

The new Relief Society educational programs for the coming year were presented, with women learning everything from how to communicate better with family members, to how to read and sing together as family members. The world sisterhood, into which the women of the Church have been unified, was apparent. Even though not all comprehended the meaning of the polite bows and the "Ohyo gozaimous" of the Japanese sisters, or the "Como esta usted" of those from Mexico, yet their gestures were translated into a feeling of understanding and love, which permeated the 1970 Conference.

GE 821

EDITORIAL / Sharing With Others

Sharing is of major concern to a Latter-day Saint. Joy in owning a treasure, whether it be one of spiritual import or material value, gives the most pleasure as it is shared with others. So it was in the days of the Savior when he would instruct the healed person to go and tell no one, but invariably he could not keep the good news to himself but ran and told others to rejoice with him.

Sharing the joys which come from Relief Society membership and attendance gives the greatest satisfaction to a member. She longs to share her experiences with her friends, her mother, her grandmother.

She is "bursting" to tell how her eyes have been opened to a truth of the gospel and how she can apply it in her own life, or to tell of a new way to accomplish a household task with less effort. Sharing the blessings of Relief Society calls upon a woman often to give service. She may travel quite a distance to pick up a sister with very small children, or an older sister who cannot walk so far, that they may share the joy of Relief Society. There are found in every organization those who share themselves in this way. Visiting teachers share themselves to a marked degree as they make their visits twelve times a year to share sisterhood with those they meet in Relief Society and likewise those who do not attend. Magazine representatives have also shared with all sisters in the organization as they have placed the Relief Society Magazines in the Latter-day Saint homes. Now this sharing is drawing to a close and such service will no longer be required, but what blessings have been earned by Magazine representatives over the years! This sharing exemplifies rendering service while the opportunity presents itself which, when removed, ends the opportunity. Happy is any woman who, at the conclusion of an activity, views her sharing as having been satisfactorily concluded. Not to share oneself with others in the workings of Relief Society might be compared to the man who buried his talent and received no increase and was condemned. Under the new financing program for Relief Society the time spent in sharing one's talent toward making money has been returned to Relief Society members but that time should now flow into sharing oneself more than ever with the sister who is in need of charity, the pure love of Christ. This basic aspect of Relief Society will now be accentuated and another aspect along with it—that is the time which a sister can devote to perfecting her own living standards and her own home surroundings. All the sisters can freely share their talents with each other in the homemaking meeting and have the time to share their friendships and themselves as never before. As one contemplates the increased time in Relief Society at the disposal of the sisters for their own perfection and the sharing of themselves, the heart lifts and exciting vistas open up as Relief Society moves forward as the Prophet Joseph said, being directed "through the order of the Priesthood which God has established in these last days." As Relief Society obeys the priesthood directives, the work of Relief Society will be magnified among men and its members made to rejoice. 

M. C. S. Leone G. Layton Celestia J. Taylor Myrtie R. Olson Orlene J. Poulsen Aleine M. Young Belva B. Ashton Alice C. Smith Marjorie M. Reeve Alberta H. Christensen Oa J. Cannon Elaine B. Curtis Ada J. Jones Winniefred S. Manwaring Lila B. Walch Zeima R. West Helen G. Lach Mary R. Young Lenore C. Gundersen Leanor J. Brown Aline R. Pettit Fanny S. Kienitz Marjorie C. Pingree Reba O. Aldous Johna de St. Jeor Elizabeth B. Winters Darlene C. Dedekind Luella W. Finlinson Beverly J. Pond Alice L. Wilkinson Edythe K. Watson Norma B. Ashton Inez T. Waldron Irene W. Buehner Ellen N. Barnes Maurine M. Haycock Anna Jean B. Skidmore Hazel S. Love Kathryn S. Gilbert Amy Y. Valentine Helen W. Jeppson Fawn H. Sharp Verda F. Burton Marian R. Boyer Arlene S. Kirton

The Secret of Blueberry Hill Rosa Lee Lloyd Chapter 5 (Conclusion) 

A Lila pushed Johnny back on the bed. Her voice was gentle. "Try to relax, Johnny. Norman should rest, too. He's been up all night." She spread an old quilt over them. "Please, Johnny. Remember how Aunt Lucinda said that sometimes patience was. The answer to the problem."

"Okay, okay," Johnny said reluctantly. He looked sideways at Norman lying beside him. '"She's making sissies out of us," he scoffed. "Eighteen karat sissies!"

"I like it," Norman grinned. "Say, fellow," Johnny's eyebrows puzzled together, "how did you get back to Skylark after your plane landed?"

"Walked to Kansas City to the hospital there. No planes were coming this way, so after the doctor set my arm, I rented a car and headed for Skylark."

"Boy!" Johnny whistled. "Lila, | think you don't deserve a guy nutty enough to drive all those miles with one hand."

Lila smiled at them both. "Quiet, Johnny," she coaxed. "Sleep awhile." She sat down in the old rocker looking up at the white tip of paper in the sagging ceiling. At last she could tell by Norman's and Johnny's rhythmic breathing that they were asleep. She tiptoed up the stairway. She wanted to find out if the piano was above the place where the letter was poking through. Now, looking at it, she was sure it was over the very spot.

The piano had been against the wall—when a wall was there—she thought ruefully. Piece by piece, she moved some bricks from in front of it. If she could peek under the piano she might see the other part of the letter. She got down, bending her head to the floor, but the effort was in vain. There was nothing to see but more plaster and leaves swept in by the tornado.

Elizabeth was right, she thought as she got to her feet; no calamity had the perversity of a tornado. It would skip some structures and leave others a pile of rubble. Johnny's car had been sucked up, houses had disappeared, but the old piano had been spared. Her eyes blinked. There at her feet were the remains of Aunt Lucinda's Dresden clock. The china was broken, some of it crumbled when she touched it. The hands of the clock had stopped at three-thirty.

She took the pieces downstairs and put them in the paper sack Scott had brought the strawberries in. She would try to glue them together someday. The afternoon sun was bright against the windows. Lila took a clean cloth and wiped off some of the grimy dirt so she could see the highway clearly. She was eager for Steven and Elizabeth to return. She was as impatient as Johnny, she thought, smiling to herself. Her heart quickened as she watched the highway.

A boy on a bicycle was riding toward Clover Street. Lila knew it was Casey coming back alone to a home that was no longer there. Her heart reached out to him. Casey had been born in the little house next door fourteen years ago. There hadn't been time for Mrs. Wilkins to drive fifty miles to a hospital. Lila had watched Casey grow up. He was one of their own!

As she stood there at the window watching him, he lifted "The Secret of Blueberry Hill" his bicycle above the clutter on the front lawn, carried it to the old oak tree and leaned it against its trunk. Then he bent his head against a broken limb and Lila knew he was weeping. Her first thought was to run out to him. He had just come from the funeral. He would feel empty and forsaken. No doubt he had been manly and brave, but now, Lila realized, he needed to cry. He thought he was alone, that no one could see him, so, at last, he let the tears flow freely. She remembered that old oak tree was a symbol of strength to Casey as it was to all of them. It was something to cling to in the devastation that surrounded them; it typified a hope that they, too, could survive and bloom again. Lila went back and sat down beside the bed. She would let Casey have this moment alone. Boys didn't want anyone to see them cry, and Casey was a very manly boy. We've all had to grow up in the last few days, she thought pensively. Almost an hour passed before a horn honked in front. Voices called out. A moment later footsteps shook the ceiling and it sagged dangerously. Plaster sifted down in several places. Elizabeth was first to come down the stairway. Steven followed. Then Casey. His face was pinched and his eyes were swollen, but his shoulders were straight. Scott put his arm around him. Johnny sat up rubbing his eyes. Norman swung his long legs over the side of the bed and stood up. Steven went directly to Johnny 825 November 1970 and unwound the bandage on his hand. Then he and Elizabeth inspected it closely. They said something to each other that Lila couldn't hear but it must have meant that his hand had improved because they smiled and slapped Johnny on the back. Elizabeth sat down on the chair Scott pulled up for her. Then he took over in his authoritative way. "The trailers have arrived," he said. "They are in the parks, so we can leave here now—the quicker, the better. I've been concerned about this ceiling. A minute ago it nearly caved in. We should have been more careful and come across one at a time." "Look," Johnny interrupted. "Up there. See that paper tip? It could be Aunt Lucinda's letter. We'd better get out, quick, as Scott says, but we'll get that letter first!" "It might be under the piano," Lila told them. "I think it is. I found pieces of the Dresden clock under the plaster near the piano." Johnny pointed his finger at her accusingly. "That little spy! She kept Norm and me prisoners down here and went up there snooping!" Steven said, "Calm down, Johnny." He looked around the cellar. "There isn't anything worth taking with us. We'll cross that floor up there one at a time. Johnny first, then Norm because they need to protect a hand and an arm, then Lila and Elizabeth." "But the letter," Lila insisted. "Please, Steven." 826 "We'll try, Lila Bob," he answered kindly. "But our safety comes first. I want that letter as much as anyone. Scott and Casey and I will lift the piano when you are all outside." "I can lift it alone, Steven," Casey offered. Steven patted his shoulder. "We'll help," he laughed. "Now let's move that crossbeam over there under the place where the piano is." "It might help," Scott agreed. "Let's start moving out of here." When it was her turn to go, Lila carried the paper bag with the old clock up the stairway and across the trembly floor. Norman and Johnny were waiting for her. Then Elizabeth came safely across. They watched fearfully as Casey, Scott, and Steven came up one at a time and stood ready to lift the old piano until one of them could search under it. It was decided that because Casey was limber and young, he would take an old rake from the basement and look through the rubble. Lila covered her eyes. Norman put his good arm around her and held her. Dear Heavenly Father, she prayed, don't let anyone get hurt. Minutes passed. It seemed like a century to Lila. Then Norman said, "Open your eyes, Lila Bob. Casey found the letter. The old piano is back on the floor again, holding its own. Here they are safe and sound." "I love that old piano!" Elizabeth said. "I'll keep it forever." "Casey," Scott said. "Bring your bike. We'll put it in the trunk. There's plenty of room in my car for all of us." Dr. "I have to take that rented car back uptown," Norman explained. "Let's all get in Scott's car first while we read the letter," Lila suggested. "Right here where we lived with Aunt Lucinda." They crowded in close together. Steven turned the letter over in his hands. "Casey did a good job pulling this out. Only one rip. I can fit that together," he said. Lila bit her lip to hold it steady. Steven began in his quiet voice.

My dearest children:

It has been my constant prayer, from the moment you came to live with me, that I could rear you in the true McIntyre way. I wanted you to grow up to be responsible, capable, self-supporting men and women, a credit to yourselves, your family, your Church, and your country.

Keep this in mind as you read this letter so you will understand why I did what I felt was the right thing under the circumstances. One morning years ago, shortly after you all came to live with me, I went up to Blueberry Hill to pick berries for jam and jelly. I went early before any of you were awake. Imagine my surprise when I found the top of the hill a sticky mass of black oil. I stooped and touched it, hardly able to believe my eyes. Oil was oozing out of the ground all around me. Oil everywhere! I was almost overcome with the significance of this condition. If this meant what I thought it meant, I was a potentially rich woman, indeed.

Now I know what most women would have done in my position with four little children to rear, a moderate salary, and a small insurance from your parents. But I am not like "most women." I am Lucinda McIntyre with my own set of rules and ideas and I have learned through long, hard experience as a teacher and principal of a school that children must work and struggle for success.

I was afraid that if you children knew there was an oil dome on my property you would think you could take life easy and let me pay your way. You knew The Secret of Blueberry Hill

I loved each one of you beyond anything in this life; you might take advantage of my love and become wastrels.

I stood there on Blueberry Hill that morning and promised the Heavenly Father and myself that I would keep it a secret until you had made successful men and women of yourselves. At Christmastime when you all come home, I intend to tell you the secret. Elizabeth and Steven can have money for their hospital; Johnny can start an art school for beginners, Lila can have an antique shop if she wants one. My prayer for her is that she will quit daydreaming and grow up. She should look around her for the real man who has always been there when she needed him. My added request is that you see that Casey Wilkins has an education in one of the worthwhile professions, so he will be able to care for his mother and little Pearl.

Steven's voice faltered. Lila saw Casey swallow hard. Then Steven went on: I trust your wisdom in using this legacy wisely. If Heavenly Father decides that my work here is finished, then I leave this letter for you all, my dearest children.

With my heart's love and devotion and an earnest prayer that you will rear children of your own in the right way, I am forever,

Your Aunt Lucinda

There was a long, breathless silence. Lila looked through her tears at the faces of each one. Elizabeth wept openly. Steven's dark eyes deepened with feeling. Johnny wiped his eyes with the back of his fingers as a little boy would do. Norman's hand tightened around hers. Casey was looking at the oak tree. His eyes glistened with the promise of youth as though he was already thinking of what Aunt Lucinda expected of him.

Scott Harrington's voice was husky. "What a splendid woman she was," he said reverently. "One in a million."

Steven said, "She knew each one of us better than we knew ourselves."

"If I'd had money," Johnny said, "I wouldn't be worth a hoot. Today, I can hold my head up with the good cartoonists because of her wisdom."

"Her real legacy to you all," Scott went on, "is not the oil on Blueberry Hill. It's the way she taught you to live and work and help each other."

"You are right, Scott," Elizabeth murmured. "That is the legacy we must pass on to future generations. I would like to call our hospital the 'Lucinda McIntyre Memorial Hospital.'"

"A perfect name," Steven agreed. "It will be a sort of shrine for everyone who knew her," Casey said.

Lila noticed the love and respect in his young voice. She lifted her eyes to Blueberry Hill as she walked to Norman's car with him. This was the way Aunt Lucinda would want it to be, she thought, as they drove along the highway together.

# DEEP WHITE

Oh, swift the passing of the golden hours.
And summer lies beneath a deep, deep white;
Only the trees stand motionless and bare
Naught else remains but what is out of sight.

Yet, here upon this northern mountain steep,
The magpies and the blue jays come for food;
With cedar waxwings in great clouds of grey,
And on each tiny twig their soft breast brood.

They find the apples that escape men's eyes,
All frozen now to feed each hungry bird;
They wake the landscape with their grace of flight,
And with flashing colors my heart is stirred.

& Friendship Memories

Dora D. Flack
Linnie F. Robinson

One of my dear friends revels in choice memories as she works in her yard, for it is filled with plants from the gardens of her friends. Instead of thinking of the drudery of weeding and cultivating, she remembers pleasant hours and the love of the friends who gave the plants.

I have a year-round memory garden in my kitchen—in a recipe box. As I contemplate making goodies for my family, I thumb through my recipe file, and my friends crowd back to visit. At the top of each card is written the name of the friend from whom the recipe was obtained. The friends are scattered far but are still a part of my life.

Silently I thank them for the goodness in food and spirit which they have left in my home and heart over the years.

828

FROM THE FIELD

io 'yy Of TLL 2 4

Utah State University Stake Relief Society Presents "May Shoo," May 16, 1970
Members of the Relief Society board of the Utah State University Stake, left to right: Bonnie Goodwin, organist; Carol Wilkinson, Magazine representative; Kath Rosier, Education Counselor; Helen Bingham, social relations class leader; Vicki Lynne Popp, Homemaking Counselor; Ramona Smith, former president; Cathy Lynne Campbell, Secretary-Treasurer; Jane Bradshaw, visiting teacher message leader; Carol Israelsen, cultural refinement class leader; Dorothy Cannon, President; Judy Morgan, chorister.

Sister Cannon reports: "All of the sisters in our stake are single college students. We presented a social themed 'May Shoo,' and over 300 girls attended in addition to special priesthood guests, and General Board members Alice C. Smith, Inez T. Waldron, and Anna Jean Skidmore. Our guest speaker was Sister Dorothy P. Holt of the YWMIA General Presidency.

"Our retiring stake Relief Society President Ramona Smith was paid special honor. A luncheon was served, and several booths with instructions on how to make artificial flowers, cakes, breads, quilts, trousseau and other items were featured in the cultural hall.

"We were especially pleased with the effective way the Relief Society program was presented and the delightful way in which it was received by the girls."

829

November 1970

Rexburg Stake (Idaho) Honors Visiting Teachers 1970
Seated in front, former presidents of the Archer Ward Relief Society, left to right: Opal Clemants; Rachel Sutton; Erma Magleby; LaVerne Hacking; Evelyn Grover; Edna Mae Wilcox, present President.
Sister Magleby, now President of the Rexburg Stake Relief Society, reports: "Under the direction of Cleo J. Johnson, former president, Rexburg Stake Relief Society, the visiting teachers from our stake were honored with a special program with the theme 'Go Beyond the Door.'

"Special tribute was paid to the Archer Ward visiting teachers who are pictured. These sisters have attained an outstanding record of one hundred percent visiting teaching over the past twenty-five years. We are very proud of them and the other visiting teachers in our stake who work so hard."

Long Island Stake (New York) Presents Springtime Bazaar, May 2, 1970
Ann G. Ames, President, Long Island Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our springtime bazaar was under the direction of Gabriella Tuerpe, our Homemaking Counselor, assisted by Edith Abbott, Education Counselor. It represented the efforts of the six wards in the stake.

"A lovely French market place was the distribution point for lovely handmade articles. A French luncheon was sold at a sidewalk cafe where the visitors were served by MIA girls in peasant costumes.

The bazaar was a financial success and an inspiration in cooperation, increasing the feeling of stake unity and love among the sisters in the stake." Yakima Stake (Washington) Presents Fashion Show and Luncheon, May 23, 1970 Left to right: Elaine McPhie, homemaking leader, Yakima Stake Relief Society; Beverly Zitting, Secretary-Treasurer; Joyce Bohne, Second Counselor; Marie Tecumseh, Counselor, Wapato Lamanite Branch Relief Society; Joan Gibb, First Counselor, Stake Relief Society; Evelyn Conrad, President. Sister Conrad reports: "A fashion show and luncheon with the theme 'Old to New' was enjoyed by the sisters of our stake. The table decorations were antique treasures filled with fresh lilacs and other spring flowers. Old trunks, refinished furniture, made-over toys, and many other articles were displayed. The fashion show featured the sisters from the wards modeling beautiful clothing they had made from used materials. There were over 200 sisters in attendance who were inspired with the lessons on thrift and resourcefulness they learned from one another. The sisters from the Wapato Lamanite Branch displayed cradle boards and many beautiful items of handwork." 830 November 1970 Billings Stake (Montana), Billings Ward Holds Bazaar, March 20, 1970 Left to right: Jennie L. Baird; Elaine B. Holden; Margorie A. Dixon, President, Billings Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Billings Ward of our stake held a most successful bazaar just prior to Easter. A popular booth was the 'Bounties From the Bunny' booth. It was a white basket with pink decorations. The booth was filled with pastel shades of Easter items and gifts. The president of Billings Ward Relief Society is Eunice S. Larsen. Her counselors are Peggy P. Madsen and Janet W. Snyder." 830 November 1970 Pago Pago Stake (American Samoa) Holds First Singing Mothers Concert, May 22, 1970 Vaimaila Fa'amausili, President, Pago Pago Stake Relief Society, reports: "The theme for the first Singing Mothers concert ever held in our stake was 'A Night of Song.' Eight wards and branches were represented by 147 Singing Mothers who raised their voices in song and praise to our Heavenly Father under the direction of stake chorister Toai Leulua'i and organist Fuiono Si'uf anua. They sang in a beautiful setting of native flowers and greenery. The program was planned and coordinated by the stake board members with stake President Patrick L. Peters presiding. We were very pleased with how well this inspiring evening turned out." 830 November 1970 Brigham Young University Sixth Stake Singing Mothers Present Concert, Sing at Fireside and Commencement Services, May 3, 29, 1970 Dawn H. Cowan, President, Brigham Young University Sixth Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our Singing Mothers presented a concert to 150 persons in the afternoon, and that evening performed to over 2000 at a ten-stake fireside in the fieldhouse. The dean of one of the colleges was so impressed that he invited them to perform at the convocation of his college during commencement exercises. We were very honored by this invitation, as the deans have their choice of all singing groups on campus. Our chorister was Rosemary Williams, and accompanying the group was Roberta Dahl. With this success as a guideline, we hope to make a spring concert an annual affair." 832 November 1970 Texas East Stake Relief Society Presents "A Stranger Within Our Gates," and Holds Literary Contest May, 1970 Left to right: Ruth Moss, cultural refinement class leader, Texas East Stake Relief Society; Nellie Delese, first place poem winner; Lavoice Evans, President, Texarkana Ward Relief Society; Carolyn Zaugg, cultural refinement class leader. Lola A. Wade, President, Texas East Stake Relief Society, reports: "Our May workshop was very successful, featuring paintings, music, handwork, fashion, and food demonstrations. A presentation of the play 'A Stranger Within Our Gates,' thrilled everyone. An exciting part of the program was the reading of the poetry entered in the stake poetry contest. We were grateful for the participation in the contest and the enthusiasm the sisters have for Relief Society." 832 November 1970 Columbia River North Stake (Washington) Singing Mothers Present "Come Unto Me," May 16, 1970 Front row in dark dress: Alvaretta Wirth, chorister; to her right: Maridon Nielsen, violin accompanist. Seated at the piano: Janice Gilman. Gentleman who narrated: Roy H. King. Elizabeth S. Barton, President, Columbia River North Stake Relief Society, reports: "Sixty-two Singing Mothers performed to an audience of more than 300 persons in the first event held in our new stake house. They presented the very inspiring 'Come Unto Me.' Our soloists were Dorothea Moultrie, Mary Kilgore, and Peggy Martin. A trio was formed by Louise Davis, Marilyn Allen, and Charlotte Pestinger. We were most pleased with this lovely presentation. Refreshments were served and a Relief Society Arts Display from the wards and branches was enjoyed by our guests." 832 November 1970 Panguitch Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Perform For Visiting Teachers and Stake Conference April 25, May 31, 1970 Front row, at left: Verda Tebbs, director; to the right of sister in dark dress: La Ree Huntsman, accompanist. Marjorie R. Crofts, President, Panguitch Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Singing Mothers from our stake performed at our annual visiting teachers convention. Theme for the program was 'Come Unto Me.' As the sisters sang, appropriate pictures of the Savior and scenes of beauty were projected on a screen. It was a lovely program. The sisters also performed for our stake quarterly conference. They have enjoyed singing together and enriching the lives of others." 834 Oakland-Berkeley Stake (California), Berkeley Ward Unveils Sculptured Plaque at the Relief Society Birthday Celebration March 17, 1970 Sculptress Elaine Brockbank Evans pictured with plaque she sculptured for the Berkeley Ward Relief Society depicting the organization meeting. Charlottie B. Smith, President, Oakland-Berkeley Stake Relief Society, reports: "Over 250 ward members and guests viewed a lovely plaque sculptured by Elaine Brockbank Evans and presented to the Berkeley Ward Relief Society. The bronze plaque was designed to fit into a large niche above the mantel in the Relief Society room. The plaque depicts the organization of Relief Society with the eighteen women, the Prophet Joseph Smith, John Taylor, and Willard Richards. Sister Evans did considerable research and obtained photographs of many of the people pictured. At the presentation she gave an inspirational address regarding her research and enjoyment of the project. She is a well-known artist, having sculptured many things for the Church, including the Adam and Eve statue which was first unveiled at the Mormon Pavilion of the New York World's Fair." 836 Lesson Department SPIRITUAL LIVING: The Pearl of Great Price S Lesson 5 The Eternal Nature of the Gospel Reading Assignment: Moses, chapters 6, 7, 8 Northern Hemisphere: First meeting, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First meeting, July 1971 OBJECTIVE To highlight the justice of God in providing the plan of salvation to Adam and his posterity and to emphasize the security this gives every Latter-day Saint woman. INTRODUCTION In a world which has, by and large, rejected a literal understanding of early biblical characters, the miracles of Jesus, and the revelations from God to his prophets, it is reassuring to Latter-day Saints that they can believe in all of these things because of the restoration of the gospel of Jesus Christ.

The existence of God as a personal Being, the divine sonship of Jesus Christ, the existence of miracles, the gifts of the Holy Ghost, and the knowledge of revelation today are a part of a Latter-day Saint's life. The criticism of the Bible which arose in the nineteenth century began a movement to destroy faith in these fundamental beliefs, though some of them had long since departed from the minds of many "Christians." Adding this movement to destroy faith to the fact that God's priesthood and gospel teachings were lost to man through a great apostasy, it is understandable why the Lord would, in the last dispensation, provide the means for a renewed faith in his work and in his ancient prophets. The modern books of scripture—Book of Mormon, Doctrine and Covenants, and Pearl of Great Price—provide this basis for faith and understanding.

GOSPEL PLAN

The fullness of the gospel of Jesus Christ reveals man's origin and the gospel's origin. All men lived in a premortal world where the gospel of Jesus Christ was known. Men elected to come to earth in order that experiences might be gained which would bring them back into God's presence where, as resurrected beings, they might receive the blessings of godhood. Such, in brief, was the plan, but that plan meant obedience to principles and ordinances which would test man's faith in God. So, if we look for the origin of man and the gospel, we must look to the beginning before this earth was created, and even before that, for both man and the gospel are eternal.

REVELATION

A significant difference between Latter-day Saints and some other people is the knowledge that God is a personal Being and that we are his spirit children. Because of this understanding we know that God has communicated his will to his children on earth that they may progress to eternal life. The first vision received by Joseph Smith opened the heavens whereby a continuous communication was set up between God and his faithful children. Consequently, Latter-day Saints are not unsettled in their beliefs concerning the plan of salvation. Their way of life is one of complete trust in a loving Father who is solicitous for their welfare. He provides faith and knowledge for man to learn his purposes, even from the beginning.

Men have learned the following key to assist them in their beliefs, regardless of what those men who lack this faith and understanding may say: Everything we know about God and our relationship to him comes from revelation, for only he knows the end from the beginning. Man unaided by revelation is left to ferret out his way in life, stumble, fall, move slowly, veer from the path of truth seeking to know but never coming to a knowledge of the truth.

The depository of revelation of the past is found in the standard works of the Church.

Question for Discussion

What benefits do you receive or have you received because of your faith in the principle of continuous revelation?

DISPENSATIONS OF THE GOSPEL

From a study of the books of revelation, one will recognize certain religious periods from Adam to the present known as dispensations. The span of 7,000 years of the earth's continuance or its temporal existence may be divided into seven such dispensations. (D&C 77:6.) In each of these periods God has revealed his will to man, providing him with the way to be saved and the priesthood power by which this is possible.

The period from Adam to Noah, sometimes called the patriarchal dispensation, may include the dispensations of Adam, and of Enoch, up to Noah. (B. H. Roberts, comp., "Outline History of the Dispensations of the Gospel," The Seventy's Course in Theology, second year [Salt Lake City: Skelton Publishing Co., 1908], p. 37.)

Other dispensations are those named for Noah, Abraham, and Moses; the meridian of time or Christian; and the dispensation of the fulness of times. (Ibid.)

The word dispensation means to dispense and, as used in this lesson, means the dispensing by God of the gospel and the priesthood.

That God revealed to Adam and the people before the time of Christ the way of salvation is "new" doctrine to the "Christian" world. But to Latter-day Saints it is revealed knowledge, substantiated in the writings of the prophets, past and present.

THE GOSPEL OF JESUS CHRIST

The gospel of Jesus Christ consists of the principles and ordinances which make it possible for man to be saved in the presence of God. We learn that man may be saved in a kingdom of glory through his repentance, but this salvation does not provide the fullness of joy attainable through obedience to the fullness of the gospel. (D&C 88:22-24; 93:26-28.)

Laws of the gospel are concerned primarily with man's regaining the presence of God (D&C 76:50-52, 61-62), and with the exaltation of man in the celestial kingdom. (D&C 131:1-4; 76:54-60.)

When the gospel is defined in the scriptures, it generally refers to salvation in God's presence. The gospel, so defined, consists of the atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ and the first principles and ordinances of the gospel—faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance of sin, baptism by immersion, and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost. (3 Ne. 27:13-22; D&C 33:9-15; 76:40-42, 51-52.)

Lesson Department

The Prophet Joseph Smith wrote: We may conclude, that though there were different dispensations, yet all things which God communicated to His people were calculated to draw their minds to the great object, and to teach them to rely upon God alone as the author of their salvation, as contained in His law. (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, comp. Joseph Fielding Smith [9th ed.; Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1956], p. 61.)

The gospel consists of many other principles and ordinances that assist man to endure to the end.

A gospel dispensation exists when the saving principles and ordinances and the priesthood to administer the ordinances that bring man back into the presence of God are on the earth.

ONLY ONE GOSPEL

A fundamental truth of revealed religion is that there is only one gospel that saves. (Gal. 1:6-9; Eph. 4:4-6; D&C 133:36; Joseph Smith 2:18-20.)

President Wilford Woodruff said: All the teachings of the Patriarchs and Prophets have shown us but one Gospel. There is but one Gospel, there never was but one and there never will be. The Gospel revealed for the salvation of man is the same in every age of the world. (JD 16:263-64.)

Question for Discussion

Why do you think the Lord instituted only one gospel?

BIBLICAL TEACHINGS

As a Latter-day Saint examines the Old Testament, he becomes more aware of Nephi's understanding of what would happen to that book of scripture. Nephi foresaw the day when it would go through many hands, resulting in "many plain and precious things [being] taken away." (1 Ne. 13:26-28.) Nephi also saw that with this partial word of God going forth among men, "an exceeding great many do stumble, yea, insomuch that Satan hath great power over them." (1 Ne.

13:29.) As a consequence, many truths essential for man's understanding are lost from the Bible and, therefore, the creeds of men do not include the fullness of gospel truth. As indicated in another lesson, the name of Jesus Christ does not appear in the Old Testament. (Lesson 2.) The ordinance of baptism and the laying on of hands for the gift of the Holy Ghost are also absent. Other fundamental teachings are either not given or are given in an indefinite manner; yet New Testament prophets refer to the gospel of Jesus Christ as existing in the days of Abraham and Moses. (1 Cor. 10:1-4; Heb. 3:14-19; 4:1-2.) About Abraham, Paul wrote: And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the heathen through faith, preached before the gospel unto Abraham, saying, In thee shall all nations be blessed. (Gal. 3:8; see also verses 16, 17, 19, 24-26.) THE ADAMIC DISPENSATION Adam was an historical person, one who lived and breathed, learned the laws of God, and sought to live them. The First Presidency, in 1909, wrote the following: Adam, our great progenitor, "the first man," was, like Christ, a pre-existent spirit, and like Christ he took upon him an appropriate body, the body of a man, 840 and so became a "living soul." (Improvement Era, November 1909, 13:80.) Moses' vision of the creation of man, recorded in the Pearl of Great Price, informs us that Adam was the first man to become a living soul upon this earth. (Moses 3:5-7.) In like manner a revelation to Joseph Smith states that Abel received the priesthood from his father—Adam "who was the first man." (D&C 84:16.) What did Adam know concerning the gospel of Jesus Christ? Before his transgression and after he became mortal, Adam knew God, his Eternal Father. (Moses 6:51.) He knew that Jesus Christ is the Only Begotten Son of God (Moses 6:57), and that he would atone for the sins of man. (Moses 6:54.) Adam learned that his sins could be remitted by faith in Christ, by repentance, baptism by immersion, and the baptism by fire and the Holy Ghost. (Moses 6:58-66.) Although the book of Genesis does not give the reason for sacrifice, Adam was taught the law of sacrifice that he might keep in remembrance the atonement to be made by Christ in the meridian dispensation. (Moses 5:4-8; Gen. 4:1-7.) From the Doctrine and Covenants we learn that Adam received the Holy Priesthood that he might preach the gospel and administer the ordinances thereof. As a high priest and patriarch, he called his posterity together at Adam-ondi-Ahman and predicted what would befall them unto the latest generation. (D&C 107:40-56.) Eventually the faithful living since the time of Adam will be sealed family to family under the sealing powers of the priesthood restored by Elijah. (JD 9:269; D&C 110:13-16.) According to Abraham, the sacred higher ordinances of the gospel were known to Adam, Seth, Noah, Abraham, and others in that early age. (Facsimile No. 2 from the Book of Abraham, Figs. 3, 7, 8.) THE DISPENSATION OF ENOCH The Bible records ten verses about Enoch, seven in the Old Testament and three in the New Testament. Only two verses in the Old Testament give information about Enoch, while the others are genealogical. (Gen. 9:18-19, 21-24.) Enoch prophesied of Christ's second coming, and he was translated because of his faith. (Jude 14; Heb. 11:5.) In the Pearl of Great Price we learn that the development of great wickedness among men brought a commission to Enoch to cry repentance unto the people and to reveal the calamities which would befall them if they did not repent. (Moses 6:26-30.) Important in that dispensation was the great vision Enoch saw of the future extending down through the flood, even unto Christ and into the last dispensation when the second coming of Christ would occur. (Moses 7:23-67.) Enoch, a contemporary of Adam, walked with God. (Moses 6:39.) He knew of the fall of Adam, of the first principles and ordinances of the gospel— including the atonement of Jesus Christ. (Moses 6:40-68.) Great was the power of Enoch to perform miracles, but also he was mighty in teaching his people the gospel. (Moses 7:13, 16.) The law of consecration, Lesson Department revealed in our dispensation, was practiced by his people, and because of their righteousness they were taken up into heaven and will return in a day of righteousness to meet the people of the New Jerusalem on the American continent. (Moses 7:18-21, 62-64.) DISPENSATION OF NOAH The vision given to Enoch revealed that the inhabitants of the earth would be destroyed by water and that his great-grandson, Noah, would repopulate the earth. (Moses 7:42-45; 8:1-11.) Latter-day Saints believe that the great flood which covered the earth in the days of Noah was literal. The destruction of the inhabitants of the earth, with the exception of eight individuals, was due to extreme wickedness. (1 Pet. 3:18-20.) In that day when "every man was lifted up in the imagination of the thoughts of his heart, being only evil continually," Noah and his sons gave heed to the Lord's commandments. (Moses 8:13, 22.) Although there had been no break in the line of righteous men since Adam, the increasing wickedness of men and the need to warn them of the judgment which awaited them made necessary a dispensation of the gospel to Noah. (D&C 84:6-17; Moses 8:19-27.) Noah taught the people of his generation the gospel of Jesus Christ—faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, repentance, baptism, and receiving the Holy Ghost—by the authority of the Holy Priesthood. (Moses 8:19, 23-24.) The greatness of Noah in the eyes of God was mentioned by the Prophet Joseph Smith who said that Noah was next to Adam 841 November 1970 in authority in the priesthood, and that the Lord "continued to him the keys, the covenants, the power and the glory, with which He blessed Adam at the beginning." (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 171.) The time of Noah, when the wicked were destroyed by water, was mentioned by the Savior as typical of the last days when the wicked inhabitants of the earth would be destroyed by fire. (Joseph Smith 1:38-45.) Thus, the earth, a living organism, was baptized in the days of Noah, and it will be baptized with fire and with the Holy Ghost. (Discourses of Brigham Young, comp. John A. Widtsoe [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1941], p. 393.) DISPENSATION OF ABRAHAM A subsequent lesson will treat the subject of Abraham and his seed; therefore, only a few matters relative to Abraham's dispensation will be given here. From the Book of Abraham we learn that Abraham received the priesthood, the same authority conferred upon Adam. (Abr. 1:2-4.) Because of his faithfulness to the Lord's commandments, Abraham was promised that his posterity would consist of many nations. Also, through his seed, the priesthood should be received and the gospel taught among the nations. (Abr.

2:8-11. Great was the understanding of this patriarch for he received revelation regarding the creation of the earth and man, of the premortality of all men, of the doctrine of foreordination, and of the purpose of life. (Abr. 3:19-28.) Paul declared that Abraham taught the gospel of Jesus Christ. (Gal. 3:8.) Although the Book of Abraham is not a complete record of Abraham's activities, it is clear that not only did he have the priesthood, but also the gospel. (Abr. 2:6, 10.)

DISPENSATION OF MOSES
From the Book of Moses we have learned that this great lawgiver in Israel knew of the creation of the earth, of all living things, including man. (Moses 2; 3.) He also knew of the doctrines of premortality and the Godhead. He recorded the account of the fall of Adam and Eve, of the gospel of Jesus Christ given to Adam and his posterity, and of the priesthood which administered these truths. According to a modern revelation Moses taught the children of Israel, whom he led out of Egyptian bondage, how men might see God. They would not become sanctified, however, so the higher priesthood was taken from the earth, and the lesser or Aaronic Priesthood continued after Moses's death. (D&C 84:18-27.)

Question for Discussion
How does your study of the dispensations of the gospel confirm the belief that the gospel of Jesus Christ was on the earth before the time of Jesus' mortal ministry?

IMPLEMENTATION
Several important truths have emerged from our discussion which should promote in the Latter-day Saint woman greater faith in God and in his concern for his children. While the world lacks information regarding God's plan for all of his children, we, by the light of revelation, are able to see the way of salvation from the beginning to the end. The gospel of Jesus Christ, as restored, promotes faith in Bible fundamentals that have been set aside largely as non-existent, myth, or legend. Also, the modern books of scripture, especially the Pearl of Great Price, give information which has presented a logical and reasonable understanding of the justice of God. Latter-day Saints know that God created man in his own image, for he has revealed himself in person and through ancient records and modern revelation received in our generation. They know that God is just, and that he governs his creations by unchangeable law. (John Taylor, Mediation and Atonement [Salt Lake City: Deseret News Co., 1882], pp. 162-64; D&C 88:34-40.)

In this truth, Latter-day Saints have a security which brings peace to their souls. One evidence of the justice of God is the fact that fallen man, living under the penalty of spiritual death (banishment from the presence of God), was given the means of his redemption in the beginning. And thus the Gospel began to be preached, from the beginning, being declared by holy angels sent forth from the presence of God, and by his own voice, and by the gift of the Holy Ghost. And thus all things were confirmed unto Adam, by an holy ordinance, and the Gospel preached, and a decree sent forth, that it should be in the world, until the end thereof; and thus it was. Amen. (Moses 5:58-59.)

By the redemptive act of Jesus Christ who came in the meridian of time, men are saved through obedience to the gospel, whether they lived before his atonement or after. (Moses 6:57-61; D&C 20:25-28.) It is the design of God that all dispensations will be welded together from the last to the first through the sealing powers of the priesthood and the practice of salvation ordinances for the dead. (D&C 128:18.)

SPIRITUAL LIVING
The Pearl of Great Price Lesson 6—Satan and Mankind
Reading assignment: Moses, Chapters 1, 4, 5 and Abraham, Chapter 3

Northern Hemisphere: First meeting, March 1971
Southern Hemisphere: First meeting, August 1971

OBJECTIVE
To help the Latter-day Saint woman understand the reality of Satan and to encourage her to use revealed knowledge to counteract his deceptions.

INTRODUCTION
The Prophet Moses was told that when men would lose faith in his writings, the Lord would raise up one who would be like unto Moses, that the words of the Lord might again be found among the children of men. (Moses 1:41.)

November 1970
As one compares the Book of Moses in the Pearl of Great Price with the writings of Moses in the Bible, it is apparent that this prophecy is literally fulfilled in the revealing of the Book of Moses to the Prophet Joseph Smith. Unto Joseph, son of Jacob, it was known, but not preserved in the Bible, that there would be a seer raised up in the last days, whose name would be Joseph. This Joseph's father would also be named Joseph, that is, Joseph Smith, Sr., father of Joseph, the choice seer of the latter days. (2 Ne. 3:6-9, 17.)

This prophecy came from the brass plates carried by Lehi from the old world. The Book of Mormon also attests to the truth that Moses received the words of the Lord, for the brass plates contained "the five books of Moses [Genesis through Deuteronomy], which gave an account of the creation of the world, and also of Adam and Eve, who were our first parents." (1 Ne. 5:11.)

One of the important contributions of the Pearl of Great Price to our knowledge of the world in which we live is the reality of Satan. Latter-day Saints may look upon the few references to Satan or the devil in the Old Testament as a deliberate attempt to nullify the concept of Satan as a personage of spirit opposed to God. Nephi was informed through revelation that many plain and precious things would be taken from the Bible which would cause people to stumble in unbelief. In fact, the angel told him that because of these deletions from the Bible "Satan hath great power over them." (1 Ne. 13:24-29.)

The first time the name Satan is mentioned in the Bible is in the First Book of the Chronicles (21:1), and his name appears in only thirteen verses in the Old Testament, ten of which are in the Book of Job. The devil, or devils, are mentioned only four times in the Old Testament. The book of Genesis records that it was the serpent who tempted Adam and Eve. (Gen. 3:1-2.)

Some critics of the Bible have concluded that because of the few references to Satan in the Old Testament, the Jewish people acquired the idea of Satan at a later date, probably from the Babylonians. This view of the Bible indicates a belief in the evolution of religious ideas rather than viewing them as being revealed from God.

THE BOOK OF MOSES AND SATAN
In the eight chapters of the Book of Moses, the name Satan appears twenty-eight times. Satan is referred to as the devil. (Moses 4:4.) It is evident that in the beginning a knowledge of the devil as an individual was had, according to the revelations. (2 Ne.

2:17; D&C 29:36-37; 76:25-29.) Examples of scriptures in the Book of Moses which refer to Satan, but are lost from the Bible are: (1) the temptation of Moses (Moses 1:12-22); (2) the temptation of Adam and Eve (Moses 4:5-12; cf. Gen. 3:6); (3) the origin of Satan (Moses 4:1-4); (4) the temptation of the sons and daughters of Adam and Eve (Moses 5:13); (5) Cain and Satan (Moses 5:17-23; cf. Gen. 4:2-7); and (6) other references to Satan's power that are not found in the Bible. (Moses 5:28-31, 38, 49, 52, 55; 6:15, 29, 49; 7:24, 26, 38, 57.) Class Discussion Take one of the incidents involving Satan from the book of Moses and show wherein it is of value to you. Latter-day Saints know Satan to be an individual spirit-being. President George Q. Cannon, a counselor in the First Presidency in this dispensation, wrote: Satan exercised his agency and became the devil. He loved evil and chose it. We have no doubt that in the beginning, before he became totally abandoned, he was taught the right way, he was pleaded with, entreated, and prayed for. The revelations teach us that he was an angel of God, that he was, in fact, a son of God. He had the same opportunity of choosing the good that Jesus had; but he was disobedient and rebellious. He fought against the Father and became a fallen angel, even a devil. He could do this because he was a free agent. [Abr. 3:27-28; D&C 29:36-38; 76:25-28] (George Q. Cannon, Gospel Truth, comp. Jerreld L. Newquist [Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1957], pp. 137-38.) How Satan became an enemy of God is made known in the Book of Moses. Satan's actions in the premortal council when the plan of salvation was presented and adopted by the followers of God, and his rebellion, are there revealed. (Moses 4:1-4.) Elder James E. Talmage, an apostle of this dispensation, wrote the following about Satan: We have had occasion to refer frequently to the author of evil among men. This is Satan [Job 1:6-22; 2:1-7; Zech. 3:1-2], the adversary or opponent of the Lord, the chief of evil spirits, called also the Devil [Matt. 4:5, 8, 11; 1 Peter 5:8], Beelzebub [Matt. 12:24], or the Prince of Devils, Perdition [D&C 76:26], and Belial [2 Cor. 6:15]. The Lesson Department figurative appellations dragon and serpent are applied to Satan when reference is made to his fall [Rev. 12:9; 20:2]. We learn from the revealed word [D&C 76:25-27; Isa. 14:12] that Satan was once an angel of light, then known as Lucifer, a Son of the Morning; but his selfish ambition led him to aspire to the glory and power of the Father, to secure which he made the pernicious proposition to redeem the human family by compulsion; and, failing in this purpose, he headed an open rebellion against the Father and the Son, drawing a third of the hosts of heaven into his impious league. [D&C 29:36-37; Moses 4:3-7; Abr. 3:27-28; Jesus the Christ, pp. 8-9; Rev. 12:4.] (James E. Talmage, Articles of Faith {Salt Lake City: The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 1968], p. 62.) SATAN'S WORK A summary of Satan's work is given to Moses by the Lord, as follows: And he became Satan, yea, even the devil, the father of all lies, to deceive and to blind men, and to lead them captive at his will, even as many as would not hearken unto my voice. (Moses 4:4.) Evil, that which is morally bad or wrong and wicked, comes from the devil, whereas good, virtue, and truth, come from God. (Al. 5:40-42; Eth. 4:12; Moro. 10:18; 2 Ne. 2:18.) Satan is aided in his deceitful practices by legions of evil spirits, in fact, one-third of the premortal hosts of men. Without attempting to give all of the activities of these evil beings, perhaps the following will help one to recognize the extent and universality of the wickedness of which they are capable. In addition to being the father of lies and an enemy of all righteousness, he tempts men not to pray (2 Ne. 32:8), to lie (D&C 10:25-26), to contend with each other (3 Ne. 11:29; Moro. 9:3), to murder each other and kill the prophets (Eth. 8:25), and to war with each other (1 Ne. 12:19). He goes forth deceiving the nations, "to and fro in the earth, seeking to destroy the souls of men." (D&C 52:14; 10:27.) By blinding men's eyes and hardening their hearts, he leads them carefully that they may lose their souls. (1 Ne. 12:17.) What are some of the vices which accomplish this end? Pride, power-seeking, riches, and the vain things of the world are only a few. (3 Ne. 6:15.) These and other vices influence men to seek after harlots, to be angry at the words of the prophets. (Al. 39:11; 2 Ne. 33:5.) Question for Discussion How may pride, power-seeking, riches, or other vain things of the world tend to destroy the souls of men? SATAN'S MISERY The key to understanding the misery of Satan and his cohorts is his opposition to the Eternal Father and to His Only Begotten Son. Mormon defined charity as the pure love of Christ. (Moro. 7:47.) Feeling no love for God and Christ, the devils have ceased to love one another. Hatred, malice, and revenge have replaced love, resulting in unhappiness, wretchedness, and misery. Because there is no love in them, they do not promote the welfare of others. Hatred of good urges them to seek the unhappiness of others and thus their torment is complete. 846 SATAN'S POWERS ARE LIMITED The fallen spirits who tempt mankind "have their bounds, limits, and laws by which they are governed or controlled," said the Prophet Joseph Smith. (Joseph Smith, Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, comp. Joseph Fielding Smith [Salt Lake City: Deseret News Press, 1938], p. 208; D&C 121:4.) We know, for example, that the devil cannot tempt little children. (D&C 29:47.) The Lord has said that the devil tempts men that they may be agents unto themselves, and thus they may know the bitter from the sweet. (D&C 29:39.) In order for man to receive the test of faith required of those who shall enter into God's salvation, the means to determine faithfulness to laws and commandments became a part of the eternal plan. Consequently, the principles upon which earthlife is set up are in harmony with the divine purpose. None may feel secure in the idea that Satan is to blame for one's sins, however. The Prophet said: "The devil could not compel mankind to do evil; all was voluntary." (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, p. 187.) He further stated that many blame their own evils upon the devil, but if this were the cause of all our wickedness, then men could not be condemned.

Class Discussion "We believe that men will be punished for their own sins, and not for Adam's transgression." (Article of Faith 2.)

THE DEVIL'S POWER OVER CAIN

Following the transgression, Adam and Eve taught their children righteousness, but Satan came amongst their children, saying: I am also a son of God; and he commanded them, saying: Believe it not; and they believed it not, and they loved Satan more than God. And men began from that time forth to be carnal, sensual, and devilish.

(Moses 5:12-13.)

The record then states that Cain and Abel were born. (Moses 5:16-17.) "And Cain loved Satan more than God." (Moses 5:18.)

Cain's offering to the Lord, commanded by Satan, was rejected by the Lord, but Abel's was accepted. The promise was given to Cain that if he did well, he would be accepted, otherwise, he would become Satan's. (Moses 5:18-23.) Prophetically, Cain is told that the abomination of lies, secret combinations, and murder, would be in future times "had from Cain." (Moses 5:25.)

Cain "rejected the greater counsel which was had from God." (Moses 5:25. Joseph Fielding Smith, The Way to Perfection [6th ed.; Salt Lake City: Genealogical Society of Utah, 1946], p. 98.)

Secret combinations and works of darkness continued from this time.

Lamech's sin was the slaying of Irad, son of Enoch, not for gain, but "he slew him for the oath's sake." (Moses 5:49-51.)

The spread of the works of darkness seemed to be rapid, for God cursed the men who did not hearken unto his voice. (Moses 5:52-57.) These secret combinations continued because Satan had great hold on the hearts

Lesson Department of men, resulting in wars, and "a man's hand was against his own brother, in administering death, because of secret works, seeking for power." (Moses 6:15.)

Two great civilizations upon the ancient American continent were also destroyed because of the power of the devil and the wickedness of men. And they were kept up by the power of the devil to administer these oaths unto the people, to keep them in darkness, to help such as sought power to gain power, and to murder, and to plunder, and to lie, and to commit all manner of wickedness and whoredoms. (Ether 8:15-16.)

The historian Moroni testified that these abominations caused the destruction of the Jaredites, who preceded Lehi's colony on the American Continent, and also the destruction of the Nephites. (Ether 8:21-23.)

Satan would seek through secret combination to "overthrow the freedom of all lands, nations, and countries." (Ether 8:25.)

LATTER-DAY CONDITIONS

Nephi, a Book of Mormon prophet, saw latter-day conditions as they exist today. Some of those conditions are: denial of miracles; contention among churches; teaching that sins will be forgiven by God, so lie a little, and cheat; the teachings of men rather than the Lord's teachings being preferred; and being angry with God. (2 Ne. 28:1-20.)

Belief in the existence of the devil has waned over the years until verbally and by actions a great many have fulfilled Nephi's knowledge of our times—"there is no hell I am—no devil, for there is none." (2 Ne. 28:22.)

And thus, the devil, a real, living spirit-being, "grasps them with his awful chains, from whence there is no deliverance," awaiting the judgment of God. (2 Ne. 28:22-23.)

Nephi knew that some who live in Zion would exclaim: "All is well!" There would also be those who would follow the teachings of men and reject the revelations of God. (2 Ne. 28:25-30.)

Of all of these, the following is given:

Cursed is he that putteth his trust in man, or maketh flesh his arm, or shall hearken unto the precepts of men, save their precepts shall be given by the power of the Holy Ghost. (2 Ne. 28:31.)

AIDS TO PREVENT DECEPTION

The devil and his spirit followers are attempting to lead men away from the truth, even to the denial of Satan's existence. It is not necessary for the devil literally to take possession of a mortal being's body, as he has done on numerous occasions; in most instances the means of deception are more subtle. He "leadeth them away carefully down to hell." (2 Ne. 28:21.)

"And others will he pacify, and lull them away into carnal security Others he flattereth away he whispereth in their ears." (2 Ne. 28:21-22.)

Satan's methods are clever and deceitful, even to planting a few false ideas about fundamental truths amidst all the truth one might believe, for the false notions could prevent a person from becoming a true disciple of the Lord. (Orson Pratt, Journal of Discourses, 13:73 [hereafter referred to as JD].)

What means has the Lord placed in his gospel to prevent his saints from being deceived? Among the many truths the Lord has revealed in this dispensation, the following are appropriate to this lesson.

First, acquire a testimony that Joseph Smith is a prophet, to whom the Lord revealed eternal truth, the truth that saves in this life and in the eternities to come. (See Spiritual Living lessons in the Relief Society Magazine, October - December 1969, January 1970.)

Second, know that the gospel of Jesus Christ was given to the Prophets Adam, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, and Moses in the beginning and is eternal.

If we are to be strengthened against the deceptions of Satan, we must recognize that he is a real personage. Third, acquire knowledge of gospel teachings that they may be a guide in discerning truth from error.

Joseph Smith said: "As far as we degenerate from God, we descend to the devil and lose knowledge, and without knowledge we cannot be saved." (Joseph Smith, History of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, ed. B. H. Roberts [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1957], 4:588 [commonly called Documentary History of the Church; hereafter referred to as DHC}.)

Fourth, follow the prophets and apostles and the standard works of the Church, to dissolve conflicts between the ideas of men on what to believe or how to live. (D&C 52:9, 36.)

In an epistle of the Quorum of the Twelve Apostles in 1839, the following is given:

Be careful that you teach not for the word of God the commandments of men, nor the doctrines of men, nor the ordinances of men, inasmuch as you are God's messengers. Study the word of God, and preach it and not your opinions, for no man's opinion is worth astraw. Advance no principle but what you can prove, for one scriptural proof is worth ten thousand opinions.

(DHC 3:395-396.)

Fifth, hold fast to the words of the First Presidency and the apostles, prophets, seers, and revelators. (D&C 124:45-46.)

Seek present knowledge to combat the evils of the day by knowing what counsel the brethren give today. The principle of continuous revelation is with this Church to guide and direct the destinies of this people.

Sixth, live so that the Holy Ghost may be a guide and a direction in your life. One must seek for the gifts of the Holy Ghost to avoid deception. (D&C 46:7-10.)

Close observance of the commandments maintains the companionship of the Spirit.

(D&C 1:31-33.) Class Discussion Evaluate the foregoing six points as aids in preventing the deception of Satan. SUMMARY The Book of Moses in the Pearl of Great Price substantiates the truth that Satan was on the earth in the beginning and that he is the being who has sought to destroy the gospel of Jesus Christ and its influence among men. By the deletion of the foregoing fact from the early books of the Bible, Satan has caused people to stumble and to reject the principle of revelation from God in that early Lesson Department period. From the Book of Moses, however, we learn that Satan is a real spirit-person and the creator of evils that have continued to place men in his power. Regardless of the theories of men relative to Satan's nonexistence, the world today demonstrates that his power is real. The counterfeit is always present when the truth is revealed. With the loss of revelation from God, men have sought revelation from mystic sources, from spiritualists, and other forms of communicating with the other side of the veil. President Brigham Young said it was revealed to him "that in proportion to the spread of the Gospel among the nations of the earth, so would the power of Satan rise." (JD 13:280.) How, then, may the saint judge between the false and the true idea? Mormon has given this standard: But whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do evil, and believe not in Christ, and deny him, and serve not God, then ye may know with a perfect knowledge it is of the devil; for after this manner doth the devil work, for he persuadeth no man to do good, no, not one; neither do his angels; neither do they who subject themselves unto him. (Moro. 7:17.) President Joseph Fielding Smith gave the following key to truth: If members of the Church would place more confidence in the word of the Lord and less confidence in the theories of men, they would be better off. I will give you a key for your guidance. Any doctrine, whether it comes in the name of religion, science, philosophy, or whatever it may be, that is in conflict with the revelations of the Lord that have been accepted by the Church as coming from the Lord, will fail. It may appear to be very plausible; it may be put before you in such a way that you cannot answer it, it may 849 November 1970 appear to be established by evidence that cannot be controverted, but all you need do is to bide your time. Time will level all things. (The Utah Genealogical and Historical Magazine, October 1930, 21: 155.) President Heber C. Kimball gave the following sage advice: If we permit the devil to have power over us, and we are seduced by him, and we crouch down under his power, then he will have dominion over us. Upon the same principle, we let sin have power over us, but it has no power over us unless we subject ourselves to it. (JD 1:204.) The gospel of Jesus Christ projects the happiness that may be ours in this life and the joys of eternity, if we reject Satan and choose that righteousness which will lead us to eternal life. Finally, the counsel of Lehi to his sons is most pertinent: And now, my sons, I would that ye should look to the great Mediator, and hearken unto his great commandments; and be faithful unto his words, and choose eternal life, according to the will of his Holy Spirit. (2 Ne. 2:28.) OA VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES � Truths to Live By (Correlated with the Family Home Evening Manual, 1970-71) Message 5 Respect for and Understanding of Authority Northern Hemisphere: First Week, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: First Week, July 1971 OBJECTIVE: To realize that to accept, understand, and respect authority is a mark of maturity. "Behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them: and behold a voice out of the cloud, which said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him." (Matt. 17:5.) How many of us are pleased with him? How many of us hear him? At Jesus' baptism in the winding Jordan River and at his transfiguration on the high mountain, our Father in heaven attested to the authority of his Son. By him we are to be led; to him we are to look for guidance and counsel. Do we? Does the world? Are we not looking at a rejection of him and his authority by many on the earth? We live in a strange time of violence, riots, disregard and disrespect for authority. Many young people brought up in a climate of freedom, but without the necessary accompanying sense of responsibility, live irresponsible lives, threatening, at times, freedoms that have been painfully won. Many of us find it difficult to accept authority just because authority exists. The little child who in anger kicks his mother or father is expressing an idea toward and about authority that many of our generation exhibit in more sophisticated or more violent ways. If the Lord's work is to be done, there must be goals, planning, and order. There must be those who are entrusted with and carry out these responsibilities. Of them is expected the highest caliber of leadership. From those who have not been given the supervision of these tasks, there is expected the utmost understanding, obedience, and cooperative effort. Those who hold authority need constantly to reread the advice given in the scriptures as to how authority is to be exercised, for, by their use of authority, they help or hinder others. Authority is to be used with persuasion, not dictation or demand, with long-suffering, gentleness, meekness, and love unfeigned. Would children or adults reject authority if this was their image of it � kindness and pure knowledge so that one understood with a good spirit? Sometimes man, being what he is needs reproof, but then afterward he who has administered it is to show forth an increase of love to the reproved. How Lesson Department difficult is this to do? How might one do this? If authority fairly, justly, mercifully, lovingly, and righteously is exercised, does this not encourage respect for it and cooperation with it? The Lord demands much of one who holds authority, be he a parent or some other governing person. Because the authority toward our youth may have been less than it should have been, and because of mistaken and immature ideas of what freedom really is, many of us may have partly hostile ideas about, and response to, authority. Part of our growth toward maturity is to shed our misconceptions of what authority is and does. We must come to understand not only with our minds, but accept with our hearts the need for order, obedience, and the understanding of a workable relationship with authority. In the Church we know that God is the most mature person in the universe. He has set up an organization complete with his authority. He asks us to work cooperatively within it, to foster his plans, and to accept his authority as manifested righteously in his chosen servants.

He knows that if we desire to do his will, pray, study, and work with singleness of heart for his cause, that we will understand his purposes and accept his methods for accomplishing them. We demonstrate our maturity by working for, not against him.

SS 851 November 1970 VISITING TEACHER MESSAGE

Truths to Live By
Message 6: The Meaning of Worship

Northern Hemisphere: First week, March 1971
Southern Hemisphere: First week, August 1971

OBJECTIVE: To refresh our understanding of the meaning of worship.

In one of the European missions a district conference was being held in a small, crowded chapel. A fine Lamanite opera singer was in attendance. The mission president asked him to sing one of the hymns as a solo. A member was asked to help him find an accompanist and arrange for a brief rehearsal. As the rehearsal ended, the member noticed that the opera singer was pale and trembling.

"I'm surprised," she said, "to see you so upset. I have heard you sing before large crowds and prominent people, and you always have exhibited poise and self-confidence."

"Ah," replied the opera star, "that was different. I have little anxiety when I sing before men, but I am overwhelmed when I sing before God."

Few people who heard that glorious tenor voice fill the small chapel with praise to our Lord will ever forget that moment of worship.

Worship is giving reverence and divine honors to God. Man has found many ways to do this. Some claim they worship best in the forest, in the garden, before a great painting, at a concert, or reading a good book. For centuries the devout Jew twice a day has prayed, "Hear, O Israel: the Lord our God is one Lord." (Deut. 6:4.)

In Jesus' day it was apparently the custom for the Jews to go to the temple to pray. We read in Luke 18:10-14:

Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican.
The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess.
And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner.
I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.

Here the Savior taught us not to attract the attention of others as we worship nor to proclaim our self-righteousness. We should pray in a humble, repentant manner, asking for mercy and help. To worship is to give homage to God, not to exalt oneself.

Elsewhere the Savior taught that prayer is to be in secret: "But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly." (Matt. 6:6.)

In Matthew, chapter five, the Savior taught that not only are we to forgive everyone his trespasses, we are not to worship if he has ought against us until we have gone to him and been reconciled. Again the Lord has given us the responsibility to be our brother's keeper, to be concerned with him even as we worship our God.

In our day we have been enjoined also to "go to the house of prayer and offer up thy sacraments upon my holy day." (D&C 59:9.) It is not enough to worship alone; in addition, we are to worship together. We are to worship, then, both in secret and in the Lord's house of prayer.

HOMEMAKING—A Lovelier You
Discussion 5: Proper Nutrition

Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, February 1971
Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, July 1971

OBJECTIVE To impress upon each woman the fact that proper nutrition not only affects her health but also her appearance.

INTRODUCTION People always have known they must eat to live—children to grow normally and adults to keep strong. But food can do more than satisfy physiological hunger and carry psychological and social values. Modern science shows that all of us, regardless of purse, can add years to our life and life to our years if we apply knowledge about nutrition to our selection and use of food. (Hazel K. Stiebeling, Food, The Yearbook of Agriculture, 1959, USDA; as cited in Nutrition for Family Counseling] Chicago: National Daily Council, 1962).

All women desire the beauty that comes from good health. To be in good health means to be well-nourished as well as to have good habits of exercise, rest, work, and play. Balanced meals are the basis for providing the materials with which to make and maintain good bone, muscle, blood, and other tissues. Your body is made from the food you eat.

THE BASIC FOOD GROUPS

Balanced meals are composed of foods selected from the so-called "basic four" food groups. What is meant by the "basic four" food groups? (Leader will write on the board and draw the answers from the class.)

Dairy Foods
Milk, cheese, ice cream, other milk-made foods.

Meat Group
Meats, fish, poultry, eggs or cheese—with dry beans, peas, and nuts as alternates.

Fruits and Vegetables
Includes dark green or yellow vegetables, citrus, and other fruit.

Breads and Cereals
Enriched or whole grain bread and cereals (added milk improves nutritional value). (Nutrition Handbook for Family Food Counseling [Chicago: National Dairy Council, 1962], p. 9.)

The nutritional statements made in this booklet have been reviewed by the Council on Foods and Nutrition of the American Medical Association and found consistent with current authoritative medical opinion. (Nutrition Handbook for Family Food Counseling (Chicago: National Dairy Council, 1962], p. 1.)

The four basic food groups should be interpreted as just what the name (basic) implies—a foundation upon which to build good meals. Each food group makes special contributions to our bodies. Foods from all four groups work together to supply energy and nutrients necessary for health and growth. Many nutrients contribute to the attractive appearance of our hair, skin, eyes, and other parts of the body.

FOOD FOR ADULT WOMEN

In general, men are likely to have better eating habits than women. Mothers are prone to neglect their own meals, partially because of their attention to the food needs of their families, or because they are figure-conscious and do not understand how to control weight properly.

Discussion Questions
1. How do a mother's eating habits affect her energy and attitude?
2. Do a mother's food habits affect her children's attitude toward eating?

Older people who become less active need fewer calories than before; however, it is doubly important that their meals be complete and balanced and not lacking in essential proteins, vitamins, and minerals. Studies have shown that calcium, vitamin A, and vitamin C are often low in the diets of adults.

This means that attention should be given by them to eating the recommended amounts of milk, fruits, and vegetables. OVERWEIGHT Excessive weight is physiologically undesirable, and in some cases can cause psychological problems and even changes in personality. (Give an example.) It also usually makes it more difficult for a woman to dress attractively and to express her best personality. Women should use wisdom in the quantity of food they eat. A physician normally will not advise a "crash" diet for weight loss. People who go on crash diets usually regain the lost weight afterward because the diet has not produced a permanent change in habitual eating patterns. The fundamental cause of excessive weight is consuming more food than the body requires. A successful weight reduction diet includes foods which contain adequate amounts of essential nutrients but a limited number of calories. The intelligent way to control weight is to improve basic eating habits and become accustomed to eating less, not forgetting balanced nutritional needs. Foods are not of themselves fattening; overweight comes from eating in excess of the body's requirements.

FOOD FADS Unfortunately, as the public's interest in nutrition has grown, food faddism and quackery have grown, too. There are two inherent dangers in food faddism: 1) health may suffer because the unknowing consumer, expecting the purchased preparation to protect or improve health, omits essential foods and delays seeking medical advice; 2) the pocketbook may take a serious "beating," using money which should go for food, clothing, and other family needs. (Nutrition Handbook for Family Food Counseling [Chicago: National Dairy Council 1962], p. 27.)

CONCLUSION It is simple to obtain balanced meals if we follow a few principles of common sense. First, eat a variety of foods at each meal. Second, don't eat more than you can expend as energy. Third, use whole some foods. Make an effort to stay away from rich, sweet desserts.

Mothers in our Church are blessed with a divinely inspired Word of Wisdom which serves as a guide and a constant help in protecting the health of their families. It contains a marvelous promise for those who obey its admonition, that all who follow it shall receive: health in their navel and marrow to their bones; And shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures; And shall run and not be weary, and shall walk and not faint. (D&C 89:18-20.)

Using wisdom and moderation in the food we eat can be challenging and rewarding. We not only receive the rewards of self-mastery and better health, but our appearance is enhanced, and we become a lovelier person in the eyes of our loved ones.

HOMEMAKING A Lovelier You Discussion 6 Improving Your Mind Northern Hemisphere: Second meeting, March 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Second meeting, August 1971

OBJECTIVE To stress that a mother can be more interesting and helpful to her family by continually learning and reading.

INTRODUCTION We live in an ever-changing world, and our challenge as mothers is to keep ourselves mentally alert and to put first things first. It requires good planning and the desire to rise above the pressure of our daily tasks so we can partake and participate in the exciting changes occurring around us.

ARE WE MEETING THE CHALLENGE TO IMPROVE OUR MINDS? To continue to grow and progress is an eternal principle. Our experience in the cultural refinement lessons is an opportunity to read good literature with understanding and appreciation and to find it rewarding and uplifting. To understand and be able to interpret good art and listen to good music can do much to improve our minds and to enrich our lives. Mothers who appreciate the cultural arts instinctively instill a love for these arts in their children.

Since reading is one of the keys to learning, it is a good practice, at times, to evaluate the type of reading we do.

WHAT ARE OUR READING HABITS? Do we enjoy reading good novels, history, and poetry? Are we interested in the scriptures and great masterpieces of literature? Do we visit our libraries?

The Prophet Joseph Smith was directed to urge his followers to study and learn and become acquainted with all good books. (D&C 88:118; 90:15.)

SEEKING GUIDANCE When we seek direction on matters of health, government, child guidance, community development, and money management, do we make the effort to go to the sources of authority for this information? One of the sections in the dedicatory prayer at the completion of the Kirtland Temple pertains to this:

grant, Holy Father, that all those who shall worship in this house, may be taught words of wisdom out of the best books, and that they may seek learning even by study, and also by faith, as Thou hast said.... (Joseph Smith, History of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, [Salt Lake City: Deseret Book Co., 1948] 2:421.)

KEEPING INFORMED In what areas does a mother need to keep herself informed? Is it important to keep ourselves informed on the great progress being made in the field of medicine? Why? Should we make an effort to study and keep up with new legislation? Why? What are some activities of the government that affect our homes? Do we attend public lectures on current subjects? Do we listen and study and attempt to absorb some of the marvelous achievements being made in the space age?

Joseph Smith admonished the people to teach one another: Of things both in heaven and in the earth, and under the earth; things which have been, things which are, things which must shortly come to pass; things which are at home, things which are abroad. (D&C 88:79.)

KEEPING ALERT WITH OUR HUSBANDS Are we interested in our husband's work? Do we make the effort to learn about his work? Do we discuss with him his problems? Do we work together with our husbands on projects? Projects can be a rewarding learning experience. Do we make it a habit to read the scriptures together? Do we make an effort to memorize scripture? Do we spend our spare time with our husbands and families in recreation? Do we devote some of our time to personal education?

CONCLUSION In our busy everyday lives the press of our individual responsibilities often causes us to seek physical rest as our only diversion. It may be well to bear in mind that the prophets are exhorting us to seek constant mental and spiritual activities. We are also told to use our talents, to make the most of them or they will be taken from us. But with some I am not well pleased, for they will not open their mouths, but they hide the talent which I have given unto them, because of the fear of man. Wo unto such, for mine anger is kindled against them. And it shall come to pass, if they are not more faithful unto me, it shall be taken away, even that which they have.... Thou shalt not idle away thy time, neither shalt thou bury thy talent that it may not be known.

(D&C 60:2-3, 13.) Thus, we should dedicate some moments of each day to enlarging our understanding, to developing our talents, to studying and learning. A beautiful example for her family and a joy to her husband is a woman who continues to "grow in grace and in the knowledge of truth." (D&C 50:40.) SOCIAL RELATIONS Living Morally in a Changing World Lesson 5—Morality Makes Sense Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, February 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, July 1971 OBJECTIVE: To help the Latter-day Saint woman understand and put into practice ways of developing moral strength in children. INTRODUCTION If a person examines his goals and objectives in life and the best method for obtaining them, morality is the only way that really makes sense. Life's goals usually include an education, marriage, children, a happy home, living in tune with God's purposes, and self-perfection. The only way to obtain these goals is by being ethical, virtuous, righteous, and by doing what is good and right, or, in other words, by being moral. If morality is necessary for the attainment of these desirable goals, why then is the problem of immorality increasing? What are the forces operating in the world today which make immorality appear attractive? Satan's influence on our perception of right and wrong, and the many influences in today's society that tend to distort perception and create situations that are tempting have already been discussed in a previous lesson. Too much money, too little money, too much free time, too little work, too many activities for parents and children outside of the home, keen competition in the business and professional world, early dating, early irresponsible driving, immodesty in dress, and going steady are some of the influences that can be found in present-day society. Discussion Question What are some of the other demoralizing influences found in society today? Though these forces may seem to be worse today than they have ever been before, a talk with a mother or a grandmother soon reveals that every generation has had its own set of demoralizing influences. It would seem that, in the final analysis, the morality of a generation is determined by the strength of the individuals of whom it is composed. The real key to morality lies in building the moral strength of each individual. Wives, mothers, and teachers have the great responsibility to help build the moral strength and self-discipline of all those whose lives they touch. This lesson will, therefore, devote attention to two very important factors in an individual's life that influence the growth and development of moral strength. These factors are (1) his basic needs, and (2) his self-esteem. 857 THE RELATIONSHIP OF BASIC NEEDS, SELF-ESTEEM, AND MORALITY Whether an individual is able to live morally and ethically after having been taught what is right and wrong depends, to a great extent, on whether his basic needs are being fulfilled and whether he has self-esteem. To an individual who has an unfulfilled need for love and security, immorality may appear attractive because he thinks it offers the promise of satisfaction of that need. To the person who has not yet been able to acquire a secure feeling about his own worth as an individual, immorality may look attractive because it offers him an opportunity to experiment and, perhaps, establish his own identity. On the other hand, the person who has high self-esteem, who has self-confidence and a high regard for himself, usually can tolerate an unfulfilled need temporarily or suppress it in a healthy fashion until he can find a moral way in which to satisfy it. It is not difficult to see why the "hippie philosophy" has appeal for some. To the child who has been starved for parental love and concern, immorality may appear to offer love and concern. To the child who has been raised in a very rigid atmosphere with too much parental control, it seems to offer the opportunity for freedom of thought and action and a chance for discovery of "self." He will see in it only what he wants to see and will not be able to see its many self-defeating aspects. It is, therefore, extremely important to understand children's needs and how to help them develop a feeling of self-worth. A CHILD'S BASIC NEEDS Discussion Question What are some of a child's basic needs? A child is unable to satisfy his own needs to feel loved, to feel secure, and to feel worthwhile to himself and others. He must depend on adults to help him satisfy them. He must depend on adults completely at first, and, as he grows, he still needs adult concern and guidance in helping him learn acceptable ways of satisfying his needs. In each stage of a child's development certain needs and certain forms of behavior predominate. Information about the growth and development of children is available to every parent on the radio and on television, in the newspapers, in the library, and in special books which have been written on this subject. Parents can greatly profit from these materials by using wisdom and discrimination in applying and assimilating those ideas which are in harmony with the gospel and its principles. THE INFANT A baby is completely dependent on his parents. His first adjustment to life is probably the most agonizing one of all. Imagine the desperation of a baby who is hungry, cold, or lonely and is not immediately comforted. An infant must be cared for by someone who can hold, cherish, and protect him as well as feed him and keep him dry. He has emotional needs that are as important, perhaps more important, than his biological needs. This is one of the reasons being cared for by a mother is more desirable than being put in a nursery school. THE PRESCHOOL CHILD The preschool period, when a child is learning to control some of his bodily functions, learning to relate to others, and learning to postpone his need satisfaction, is a frustrating one for both child and parent. The child has many anxieties at this time that may be expressed in various forms of behavior—destructiveness, aggression toward other children, temper tantrums, eye blinking, stuttering, and whining, for example. The source of these anxieties is often related to basic needs. Much can be done by a parent to help a child satisfy his needs so that these anxieties do not develop. For example, a child should never be threatened with abandonment. If he dawdles it is better to lead him by the hand than to threaten that you will leave him. If circumstances in life force separation from a child for an operation, vacation, or social obligation, the separation should be preceded by preparation. A mother should never steal quietly out of the home, leaving a relative or a sitter to explain her absence. Children take the stress of separation much more easily if they have been prepared for the experience beforehand. Once an undesirable form of behavior appears, it should be viewed as a device to relieve tension rather than a 'vice which must be cured. 859 November 1970

A parent's calmness, relaxation, acceptance, and love will usually result in its disappearance. On the other hand, if the child's attention is drawn to his misbehavior by constant nagging, it will usually be accentuated. It is helpful to know what forms of behavior one would ordinarily see in a child in the preschool period. If a parent is well informed, he will be more calm, accepting, and loving to his child. Being able to distinguish the normal from the abnormal gives the parent some practical help in dealing with his children.

ELEMENTARY SCHOOL AGE

During the elementary school period a child usually reacts to frustrated needs either by acting out his anxieties or by withdrawing into himself. He may become a behavior problem at school or church. He may be too competitive, may lie, may steal, may not take responsibility, or may withdraw and refuse to join any group that would require him to form a meaningful relationship with others. What the child needs at this time is a parent who will express love and concern for him. He needs parents who will stop nagging him about his bad behavior and listen to what he has to say about his feelings. He needs parents who are willing to listen to his bad thoughts as well as his good ones without overreacting. Very often a child can get rid of bad feelings merely by expressing them to someone. If a child knows inwardly that he is really free to express his feelings to his parents without 860 danger of losing their love and approval, he will seek audience with them when he is anxious about his bad thoughts and feelings. If the parent helps him explore these feelings in a calm, rational manner, the parent has an opportunity to guide the child. If a child is not made to feel unloved when he says what he thinks, there is a better chance that he will confine himself to saying what he thinks, rather than acting it out.

THE ADOLESCENT

When a child becomes an adolescent, he has to deal with the emotional changes which accompany sexual maturation and with the new role of independence he is expected to assume. This transitional stage between childhood and adulthood is a most difficult period for both parent and child. The child still needs much love and acceptance, but it is sometimes very hard for the parents to supply it during these years. Characteristic of this period are wide mood swings between childishness and maturity. It is not uncommon to see a fifteen-year-old have a temper tantrum over something very insignificant one minute, and then sit down the next and carry on a very mature and intelligent discussion with an adult on some complicated aspect of life. A parent's tolerance level must be expanded. He must be prepared to cope with frequent and drastic changes in mood, be able to listen to things he doesn't want to hear, be able to tolerate complaining, lack of appreciation, and the faddish dress. If a parent can be tolerant during this period, the lines of communication may be kept open between parent and child. This is very important if the parent expects to be able to influence the child's behavior.

If a child brings up some shocking subject for discussion, the parents and the teachers must learn not to overreact with horror, dismay, or with a heavy-handed, moralistic attitude, because such reactions will usually arouse antagonism in the child. It is better to react in this way: "Listen, let's explore this thing together, let's find out what is good and what is bad about it, what is false and what is true. I need to know as much as you do." Parents and teachers should have information about the things in the adolescent's life that will inevitably be discussed, such as sex, drugs, and dating. If adults know more about these subjects than do the children, if the adult's judgment is good, and they are not just expressing an emotional opinion, they will be able to gain the respect of the youth. Also by being informed, adults' judgment is good, and answers to questions that seemingly are unanswerable. Discussion is often the best method for finding answers.

Though he may object, the adolescent has need for some parental limitation of his freedom. Limitation may help reinforce a child's decision that he does not yet have the inner strength to maintain by himself. He does not, however, need the same degree of parental authority he needed during childhood. The adolescent literally must grow up lesson department during the teen years and can do so only if given responsibility in increasing doses.

If the home is filled with pleasantness, kindness, cooperation, and industry, the child is likely to find the world a friendly place and to find his way in it. But if the home is fraught with conflict, punishment, and inconsistency, he is likely to look upon the world as a distrustful and hostile place and to fight against it rather than cooperate with it.

Class Discussion

Make a list of things that interest adolescents in your country and see how well informed the sisters are on these subjects.

THE DEVELOPMENT OF SELF-ESTEEM

It is interesting to learn that sometimes preceding his middle childhood a child arrives at a general feeling of his worth. If the child views himself as capable, significant, and worthy, he is said to be high in self-esteem. If the child regards himself as being unworthy or bad or incompetent, he is said to be low in self-esteem. This image he has of himself usually remains stable and enduring over a period of years, and, once established, it will be one of the most important contributing factors to his behavior, good or bad, from then on.

An individual who is high in self-esteem trusts his own judgment, has courage to act on his convictions, is influenced less by social groups and social pressures, takes responsibility, is able to tolerate his own mistakes and 861 November 1970 not let them ruin his life. He finds that living a moral life is much more sensible than living an immoral one.

Discussion Question

How can we as parents and teachers build the self-esteem of children?

A child who is raised with limits finds it easy to judge for himself whether he has succeeded in attaining a goal, or whether he has failed, and if he has failed, by how much, and what he must do to achieve success. He can learn to appraise and anticipate the consequences of his own actions. A child raised under these circumstances does not then need to rely on his social group or other people to help him make decisions. He is better prepared to "stand on his own two feet" and will have the confidence to do so because he trusts his own judgment.

Parents who have definite, righteous values, who have a clear idea of what they regard as acceptable behavior, and who are able to present and enforce these beliefs with conviction are more likely to rear children who value themselves highly.

A parent who can do this usually does not find it necessary to deal with his children harshly, and such a parent is usually viewed with greater affection and respect by the children. It has been found that a child is more likely to go along with parents' desires if the parents build the child's self-esteem by indicating approval of him as much as possible rather than showing disapproval. The way a parent reacts to a child's actions either confirms or denies a child's evaluation of himself. For this reason, it is important in the first few years of life for parents to find ways of guiding their children into situations in which they will be successful, and ways of helping them avoid experiences that will cause them to feel shame or self-doubt.

Class Discussion

The Church gives the child many opportunities to develop his self-esteem. How can a mother make sure these experiences have a positive, rather than a negative effect on self-esteem? List some things that are commonly said to children that could give a child a bad opinion of himself. In what ways could a parent help a child think more highly of himself?

Other interesting facts about self-esteem have come to light as a result of studies performed by various sociologists. A study on self-esteem conducted with 500 high school students has clarified many of the social conditions that relate to self-esteem. It was found that social class is only weakly related to self-esteem. Adolescents who have a close relationship with their fathers are much higher in self-esteem than those who have a more distant and impersonal relationship with him. The children of Jews were found to have much higher self-esteem than those of Protestants and Catholics. This seemed to be largely a result of the great amount of attention Jewish children receive from their parents.

Other studies indicate that self-esteem is not related to height and physical attractiveness, and it is only rather weakly related to social status and academic performance. It was also found that the families of children with high self-esteem have well-defined limits of behavior and clear statements of rights and privileges. These same families also show a greater tolerance for individual expression and less drastic forms of punishment.

Results of this same study also showed that parents of children with high self-esteem are significantly less permissive than are the parents of children with less self-esteem. Since this finding is counter to what many people in our modern society believe, this particular finding was studied in depth. The conclusion reached was that firm parents who are establishing rules and enforcing them are providing definitions for their children and indicating how to interpret the world so as to maximize success and minimize anxiety.

Lesson Department

SUMMARY To help children develop moral strength in the home, parents must teach them in the ways of the Lord. Parents and teachers must reinforce these teachings by encouraging regular, meaningful attendance and activity at Church. For moral teachings to be accepted and translated into moral behavior, children need an abundant supply of love, recognition, acceptance, security, support, and limitations. Interest must be shown in every aspect of children's lives. Adults should look for the best in children, praise them, and show respect for them. Parents should build a relationship with them that will form a protective barrier between the children and the demoralizing forces in society; then morality rather than immorality will make the most sense.

SOCIAL RELATIONS Living Morally in a Changing World

Lesson 6 Hazards of Drugs Northern Hemisphere: Third meeting, March 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Third meeting, August 1971

OBJECTIVE: To help the Latter-day Saint woman be informed about drugs so she can be better equipped to protect her family.

INTRODUCTION Satan has always found ways to exert his influence on the minds and souls of men, and he is not without creative genius in establishing new and varied ways of influencing them. One of his prominent and effective tools currently in vogue is drug abuse. Drugs have been used for centuries, but it is only in relatively recent years that drugs have been seriously abused by so many people.

Medical science has discovered and refined many drugs which can be used to aid in the healing arts, but Satan, in his genius for twisting good things to his own use, has seized at this production of man to make it useful for his nefarious purposes. Many forms of drugs have lent themselves readily to Satan's use. In the search for excitement, new experiences, and ways of forgetting the realities of day-to-day living, some people in recent years have turned heavily to the use of drugs. Drugs which can make one sleep, pep him up, calm him down, and give him new and strange feelings about himself and the world are coming into more and more usage by more and more people.

DRUG ABUSE Persons who know most about the drug problem give us information that is alarming. The director of the Federal Bureau of Narcotics in the United States, John E. Ingersoll, indicates a justified concern about the extent and intensity of drug abuse in the United States. He states that drug abuse "has exploded into a problem of frightening proportions." Our information, intelligence, statistics and arrest data show that drug abuse in this country is mounting at a startling rate.

He gives examples revealing the extent of the problem in New York City where over 900 people (224 of whom were teen-agers; 24 under the age of 15) died from drug abuse in 1969. (U.S. News and World Report, May 25, 1970, p. 38.)

A study done in the state of Utah by the Governor's advisory committee on drug abuse disclosed that in 1969 17.05 percent of high school students indicated they had used marijuana, 11.60 percent had used amphetamines, and 8.78 percent had tried LSD. ("The Problem of Drug Abuse, Extracts from the Advisory Committee Report on Drug Abuse—Summations and Recommendations," Nov. 1969, p. 7.)

John E. Ingersoll states that "In virtually every major metropolitan area of the country, drug use and abuse has increased by leaps and bounds." (U.S. News and World Report, May 25, 1970, p. 38.)

The extent of drug abuse requires that the Latter-day Saint woman have information and understanding about drugs and their effects in order to put her in a position to prevent drug abuse in the Latter-day Saint home.

A first step in preparing oneself to combat drug usage is to have some knowledge of the characteristics of the most common drugs abused. The Food and Drug Administration in Washington, D.C., defines the term "drugs" as "substances used to diagnose, treat, or prevent illness; or substances (other than food) which modify body function." ("How Safe Are Our Drugs?" FDA's Life Protection Series, p. 865 November 1970).

5.) According to the same source of information, drugs can be obtained from natural sources such as plants and animals (for example, hormones, antibiotics, narcotics, digitalis, etc.) or from artificial sources (antihistamines, aspirin, barbiturates, nasal drops, etc.). The person who abuses drugs is particularly interested in drugs which modify bodily function in a way that gives him new mental or physical sensations. It is obvious that any substance which is strong enough to change the functioning of the body systems is potentially dangerous to health and well-being and requires careful prescribing by a competent physician. Drug abusers make themselves vulnerable to all the hazards of drug use with few, if any, of the safeguards. The sensation derived from drug abuse is given high priority over health, safety, and even life when the drug abuser gets "hooked" or habituated.

The American Social Health Association provides a reliable description of drugs most commonly used by drug abusers. The drugs can be designated as being in two categories: (1) illicit or prohibited drugs, the manufacture and distribution of which are prohibited except for approved research purposes; and (2) drugs legitimately used in the practice of medicine. The manufacture and distribution of the latter group of drugs is confined to ethical drug channels, and standards of drug usage are controlled by the Food and Drug Administration. Most countries have patterns of such control.

Among the illicit drugs, the most common are hallucinogens, heroin, and marijuana, and among the second group of drugs are amphetamines, barbiturates, cocaine, codeine, methamphetamine, and morphine.

Discussion Question: What is the status of drug abuse and control in your community?

Lesson Department

IDENTIFICATION OF DRUGS
For detection of drug abuse, as well as the need for general familiarity with drugs for educational purposes, it is useful for the Latter-day Saint mother to know some basic facts about each of the listed drugs. Each of the drugs has its nicknames, which will be identified in addition to other peculiar aspects such as how used and effects upon the user.

The American Social Health Association provides the following information about specific drugs:

LSD, nicknamed "acid," is usually taken in tablet, capsule, ampul (hypodermic) form or in saturated sugar cubes. It produces hallucinations, exhilarations, or depressions and may lead to serious mental changes with possible suicidal or homicidal tendencies. Its use can be detected since abusers undergo marked personality changes and speak of "seeing" smells or "hearing" colors. Behavior is very irrational. This drug can have very serious consequences for the user.

Heroin, called "snow," "stuff," "H," and "junk," is a morphine derivative with a high possibility of addiction. It can be administered by any one of several methods but is usually taken by intravenous injection. The person who has taken heroin has constricted pupils and is calm and inattentive. Use of heroin only once or twice produces real possibility of addiction, and when a person becomes addicted to this drug, the possibility of cure is very remote. The person taking heroin must continually increase the dosage to obtain the same effect. Withdrawal symptoms from this drug are severe.

Marijuana, nicknamed "pot," "sticks," "reefers," "weed," "grass," "joints," "muggles," "mooters," "Indian hay," "locoweed," "mu," "siggle-smoke," "griffo," "mohasky," and "Mary Jane," is derived from a plant commonly called Indian hemp. This drug is usually smoked in pipes or cigarettes. Hashish is a more concentrated form of the same plant which is often made into candy, sniffed in powder form, and mixed with honey for drinking or with butter to spread on bread. Use of marijuana gives the user a feeling of great perceptiveness and pleasure. There is possible erratic behavior, loss of memory, and distortion of time and spatial perceptions. Users may feel exhilarated or relaxed and have an exaggerated sense of ability, lack of restraint, plus distortions of time and space, which may result in his acting in ways dangerous to himself and others. Although there is no conclusive evidence that marijuana users characteristically move to more serious drug abuse, the pattern of many hardcore drug abusers has been to start with marijuana.

Amphetamines, known also as "bennies," "copilots," "footballs," "hearts," and "pep pills," are stimulants used legally by physicians to help curb appetite or relieve minor depression. The drug is usually taken orally as a tablet or capsule, and the effects are abnormal cheerfulness and unusual increase in activity, jumpiness, and irritability. The drug can cause dangerous changes in vital body functions like blood pressure and heart rhythm. The teenager may take the drug to increase "nerve" and under drug influence may behave dangerously.

Barbiturates, often called "red birds," "yellow jackets," "blue heavens," or "goofballs," are sedatives usually taken orally in tablet or capsule form, although abusers may resort to intravenous injection. The user may be relaxed, good natured, and sociable but may also become sluggish and quarrelsome. There is often a general appearance of drunkenness but without the odor of alcohol. The most hazardous aspect of barbiturates is sedation. To the point of respiratory failure. With some sedation from a mild dosage of the drug, the individual may lose his attentiveness to the point that he unintentionally repeats the dosage to the peril of his life. This drug is particularly hazardous when taken with alcohol and is addictive with both physical and psychic dependency.

Cocaine, called "the leaf," "snow," or "speedballs" when mixed with heroin, is another drug used by drug abusers primarily for the possible exhilarating effect. Repetitive doses lead to excessive excitation, convulsive movements, and muscular twitching. The abuser can be identified by dilated pupils, hyperactivity, and a tendency to feel people are against him. There is very strong psychic dependence on the drug.

Methamphetamine, called "speed" or "crystal" by drug abusers, is a strong stimulant taken orally as a tablet or in an elixir injected intravenously. The abuser becomes extremely restless and irritable, and violence and paranoid reactions are possible. The drug is very dangerous because of its potential danger to others and possible death to the abuser.

Morphine, known also as "al" or "dreamer," and another opium derivative, codeine, nicknamed "schoolboy," are additional drugs used by persons seeking new and exciting experiences. These drugs are generally sedative, and the abuser has constricted pupils and is calm and inattentive. Both physical dependence and psychic dependence with severe withdrawal symptoms are characteristic of morphine and to some degree of all opium derivatives.

Another kind of drug abuse is glue sniffing, an activity mostly indulged in by teenagers. Airplane glue and solvents such as benzene, carbon tetrachloride, and ethyl alcohol, are common for "sniffing." The user experiences euphoria, intoxication, dizziness, slurring of speech, and possible unconsciousness. Other evidences of glue sniffing are inflamed eyes, loss of appetite, and a constant feeling of sickness. Serious physical damage can occur to such vital body organs as the liver, kidneys, or the brain.

REASONS FOR DRUG ABUSE
Discussion Question: Why does a person use drugs? One would ordinarily assume that knowledge of the negative and dangerous outcome of drug usage would discourage or eliminate the possibility of abuse of drugs. Lack of information or ignorance of the drug's impact undoubtedly are factors in drug use.

Educational programs about the effects and dangers of drugs can be significant deterrents, but it is doubtful that even full understanding of the harmful effects of drugs will eliminate their use. In addition to being uninformed or ignorant of what the facts are, one can identify additional forces which influence the tendency for one to become involved in drug abuse. In addition to ignorance, explanations for drug abuse may be one or a combination of the following items: 1. Peer group pressure. Friends and associates have a significant impact, especially on teenagers. If the peer group is experimenting with various drugs, the pressure is great to have each member of the group become involved. The average adolescent is highly vulnerable to peer pressure because this dimension of all his relationships is highly important, at times even taking preference over the family as a prime source of impact. 2. Social setting. A person who lives in a social situation where abuse of drugs is a common and frequent activity by both adults and peers is apt to accept such patterns as part of his own behavior. Social situations which produce unhappiness, personal frustration, economic depression, low job opportunities, etc., are apt to encourage drug usage as a means of escape from daily stark realities of misery. 3. New experiences and experimentation. A major characteristic of human beings is to search for new and different experiences, and drug abuse is certainly a way some persons secure new and varied experiences. Some people turn to drugs when they are bored with life or when they have not experienced the healthy and appropriate ways of "mind expanding" or being "turned on" by activities of education, recreation, or exciting experiences of ordinary living events such as observing and enjoying the beauties of nature or a good art museum. Sheer curiosity is a part of this dimension of why some persons resort to artificial methods of stimulation or influence on the body's normal functioning. 4. Meeting personality deficiencies. The individual who is inclined to doubt his abilities or capacity to relate healthily to other people may hope that an artificial stimulant or depressant may temporarily eliminate or relieve feelings of his self-consciousness in associating with people. The capacity of a potent drug to permit one to live in a dream or artificial world of sensations may be considered a solution to the social and personal pressures of an individual. 5. Emotional or mental disturbance. One's emotional or mental stability may be so precarious that he is not capable of rendering good judgments about what should be done about day-to-day living experiences. Most people behave in response to expected outcomes of success, growth, advancement, and happiness, but the emotionally confused person is apt to seek easement of pressure or avoidance of responsibility by any available means. Drug abuse can become an extension of a person's already confused thinking and feeling patterns. 6. Disturbed family relationships. Many young people move to drug abuse at the point where family relationship becomes unbearable. Personal happiness is closely associated with good family relationships, and any disruption in this area can make one feel despair and discouragement that may result in a search for artificial means of happiness. Anger reactions and other bad feelings between parent and child can easily influence a child to seek ways of rebelling against the parent. Drug abusers are often in rebellion against the parent or authority in general.

CONCLUSION

No reason or explanation for a person's becoming involved in drug use can justify the act, but such may serve as a guideline for where the problem can be most expeditiously attacked. This is particularly true in the home where a child has contemplated use of drugs or is actually using them. The parent can review the possible reasons for such occurrence and then attack the problem in a way most apt to produce favorable results.

Discussion Question

If there is a child in your family using drugs, what should be done?

When there are indications that a family member is contemplating drug use or is using drugs, as evidenced by personal reactions described under the discussion of the different drugs, the parent can immediately discuss the possibilities with the child and initiate efforts to resolve the problem. Medical treatment should be sought immediately. The exact procedure should be focused on the basis of what factors are most significantly contributing to the problem. Children need education about drugs which can be provided personally by the parent, school, family physician, or other reliable persons. Should it appear that other factors are influencing the pattern toward drug usage, these should be discussed with Church leaders who can assist in evolving a suitable plan for action or prevention. Professional peer Lesson Department help by medical personnel, social workers, nurses, or psychologists may be necessary to alleviate the problem. Any reluctance to face the fact that the problem exists, or any embarrassment about seeking help, should be placed secondary to the need for effective management of the problem.

Drugs can be handy tools for Satan's use and all our good judgment, knowledge, and sound action are needed to minimize the chances of Satan's impact on ourselves and our families. The Latter-day Saint woman can be better equipped to protect her family from this problem by understanding and living the gospel of Jesus Christ.

CULTURAL REFINEMENT

Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 4"'And to Every Man Is Given a Gift" (D&C 46:11)

Textbook: Out of the Best Books, volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas

Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, February 1971
Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, June 1971

OBJECTIVE: To encourage creativity among the women of the Church by examining some of the creative achievements of gifted Church members.

ART "Temple Site" by Dale T. Fletcher, American, collection of the artist. Reproduction of painting, The Relief Society Magazine June 1970, page 447.

COMMENTARY

Each one comes to his own particular gift in his own way. Sometimes through early recognition and subsequent training one may develop a particular gift to a point of excellence. Dale Fletcher was one who discovered his own gift at an early age, and consequently its cultivation became a natural part of his training. Just as many families customarily enjoy activities with their children, so did the Fletchers. They went painting and sketching into the meadows, barnyards, and countryside. The children, armed with pencils, crayons, and paper, were motivated by their parents to look closely and record their impressions. By so doing they saw more, and seeing more, they developed a profound gratitude for the simplest forms of God's creation.

The painting "Temple Site" was a direct result of a desire by Dale Fletcher to paint something for the first Festival of Mormon Art at Brigham Young University in 1968. When Mr. Fletcher learned that the Provo Temple was to be built across the street from his home, it became a sacred spot to him. Relative to his experience he said:...

I waited for a day and a half out there, looking for the temple through an empty picture frame without ever touching my large white canvas. Silly, sitting among sego lilies, waiting for angels to come and pose. Faithless and impatient, I gave up and tried to paint what I saw, and failed—light descending from heaven cleaving the mountains, hallowing, redeeming grass, baptizing unto newness of leaf, working atonement and eternal marriage, achieving godhood, with all the winged beings hymning in the wild wheat. Though the artist in his own eyes may have felt that he failed, to the viewer his painting says that the very physical light is divine. From the sky God blessed all living entities with his sun-870 shine. Each blade of grass, one by one, declares faith in the validity of individual things and conjointly displays wealth of value in the common field. To see, not just with the eyes but with the whole mind awake, is truly a great gift.

INTRODUCTION
President Brigham Young, in many of his speeches, pointed out that two of the greatest attributes of God are his power to love and his power to create. Especially did he draw attention to the endless variety in the works created by the hand of God: Endless variety is stamped upon the works of God's hands. There are no two productions of nature, whether animal, vegetable or mineral, that are exactly alike, and all are crowned with a degree of polish and perfection that cannot be obtained by ignorant man in his most exquisite mechanical productions. Man's machinery makes things alike; God's machinery gives to things which appear alike a pleasing difference. Fields and mountains, trees and flowers, and all that fly, swim or move upon the ground are lessons for study in the great school our heavenly Father has instituted for the benefit of his children. Let us explore this great field of information that is open before us in good books and in the great laboratory of nature. (Brigham Young, Journal of Discourses, 9:369-70 [hereafter referred to as JD].)

God, in his exalted sphere, is the greatest Creator, creating things that are endlessly variable—flowers, trees, mountains, snowflakes, animals, people. But people, too, in their humbler sphere, can also be creative, should be creative—in teaching, leadership, thinking, homemaking, human relationships, cultural arts, and other phases of human endeavor. Earthly machines do make things that are exactly the same. Imaginative minds and talented hands create things that are never the same. Each work of art is unique, as is each solution to a problem, or each response to another personality. There is a need for machines to produce automobiles, refrigerators, shoes, boxes, wheels, and beads that are exactly alike. There is also a need for people to create things that are stimulatingly individual.

As the late President John F. Kennedy once said at Amherst College, the growth and health of a people are dependent in part upon their creative activity: When power leads man towards arrogance, poetry reminds him of his limitations. When power narrows the area of man's concern, poetry cleanses. For art establishes the basic human truths which must serve as the touchstones of our judgment.... I see little of more importance to the future of our country and our civilization than full recognition of the place of the artist. If art is to nourish the roots of our culture, society must set the artist free to follow his vision wherever it takes him.

As members of the Church we should create in good taste, creating works that are harmonious to the principles and ideals of the gospel, and we certainly should do all that we can to encourage creativity. Perhaps it is true, as a wise man once said, that the two greatest sources of happiness for men and women, indeed the only true sources of lasting happiness, are creativity and service. If we can include both in our lives we will have a double fount of happiness.

As a Church it is obvious that we have not yet fully reached maturity in the creative arts. Perhaps our greatest achievement has been in the performing arts, especially music. The Tabernacle Choir is surely one of the great musical organizations of the world, and we have hundreds of other excellent choirs and choral groups throughout the Church. In musical composition, painting, literature, and the other arts we have achieved on a more limited basis. Yet the materials for great art are imbedded in the history of our people and in the philosophy of the gospel. In the future great things that are hardly even dreamed of now will undoubtedly be achieved in the arts by members of the Church.

Nevertheless, in a limited way, we have already made some significant accomplishments for only one hundred and fifty years of history. To name all of the gifted creative writers, musicians, and painters that are at work within the Church would make a lesson too long to print here. Perhaps the most useful thing we can do is draw attention to the selections by members of the Church that have been included in the volumes of Out of the Best Books. These are as follows:

Eileen Gibbons Kump, "Milk," vol. 2, pp. 297-302
Albert R. Lyman, from Voice of the Intangible, vol. 2, pp. 340-46
Brian K. Kelly, "A Run of Gray," vol. 3, pp. 90-99
Edward L. Hart, "To Utah," vol. 3, pp. 151-55
Clinton F. Larson, from The Mantle of the Prophet, vol. 3, pp. 156-60
Harrison R. Merrill, excerpt from poem, vol. 3, p. 242
Bernice Burton Holmes, "Rain Song," vol. 4, p. 9
Carol Lynn Pearson, six poems, vol. 4, pp. 17 and 82-83
S. Dilworth Young, "The March of Zion's Camp," vol. 4, pp. 213-19
Eliza R. Snow, several poems, vol. 4, pp. 257-68
Bruce B. Clark, "The Faces of Anger," vol. 5, pp. 60-61

"Bread and Milk" is a sensitive story about the beauty and wonder of approaching motherhood. The excerpt from the novel Voice of the Intangible dramatizes some meaningful insights into parent-child relationships and also suggests the need for listening to the whisperings of the Holy Spirit. "A Run of Gray" is a story by a gifted young author who reveals the awakening and maturing values of a boy growing up on a farm. "To Utah" is an excellent, richly artistic poem about the colonization of Utah and the kind of people who did the colonizing. The excerpt from The Mantle of the Prophet powerfully dramatizes the courage rooted in deep faith that Brigham Young had in following the vision of the Prophet Joseph Smith. "Rain Song" is a delicate description of a storm with meaningful psychological overtones. The six little poems by Carol Lynn Pearson are the remarkable work of one of the gifted young poets in the Church today.

"The March of Zion's Camp," by Elder S.

Dilworth Young of the First Council of Seventy is a dramatic portrayal in poetry of the challenges met by faith that characterized those early young pioneers in that most remarkable of American army marches. Eliza R. Snow's poetry, illustrating her versatility as the most accomplished of our early women poets in the Church, ranges from poems of faith and serenity through poems exposing the evils of hypocrisy and gossiping to a poem suggesting the unique role of being a woman. Any or all of these selections and their discussions printed in Out of the Best Books may be reviewed with value as the heart of this month's lesson. In addition we draw attention to two paintings in volume 3 by gifted Latter-day Saint painters "To Them of the Last Wagon" by Lynn Fausett (pp. 144-46) and "Life from Death" by Floyd E. Breinholt (pp. 240-42). We especially invite a reexamination of "Life from Death," a beautifully symbolic painting showing the eternal relationship between life and death. The more one studies this extraordinary painting, the more one realizes the depth of both feeling and meaning encompassed in it. We also suggest a rereading of "Ordeal by Handcart" by Wallace Stegner (vol. 4, pp. 60-65). Although Wallace Stegner is not a member of our Church, this is a powerful and dramatic portrayal of a courageous episode in the history of the Church. Beyond the materials in Out of the Best Books, Relief Society sisters may with profit read some of the many stories and poems that have been published through the years in the Relief Society Magazine, which has from its beginning printed creative work by members of the Church. Some of the stories and poems published in the Magazine are of a quality deserving a permanent audience. In fact, an excellent project for someone would be to extract from the many issues of the Magazine the best of the stories and poems and compile these into a volume or two. For example, we reprint here the first-prize winner in the 1961 Eliza R. Snow Poetry Contest, "The Other Mother" by Miranda Snow Walton, first published in the January 1962 issue, p. 14. As we read this poem and feel the anguish of the unnamed mother of Judas Iscariot, we share the universality of her mixture of love and grief.

No book of Holy Writ records her name; She lived and died unknown, although her son Became a sign for infamy and shame—Judas Iscariot, the evil one. She must have dreamed of him, as mothers do, The months she cherished him before his birth, And watched with pride and gladness as he grew To manhood's stature, great upon the earth. When she beheld him on that blessed day Follow the Holy Man of Galilee, How could she see the cross along his way, A premonition of the pain to be? But when his sin of avarice was paid Its wage of death, what anguish did she know! Surely her soul walked with him, hurt, afraid, Along the tortured trail they both must go. Fain would she have suffered in his stead, Taken his retribution as her own, But in a potter's field her son lay dead By his own hand. She drained her cup alone.

She reaches down the corridor of years, Lesson Department She mourns with grieving mothers of all lands; Wherever hearts are broken, bathed with tears For children's sins, her tragic shadow stands.

VALUES IN CREATIVITY All who have created artistically know that the joys and values derived therefrom are rewarding. There are, however, frustrations in creativity, even failure sometimes, but there is also a wonder, a joy of accomplishment In the process of creating something from within oneself that can be achieved in few other ways. This is true even though the object created may not be of any great significance to the world. It is of significance to the one who has created it, and that gives it incalculable value. The creative process sharpens the sensitivities, refines one's responses, and enriches human understanding. When one gives artistic form to miscellany, whether in colors, sounds, visual patterns, or words, the process not only creates beauty in the object but also enriches the one who creates.

Class Discussion Name values you may have experienced in creative activity. Within every human being there are latent gifts of creativity which only need awakening to be enjoyed and make life more beautiful than it could have been otherwise. Every woman has at least one talent that she can develop, enjoy, and share for the enjoyment of others.

SEEBS 873 November 1970 CULTURAL REFINEMENT Ideals of Womanhood in Relation to Home and the Family Lesson 5—Principles With a Promise—Faith and Optimism Textbook: Out of the Best Books, volumes 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 By Bruce B. Clark and Robert K. Thomas Northern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, March 1971 Southern Hemisphere: Fourth meeting, July 1971 OBJECTIVE: To encourage a woman to exercise faith and optimism as illustrated in the writings of Robert Browning.

MUSIC COMMENTARY The following musical selections are suggested to correlate with the objective of lesson 5. We encourage class leaders to consult with their respective choristers and organists—regarding the preparation and presentation of them. Title Composers Eternal Life Dugan—Stickles 323-4009 Lo, Thou Art Near 1009 SSA 1 Am a Child of God (Sing with Me, p. B-76.) I Know That My Redeemer Lives (Hymns, no. 361.)

INTRODUCTION TO LESSON One of the great poets of the world and one whose poetry embraces ideals and philosophy harmonious with our Church ideals and doctrines is Robert Browning (1812-1889). Throughout the five volumes of Out of the Best Books, enough selections from Browning's poetry are included to make this an excellent and stimulating lesson, especially as it relates to women, by showing how their lives may be enriched and made more meaningful.

RESPONSES TO WORKS OF BROWNING The following comments are Ranghild L. Safsten—Mary D. Safsten Naomi W. Randall—Mildred T. Pettit Medley—Edwards Publisher The John Church Co., Subsidiary of Theodore Presser Co., Bryn Mawr, Pa. Pioneer Music Press 975 S. W. Temple St. Salt Lake City, Utah The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints but a few of the many made by a group of mature literature students (members of the Church) after studying Robert Browning: Of all the poets that I've ever studied, I find Browning the most invigorating because of his optimistic views on religion and God. The more I study Browning and read his works, the better I like him. His poems are challenging, thought provoking, and stimulating. I was caught up in his vigor and robustness, his love for life. I was impressed by his strong faith and his willingness to so vigorously support his religious views. It was refreshing to find a really good poet who showed such a strong faith in God.

His optimism in hope for life after death especially appeals to me, as does his philosophy that you should aim your goals very high, even if you don't quite reach them. I enjoyed Browning tremendously. I loved his vigorous, positive belief in a personal, loving God. In our age of doubt and pessimism it is refreshing to study a poet who could verbalize his personal optimism. Browning's defiance of the trend of the 19th Century to deny God and credit existence to naturalistic forces is impressive. Without turning to sentimentality, he expresses his positive attitudes and directly meets pertinent issues in his society. Browning ingly with power and unwavering conviction of things not old or modern, but eternal. For him there was no dichotomy between doing good and being good. His deep faith in God and eternal life is the true and living God—a hope, a source of life, a strength, and an awesome divine potential for man. Man's strength comes from an inner greatness wrought by the living current of divine life within each man. Such a powerful message rings with glory and eloquence in all that Browning wrote.

UNIVERSALITY OF ROBERT BROWNING
Many of his ideas about God, the power of love, life here and hereafter, and the need for genuine sincerity and simplicity in Latter-day Saint doctrines and principles are equally significant. Equally significant is Browning's scorn of hypocrisy, self-righteousness, meaningless ritualism, bigotry, materialism, contented mediocrity, and rationalization. All the world recognizes the greatness of Robert Browning's poetry, and Browning clubs in many lands are active in studying the complexities and brilliance of his writings. Almost any way that one approaches Browning, he is a great poet. He is a master of poetic craftsmanship; he is a subtle and probing explorer of personality and character; he is a champion of ideals, a stimulator of thought, and a prober into human weaknesses. He appeals to thoughtful readers throughout the world, and he has a special appeal to readers within the Church, as the responses of the students quoted suggest.

Because of his greatness as a poet and because of the substance of his poetry and philosophy, more selections by Browning were printed in Out of the Best Books than any other writer. Selections, including Mrs. Browning's, are as follows (volumes 1 to 4 only since nothing by Browning appears in volume 5): Introduction to Browning (vol. 1, pp. 71-73) "A Grammarian's Funeral" (vol. 1, pp. 73-79) "An Epistle... of Karshish" (vol. 1, pp. 80-90) "Johannes Agricola in Meditation" (vol. I, pp. 234-37) "Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister" (vol. 1, pp. 234-37) "Soliloquy of the Spanish Cloister" (vol. 1, pp. 238-42) "Prospice" (vol. 1, pp. 459-60) "Rabbi Ben Ezra" (vol. 1, pp. 461-68) "O Lyric Love" (vol. 2, pp. 60-61) "My Last Duchess" (vol. 2, pp. 190-95) "Andrea del Sarto" (vol. 3, pp. 80-89) "Song From Pippa Passes" (vol. 4, pp. 72-73) Excerpt from "Fra Lippo Lippi" (vol. 4, p. 165) "Sonnets From the Portuguese" by Mrs. Browning (vol. 2, pp. 46-60)

We especially recommend for review "A Grammarian's Funeral," "An Epistle... of Karshish," "Prospice," and "Rabbi Ben Ezra." These and others are wonderfully stimulating.

EXCERPTS FROM 'RABBI BEN EZRA'
1 Grow old along with me!
The best is yet to be,
The last of life, for which the first was made.
Our times are in his hand
Who saith, "A whole I planned;
Youth shows but half. Trust God; see all, nor be afraid!"

5 Rejoice we are allied
To that which doth provide
And not partake, effect and not receive!
A spark disturbs our clod;
Nearer we hold of God
Who gives, than of his tribes that take,
I must believe.

13 Therefore I summon age
To grant youth's heritage,
Life's struggle having so far reached its term.
Thence shall I pass, approved
A man, for aye removed
From the developed brute— a god, though in the germ.

32 So, take and use
Thy work; Amend what flaws may lurk,
What strain o' the stuff, what warpings past the aim!
My times be in Thy hand!
Perfect the cup as planned!
Let age approve of youth, and death complete the same!

(Out of the Best Books, 1:461-463; 466.)

Discussion Question
Which of the ideas in Browning's writings especially appeal to you?

COMMENTS FROM ROMANTICISM THROUGH MODERN EYES BY BRUCE B. CLARK
A paragraph on Browning, excerpted from a small book entitled Romanticism Through Modern Eyes is given as further enrichment material:

Browning is probably the greatest poet of English romanticism excepting possibly William Wordsworth [whose poems will be reviewed in next month's cultural refinement lesson].... His brilliant dramatic monologues, dramatic soliloquies, and psychological soulstudies probe meaningfully into human personality and character;... Browning firmly believes that God is in Heaven controlling the universe and that, while much is wrong with the world, the potentiality of man in this life is great, and the confidence with which he can look forward to life beyond death is equally strong. Occasionally Browning speaks directly of himself and his views, as in the "Epilogue to Asolando" when he describes himself as

One who never turned his back but marched breast forward,
Never doubted clouds would break,
Never dreamed, though right were worsted, wrong would triumph,
Held we fall to rise, are battled to fight better,
Sleep to wake.

(Provo: BYU Press, 1970], (Bruce B. Clark, Romanticism Through Modern Eyes, pp. 55-58.)

"PROSPICE"
We include here "Prospice," which means "look forward." This is Browning's most direct expression of belief in immortality. Two ideas form the poem. One is simply a courageous attitude toward the experience of death—he has faced all life's experiences with vigor, and he will not now shrink from this final experience. The other idea, more philosophical, is the climax that ends the poem as with great confidence Browning anticipates the time when he will reach through death to reunite with his beloved wife ("O thou soul of my soul"), who had recently died.

**Prospice** by Robert Browning

Fear death?—to feel the fog in my throat,
The mist in my face,
When the snows begin, and the blasts denote
I am nearing the place,
The power of the night, the press of the storm,
The post of the foe;
Where he stands, the Arch Fear in a visible form,
Yet the strong man must go.

For the journey is done and the summit attained,
And the barriers fall.
Though a battle's to fight ere the guerdon be gained,
The reward of it all.

I was ever a fighter, so—one fight more,
The best and the last!
I would hate that death bandaged my eyes, and forebore,
And bade me creep past.
No! Let me taste the whole of it, fare like my peers,
The heroes of old,
Bear the brunt, in a minute pay glad life's arrears
Of pain, darkness, and cold.

For sudden the worst turns the best to the brave; The black minute's at end, And the elements' rage, the fiend-voices "that rave, Shall dwindle, shall blend, Shall change, shall become first a peace out of pain, Then a light, then thy breast, O thou soul of my soul! I shall clasp thee again, And with God be the rest! (Out of the Best Books, 1:459.) In order to appreciate the intense emotion of this poem we need to be reminded of the courtship and marriage of Robert Browning and Elizabeth Barrett, the most beautiful courtship and marriage in the history of English literature. When they met in 1845, Miss Barrett, six years older than Robert Browning, was already a celebrated poetess. She was also a semi-invalid who during years of delicate health had hidden in the seclusion of her rooms. Browning, aged thirty-three, was not yet acclaimed as a poet but already showed all the robustness and vigor that set him above ordinary men. He first learned of Miss Barrett through her poems, wrote her an admiring letter, met her, fell in love with her, as she with him, and after a whirlwind series of letters and visits, swept her "on" her feet for a secret wedding in 1846 that resulted in fifteen years of marriage ending with her death in 1861. All of this forms the background for "Prospice," written in 1861 shortly after Mrs. Browning's death.

Note how beautifully Browning's faith in life beyond death and in the reuniting of families eternally is harmonious with our Latter-day Saint faith. Note too the courage with which he looks on death as only one step in eternal progression.

Discussion Questions: Does a knowledge of the love story of Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning help us to appreciate his poetry? If so, why?

CONCLUSION

As anyone who reads Browning will discover, he is not an easy poet. His poems are immensely rewarding, but also difficult and challenging. Let Browning speak to your minds and hearts as he has done to millions of other readers so that you too can feel his greatness and inspiration. If you will discover him, your life will be enriched and uplifted.

877 November 1970

TOP BOOKS FOR $1.00 FOR JOINING BEEHIVE BOOKCLUB

| | h Treat | "BOOKS FOR ' 'Wheat THE NEW | CHURCH YEAR" 1. Out of the Best Books (Relief Society Lessons) 5. Readings for the Young & the Young at Heart Vol.1 $2.75; Vols.2-5 $2.25 ea. (Set $10.50) By Laura M. Hawkes $2.95 2. Gospel Doctrine (Priesthood course) $4.95 6. Beginnings - Carol Pearson $2.95 3. Book of Mormon Digest-John Hawkes $3.95 7. Search - Carol Pearson $2.95 (helpful in Gospel Doctrine Class-Sunday Sch.) 8. Saga of the Book of Abraham - Todd $4.95 4. Make a Treat With Wheat-Hazel Richards$1.95 9. Great Leadersofthe BofM-Cheesman $9.95

| would like to order one book priced at $4.95 or less for $1.00 as my incentive to join Beehive Bookclub. | may order other books at regular prices. | agree to return the "Order Form" each month or purchase the "Feature Book." For every $20 of non-discounted books | will receive a FREE BOOK! (Add 25c per book for postage. In Utah add 4% sales tax.)

BEEHIVE gooxcLusp Nemec. Cc ecewncewennmennesenanee=ssseaeunn

4663 Relabow Drive AGGVO@SS 2.28 nee nee cee neenoneneseneceseaneeunesensse nnn Salt Lake City,.. Utah 84107, City 2 eee eee eee eee Stet6t____ sa Zip

Happiness is a "Singing Mothers" "Choir Directors"

We specialize in Mail Order Service

a i | [ Sheet Music Pianos _ Instruments And Supplies Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department e@ @ Home of the world's finest.; Mason and Hamlin pianos Yes! We Ship All Over the World.

NEW ADDRESS- 65 South West Temple Street Salt Lake City, Utah 84101

UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.. Lowill seanene

8 MUSIC COMPANY 878 New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service.

Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50 Yearly Index Included Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed.

Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah

Zone land2 _. 55 Zone5.~ 75 Zone3 __.--.60 Zone6 -____-.85 Zone4 ~~ ~~.665 Zone7..-.--.95 Zone8_.. - -1.05 Ee = DESERET PPews PREsS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892

PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US " ROSE PARADE TOUR VIA SAN FRANCISCO VIA SAN DIEGO Dec. 26�Jan 2 Call or write for itineraries James Travel Tours 2230 Scenic Drive Salt Lake City, Utah 84109 Phone: 466-8723

A modern gas range gives you smokeless broiling instant-on, instant-off an automatically safe oven a self-cleaning oven le I �t >: i See the glamorous new models at your gas appliance dealer's.

MOUNTAIN FUEL SUPPLY COMPANY Natural Gas Sewice Lil 879

102 Mrs. Martha Jane Chappel Head 99 98 97 95 94 880 Farmington, New Mexico Mrs. Florence Pearl Young Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Agnes Anderson Thompson Layton, Utah Mrs. Sarah Burr Coleman Teasdale, Utah Mrs. Jessie B. Smith Inman Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Caroline Brown Tolson Hartsville, South Carolina Mrs. Elizabeth Brown Holland Wiley Cardston, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Mary Ann Wilson Edson Ogden, Utah Mrs. Eda M. Martin Anaheim, California Mrs. Bertha R. Wagner Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lois Hunt West Novato, California Mrs. Laura Ann Finlayson Coombs Santaquin, Utah Mrs. Nannie Tuck Hackworth St. Anthony, Idaho Mrs. Mary Alice Bennett Labrum Meadow, Utah Mrs. Addie Thorne Nelson Roy, Utah Mrs. Clara Kunz Miller Cedron, idaho Mrs. Mary Matilda Gill Poulter Idaho Falls, Idaho Mrs. Maude Waddell Witt Ogden, Utah 93 92 91 90 Mrs. Nancy R. Shumake Richardson Festus, Missouri Mrs. Annabelle Coon Thomas Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Foddies Farrell Coalville, Utah Mrs. Emma Jane Robins Herbert Salina, Utah Mrs. Nellie Louise Packer Powell St. Anthony, idaho Mrs. Mary Ann Hubbard White Rexburg, Idaho Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Chard Clark Eden, Utah Mrs. Rose Grosjean Knutti Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Elizabeth Ophalia Smith Mortensen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Jane O'Brien Simmons Burley, Idaho Mrs. Sarah Pendrey West Cayucos, California Mrs. Idona Payton Adams Monterey Park, California Mrs. Maude Mariott Bell Ogden, Utah Mrs. Minnie Alice Wright Boyle Provo, Utah Mrs. Josie Ann Doss Gregory Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Mrs. Hallie Gardner Grigg Ontario, Oregon Mrs. Katie Clare Rodrick Hunt Pleasanton, California Mrs. Maude Ellen Ainsworth Ivie Klamath Falls, Oregon Mrs. Lavourn Hudson Stauffer Ogden, Utah Mrs. Rhoda Welling Taylor Springville, Utah Mrs. Mary Douglass Wirthlin Eureka, Utah FAMILY FOOD RESERVE e MEALS AS USUAL e LONGEST STORAGE LIFE UNITED COMMODITIES INTERNATIONAL Formerly Sam-Andy, Inc.

MINI-MOISTURE FOODS CANNISTER _ e Polyethylene and Foil Lined Cannister pACK e Longstorage Life e Supplement Every Meal @ Save on Food Costs e@ Convenient Sizes *UNICO mini-moisture food has the same flavor as the fresh products; the only difference is the moisture has been reduced. Reconstitute by adding water, use with yeast: mix 1/4 cup of UNICO mini-moisture pees in 2 cups warm water and add to yeast mixture. Use in baking, cooking, or as a supplement. For more information, send this card today. BUSINESS REPLY MAIL No postage stamp necessary if mailed in the United States Postage will be paid by UNITED COMMODITIES INTERNATIONAL Formerly Sam Andy, Inc. UNICO Box 2125 Beaumont, California 92233 FIRST CLASS PAID Permit 38 Beaumont, Calif.

HOMEMAKING \ SPECIALTIES by UNITED COMMODITIES INTERNATIONAL | formerly Sam Andy, Inc.

THANKSGIVING With Thanksgiving and Christmas just around the corner we wanted to tell you about our delicious cranberries, apricots, apples, peaches, pears, pineapple and the wildest fruit cocktail mix. BAKING Our fruit salad dressing is just out of this world and for all salads our brand new CANNING real bacon crumbles and of course salad oil. We have sour cream for your potatoes. PRESERVES Sweet cream for your pumpkin flakes. And for muffins, dessert topping and drink mixes DESSERTS our new fruit birds (B-B size pellets): blueberries, strawberries, oranges, pineapple and others. SOUPS Seasonings: mushrooms, bell peppers, onions are just a few. SALADS When you think about it we have everything you need for those special meals except the whole turkey and we are working on that. All these made simple with Unico Mini-Moisture Foods.

COOKBOOK..$2.95 FOR FREE SAMPLES SEND THIS CARD TODAY PLEASE SEND ME MORE INFORMATION AND FREE SAMPLES OF MINI-MOISTURE FOODS O FREE DEMONSTRATION & INFORMATION COOD STORAGE CLICANNISTER PACK OSPECIALTY FOODS (mushrooms, fruits, seasonings, etc.) OFRUIT BUDS (blueberry, strawberry, pineapple, orange, etc.) OREAL BACON CRUMBLES LIFRUIT SALAD DRESSING OTHER NAME PHONE ADDRESS CITY, STATE, ZIP

1. SEEK YE EARNESTLY $5.95 By President Joseph Fielding Smith For years a popular author (of 23 books) now here is his first and most important work published since he became President in January 1970. You'll find detailed answers to such questions as: exaltation. ORDER FROM DESERET BOOK COMPANY "B00 44 East South Temple, Sait Lake City, Utah 84110 OR 777 So. Main, Town & Country, Orange, Calif. 92668 Please send me copies Also include 25¢ for each book ordered to cover handling and mailing. Total cost must include 42% sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or 5% Sales tax from California residents ordering from Orange. Paid by check, money order, or charge established account.

Nov. R. S. Mag. 70 Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah

SWEETEN UP YOUR DAY! CHERRIES JUBILEE SAUCE A sauce so glamorous, elegant, and tasty, served over ham. Your guests and family will rave!

1. No. 2 can red sour cherries
   1 cup cider vinegar
   1/4 cup flour
   12 whole cloves
   1 tablespoon lemon juice
   1 stick cinnamon
   Red food coloring

2. Drain cherries, reserve liquid.
3. In pan, combine sugar, 2 cups cherry juice, vinegar, cloves, and cinnamon stick.
4. Bring mixture to a boil, reduce heat, cook about 10 minutes.
5. Meanwhile, mix flour with 4 tablespoons cherry liquid until smooth.
6. Gradually strain spice mixture into flour and cook until thick.
7. Add cherries, lemon juice, and a few drops of red food coloring and continue cooking until cherries are heated.

To serve: pour over sliced ham which has been baked according to directions on wrapper.

U AND I SUGAR COMPANY Factories in Garland and West Jordan, Utah; near Idaho Falls, Idaho; Moses Lake and Toppenish, Washington.