The Relief Society Magazine " MAY 1970 Mire THE STORYTELLER

Running, laughing, the happy children came up the paths and over little bridges to Anna's house. This was their story hour. Lifted on winds of legend they became river runners, builders of canoes, trail blazers. Blanketed on boughs of forest pine, marking the cushioned passing of a bear.

High on a mountain, higher than timberline, in feathered soundlessness they watched an eagle build an aerie, twig on twig. Low in the marshes, under the swamp-grass plumes, they touched young avocets, a nest of reeds carefully laid, blade on blade. Loving the earth as they would always love it, the children waved to Anna, then were gone.

Knowing they would come again tomorrow, she, who never bore a child, could bear her sorrow. —Peggy Tangren

The Cover: J Wild Garden in the Mountains, Sanpete County, Utah Transparency by Lucien Bown Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Frontispiece: § Valley in the Mountains Photograph by David Muench Art Layout: § Dick Scopes Illustrations: | Mary Scopes 321

I think it is wonderful to have the lessons right in the Magazine and to publish them in such a way that those of us at a great distance from Salt Lake City have them in plenty of time to prepare the lessons. . . . There is so much I would like to tell you about the sweet humble sisters here in Fiji. In our newest branch, the Relief Society president is a sweet Indian sister who also conducts the singing and translates the lessons into Hindustani. Belle M. Oswald, Suva, Fiji

A note of appreciation for the Magazine— if there are women anywhere in the world who feel the need to be devoted wives, loving mothers, true friends, seeking a guide— The Relief Society Magazine is that ray— if it is read from cover to cover and the meetings are attended by the sisters— then they are safe and all is well. Iris Rosser, Selkirk, Manitoba, Canada

The Relief Society Magazine is always an anticipated pleasure for me. I enjoy the wholesome stories and poems, along with the wonderful lessons. I am thankful that I found the Church—or rather the missionaries found me ten years ago. Edna M. Kent, Escondido, California

Thank you for your support of the missionary work. The little gems of thought that we read in The Relief Society Magazine encourage and uplift us. Elder Greg LaCheminant, Niteroi, R.J. Brazil

I really enjoyed the article on sourdough ("Make a New Start With Alaskan Sourdough" by Edythe K. Watson, February 1970). While on Okinawa we were given a start of 1898 Alaska strain by our District President C. Wayne Jenkins. In June, just before we left Okinawa, the start was accidentally thrown out. We missed our sourdough. Later, after returning home, I was in a doctor's office and the subject of sourdough came up. The doctor, a woman, then recounted how a Mormon friend and former missionary to Alaska had given her a start of this 1898 strain when they were neighbors in Nashville, Tennessee. To make a long story short, 10,000 miles from the place of our first start, we were given a replacement of the same strain. It's a small world—I wonder where else this former missionary's sourdough has been. Judith L. Gaskin, Rockville, Maryland

As a member of the Church for the past eight years, and a steady subscriber to The Relief Society Magazine, I express my appreciation for the great enlightenment I receive from the Magazine. It always meets my need. The September 1969 issue was a special joy for the visiting teacher message. It gave me a new understanding of what the gospel means and what it takes to gain eternal life. I shall never part with my silent friend—The Relief Society Magazine. Violet M. Tate, Pennsauken, New Jersey

I wish to express gratitude for the wonderful lessons for the Relief Society meetings. I know the world over many are grateful for the help these lessons have given. There is a world of education from the Magazine. Through the years it has helped me to be a better mother, housekeeper, and has given me a desire to read better literature. Sharon Haxton, Cheltenham, Victoria, Australia

Please send me The Relief Society Magazine. I am not of your faith, but I do enjoy the stories, recipes, and the ideas each month. I have been reading Mary Beagley's Magazines, so I am sure I shall enjoy the ones of my own subscription, and I will pass them on to my neighbors. Mrs. Donald Fitch, Travis A.F.B., California

The Relief Society Magazine volume 57 May 1970 Number 5 Editor Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor Vesta P. Crawford Business Manager Belie S. Spafford 

Contents

Special Features  
324 A Beautiful Journey Aline R. Pettit  
329 Children Grow Up With Poetry May C. Hammond  
341 Teach Your Toddler Gospel Truths Margery Cannon  
345 A Mark in the Meadow Sylvia Probst Young  
349 Day's End—Bay of Islands Olive B. Taylor  
354 As Mother Sees Beauty Marcella H. Morley  

Fiction  
334 The Doll of Olden Days Lael J. Littke  
346 Cradle Song Phyllis Davidson  
350 Whatever Will Become of Rory! Mary Ek Knowles  
380 Jerusha Spends the Night—Chapter 5 Hazel K. Todd  

General Features  
322 From Near and Far  
342 Editorial—"Through His Diligence and Obedience" Marianne C. Sharp  
344 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon  
308 Notes from the Field—Relief Society Activities  

The Home—Inside and Out  
357 Collector's Item, Betty G. Spencer;  
358 Vacations Are for Mothers, too, Kathryn E. Franks;  
363 Whatever Happened to Singing?, Olga Milius;  
364 My Third Hand, Lillian Y. Bradshaw;  
366 I Can Hear the Birds Sing, Lettice O. Rich;  
369 The Nightingale, Delores Arden;  
370 One Step At a Time, Judyth S. Peterson;  
372 How Many Ways to Stroganoff?, Arlene L. Bascom;  
375 Hobby Features—Mattie O. Shurtliff and Jessie C. McCabe;  
376 The Kranj Wonder, Helen Hinckley Jones;  
378 A "Beddy-Bye" Tradition, Hattie B. Maughan.

Lesson Department  
394 Homemaking—The Art of Cooking from the Storage Closet (cont.) Celestia J. Taylor  

Poetry  
321 The Storyteller, Peggy Tangren;  
333 Arrayed As These, Iris W. Schow;  
339 We Would Rather Walk, Zara Sabin;  
340 On May's Green Hills, Alda Larson Brown;  
348 Thy Spirit Everywhere, Wilma Morley Despain;  
354 My Homeland, Evelyn N. Robinson;  
355 Listen for Laughter, Maxine R. Jennings;  
356 Dear Mother, Linnie Fisher Robinson;  
368 Unexpected Happiness, Annie Atkin Tanner;  
369 Remembrance in the Rain, Helen Clegg Broadbent;  
371 Storm!, Betty W. Madsen;  
385 Children in the Night, Christie Lund Coles;  
397 Pussy Willows, Ethel Jacobson;  
398 I Would Be Flexible, Beulah H. Sadleir;  
398 To My Son, Leaving, Vesta N. Fairbairn.

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. © 1970 by the Relief Society General Board Association. Editorial and Business Office: 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111; Phone 364-2511; Subscription Price $2.50 a year; foreign, $2.50 a year, 25¢ a copy, payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Subscriptions or renewals for one year only will be accepted. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.

323 A Beautiful Journey

A result of an emergency telephone call, my sister and I, after several hours of flying time, found ourselves walking down the corridor of the San Gabriel Community Hospital to our mother's room. Our brother greeted us. Mother did not know we were there. All night she was restless and occasionally muttered in tones barely audible. Towards morning she started to speak more clearly. As we listened, we could hear the words of the Twenty-third Psalm. "The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want." We leaned over to hear "Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow..." She was repeating the Psalm and it was word perfect. By the time she came to the last line, "I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever," the words were completely understandable. She turned to us and smiled. Her mind seemed to clear. Her eyes brightened. She knew we were with her. As we left the hospital later that day, we were deeply moved. It was the first time in her eighty-eight years that Mother had been seriously ill. The doctors were as surprised as we that she had rallied.

As we talked together, my brother, sister, and I, memories of our childhood came flooding back. Paramount in our reminiscences was the awareness of our mother's purity of thought. How typical that she should repeat the Twenty-third Psalm! Vivid in our memories was Mother busying herself about the house reciting a favorite poem or giving a special thought or bit of scripture which especially appealed to her. Mother not only read voraciously, she memorized. As she read she always had pencil and paper nearby, and when she found something that appealed to her, she wrote it down, not to be filed away but to be memorized. As children we were not as enthused as she about "learning things by heart," but nevertheless it was required of us. We did not just wash dishes in our house, we washed dishes and committed to memory the special thought tacked over the sink. The same memorization was required when we ironed. Part of our training in "elocution" involved reciting in front of the mirror in the bathroom so we could master the proper gestures and facial expressions.

Mother was active in Relief Society for forty-eight consecutive years. Most of that time she taught theology and literature. Teaching meant giving the lesson as outlined, plus memorizing all the scripture or literary works offered. To her it was a sin to read anything from the printed page. And that applied whether she was teaching from Shakespeare, Browning, Longfellow, or James Whitcomb Riley. One of my earliest memories is of Mother reciting Eugene Field's "Little Boy Blue." I remember sitting at her feet with my brother and sister as she spoke softly:

The little toy dog is covered with dust,
But sturdy and staunch he stands;
The little toy soldier is red with rust,
And his musket molds in his hands.

Time was when the little toy dog was new,
And the soldier was passing fair;
And that was the time when our Little Boy Blue
Kissed them and put them there.

We heard the poem many, many times, but we always cried at the last line because the little boy died. Mother's life centered around two great loves: her family and her Relief Society. My father, a native of Huntsville, Utah, a graduate in law from Northwestern University and an adventurer at heart, moved his family from Utah to California O Lydia Knudsen Rawson in 1919. It was the era in California when fortunes were made and lost overnight. Father drilled some of the first oil wells in Huntington Beach, California. He bought and sold property along Wilshire Boulevard when it was a small road leading through the wheat fields. He subdivided a large tract of land in the Santa Monica Mountains.

Mother, who had never before been out of Utah, felt lost and lonely in this strange land. As it turned out, however, it was a happy experience for both of them because in May 1970 California Dad found the adventure he was looking for and Mother found Relief Society. In 1923 the first Los Angeles Stake in California was organized. Mother was one of the original members of the first Stake Relief Society Board. Four years later, Hollywood Stake was created, with Sister Katherine Romney Stewart as president and Mother was one of her counselors. For eighteen years these sisters and their board worked tirelessly in establishing the foundation of Relief Society in Southern California. In 1929, when the economic crash occurred, my father lost what he had acquired and developed those first years in California. It could have been a devastating experience for our family, but our parents believed that staying close to the Lord was more important than riches.

"Remember the poem about 'God's Undying Love,'" Mother would say:

God hath not promised skies always blue,
Flower-strewn pathways all our lives through.
God hath not promised sun without rain,
Joy without sorrow, peace without pain.
But God hath promised strength for the day,
Rest for the labor, peace for the way,
Grace for the trials, help from above
Unfailing sympathy, undying love.

(unknown author)

Children, Aline, LoRee, and William K. Rawson in 1924.

Mother (Lydia Knudsen) had known hardship before in her life. A daughter of pioneer parents, she was reared in Provo, Utah. Her father, Andrew Knudsen, was eight years old when his parents settled in Provo at the request of Brigham Young. It was a rigorous life. Farming near Utah Lake in the early days meant grubbing willows and back-breaking labor taming the soil before planting could be done. There was always danger of floods. Their pioneer homes were often inadequate protection from the cold winters.

When Mother was a little girl, the Andrew Knudsen family moved to a home in the town of Provo, but they still maintained the farm at the Lake. Mother was the oldest girl in a family of seven. There were hard times when her father filled a three-year mission in his native land of Norway, leaving his wife and family to farm during his absence. There were hard times when Grandma Knudsen suffered poor health after the birth of her last child, and Mother had to leave school and take over the family responsibilities.

Mother loved to relate stories of her life as a girl, and we were avid listeners. Their farm was three miles from their home. During the summer, Mother often spent the days at the farm cooking for the men. One evening she was riding her bicycle home at dusk. It took a steady hand to keep the bicycle in the wagon ruts on the dirt road. She was concentrating on this feat and failed to notice in the dim light a large bump in the road until she was on top of it. Imagine her shock when the bump turned out to be a cow which rose up in fright and tossed her, bicycle and all, over the fence.

Mother's never-failing sense of humor was a great source of strength to her family in those difficult days of the depression. We had no money for travel or vacations or commercial entertainment. Priceless were the evenings when she would entertain us with stories given in "broken English." She mastered the art of mimicking many of the people she had known as a girl.

Mother had a great warmth of personality. She showed us how to love, to suffer, to be happy, to laugh at the humorous things in life. With the depression, many young people came to California from Utah, Arizona, and Nevada, seeking employment. Wilshire Ward in Los Angeles, our ward, was the center for the Latter-day Saint young people. Our home became a home away from home for many of them. A boy without a job was always welcome to a meal. A young girl not able to pay for her own apartment could stay with us until she found something of her own. Many were amazed that our mother could carry on with so much activity around her all the time. But she loved it.

Christmas in the days of our teenage years always brought two new formal dresses under the tree, one for me and one for my sister, who was one year and one day younger than I. The Christmas dance at Wilshire Ward was the highlight of the year, and Mother made sure we always went in new dresses. Sewing was not easy for her, but determination and love made up for her lack of skill. The finished product was always something beautiful and fun to wear.

The M-Men and Gleaners spent weeks planning and decorating for the big Christmas dance. Perhaps this was the reason we enjoyed it to the fullest. To us the hall was a festive fairyland; the waltzes were "heavenly," and our friends the finest in the world. Latter-day Saint standards were faithfully observed. After the dance, we usually gathered at our home for Mother's famous chili and beans, hot chocolate, and butter cookies.

Mother was never an onlooker on life. On the contrary, she was always in the middle of it. When she was in her late seventies, and alone, my brother built her a lovely little house at the rear of his home. She went there to live, but she refused to settle down to being an old lady. Relief Society in her new ward needed her, and she needed them; she would say.

One day several years after Mother moved to her little home, my sister-in-law found her crumpled on the lawn where she had collapsed while hanging out some clothes. She was hurrying to get her washing done so she could go visiting teaching with her partner. Later, when the doctors examined her at the hospital, she asked: "Will I be able to go home in a week? I'm scheduled to give a lesson in my Church next Wednesday." She was the visiting teacher message leader at the time. The fact that she was then eighty-eight years old and that perhaps her body was beginning to fail did not dawn on her.

Her illness was more serious than she had thought. Mother will be ninety next July. At the time of my last visit, she was elated because her Camp of the Daughters of the Pioneers had transferred their meeting place to her convalescent home so she could share in the lessons with them. "Can you hear the lessons as they give them, Mother?" I asked.

"No, I can't hear them because my hearing is almost gone, but that doesn't matter," she said.

You see, I've been asked to give a poem at each meeting and that is such a joy to me." "But, Mother," I said, "how can you read a poem when your eyes are so dim?" I should have known better than to ask that question. "Of course I don't read the poems! One of the ladies here helps me and I memorize them." "You memorize a new poem for each monthly meeting?" "Certainly," she answered. "I surely can't remain here and do nothing!" Bless you, Mother, for making your life a thing of beauty. It is a privilege to hold your hand and know that through you there is a link with a marvelous pioneer heritage. Through you we have seen life lived from barefoot days on sandy country roads to the footprints of man on the moon. It has been a beautiful journey because always you have looked beyond the clouds to see the glory of each sunrise.

Children Grow Up With Poetry
May C. Hammond
Assistant Professor Emeritus of Education
Brigham Young University

The poet has the child's sight in his breast
And sees all new.
Whatever he has viewed
He views with the first glory.
—Elizabeth Barrett Browning

The poet and the child have much in common, and only that poet who can be a child—who can experience the wonder and newness—only this poet can write poetry for children. Luckily we have many fine poets who possess this gift.

Laura E.K. Richards, herself a poet, tells us that poetry is the child's natural heritage. She tells that this sense of rhythm if not nurtured on rhyme may soon disappear.
Fairy gift, not being used it soon fades away.
Children respond readily to rhyme and rhythm, to "tune and runningness." Children also delight in words—words that give sensory images, color and sound, taste and movement. Even with little or no understanding of the content children respond to "Mother Goose," so rich in these qualities.

May Becker insists that
ing to the enjoyment of poetry is such an easy transition from "Mother Goose" to the delightful nonsense verse of A.A. Milne or Laura E.K. Richards, or to the more modern poets who are writing verse for children.

Children also delight in the imaginative quality of poetry. They delight in the stirring sense of wonder which is often the poet's delight.
Neil Armstrong, in a television appearance before Congress, made the statement that "mystery and wonder" were the motivating factors that finally led to the landing on the moon. Mystery and wonders stimulate the imagination and are essential to all creative effort in the sciences as well as the arts.

There is pleasure and stimulation, especially for the imaginative child, in something not perfectly comprehended, in vistas d of him waiting to be explored.
The poem "The
of wonder." What do you see so queer?" he answers only, "But tell me what do you hear?"
The children guess and guess. 329 May 1970

But he never would tell us the name of his tune The funny old bagpipe man!
Walter de la Mare had the ability to evoke this feeling of wonder in children. He was a master of the "unanswered question." His poem "Someone" is a good example. It is always a favorite of young children who never tire of guessing who "came knocking."

In children's fresh outlook on life nothing needs to remain commonplace.
How much more beautiful wild carrot becomes after one has heard it spoken of as "Queen Anne's Lace."
Never again will it seem just a common weed by the roadside.

"The Firefly," by Elizabeth Maddox Roberts, is a poem of pure beauty and wonder and makes this little "bug" also a thing of delight.
The poem is typical of this poet's style.

THE FIREFLY
A little light is going by,
Is going up to meet the sky,
A little light with wings.
I never would have thought of it
To have a little bug all lit
And made to go on wings.

What is poetry? How can we be sure that we are giving the best to our children?
Walter de la Mare tells us that only the best of anything is good enough for children. How can we know what is best?
Since each person responds to a poem in a different way, perhaps the comments of poets will help us in our understanding.
These statements are somewhat illusive but they are interesting.

William Rose Benet tells us that poetry is "the quicksilver element in all art."
Robert Frost says that a poem "begins in delight and ends in wisdom."
Elizabeth Drew speaks of poetry as revealing "not only spiritual values but all values, intellectual, emotional, and sensuous."

Our personal reactions vary, but if we are poetry lovers we will confess to some such reactions as those expressed by Emily Dickinson.
Speaking of her personal reactions to poetry she tells us that she "sometimes feels so cold no fire could warm her," and often "as if the top of her head were coming off."
In a lovely and illusive definition of poetry Eleanor Farjeon gives us the idea that poetry conveys to our senses the light, the gleam, the scent, and even the sound of things in a way that stirs our emotions.

But exactly what is poetry? Who knows?
What is poetry? Who knows?

Not the rose, but the scent of the rose;
Not the sky, but the light in the sky;
Not the fly, but the gleam of the fly;
Not the sea, but the sound of the sea;
Not myself, but what makes me
See, hear, and feel something that prose
Cannot.

And what it is, who knows?

'The Bagpipe Man," from Magpie Lane by Nancy Byrd Turner, copyright 1927. Used by permission of Harcourt, Brace and World Inc.
"The Firefly," from Under the Tree, by Elizabeth Maddox Roberts, copyright 1922 by B.W. Huebsch Inc., 1940, by The Viking Press. Used by permission.
'Copyright 1938, by Eleanor Farjeon. Renewal 1966, by Gervase Farjeon. From the book Poems for Children by Eleanor Farjeon. Copyright, 1951, by Eleanor Farjeon. Reprinted by permission of J.B. Lippincott Company.

330

There are, however, certain qualities by which we can learn to recognize good poetry.
We do not need to remain wholly in the dark.
We are indebted to May Hill Arbuthnot (Children and Books) for these standards for judging poetry:

First, does it sing—with good rhythm, true unforced rhymes and a happy compatibility of sound and subject?
Second, is the diction distinguished—with words that are rich in sensory and connotative meanings, words that are unhackneyed, precise and memorable?
Third, does the subject matter of the poem invest the strange or the everyday experiences of life with importance and richer meaning?

Children's taste in poetry will improve only if they have repeated experiences with good poetry.
This same thing is, of course, true of adults.

Walter Barnes (The Children's Poets) tells us that a child should be made to "stand on tiptoe" now. And then, in other words he must reach up for understanding.

It is the occasional poem that a child cannot quite understand that will make him stand on tiptoe. Lucky the child who has an understanding adult to help him over the hurdle. If we are concerned with making poetry lovers of our children, we will begin early. We will keep in mind that poetry read to the young child should have action and liveliness and should be about things and situations with which he is familiar. Pictures are helpful to complete enjoyment and they should be realistic enough for him to understand. They should give added meaning to the poem.

As children grow more accustomed to hearing poetry, they begin to respond to the lyric in which feeling and emotion play a predominant part. We speak of the lyric poets as "singers of song," the poetry has a song-like quality. Much of the mystery and wonder of our world has been explored by these poets. Since many of the poets of childhood have written poetry of the fairy world, this is a delightful field to explore. Many of the lovely things of this world we liken to a fairy world. We say of the Temple Square with the lights of Christmas that "it is like a fairyland." Children have keen imaginations and, while perhaps not actually believing in fairies, they delight in poetry which describes this world just over the edge of reality.

Young children love the tiny gauze-winged creatures created by Rose Fyleman with whom they can identify themselves. Rose Fyleman solemnly advises children who meet a fairy, "don't run away." Older children will respond to the quite different creatures created by Walter de la Mare. This fine poet is a master at portraying the "wee folk" often grotesque and ugly. His famous "Lob-Lie-by-the-Fire" is described as having "great hands" and "big nose," but he makes up for his ugliness by his goodness—his "great heart" which, "belies his great nose." This endears him to children.

Beginning an early introduction to poetry involves, of course, beginning in the home. Have at hand a book or several books of poems for children. Know where to find quickly a poem to fit an occasion or an experience. Have "in your head" or readily available a poem for that sudden shower or a lovely fall of snow when 'fence posts wear marshmallow hats,' or when the first daffodil is in bloom with 'golden wings and a golden cup.' Be prepared for this spontaneous use of poetry, but remember there is such a thing as overdoing it. Plan also for a quiet time to read poetry with children. It may be when seated on mother's or father's lap when all are ready for bed. For Family Home Evening, children may choose their favorite poems for an adult to read, or they may contribute the poems they have memorized. Even three-year-olds delight in having a poem to contribute on occasions or special holidays when there is an adult audience ready to listen and give approval.

It is surprising how easily young children memorize poetry. Add a few new poems each time to enlarge the horizon. Try many kinds of poetry. Sometimes children are hungry for nonsense and humor. Again, they need more serious poetry. Do not ask after reading a poem, "Did you like that?" This too often calls for a negative response. Watch for the signs that show a child's pleasure: a smile or a chuckle, a comment such as, "I like that," or "read it again." Sometimes a certain intentness of feeling is visible but not put into words. Silence after the reading of a poem is one evidence of its success. Sometimes we are silent when we feel most deeply.

The child or the adult will acquire good taste in poetry if he encounters good poetry and experiences pleasure in the encounter. The poetry must be fine in content and expression. It must be poetry which, in the words of A. A. Milne, "will sing itself into your head and stay there forever." Helping children to acquire a love for poetry is a rewarding experience, rewarding for you and doubly rewarding for your children.

Are you taking advantage of the golden opportunity to enrich the lives of your children?

BIBLIOGRAPHY

There are many fine anthologies available and many books containing the poetry of only one poet. I submit only two anthologies, the poems in each case were selected by experts in this field:

- Frank, Josette, ed. More Poems to Read to the Very Young, ill. By Dagmar Wilson (Random House). This is an excellent introduction to poetry for the pre-school child. Enjoyed even by three-year-olds because pictures interpret the poems.

- Arbuthnot, May Hill, ed. Time for Poetry (Scott Foresman, Trade ed. A. Whitman). More than seven hundred poems ranging from "Mother Goose" to T. S. Eliot. An excellent anthology.

ARRAYED AS THESE

These are the timeless fashions,
The ultimate in clothes:
The lily's graceful princess gown,
The ruffles of the rose.
~Iris W. Schow
PHOTO BY DON KNIGHT

The Doll of Olden Days
Lael J. Littke

At first I was pleased when Mama assigned me to be in charge of looking after my little sister Norrie. All of us children were given some particular task to take care of that summer since Mama was so busy with our brand new baby sister, Margie. The boys were to see that the woodbox by the old stove was kept full and, of course, help Dad with the cows and other farm chores. The older girls were each assigned to do something like gather eggs or help with the washing, ironing, and cooking. But Mama said my job was just about the most important of all since I was to be responsible for Norrie.

I was flattered that she had such confidence in me. It took me only about four days to realize what a heavy thing responsibility is, especially when it applied to taking care of 334 Norrie. After all, she was a mere four years old while I was just a few weeks short of reaching the exalted age of eight. Our interests were not the same. Very quickly I wearied of reading Mother Goose and playing "Ring Around the Rosy." And I resented having her tag along after me and my friends when we wanted to do something because she always got tired practically before we started.

It wasn't long until my friends started leaving me out of their plans because they said Norrie's whining got on their nerves. So, resentful and unhappy, I spent the irreplaceable summer days in Norrie's constant company.

"Norrie," I would say, looking down into her dark-lashed blue eyes, "you are a pest. A p-e-s-t. Pest."

Norrie's big eyes would fill with unshed tears and she would stand there just looking at me until I softened. She really wasn't such a bad little kid and she couldn't help that she was only four.

"Aw, come on, then," I would say, "I'll swing you 'round the moon." I would grasp her thin little arms and swing her around and around and around until we both collapsed giddy and giggling on the cool grass. "Oh, I wish we could do it some more," she'd say.

Norrie was a creature of unrequited, impossible loves, of unfulfilled longing, and endless yearning. She loved the fierce yellow stray cat who haunted the neighborhood and hissed at her whenever she approached to offer him food. She longed to go play on the schoolyard swings like the "big kids." She yearned to be a grownup lady and wear lipstick and high heels like our sixteen-year-old sister Mavis did. She wanted to have a jackknife like our brother Bill, one with seven blades that could do everything you could think of. She practically went into a decline wishing she could be the Sunday School chorister and stand up in front of all the people waving a slender white stick.

But, most of all, Norrie wanted The Doll of Olden Days to play with my Doll of Olden Days. My Doll of Olden Days was not just an ordinary doll. In the first place, she was very old. She had belonged first to our Grandmother Nichols, and then to Mama who was Grandma's only daughter. Mama had given her to Mavis when she was six. The doll had belonged to Mavis until Jenny turned six, then to Alice when she reached that age. Alice had her only a short while since I turned six just fourteen months after she did, but she didn't care because she preferred baseball bats to dolls.

The Doll of Olden Days was my dearest possession. I knew that one day I would have to give her up to Norrie, but that just made her more precious. I never did really play with her—she wasn't that kind of doll. She had a special place in the glass-fronted cupboard in the parlor and she was more to look at than anything else, although I—and only I—could take her out and hold her or show her to someone. She had flaxen hair, blue eyes, and an old-fashioned painted china face attached to a stuffed body, with tiny china shoes fastened to her lumpy, stuffed legs. For each new owner Grandma made a complete new outfit, from frilly little pantaloons to a full-skirted pioneer dress with tiny matching bonnet. She had never had a name. She was simply called "The Doll of Olden Days."

Sometimes I let Norrie watch me while I held the Doll of Olden Days, but I wouldn't let her touch the doll. Norrie liked to sit in front of the glass-fronted cupboard, and with eyes shining with longing, wish that she could just hold the doll, even for one little tiny minute.

Perhaps if she had been my own forever-and-ever doll, I might have let Norrie take her, but since I would have to give her up in two more years, I hardened my heart to Norrie's wishing. As my eighth birthday neared, Norrie divided her most fervent yearning between longing to play with the doll and wishing that she, too, were going to be eight so she could be baptized as I was going to be.

I paid little attention to her, though, since it was finally my turn to be the center of attention while I descended into the tiled baptismal font and was immersed in water. When the big day came and I stood there dressed in white, shoulder deep in the warm water waiting for the proper words to be said on my head by Dad, the only thing I saw clearly and remembered later was Norrie's face as she sat on a chair by the edge, her eyes huge and glazed over with longing.

Later, when it was all over and we were back home playing, she could talk of nothing else but the baptism. "Oh, Kathy," she whispered, "you were beautiful. Kathy, do you think I'll ever be eight so I can wear a white dress and have all my sins washed away?" "Sure you will," I said, "but what sins have you got to be washed away?"

She thought for a while, then said, "I expect I'll have some by the time I'm eight." So for the next several days she longed for some sins to have ready to be cleansed from her small soul when she was baptized. One day she asked me if I thought dropping her bread and jam on Mama's best bedspread qualified as a sin, but I told her it was hardly worth mentioning since the bread landed jam side up.

As the summer wore on, my tolerance of Norrie wore out. One day, after reciting to her a list of penalties for little girls who didn't do as they were told, I left her alone down by the creek in the lower cow pasture and went off to play with my friends Judy and Shirlene. I didn't stay long because I was uneasy about what Mama would say if Norrie wandered back to the house without me.

I heard Norrie screaming as I returned to the creek. She's gone and fallen in and drowned, I thought, breaking into a run. She was in, all right, but she hadn't fallen. She had gone in deliberately. There she stood in the icy water, holding her dripping skirt high and crying. "Come on out," I yelled. "Don't you know better than to go in there?" Norrie just stood there and wept. "Come on out," I repeated. "I can't find her," Norrie wailed.

Apprehension clutched my throat. "Find who?" I managed to say. "The Doll of Olden Days," Norrie cried. "I was baptizing her and I lost her. I'm afraid she's drownded."

"Norrie," I yelled. "Norrie, did you take my doll out of the cupboard?" She nodded miserably, her teeth chattering from the chilly water. "I sneaked up and took her," she admitted.

I kicked off my shoes and waded into the creek. "Where did you lose her?" I demanded. Norrie pointed. "Oh, Norrie," I cried. "How could you do such a thing?" I grabbed her by the shoulders and shook her. When I let go, she fell down, getting the rest of her dress soaked. "I just wanted to baptize her," she sobbed.

I groaned. "She's probably all the way down to the river by now." But she wasn't. She was caught in a tangle of willows just a few yards from where Norrie lost her. She was soaked and bedraggled, but her paint hadn't yet washed off. "Come on," I said, jerking Norrie from the water. "I'm going to tell Mama."

On the way home, through chattering teeth, Norrie asked, "Was that a bad enough sin to have washed away when I'm eight?" "It will take more than being baptized to wash that one away," I said. "Norrie, you stole. Something terrible will happen to you." Norrie looked alarmed. "How terrible?" she whispered.

"T don't know," I said, "but pretty bad." I knew I was being too hard on her because she had just meant to borrow the doll, not steal it. I was angry, though, and didn't care what I said. But when a few days later, Norrie came down with a high fever and a hacking cough, I wished I hadn't said it. And when the doctor came and said Norrie had pneumonia, I could have bitten my tongue off altogether. I had known she was susceptible to colds and fevers. I should never have left her alone by the creek where she could get wet—or even drown. Norrie got worse. The day came when she didn't even know any of us, just rambled on about the Doll of Olden Days and how the two of them were going to play in a big room where the floor was soft like clouds and the ceiling was just as blue as the sky. I didn't know the word remorse, but I well knew its meaning. If only I hadn't left Norrie alone that day none of this would have happened. If only I hadn't shaken her she wouldn't have fallen down and got completely wet. If only I hadn't said something terrible would happen to her. I prayed constantly, casting about for bargains I could make with Heavenly Father if only he would let Norrie get well. "I'll watch her every single day without complaining," I promised. "I'll even let her open all the Mother's Oats boxes to see what kind of dish is inside." I also went to Norrie's bedside and made promises. "Norrie," I whispered, "if you'll just get well I'll read Mother Goose all day long if you want." Norrie's eyelids didn't even flicker. Desperately, I promised the ultimate. "Norrie, if you'll just get well I'll give you the Doll of Olden Days right now before you're even six."

337 May 1970

Thinking it might do some good to let Norrie know my word was good, I went and got the doll, now dried out and looking not too much worse for her adventure, and put her on the bed. Norrie didn't even know she was there. Oh, why had I been so selfish? I asked myself. Why hadn't I let Norrie hold the doll when she had wanted to so bad? What good was a Doll of Olden Days if my little sister was going to die?

She didn't die, though. One day the fever went down and the first thing she saw when she opened her eyes was The Doll of Olden Days. Wrapping her arms tightly around the doll, she smiled and drifted off into normal sleep. I was well pleased with my bargain and vowed to do anything at all that Norrie wanted me to do. I would be her slave and her slightest whim would be my command.

As Norrie began to get well, all of us gave her everything she wished for. Dad brought her a kitten. Bill let her play with his jackknife, watching carefully to see that she didn't hurt herself. As soon as she was able to get up, Mavis let her dress up in her prettiest party dress and teeter around on her high heels. Norrie got everything she wanted, but she was never satisfied. She whined and complained and was a regular grouch, not at all like the sweet little girl she had been before the pneumonia.

But she continued to improve physically until she looked even better than she had before her illness because she put on a little weight. 338

That was when I began to think about taking back the Doll of Olden Days although I knew Norrie would make a terrible fuss. But the thing was, she didn't appreciate the doll now that she could play with her any time she wanted. She treated her no better than she treated her four other battered dolls. She took to dragging her around by one leg, mindless of the fact that her head bumped along the ground. When I cautioned her to be careful, she said that the doll was hers and that she could do anything she wanted with it and I didn't have any business telling her what to do.

I was in a dilemma. I had failed my responsibility before and it had been my fault that Norrie got sick, so I didn't want to fail again. It was my responsibility now to make Norrie happy, if possible. But I was also responsible for the Doll of Olden Days, wasn't I? So many little girls had enjoyed her in the past and had taken good care of her while she was theirs so that she could be passed on to yet another little girl. She was something precious, something special and fragile, more than just a doll. She was a link between the past and the present and should be cherished.

I couldn't let her be dragged in the dirt and broken. Besides, I reasoned, it wouldn't make Norrie any more unhappy to lose her than she was already, because it seemed as if the more we did for her and gave her, the more unhappy she became. Norrie cried, as I knew she would, when I took the Doll of Olden Days.

I tried to reason with Norrie, wiping the tears from her eyes with the back of my hand as she watched me put the doll back on the shelf in the glass-fronted cupboard where it had been for so long. "Norrie," I said when we got there, "were going to put the Doll of Olden Days back in the cupboard where she won't get all dirty and ruined." That way well it was a happy sound, and she sat down in front of the cupboard, just as she used to do.

"Norrie," I said, "she'll be mine when I'm six."

"Oh," Norrie breathed, gazing at her. "Margie's when she's six."

"Yes," I said, "and she'll be yours too."

And at the Doll of Olden Days, "T somebody else's after that." wish I was six." ce) WE WOULD RATHER WALK "We would rather walk," we used to say 'We would rather walk,'' we used to say, though miles were one or ten— "it is just a block or two— talking, laughing all the way— hardly more than over the way— we were younger then. Really kind of you." "We would rather walk,"' we used to say "We would rather walk,'' we used to say— when going to the store, This is springtime walking weather, "This is a perfect walking day— but here we sit from morn till night, walking is never a chore." two old friends together. —Zara Sabin

339 Teach Your Toddler Gospel Truths
Margery Cannon = A young mother leaving for a week-end trip, deposited her eighteen-month-old baby in the arms of his grandmother. "Thanks, Mom, you're a dear. Oh, one more thing. Before you feed him, would you please put his little hands together and help him say a simple blessing on his food. We have family prayer with him at night, too. If you and Dad wouldn't mind kneeling by the side of his crib for prayers he's used to it. I think it would help him feel more secure." As her daughter disappeared down the driveway, the grandmother thought about the request. What wise parents they are, she decided. A habit in the making at eighteen months will be a way of life at eighteen years. She couldn't help but contrast her daughter's philosophy with that of the young mother next door. "I'm going to work until my baby is two and a half. Before that time babies don't really understand who you are or what life is all about, anyway." President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., once stated: "... The Lord has made clear in his revelations that, from earliest infancy, children must be taught in the principles of the gospel and in the doctrines of the Church, else 'the sin be upon the heads of the parents.' " Right now, the most significant research in the area of child development concerns the earliest months of life. Many psychologists believe an individual's progress throughout life may depend on what he has learned before the age of four. And they tend to agree that, once past these sensitive early years, a child will never again learn with the same naturalness and ease. Teaching moments with toddlers are ever present if we could just be aware and take advantage of them.

When our daughter Merilee was just two years old, she, along with her brothers and sister, knelt in prayer while my husband administered to me. The next morning I was well. At the dinner table, three days later, Merilee didn't want to eat. I noticed she was feverish. "Mommy," she said thoughtfully, "when you were sick, Daddy prayed for you and you got better." I nodded. Then she added, "Mommy, Daddy pray me." So her daddy administered to her, and the following morning she was up and well. Merilee is now ten years old. She still carries a fervent belief that prayers are answered.

When our seventh child was three or four months old, before he even knew the meaning of words, I began teaching him the most important truth of all— that his Father in heaven loves him, and Jesus loves him too." Words were prayers. Conviction that He is my Father and Jesus loves me, too," were repeated over and over, almost as if we lived and breathed them. Surely they would sink into his little mind one day.

Not exactly, but was a beginning. They teach the gospel to our little ones so eagerly and willingly associate words with loving actions. And if we teach the gospel truths rightly, surely they will understand. When our older children have grown tall, they will depart from us, but we put colored pictures of Jesus loving the child in their rooms: Surely they will not only see them but also understand.

340
The Song Lingers After the lark has ascended like a silver waterfall, ever-berating a melody over ledge and stone— even before the mate's sweet answering call. And I awake to memories: There was another hill Another love "SONG as vibrant and as sweet as this. Every sunlit rill— every gentle whisper of a lover's kiss, Nor would I for your voice—your mile—your touch The delicacy of springtime, the fragrant notes The road green valley below We loved so much, the blue forget-me-nots you picked for me to wear. Oh, take back the distant dreams On't let me know This hurting loneliness that another Spring has brought On't let heart be broken because a lark sings— On't let me stop to pick a small blue forget-me-not. —Alda Larson Brown

341
EDITORIAL/ "Through His Many times when a child achieves scholastically or musically, a laughing remark is made to the mother, "I think you are the one who earned the degree, or the recognition," and, amid the joy that the mother feels, often there do flash through her mind numberless pictures of her sitting beside the child at the piano or spending the evening assisting with lessons. Certainly a mother who heeds the words of Solomon to "train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it," (Prov. 22:6) would include as a part of his command, the day-to-day training of a child to develop his full potential and help him to succeed in the temporal things of life.

A Latter-day Saint child is expected to achieve intellectually for it has been revealed that "The glory of God is intelligence, or, in other words, light and truth," and we are commanded to bring up our children in light and truth. (D&C 93:36, 40.) To do this successfully, it is essential that a mother evaluate the capabilities of each of her children and, while bringing light and truth to them, not expect more than the individual child is capable of achieving. She needs to recognize limitations and accept them.

Not all children are fitted to earn a Ph.D. Not all children are fitted for college training.

Some make outstanding achievements through vocational and business training. The mother's responsibility to assist her child to pursue excellence will need to take into account his aptitudes and desires.

Volume 57, May 1970, Number 5

THE GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford, President
Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor
Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor
Mayola R. Miltenberger, Secretary-Treasurer

342
Will, in all advantages,
Maurine M. Myhre Valen
Ren Whose home at likelihood, be brought into Haycock time.
Aline R. Pettit
John de St. Jeor
Beverly J. Pond

343
The Woman's Sphere of Influence
Ramona W. Cannon
Sarah Isabelle Merrill Tanner, wife of President Nathan Eldon Tanner of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, was presented "The Woman of the Year" Award at Ricks College, Rexburg, Idaho, in March. John L. Clarke, college president, cited Mrs. Tanner for "her outstanding life as a wife and mother, and for her service to the Church and to others." In accepting the honor, Mrs. Tanner spoke of the "ingredients for the rearing of a successful family as prayer, faith, obedience, and love."

Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society, and President of the National Council of Women, was given Brigham Young University's "Woman of the Year" award March 3, 1970, and was cited for her outstanding accomplishments in leadership and her eminence in the work of women throughout the world. She addressed the student body and was presented with a quilt made by members of the campus Relief Societies.

Women, after a sixty-year tradition of "men only," are now to be admitted to membership in Sigma Delta Chi, the United States' national journalism society. Mary Ann Efroymson is a member of "Law Students in Court," a unique group sponsored by five law schools in the Washington, D.C., area. Seven seniors from each university serve as counsel to defend citizens who cannot afford an attorney. Mary Ann is one of the few women among the thirty-five. A graduate of Wellesley College, she now attends George Washington University Law School. Students and lawyers find this experience of much value.

344
Mrs. Dorothy C. McKenzie, of the English Department of California State College, is a specialist in library science. She says most worthwhile books are "ageless" and it is a mistake to do so much classifying of books as for children, for adults, and for all ages in between. An outstanding example is the keen enthusiasm of college students everywhere today for J.R.R. Tolkien's wonder fantasy "The Hobbit," supposedly written for children. Mrs. McKenzie advises mothers to have a book of poetry on a table at all times. She assures us that children will pick it up, read it, and develop a taste for poetry.

Mrs. Virginia Knauer, special assistant to President Nixon on consumer affairs, receives from two to three thousand complaints from consumers every month and is working hard to have the quality of services and products improved in America.

Miss Bene Arnold, from San Francisco, California, ballet mistress for Utah's highly praised Ballet West, teaches classes, "polishes" every ballet presented, and restages many works very creatively. She began ballet lessons as a child to help her to overcome glandular tuberculosis, which frequently kept her in hospitals. Now, fortified by this experience, she teaches classes for disabled children, helping them greatly with her patience and understanding.

Bess Myerson, television personality and Miss America of 1945, is New York City's Commissioner of Consumer Affairs. She is giving up her broadcasting and promises "a vigorous campaign against cheating and defrauding."

345
Cradle Sonnet: Phyllis Davidson

My heart leaped when I saw it first in the window of the furniture store.
It stood out among the other cribs, its cherrywood aglow from the rockers to the carved heart on the headboard,
And I wanted that baby cradle more than I had ever wanted anything before.

Don't misunderstand me. I am as modern as any other suburbanite.
I read all the magazine articles titled "How to Have a Happy Marriage,"
I do not nag my husband, and I know it is smart to wear pale lipstick, and curls on top of my head.
My house is decorated in second-hand contemporary Danish,
And yet I wanted that cradle so much I could feel my fingers tingle.

The salesman said "$97.89." It did not discourage the tingle I felt,
So I arranged my forces for the attack on the family budget.
I dressed my little girls like angels and set my hair, and when Bert came home,
He found us and supper waiting, looking like an advertisement from a magazine.

My husband is a fine man, tall, quiet, and generous. He ate his banquet without comment,
Responded with grunts and nods to my cheery wit, and retired behind his newspaper as soon as possible.
Only at bedtime when I told him about the cradle did he start talking.
"A hundred dollars for a baby bed? You are crazy!" "But, Bert, I tingle for it," I protested.
"Tingle away, then," he snorted. "It will make life very interesting for you.
Besides, we have a perfectly serviceable baby bed, and I just paid fifty dollars for that fender you smashed last month."
I winced. Some things, like burned potatoes and smashed fenders, a husband never forgets.

"Besides," he added, "you could use it only for a few months,
Then what would you do with it? You would have to have a dozen more babies
To get your money out of something like that." "Well, I could always make it into a planter or magazine rack
Or something like that." My voice faded away.
He jammed both his fists into his pockets, and I knew a lecture on finances was coming.

So we discussed money far into the night, and all the time I tingled.
I still tingled the next morning, so I kissed Bert goodbye and sent him off with cheer.
I could see he was relieved and thought I had forgotten the cradle. But as soon as he left,
I sat down to consider. Bert could not object as to how I spent my own money,
So I would have to earn some. I would have to do something on my own.

When Bert came home, he found me lettering posters saying "Washing and Ironing Taken In."
He looked at the posters for a moment, then without comment walked out of the room.
When he returned he was loaded to the eyebrows with shirts, socks, underwear,
And a few miscellaneous items. He dumped them on the signs. "Your first customer," he said,
"Nonpaying, of course." His back shook ever so slightly as he walked from the room.
I suppose he was chuckling, but I was furious with myself for blushing
As I looked at the pile. I put the signs away.

I was about to read Debby and Pam their bedtime story when the idea struck.

"Don't read us a story," Pam pleaded, "tell us one." I often made up stories for them about their favorite toys, and as I told them the story that Cradle Song night, my eyes traveled along the rows of storybooks on _ their shelves. I wondered how much money the authors made. The tingling started again. The children enjoyed the stories I made up for them even more than the stories in their books. Would other children enjoy them? Would a publisher's story editor like them? Next morning, after sending the girls out to play, ignoring the dishes and unmade beds, I rolled a clean piece of paper into my typewriter and sat staring at it. Half an hour later I was still staring at it. A few crossed-out lines of type stared back. A few days later, a pile of papers lay by my _ typewriter. They were marked over until they were almost illegible. I prepared a final copy, and, not daring to read it over one more time, I gathered it together with a paper clip and sent it off to a publisher. Things were back to normal as far as my family was concerned. They no longer ate cold suppers and slept in unmade beds. But I was not normal. My heart beat double-time every time I saw the mailman coming, and I tore at every envelope that came from New York City, which usually turned out to be an advertisement or discount catalogue. "It was just a way to kill time," I explained to Bert, trying to sound casual, and threatened to leave him if he ever told a soul. He had been awed by the whole thing. Often I would catch him looking at me as if he could not believe it was his wife who was writing a book. He read the 347 manuscript and proclaimed it head. I laid it on the desk, not explain to him how I felt. "It is most peautiful baby boy in the not just the cradle," | said, and world lies tucked under 4 small it was true. J had not throught patchwork quilt in the heart of the cradle in weeks. The cherrywood cradle, and that "J want to do something special tingle mingles with pride 9 special, something creative. 1 when I look at them. Was that really it? His boy than if 1 had written "Do you suppose the bookthe Great American Novel. He stores would give it a special must have known how I felt, and display?" Bert asked. When I came home from the "Oh, Bert, it is just a little hospital and saw the cradle in child's book. Perhaps qa write-up the nursery, | knew the depth of in the newspaper though," 1 mut his understanding. I still get the mured. Jittle tingle every time I give the Then the envelope came; with cradle a rock, but somehow it the expensive printing and letterisn't quite the same. THY SPIRIT EVERYWHERE jam blessed to see thy hand— In fragile leaf and bud and tree. New miracles, with reverence, Each greening spring | see— Wild bird's flight across the river, Sunsets fired on high when day is done. Thrice thanks for blessings manifold, Our children and their children dear— On Sinai, to feel, to know my purpose here. —Wilma Morley Despain Day's End—Bay Of Islands Olive B. Taylor Opua, Bay of Islands, New Zealand @ Another beautiful day was drawing to a close as the last rays of sunlight tinted the "long white cloud" a delicate apricot color. It was a glorious sunset, and really appreciated since the past two weeks had been rain and more rain, about twenty-nine inches in one week. We were bidding our guests goodbye after a pleasant visit. Three of the missionary couples in the Northland had spent their diversion day with Elder Taylor and me here in the Bay of Islands. Now at the end of a perfect day, we watched the glory of nature's never ending changes. The water in the Bay of Islands sparkled like diamonds, while shadows changed the color of the soft green hills. Amid the stillness, there was a serene, calm feeling, which is so difficult to find in many parts of the world. It was a strengthening power for all of us. Forgetting any problems we might have amid the stillness, we counted our blessings! An apostle of the Lord had set us apart to come down to New Zealand to teach the gospel of Jesus Christ. In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 133, verses 37-9 we read: And this gospel shall be preached unto every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people. And the servants of God shall go forth, saying with a loud voice: Fear God and give glory to him, for the hour of his judgment is come; And worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters Someone said New Zealand looks like the Garden of Eden. We have enjoyed the beauty all around us. The citrus groves are a lovely sight, and the hills are dotted with white sheep and black cows. The cabbage trees, Pohutukawa, and fern trees are most unusual. Between towns in the Northland it looks like one park after another. We never tire at looking down at Mormon Valley (Maromaku) from the highway. We are most grateful for the many friends we have met in this far-off land. They are generous, loving, and kind, some of God's choicest children. Surely as we return to our home in Utah, we shall never forget this beautiful country. We have been blessed and feel it has been a privilege to come to bring the gospel of peace to these people, whom we have learned to love. And so at the end of each day we count our blessings and stamp mental pictures in our minds of this beautiful country of New Zealand. 349 Whatever Will Become of Rory! Mary Ek Knowles @ It was after five when Elsie Holbrook saw Mr. Vanderhook's station wagon drive up in front of the house. Mr. Vanderhook was bringing Rory and the other neighborhood boys home from his son Paul's birthday party which had been celebrated at Pleasure Park thirty-five miles away. She gave a relieved sigh and called, '""Rory's home, Susan." Her nine-year-old daughter came to stand with her by the window. "Now, Mom," Susan said seriously, "make Rory practice 'Puppets' March' with me and no silliness!" Elsie looked tenderly at Susan. This was her first piano recital and she and Rory were to play a duet. Already Susan was bathed and in her robe, her blonde head heavy with giant-sized rollers. 350 "No silliness, darling,' she promised, remembering yesterday's practice when twelve-year-old Rory had tried to play with a tray balanced on his head. She watched the boys spill out of every door of the car and scatter in as many directions, but there was no Rory, no mop of red hair. She saw Mr. Vanderhook get out of the station wagon and walk towards the house and her heart snagged. Rory was hurt! Rory was in the hospital!

Then she saw the angry set of Mr. Vanderhook's jaw and, as she opened the door, braced herself for the complaints she knew were coming. "Rory wouldn't come home with me. He said he would come home on the next bus. I tried to bring him anyhow, but he went in The Barrel." She saw the purple bump on his forehead. 

"Ma'am, I was Marine Drill Sergeant in World War II and scoutmaster in our ward for ten years, but this kid of yours. He's..." he shrugged, unable to put Rory into words. "I couldn't wait any longer. I have a plane to catch for Chicago at seven."

"But Mr. Vanderhook was out of earshot." "Mama!" Susan wailed. "He won't be home in time and so we can't practice and I'll make mistakes!"

"T'll telephone Daddy. He has the car and he can drive to Pleasure Park and bring Rory home." She was already dialing the plant. Why, oh why! she asked herself for the millionth time, did Rory always do the wrong thing? The sixteen-year-old twins, Wilson and Wendell, had never given them a moment's worry. They were both at Lake Sylvia for the summer now as camp counselors. And Susan was such an amiable little girl. But Rory! Whatever would become of Rory!

"What is it, honey?" Duane's voice was impatient. She told him.

"Darling, could you please drive to." "VXX is broken down!" 

"Oh no!" VXX was the monster machine at the plant. When it broke down everything came to a standstill until it was fixed. Duane was the head mechanic.

"What goes on in that kid's head!" Duane exploded. "T'll get home as soon as possible, honey." He hung up.

Maybe Amy Fields could drive her to Pleasure Park. For the next fifteen minutes she frantically telephoned her friends. No one was home at Amy's. Brenda Way's four-year-old had strep throat, Marsha Lindsay's washer had just gone haywire and Marsha was mopping up three inches of water. Carla Sima was in a real stew. Wayne had just telephoned that he was bringing four—mind you, four—men from the New York office home for dinner!

Elsie telephoned the bus station. There was a bus every hour. If Rory came home on the six o'clock bus there would still be time to practice. But he would have to walk from the bus station. She had just hung up and collapsed in the big chair when the telephone rang. It was old Mrs. Rose asking in her quavery voice, "Will Rory be by soon to cut my lawn?"

"But he cut it yesterday— didn't he?" 

"No. He was too late getting here. I was already watering. He promised to come early today." "T'll have him call you the minute he gets home." She hung up, remembering that Rory had left in plenty of time yesterday to cut Mrs. Rose's lawn. Where had he gone? To Swede's Junk Yard, she decided.

At seven Rory had still not come. She had telephoned the plant three times to learn that VXX was still not fixed, had tried four times to get Amy. Finally, she telephoned Mrs. Davidson, the piano teacher.

"You say Rory won't be here?" Elsie could have sworn that Mrs. Davidson was relieved. "Well, Susan can play 'Butterfly Waltz.' She does it beautifully." 351 May 1970

Elsie listened to Susan practice, thinking angrily, if Rory is such a trial for Mrs. Davidson, I'll stop his lessons! Then all at once she felt tired. Imagine trying to teach Rory anything.

At 7:30 Duane telephoned. "Honey, this monster is still broken and I can't leave. Please explain to Susan. Has Rory?"

"No, he isn't home." All at once she began to cry. "I just know something terrible has happened to him. Maybe some maniac."

"Heaven help the maniac who tangles with Rory," he said wryly, then added gently, "stop crying, honey. He's probably having a ball and completely lost track of time. Okay now?"

"Okay." She blinked back the tears. "I'll see you later." Ste put Duane's and Rory's dinner in the warming oven and rode with May Johns and her two little girls to the recital.

Susan performed beautifully without one wrong note, but Elsie sat stiffly on her chair, her head pounding. Refreshments followed the recital, but she couldn't eat. She kept telephoning home, praying that Rory would answer. But he didn't.

May let her and Susan out of the car just as the lights went on in the house. Rory was home. Rory was safe! But it wasn't Rory. Duane met them at the door. He lifted Susan in his arms and said, "Hi, Princess. Sorry I missed the recital."

"She played a solo, Daddy, and did a beautiful job!" Elsie praised.

"A solo?" Duane's eyes met hers.

" 'A solo...'" Elsie said. "T'll play it for you now, Daddy." And Susan got down from his arms, and in a few seconds the strains of "Butterfly Waltz" floated through the house.

"Well, what do you say we take a nice drive to Pleasure Park and get Rory?" Duane was trying to give the problem a light touch. Just then the phone rang, and Elsie grabbed the receiver.

"Mom?" It was Rory and he sounded forlorn, abandoned.

"Rory, where are you? Are you all right? What happened?"

"T bought a bus ticket and then I lost it," the words came tumbling out. "And I didn't have any more money so when the last bus came I told the busman I would sweep out the bus if he would give me a ride home, and so he did and the man here at the bus station is letting me use the phone, and Mom, could I have about a million hot dogs with mustard and ketchup? I—I haven't had anything to eat since noon. Gosh, everybody in the world came walking by, eating juicy hamburgers and hot dogs. Can I, Mom? Hot dogs with dill pickles?"

She was relieved he was alive, well, hungry. She almost said "Yes, my darling. I'll cook you anything you want, my poor hungry little boy." Then the anxiety of the day came back to her.

"Rory, you should have come home with Mr. Vanderhook! Mrs. Rose called and."

"Gee, Mom, I'm sorry. I was going to." "Why didn't you cut her lawn yesterday?" 

"Well, you see, it was like this. I was over to Swede's and he has a sore back and he had a load of steel to move and he said he'd pay me extra and."

"And so you helped him and forgot Mrs. Rose! I'm coming down to get you, Rory. Don't move from there! Not one inch!"

"Yes, Ma'am." She slammed down the receiver and told Duane what had happened. Duane groaned.

"What's going to become of that kid!" "He isn't mean, Duane." She had to defend Rory. "Nothing he does is sadistic or."

"But, honey, he has no talent for anything but getting into hot water. I can see Rory grown and losing job after job. What company would even hire him?

If I could just find one ray of hope, just one small ray—I'll go and get him," he said tiredly. "I'll get him," Elsie kissed him. "Susan is almost through playing and she will want your permission to leave." "Whatever Will Become of Rory!" Praise. We'll have a serious talk with Rory. Everything is going to be all right, darling." She said it confidently, but as she drove to the bus station she remembered what a nightmare the day had been with the complaints and the frantic telephoning to get a ride to Pleasure Park. All because Rory had absolutely no sense of responsibility! Maybe they hadn't been strict enough with him, but from now on he was going to toe the mark! When she reached the bus station she saw Rory standing out in front. His white T-shirt was streaked with what she knew must be black grease. Rory saw her and grinned and his freckled face shone. She remembered Mr. Vanderhook's anger, Mrs. Rose's complaint, and Susan playing a solo instead of a duet, and suddenly she was so angry at her son she was shaking. So help her, she would grab him and shake him hard! "Rory Atkinson Holbrook, you are in hot water over your head!" she exploded and grabbed him. "Present for you, Mom!" he held up a silver plastic loving cup. She was like a boxer thrown off balance, confused, floundering. There was nothing she could do but take the loving cup. "I won it," she heard Rory say. "I helped the man in the shooting gallery and he gave me a free try. I hit every rabbit, pow! Pow!" 353 May 1970 She read the inscription on the loving cup: "To the World's Most Beautiful Woman," and anger drained out of her and she felt loved, very special and misty eyed. "I mean that on the cup, Mom," he said sincerely. "I had to win it for you." "Thank you, son," her voice choked off. "I'm sorry I caused so much trouble. I'll apologize to Mrs. Rose and I'll clip her hedge and won't charge her extra." And she won't be angry anymore, Elsie knew. In that moment she knew there was a place in the economic world for Rory. Beneath the mischief was a vivid imagination, even a kindness, certainly an understanding of people. She could see Rory as a public relations man, soothing rumpled feelings, saving a hopeless situation at the last desperate moment. "Mom," she saw his lips tremble, "I don't mean to get into trouble. Honest I try to be good and then, powie! I'm in hot water!" All at once she felt humbled, challenged. If only Duane and I can have the wisdom to harness that boundless energy, that marvelous imagination, and guide it into the right channels, she thought prayerfully, Rory can make history—good history. "I understand, son," she said. "Let's go home and have a talk with your father." She could hardly wait to tell Duane that there was every hope for their young son.

I sit here in the English sun and dream of far-off lands
Of flowering vales, and waving palms,
Smiles and welcoming hands.
Of coral strands, and blue, blue seas,
Shining and laughing eyes,
Full of the joy of living
Under sunny, tropic skies.

The tales they tell of long ago,
With gallantry the theme,
Around their ancient temples,
Where saints have ruled supreme.
Oh, must our hearts be torn away
To far-off scented air?
Have we not lakes and dreaming hills
And flowering vales as fair?

In England's tender, verdant land
The flowers bloom as free,
And sweeter far their perfume
Than on tropic island's tree.

Our sea-girt isles do sing a song
That modest pride imposes.
Oh, I will stay for I belong
To England's red and yellow roses!

As Mother Sees Beauty
Marcella H. Morley

One of my greatest concerns is that I will fail to teach my children the beauty of the everyday, which I so keenly sense. The rosy glow on a baby's face, the tiny curled up fist against soft golden wisps of hair as he lies sleeping—peacefully. The baby smile that springs so readily to his lips. The glorious autumn beauty—beyond description. Sunrise so pink and golden upon the mountaintops. Wonderful daylight hours filled with children's happy voices. Soft breezes, work, friends, yes, a problem or two to face. But above all, a swelling gratitude to a kind, wise, ever-loving Father for Giving us all this marvelous opportunity. May he help me to find a way to give this gift to my children.

JNA LISTEN FOR LAUGHTER

The city is man's world, but country life is of God.
(William Cowper)

The road curls westward through lyric hills
(The city's gray walls are behind me now.)
A gypsy wind catches a splinter of song
And toys with it under a willow bough.
There is a sudden turn in the ribbon of road,
And daisies crowd toward the lake's blue edge.
I have come back to my childhood home,
To the barley field, to the wild rose hedge.
I listen for laughter to lace the air
As an aspen does when the sun is high—
Are village boys frolicking on the green?
Are girls hanging dreams on the fence to dry?
Then loneliness gathers like a fog—
House windows are boarded, no longer fair!
The people have followed some silvered dreams;
Now silence is caught in the village square.
Oh, the gray-wolf hours at the close of day,
And the tiger winds tearing the fences down!
And the rain horses slashing the garden clay!
These beasts of destruction have claimed my town!

The road toils back through the shrouded hills,
And a realist wind piques my sense of loss;
The rhinestone lights on the peopled side
Are beckoning me toward their tinseled gloss.
The winds of change whittled my childhood home
To a splinter that tortures my memory;
Now they're carving a city to wall me in,
And they're cutting a hole in the heart of me.

—Maxine R. Jennings

355 COLLECTOR'S ITEM
Betty G. Spencer

@ A casual observer might think that we are operating an animal shelter, but it just isn't so! It's simply that I have three children with a natural affinity for animals. I've answered to "Mama" for over eighteen years now, and this affection for gathering a collection began as soon as the eldest child could clutch at a toy in his playpen. Over the years we have made a home for shaggy dogs, hunting dogs, skinny dogs, and lost dogs; assorted sizes, colors, and varieties of cats; cannibalistic guppies; plain and fancy goldfish; snails; bowl turtles; a bilingual parakeet; and a covey of pigeons. These animals were collected out of pure love, however, and were not a bit of bother to anyone—except me! The real trouble began when my two youngest boys decided they would make a lot of money and went into the rabbit business. This venture began a year and four months ago. Profit: zero. Expense: (to father) a goodly sum. These are particular rabbits, you see.

They live in especially constructed apartments made from wooden rose boxes. They can't eat ordinary greens, either. They need "those pellets they sell up at the co-op, because they are a balanced diet, with vitamins and minerals and all that stuff!" The rabbit population at our place is about twelve, give or take a few bunnies. Last week I decided that something had to go. Rabbits! After a scouting trip about the neighborhood, the boys reported that there was, indeed, a market for rabbits. It was just that they would have to finance the potential buyers they had lined up. "Cash on the barrelhead, boys," I advised. "But, Mother," they chorused, "nobody has any money. Would it be all right if we traded the rabbits for something else? Something useful," they added hastily. "Well," I pondered, "I guess that would be all right—" "Gee, thanks, Mom," they exclaimed, pounding me on the back enthusiastically. The kitchen door banged shut as I slowly straightened up and gingerly rubbed my back. I watched with a nervous foreboding as the boys pulled their rabbit-laden wagons out of the yard.

In short order I vetoed a rooster, another dog, and a chameleon. Finally, the boys made an acceptable deal—three rabbits for one western sand turtle. This trade suited me just fine. Turtles don't bark, need a license, or eat much. The boys spent the rest of the afternoon admiring the latest addition to what I hoped was a dwindling pet collection.

I should have recognized that the successful trade would lead to more complicated bartering. This morning four assorted sized boys lay sprawled on their stomachs under the big maple tree. (I have been advised that this is the appropriate posture for viewing turtles.) As I made my bed, an alarming conversation drifted through the open window.

"He's a real nifty turtle. You made a good trade, Brent." "Yeh," replied my nine-year-old. "He's a beaut. I really got a good deal."

"How many rabbits do you have left?" "Nine." "Good. Let's go down to Danny's place and see how many he'll take to trade." "Okay," agreed my sprout, as he stood up and put the turtle in a box.

"I hope nine is enough. That sure is a keen looking goat!"

357 Vacations Are for Mothers, Kathryn E. Franks

Too—n addition to the extra summer activities, Jill Martin had been busy for several weeks preparing for the family's two weeks' vacation at the lake. In a heat wave, she had combed the bargain counters searching for bathing suits to fit eight-year-old Karen, five-year-old David, and three-year-old Mike. Then, after she thought she had finished her shopping, she had bought a camping cot, a fishing reel, and a pair of swimming fins with the money she had saved all summer to paint the kitchen and service porch walls.

Now, on Friday afternoon, with only four hours left to finish the cleaning and packing, Jill stopped long enough at the kitchen sink to splash tap water over her face and hands. She straightened her tired back, and reckoned with the wave of resentment that swept over her. Are vacations really necessary? Are they worth the extra work, the added expense?

On the hottest day of the year, hot and weary, in the midst of the packing, she asked herself that question. The children, highly excited, were loud and unsettled. They ran in and out, disturbing Jill's schedule.

Noticing the time, she turned to the service porch and unrolled the last batch of ironing. She had finished her own blouse when Martha, her next-door neighbor, walked through the back door, carrying a large plate of homemade cookies.

"Martha," Jill greeted her friend eagerly. "Who but you would bake cookies for me on this hot day!"

"When I saw the washing you had to sort; the groceries you carried in to be packed, and your family to feed, I honestly didn't think you'd have time to bake the cookies you like to take with you."

"I wouldn't have," Jill answered. "I'll thank you for the rest of the family because you know how much they like your chocolate chip cookies."

Seconds after Martha wished Jill a happy vacation and walked out the door, the children, like bees drawn to nectar, swarmed through the back door and circled the cookie platter.

"Cookies," they squealed. "We are starved!"

"Afraid not," Jill warned them sharply. "These are to take to the lake.... Get ripe peaches from the blue bowl."

Fifteen minutes later she heard Mike in his room and rushed in to find him pulling everything from his red and blue circus-decorated toy chest. She grabbed his arm just as the bottom contents flew out on the floor.

"Where's my sailboat?" he asked his mother. "Please pick up these toys and go outside. We'll find it later."

Jill disliked her cross voice, but there were so many things yet to do, and so little time left. When Dave and Karen came inside, begging for their swimming trunks to go swimming in the neighbor's pool, Jill begrudgingly pulled out the packed swimming suits.

Now, she would have to pack two wet suits later. I should have said no, she thought, however, at the moment it was easier to give in for she didn't have the time nor the strength to argue.

At five o'clock Jim walked in from work, smiling, looking happy and relaxed at the prospect of a good, cool two weeks at the lake with his family. Jill tried desperately to match his mood. Then, with Jim helping, they fixed a quick supper. By eight o'clock everything was packed, loaded into the car, and Jim was finally locking the house.

At dusk, before they left town, Jim pulled into a service station. Jill heard the attendant remark, "Looks as if you're off on vacation."

Sitting there with a slightly cooler breeze coming through the open car window, Jill listened to Jim's familiar voice.

Kennedy Castle Grounds of Lord Stair near Stranraer, Scotland.

"We packed only necessary things," Jim said, "but it does look like a carload." His words, although they were as light as the breeze, struck her then with a sudden impact. "We packed only the necessary things," Jim just said. Then why?

Jill asked silently, am I taking my budget worries, my weary back, and a bad mood along with me? It is natural, she decided, to resent the extra work, but didn't Jim and the children deserve a good vacation? And didn't she as a devoted wife and mother owe it to them?

As the car again pulled out onto the highway and Jim concentrated on his driving, Jill leaned back in the seat and pondered.

Upper Killarney Lake, County Kerry.

Sharing the work would have given the children an important responsibility. Quickly, without Jim noticing what she was doing, Jill took a sheet of paper and pencil from her purse. She had a few things to do before she reached the cabin. Carefully, with concentration, she wrote her list. The first thing, she decided, when they reached the cabin would be for the children to carry their belongings to their respective rooms. Once inside, she would show them their clothes drawers, and ask them to put away their own clothes. Next, with the children helping, she would supervise the bedmaking. Afterwards, she would save a lot of confusion and argument by assigning the personal towel racks and towels. Those things accomplished, they would all help put away the food in the kitchen. This should give the entire family time to stroll down to the lake before retiring. Otherwise, the children, in their eagerness, would rush out the door and scamper down the path to the lake without taking any responsibility whatsoever. By the third morning Jill was happily surprised at how well her plans had developed. Away from home, in a different environment, the children had actually welcomed their share of the chores. While Jill cooked breakfast, Karen poured the milk and willingly set the table. Dave carried out the trash. Mike picked up the papers, and, in his three-year-old way, tidied the newspapers, and, with the broom top heavy above his shoulders, he swept the front and back steps. After breakfast, Jill washed the dishes while the children and Jim got into swimming suits and collected the items that needed to be carried to the lake. "With all this help," Jill mused, looking at the cleared table, "I'm going to have time on my hands!" She did. That morning, long before noon, she had climbed the knoll overlooking the cove and sat down in the deep grass. A soft breeze hummed in the fir trees above her and tossed her hair lightly across her forehead. She enjoyed the solitude until she saw the children and Jim wade out of the water below her. Jill rose then and hurried back down the curved path to join them. After lunch the five of them searched the beach for shells, and tramped among the dried pine needles on the cabin side and gathered pine cones. Quietly, they watched the chipmunks, and, tempting them with food, tried to tame them. On late afternoon of the fourth day the family had fun beside the lake, they noticed the sun sinking behind the spruce trees on the opposite side of the shore before they had once thought about supper. "It is the most beautiful time of the day," Jill remarked. "'Let's not go back to the cabin." She watched the lazy lapping of the small waves upon the sand. They seemed to grow more gentle at sundown, almost as if they were repeating some old, remembered Indian lullaby. "Send the children to the cabin for hot dogs," Jim suggested, "and I'll build a campfire." With instructions from Jill as to where to find the food, Karen, with the boys following, darted up the path toward the cabin. Soon they were zigzagging back down the trail, their arms loaded with hot dogs, buns, and marshmallows. After they had eaten, the three youngsters played games down by the cove. Stars appeared overhead. "This is better than home, isn't it?" Jim asked, looking boyishly across the campfire then up at the fast-appearing stars. "Home?" Jill exclaimed teasingly. "Where's that?" Jim smiled. "Right now," he answered quietly, "it's under the stars." Indeed it was, and when she left, Jill decided drowsily, she intended to take enough of Still Lake home with her to last all year. She had learned a little late, but she had discovered that it took organization on her part, which included giving the children their share of responsibility in the family's vacation plan. In doing so, she had found what vacations are all about—that they are for mothers, too. Whatever Happened | ' | To Singing? 4 Olga Milius One day last summer I was entertaining myself with a little light opera while dusting, and when I reached the door there stood two young salesmen grinning like Cheshire cats as they listened to my warbling. Between their grins and my red face, we parted the best of friends (though I didn't buy anything), but after they left I wondered—whatever happened to singing? When I was young—very young—there was music everywhere. Mother and Father sang around the house, children, and even groups of teenagers sang as they walked down the streets. The men sang or whistled as they rode their bikes to work at the shipyard. I remember how my father and my aunt would get out their mandolins and sing and play by the hour. All the old-fashioned favorites "Just a Song at Twilight," "Juanita," and a sentimental ballad called "The Night Shades Are Falling" that always made me cry. Almost every evening the mandolins came out, and family and friends gathered to sing and chat. Sunday evening after meeting everyone gathered at grandma's, and with an aunt or a cousin at the old pedal organ, we would harmonize happily on hymns and favorite classics. These days singing is an organized sport like baseball or tennis, with carefully arranged choruses, or duets or solos. Spontaneous, unplanned singing has all but disappeared. But I have found that singing is still contagious around small children. And even teenagers, when their minds are on other things (like decorating for an MIA party or riding around between road shows), will join in a catchy song. So, why do we adults look so astonished if we catch someone singing as she hangs out the wash or bakes a pie? I'm for starting a movement to put more music—homemade music—into the home. Now, if I could just find Father's mandolin. The Happy Secret Ruth C. Lerman When I gave the neighbor girl the doll clothes I had made for her favorite "child," she said to me primly: "Thank you, this is just what I have wanted for years and years and years." She had used the right number of years in repetition, for by now she was all of three years old. But she was wise beyond many times her years in the proper way to thank me for the gift. How wonderful it is to be able to give something to somebody, and to learn they have wanted it for "years and years," and are willing to confess this fact to the giver. My little friend and her doll shared with me the happy secret of giving and receiving. 363 My Third-Hand Lillian Y. Bradshaw As well organized as we mothers and grandmothers are most of the time, there always come those times when something comes up in a home that just has to be done. Then you wish you had a third hand to take care of the little ones.

Any idea which keeps me relaxed and my children happily busy while I, too, am busy, I call my third hand. Many are the ways to keep young ones happy, such as a bucket with water and a small paint brush while others are painting, or stringing cereal into a necklace while mother is sewing, but here is my choicest third-hand idea. An old idea with but a new twist—but what a difference it makes! It all begins with step #1.

1. Turn a cookie sheet over—bottom up—and then lightly grease and flour the bottom of the pan.
2. Roll out some cookie dough to the desired thickness.
3. While you go about your own baking or housework, let your young ones cut all the shapes they desire, showing them first how far apart all the edges must be. Don't worry if they have to roll it smooth time and time again. This is half the fun. Let them do it the way they want. A separate pan for each child is ideal. It is also a marvelous way to entertain young ones at a birthday party.

4. Now comes the other half of the fun as they peel out the extra dough between the cookies. It builds their skill in selecting the right piece to pull, and, best of all, along with the fun and creative elements of working with clay, it has the added enthusiasm of something good to eat later. The extra dough which has been removed from around the cutouts can be pressed into a lump and then rolled out on another pan to make more cookies.

Checking back often to see how they are getting along gives a wonderful feeling of companionship and not only are their efforts praised now, but when the cookies are served at dinner the praise is double. Without the fifth step, cutout cookies have always caused mixed emotions in me. I know there is no cookie which seems to satisfy both the hunger and the imagination of a child, be they young or old, boy or girl, as does a cutout cookie. Recipes and ideas for the holidays have always intrigued me into trying them, but, oh, the frustration when flour is strewn from one end of the kitchen to the other as the cutouts are transferred from cutting board to cookie sheet, or else became stuck, and the gingerbread man loses a leg or a star loses one point. So often it ends in tears as the children try to help.

But with the pan upside down it is step five that truly makes this my third hand.

5. No need to transfer the cutout cookies—they are all ready to bake—just place the pan in the oven and bake the way it is. The area is clean and neat, and never again will the chicken lose its head, and the children are busy, creative, and happy.

It was one of those hectic mornings every mother encounters from time to time in her career as a housewife—when you wish Alexander Graham Bell had minded his own business and never invented the telephone, when the washing and ironing keep piling higher and higher, when one of your best dishes is accidentally broken, when every little problem seems insurmountable—and, in short, when "the faster you go, the behinder you get"—and that's when Bell's little invention rang for the umpteenth time!

I stumbled over our little blonde three-year-old on the way to the phone, mentally noting that the toy which had been fascinating her for the past ten minutes was Davey's new model oar.

"If I were a man," I muttered, as I faked a cheery "Good morning!" Sister Thomas' voice sounded as if she had all her work done and was relaxing with a good book. (How can some people be so downright efficient!)

"Just thought I'd call," she said cheerfully, "to see if you would like me to take your cake over to the school along with mine. I remember you said you had a dental appointment today."

Cake?... Oh, horrors! This couldn't possibly be the day of the Bake Sale! Surely it was next Friday!

With an agonizing look at the kitchen clock, I thanked her for her thoughtfulness and said I'd have plenty of time to deliver it on the way to the dentist. (Why, oh, why, did this have to happen today?)

I glanced at little Diane as I hung up the phone. (What a model mother you have today, little one, I thought. Ten o'clock and you're still in pajamas!)

And then I decided to pop the cake in the oven before she wanted to help. I started automatically reaching for the ingredients when I suddenly remembered Steve saying that morning, "We're out of sugar, Mom—used the last on my cereal."

(I know very well sugar was on my grocery list last week—how could I possibly have forgotten it?)

I knew there wasn't any use looking for sugar in the basement—not with my husband's notice firmly nailed in big black letters on the door: "DO NOT REMOVE ANY FOOD STORAGE ITEM UNLESS YOU REPLACE IT WITH NEW."

So, forgetting my special caramel nut cake promised for the sale, and blessing the kind soul who invented quickie cake mixes, I climbed on the kitchen stool to find a box on the top shelf. Frantic searching among the rice, macaroni, and cereal boxes, however, revealed everything but a cake mix!

What frustrating luck! Now there was no choice except a trip to the grocery store, but it would only take a minute in... Oh, no!

And the last straw settled on my distraught nerves. This was Friday—not just Friday, the Bake Sale day; not even Friday, the 13th. At our house it was Friday, No Car Till Noon day—and it would take at least thirty minutes on foot, especially with a little girl tagging along!

I looked at her, still contentedly running the car up and down over imaginary hills and bridges. I could make it a lot faster without her, I thought. Surely she'd be all right.

And then, across my mind flashed headlines, "Child Burns to Death While Mother Goes to Grocery Store," and I frantically began to round up her clothes.

She was delighted, of course, but five hectic minutes elapsed before we found the shoe she had tucked away in the bathroom towel drawer; another exasperating five minutes were wasted changing three dresses so she could 'wear her pretty blue dress to the store,' and another impatient few minutes trying to find the penny Grandpa gave her yesterday, but finally we were on the way—one frazzle-nerved mother and a chattering three-year-old.

With my mind on the clock ticking off wasted time, I didn't realize I was walking too fast for her little legs, but she skipped along, apparently unconcerned, as long as I absently answered her ever-flowing questions. And then...

Abruptly, she stopped!

Now, what's the matter?" I cried impatiently, jerking her little hand. Completely unaware of my irritation, she looked up at me with her appealing blue eyes and said softly, "I can hear the birds sing, Mommy. Can't you hear the birds sing?" I stopped short. Slowly a big lump welled up in my throat as I looked down at her upturned face, full of all the sweetness and innocence of a precious child of God. And then I raised my head and listened. Why, the birds were singing... Proclaiming the miracle of spring, the rebirth of a sleepy earth awakening from a long winter sleep, and God's goodness to the world. Yes, the birds were singing in the bright blue sunshine of a beautiful spring day, and I hadn't even noticed! She pulled at my arm, waiting for an answer. "Yes," I said, smiling down at her, "I can hear the birds sing, too. They're telling us to be happy because spring is here." I quickened my pace a little to make up for lost time. She was thoughtful for a few steps, searching intensely for brown feathered wings on nearby branches, and then she stopped again. "Who tells the birds about spring?" she asked seriously. "Who tells the birds about spring?" I echoed, with a strange confused feeling deep inside and little pinpricks of conscience reminding me of lost teaching moments. Then, in that revealing instant of time when genuine values come into focus, I realized what was important, really important, and it wasn't a frantic race with time. There would be other dental appointments, other cakesales, and many other times to clean house, but childhood never returns. In that sobering moment, I suddenly realized that I wanted her memories of childhood to include this awareness of a beautiful spring morn, shared by a mother who understood. I stooped to hug her. "The little birds watch for the first signs of spring," I said. "Shall we try to find some of them?" She bubbled with excitement like an effervescent fountain as we walked hand in hand the rest of the way to the store. We talked about the new leaves on the trees. We discovered tiny green buds in a tulip bed by the street. We giggled at the brown bugs crawling along the ground. We smelled the fragrant fruit blossoms adrift on the spring air. We felt the warm south breezes. We watched fluffy white clouds form a Teddy-bear picture before it dispersed into wispy trails across the blue sky. And we stopped ever so often to hear the happy songs of the birds, reminding me of Longfellow's description: "songs in many keys, sweeter than instrument of man e'er caught." Somehow I kept the dental appointment. Somehow the cake was delivered (just a little late). Somehow my house was eventually restored to order. But, most important of all, somehow I had taken time for a few precious moments, which would never come in the same way again, to share a rich experience with my little daughter. Many years have passed since that spring morning, and she is now a lovely blossoming flower herself. But each year as nature repeats the splendor of God's gifts to the world, I can hear the echo of her words, "I can hear the birds sing, Mommy. Can't you hear the birds sing?" UNEXPECTED HAPPINESS One day a yellow crocus Will show its shining cup. Or a hyacinth will peek Through frozen ground. One day a warming breeze Will sway the budding willow, Or a robin newly come will sing. Then an unexpected happiness, Will tell me, it is spring. —Annie Atkin Tanner 368 The Nightingale Delores Arden The night was unilluminated and everything was still. I could smell the sweet perfume of the gentle summer rain through my open window. The darkness was swept away by the sudden trill of a nightingale in the garden grove. The liquid passage of music poured from its throat without interruption. I gasped a deep breath for him, but the songster kept the golden aria flowing in a seemingly endless melody. The music filled my dreary heart until fountains of joy welled within me and my feelings became as inexpressible as the beautiful sounds. The night was no longer shapeless and without meaning. The strain filled the air with light and hope, and, even when it passed, I continued to sense it. All of this ecstasy came from a tiny dull-plumed cock whose joy was centered in an ordinary loose-leafed nest close to the earth. Yet, such a burst of song, so exquisite and so long—I wondered. Could it be that this song was meant for me? Like the nightingale, I am very plain and not much to look at. But could I sing a sweet song and bring a light to someone's dark and weary night? REMEMBRANCE IN THE RAIN It rained in San Pedro— First day in a long time. From way up on the hill | saw Low gray clouds Stretching all across the valley; Bright lights on cars Hurrying home in the evening; Big white ocean liners Gliding into the channel. And my boy Slightly bouncing as he walked, Holding his black and yellow umbrella Straight up! And broadly grinning. And right behind, two cats Softly bouncing as they walked With fluffy black and gray tails Straight up!. And grinning too, | think —Helen Clegg Broadbent 369 J. Udyth S. Peterson Keeping a clean, orderly house is a natural thing for some women. Others, myself included, seem to resist their mothers' teachings and do not develop good habits. My group is usually discouraged by articles on homemaking—we are made only too aware of our shortcomings, and we feel all the more inadequate because others accomplish so easily what we ourselves cannot seem to begin. We are led to believe that nearly all homemakers are efficient, conscientious bundles of energy, tireless, and capable of coping with every problem. We read glowing reports of how Grandma managed to keep everything washed and pressed, swept and dusted, polished and preserved, with none of our modern conveniences, and thirteen children. And we sink deeper into despair! I've never been neat with my clothes, drawers, etc., and after I married, | seemed to get worse instead of better. When I was expecting our second baby, I was also teaching kindergarten part time, and I did very little housework. When I came home at noon, the bed was unmade, dishes from dinner the night before and from breakfast were in the sink, the house was disorderly, and as it took me most of the afternoon to get the dishes done (I moved very slowly!) I had not touched an iron or a mop in ages. The worse the house looked, the worse I felt, and vice versa. Finally, at New Year's resolution time, I knew something had to be done. To reinforce my good intentions, I bought an excellent book on homemaking. When I saw that I should be doing more in one day than I did in an entire week, I felt discouraged. I could never do it.

It was like trying to learn to read without being able to recognize the alphabet! I had so far to go that I couldn't even get started. If you have lived for years without good habits, you will know what I mean. Then I had an idea. Perhaps I could never do everything the way I should, but I could do just one thing right. I made a list of my housekeeping problems in the order of their importance, starting with the ones that bothered me most, such as: 1. Dishes left overnight; 370 One Step at a Time aa. Ironing left bathroom too long; SO on. T Month had Passed, I fo k with Very little eff Self, for und [| Was doin ort. It Was tj One month I'm goj & this one me for the I told my- €s right after On as I get UP each these two things | can the Counter tops cle MY bed was became more Interested 4N and the Itchen floor Swept. When Made, the clothes 6 the ¢ alr looked Out of lace, and I hung them UP. But the were only by-pr ducts of my Tesolutions Was Concerne With y IMMediate tasks ly, and the good feeling ) aC¢complishmen t. ©2 month J a ded a chor orking on €ach one full Month fave me "nough time to estab] ha new routine, ¢ 8aln co fidence I stil] have long Way to £0, but | am ready for that book 6 °memaking no And I haven t been confronted; the Orning with UNWashed dishes Or a disord ly hous for Several year «| neve never be the worlq' MOSt efficje t homema er, by When think of the Progress | have ad ar, It is not an j Possibility Surely if Can do It, you Can, too. Make Your list right » and be Confident of your Success, J? €aSY—one Step at a time! Anh STORm! Wild in the west the angered Clouds boj| up, Bruising the hills With Purple Painted Wrath OUChing the edge of OUr inverted Cc Sky and following frightening Path he hidde fires hes Oldering sun urn briefly bright behin the SS, then flare Nd slow; d beneath it, one by Till just th Surging Storm Itself js there € wait. We Watch it m h across Our Knowing ts Unleash rage will find us her There is NO place to hide nor run, and | Turn to you Quickly, 8rateful are near; Now SOON the lightning thrust, the t UNder-drums Ove, take Y hand when that fierce 371 How Many Ways to Stroganoff? ROUND STEAK STROGANOFF 2 Ibs. Round steak 1 10¥%2-0z. Can consommé Yc. Flour Y2 soup can water 1 tsp. Salt 1 bay leaf 1 tsp. Paprika - 1 tsp. Italian seasoning Yc. Salad oil 1 can whole mushrooms, drained Y2 c. Chopped onion 1 c. Dairy sour cream Cut meat into bite-sized pieces. Dredge in a mixture of the flour, salt, and paprika. Heat oil in skillet, add meat and brown, then add onion and sauté until barely tender. Add consommé, water, and seasoning. Cover and turn to very low, and simmer 45 minutes to 1 hour (or until meat is tender). It may be necessary to add a little more water as meat cooks. Stir in mushrooms and sour cream just before serving time. Heat briefly, and serve over rice. Serves 6. Because of the cream soup in the following recipe, it takes some extra watching as it simmers. As its name implies, however, the flavor is superior, and worth the extra watching. "SOUPER" STROGANOFF 1% Ibs. Round steak, cubed Ya tsp. Garlic purée flour to cover meat 2 beef bouillon cubes dissolved dash pepper in 1% c. Boiling water Y%4 c. Butter or margarine - 1 can cream of mushroom soup 1 can sliced mushrooms, drained 1 c. Dairy sour cream 1 medium onion, chopped noodles, as desired Dust meat with flour and pepper, then brown in butter in hot skillet. (Do not salt meat, as soups add sufficient.) Add the mushrooms, onion, and garlic purée, browning lightly before stirring in bouillon and soup. Cover with tight fitting lid and simmer for 1 hour, watching carefully, and stirring often. Gradually blend in sour cream just before serving. About 20 minutes before the Stroganoff is ready, begin cooking noodles, so Sauce does not stand after Stirring in sour cream. Serves 4-6. Discover another easy, easy way to Stroganoff when you use the sour cream as a topping instead of a sauce. For a really new touch, add dill pickles to the sour cream. TOP-NOTCH STROGANOFF 1 Ib. Ground beef 2 cans cream chicken soup 2 Cc. Onions, sliced thin 1 4-0z. Can mushrooms 2 tbsp. Butter 1 c. Dairy sour cream 1 tsp. Salt ¥Y2 c. Chopped dill pickles paprika Brown the ground beef and onions in butter. Add salt, then undiluted soup, and mushrooms with liquid. Cook over low heat until hot. Serve over two cups quick rice Prepared as directed on package. Top each serving with sour cream mixed with Pickles, and sprinkle with paprika. Serves 6-8. You can even whip up a Stroganoff casserole when you are caught without a supply of sour cream. Just use this recipe which has a surprise substitute for the sour cream. 373 May 1970 BURGER BUTTERMILK STROGANOFF 4 oz. Noodles Y% c. Catsup 1 Ib. Ground beef 2 tsp. Worcestershire sauce 1 medium onion, chopped (or less to taste) Yc. Flour 2 oz. Can mushroom bits pepper to taste and pieces ¥% tsp. Salt 1% c. Buttermilk Cook noodles according to package directions. Drain. Meanwhile in skillet combine ground beef and onions. Cook until meat is well-browned and onions are tender, stirring frequently. Take from heat and blend in the flour, pepper, and salt, then add catsup, Worcestershire sauce, mushrooms with liquid, and buttermilk. Mix well, then add cooked, drained noodles and stir again until mixed in well. Turn into 1% quart casserole and bake 25-30 minutes in a 350 degree oven. Top with mild cheese slices if desired, and return to oven until melted. No Stroganoff repertoire would be complete without a few recipes featuring the homemaker's handy helper—hamburger! The following recipe is almost faster than opening a can, but you can't tell it by the results. SPEEDY STROGANOFF 1 lb. Ground beef 1 can cream of mushroom soup 2 tbsp. Green pepper, diced 1 tbsp. Worcestershire sauce 2 tbsp. Onion, chopped ¥% c. Dairy sour cream Brown ground beef in enough shortening to keep it from sticking to pan, adding green pepper and onion when meat is almost done. When beef is richly browned, and green pepper and onion are tender, add soup and Worcestershire sauce, stirring until well blended. Stir in sour cream, and serve immediately over hot Chinese noodles, rice, or mashed potatoes. When you are in the mood for something more original—this is it—Meatball Stroganoff with a most unusual ingredient in the meatballs. Add cocoa for a delicious new flavor combination that rates approval from everyone. ALSACE MEATBALL STROGANOFF 1 Ib. Ground beef 2 tbsp. Butter 1 tsp. Salt 1 c. Diced onion 3 tbsp.

Flour 1 2-oz. can sliced mushrooms 1 tsp. Cocoa 1 c. Hot water 1 c. Dairy sour cream Add salt to the ground beef, and divide into 16 balls. Combine the flour, and cocoa and roll balls in mixture until evenly coated. Fry meatballs in the butter until well browned on all sides, meanwhile adding onion to skillet so it can be cooking at the same time. Add mushrooms with liquid, hot water, and the remaining flour and cocoa, stirring constantly until mixture thickens to gravy consistency. Turn heat to low, and blend in sour cream. This is especially good served over fluffy brown rice. Serves 4.5. There is room in the Stroganoff sphere for lots of imagination, so let yours soar. How about cube steaks instead of round steak for speedier preparation, or hamburger patties marinated in a sour cream sauce? You will find many other tempting possibilities. Perhaps you will even make Stroganoff cookery your specialty! 374

rr a yr? 5 ' A; Phe Kranj Wonder
Helen Hinckley Jones = Deep in underground caves in Yugoslavia lives a remarkable fish— the Kranj Wonder. For two hundred years men have seen this queer creature that looks something like an eel and something like a lizard, but only recently have they even guessed how strange the proteus anguinus really is. Scientists knew that the fish lives only in very cold water in underground caves, that it has colorless skin, occasional scales, atrophied legs with three toes on the front feet and two on the back; that it has large, round sightless eyes, and a flattened tail, oval toward the tip. What they didn't know is that the Kranj Wonder gives birth sometimes to eggs and sometimes to live offspring—the only known creature to do this remarkable thing. Scientists had recovered eggs—and argued they were not live young; peasants had seen infant fish and argued that they were not eggs. Two ichthyologists, Kramer and Nusbaum of the Ljubljana Institute finally solved the riddle. Live birth takes place when the water is below fifteen degrees centigrade; eggs are ejected when the water is warmer. No doubt ichthyologists will be studying the special organs that make this impossible thing possible.

I only mentioned the names of the scientists and the technological institute so that you would know I wasn't "putting you on," not because I intend to enroll in the institute or assist these men in their research. I would rather think about people and how different their responses are in a warm environment and a cold one. Most of us don't live in dark caves, isolated from the world, even in self-made caves. Most of us aren't sightless unless we fit the description "none so blind as those who will not see." But we know the difference between warmth and coldness, and we respond even though our environment is modified by a hundred different influences.

For many years I have observed children and young adults. This doesn't make me an expert, simply an experienced people-watcher, but this I have seen over and over again. A cold environment fosters a lack of appreciation, lack of interest, lack of love, gives birth to distressing attitudes of inner conflict, self-depreciation, antagonism, withdrawal. A warm atmosphere encourages the birth of such attitudes as friendliness, cooperation, a sound self-image, self-acceptance, love, and compassion.

Years ago I was having trouble controlling a high school boy who preferred performing antics to looking in a book or participating in discussion. One afternoon I talked with him, his long legs folded awkwardly under a classroom desk. At first he was reluctant to confide in me. Slowly, almost tentatively he began to respond.

"Derrick," I said (this is not his real name but will indicate his national origin), "I want you to write the first words that come into your mind when I say school teacher history... Father."

The words that came into his mind for school, teacher, and history didn't surprise me. "Boring, dull, long, useless." What really chilled me were the words he wrote in response to father. "Leather belt, pain, hate, kill."

When I read back the words he had written he said, "Well, it's true. I do hate my father, but I don't blame him for treating me like he does. I'm no good. I'm dumb. I'm stupid. It'd be better if I was dead. I'm nothing but a big ape."

Tears came into his eyes and he was angry at me for seeing them. I didn't mention his classroom behavior. It didn't take a psychologist to tell me that his antics before his peers were absolutely necessary to him if he was to cover his deep sense of inferiority.

How could this boy ever feel that he was a "child of God," how could he ever walk in the world with self-confidence and faith? At that time I didn't know the story of the proteus anguinus, the Kranj Wonder. Just the same I knew that Derrick was living in a dark cave in mighty cold water penetrated only now and then by a shaft of warmth and light. And I knew that I must be such a shaft if I could possibly grow big and warm enough to qualify.

I am thinking of adults as environment-makers. But sometimes children make our environment, too. One evening my five-year-old grandson said, "I wish I had someone to hear my prayers," his sweet undemanding way of making a request. I took his hand and we went together to a quiet room. He knelt by my knee.

"Heavenly Father, thank you for our beautiful world. Thank you for our beautiful Church. Thank you for our beautiful grandma...."

Beauty is a feeling to Sean rather than something that pleases the senses. I know right well how un-beautiful I am, but to be linked with the world and the Church in this loved child's thoughts made all the "water" around me warm and pleasant and lighted up my whole personal "cave."

Far away in Yugoslavia in cold water caves lives the Kranj Wonder. Just around my corner lives someone who is waiting for me to find reason for praise, an opportunity for an expression of appreciation, a genuine word of love.

I believe I'll leave the proteus anguinus to Kramer and Nusbaum.

377

A "BEDDY DUPEY" TRADITION
Hattie B. Maughan

With love and nostalgic memories I have just set the last stitches in two "Beddy Dupeys." They are destined to find their way into the loving arms of two of my expected posterity, a first great-grandchild, and a latest (I refuse to say last) grandchild.

In case you do not know what a Beddy Dupey is (you won't find it in Webster's Unabridged), it is a baby quilt. But not just any baby quilt. It must have been cuddled and chewed upon and cherished until it has a character of its own and has been christened by its owner as Beddy Dupey, Pilt, Blanky, or some other endearing name.

Our youngest daughter who is about to present us with our twenty-fifth grandchild (only five are hers) gave the name Beddy Dupey to her quilt.

Others of the children called theirs "Pilt," "Blanky," or simply possessively "Mine." Because of the exclusive ownership of a Beddy Dupey it can never be passed on from one child to another. As the lengthening limbs of a child make the baby quilt obviously too short or too narrow, it is still cherished, smuggled into bed, wrapped around a kitten or a puppy, or just embraced as a loving, old-time friend. Since it will be a coverlet for an infant, it must be as soft and downy as a baby's cheek but, since it will also be expected to grow up with the child, it should be as durable as a pair of denims. I have chosen for my quilts a good quality outing flannel. It is dainty but colorful, tiny pink and blue flowers on a white background. The general effect is blue, but there is a sprinkling of pink so either sex may possess it and conform to the customary color for either a boy or a girl. It is filled with the best Orlon batting. A one-pound bat will make three baby quilts. It is tied three inches apart with Orlon yarn. A tied quilt is fluffier than a quilted one, and children love the ties. Be sure they are put in with good square knots so they won't pull out and be swallowed. Of course, nothing can guarantee that some of the ties will not be removed. There is nothing more persistent than a two-year-old's fingers or a four-year-old who has just learned to use scissors. I know from sad experience that an angelic little cherub, after being tucked in for her nap, can slip out of her crib, get her blunt scissors and, while awaiting the arrival of the sandman, systematically clip out the ties in her Beddy Dupey. Since the edges will be dragged over many floors, mine are reinforced with blanket stitching in the same yarn with which the quilt is tied. A Beddy Dupey is closer to a child than his clothes. He has daily changes of clothes, but a quilt is constant security. A child may at first be attracted to the softness or the color, but when the attachment is formed, the complexion of the coverlet has nothing to do with its loveability. The grimier it becomes, the more it is beloved. Squeamish mothers may shudder as a freshly bathed child grabs a corner of his soiled blanket to chew on as he goes to sleep. But separating the child from his or her Beddy Dupey for a necessary laundering can be a traumatic experience for mother and child. It is highly recommended that Daddy take the child to the store to get a popsicle while the necessary washing takes place. You modern mothers be grateful for a dryer to 'hurry the process. My days were not so fortunate. I had very unobtrusively slipped the Pilt into the washing one day. It hung dripping on the clothesline when my son returned from the store with his Daddy, chocolate ice cream generously smearing his face. "My Pilt," he screamed, clasping its dampness to his gooey hands and face. My Beddy Dupeys are not dainty creations of satin and chiffon. They are made for service. Let no child of mine ever say to a child of hers, "Don't you dare take that pretty quilt your grandmother made you into the sandpile or the tree hut." That's what a Beddy Dupey is for: It should see a child through the terrors of the night, the pleasures of the day, through sickness and through health.

Chapter 5 Synopsis: The night Jerusha was to spend with the Wilsons when her car broke down near their home has stretched into a permanent situation. Her presence in the home has manifested itself in many ways, some of which are obvious to everyone. Joe still resents her presence, but Jerusha has been able to comfort Amy, and has achieved a deep friendship with Suzey and Dennis. Jerusha has introduced Paul, the father of the children, to Lynn Barlow, a schoolteacher. "Please, Dad," Paul said, "I wouldn't take any room." "Sh-h-h," Lynn said with her finger to her lips, her eyes twinkling at the boy. "We're rushing your father. I'll tell you, you wait and talk it over together." Then, quite suddenly, she shot a glance at Joe. "I just had another idea. How about dragging your big brother along to help keep you out of the goblin holes?" Hazel K. Todd Jerusha had been watching the development with amused interest. Now she stole a cornerwise glance at Joe who was somewhat confused. But he regained his aloofness, shook the lock of hair falling over his forehead into the proper place and found some words. "Why me?" he said with a flushed face. "Oh, brothers out together in the wilds of nature ought to be a good working combination," Lynn laughed good-humoredly. "Maybe you could find something interesting for me to crow about to Craig, like a dinosaur bone or something." After dinner Lynn insisted on helping with the dishes. "How about Suzey and me?" she asked, reinforcing the offer with a smile at Suzey. But Jerusha had other ideas. "T just remembered," she said, "I need to have Suzey try on her new outfit so I can measure some spots. We have to have her ready for girls' camp next week. Isn't it next week, Suzey?" "Why, yes, Jerusha, but." "Why don't you help Lynn with the dishes, Paul?" she went on, without giving Suzey a chance to finish. "It'll be a good change from farm work." "T guess I still know how to wipe dishes," Paul said with an odd smile at Jerusha. "I haven't done it since you came, Jerusha." He looked from one woman to the other. "Anybody have an extra apron around here?" Jerusha was quick to transfer hers. She tied it around his waist and motioned to Suzey. Suzey gave the unusual dishwashers an equally unusual sort of smile and followed Jerusha from the room.

At the rest of the evening Amy never left Jerusha. She stroked her hand that she clung to, patted her skirt, and pulled her down to whisper bits of things into her ear. And when Jerusha tucked her into bed after an extraordinary version of the Clippety Clop Man, the little girl reached up and put her hands on the wrinkled face. "Mommy," she said in an awed low voice as though the words might frighten even herself, "I love you, Mommy." Jerusha caught her breath. The child's round face swam in a pool of mist. She felt herself engulfed with a smothering, tingling warmth. Then she stiffened. What had she done! She could not be Amy's mommy! But a great longing squelched the fear.

Paul was leaning with his back against the casing of the bedroom door watching her. His lips moved into a strange, emotion-mixed sort of smile as though there had been stirred together in its making, gratitude and sorrow, hope and weariness, all to culminate in a kind of drastic, heartrending effect. He took her hand and she closed the door behind them. They stood in the hall facing each other, and he remained holding her small wrinkled hand gently in his. "You have given her a new life," he said. "How can I ever repay you?" It was difficult to make the wheels turn in her head. "It is so easy to love her," she answered, and then with her own straightforwardness, "but others could win her, too." "No one ever has," he said, "not since her mother." He took his eyes from her face and looked away down the hall. "Dorothy loved this little girl so much." "Yes," Jerusha said, and then, presently, she added in a less serious note, "did you forgive me for making you wash the dishes?" He dropped her hand carefully from his. "Of course," he smiled, "Miss Barlow is as you said, a very interesting person. She is like you, frank and without pretense." "Are we really now!" Jerusha 381 May 1970 said lightly with a smile and turned to go. But he caught her hand again. "Jerusha," he said, his eyes imploringly on her face, "I pray continually that you will never leave little Amy." His voice held almost a desperate plea. She looked at him fondly, her heart aching. "I'll stay, my son," she said, "as long as." She searched for adequate words, "as long as little Amy needs me." A light of gratitude and love and peace spread over his face. He raised her worn wrinkled hand and pressed it lovingly to his lips. "Thank you, Mother Jerusha," he said.

"T thought you were supposed to be helping Joe clean the hen house while your father is in town," Jerusha said to Dennis who was digging worms for his birdhouse friends while she was clipping the dead flower knobs from the rosebushes and dropping them into a bucket. "He told me he wanted to do it alone," Dennis answered. Jerusha's heart sank. She was sure she knew why Joe wanted to be alone. She wondered how long it would be before Paul knew, and what he could do when he did. Maybe when school started and he was playing football.... But in that case, it would just be so he could play ball which would not be a real solution. "T hope my dad will let us go to the 'Badlands' with that schoolteacher," Dennis said. "Every time I ask him, he just says, 'We'll see.' I wouldn't fall in a goblin hole, even if Joe wouldn't go with us." Jerusha set the bucket down. 382

This trip with Lynn Barlow Lynn knew teen-aged boys. She had been able to get closer to Joe in an afternoon than she herself had in over a month. But the promising idea that set the wheels turning in her head was suddenly interrupted. Amy came running and crying from the direction of the barn. She was trying to say something about a fire and the chicken coop, but she was so frightened and crying so hard that her words were almost incoherent. "The hen house must be on fire!" Jerusha exclaimed. "Get Suzey and the milk pails! Quick!" she told Dennis while she snatched the bucket she had been working with, and paused ever so briefly to touch the little girl's flying hair, and say "Go into the house, sweetheart, and love your doll." There was, indeed, a fire in the chicken coop. The corner was blazing near the burned-down weeds where it must have started. Chickens were cackling and smoke belching into the sky. Jerusha took a quick survey. Luckily the irrigation ditch ran close by, and it was filled with water, but the inferno was already well on its way, and she knew the dry lumber would go in a hurry. She dumped the stems and scooped a bucket of water in one swish. Then Dennis and Suzey came running, each with a milk pail, while Skeeter galloped at their heels ready to hold up the cheering end of the operation.

Sometime during the excitement of flying water and smoke and fire and squawking chickens, Joe appeared, white-faced and silent. He grabbed a huge feed can standing against the end of the building and began scooping water as though his life depended on it. Jerusha had begun to realize the futility of the fight. She could see the barn going next, and then the machine shed, but, with the addition of Joe's strength and the big feed can, somehow the fire was whipped. There was a gaping hole in the corner of the chicken house, a huddle of frightened, wet chickens in the corner of the run, and a few others meandering about freely outside their domain, shaking their wet feathers. The three fire fighters were covered with smoke, flying ashes, and cinders, and dripping with water. Jerusha looked at Dennis and had to chuckle when she noticed the front of his singed-off hair. Joe had traded his can for one of the buckets and was pouring water on burned spots about the area.

"Jerusha, your leg!" Suzey exclaimed suddenly with concern, staring at it. Jerusha looked down at her leg which was bleeding profusely through the torn hose. In all the excitement she had been oblivious to the injury. But it was easy to see now that a stick or something had jabbed her leg during the scramble. "Well, mercy sakes!" she said, "I didn't even know it. So it must not be very bad." Joe's eyes were on the injury, but he did not raise them to her face. "Here, maybe this will help," he said. He pulled a white handkerchief from his pocket. "It was clean this morning." "Thank you!" Jerusha said, joyful hope swelling in her. She turned to Suzey. "You'd better go check on Amy," she said, refolding the handkerchief to tie around her leg. "She was very frightened." Then to Dennis, "I think I threw those sharp clippers into the roses somewhere. See if you can find them before someone is hurt." She turned the feed can upside down and sat on it while she tied the handkerchief around her injured limb. Joe stood silently watching. Presently he cleared his throat. "Jerusha," he said. "Yes, Joe?" She went on arranging the handkerchief with more care than was necessary. "I—I guess you know how the fire started!" he blurted. "How did it start, Joe?" she asked quite nonchalantly with her attention still on the bandage. "I. Was smoking. I—I must have dropped the match or the— the cigarette." "I suppose so," Jerusha remarked, her eyes still tied up with her leg. "Are you going to tell Dad?" She raised up and looked at him then. "Do you want me to tell him, Joe?

I think it would be much better if you told him, don't you?" He was silent for a time, his hand rimming the bail of the bucket thoughtfully. Then he looked her squarely in the face. "Yes, I guess so," he said. She smiled at him. "Do you suppose you ought to sort of nail some boards over that hole and try to catch those few scalawag chickens that are loose? Maybe Skeeter could help you." "I'm afraid he'd bite them," Joe said.

Into 383 May 1970

"Yes, I guess you're right. And we don't need that many chicken dinners all at once." She stood up and started toward the house, but he stopped her. "Jerusha." She turned. "I'm sorry about your leg." "Oh, it doesn't amount to anything," she smiled. He still stood with something to say. She waited. "I I really haven't smoked much," he said. She nodded. "And Jerusha." She turned again, her eyes shining. "I'm sorry—I've been such a dope. I won't be any more. I don't feel good this way." She walked over and brushed some of the charred sticks from his hair. "Let's just shake hands and forget it, shall we?" They shook hands, and this time she was able to continue her way to the house, singing inside with elaborate inclusiveness that she would have been just as happy if they had had to burn the whole barnyard down.

When Paul came home, Joe was waiting for him at the gate. They sat in the car for a long time, and then they walked back to the damaged hen house. When they returned and sat down to supper, there was no indication of any bad feelings between them. Paul asked about her leg and suggested strongly he take her to a doctor. But she assured him it was really not serious at all.

The next day Paul, Joe, and Dennis spent the entire day repairing the hen house. And the fire was never mentioned again.

A few days later Lynn Barlow and Ruth Johnson stopped at 384 the Wilsons. Paul and Joe were putting up a new fence beyond the ridge. Dennis was hauling lawn clippings to the calf pasture. He saw them coming and came running to make the announcement. Amy was standing on a chair watching Jerusha roll out cookie dough. But when Dennis shouted his declaration, she scrambled off the chair, gathered up her doll with the new patchwork quilt Jerusha had made it, and darted away out the kitchen door. Jerusha's eyes followed pensively after her.

"I wonder how I ever caught her," she mused, "and how will anyone else?" Lynn, just ahead of Ruth, stood in the door smiling and full of vivacious well-being as natural as if she had always been a close friend of the family. "Your house has a new look!" she said. Jerusha smiled with pleasure. "Yes, Joe just painted it," she said. "He's going to paint the fence tomorrow." "Wonderful! We just came to convince this cautious Father Wilson that I need his sons to help me uncover the mysteries of the goblin holes of this fabulous land of Utah," she laughed. "Where can I find him?" "Well, he and Joe are putting up a fence across the farm, I believe," Jerusha said. She looked at Lynn's summer sandals dubiously. "I don't believe your shoes would take it." "I'm sure I don't want to traipse out in the grain stubbles," Ruth said, settling herself into a chair. "I could go tell him," Dennis offered, more than willing, with his eyes on Jerusha. "T don't see why not," she said, looking at the clock. "It's about time to quit anyway. And maybe they can talk it over some on the way in." Dennis was gone like a bullet from a gun, calling to Skeeter as he shot out the door.

"Where's Amy?" Lynn asked, looking around the room. "She vanished out the back way when she heard you were coming." Lynn eyed Jerusha curiously. "How did you capture her?" she asked. "Just kept trying, I guess," Jerusha answered, watching out the window the little girl rocking her doll back and forth on the bench by the willow tree.

The round table discussion turned out to be successful for Lynn and the boys. After being convinced that his sons would be an asset and not a liability, Paul consented, expressing his appreciation for the opportunity for them. "Yippi!" Dennis sang out and shot through the door again, this time to make three somersaults across the front lawn and land in a melee of dog legs and boy legs.

Jerusha Spends the Night

"T've hired a guide," Lynn said, "who's supposed to know the whole country. I tried to get Ruth to go along so I wouldn't be a lone woman, but she's afraid she'd end up with the dead horses, so I guess I'll do it alone unless Jerusha will go." Jerusha was looking at Suzey, watching interestedly from the sidelines. "Well, I'll bet I could keep up with you," she said, "but I have a better idea. I'm sewing school clothes for Amy right now, and I'm sure goblin holes would be no place to take her. But Suzey just came back from camp. She knows all about roughing it. Why don't you take her?" And so it happened that Paul found his three older children telling him goodbye as they departed on a new adventure into a new country with a newly found friend.

"T'll be good for them," Jerusha said as she and Paul stood by the gate, Amy clinging to her hand. "Your three children on a trip together with someone as wholesome as Lynn Barlow." "Yes," Paul said, "T feel very confident she will take care of them." And arms in a mix-up with Skeeter. Marked happily.

(to be continued)

Children in the Night

What do children speak of in the night,
Clucking like downy chicks in the soft dark?
Telling childish secrets, cuddling close,
Watching for the first star's golden light.

What do children whisper!
Near windows where leaves murmur, small birds peep,
Wrapped in the blanket of pure love and peace,
Before their prayers ascending merge with sleep?

—Christie Lund Coles

Relief Society Activities

Modesto Stake (California) Holds Successful Relief Society Convention, November 13, 1969

Front row, in center: President Belle S. Spafford; Catherine Openshaw, President, Modesto Stake Relief Society.
Sister Openshaw reports: "A most successful Relief Society Convention with the theme 'Relief Society, A Key to Eternal Blessings,' was held in our stake. Over seven hundred sisters attended and the phases of Relief Society were shown through music, the spoken word, demonstration, and display.

"Our special guests were President Spafford and Sister Helen Lach of the General Board. The Singing Mothers performed, and a dramatization, 'Home Is My Harbor,' was presented.

Lovely displays of ceramics, candle making, chocolate dipping, cake decorating, and how to draw, design, and complete a quilt were popular with everyone. Clothing was modeled and the bake shops and candy shop were visited by everyone."

As people entered the foyer they were welcomed by a waterfall with real water, and garden, and the theme depicted by gold keys, each representing a lesson department or service of Relief Society. "We were pleased with the cooperation from each of the wards in making this a very successful event." — Hillside Stake (Utah), Wasatch Ward Presents "A Date With Christmas," December 5, 1969 Pictured at left: Grace O. Ensign, President, Wasatch Ward Relief Society; ninth from left: Harvene Willis, Education Counselor; Susannah Palmer, Secretary-Treasurer; Bessie Memmott, Homemaking Counselor; second from right: Wanda Pulsipher, homemaking leader. Leah C. Wood, President, Hillside Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Wasatch Ward of our stake held a lovely bazaar with the theme 'A Date With Christmas.' Round tables were set up in the foyer displaying the lovely handmade articles, while the bakery, candy, and white elephant shops were in the cultural hall. Dinner was served to 275 guests and a group of gaily dressed carolers entertained under a decorated Christmas lamp, accompanied by a violin sextet. It was a successful evening, both socially and financially." 386 All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through the stake Relief Society presidents, or mission Relief Society supervisors. One annual submission will be accepted, as space permits, from each stake and mission of the Church. Submissions should be addressed to the Editorial Department, Relief Society Magazine, Salt Lake City, Utah 84111. For details regarding pictures and descriptive material, see The Relief Society Magazine for January 1970, page 48. Color pictures are not used in this department.

May 1970
Canadian Mission—Toronto Stake Relief Society Conference October 18-19, 1969 Front row from left to right: Olive Davies, Secretary; Marie Templeman, Counselor; Phyllis Baker, President, Toronto Stake Relief Society; Ellen Barnes of the General Board of Relief Society; Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor of Relief Society; Belle S. Spafford, General Relief Society President; Emma Marr Petersen (wife of Elder Mark E. Petersen); Ardella Davey, Mission Relief Society Supervisor; Elva M. Adamson, President; Alberta E. Smith, Counselor; Mildred Smith, Counselor, mission Relief Society; Valarie Shelton and Ida Perkins, music directors. Sister Davey reports: "At the request of Elder Mark E. Petersen, we extended an invitation to Toronto Stake Relief Society to participate in our annual Mission Relief Society Conference. 'Theme for the conference was 'Fifty Golden Years,' representing the establishment of the Church in Eastern Canada. We were delighted to have as our special guests Elder Petersen and his lovely wife, President Spafford, and Sisters Madsen and Barnes. 'In addition to the inspiring addresses a luncheon and fashion show were presented, an evening reception honored our guests, and the Singing Mothers performed. It was indeed a wonderful and well-received event."'

Wellington Stake (New Zealand) Singing Mothers Present Concert and Sing at Stake Conference April 27, 1969 Front row, left to right: Charlotte Solomon, responsible for floral arrangements; Kathrine Berends, Education Counselor; Heidi McKay, chorister; Avice Fau, President; Yvonne Meaklin, organist. Sister Fau reports: "Our Singing Mothers presented a concert, which so impressed the stake president that he requested them to perform at stake conference the following week. It was truly an honor for the sisters, and they enjoyed the opportunity very much."

Las Vegas Stake (Nevada) Presents "Christmas Creations" December 5, 1969 Las Vegas Stake Relief Society officers, left to right: Barbara L. Roberts, homemaking leader; LaRue S. Sutton, Homemaking Counselor; Velma H. Stewart, Education Counselor; Helen W. Peterson, President. Sister Peterson reports: "Our Christmas project was a day-long event at which the sisters from each ward and branch could display their lovely articles of handwork, along with any decorating ideas they wished to share. The ward presidencies served as hostesses. Holiday foods were available and a bake sale was held. In one foyer of the building a display featuring lovely decorations which could be made from native plants in Southern Nevada was aptly called 'Christmas in the Desert.' In the other foyer, a display called 'An Old-Fashioned Christmas' impressed many. A nativity scene which had been renovated and refurbished by Relief Society sisters was displayed in front of the building. Stake and full-time missionaries were on hand with contacts, and several met with the presidency in the chapel where Relief Society was explained to them. All were impressed with the bazaar and with the scope of Relief Society."

May 1970
Smithfield Stake (Utah), Smithfield Fourth Ward Presents "Swiss Holiday" Ursula Z. Jaussi, in charge of the "Pottassurie Conditorie." Selena G. Low, President, Smithfield Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Fourth Ward of our stake presented an outstanding bazaar with the theme 'Swiss Holiday.' From the moment you entered the building you seemed actually to be in Switzerland. All of the shops had Swiss names with English translation, as pictured. The decoration was outstanding, as were the items available. The movie, 'Yellowstone Cubs,' was presented for the children's entertainment while parents browsed. A sidewalk cafe provided a delightful place to rest and eat. All of the sisters working in any capacity wore Swiss costumes. It was indeed one of the most delightful bazaars ever held in our stake."

Mount Ogden (Utah), Fifty-Second Ward Sponsors "Plum Pudding Project," October 1969 Mena White mixes as Anna Udy, Sara Buck, Retha Ellsworth, Tessie Sessions, Flossie Hurst, and Augusta Davis assist in measuring, filling and weighing cans of plum pudding. Edvenia J. Malan, President, Mount Ogden Stake Relief Society, reports: "One of the most unique homemaking activities in our stake this year was undertaken by the Fifty-second Ward Relief Society. Each year they can and sell plum pudding. Each can is uniformly packed, processed in roasters, and sealed. Twenty-nine women worked for two days on this project. The puddings are becoming so famous that orders are coming from as far away as California, and demand is beginning to exceed supply." "We are very proud of the efforts of these sisters. Bernice Gerritsen is President of the Fifty-second Ward Relief Society."

Ben Lomond South Stake (Utah), Ogden Fortieth Ward Presents Old-Fashioned Bazaar, November 14, 1969 Left to right: Lauralie Tanner, President, Ogden Fortieth Ward Relief Society; Evalyn Johnson, Homemaking Counselor; Gerlinde Braunberger, chairman, decorations committee; Charlene Neuenswander, homemaking leader; Jeannie Birkeland, Education Counselor. Phylis B. Koldewyn, President, Ben Lomond South Stake Relief Society, reports: "The Ogden Fortieth Ward in our stake presented a bazaar with an old-fashioned theme, carrying the theme out beautifully. Several sisters made delicious scones. Root beer floats and ice cream sodas were sold at Ye Olde Soda Shoppe. An old-fashioned barber shop and a barber pole added to the atmosphere. The knitting booth featured an antique spinning wheel, and many other old-fashioned articles set the scene. The sisters, dressed in period costumes, fit right into the setting. Movies were shown to the children so the adults could enjoy the bazaar. It was a delightful success, attributed to wise and early planning and great enthusiasm."

SOURCIO DITORI aa EG al Nn i weriieeting East Rigby Stake (Idaho) Singing Mothers Present "Prelude to Christmas," December 4, 1969 Donna R. Freeman, President, East Rigby Stake Relief Society, reports: "A successful and memorable musical, 'Prelude to Christmas,' was presented in our stake tabernacle which was beautifully decorated.

Members of the stake presidency took the parts of the Wise Men and other Priesthood members performed special musical numbers. "The Singing Mothers were directed by Sherilynn Bitter, with stake organist Beth Summers at the piano and Bertha Byington at the organ. Maye Meservy and Robert Bitter narrated. "It was a very inspirational evening and was enjoyed by a large and appreciative audience."

FL ee ee Se Seatac

Chicago Stake (Illinois) Presents Singing Mothers Concert, "Music Around the World," October 25, 1969
Front row, in dark dresses, left to right: Lova Snider, First Counselor, Chicago Stake Relief Society; Fern E. Van Orden, President; Carol Morgan, Second Counselor. At far right in dark dress: Gloria Strauss, chorister; to her right: Marion Monson, organist.
Sister Van Orden reports: "Because of the interest generated in Singing Mothers by the presentation of a concert, each ward and branch in our stake now has an active group of Singing Mothers. "We feel that the concert was outstanding. There were more than one hundred singers. The theme of the concert was 'Music Around the World,' and each ward and branch represented a different country. Some of the numbers were highlighted by folk dancing. There were fifty sisters. Behind the singers holding flags representing the states in the United States. One bishop reported that because of the interest in music generated by the concert their ward now has a ward choir.
"It was a beautiful and moving concert, capped by the stake Singing Mothers presenting a finale of five numbers. There was a standing room only audience."

Jackson Stake (Mississippi) Presents Christmas Carnival and Bazaar, December 6, 1969
Stake and ward officers of Jackson Stake Relief Societies, left to right: Vanera Morris, stake Education Counselor; Edith Norton, stake Homemaking Counselor; Jenola Price, President, Jackson Ward; Martha Bennett, President, Greenwood Ward; Marie Beasley, President, Red Star Ward; Arlene Koelling, President, Meridian Ward; Edith Patterson, stake President; Mildred Taylor, President Vicksburg Ward; Sue Edwards, Counselor, Greenville Ward; Mildred Stacy, Counselor, Columbus Ward; Beatrice Dunn, Counselor, Crystal Springs Ward.
Sister Patterson reports: "Each of the wards in our stake worked very hard to make our bazaar and carnival a success. All but one of the wards had to spend from one to three hours in travel. The bazaar was a family affair, and the Jackson ward MIA provided a nursery and the MIA of the stake a talent show in the evening.
"We feel that this was not only successful in bringing families and the stake closer together, but the sisters of Relief Society had many wonderful experiences in planning and presenting the activity."

Lesson Department
ECORI IORI OIE * HOMEMAKING * ¥ Development Through % % Homemaking Education *; Woman's Role in % Family Preparedness % x $ 9 § * 2K 2K 2K 26K OK ORK AK OK KKK KK KK Discussion 11— The Art of Cooking From The Storage Closet (Cont.)
"Behold, the Lord Requireth the Heart and a Willing Mind; and the Willing and Obedient Shall Eat the Good of the Land in These Last Days." (D&C 64:34.)
Celestia J. Taylor
Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, August 1970 Southern Hemisphere: January 1971
OBJECTIVE: To alert the Latter-day Saint woman to the need for and the use of products rich in protein in her family storage plan.
INTRODUCTION: All of us who are concerned with the health and welfare of our families realize the need for a balanced as well as a nutritional diet. We need to do more than just keep our families alive, we must keep them well.
Foremost among the foods which are necessary for the maintenance of bodily health and vigor are the products that are rich in protein. Fortunately, they are also foremost among the foods which are storable, such as dried beans, peas, rice, powdered milk, peanut butter, canned meat and fish, etc.
394
Whenever a suggested list of foods for storage is compiled, it includes several, if not all, of the above mentioned protein foods for they not only help to safeguard our health, but they also add variety and balance to our diet.

THE IMPORTANCE OF PROTEIN IN THE DIET
Scientists have found that protein is the basis for all living cells. Each cell of the body is dependent upon protein for growth and life. Next to water, protein is the most prevalent substance in the body.
A. As a builder. Protein supplies the cells with the materials necessary to replace or replenish themselves and to build new tissue for growth and development. Our muscles, skin, hair, nails, and eyes are made up of cells of protein.
B. As an operator. Protein aids in the use of other nutrients in the body. Enzymes, hormones, and hemoglobin are made of protein. Protein also supplies energy when carbohydrates are not available.
C. As a protector. Some of the proteins in the blood are responsible for protecting the body from infection, providing resistance and sometimes immunity to disease.

USES OF FOODS RICH IN PROTEIN
If we follow the advice that has been given we will be using the foods that we store so that they will become a part of our family's accustomed diet and a taste for them will be acquired. It is of no practical value to have quantities of any food lying unused and simply stored for some future emergency.
Following are some suggestions which will help us utilize the protein foods that we store.
1. Dried beans, peas, and rice. (These are an inexpensive source of protein, B vitamins, and iron, as well as calories.)
Boston Baked Beans
1 lb. Dried peas or navy beans 1 cup diced onion (1 large) ¥, cup molasses ¥, cup brown sugar, firmly packed 1 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Dry mustard 1 cup hot liquid from beans ¥, lb. Salt pork or ham

Wash beans, soak overnight in water to cover. Drain, place beans in large saucepan, cover with water, add onion, simmer until tender (about one hour.) Drain, reserving one cup of liquid, turn into 2-quart bean pot or casserole. Mix dry ingredients with hot liquid drained

Lesson Department
CANDLES FOR YOUR STORAGE PROGRAM Direct from our candle factory These are slightly imperfect candles at big discount. Also ideal for banquets, fund-raising projects, bazaars, etc.
Send $1.00 for sample 3" x 6" candle and we will send prepaid. Request price list.

CANDLE KITCHEN
2335 South West Temple Salt Lake City, Utah 84115
487-3297

New Magazine Binding Prices and Postage Rates
A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume.
Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service.

Cloth Cover - $3.50; Leather Cover - $5.50
Yearly Index Included

Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed.
Postage Rates from Salt Lake City, Utah Zone land2 _..55 Zone5.~___-_.75 Zone3.~___- 60 Zone6 _ -.85 Zone4 ____.-65 Zone7 ___...95 Zone 8_ _ _ -_ - 1.05
@. DESERET.

FRPews PRESS 1600 Empire Road, Salt Lake City, Utah 84104 Phone (801) 486-1892

395 May 1970

From beans, pour over beans, add additional water to cover. Place salt pork or ham on top, cover. Bake at 300 degrees F. For three hours, adding water if top seems dry. Uncover and bake another half hour.

('To shorten soaking time of beans boil beans in 3 quarts water for two minutes, remove from heat, cover, soak one hour, cook as directed.)

Creamed Lima Beans
2 cups dried lima beans
Salt and pepper to taste
1 tbsp. Cooking oil or fat
1 cup milk or cream

Soak beans for one hour and then simmer for two hours or until tender. Drain and add milk or cream. If milk is used, add 1 tbsp. Butter. Season and serve.

Soy Beans
In areas where soy beans are grown they can be prepared as directed for baked beans. They must be tender before baking, otherwise they will not be good. They require soaking for twelve hours before cooking.

Purée of Split Peas
Cover 1 pound of split peas with boiling water and cook 2 minutes. Remove from heat and let stand one hour or more. Add a ham bone or piece of salt pork, cover, and cook slowly until the peas are soft. Drain and remove the bone or pork. Put the peas through a purée strainer. Season to taste. Add butter or cream.

The King of Sweden's Soup
1 lb. Dried split peas
1 small onion, peeled
1 carrot, scraped
2 leeks or green onions
3 lettuce leaves 1/4, lb. Salt pork
1-1/2 qts. Water
1-1/2 tsp. Salt
1-1/2 tsp. Sugar

Wash and drain peas. Cover with water and bring to a boil. Cook 5 minutes. Remove from heat and soak overnight in same water. Drain. Chop onion, carrot, leeks, and lettuce coarsely together. Cook 1 or 2 minutes with salt pork until coated with hot fat. Remove pork and pour vegetables into drained peas. Add water, salt, and sugar. Cover and cook slowly 2 hours. If soup is too thick add a little hot water or broth. Serve hot.

Never discard the water in which ham or soup bones have been cooked, but save to use as a base for dried pea or bean soup. It can be frozen and kept indefinitely. (See The Relief Society Magazine, January 1964, for additional bean recipes.)

Rice is used almost universally in so many ways that there is no need for suggesting recipes.
2. Dry or powdered milk. This product can be used in any recipe where milk is called for. (Excellent articles on cooking with dry milk are printed in The Relief Society Magazine, February 1959 and August 1963.)
3. Peanut Butter. In addition to protein, peanut butter contains several essential vitamins—thiamine, riboflavin, and niacin. Peanut butter lends itself to a variety of uses in the diet, particularly in cookies and as a filling in various combinations for sandwiches. (See The Relief Society Magazine, November 1963.)
Any reliable cookbook will give instructions and recipes for the use of rice, dry or powdered milk, and peanut butter.

4. Canned Meats and Fish.
Whether we process or can our own meats and fish or whether we purchase them from the markets for our storage, supply will be determined by our mode of living, the locality in which we live, and other varying conditions. The important thing is that we realize the need for some source of meat supply in our family storage plan.
Many kinds of canned meats, fish, and poultry are available in the markets of almost all countries today. These are subject to the same rules of rotation and preservation methods as are other canned products.

CONCLUSION
In countries where storage problems are accentuated because of climactic conditions or because of lack of facilities for proper storing and/or lack of storable foods, special procedures will need to be worked out by research experts and by those who can study these problems in their individual settings and environments.

PUSY WILLOWS

Bare stalks
Swelled, burst
To silver-furred Buds, first—
Plump buds We'll soon behold
Wrapped in lace
Of pollen-gold
When, to their glittered
Silver sheen,
Leaves will add satin
Cloaks of green.
—Ethel Jacobson

Lesson Department

Year's food supply Under $200 -Way Under!
12 Same Size Prepacked Cases +10 cans — Low Moisture Foods 5 Fruits, 6 Grains, 3 Protein Foods, 8 Vegetables plus Juices, Desserts, Sugar, Seasoning and Assorted Menu Extras.
Balanced Food Supply in convenient-tostore cartons is scientifically prepared to fill the nutritional needs of one person for one full year or a family of 4-6 three months. Pick up in Salt Lake City or we will ship freight collect.
Gross shipping weight 365 Ibs.

PIERIVAPAK PIONEERS IN PREPAREDNESS PRODUCTS
#40 East 2430 South, Salt Lake City, Utah 84115
+ Phone (801) 486-9671

A modern gas range gives you smokeless broiling instant-on, instant-off an automatically safe oven a self cleaning oven.
"ah See the glamorous new models at your gas appliance dealer's.

Fl Nh \ MOUNTAIN FUEL | [nA &=\ SUPPLY COMPANY i. Natural Gas Sewice eel 397 May 1970

WOULD BE FLEXIBLE
Look through veils of mist Upon a cherry tree,
Wearing the name of spring.
Defying cold, immune To stinging rain, flowered Branches dripping fragility, Move, as winds sweep through Them from a frothy sea Would be flexible As is this tree, Sharing fruitful blessings, Quite unknowingly. —Beulah H. Sadleir

PLAN YOUR VACATION WITH US
North Pacific Coast Tour June 11-20
Hill Cumorah Pageant Tours 16 and 23 Days—Leaves July 25
Canadian Rockies and Northwest Tour August 17-30
Hawaii Aloha Tour October 8-21

Call or write for itineraries.
James Travel Tours
2230 Scenic Drive
Salt Lake City, Utah 84109
Phone: 466-8723

Lesliy DESL MUSIC COMPANY "Singing Mothers" "Choir Directors"
We specialize in Mail Order Service Sheet Music Pianos And Supplies Instruments Come in and Acquaint yourself with our music department Home of the world's finest Mason and Hamlin pianos
Yes! We Ship All Over the World.
-NEW ADDRESS-
65 South West Temple Street
Salt Lake City, Utah 84101
Phone: 364-6518

TO MY SON,
Leaving | hold close this loneliness,
The fallen leaf. My autumn heart has probed The depths of grief. Wind-blown and bleak | keep The tender sorrow Of parting, let it deepen Till tomorrow.
| need this emptiness, White drifts of snow, Before my weeping heart Lets winter go.
—Vesta N. Fairbairn

for inclusion in the Birthday Congrat
Street address, city, state, and Zip code
102 94 93
Mrs. Ella Georgiana Francisco Keele Nephi, Utah Mrs. Ida Reynolds McEldowney Norwalk, California Mrs. Serena Jacobsen Larson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Rebecca Priscilla Alphin Orton Panguitch, Utah Mrs. Henrietta Watkins Barben Deita, Utah Mrs. Phoebe R. Davis Kanarraville, Utah Mrs. Juana Etchandi de Rothfuss Artigas, Uruguay Mrs. Hettie Sniff Hunt Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Hannah Aldous Bihler Orland, California Mrs. Martha Chadwick American Fork, Utah Mrs. Margaret Ann English Browning Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martha Spratley Chadwick American Fork, Utah Mrs. Nettie Bunnell Glaser Shelton, Washington Mrs. Louise Kruetzer Guerich San Diego, California Mrs. Agnes Richards Hancock Centerville, Utah

Margaret Petersen Peterson Springville, Utah Mrs. Isabel Maude Somsen Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Phebe Monk Brill Tujunga, California Mrs. Nettie Bunnell Glaser Shelton, Washington Mrs. Ella Christine Justesen Lund Salt Lake City, Utah 

Inquiries column. The full name and should be submitted at 91-90 for those who have reached the ages of ninety or older may be submitted by anyone (maiden and married), age, month of birth, three months before the birthday.

Mrs. Philinda Keeber Naegle Phoenix, Arizona Mrs. Beatrice Maud Garside Sellers Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarah Elizabeth Welling Zundell Bountiful, Utah Mrs. Charlotte Lusth Carlson San Diego, California Mrs. Emeline Lambert Carpenter Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Josephine Larsen Hunter American Fork, Utah Mrs. May Blackburn Larsen Clawson, Utah Mrs. Ellen Sophia Newby Bliss Spokane, Washington Mrs. Cynthia Glover Miles Bouknight Columbia, South Carolina Mrs. Tabitha Ella Mary Botts Brooks Ottumwa, Iowa Mrs. Etta Brown Cowles Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Turnbull Denton Grand Junction, Colorado Mrs. Agnes Seaman Hackley Louisville, Kentucky Mrs. Sadie Cooley Lucas Pettinger Coos Bay, Oregon Mrs. Ida J. Hickman Pidcock Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Mary Malinda Durden Randall Galant, Alabama Mrs. Viola Carrie Mueller Reese Logan, Utah Mrs. Fannie Judd Richins Henefer, Utah Mrs. Mary Ann Jones Simpson Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Martha May Stephens Steimle Redlands, California Mrs. Arminta Cloward Waters Salt Lake City, Utah 

BUY ONE BOOK & GET ONE FREE for joining BEEHIVE BOOK CLUB (Purchase $4.95 and choose any $3 Book Free!)

OUT OF THE BEST BOOKS FREE (OR ANY OTHER $3 BOOK)

15. Comp. Hist. Of Ch. 6 vols. $4.50 ea.
16. Doc. Hist. Of Ch. —Smith 7vols $4.50 ea.
17 Discourses of J. Smith $4.95
18 Highlights in Life 20

MORMON CLASSICS: "Books that continue to prove their lasting value!"

1. Mission. Bible $15.50
2. Missionary Triple Combo. $11.00
3. Marvelous Work & Wonder $1.95
4. Jesus the Christ—Talmage $2.50*
5. Articles of Faith —Talmage — $2.95*
6. House of the Lord —Talmage $2.95*

VOL. 5 by Bruce B. Clark Robert K. Thomas

7. Teachings of Joseph Smith $3.95
8. Essentials in Church History $5.95
9. Answers to Gospel Quest. 5 vols. $3.25 ea.*
10. D&C Commentary $4.95
11. Meet the Mormons—Green $2.95*
12. Discourses of Brigham Young $4.95
13. Gospel Doctrine J. F. Smith $4.95
14. Art of Home Making-Hoole $4.25

of Pres. McKavett $4.95

19 Mormon Doctrine —McConkie $6.95
20 BofM Digest— Hawkes $4.50

OTHER SELECTIONS:

21. Out of Best Bks. Vol V Special $3.00*
22. "Vols. 2, 3" $1.95 ea.*
23. Beginnings— Pearson $2.50
24. Ancient Apostles $2.95*
25. Just a Minute— Landau $5.50
26. Prophecies & Prophetic Promises of D&C $4.95

*Ideal Free Choices. (Order Other Books!)

"Bookclub 626 'H' St.
Salt Lake City, Utah 84103

400 Please enroll me as a member and send me a free catalog. I agree to return the "Review Card" each month or else purchase the "Feature Book" for joining. One per person! (For postage and handling add 25¢ per book ordered. In Utah add 4% sales tax.)

I have enclosed $—.

A Rediscovered Collection of Early Mormon Art in Full Color

See the "Mormon Panorama" collection of C. C. A. Christensen.
Twenty-two paintings of scenes depicting major events in early Mormon history, including the Hill Cumorah, mob scenes, the burning of the Nauvoo Temple and the pioneer entrance into the Salt Lake Valley.

Every painting is reproduced in brilliant color on fine quality paper. They are all in this new edition of Art In America, America's renowned 56-year-old art magazine.
The magazine considers these paintings as the American art discovery of 1970.

The 10-foot wide by 8-foot high originals will be exhibited in the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York for nine weeks. You'll see 21 pages of Mormon art, sculptures, photos and background data in this May-June edition, NOW available through Deseret Book Company.
This will become a collectors item.

This is the first time such a large collection has been available under one cover and the first time a major national magazine has devoted such wide coverage to Mormon works of art. Order your copies now. They will make excellent gifts.

$2.75

ORDER FROM DESERET BOOK COMPANY
44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah 84110
OR
777 So. Main, Town & Country, Orange, Calif. 92668

Total cost $—.
This must include 4.44% sales tax from Utah residents ordering from Salt Lake, or 5% sales tax from California residents ordering from Orange.

Paid by check, (L) money order, or (L) charge my established account. Also include 25¢ for each book ordered to cover handling and mailing.

Name.
Address
City State Zip

May 1970

RS. ————_———

Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah

AE Deg te ebtnss ee ern oy

Every Year Electricity Does More for You!

In 1913, when Woodrow Wilson was inaugurated President and we began providing electric service, there were 8 types of electric appliances for the home. By 1953, the number of household electric work savers had climbed to 56. Now there are over 200.

Today in your home you're brushing your teeth, shining your shoes, opening your cans of food and doing other chores electrically — jobs you probably never thought of giving to Reddy Kilowatt ten years ago.

Yes, we're proud of Reddy Kilowatt's growing helpfulness to you at so reasonable a cost!

Electric Fondue Thermostatically controlled heat probe, Teflon lined for non-stick serving. Switch to More Electric—Your Biggest Bargain

UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO.
The RCIliof Society Magazine