R S. Y. L. M. I. A. AND PRIMARY
REPORTS.
WILLARD CITY PRIMARY.
Proceedings of our last Primary Quarterly
Conference, at Willard, Feb. 10th, 1883.
We had a programme arranged previously,
consisting of songs, recitations and dialogues.
The children, with willing hearts, performed
'the parts assigned them. We held meeting in
the morning, commencing at 10 o’clock by
singing and prayer; and dismissed at 12
o’clock. Some of our little folks reciting
pieces reminded us of the ancient prophecy,
“Out of the mouths of babes shall praises be
uttered unto the Lord.”
We held a party in the afternoon, commenc-
ing at 1 o’clock. Our boys numbered up to
sixty-five, and girls seventy-five, Bishop
George Facer and counselors made the
children a surprise, consisting of plenty of
candy and nuts, which pleased the children
very much. We closed our party at 6 o’clock.
We also held a concert the 17th of
January. The singers were members of the
Primary, and under the direction of Bro.
Lewis D. Edwards, who takes a great delight
in teaching our Primary in the art of singing.
From your co-workers in the Gospel,
Jane Owens, President-
James S. Perry,
David A. Harding,
Secretaries.
TAYLOR, APACHE CO., ARIZONA.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
Our Primary held a Fair, Dec. 13th, under
the auspices of the officers of the Association.
The Fair was opened at 10 a.m. by singing
and prayer. There was a general attendance
of the people of Taylor and Snowflake. The
children showed considerable interest in pre-
paring articles for the occasion. There were
two wreaths of wool flowers made by girls of
seven and eleven years old. A nice case and
cross neatly ornamented with wax flowers by
a girl nine years old. One boy seven years
old made and painted a garden rake, two boys
made and painted two baby cradles; their ages
were nine and ten. One boy fourteen years
old made an axe handle, window sash and
broom. There were four pairs of stockings
knit by girls from six to eight years old. One
girl nine years old neatly ornamented a cross
with shells and wool flowers; there was one
wagon neatly made and painted by a boy
twelve years old; a girl twelve years old pieced
and quilted and carded the wool for a quilt,
one girl thirteen years old crocheted a tidy;
There was a great variety of other things;
such as mottoes, comb-cases, ornaments of card
board, Btraw braid, hair and wool wristlets;
crochet and knit lace, four pictures paitned


and framed by a boy thirteen years old, be-
sides many other articles which were very
creditable. There was a great variety of cakes
and pies nicely made by the little girls, and
sold at auction for the benefit of the Associa-
tion. The exercises that were rendered by
the children were worthy of praise. A pleas-
ing feature in the programme was the reading
of the manuscript paper, "Banner of Truth"
edited by a boy thirteen years of age, and it
was very creditable to the children of the As.
sociation. Closed by singing and prayer. Of-
ficers at present are as follows. Emma E.
McCleve, President. Rhoda E. Perkins and
Cornelia Woods, Counselors. Anna Standifird
Sec., Jane Perkins, Treasurer.
					ANNA STANDFIELD,
								Secretary.


