MY DEAR SISTERS:
	I hope you have not thought me tardy
and unappreciative in not having ere this
acknowledged the compliment you have all
so kindly and so sweetly paid me. At first
I wanted to give time for the sisters to re-
spond, and then I became very ill through
a severe fall that confined me to the
house for six weeks, and deprived me of
vital energy; but never, no never, did
your kind letters and that beautiful column
of names, become dim on the tablets of

[Column 2]
my heart and brain; but I spent much
time in considering how I could suitably
acknowledge it. At last I have come to
the conclusion, that as it was mooted through
the columns of the EXPONENT that would
be the fittest receptacle for the expression
of my feelings in regard to the sweet
compliments paid to me; and hence for that
purpose I now take pen in hand.
	It was something so entirely unexpected,
and so unique in the design, that for a long
time I stood, as it were, with my finger on my
lips, musing on so rare an event in my hitherto
"sequestered vale of life." My writings will
tell that the thought of what is called fame
is not in my private lexicon. Like the bird
upon the tree, I sing my song, or tell my tale,
and these have often made for me a sunshine
in the shade, and brought to my heart its own
reward; it peoples solitude with beings con-
genial to me, and keeps the heart and brain
from rusting; nay, it polishes both with a
brightness that defies time and age. So you
will see there is considerable self in it after all;
but at last sweet voices break in upon my soli-
tude and words of loving commendations fall
upon mine ear—what do I hear? Listen! I am
told that I have blest—that I have comfort-
ed—that I have elevated and called forth a de-
sire to emulate and do likewise, etcetera.—and
most especially the etcetera! This has caused me
to rejoice, has fanned the dying flame of inspira-
tion and caused me to rise and shake off the
dust that might by illness have gathered on
my brain and the first effort is a few lines to
express my thanks to those who have thrown
over me this genial infllittlee. Again I look
at the host of tributes lying before me and I
read prayers for my health and strength long
to continue, for length of days to continue my
loving work,and then—but no, I must not
repeat more of those sweet words, that I hug
to my heart, for praise from such pure, noble,
generous, unsophisticated spirits, make dia-
monds and rubies and priceless gems ot earth,
appear as dust on the balance to my enrap-
tured, grateful and appreciative soul! I entreat
each dear loving sister to take my words and
apply them especially to herself and in return,
I pray and believe that your sweet prayers
will be heard in the Court of Heaven, and
answered upon my head; and I ask for you, my
sisters, similar blessings upon each one of
those dear names that form a halo of love
around my brow. May we meet, if not on
earth, in the glorious eternities that lie before
us, for I feel there is the tie of love and
congeniality around us, that is not of the earth,
earthy. Again accept my grateful thanks and
more, my rich appreciation of the medal of
honor you have so elegantly presented to me
and believe that living or dying I shall "turn
the leaf to read" your sweet appreciation and
loving words.
	Accept the heart and hand of your apprecia-
tive friend and sister,
				HANNAH TAPFIELD KING.
	Salt Lake City, Feb. 19, 1883.


