SCENES IN NAUVOO AFTER THE
MARTYRDOM OF THE PROPHET
AND PATRIARCH.
BY HELEN MAR WHITNEY.
For years our most charming and popular
singer was Brother John Kay, whose name,
it will be remembered, became almost a house-
hold word. His voice, deep and mellow, need-
ed no accompanaiment to fill our halls, and
the powerful and thrilling effect upon the au-
dience when he sang “The Children of Judah”
or “The Sea, the sea, the open sea,” and others
equally charming and melodious, (as well as
some original songs) was such that once heard
could not easily be forgotten. I shall again
have occasion to speak of him as he was one
of the prominent actors in those scenes, and
also after we became wanderers in search of
homes in this far off wilderness, where we had
cause to believe that we should dwell un-
molested to enjoy the privilege of worshiping
the Almighty after' the dictates of our own
consciences.
I must now revert to other scenes, and gath-
er up some broken threads to my narrative
which have been left to give place to other his-
torical incidents. My acquaintance with
Sarah Ann Whitney, eldest daughter of
Bishop N. K. and Elizabeth Ann Whitney,
whose name is mentioned in one of my father's
letters, I began to make in the Spring of 1842.
Though our parents had long been associated,
and we had known each other since the school-
days of Kirtland, but as she was some four years
older than myself, who had entered my teens
but a few months previous, I had never
thought of becoming a companion to her.
I had grown up very fast and my father
often took me out with him and for this reason
was taken to be older than I was. I really
thought it curious that Sarah Ann should take
such a fancy to me. My first introduction
into her circle was at a party given in honor
of her seventeenth birthday, in March, 1842,
in the Masonic room above Joseph Smith’s
store. The latter her father had charge of,
and his family occupied a small house adjoin-
ing it. This was quite a select party. Among
them were the daughters of Elder Rigdon,
Bishop Higbee’s sons, the Miss Pierces, (Mar-
garet Pierce Young being one of them) and
Rachel, Mary and Mary Ann Ivins, the for-
mer, now Rachel Grant, were cousins, with
some of their brothers and many others too
numerous to mention, were among the guests.
The Prophet spent a little time with them, but
took no part. I believe that I was the young-
est and I know that I was the most bashful, so
much so that I declined nearly every invita.
tion to take part in their various games. If
there had been dancing I might have passed
through with a better grace, but dancing was
not so much approved at that time, at least
was not so commonly practiced among the
Saints. Sarah Ann’s brother Horace, who was
twenty months her senior, made one of the
party but had never dreamed of such a thing
as matrimony with me, whom he only remem-
bered in the earliest school days in Kirtland
as occupying one of the lowest seats. He be-
coming enough advanced, soon left the one
taught in the red schoolhouse on the flat
and attended a higher one on the hill, and
through our moving to Missouri and Illinois
we lost sight of each other. After the party
was over I stopped the rest of the night with
Sarah, and as her room and his were adjoin-
ing, being only separated by a partition, our
talk seemed to disturb him, and he was impo-
lite enough to tell us of it, and request us to
stop and let him go to sleep, which was proof
enough that he had never thought of me only
as the green school girl that I was, or he would
certainly have submitted gracefully (as lovers
always should) to be made a martyr of. No
brother and sister could be more affectionately
devoted to each other than were Horace and
Sarah Ann. He had always been to her like
a guardian. This I heard from her mother
previous to our intimacy, and it made an im-
pression upon my mind as being admirable
and praiseworthy in an elder brother. Soon
after this event he was engaged to accompany
Amasa Lyman and others, as clerk, to the
Southern States, where they went to preach
and transact some business for Joseph, and
after a short absence they returned. He was
a printer by trade, and was employed by Don
Carlos Smith until the death of the latter,
whom he loved as dearly as an own brother.
The next Autumn after his return from the
South the Bishop moved his family into a
house on Parley Street, nearer to us. About
a year after her birthday party she invited my
brother and I to attend another small party
which, to me, was very pleasant and far more
enjoyable than the other, there being present
only a few select friends. The Prophet was 
there during the early part of the evening,
and some peculiar remarks which he made, I
remember, gave food for talk and no little
amount of wit which passed from one to the
other after he had left; and William and I
talked it over after we returned home, of the
enjoyable time and the peculiarities of Joseph.
Soon after this, on the 12th of May, 1843,
Horace left for the East to visit his mother’s
parents, who were then living in North
Canaan Co., Connecticut, and other of his con-
nections in Ohio, remaining away over a year.
He and Joseph Kingsbury were in Kirtland
when they heard of Joseph’s and Hyrum’s
death, and they returned to Nauvoo as quickly,
as possible. It was not till the summer after
he had gone East that I learned of the exist-
ence of the plural order of marriage, and that
the Spring of 1842 had seen his sister Sarah
Ann the wife of Joseph Smith. My father
was the first to introduce it to me; which had a
similar effect to a sudden shock of a small
earthquake. When he found (after the first
outburst of displeasure for supposed injury)
that I received it meekly, he took the first op-
portunity to introduce Sarah Ann to me as
Joseph’s wife. This astonished me beyond
measure; but I could then understand a few
things which had previously been to me a
puzzle, and among the rest, the meaning of his
words at her party. I saw, or could imagine,
in some degree, the great trial that she must
have passed through, and that it had required
a mighty struggle to take a'step of that kind,
and had called for a sacrifice, such as few can
realize but those who first rendered obedience
to this law. It was a strange doctrine, and
very dangerous too, to be introduced at such 
a time, when in the midst of the greatest trou-
ble Joseph had ever encountered. The Mis-
sourians and Illinoisians were ready and deter-
mined to destroy him. They could but take
his life, and that he considered a small thing
when compared with the eternal punishment
which he was doomed to suffer if he did not
teach and obey this principle. No earthly in-
ducement could be held forth to the women
who entered this order. It was to be a life-
sacrifice for the sake of an everlasting glory
and exaltation. Sarah Ann took this step of
her own free will, but had to do it unbeknown
to her brother, which greived her most, and
also her mother, that they could not open their
hearts to him. But Joseph feared to disclose it,
believing that the Higbee boys would embitter
Horace against him, as they had already
caused serious trouble, and for this reason he
favored his going East, which Horace was not
slow to accept. He had had some slight sus-
picions that the stories about Joseph were not
all without foundation, but had never told
them, nor did he know the facts till after his
return to Nauvoo, when Sarah hastened to tell
him all. It was no small stumbling-block to
him when learning of the course which had
been taken towards him, which was hard for
him to overlook. But Joseph had always
treated him with the greatest kindness from 
the time that he came to live in his father’s 
house in Kirtland, in fact they had attended 
the same school and studied Hebrew together, I
and had pitched quoits and played ball togeth-
er many a time there and in Nauvoo, and he
could hold nothing against him now he was
dead. Joseph was noted for his child-like love
and familiarity with children, and he never
seemed to feel that he was losing any of his
honor or dignity in doing so. And if he
heard the cry of a child he would rush out of 
the house to see if it was harmed. Sarah
felt when she took this step that it would be
the means of severing her from the happy cir- :
cle in which she had moved as one of their
guiding stars. She was called proud and
somewhat eccentric; but the influence that she
seemed to hold over one was almost magnetic.
I found her incapable of professing anything
which she did not feel, and that she was a most
pure-minded, conscientious and God-fearing
girl. Our friendship dated from that period,
and we became, as much as is possible, like
“the two halves of one soul.”
Bishop Whitney was not a man that readily
accepted of every doctrine, and would ques-
tion the Prophet very closely, upon principles
if not made clear to his understanding. When
Joseph saw that he was doubtful concerning the
righteousness of this celestial order he told
him to go and enquire of the Lord concerning
it, and he should receive a testimony for himself.
The Bishop, with his wife, who had for years
been called Mother Whitney, retired together 
and unitedly besought the Lord for a testi-
mony whether or not this principle was from
Him; and they ever after bore testimony that
they received a manifestation and that it was
so powerful they could not mistake it. The
Bishop never afterwards doubted, and they
willingly gave to him their daughter, which
was the strongest proof that they could possibly
give of their faith and confidence in him as a
true Prophet of God.
The following verses, written about the time
of the death of the Prophet and the gloom
that shrouded the city, are not published be-
cause of their literary merit, but they indicate
a pathos and warm hearted tenderness, and al-
though simple in language, express the love
and good feeling entertained by the members
of the choir and band foreach other, the
reverence in which they held the Prophet, and
their intense love for the City of Nauvoo.
They will be likely to remind many of the
older Latter-day Saints of the scenes in which
they took an active part.


