A VENERABLE WOMAN.
PRESENDIA LATHROP KIMBALL.
[Continued.]
 It is true of women as well as men that
wo reverence greatness in those who lived in
former ages, while we pass by the virtues and
heroism of those around us without notice.
The past is hallowed, to be sure, and we
do well, to revere the great and good who have
lived and labored in former times, but it is
also right and proper to render honor and
praise where ever it is due to merit; and this the
Latter-day Saints should be able to do in a
way that need not be offensive.  It is good to
feel that one’s labors are appreciated, although
the glory of all efforts made to build  up
Zion belongs to the Lord, and should be given
to Him.
 Sister Presendia has been a woman of great
integrity of character and capable of intense
spiritual force, from her first connection with
the Church, consequently manifestations of
power to her through the gifts of tongues, inter-
pretation of tongues and visions has been quite
remarkable.  These blessings have been
scattered over the interval of time from her
coming to Kirtland up to the present and have
helped her to bear with exemplary patience
and heroic fortitude the many trials, deep and
dark, as well as persecutions through which
she has had to pass in this eventful half cen-
tury, for it is now nearly fifty years since she
first believed in the true Gospel.  It is not
possible, nor would it be wise to dwell or
elaborate upon incidents of this kind; those
we have given are sufficient to show that such
gifts are a part of the religion which we have
embraced, and not a myth.
The Huntingtons removed to Missouri, and
Mr. and Mrs. Buell also went up with the
Saints and settled in Washington township.
Clay Co., me. They were living at that place
when Joseph and the brethren were im-
prisoned in Liberty jail, when Sister Presendia
visited them on two different occasions. Wm.
Huntington, the brother of Presendia, was one
who was with the Prophet in that dreadful
prison.  Sister Presendia gives the following
account of her visits, which have only once
been published in the “Women of Mormon-
dom:” “In the month of February, 1839, my
father, with Heber C. Kimball and Alanson
Ripley, came and stayed over night with us, on
their way to visit the Prophet and brethren
in Liberty jail.  I was invited to go with
them.”
“When we arrived at the jail we found a
heavy guard outside and inside the door.  We
were watched very closely, lest we should leave
tools to help the prisoners escape.”
“I took dinner with the brethren in prison;
they were much pleased to see the faces of
true friends; but I cannot describe my feelings
on seeing that man of God there confined in
such a trying time for the Saints, when his
counsel was so much needed.  And we were
obliged to leave them in that horrid,prison,
surrounded by a wicked mob.”
“While in prison, the brethren were present-
ed. with human flesh to eat.  My brother Wm.
Huntington tasted before the word could be
passed from Joseph to him.  It was the flesh
of a colored man.”
“After my second visit to the prison with
Frederick G. Williams, the prophet addressed
to me the following letter.”
“This letter I have preserved as a precious
memento dearer far than gold. It was pub-
lished for the first time in the “Women of
Mormondom.”
“Liberty Jail, March 15th, 1839.
Dear Sister:
“My heart rejoiced at the friendship you
manifested in requesting to have conversation
with us; but the jailer is a very jealous man,
for fear some one will have tools for us to get
out with He is under the eye of the mob
continually and his life is at stake if he grants
us any privilege.  He will not let us converse
with any one alone.
“O! what a joy it would be for us to to see
our friends.  It would have gladdened my heart
to have had the privilege of coming with you;
but the hand of tyranny is upon us; but thanks
be to God it cannot last always; and He that
sitteth in the heavens will laugh at their
calamity and mock when their fear cometh.
	"We feel, dear sister, that our bondage is
not of long duration.  I trust that I shall have
the chance to give such instructions as have
been communicated to us before long; and as
you wanted some instruction from us and also
to give us some information, and administer
some consolation to us, and to find out what is
best for you to do, I think that many of the
brethren, if they will be pretty still, can stay
in this country until the indignation is over
and passed.  But I think it will be better for
Bro. Buell to leave and go with the rest of
the brethren, if he keeps the faith, and at any
rate, for thus speaketh the Spirit concerning
him.  I want him and you to know that I am
your true friend.
“I was glad to see you.  No tongue can tell
what inexpressible joy it gives a man to see
the face of one who has been a friend, after
having been inclosed in the walls of a prison
for five months.  It seems to me my heart
will always be more tender after this than it
was before.
“My heart bleeds continually when I contem-
plate, the distress of the Church.  O that I
could be with them!  I would not shrink at
toil and hardship to render them comfort and
consolation.  I want the blessing once more to
lift my voice in the midst of the Saints, I
would pour out my soul to God for their
instruction.  It has been the plan of the devil
to hamper and distress me from the beginning,
to keep me from explaining myself to them,
and I never have had the opportunity to give
them the plan that God has revealed to me.
Many have run without being sent, crying,
“Tidings, my Lord,” and have caused injury to
the Church, giving the adversary more power
over them that walk by sight and not by faith.
Our trouble will only give us that knowledge to
understand the mind of the ancients.  For my
part I think I never could have felt as I now
do if I had not suffered the wrongs which I
have suffered.  All things shall work together
for good to them that love God.
“Beloved sister, we see that perilous times
have truly come and the things which we
have so long expected have at last began to
usher in; but when you see the fig tree begin
to put forth its leaves, you may know that the
summer is nigh at hand.
“There will be a short work on the earth; it
has now commenced.  I suppose there will
soon be perplexity all over the earth.  Do not
let our hearts faint when these things come
upon us, for they must come or the word can-
not be fulfilled.  I know that something will
soon take place to stir up this generation to
see what they have been doing, and that their
fathers have inherited lies, and they have, been
led captive by the devil to no profit.  But
they know not what they do.  Do not have
any feeling of enmity towards any son or
daughter of Adam.  I believe I shall be let
out of their hands some way or other, and
shall see good days. We cannot do anything,
only stand still and see the salvation of God.
He must do his own work or it must fall to the
ground.  We must not take it in our hands to
avenge our wrongs. “Vengance is mine, saith
the Lord:  I will repay.” I have no fears; I
shall stand unto death, God being ray helper.
“I wanted to communicate something and I
wrote this.  Write to us if you can.
			&c., 			J. SMITH, JR."
	This letter to Sister Presendia will be read
with great interest by the Saints, and all
people must admire the simplicity of expres-
sion and humility so perfectly in harmony
with the character of a true prophet of God,
and so unlike a false prophet or teacher.  A
prisoner in the hands or at the mercy of a
mob who hungered for the blood of the Saints,
his people that he loved better than his own
life, deprived of his counsel under the most
trying circumstances, persecutions on every
hand, yet how nobly he speaks in his letter,
how grand and lofty the sentiments therein set
forth!
To be Continued


If you wish success in life make persever-
ance your bosom friend, experience your
wise counselor, caution your elder brother.
and hope your guardion.
	A young lawyer lately approached David
Davis with a question as formidable as that
Senator's physique—nothing less than might
he pay attention to a young lady of wealth,
Mr. Davis' ward. The decision was reserved
for a day; when rendered as follows it con-
tained a formidable hint: "I cannot give my con-
sent, not because you are poor and depend-
ent upon your profession, but because you
are in the habit of incurring needless debts,
without knowing or caring how you are to
pay them."


