SWEET IS LIBERTY.
"Sweet to us is Liberty, and Bondage odious."

	How appropriate are these words to the peo-
ple of Utah.  How significant at the present
time.  Every one who has in his veins the
blood of freedom must feel keenly the thraldom
and oppression of the enforcement of the Ed-
munds law as interpreted by the Commision-
ers.  The very men and women whose ances-
tors helped to found this great government
and establish republican institutions, to be de-
prived of the franchise without judge or jury,
or any opportunity of defence whatever; such a
policy pursued by those who profess to be ad-
ministrators of law and justice, is sufficient to
make men feel the utmost indignation in their
hearts and to protest strongly against such in-
justice, and exclaim "free we were born," and
there is no power to subdue the free-born soul,
though they may disfranchise and thus punish
men and women for something unknown and
unsubstantiated.  "Kings themselves hold no
dominion over the free will.”
 The people of Utah have rights that ought
to be respected by the general government,
but how has it been?  What aid has been
given to them in settling the great American
Desert?  This is what has been done, to cry out
against them, to beseech Congress to stop their
proselyting, to hinder them from gathering peo-
ple from other nations, seeking to make it an
international question; to take from them every
local position of trust or emolument, so that
they shall have no voice in the disposal of their
own taxes, or any revenue from their own in-
dustries; to put the men who settled this
country and opened up its agriculture and
manufactures under the feet of these who
would despoil them of their worldly possessions
break down their institutions, and deprive them
of every right that a free people are entitled to
enjoy.
	The clamor has been so great and so general,
that without inquiring into the facts, newspa-
pers will publish and republish the most auda-
cious falsehoods against the "Mormons," and if
any are bold enough in the face of public opinion
to defend their cause and tell the truth, they are
immediately assailed and upbraided as having
joined the "Mormon" Church or been bought
over, etc.  Every scheme and cunning plan has
been resorted to, it would seem, to deprive this
people of liberty of conscience, and yet they are
not conquered, much as their enemies have
have conspired against them; though many of
them were not permitted to vote at the last
election.  And because it happened there were
a few women who could take the registration
oath (bad as it was made) and cast a vote for
the man of the people's choice, these would-be-
friends and protectors of women, great in
their own esteem, and loud in their demonstra-
tions of freedom to womankind, set to work to
petition Congress to annul the woman's suf-
frage act passed by the Legislature of Utah.
What nobility of purpose!  How magnanimous! 
How anxious to protect women they must have
been! They excuse themselves by saying,
"these women vote just as their husbands do!"
Well, what of that, if they vote as they wish to?
It sometimes happens that whole families vote
for one man in Massachusetts and in other
States.  Is that a crime?  Not there! In con-
tradiction of the assertions made that wemen
are compelled to vote as the husband does,
we can positively assert that no man ever
asked us a question of this kind, nor have we
ever heard any lady of our acquaintance say
her husband or any other man ever sought to
influence her vote.  Women have their own
free agency in Utah and are quite as indepen-
dent in their opinions as any women on the
face of the earth.  The officials sent here
by the United States government know this
is true.  Moreover, they know that woman
suffrage has worked no evil whatever, and not
one of them can truthfully make an assertion
to that effect.  Yes, women are influenced
to vote by their own ideas of right and justice.
They want men to fill public offices that they
know to be honorable and upright, and not those
who would take from them every vestige of
liberty.  A woman who goes to the polls and
deposits a ballot, feels her political indepen-
dence and that she is virtually part and parcel
of the great body politic, not through her father
or husband, but in her own vested right.  It is
better to represent yourself than to be repre-
sented by another, is most true in this particu-
lar, and applies with quite as much force to the
ballot as upon any other question.  If anything
will give woman a desire to think for herself
and form opinions of her own, and make her
feel the need of informing herself on subjects
connected with the laws and government of her
country and interested in the general welfare,
it will be the practical exercise of the ballot.
	The mother, it is very generally conceded;
forms most essentially the character of her sons
as well as her daughters, and according to her
superiority of endowments, she imparts strength
and force to their capabilities; the im-
portant responsibilities of the ballot will most
certainly add to her attainments and give tone
and balance to her femininity of character, and
thus will she be able to impart to her offspring
thoss requisites and that higher home education
that will help them to reach a higher standard,
and who knows but through the advancement
of women, and their political emancipation,
the laws may be better adjusted and a broader
plane may be reached for all humanity.  At
any rate the experiment is worth trying.
	So far Senator Edmunds has not succeeded in
debarring the women of Utah of their franchise,
although he and others sought to deprive them
of this inestimable privilege.  One would think
Judge Black's logical and magnificent argument
for Utah ought to have put an end to this ever
recurring quibble, whether "Mormons" should
be tolerated or not, on account of their religious
belief; but although the Judge is a most learn-
ed and able lawyer, yet many people will not
listen even to the soundest argument, because
their prejudice is so great.  They do not com-
prehend liberty for all people of whatever creed
or nation, vouchsafed by the Constitution, nor
that Congress shall make no law abridging re-
ligious liberty.  Judge Black's argument com-
mends itself and will certainly be read with
great interest by the honest and intelligent
who are not blinded by bigotry and a desire to
crush the "Mormons."  Those who voted for
the passage of the Edmund's bill perhaps were
not aware that they were striking a deadly
blow to religious liberty in the United
States, To pursue the policy towards this peo-
ple that the anti-Mormons recommend would
be to change the laws and ordinances of the
local government, and overrule and tread under
foot law and order as maintained heretofore,
once the pride and boast of this beautiful and
quiet city, and arrogate to themselves every
vestige of the power of office and make the peo-
ple of Utah a set of serfs and vassals.
 But there is still some power vested in the
people of Utah, they are not all disfranchised
and they appreciate the meaning of the word
liberty, and they are undoubtedly capable of
maintaining the rights of freemen.  They know
they have the right on their side, and God and
the right are a great majority.  Honor to Judge
Black and all such noble minded men, who
dare stand up boldly and plead the cause of the
weak and down-trodden.


