WILL PASS AWAY.

	There has been nothing of late said upon
this subject, although the extreme of fashion
is carried out by this people called the Latter-
day Saints; and in my way of thinking, death
is in its path. Mothers in Israel, I will make
an appeal to your reason: Do you not know
that you are sowing the seeds of dissolution in


[Column 1]
your little daughters by making their dresses
too short and narrow to keep them warm, and
exposing them to the cold? Would you rather
follow in the vortex of fashion than have a
healthy, rosy-cheeked child, full of life and
glee? Shall we be ever learning and never be
able to come to a knowledge of the truth?
	Where should the spirit of discernment and
wisdom be found if not in the mothers of Lat-
ter-day Saint children? Why are we blind
and ignorant? And why will we follow in the
world's path to fashion? Do we not compre-
hend truth enough to lead to common sense
practices, and dress our children according to
what is for their good, and what is right? But
no, corsets must be put on our little girls to
teach them to lace their bodies to grow un-
natural. If we expect to have the spirit taber-
nacled in the body, we ought to take a course
to make its house of clay warm and tenantable,
and also comfortable, to prepare it for future
usefulness and longevity; and take a course to
better the condition of the generation in which
we live. Mothers, wives of men who hold the
keys to unlock the mysteries of eternity, why
do we not comprehend the purposes of God
concerning us, that our posterity should grow
up as calves of the stall, perfectly developed,
fit subjects to carry out the great designs of
our Heavenly Father, to bring forth those
noble spirits reserved to hold the holy Priest-
hood. In consideration of these things should
we be carried away by the fashions of a
wicked world? It seems as though every thing
that is made to put on the body is made for
its destruction; shoes have to be made to the
fashion, the heel not set where it should be,
nor wide enough to stand on; the ankle is
twisted around, and sometimes almost dislocat-
ed; then another folly is invented, making
shoe tops so high, and lacing up the feet so
tight there is no chance for circulation or the
air to get to the feet, which is quite necessary
for health; this is Chinese fashion, to bind
up the feet, do we want to be stunted like
them? I will change the old maxim; give the
feet plently of air and keep them dry, and the
head from cold, a cold generally commences
in the head first, and then goes to the lungs.
	Teething children take cold from too much
cold air passing into their ears, causing many
serious complaints. Mothers, put a thin cap
on their heads until their heads are covered
with sufficient hair, and line their bibs with
flannel when they drool; and change often that
their vitals do not get chilled; do not put shoes
on them but socks with soles; by observing
these rules in dress you may save your child
pain and suffering. Dress your little girls
with waists, and let the weight be upon their
shoulders and not on the hips, which is injuri-
ous; dress your bodies for comfort, and to
promote health.
	Let us reason a little on the way we dress
our feet; boots for men, and high shoes for
women are very unhealthy; they confine stag-
nated air and dampness; slippers are best for
the house, with a thick, warm stocking, but as
men and boys have to be in the wet it shrinks
the leather; there should be elastic on the
top of the instep, to give more room to the
foot, and make it easier to pull on and get off.
	And you shoemakers, do, I beseech you,
put an inside sole in boots and shoes to cover
up those persecutors, nails and pegs. In win-
ter they are cold, and in summer, hot and very
uncomfortable to walk on all day. My little
grandson told me to look at his foot as he
held it up, his boot hurt him so bad he had ot
take it off, there was quite a sore place on the
bottom of his foot where a nail had run into
it. He said "it hurt him," I did not wonder
that it did when I felt into his boot, for such
a rough made thing to put on those little
tender feet, made me feel sorry, and I almost
wished that I were a shoemaker. I thought I

[Column 2]
would put some leather between the nails
and the foot, instead of on the top where it
did no good. The highest recommendation
for any trade, is to make an article well for
looks, ease, and comfort. If we support trade,
why not say how things should be made, in-
dependent of fashion?		M. A. M. P.


