[COLUMN 1]
		A SERMON ON CANVAS.
	One of the most eloquent sermons we have
ever experienced, and certainly one of the most
marvelous ever preached through the medium
of the painter's art, is on exhibition at the Dore
Gallery, 35, New Bond Street, London. We refer
to the mammoth painting by M. Gustave Dore,
entitled "Christ leaving the Praetorium," al-
ready celebrated in Europe and America, and
pronounced by competent critics to be the  most
wonderful production of palette and brush
which the present age can boast. It was exe
cuted in Paris, fron 1867 to 1872, but as the work
was not uninterrupted, it can scarcely be said
to have occupied that period in painting. As
a matter of fact, the time expended on it was
less than three years. It was in a forward but
unfinished state at the beginning of the Franco-
German war, and during the siege of Paris lay
carefully folded up and hidden away in the
earth, to preserve it from injury by shot and
shell or other impending casualties. At the
close of the bloody and ruinous strife it was
resurrected and brought forth from its fiery bap-
tism and burial, and, as if still further a figure
and type of the Divine character it portrays,
perfected and placed on high to elicit the won-
der and admiration of the world.
	The first, though far from most important
feature which strikes the beholder of this beau-
tiful and sublime specimen of art, is its immen-
sity. The canvas containing it is no less than
twenty feet in height by thirty in width, and
takes up one entire side of the Gallery. The 
figures covering it, of which there is a veritable 
multitude, are life size, and so strikingly life-
like, that at first sight they seem to be actually
moving about upon the canvas, thus investing
the picture with an inexpressible charm while
clothing it in all its fearful reality. The subject
is explained by the title—“Christ leaving the
Praetorium," the artist having chosen for the
theme of his masterpiece that thrilling episode
in the history of our blessed Redeemer, where
He, after being tried and condemned before
Pilate, is descending the steep stairway leading
from the Praetorium or Hall of Judgment on
His way to Golgotha, the scene of the cruci-
fixion.
	The figure of Christ, to use the language of
the writer of an excellent critique on this cele-
brated picture, "is nothing short of an inspira-

