EDITOR EXPONENT:

	We had a very enjoyable time on the 15th
of Feb., it being the monthly meeting of the
Relief Society. The teachers and members of
the same got up a party in our new meeting
house for President Standring, to welcome her
home; she, with her husband, was called to
St. George to work in the Temple, and they
had been absent five months. She was es-
corted to the Hall by her Counselors, Mrs. M.
P. Thomas and M. J. Powell; arriving there,
what was her surprise to see about seventy-five
of the sisters assembled and the tables set
with the bounties of the earth. When they
were all seated, Bishop T. R. Cutler said he
wished in behalf of the sisters of the Relief


Society to present President Standring with
a black silk dress pattern and trimmings, as
a token of love and respect which they felt
towards her and appreciation of her labors
amongst them. After dinner President Stand-
ring spoke a short time, expressing her sur-
prise and returning thanks for the good will
which had been manifested towards her by the
sisters, also gave a short account of her labors
in the Temple, and how she had enjoyed them.
Bros. Winn, Anderson, Yates, Bishop T. R.
Cutler and Mrs. M. P. Thomas made some ex-
cellent remarks. Meeting was dismissed by
Bro. Anderson, and all went home feeling that
it had indeed been a feast of fat things, both
spiritually and socially, and one that will not
soon be forgotten by those who attended.
	M. A. STANDRING, Secretary, R. S., Lehi.


[Column 1]
EXTRACTS.
LETTER TO MRS. H. M. WHITNEY.
			Kirtland, Ohio, Jan. 28th, 1883.
	My dear Helen: *  *  *  It is not likely
you have heard of the great change that
has come to our household. For the first time
“the mystic gate” has opened for one of our
number to enter the unknown realm, and my
dear mother* has passed on ’before us. How
can I tell you of the glorious change? We
had not expected it for months yet; I saw for
some three or four days that she was sicker
than usual.  *  *  I say it was a “glorious”
change! She had been up and we were just lay-
ing her down, and she said, “lay my head this
way,” while the pillows were being arranged
we saw the expression of pain and suffering
and unrest, she had worn for so many years,
changed to one of sweet calmness and repose.
There was simply a cessation of breathing, 
without a gasp or motion. Oh, in that mo-
ment, when I saw her dear life going out!
*  *  How I wish you could have seen here.
She looked more like the mother of long ago
than she had for years; she longed, oh, so 
much, for this release; and we can not wish
her back, for we believe she is “better now,”
as I feel is true of all the countless dead.
It was her 79th birthday and it was Sabbath
evening—the hour of retiring to rest. We
kept her till Thursday.  *  * * She always
expressed a fear of being buried alive. I
have felt as though her death should be pub-
lished in the papers there, as there are so
many scattered through Utah who once knew
her here. I do not know where to address
Adelia and many others. There were three
of her six children here at the burial, but I
was the only child who had the privilege
of witnessing her last moments. Oh, I am so
glad and grateful that I was here! It was a
beautiful death-scene, that would have to be
seen to be realized. But, alas, my dear Helen,
the thought is with me that of her present
condition we may know nothing; I feel the
poverty of the situation, and could wish my-
self as rich in faith as you are. *  *  Will
I ever attain to it?  *  *  You are too kind
and thoughtful of me to send papers so often.
*  *  I  thank you and appreciate your
kindness. Was glad to see you were going to
put in pamphlet form what you know of the
introduction of Polygamy. I would like one
of them. * * Had you heard that the
April Conference of the Re-organized Church
was to be held in the Temple here? They
have commenced to repair and restore it; but
where are those who once thronged its courts?
	Father is past 85, but is very well for one
of his age. Eveline lives in Iowa, thinks of
coming to see us, but her health is very poor.
Her husband is President of the Bank at
Mapleton. Eber is in Florida, Milton in
	*Charlotte E. Bond.

[Column 2]
Michigan, and Myron in Boston.  *  * Did
you know that a son and grandson of Brigham
Young called on us last summer? The grand-
son had just graduated at West Point.  * *
Don't you think Brigham's son looks ever so
much like his father? I wish I could see him
again; I "fell (woman like) in love" with
him. You were with me when mother was
baptised by Brigham Young at the back of 
your house in Mendon. Do you remember it?
How is Bates Nobles? Do you ever see him?
Are you ever coming East? When is your
son Orson coming home? I hope you will
write me when you can and as oft. I am
very poorly much of the time, but yet do a
great deal of work.
				Yours with love,
