THE FIRST FEMALE NOVELIST.—We hard-
ly read of a single authoress during the
Middle Ages. In those days female educa-
tion was almost entirely neglected, except
in rare instances. If women possessed talent,
they were compelled to hide it. No
female novelist worthy of the name ap-
peared in England until the reign of George
III. The lady who first had the courage
to brave public opinion was Frances Burney,
the friend of Garrick and Dr. Johnson.
Miss Burney remained unmarried until she
was nearly forty years of age. Romance is
then supposed to exercise a less dominant
power, but she, nevertheless, had the impru-
dence to espouse Monsieur d’Arblay, a
French refugee, whose income consisted only
of a precarious annuity of £100. The
marriage however, proved a very happy one.
Macaulay describes Monsieur as an "honorable
and amiable man, with a handsome person,
frank, soldier-like manners, and some taste for
letters." The pair did not suffer from pov-
erty; the wife became the bread winner; and
not very long after her marriage her third
novel, "Camilla," was published, by which
she is said to have realized over 3,000
guineas.—Home Journal.


TRUE MANLINESS.—Every young man con-
siders it high praise to be called a "manly
fellow;" and yet how many false ideas
there are of manliness?
	Physical strength is not the test. Samson
was endowed with tremendous bodily powers.
He was a grand specimen of humanity. See
him rending the lion as he would a kid,
or carrying away the gates of Gaza! But
he was a weak creature after all, unable
to resist the wiles of an artful woman.
	Great intellect is not the test of true
manhood. Some of the most intellectual
men who have ever lived were not manly.
Lord Francis Bacon was a prodigy of in-
tellect. The sciences sat at his feet, extolling
him as their benefactor; yet we see him led
down Tower Hill, a prisoner, for swindling.
	Fast living is not true manliness. Some
men think that to strut, and puff, and
swear is to be manly. To some the es-
sentials of manliness are to "toss off their
glass like a man," "spend money freely
like a man," "smoke like a man," "drive
a fast horse like a man," forgetting that
virtue is true manliness. Temperance,
chastity truthfulness, fortitude, and benevo-
lence are the characteristics and essential,
of manliness.
	To be manly is to be honest, generous,
brave, noble and pure in speech and life.
The highest form of manliness is godliness.
Some one has said, "an honest man is the
noblest work of God," but the man who is
honest toward God and toward his fellow-
man—in short a Christian man—is the
noblest work of God.—John B. Gough


"So you are going to keep a school?” said
a young lady to her maid aunt. “Well, for
my part, sooner than do that I would marry a
widower with nine children.” “I would prefer
that myself,” was  the quiet reply, “but where
is the widower?”


