[COLUMN 3]
by the protended spears of the Roman soldiery,
engaged in clearing the path towards Calvary.
The balconies and high places on either hand
are also filled with excited faces and swaying
forms, bent forward in attitudes of the in-
tensest interest. At the foot of the stairs are
the huge forms of the malefactors lifting up the
heavy wooden cross which is about to be placed
upon the delicate shoulders of Him who in
that shameful burden bore the sins of a fallen
world. To the left of the picture, a little way
from the bottom of the steps, pressed back by
the spear shafts of the unfeeling soldiers, and
hemmed in by the [------] crowd, appear two
female forms, one of them pale and delicate,
though very beautiful, arrayed in blue and
white, whose sad face, sinking frame, downcast
eyes and sweet and silent expression of sorrow,
touching enough to melt the heart even of a
stone and to fill the eyes of all who behold her
with tears, contrast strangely with the wild
and vehement grief of her companion, who,
throwing up her hands and uttering a despair
ing cry, sinks down upon the ground where
she is in momentary danger of being trodden
under food by the heedless and howling multi-
tude. The first is Mary, the Virgin Mother,
through whose tender soul the prophetic sword
is even now piercing, but who has braved the
agony of the ordeal and dared the danger of
the occasion, to obtain a passing farewell
glimpse of Him who is her soul's idol, the be-
loved Being to whom, but three and thirty years
before, she had given mortal birth. Her com-
panion is Mary Magdalene.
	On all sides gleam the distorted visages of the
rabble, their eyes glistening with hatred and 
their tongues uttering execrations. One can
almost hear the shouts of "Crucify him! Cruci-
fy him!" swelling up from their maddened
throats. Here and there amid the throng may
be picked out faces that suggest for their
owners members of the Apostolic Twelve, sad,
silent and non-committal, the trembling victims
of human hope and fear. More than half way
up the steps, a little in the rear and to the left of
the Savior, stands a group of three persons,
richly appareled in sacerdotal robes, with
haughtiness of mien and malignant triumph
stamped on every feature. In the foremost of 
these we recognize Caiaphas the High Priest,
and in the others, one bent with age and the
other more youthful, his no less cruel and envi-
ous kinsmen and associates-Annas and Alex-
ander.
	But there is one face, in all that motley
throng, upon which it is fearful to gaze.
Second only to that of Christ in power of attrac-
tion, though for a far different reason, and so
hideous of aspect as to send a shudder through
the soul of the spectator, what shall we say,
what can we say of the countenance of Judas,
the accursed! Half hidden by the crowd, yet
plainly conspicuous from the position he holds,
not daring to see or be seen by Him whom his
polluting kiss betrayed, wistful to fly yet power-
less to move, and feeling, notwithstanding his
concealment, that the all-searching eye of the
Master is even now reading the secret thoughts
of his heart, he stands as if riveted to the spot
by the conscious horror of his crime, glaring
gloomily askance from behind the green'sh cowl
which lends additional repulsiveness to his
features, and quailing like a coward at some in-
visible fo[-], endeavoring in vain to quiet the
pangs of conscience which are darting like poi-
soned arrows through his soul. It is indeed a 
fearful sight. The quintessence of horror and
remorse! Perdition personified! Hell in one
human countenance! Awful even to gaze at,
what must it have been to endure! As we
stand spell-bound before that terrible picture of
misery and guilt, our sympathy for the con-


demned Savior is turned into pity for the
wretch who betrayed Him. And well may he
be pitied. No man need suffer hell who looks
and feels as that man does. No wonder the
Son of God could commiserate his murderers,
and invoke the clemency of heaven upon the
ignorant, unthinking rabble who clamored for
his sacrifice. “Father forgive them, for they
know not what they do!" But for Judas the
apostate, the betrayer of his brethren, the shed-
der of innocent blood, the wi ful sinner against
light and knowledge, what remaineth for him?
Alas! nothing, nothing but that “certain fear-
ful looking for of judgment and fiery indigna-
tion” that shall devour the adversary and his
dupes. Go thy way, thou doomed and desolate
soul! Hide thy vi[-]age in the tomb where
sleep forever all hopes of thy redemption.
Thou hast betrayed the innocent blood, thou
hast sold the Lord of life unto death, and writ-
ten in a hand of fire damnation upon every 
lineament of thy existence. Go thy way, thou
scorched and blasted being, but think not to
escape thy visitation, for though thy body turn
to dust, and earth that shall curse thy name
would fain repudiate thy memory, yet thy
spirit shall live on, live on in endless torment,
where the worm that dieth not and the fire
that cannot be quenched shall inflict upon thee
the terrors of that dreadful, but for thee merit-
ed punishment, the end of which no man
knoweth.
 In the dim perspective, near the portals of
the Hall of Judgment, having the statue of
C[-]sar and an in erior view of Jerusalem in the
background, are outlined the forms of Pilate,
the Roman governor, and Herod, the tetrach
of Galilee, who “were made friends together”
that same day, the former, distinguished
through the gathering darkness by his long
red toga, appearing by his attitude and g[-]sture
to disclaim all responsibility for the tragedy
then being enacted—the “judicial murder” of
the sinle[-]s Son of God. There are various
other features, though we have mentioned the
main ones, of this remarkable creation,
which lack of time and limited space pre-
clude from notice, and which, like all the rest,
are only to b[-] appreciated by being seen.
“Christ leaving the Pr[-]torium” is a master-
piece, both of conception and execution, a ser-
mon to whose silent eloquence the dullest ear
could not listen in va[-]n. M. Dor[-] has numer-
ous paintings, all of them excellent, and many
magnificent, but the one we have attempted
to describe is undoubtedly the crowning effort
of his life, eclipsing by its sunlike splendor
the brightest of its rivals, and compelling
them to shine with the subdued radiance of
its [-]atellites.


