EDITORIAL NOTES.

	THE Women’s Conference of this Stake of
Zion will be held in the 14th, Ward in this
City, on Friday and Saturday, 9th and 10th inst.
commencing at 10 a.m. and 2 p.m. each day.
The Relief Society will convene on Friday and
a full attendance is particularly requested.
On Saturday morning the Primary Conference
will be held probably in the Salt Lake As-
sembly Hall. Saturday Afternoon will be
the Conference of the Y. L. M. I. A. It is
expected the officers of these several organiza-
tions will interest themselves in circulating
notice of the Conference, that every society
and association may be well represented by
its members. Secretaries should be prompt in
sending in their reports.

	WE have received, by courtesy of the author,
a copy of "The Life of Nephi," recently
issued from the office of the JUVENILE IN-
STRUCTOR. It is the ninth book of the Faith
Promoting series, and is quite as good, if not
the best of them all; it is written in the
peculiarly original style of the author, Bro.
George Q. Cannon. It will give the young
reader most excellent ideas of the character
and life of the great and good prophet Nephi.
His example is one worthy of emulation by
the young of this generation. This book will
be a most important one in the libraries of
the young people. To read such books will
enrich the mind, and strengthen all the
faculties that are calculated to make the
character noble and exalted. Good reading is
one of the delicate luxuries our young people
should indulge in, but they cannot be too
careful in the choice of books; parents can-
not be too particular in selecting reading
matter, there is great danger to the young
in reading as well as in association, and to
allow a child to read everything is to allow
the mind to grow up to weeds of the rankest
character that are likely to choke out all the
beautiful germs that always require care in
their training. "The Life of Nephi" contains
100 pages and is for sale at the office of the
JUVENILE, price 25 cts. It ought to have a
wide circulation, the merits of the book de-
mand it. Such sketches written will be likely
to encourage the reading of the Book of
Mormon which is sadly neglected by many.


