[COLUMN 2]
tion." We have never before seen a portrait of
the Savior—and we have seen many styles,
both ancient and modern—which came any 
where near suggesting, in our opinion, a correct
or consistent idea of Him who died that man
might live. All other artists, whose ideals we
have examined, in their over anxiety to make
him appear beautiful, have simply rendered
him effeminate, and in nearly all paintings
descriptive of his Passion, in order to depict the
intensity of his sufferings, have imparted to
the countenance an expression of despair and
pain as undignified as it is ordinary and repul-
sive. The e fe tures, together with the stereo-
typed corons, blazing halo or moonlight back-
ground for the head, as unsightly and unnatural
as the feathered wings given to this day by
Christian limners to their angels and immortals,
have invariably spoiled, for our taste, every
pictorial representation containing them. But
Do e, with the characteristic daring of true
genius, has departed entirely from these tradi-
tional customs and given us in this sublime
creation—the spirit of a God in the body of a
mortal man—something that we can truly feel
approaches the inimitable likeness of One who
was indeed fairer and gentler, but at the same
time mightier and more powerful than all the
sons of men. Even the time-honored scarlet
robe is dispensed with, and in its stead the god-
like form of the noble Sufferer, full of grace, of
gentleness and unassuming dignity, is arrayed
in a garment as white as the purity of Him
who wears it. The head is crowned with thorns,
from every barb of which, buried deeply in the
brow it encircles, trickles a tiny rivulet of blood,
not far enough to disfigure the heavenly beauty
of the face beneath, but enhancing its calm and
patient expression, and imparting to it such a
vivid phase of reality that instinctively our
hands go up to our own foreheads as if to re-
lieve by counter pressure the cruel anguish of
the uncomplaining Martyr whose sublime suf-
fering we behold. The hair and beard of the
Savior are of a sunny auburn, and interweaving
the tresses that fall gracefully upon his shoul-
ders, course streams of deeper scarlet from the
wounded brow above. The eye has a wonder-
ful expression. Full of anguish softened by pa-
tience, and of holy indignation kept down by a 
compassion more divine. There is no weakness
in that look. It is the face of manhood, of
Godhood in distress. No petty anger gleams
in that celestial eye, but from its wondrous
depths the soft rays of pity shed their lustre
like the stars. It is the look of a martyr going
willingly to his grave, the aspect of a King, all-
conscious of the power he could wield, but un-
willing to exercise it for his own preservation or
the punishment of his persecutors. Around
the head plays a delicate halo, so soft and sub-
dued as to be all but unnoticeable, not as if put
there by the painter's hand, but as if emanat-
ing from the face itself, or as if the cloud-
hung skies, already dark with the impending
shadows of Divine displeasure, had rifted 
sufficiently to send forth a single ray of light
on the sorrow-bowed head of the mighty Suffer-
er, and while the dove-like sign of the Holy 
Ghost descended upon him, the voice of the
Eternal Father was again heard whispering:
"This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well 
pleased."
	The Savior, for the moment, is standing
alone, freed by the repellant force of his own
majesty, from the desecrating touch of those
who are thirsting and clamoring for his blood
The broad flight of steps down which He is
slowly wending his way, is besieged on both
sides by the excited populace, frantically eager
to catch a glance at or gloat insultingly over the 
downfall of the despised Nazarene, and only 
restrained from offering violence to his person

