		A REMONSTRANCE.

"The heart knoweth its own bitter and a stranger
		comprehendeth it not."

How can a stranger in their griefs take part,—
	Whose greatest trouble can be least explained?
How can a stranger soothe the aching heart,—
	Whose sorrows must be silently sustained?

How can the sensitive, the fond, the true—
	To whom the waves of woe full often come—
Strip, their loved idols for the public view,
	Or tell the griefs, whose weight doth make them
		dumb?

Oh! who can understand their keenest woe,—
Whose love or pride must needs withhold the key?
The links of life are complicated so,
	That truest lives oft seem a mystery.

Uncomprehended, often disapproved,—
	Brave, sterling souls such weighty crosses bear;
Alike by censure or by praise unmoved—
	Upward they climb beneath their load of care.

Not deigning e’en to cast their burdens down,
	Lest, on more helpless ones the load should fall;
Thus they endure the censure or the frown
	Of those at ease who claim to know it all.

Hail! Dauntless hearts, too pr[--]d to e’en disclose
	Your griefs to those who comprehend  [-]hem not;
Stlll struggle upward, for your Father, [---] ws
	The bitterness of each appointed lot.

Still struggle upward, for the gates of heaven
	To suffering souls are near, and open wide;
Through pain made perfect, are the noblest, even
	As was our Captain, Christ the Crucified!
				EMILY HILL WOODMANSEE.
Salt Lake City.


[Column 1]
﻿THE ART GALLERIES AND MU-
	SEUMS OP VIENNA.
			______
	Vienna is in itself a storehouse filled
with the treasures gathered by the patience
and industry of many generations. The
Upper Belvedere contains one of the finest galler-
ies of pictures in Europe. The arrangement is
excellent. The saloons in which the differ-
ent schools of painting, are placed are
readily found. Each picture is distinctly
marked with  the artist's name and the
date of its execution. This simple, yet
definite, disposition of the paintings is a
great satisfaction to the tourist, whether his
time be limited or not. The ease with
which the particular object sought can be
found, enhances very much one's enjoyment
of it. These large galleries are always fa-
tiguing. The greater our  interest, the
greater our weariness. The pictures, if
carefully examined, tax the mental powers,
and the eyes, more than all things else.
The effort to follow  out the details of
his thought, as it stands on the canvas
before one, glowing in the colors placed
there by the hand of genius, must always
be exhaustive to the mind of ordinary
mortal.
	When the colors grow dim to our mor-
tal eyes, and the stories they are intended
to tell seem incomprehensible or confused,
we leave them for a time, and go away
to the more quiet colorless marble, and find
relief for the eyes and a partial rest for
the brain. The statue generally tells its

[Column 2]
story in more simple fashion than the canvas
or the ceiling.
	The Italian painters have ample room ac-
corded them at the Belvedere, the Venetians
holding the largest place. Tintoretto and
Titian seem like cordial friends as you
meet them just beyond the threshold.
Palma Vecchio's "Madonna" would suffice
one for an entire day's pleasure, if one
were only at liberty to take these wonderful
things in some homoepathic way, instead of
crowding one grand thing upon another,
and then packing the day's experience into
our minds after the manner that we put
all we can into our trunks for transportation.
Rubens holds a large place in this large
gallery. His "Ignatius Loyolo" and the
preaching of St. Francis Xavier are thought
by critics to be among the finest of his
works.
	The Lower Belvedere is a separate build-
ing standing quite a little distance from
the picture gallery. In the lower building
are gathered antiques - the Egyptian antiqui-
ties and the famous Ambras collection. The
treasures found here were originally collected
by Archduke Ferdinand of the Tyrol, and
placed by him in Schloss Ambras, the old
castle on the Mittelgeberge, near Innsbruck,
made memorable as the home of Philippina,
the beautiful daughter of a banker of
Augsburg, whom the Count of Tyrol married
for love, much to the displeasure of the
aristocratic old Emperor.
	The valuable relics of the grand battles
and knights of the days which are very
far gone into the past, were taken to
Vienna in 1856, much to the indignation
of the people of Innsbruck and the Tyrol,
who felt they were the rightful custodians
of these treasures. The equestrian portion
is particularly valuable, and of great inter-
est to the student of history. Some of it
belonged to the Hapsburg family; a part of
it antedates their reign, while many of the
articles are trophies of their prowess in
battle. Fire-arms, sabres and swords are
gathered in one department. Valuable speci-
mens of embroidery on sacerdotal robes fill
quite a space. The old heroes of the past
do not seem so very far away when you
may stretch out your hand and touch their
garments or their weapons. The battle-axe of
Montezuma, and the quiver of Kara Mustaph,
would quicken the blood of the most stolid.
Ancient vases, bronzes, metallic vessels and
curiosities found in the Tyrol, go to make
up the sum of this most interesting and valu-
able collection. Portraits of the notables of
old, including the beautiful Philippina and
the Archduke Ferdinand, adorn the walls.
	Austrians and Germans have no lack of ma-
terial wherewith to stock a museum of weap-
ons. We of a younger country, which as
yet has had no time for avoidable disputes
and battles, are being continually surprised by
these warlike chroniclers of the fighting past
of Europe. We find page after page of his-
tory in simple contemplation of these articles.
The Waffen Museum, one of the finest build-
ings in the city, is a rich combination of the
Moorish and Romanesque styles. The vesti-
bule and staircase are more than ordinarily
fine. This structure is set aside for the im-
perial collection of weapons, a large and in-
teresting assortment of armor and arms be-

[Column 3]
longing to emperors and knights, kings and
counts, whose lives have been in some way
identified with the history of Austria.
	The Imperial Arsenal in the old part of
the city contains a splendid armory. Several
thousand men are constantly employed here.
Many of them are engaged in manufacturing
arms, with which the Austrian soldiers of
to-day hope to make their names as famous
as their ancestors did in the days which are
gone. The walls of the great court of the
armory are festooned with the huge chain
which Solyman the Magnificent caused the
Turks who fought under him to throw across
the Danube at Buda. Among the treasures of
this arsenal may be seen the armor of Sobieski,
and a coat worn by Gustavus Adolphus at the
battle of Lutzen. A standard captured from
Mohammed IV, by Sobieski, during the de-
fence of Vienna, is one of the curiosities.
	Never did a city so stimulate one to active
efforts to secure its sights and shows, and in no
place has the weather been a greater detriment
to the desires of our heart than here. If one
could imbibe through the pores anything but
colds, rheumatism or malaria, here would seem
to be the place for such an accomplishment.
Eyes and ears do not take in enough at a time
of what we find here to satisfy our thirst for
what we know is in this city. The value of
its collections is a constant matter of surprise
to us. Its educational institutions are well
endowed, and number among them a universi-
ty, an academy of fine arts, a polytechnic in-
stitution, a school of astronomy, and a con-
servatory of music. In hospitals, asylums,
and benevolent institutions, few, if any, cities
can outrank this Austrian capital. Its libra-
ries are well filled with valuable books, its
schools are full, and beggars are seldom if ever
seen in its streets. Its population seems cheer-
ful and happy. Its coffee-houses and club
rooms find abundant customers. Its theatres
are never without patronage nor its promenades
without pedestrians, when the weather will
admit of out-of-door exercise. - RUTH RANDOM,
in American Sentry.


