Patchwork Quilts by Alice Whitson Norton 585
The Making and Use of Decorative Candles by Mary Grant Judd 600
Edith Bunn Makes Unique Wagon-Wheel Rugs by Mirinda Knapp 602
Wastebaskets Where You Want Them by Rachel K. Laurgaard 604
Theology: "Continuation of the Perean and Judean Ministry" by Don B. Colton 633
Visiting Teacher Messages: "These Things I Have Spoken Unto You" by Mary Grant Judd 638
Work Meeting—Sewing: Children's Clothing by Jean Ridges Jennings 639
Literature: The Poet Shakespeare by Briant S. Jacobs 640
Poplar Magic—Frontispiece by Ruth Harwood 579
Tranquility by Celia Van Cott 585
Autumn Winds by Dorothy J. Roberts 585
Autumn by Margaret B. Shomaker 586
That He May Know by LeRoy Burke Meagher 590
Song by Sylvia Probst Young 595
The Heart by Essie M. Robinson 601
Marriage by Grace Sayre 604
Blue Hills by Helen Gee Woods 607
Reprint of Shakespeare's Sonnet 73 626
Interval by Evelyn Fjeldsted 637
A Friend Like You by Hilde Wittemund 647
My Valley by Jeanette P. Parry 647
PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741: Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $1.50 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, l5c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, givng both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicted. Manyscripts. A Black. Size "oii Willard Luce POPLAR TREES ar
THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL. 36, NO. 9 SEPTEMBER 1949 Poplar Magic Ruth Harwood One tall golden taper of a poplar tree in autumn! With sudden magic, the long years vanish And I am once more in my own loved homeland, In the valley of the high, snow-covered mountains, Clear blue at morming and glowing roseate with sunset. Honeysuckle, delicate, sweet fragrance of remembering, Swaying goldenglow, tall banks of jt. Now blooming, And evening ptimroses, with dusk dreams soft around them. Oh, all beloved flowers are blooming here together In the gracious tender season of the heart's remembering! Rich treasures to behold through the magic portal Of one tall golden taper of a poplar tree in autumn! The Cover: The Mormon Handicraft Shop, Photograph by Hal Rumel. The Mormon Handicraft Shop Ethel C. Smith Member, General Board of Relief Society THE beautiful new face of the Mormon Handicraft Shop smiles a welcome from the front cover of this Magazine, and bids us enter through its wide, sparkling glass door. Come in with me and see its newly decorated interior and the lovely handmade articles that can be glimpsed through the modem windows. As the door closes noiselessly behind us, we find ourselves surrounded by exquisite handwork of all descriptions. The soft, warm tones of rose and green on the walls and ceiling make a perfect background for the displays on the center tables and in the shelves and cases lining each side of the room. If it is your first visit to this unique store, I know you are wondering where all of these beautiful articles came from and why they are being sold hcre. So, before we make our tour of the shop, let me tell you what the Mormon Courtesy The Deseret News Eye-catching arrangements of gaily colored pot holders, hot pads, tea towels, monogrammed beach bags, lamps, and dolls of many kinds. One popular item in this display is a set of hot pads made by a young man who is bedfast and unable to move from his back. By means of a mirror suspended above the bed, he weaves these attractive pads, thus bringing to himself a small income as well as the joy and satisfaction of accomplishment. Page 580 THE MORMON HANDICRAFT SHOP Hale Renvel 581 -_ = 4 th & € ey: ve i%. I Aw. A eos Oo) whi s. A center display of lovely baby things—a snow-white blanket of feathery softness, every thread of which is woven by hand; a pale pink and blue crib quilt with hundreds of unbelievably tiny stitches nestling among its folds to outline a dainty pattern. There are dresses and bonnets for girl babies, rompers and visored caps for boy babies; and bibs and bootees of all descriptions. Many of the beautiful crocheted articles for babies sold through the shop are made by an elderly woman, who relives, with each one she makes, the joy she had with her own babies, at the same time she is helping to maintain herself financially. Handicraft Shop is, why it was started, and how it operates. The Mormon Handicraft Shop is a medium through which those persons having skill in the handicraft arts may offer their work for sale, and where others, desiring to beautify their homes, or seeking gifts for the enjoyment of friends, may purchase such art work. It stands as a symbol of the compassion and love carried in the heart of a beloved general president of Relief Society for those women affected by the depression of the "thirties." It is a monument to the culture and industry of our pioneer grandmothers, whose skills and crafts have been preserved throughout the years in Latter-day Saint families. In 1937, under the direction of President Louise Y. Robison, with the approval of the Presiding Bishopric, the Relief Society organized the Mormon Handicraft Shop for these purposes: to provide an outlet for the handwork of women desiting to supplement the family income by working in their own homes; to preserve the handicraft arts of Latter-day Saint women of many nationalities; and to develop and increase appreciation for fine workmanship. The work of the shop is carried on under the direction of the general presidency of Relief Society and is furthered by a committee of general board members and an advisory committee composed of THE MORMON HANDICRAFT SHOP widows have been able to feed and clothe their children more adequately; and indigent elderly persons have been able to help themselves. The Mormon Handicraft Shop operates as a non-profit store. In order to continue as a going business, however, it must be self-supporting. Over