ll to understand the trick and to use it with caution. This same principle of distortion can be used effectively in framing a picture. Small objects close to the camera can be made to appear as large as a building farther away. This may give a feeling of depth to a photograph, as well as creating a striking composition. An arch, a gateway, a window, or a tree can be made into a frame for the scene proper. But once again all this must be used with a certain caution. HEN, of course, there is night photography. Many buildings at night, especially the Latter-day. Saint temples, are beautifully lighted, but few people have night photographs which they have taken themselves. And yet it is very easy— even with a box camera. Whatever camera you use must be set on time, placed on something solid, and the shutter left open from five to fifteen minutes. That's about. All there is to it. A tripod, of course, is best to hold the camera as it can be moved in order to get the best composition. It is also solid and will hold the camera during the exposure. If you haven't a tripod, the top of a car, a mailbox, a window sill, or even the sidewalk will do. If someone walks between the camera and the building during the exposure, it will make no difference.: If a car drives between, it won't matter, so long as no direct light shines into the camera lens. These are only a few suggestions. There are hundreds more, thousands. Study the photographs in the maga- BETTER PHOTOGRAPHY zines you buy. 'They are by top ranking photographers who have spent time and money learning their trade. Their ideas can be adapted and used. Willard Luce THE GREAT TABERNACLE, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 595 Perhaps in time we can make photography not only America's number one hobby in quantity of production but also in quality of production. People should be a normal part of the scene. Whenever they look at the camera 'they attract too much interest from the scene to themselves. Just photographing some of the many people who visit Temple Square could be a fascinating hobby in and of itself. Reunion Sylvia Probst Young I turn the corner to a quiet street, There stands a little house that I call mine That white frame over by the willow tree; Its front porch holds a honeysuckle vine, The western window frames a twilight sky And larks are nesting in the willow tree— In that small world is all my happiness Within a family circle's intimacy. I hurry now, for coming down the street, I see them.... How familiar is the noise Of racing feet... And I am back again With three I love—three little boys. They almost smother me as each one tries To hug me first—and then we go Back to the house to tell of all we did, Although I left less than an hour ago. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, September 1, and September 15, 1889 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WoMEN OF ALL NATIONS WOMAN The central flower divinely white Is Chastity! So pure it greets the sight, And drooping modesty, so true and rare, Her charms enhance, and make all traits seem fair. —E. RS, HOMESPUN TALKS TO MOTIIERS: Mothers, you and I cannot afford to slight or neglect this home-truth. Our daughters, giddy, happy, restless creatures that they are, will learn more lessons from the theatres they visit, the books they read, than from all the sermons or rebukes they may hear. Much that has been taught them in their childhood of truth, morality, cleanliness and even faith will remain indelibly fixed in their minds. But you have forgotten or overlooked the fact that with most women all these things are swept aside if her love happens to be placed on an unworthy object. Love is a most powerful agent in any woman's mind. And when it comes to the mind of a young, thoughtless, inexperienced girl, it is an agent that enters in as it were and possesses the whole being.—1 lomespun A FALSE STEP: Perhaps you have made a false step, and have lost hope in consequence. You probably exaggerate the evil done. Don't fancy that everybody is talking about it. People have plenty to think about, and they will not be interested in you very long. "Try again." Choose a new path, and cut down the briers, and subdue the obstacles, which, after all, are only there to test your strength. You will be happy in doing this, and you will be respected by all the other plodders in their respective pathways.—Mattie W. BEAVER STAKE: The stake conference of the Relief Socicty convened August 12th, in the L. DS. Meeting house, Beaver City. President Lucinda Howe presiding. After the opening exercises the presidents of the various branches gave their reports, showing that a portion of the sisters are alive to their duties and helping to care for the poor and sick. Sisters Zina Young and Minerva Snow being present addressed the conference both forcnoon and afternoon. Sister Zina Young was happy to meet with the sisters. "It is a duty to meet together and if we wish to live happy we must make our duties our pleasures. We are the daughters of God and we must acknowledge His goodness and mercy. We must be filled with integrity toward Him for it is worth more than the riches of this world as it will lead us back into the presence of God. We must be united and make our homes happy and pleasant." —Louisa Jones, Stake Sec. THANK GOD Thank God for dreams, in which our loved ones come From fairer homes, and make less burthensome Life's weary longings, and its weight of care, Which we must carry till we join them there. —Lula Page 596 L\ K LS 5 ~ i Ey N connection with the M. I. A. June conference, the six famous King Sisters, originally of Utah, sang in the Tabernacle in the sacred Book of Mormon cantata composed by their father, William King Driggs. Particularly outstanding was their beautiful sextet number, "Daughters of Ishmael." 'These handsome and talented young women are: Maxine (Mrs. La Varn Thomas), Louise (Mrs. Alvino Rey), Alyce (Mrs. Sidney d'Azavedo), Donna (Mrs. James Conkling), Yvonne (Mrs. Robert "Buddy" Cole), and Marilyn, seventeen and unmarried. They came, at their own expense, from California and New York to participate in this excellent musical event. Of the married daughters, Donna has three children and the others two each. All are active workers in Church organizations. MB:-. ANNIE KING, of Brantford, Ontario, Canada, has passed away at the age of one hundred and ten years. After turning one hundred, she still did her own housework, cooking, laundering, and shopping. ITTLE GOLD PIECES by Juliaetta Bateman Jensen (Mrs. Christen Jensen) is a story of the life and courage of the author's Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon mother, in a setting of pioneer times. Details have authenticity, scenes are vividly recreated, and the story is told simply and honestly. All well written, the book contains frequent passages of real beauty. CARRIE LARSON' ERIKSEN died in Salt Lake City in July at the age of ninety-eight. She came to the United States from Fyn, Denmark, at the age of twenty, and married Joseph S. Eriksen in Chicago. The Chicago Branch of the Church was organized in her home there. ARTHA C. EARNEST, a woman of great courage and renown, widow of "Boney" Earnest, famed Indian Scout, died in July at the age of ninety-seven in Alcove, Wyoming. She was a_ personal friend of Wild Bill Hickock, Buffalo Bill, Calamity Jane, and other frontier characters. She fought Indians, herded cattle, and hunted with her late husband. ONE of the ninety-eight United States memorial stamp issues honoring private individuals was printed to pay homage to Susan B. Anthony, the noted worker for woman suffrage. Page 597 o> EDITORIAL 2 SEPTEMBER 1949 Women Who Sew Together She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet. (Proverbs 31:21-22). [' '5 a friendly and pleasant custom for women to sew together. Ever since the long ago when the soft wool and the strong flax and the yielding cotton were first spun and woven into cloth, the busy hands of women have fashioned beauty and utility. While their fingers have deftly threaded intricate designs OF stitched seams for plain clothing, their thoughts, pethaps, have wandered from the work in hand, and as the poet says, "they were stitching life instead." The modern woman, supplied with a sewing machine and perhaps a hemstitcher or puttonhole maker, a hemmer, or a gatherer, still goes back across the path of centu ries to fashion exquisite designs with her own hands, to take the purple and the fine linen and weave them 'nto her dream of beauty. Thus the woman of today is one with her sister of ancient Israel whose hands held the spindle and the distaff. 'The woman of today ls one with many housewives, who took the thread and the looms and the fabrics of their native lands and looked well to their households by providing clothing and linens and ornamental tapestries. From these women we have inherited more than physical appearance, our mental abilities, or our talents and gifts, Page 596 She maketh herself coverings of tapestry; her clothing is silk and purple we have inherited their love of beauty and industry. They were our spiritual ancestors as well. The women of the New World, the ambitious, untiring, New Englanders who made their varied rugs and their patched quilts have handed down to us a tapestry of handwork and sewing that makes a delightful and unified composition of various strands of usefulness and decorative design. In the mountain valleys of the pioneer West, knitting and crocheting, netting and embroidery, spinning and weaving, cutting and mending hours and the evenings into twilight and continued by candlelight and by embers of the fireplace. And, as women sewed and seamed together, love and understanding and d companionship. Two friends traveling by wagon from St. George to Salt Lake City, knitted all the way and made the winter stockings for their families. And they made a closer knitting of lifelong friendship. Many of us recall rag bees and quilting bees and the women who comforted, consoled, and encouraged each other between quick flashings of needles a