BY C. R. SAVAGE.

	There are very few subjects upon which
opinions vary as much, as upon the sphere of
the gentler sex, and the ideas concerning her
true position are different in every clime and
amongst all people. It is left to the negroes of
central Africa to give us the picture of woman
in the lowest state of existence socially and
morally, for nowhere else can she be found in
a more sunken or degraded condition; and if
the horrors connected with her capture and
sale into slavery are added to her previous con-
dition, her state of being presents the most in-
tensified degree of human misery.
	It has been stated that as fast as a nation
increases in intelligence so does the social
position of the female rise to a higher plane;
the question therefore arises, admitting this
proposition, why should not our mothers, who
bear the brunt of the social tie, enjoy every
right and privilege that the sterner sex claim?
Who can say just what she should do, or what
she should not do? On the continent of
Europe, in Germany, Switzerland, France, and
other countries, she can be seen working in the
fields, gathering manure on the high roads,
helping bricklayers, cleaning streets, unloading
steamers, and performing every other kind of
dreary, deadening occupations, until in form
and feature she loses the gracefulness which
constitutes the prominent charm of the sex we
love, and yet in spite of these facts the inhab-
itants of these countries consider themselves
the most enlightened nations of the earth, and
easily get rid of the disgrace by assuming that
some persons are necessarily born to be the
servants and slaves of others born under more
favorable auspices. With all such conclusions
I most emphatically differ; for nowhere in any
sacred writing do we find that she was ever al-
lotted any inferior or degraded position; but
on the contrary she was given as a helpmate

[Column 2]
for man in the first chronicles of her advent
upon our earth, to be his companion and aid,
that by the greater beauty and charms of her
person she could modify the coarseness of the
sterner sex, that while he, strong and sturdy,
should battle with the rough scenes of life, in
the struggle for existence, she could by the
gentleness of her manner and the feminine
graces that all true women possess, render his
life perfect. The sacred writ declares that
man is not perfect without the woman, and
vice versa. In what part of our earth where
there is a semblance of a house do we not find
woman the prominent figure, and who shall
say that as empress of the social circle of a
happy home she is not the equal of man; and
is this not pre-eminently her true sphere of
usefulness? Who that has watched the loving
mother, sitting by the bed of sickness and has
seen her patient, untiring power to wait upon
the unfortunate; her loving tenderness towards
renegade children; her patient endurance in
the trials of maternity; her self-denial in times
of adversity, and other evidences of the great-
ness of the feminine heart can deny her sex
whatever right will contribute to her happi-
ness? Who that has felt the magic tenderness
of the soothing hand of our wives or mothers
on our troubled brows during sickness, can for-
get its influence, and what touch of man's can
equal it in intensity of expression?
	It may therefore be briefly summed up that
man is greatest abroad, and woman at home;
thus are they equal. How many instances are
there in the experience of thousands of suc-
cessful men where the quick perceptions of the
softer sex have aided and guided the states-
man, patriot, warrior and pioneer to success?
History is full of such instances. The op-
posite sex are always ready to share in the toils
and struggles of man, whether battling for
freedom or as pioneers seeking homes in new
countries; who therefore dare say that she is
a born drudge? Who is woman? If I were
asked what kind of employment is best suited
to the other sex, I should say that any kind
that needs nimble fingers more than main
strength, in other words that labor that does
not tax the back more than the hands. Women
excel in telegraphy, photography, needle work,
music, medicine, surgery, as clerks in stores, as
teachers, as artists, but I do not detract from
the previous proposition that she should excel
in the art of house management. It should be
a definitely established maxim that competency
in house government should stand first in the
minds of mothers, when teaching their daughters
the duties of life. A knowledge of some
avocation always proves available when ad-
versity overtakes a woman, and when a lady
settles down to learn any of the above spheres
of usefulness, let it be one she loves to work at,
and she will sure to be successful; if she learn
one thing well it will come into use when
thrown upon her own resources.
	The question arises, what is the position of
woman under the influence of the "Mormon"
faith? Is there any part of the principles
given to us through the instrumentality of the
Prophet Joseph Smith, that assigns to our
ladies a degraded position? Are there any
rights enjoyed in the so-called enlightened
countries that the ladies of Utah do not enjoy?
Has she been denied any right, socially, com-
mercially or politically under the social in-
fluences existing in Utah? I say no! Our
ladies are showing the effects of the true

[Column 3]
enlightenment springing from faith in the
great latter-day work, and are to-day making
their mark as physicians, editors, writers, as
presidents of Relief and Improvement societies
to as great an extent (all things considered) as
are the ladies in older and more highly favored
countries.
	We may thus conclude that the sphere of
woman extends into any vocation to which she
can give her sole attention, and also that she is
as much of a success in what she tries to do as
are her fathers and brothers. If a community
can be measured as to her intellectual status
by the right enjoyed by woman, I claim for our
social system the highest position as being em-
phatically that one which, if fostered and sus-
tained, will give to our wives and daughters
whatever blessing their heart desires and all
the rights they can enjoy.—From "The Index,"
