on their four hundred years of "bondage" to the Egyptians. Towards the end of this period their burdens became unbearable, so much so that they cried to the God of their fathers for deliverance. Jehovah heard their prayers and set them free. Through a rapid succession of events  the birth and rise of Moses, the revelations of the Lord to him, the plagues upon their oppressors, and their flight from the Nile banks  the children of Israel escaped beyond the power of the enemy into the wilderness. Their wanderings in the wilderness continued till almost every man died, who had come out of Egypt, and a new generation had grown up. Moses, "the most exalted figure in the ancient world." was their leader in both temporal and spiritual matters. Meantime they had dissensions within their ranks and fierce battles with their enemies without. The generation of Israelites that came out of Egypt is often characterized in the biblical narrative as "stiff-necked." And they were  if we are to judge by their actions. Even Moses, one of the meekest of men, at times became impatient with them, and gave them the rebukes they richly deserved. This stiff-neckedness it was that impelled the Lord to "cut off" the generation that crossed the Red sea. As for the opposition the Israelites encountered from the tribes along the way, the chosen people were generally successful in battle. On the death of Moses, Joshua took command of the GUIDE LESSONS. 231 Israelites, and led them presently into the land of Canaan, which he conquered divided off for them. their "inheritance and possession" and which he After Joshua had "taken the Promised Land" and given it to the children of Israel, there were still many Canaanites left in cities here and there in the "inheritance" of certain tribes. These were "left by the Lord," we are told, "to prove Israel by them." The tribe of Benjamin, for instance, "did not drive out the Jebusites, nor Manasseh the inhabitants of Beth-shean and her towns;" and this same statement is made by the sacred historian concerning the tribes of Ephraim, Zebulun, Asher, and Naphtali. And hereby hangs a tale. For whenever the Israelites left off serving the Lord for a time, as they did at frequent intervals during these years, these Canaanitish people became a source of great trouble to them. "I will not drive them out from before you," said the Lord, referring to the first inhabitants of the land, "but they shall be as thorns in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you." During the leadership of Joshua, the Israelites "served the Lord all his days." But when that generation "were gathered unto their fathers" and when another arose "which knew not the Lord nor yet the works which he had done for Israel," they "did evil in the sight of the Lord, and served Baalim. And they forsook the Lord God of their fathers, which brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, the gods of the people that were round about them." They were brought back to the service of the Lord only through suffering and bondage  as who is not? Sometimes their deliverance was wrought through the treachery of one of their number, as in the case of Ehud, who "made him a dagger which had two edges, of a cubit length," who "did gird it under his raiment upon his right thigh," who thereupon went on a personal visit to Eglon, "a very fat man" and the king of Israel's oppressors, and who "put forth his left hand and took the dagger from his right thigh and thrust it into the king," blade and haft and all, till the king was dead. Sometimes this deliverance was wrought out by means of the direct valor of such persons as Barak and Deborah, who with ten thousand men of war wrested the freedom of their people from the hands of those who oppressed them. Josephus has a passage concerning this very time which allows us to look at the general condition of the Israelites during one of these lapses. "The Israelites grew so indolent and unready of taking pains," he says, "that misfortunes came heavier upon them, which also proceeded in part from their contempt of the divine worship; for when they had once fallen off from the regularity of their political government, they indulged themselves 
 further in living according to their own pleasure, and according to their own will, till they were full of the evil doings that were common among the Canaanites. God therefore was angry with them and they lost that happy state which they had obtained by their innumerable labors, by their luxury; for when Chusan, king of the Assyrians, had made war against them, they lost many of their soldiers in the battle, and when they were besieged, they were taken by force; nay, there were some who, out of fear, voluntarily submitted to him, and though the tribute laid upon them was more than they could bear, yet did they pay it, and underwent all sort of oppression for eight years." The plain truth, however, is that the temptation to forsake the worship of the true God for that of the gods served all around them was very great, considering that human nature is as it is. The religious rites of the Israelites were extremely strict, and there were many of them. The command respecting the observance of the Sabbath, for instance, allowed, if not directed, the toning of any one who broke this law. Jehovah was "a jealous God." On the other hand, the worship of the heathen nations in Palestine, although strict in some of its requirements, made a powerful appeal to the natural indolence of human nature. And this appeal to the Israelites was the greater because they had no king and the splendors of kingship, while the heathen nations had both. Then, too, whereas the Israelites were apparently "intolerant," these other peoples' worship permitted other gods than their own. QUESTIONS. 1. What two periods are involved in this lesson? 2. What happened to Israel after the death of Rachel? fnmily?3. Who was Joseph? What did he do for his father's 4. What difference existed between the Israelites and their neighbors? What is the significance of these? 5. What happened to Israel after the death of Joshua? How do. you account for the success of Joshua in keeping his people true? 6. Why did the Israelites so often fall away from the true worship? In this respect compare them with the Nephites on this continent. 7. What conditions do we have today, if any, that are similar to those of the Israelites at this time? Note: We recommend our students to buy Smith's Old Testament History, $1.50, Deseret Sunday School Book Store or Deseret News. GUIDE LESSONS. 
 Work and Business. Second Week in May. LESSON III. Genealogy and Literature Third Week in May. nick and descriptive names. One of the earliest forms of surnames was that known as a nick name. The custom of shortening a child's name has remained to this day. Margaret as Maggie, Mary as May, Elizabeth as Betty, or Lizzie, and Catherine as Kate. William is contracted to Bill, Harry to Hal, Richard to Dick, and Robert to Bob. Not only are Christian names thus changed, but children receive such nick names as Tug, Bud, Tag, Punk, Nab, Carrots, Ginger, Dot, Bunchy, Nosey, Goggles, and Bat. It is almost impossible for a child thus nick-named to lose the pretty or ugly addition; and these nick names sometimes became surnames for the descendants of the individual. Baring-Gould says: "Among the English kings nicknames were common, as Ethelred, 'the Unready,' Edmund 'Ironside,' Harold 'Harefoot,' Henry 'Beauclerk,' Richard 'Cceur de Lion,' John 'Lackland,' Edward 'Longshanks,' and Richard 'Crookback.' The Welsh princes sometimes had descriptive epithets attached to their names, as Calofynedd 'the Whitewashes' Leuhir 'Longhand,' Myofaur 'the Courteous.' Sometimes a nickname displaced a baptismal.name. Thus, Brendon the Coyager was christened 'Mobi;' but, because there was an auroral display at his birth, he was known through life as 'Brenain.' St. Patrick had four names, of which Succat, Cothraigh, and Magonius were the others. Cadoc's real name was Cathmael. "When and how nicknames as well as other names became hereditary is decided by Baring-Gould to be about 1538 but Lower and Cadman give the date as the twelfth century. The word "alias" was often slipped in between the Christian name and the nickname as  Jones alias Ballence, and Gilbert alias Webber. 
 Again we quote from Baring-Gould: "That the term 'Bastard' should have been accepted without demur as a surname is not so surprising as might appear. William the Conqueror in his charters did not shrink from describing himself as William 'the Bastard.' The name Bastard has been borne by an ancient and honorable family in the West of England. 'Liefchild' is a love-child, a provincialism for one that is illegitimate. 'Parish' was a name often given to a child that was a foundling, and brought up by the community in a village. 'Parsons' may designate the child of the parish priest before the marriage of the clergy was suffered, or even when it was a new thing, and not relished by the people. But in most cases it is a corruption of Pierson, or Peter's son. The name Burrell comes from the Old English word employed by Chaucer for a layman. But why one layman out of all the parish should assume this title to himself is due to this: that Burrell is a contraction for Boreclerk, a lay clerk in a cathedral or collegiate church." As an instance of nicknames, one will find persons named summer, winter, day, Monday, Sunday, Noal, Paschal, and Easter. We have in this state of Utah a gentleman by the name of Bytheway; another by the name of Startup  which gentleman, by-the-way, married a Miss Startin. The few nicknames that eixst in the Essex record are Coupgorge, Besta (that is doubtful), Dieudonne, Foot, Fox, Gambon, Kene, Maidgood, Maloysel, Merrey, Peticrue, Rake, Short, Swift, Tryst, Whitehead, Wolf, and Young. Others were liarfoot, Crookshanks, Sheepshanks, Halfpenny, etc. : but many were French sobriquets applied by French men-at-arms and domestics to Englishmen with whom they were brought in contact, and accepted without any comprehension as to the meaning. Thus we have the surname of Bunker from Boncceur, Bunting from Bonnetin, Petti fer is Pied-de-fer, and Firebrace is Ferrebras. Joseph Centlivre was cook to Queen Anne; but the name, translated into Ilundredpounds, occurs in 1417, when a William of that name was Mayor of Lynn. Possibly enough the original name Centlivre was a mistake for St. Livaire, who is venerated at Metz. We should look to every other source for the interpretation of a grotesque surname before accepting it as a genuine nickname." QUESTIONS. 1. What is a nickname? 2. What can you say about nicknames in general? 3. How many in this class arc called by a nickname? 4. Are there any here whose surname is a nickname? GUIDE LESSONS. 
 Third Week in May. true stories. Once there was a little boy, who, like all the little boys, was very fond of play. He liked mischief, too; indeed, he was so full of it that his mother could hardly do her work for watching him. Finally, to keep him within bounds, she made a long apron string and tied him to it. Tommy did not mind this so much at first. But after a while he became very tired of tagging his mother about the house while she did her work; and once when she was not looking, he seized the scissors, clipped the apron string, and slipped out of doors. Oh, how good it seemed to feel free again! He skipped and chased about through the lot and out into the open fields. He began to pluck the flowers and chase the butterflies. Away and away he went until he came to the hillside. And up the slope he climbed after more wild flowers. Finally he came to a cliff. On the edge of it was the most beautiful cluster of blossoms he had ever seen. He must have them, so he climbed out towards the tempting flowers, but just as he got near enough to reach and pluck them, his foot slipped and he went tumbling down to the edge of the cliff. Suddenly something caught and held him. He lay a moment on the dizzy brink and then clambered slowly back to safety. He had been saved by his mother's apron string. Is this story true? This question is constantly coming from our children. With respect to the story just given, how shall we answer them? It is not a true-to-fact story; it was created for us by Laura E. Richards; but is the story not true? Does it not carry a great lesson of life? How many wayward boys and girls have been held from being plunged over a precipice by some golden string of love tied to their young lives by an anxious mother? A story, as we learned in our first study, may be true to life a. id true to truth without being true to fact. Such stories, if they are wholesome, as this one certainly is, may do great good to one who hears it. To be limited to only such tales as those that really happened, would be to deny ourselves some of the best literature the world has produced. Hawthorne's "Great Stone Face" is another good example of a story that is true to truth. The little boy, Ernest, in this tale, sees a great face of stone on the mountainside. His mother tells him that there will one day come a man who will be like 
 the Great Stone Face. This starts the thoughtful boy wondering what kind of man will come. He studies the noble features of the face on the mountain. He dreams about the splendid attributes he reads in it. He admires the character that he pictures the Great Stone Face to represent. A great general comes to live in the town; the people hail this warrior as the image of the Great Stone Face; but Ernest can see no likeness between this man of blood and the noble face on the mountain. Then a great financier comes, and he is welcomed as the man of prophecy, but the boy shakes his head. The great one who is to be like the Great Stone Face must be more than a miserly money-maker. Ernest dreams on and lives the noble things he dreams until he h:mself, becomes the man that the people have said would come. This is a created story, of course; but it brings home to the reader's heart the great truth that we unconsciously acquire those qualities that we admire  a life lesson that should be impressed on every soul. Another story that carries a fine lesson is this: A certain man was about to die. Just before he passed away he called to his s:de his three sons and said to them: "My boys. I am going to meet my Maker. I have nothing to leave to you but my blessing, my good name, and the old farm. The land is not very valuable, but there is hidden in it a pot of gold. You may have this treasure if you can find it." When the father had died and was buried honorably, his sons began to dig in the old field to find the pot of gold. They upturned every bit of the soil a foot deep. No gold was found. Again they went over the ground, this time digging two feet deep; but no money was unearthed. Discouraged, but not disheartened they tried again, going down three feet. And still they failed to find the treasure. "Father must have deceived us," suggested one of the boys; "but it is very unlike him to do so." "Well, it is no use to dig any more," said another, "but we might plant the field to corn, and not lose all our labor." This suggestion was followed. The result was that they raised three times as much corn as ever they had produced. "I see now," remarked one of the brothers, "what father meant by the 'pot of gold.' " Stories of this kind are certainly worth while even though they may not be true to fact. Fairy tales often symbolize life. They may be compared with a trellis of blossoming roses. The flowers running over the latticework are in themselves beautiful; but they get an added