[Vol55 | April 1968 | Page 312 | Lesson | Homemaking Care of the Ill in the Home Rae | Jean Young]
Care of the Ill in the Home HOMEMAKING Development Through Homemaking Education Rae Jean Young, Faculty Member Brigham Young University, College of Nursing Northern Hemisphere: Second Meeting, July, 1968 Southern Hemisphere: December, 1968 OBJECTIVE: To suggest ways of easing the burden on the INTRODUCTION There are certain basic factors of physical care that must be attended to in the care of any ill person: comfort measures, which include bathing, hair and mouth care, positioning, elimination of body wastes, feeding, and administration of medication. Along with physical care of the patient, the physical care of the home nurse should be considered. By using the following proper body mechanics, the home nurse can help to protect herself and eliminate fatigue: 1. Maintain a broad base of support with the feet comfortably apart. 2. When lifting, bend the knees to allow the large muscles of the arms and legs to support the weight rather than the weaker lower back muscles. 3. Stand close to the work area and carry heavy objects close to the body. 312 home nurse caused by illness in the home. Slide or roll patient rather than lift. Have patient help when possible. Get help where patient is heavy and helpless. Sd i 5 She should also use a cover-all apron, good handwashing techniques, and proper waste disposal to prevent spread of disease to herself or to other family members. HANDWASHING Wash hands and wrists carefully before and after caring for the patient. Use a good soapy lather and make sure nails and areas between fingers are fully soaped. Rinse hands under hot running water with the stopper removed from basin. Dry hands with clean towel or disposable paper towel. IMPROVISED HOME EQUIPMENT A. Over bed table Lesson Department Use a heavy, clean cardboard carton at least 10 by 12 by 24 inches with flaps removed. Cut curved pieces out of the two wide sides leaving at least 2" on the top to support table top. Adjust height of box to that of patient. The box may be cov ered with plastic or contact paper to ma aa WAYS OF EASING THE BURDEN While caring for the ill, the person carrying the most responsibility often finds that weariness soon sets in. The added amount of physical labor, plus the emotional strain, make it difficult for one person to do the job. Comided by Relief Society sisters can inestimable value at such a time. When illness is present in the home, sharing of responsibility and adjustment of usual responsibilities make the task much easier and the care of the patient can rearrange work assignments This will not only save mother's energy, but will help other family members feel useful. S.> possible ways of rearranging threaten to become a burden, yet it can be borne with greater ease and betwith simple home nursing techniques. Second, love and consideration—from all family members, including the patient. P der, loving care is an important factor in the recovery of the patient. The home nurse should not allow herself to be tied to the sick room day and night. Allowing a friend or neighbor to spend a few hours with the patient while she goes shopping, to a movie, to have her hair done, or to any activity outside of the home usually helps both nurse and patient. 

313 April 1968

 B. Back rest <p> L_ Wi "a Cut the corner at each of the broad sides of the box. Score the short sides of the carton diagonally from top to bottom on the inner a) surface. I od _ia 4 Vj, a Bring the front side of the box up over the folded sides. Tie in place. Bend inward on the scored lines. _~fPlace on the bed with the slanting side toward the patient. C. Blocks to raise the bed may be made from #10 cans filled with sand. The lids should be replaced on top of the sand for the legs of the bed to rest upon. Remove casters from legs of the bed. 314 THE RIGHT ATMOSPHERE It is wise to create an atmosphere of calm and confidence about the patient. All family members will be called upon to give consideration to the patient, including any children in the home. When a patient is confined to bed over an extended period of time, he often feels lonely and left out of family activities. When the illness is severe, isolation may be required, but once he begins convalescing he usually wants and enjoys company. This is true also of the handicapped, chronically ill, or the aged. Mealtime visiting may be in order, with the doctor's permission. Allowing a family member to share a meal with the patient may reassure him that he is still very much a part of the family. Visits and visitors must be kept within reasonable limits. For all visits a little briefing on suggested topics of conversation may be helpful. A child might be told, "Daddy has been asking about your school activities." For a visit with Grandma a remark such as, "Tell Grandma about Tabby's new kittens." Even when a patient is alone, he can find diversion with the help of the home nurse. Books, Magazines, newspapers, radio, and television are good companions. Some patients who have never before enjoyed games, puzzles, etc., learn to enjoy them while bed-bound. When there is illness in the home, the home nurse finds her work load and responsibilities will increase. It is vital that she keep Lesson Department her health up to par, and that she make every effort to follow, as nearly as possible, the usual pattern of living. Her family's routine must be considered, too, and disturbed as little as possible. She should eat and sleep at customary times and get some needed recreation and diversion. At first, this may appear hard to accomplish, but it is a necessity— for the patient as well as the home nurse. It would be helpful to write out a plan or daily schedule for the care of the patient for the use of the home nurse or her substitute. WHEN HELP IS NEEDED There are agencies and organizations which are for the express purpose of helping care for the ill in the home. In the United States and some other countries public health agencies will send a nurse to the home. The public health nurse is helpful in many ways. She will help arrange the physical setup for the sick room, suggesting the equipment necessary and possible ways of improvising. She will also demonstrate for the home nurse such things as feeding, bathing, and turning the patient. In _ the United States of America, services of public health nurses are free to everyone regardless of socio-economic status. Visiting nurse agencies are found in many cities. They usually charge a nominal fee. The Red Cross is another valuable resource which is available in most parts of the world. The Red Cross is most helpful for instructions on caring for the ill. 315 \ COLORED PIECES My grandma took into her hands one day The scraps of fabric hoarded carefully Against the time when riotous display Of colors teased to set her fancy free. Her eyes compared the bits of printed stuff With those of delicate designs. She matched and trimmed until she had enough To fill her need for seaming patterned lines. Her mind encompassed cloth, yet she would stop While she was plying needle steadily, To straighten and arrange the growing top Of gayest rings upon the quilt to be. Creating beauty, she surveyed the whole And knew that colored pieces feed a soul!