[Vol55 | April 1968 | Page 264 | Special Feature | Cancer Research Lengthens Life The American | Cancer Society]
CANCER RESEARCH LENGTHENS LIFE Fight Cancer With a Checkup and a Check The American Cancer Society = The American Cancer Society is made up of good neighbors. Its work is done by volunteers who ring doorbells with life-saving messages, who serve and help cancer patients and their families, and who raise the Society's funds. Volunteers are in charge of all t Society's policies, and its national and local boards of directors are all volunteers.
A volunteer in Pittsburgh gave a leaflet on cancer checkups to a mother of th children. The woman had a checkup and learned she had an early cancer of the breast. With prompt treatent she was cured. 'That volunteer saved my life," she said. Do you know the seven warning signals of cancer? Unusual bleeding or discharge. A lump or thickening in the breast or elsewhere. A sore that does not heal. Change in bowel or bladder habits. Hoarseness or cough. Indigestion or difficulty in swallowing. A change in a wart or mole. NOP WNP The risk of dying in the prime of life is more than twice as great for men who are heavy cigarette smokers as for men who are nonsmokers. Children love to imitate their parents. They learn by imitating them.. Thousands of men and women are hiding from the facts of cigarette smoking. Uterine cancer, common in women, can be detected by a pap test, and is almost 100 per cent curable, if found in time. In the field of leukemia, cancer of the blood-forming organs, research points the way to many promising leads. About 45,000 Americans died of colon and rectum cancer last year. A large number of them could have been saved if they had regular physical examinations, including the ''procto."' Research for cancer detection, treatment, and cure is going forward in many directions and the accomplishments save many lives. Cancer research lengthens lifebut research costs money. Give generously to fight cancer. Have an annual physical checkup and give a generous check to support the work of the American Cancer Society. 264