[Vol55 | April 1968 | Page 265 | Fiction | Home, Revisited | Christie Lund Coles]
Christie Lund Coles =» Martha stood by the large window as long as her legs would hold her without feeling shaky. Then, she sank into one of the comfortable chairs in the lounge of the rest home, which faced the eastern mountains. It was a nt oeen beautiful view, similar to that she had when she was home and could look from her front door and see the trees and the wide lawn with the mountains in the distance. There weren't many trees here. These places hadn't been built long enough to have roots and old trees. Millie, the tall nurse, paused on her way down the hall to say, "My, Mrs. Brady, you really look nice today. Going to a party?" Martha smiled at her, not quite daring to trust her secret with her, not even sure that there was a secret. But, she couldn't resist saying, "No. I think Ill be going home." Millie smiled indulgently, for most of the people here talked about going home constantly. 

265 April 1968

 She said, "What will we do without you around here? Who will feed Mrs. Redford? And you would miss the next chapter— and the next—of the book Emma Lou is reading to you." Martha merely smiled, still looking out of the window watching for Tess, her daughter, who had said she might have a surprise for her. To herself, she thought, don't try to butter me up. I'm going home. Back to my own place. My own kitchen where I can putter around. You'll see. She could hear the carts beginning to move down the halls with the noon meal on them. She could smell cooked meat and she thought, asparagus. She liked that. It wasn't likely they would have it here, though. Too expensive. It used to grow wild back at the end of her lot near the stream. Father used to pick it and bring it in, huge bunches of it. The same with the field tomatoes that were pretty different from the ones you saw nowadays, red and ripe and luscious. Now, they called them beefsteak tomatoes and they cost a fortune. But Tess always told her to order whatever she wanted on the days she took her out to lunch. She was going to have steak (no ground meat today), and asparagus. And tomatoes. After dinner—if they did go home—she would buy a cake and have some cool lemonade - with it. The excitement of the thought made her legs quiver as she stood up at the sight of Tess' car turning into the parking area. It was necessary for her to hold onto the back of a chair to 266 get her balance before Tess got out to come in after her. She had thought she could make it on her own but was glad for the steadying hand of Rose, the nurse at the desk, who had seen her wobble, and had come to assist her. Yet, she met Tess at the door, smiling, straightening her good black straw hat. (What if it was ten years old? It was still good, and as near as she could tell, just about what they were wearing nowadays.) Tess kissed her. "You're looking real perky, Mother. Where do you want to go for lunch?" "My dear, you know more about that than I do. Just someplace real nice, because I want something special." "Really? And what could that be? Caviar?" "Nonsense. Salty old fish eggs. I want good old American steak, the kind your father used to raise and slaughter. Can you remember?" "Yes. I can even remember when we were married and he divided one with us. You can't buy meat like that." Martha was pleased. She beamed. "Indeed you can't. And I want asparagus. And tomatoes." "Tomatoes aren't on your diet." "Guess just this once isn't going to hurt me. Now, let's go. They are already eating here." As she settled into her seat, she mused pensively, "I guess Mrs. Redford will be wondering why I'm not there to feed her. But she will have to get used to is I "What did you say?" Tess asked, her mind quite occupied with her driving. "Oh... Nothing really. [ll tell you later." She would tell her after Tess had told her secret. She didn't know how she could wait, but she would manage. She wouldn't let her second daughter (LaVon was living in the East) know how excited she really was. She would go through all the motions of eating, enjoying her food. Then... Later... They would buy the cake, they would go home. She would make the lemonade herself, cut the cake, serve it on her best heirloom plates that were still, she supposed, in the china cupboard in the dining room, just as she had left them. B ut, it seemed, the darkhaired, dark-eyed girl was in no particular hurry to tell her. She kept up a running conversation. Finally, Martha could wait no longer. She put up her thin, slightly gnarled hand to silence her daughter in the midst of some silly bit of news, and said, "I'm not interested in that. ['m interested in what else you're going to tell me. The good news." "Good news?" The girl's eyes widened, just as they had done since she was a small child, questioning her, and wondering. (Could it be possible that her daughter was past forty and had a daughter of her own married and settled in an apartment of her own?) "Pshaw. Surely, you know," her mother exclaimed, in irritation, "You told me last week you had a secret to tell me. Now, tell me. Tell me." Tess' eyes went blank for a moment as she repeated the Home Revisited word "Secret? I don't remember." Then, after a brief hesitation, she smiled, though not exactly as she would have smiled if she were playing a trick on her, and said, "Oh, yes. Jeanie didn't want me to tell you until she was sure. But, she is going to have a baby. In December. Isn't that wonderful? You will be a great-grandmother for the fourth time." Jeanie had been closer to her than any of her grandchildren and she knew she should have been happy, but she didn't feel anything except a great emptiness within her, as if she was falling. She gripped the table edge, asking, "You're sure that's all?" "Why, yes. What did you expect?" Martha didn't speak for a moment, then the words came out almost a sob, "I thought you were going to take me home. That you had made some arrangement that I could stay there...." "But, Mother, we've gone over this so many times. You couldn't stay there alone. You can go home with me. You know you're welcome. But, when Pete has to go on one of his long trips I feel bound to go with him. We can't find anyone to stay with you. You know, we tried it before. I thought you understood how it all is." Martha's lip quivered. "But... I thought... You were going to take me back to my own house, my own things...." Suddenly, Tess stood up. Her square chin, like her father's, was resolute. She said, 'All right, darling, let's drive out 

267 April 1968

 there. If you want to stay, I guess you may." The cake was in the seat between them, the lemon juice in a sack, when they drove up to the house that stood back from the road thirty or forty yards, surrounded by a hedge that had grown completely out of hand as had the grass. "What has happened here?" she asked, angrily, "Why isn't this place kept up?" "There just aren't any boys around here that want the work." "What about the Deardon boy and Jimmie down the street? He always used to come and help me." "Oh, Mother, they're grown up. Jim has gone away to school. Ted Deardon may even be married, I don't know. Times have changed." "Indeed they have. Look at that grass. And see that paint on the door, it's beginning to peel all over." "We were planning to have it fixed up this summer... Once you made up your mind to sell it." "Or... Decide to come back to it,' her mother injected, quietly, "I told you, after I left your place that I would stay there six months and then, if I still felt pretty well and wanted to, I would come back. You children agreed." The younger woman sighed, "I suppose we did." "Well, come in and make yourself at home. I'm back now, and we'll soon have all of this fixed up." As Tess opened the door and they stepped through, an odor of great mustiness greeted their nostrils. 268 She cried, "Goodness, open a window. It smells like a vault in here... Or a tomb." Tess had a difficult time opening the window, finally having to go to the kitchen to find one that would give freely. "We really shouldn't open that one until the screen is fixed," Martha' suggested, but they needed the air so that she let it go. As she removed her hat and jacket; she said, "Now, you sit down and let me fix you some lemonade and a piece of this angel food cake." "Let me help you," Tess suggested, moving toward the cupboard, in need of painting, too. But her mother protested, "No, you don't. You just sit down. This is my treat." She got her best plates from the top shelf, the cut glass, stemmed glasses that needed to be washed a bit before she could put the cold tap water in (from the old natural flowing well), and the canned lemon juice Tess had _ insisted that she buy instead of lemons... Because it was simpler. And by the time that the can was punched, the sugar measured (she wondered if sugar spoiled standing so long), the cake cut on the plates, she was amazed to find that she was a bit shaky. But, wasn't that natural, really? She had been used to being waited on too long, she needed to get her old legs going again. And she would! Just wait and see, she would, indeed. Tess said, "You look a little tired. Would you like to lie down on your bed for a little while? I have a little shopping to do and I could come back and get you. We could go to my place...." "I'm not going to your place," Martha told her, emphatically, "I'm going to stay here. You can bring me something to cook. I won't need much, some bacon and eggs, bread. They never gave me enough bread." "You weren't supposed to.... "Don't say I wasn't supposed to have it. At my age, what difference do a few pieces of bread make?" Tess started to say something about diabetic coma, but thought better of it, and arose smiling. "Well, [ll turn the bedspread down. There's a blanket on the foot there if you need it over you. I'll bring the groceries. Anything else you want?" Martha enumerated a few things, surprised at the girl's easy compliance. 9 fi was good to be in her own bedroom, see her own dresser, and the old chest and the table with its crocheted doily on it. It was cluttered now with things she had forbidden them to touch, but someday, she would have time to go through them all, sort things out. Right now, she was tired. She lay down, mentally scoffing at the idea of a blanket on such a warm spring day. Yet, it wasn't many moments till she was reaching for it. She had forgotten how cold this house was, and how dark this room. The shrubbery had grown even taller around the windows. It was musty and gloomy, and the silence that settled around her was almost frightening. There were no children playing outside as there had been before her eldest daughter had moved from the house next door. Home Revisited She had complained sometimes, when she had wanted to sleep, but she missed them now. And she didn't like the thought that there would be none of them to take turns sleeping with her at night. Well, she could get a phone. She could have it right beside the bed here. An almost lifetime fear of tramps coming to the door— as they had done when she was younger—needled her stomach, set it to quivering. She wouldn't worry about it now, though. She was going to nap, just as she did every day at the rest home, when the place had settled down in the afternoon quiet, except for the occasional cushioned step of one of the young and pretty nurses. She slept soundly until a noise at the front door invaded her dreamy half-consciousness. Her heart began to pound in unexplicable fear. She was barely conscious of her husband's picture on the wall; that of Lena— the daughter who had died. In fact, by the time Tess got in she was still waking from the sound sleep, waking with a start, wondering where she was, and why it was so dark, instead of bright as noonday as it was at Foothill Manor. Then, she remembered, and a great wave of nostalgia swept over her at the sight of the familiar room—nostalgia for all the pleasant hours she had spent here. The years when the children were running in and out—her own, coming from fishing or bobsleigh parties, to a pot of hot soup and warm, new-baked bread, recently taken from the oven of the coal range (which still sat there in all its regal dig- 

269 April 1968

 nity, waiting for someone to fetch and carry the wood and coal and start the fire. She was a little afraid she wouldn't use the stove much next winter... Because who would fetch and carry the wood now? Not Father, not her two stalwart sons—married and moved away now, too, and not the grandchildren who had run in and out, and argued over which one should sleep there (that is, until toward the last when they were beginning to get older and were going out with their friends). No. There would be no one coming in now at all odd hours. Even Tess had had little time to spend with her when she had lived there, and would have much less now... Driving clear out here. Tess' cheery voice interrupted her thought. She came in with a rather small bag of groceries, set them down and said, "Does it seem good to be back? Will it be nice to be getting your own breakfast?" She remembered the first small stroke she had had. She had been getting breakfast that morning, when everything went black. But Reid had slept there and helped her to the bed and later had run to get his mother. Who would know if anything should happen to her now? Here alone? She sat on the edge of the bed. She said, "I guess I really should go back there tonight. Mrs. Redford always counts on me helping to feed her. She will wonder what has become of me. By the looks of things, this place needs quite a bit of fixing up. I 270 guess even the gas for the stove and the front-room heater will have to be turned on. Won't they?" "Yes, they will. I don't want you wrestling with that coal range." "Oh, I could manage that for a day or two. I'm not as weak as you all make out." Then, before her daughter could answer, she hurried on, "But for the time being, maybe I'd better go back. You know that sweet Emma Lou who comes and reads to us, is reading the best book. I can hardly wait to hear what's going to happen tomorrow." "Fine. Just fine, dear. Anything you say. You can go home with me to dinner tonight, then I'll take you back." "N-o-o. Your hubby just might bring somebody from the office, and anyway, Mrs. Redford sort of depends on me to help her eat. You don't mind, do you?" Her lovely daughter kissed her gently, "Anything you say, Madam." As they closed the door, Martha looked at the house for just a moment, wistfully. It was the same house, and yet so different. Just as she was different. She had wanted to come home. But not to this strange, this empty, empty shell of rooms that she had seen today. All of them at the home thought and talked of nothing except wanting to go home, but the home they wanted to go to was a place of the long ago. A place that wasn't real any longer. A place out of the past. It was just as well it stayed there. In the past. And in happy memory. The Seven C's Plus Contentment Mabel Jones Gabbott ® I walked into my home at five p. M. I had been at the university since nine A. M. Covering a conference for home economists. During one hour's lecture I had become aware of the seven C's considered in planning a home: comfort, convenience, circulation, color harmony, charm, cost, and conversation pieces. Conversation pieces! Now that was what I had at home. There was the ironing board still set up where the college daughter had done a last minute press job... A Scouter's wet swimming suit on my hall table... And records, piled, scattered, and unsheathed all over the floor around the stereo. How charming! I walked into the kitchen. Grease spattered the burners where the boys had cooked hamburgers for lunch. The overhead stove light blazed away—for how long I knew not. And at what cost! From the front. Door, through the living room and den to the back door, chocolate-colored footsteps added a new note to the color harmony of my rooms, and indicated clearly the route the circulation had taken. I followed the footsteps to my back patio. Conveniently, there was grandfather's rocker. I sank in comfort into it, as I thought: I have a home with seven C's of home planning. What a lucky mother! MY SONGS I sang when I was happy, My song was glad and free, And one who heard my singing Shared happine
