[Vol55 | April 1968 | Page 289 | General Feature | Significant Day Annie | C. Esplin]
Don Knight Significant Day Annie C. Esplin =» The smell of frying homemade sausage teased my nostrils. Drowsily, I turned in bed, catching a glimpse of light peeking through the bedroom door. An impact of shivery anticipation assailed me as I became fully aware of the importance of the dawning day. We were going with our father to take the grist to the mill—a journey five miles up the valley, with an added five miles back home to prolong the yearly adventure. My two younger sisters awakened. Hopping out of bed, our actions assumed a definite purpose. We donned calico sack aprons, with matching sunbonnets starched to a prim stiffness; hoping that there would be no delay of departure. Mother opened the door to the magic of her cozy kitchen. The coal-oil lamp glowed over the breakfast table, which was spread with a snowy cover. Chairs were placed, with high backs to the table, ready for morning prayers. Father emerged from outside with a bucket of foamy milk in one hand and a lantern in the other. Sensing our eagerness, he smiled with satisfaction, loving an opportunity to gladden our hearts. The sun glazed at us inspiringly from the top of White Mountain, as the team obligingly pulled the wagon and us up the lane to begin the trip. We all settled happily in the spring seat. The wagon box creaked, adjusting itself to hold sacks of wheat, while wheels turned in accompaniment to steady clip-clop of horses' hooves. The road meandered enticingly, rewarding us with surprises of nature at her best—busy, small folk of the animal kingdom, ducks in the creek, red and gold autumn leaves on a hillside lookout. Going down a steep bank, splashing through the creek, we came face to face with a huge structure which was the grist mill. As we climbed out of the wagon, we could hear it groan and shudder as the bulky machinery performed to its utmost capacity. A genial miller, powdered with flour dust, greeted us. He and Father were forced to shout to each other. Our wheat was unloaded, and by thorough process, turned from golden grain into white flour. Going home in tranquil Indian summer twilight, our childish voices accompanied Father's fine tenor in a rendition of "Love at Home." Singing of home reminded me of our brand new phonograph, with elegant morning-glory horn, which was at the very moment resplendent on the center table in the parlor. At night, in our comfortable bed with a fresh outdoor aroma of the corn shuck tick, my thoughts turned to the precious sacks of flour stored with our winter supply of food; abundant granary and barn. Wise, industrious Father and Mother! I felt secure—aware of the fact "all is well." As I sank into untroubled slumber, a singing happiness was in my heart. Peace and quiet reigned in our valley home. 289 The Sky Is Blue Again Sylvia Probst Young #® On a day in late autumn, when the clouds hung oppresively low and a mournful wind cried through the bare, brown trees, I closed my door and walked hurriedly across the field to the home of a friend. My thoughts, as I walked along, were dark as the day. I was lonely, disappointed, sick at heart, feeling that life had hurt me more than I could bear. Nothing seemed really worthwhile anymore. I needed to talk to someone—I wanted sympathy, and so I went to her—a woman who is my friend. She was in her little garden behind the house, digging some carrots for the soup she was making. "It's the kind of a day for good, homemade vegetable soup," she exclaimed, after greeting me warmly. "Come in, I have a nice fire, and we can talk." I apologized for coming so unexpectedly, but she quickly corrected me, "Friends don't need previous appointments; it's a compliment to have you come whenever you will.". Sitting on her worn divan, I talked, and she listened, sitting close beside me, her eyes deep with feeling and understanding, she heard my bitterness and heartache, she shared my tears. Her hand, rough from work and knotted by arthritis, lay gently on mine. I felt the strength of her, the comfort she gave without saying a word—she who had known so much of sorrow herself. When the soup was done, she brought it in on a tray, with homemade bread and apricot marmalade, and I thought it was the best lunch I had ever had. Too quickly the hour passed, and it was time for me to go. I didn't want to, but I knew that I must. At the door [ put an arm around her.