[Vol55 | April 1968 | Page 249 | Special Feature | Open the Door Through The Relief Society Magazine Jack | D. Blodgett]
small part of the effort expended and the good that is done can be recorded in the minutes, roll books, and reports. A Voice That Reaches An organization like this must have a voice that can reach out into the homes of the sisters of the Church regularly, to lift, instruct, and inspire them. This voice is The Relief Society Magazine. It is a marvelous blessing to have membership in this Church, and an opportunity for service and _ self-development, to have been called and appointed to an

[Open the Door Through The Relief Society Magazine Jack D. Blodgett]

249 April 1968

 assignment. Now we are assuming, for the purposes of our discussion, that all of you have an important assignment, that of representing the Magazine in your stake or mission, even though, today, some of you may be wearing more than one hat. My purpose today is threefold: first, to impress upon you the quality and magnitude of the Magazine; second, to provide some practical helps in fulfilling your calling as a Magazine representative; third, if time permits, a personal testimony. The Opened Door I appreciate the theme of this session: Open the Door Through The Relief Society Magazine. When first we read it, there came to mind the words of the Master, as recorded in Revelation 3:20: Behold, I stand at the door and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him and will sup with him, and he with me. We remember what President David O. McKay said to a group of missionaries in reference to this verse of scripture. In essence he said, no matter what your task in the Church may be, when you go forth in the strength of your calling, the Lord goes with you, for there are many ways to "knock at the door," and blessed is he or she who hears and answers. Looking at it in this light, perhaps we can gain a different perspective for our calling. Quality and Magnitude of Magazine Now a word about the quality and magnitude of your Magazine. The following comments were 250 made by the wife of an eastern university president when she obtained a copy of The Relief Society Magazine from a friend. I took the copy home with me out of courtesy, and not really intending to read it. But then, out of curiosity, I began to glance through the pages, stopping to read an article by David O. McKay. This led us to read it through. It has been a long time since we have seen any magazine that so impressed us with its lofty principles, and useful information for women. We could not find one blemish of off-color material, nor was it suggestive in any way, which as we all know, is a rarity today. From this we have become interested in other Mormon literature. We cannot attempt to assess the impact of the Magazine fully. Just how do you determine or measure how much it meant in. The life of a sweet soul who joined the Church, and, because of the attitude of her husband, was denied any association with her Church. She couldn't attend her meetings, nor affiliate in any way. Her contact with the Church severed, she was heartbroken, and then an idea occurred, perhaps he will let me subscribe to a Church publication. She pled with him, and at last he agreed, but just one. Her choice was The Relief Society Magazine, and for six and one half years, this was her only contact with the Church. The only voice! Magazine Production The task of producing the Magazine is a formidable one. We are now (September 1967) printing, in the English edition, approximately 260,000 Magazines each month. Each issue requires about forty giant rolls of paper, 56,000 pounds, nearly a railroad car Open the Door Through The Relief Society Magazine and one half, or twenty-eight tons. If you could stretch this out in a continuous length, it would reach out for 225 miles thirty-five inches wide.

Many people are part of the team required to do the job: the Magazine editorial staff, contributing writers from the Church, artists, production coordinators, typositors, lithographic technicians, cameramen, color experts, plate makers, pressmen, binders, deliverymen, mailers, saleswomen, and office workers are all instrumental in providing this excellent publication each and every month. A FEW PRACTICAL HELPS ON SELLING THE MAGAZINE If there is one thing we have learned in twenty years of selling, it is this: There are hundreds of volumes and countless booklets published on the subject of salesmanship, each one filled with methods of sure-fire success, and you may have some of these, as we do. However, we believe these can be condensed into four main points, keeping in mind that you are functioning in the Lord's work. 1. Be prepared with the facts. 2. Know where you are going. 3. Make the calls. 4. Ask for the order. These four items suggest several sub-headings, and we shall mention a few of these. BE PREPARED WITH THE FACTS 1. Become familiar with your product and know what is inside. 2. Know the subscription rate. (We once encountered a_ representative who didn't.) 3.. Know the expiration dates on subscriptions in your territory. 4. Know how the Magazine will be sent to the homes and about when it will arrive. 5. Know how to issue a receipt properly. 6. Compile a simple "sales kit" that may contain, among other items: a. Some sample copies of the Magazine. B. The pertinent facts. C. A good success story about the Magazine. D. Receipt book, pen, and calendar. E. A list of advantages in having the Magazine in the home. F. Some of your own creativity. 7. Know something about the sisters you will call upon. KNOW WHERE YOU ARE GOING 1. Secure an up-to-date listing of the sisters of your ward or branch. 2. Check the names and addresses for accuracy. 3. Make an appointment and define a time limit for it. 4. Be on time and hold to the time limit. 5. Know something about the sisters you will call on, so your presentation can be tailor-made to suit each situation that you may encounter. MAKE THE CALLS Go out prayerfully. Face to face, is best. Be enthusiastic. Be sold yourself, first. Mention some of the advantages of the Magazine. Sell benefits! A. The Magazine specifically designed for the sisters of the Church. B. It has high standards. C. It contains messages from the prophet to the women of the Church. It is fun to read. Educational. Informative. It contains lesson material. It contains special features. Its literary value is high. J. It is a valuable source reference. PA E> £2 ES pa mm B Make your calls brief. There is a classic story on this point. It has to do with Pat Donahue of the Ortho-Vent Shoe Company, Salem, Virginia. He is a salesman 

251 April 1968

 who cannot talk or hear. He is a deaf mute. But he is the company's number-one salesman, having sold twenty-five pairs of shoes his first week. And he does it with a series of simple cards that briefly state his purpose, the product's advantages, and the price. Show the product—the Magazine. Never argue. You may win the argument, but you will probably lose the sale. Bring out the hidden objection, perhaps it is a just one. ASK FOR THE ORDER— CLOSE THE SALE The choice-question is one of the best ways to close the sale. For example: "Do you want to pay for your Magazine with cash or check?" "Shall we have the first issue begin with October or November?" Whatever you do ask for the order! If an objection iv di 4 y) yy ge ¢ eo a 4 Y SS BREATH OF SPRING An unseen hand seemed urging me to come, To leave the sheltered warmth, the draperied gloom, The lifeless air imprisoned in my room. Too long had winter held this garrison. The rich, brown loam emerging from the crust Of glittering snowbanks, shrinking in the sun, Will yield her buried treasures, one by one, The hidden seeds and cones, now held in trust. I answer spring's faint call and venture out; The sun enfolds me in its lovely light. A golden bee upon its first spring flight Wings by, a gay and lovely gadabout. Ali nature seems to herald a rebirth When springtime comes to wake the sleeping earth. Is raised, consider it, then go back over the strong selling points and close again. Now, in conclusion, we hope that you will remember, above all, that you are serving your Heavenly Father in a way that can bring light and encouragement to the sisters in your area.