[Vol55 | April 1968 | Page 261 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere | Ramona W. Cannon]
(To be continued) Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon Mignon Ritchie, R. N., a consultant in the Utah State Health Division's Heart Program, is an authority on nursing techniques for heart patients. She presented a paper on ''The Nurse's Role in Congestive Failure of the Geriatric Patient,"' at the clinical session of the American Nursing Association meeting at Philadelphia in November 1967. The address was repeated at the meeting of the Nursing Association in Kansas City, later in November. Miss Ettie Lee, philanthropist and humanitarian, was honored as ''Woman of the Year,' at Brigham Young University in December 1967. Miss Lee has given many years of her life, and a considerable fortune to the establishment of homes for boys. She now owns twenty homes in Utah and California, each one directed by men and women who have ''plenty of love, understanding, and experience.'' Headquarters for the Ettie Lee Homes is the David Lee Ranch, Mapleton, Utah. Dr. Jeanne S. Chall, Professor of Education in the Harvard Graduate School of Education, is author of a new book Learning to Read (McGraw Hill). Dr. Chall's academic life has been spent investigating how children learn to read and the most effective methods for teaching the fundamentals of reading. Winifred Gérin is author of Charlotte Bronte: The Evolution of Genius (Oxford University Press). This biography of a remarkably gifted author presents the complex nature of genius. The story of Charlotte's long struggle toward self-realization is told ''with sympathetic detachment, its drama kept under firm control, its poetry adding an occasional burst of color." Savannah Cross Lockey, graduate of Stanford University, rancher, and director of a cattlemen's association, is owner and manager of the Blu-Flame Gas Company of Texas. Ida A. Tsaacson, Salt Lake City, Utah, was the winner for 1967 in the professional category for her essay ''Reflections While Standing Before the Lincoln Memorial," an award given by the Utah State Historical Society for meritorious writing on the historical significance of the life and accomplishments of ''the Great Emancipator."' Buffy Sainte-Marie, Cree Indian, is winning laurels in the musical world for her compositions and her singing of folk music, with ''a beautifully tremulous voice...
