[Vol47 | July 1960 | Sequence: 05 | Category: General Feature | Title: Editorial | Author: Sharp]
[Editorial: Family Vacationing Marianne C. Sharp]
Interested parents with the en- EDITORIAL thusiastic help of older children can carefully map out and plan visits to new industries and ventures close at home. It is an unusual countryside today which does not offer interesting developments nearby. It takes very little money to bring a feeling of accomplishment and satisfaction to children. 'The fact that the entire family is going someplace together is usually enough to ensure a good time. Such an outing teaches children to give and take and learn to share and do things together. Wise parents will make vacations fit into the family budget, so that when the vacation is over the enjoyment is not marred by debts. Planning within the budget is a les- 443 son needed by every family memDer. During the long winter evenings ahead, happy remembrances of last year's vacation at family hours will mingle with animated discussions on the forthcoming one. Father and mother may draw every member of the family closer as they unite on planning a vacation which will exemplify family standards and ideals. As the children grow into their teens trips to gambling meccas and high priced entertainments will not be a glamorous allurement. Instead, a vacation will mean careful budgeting and obtaining values of eternal worth. —M. CS. <> Special Sean Orci Postponed The General Board regrets that through circumstances beyond its control, the special surprise feature for the July Magazine which was announced in the April 1960 issue had to be postponed, and is now scheduled to appear in the August Magazine. Watch for the August Magazine, and be sure that your subscription is up to date so that you will not miss this special feature issue. <<} Her Patterned stace Tris W. Schow Designs Grandmother knit into her lace, The fan, the double rose leaf, and the shell, Remain like fossil imprints one can trace In ancient stone, and have their tales to tell Of days not idly spent. I pause to look, And feel as if I saw recorded there The mild bow of her smile, the open book Of purity that was her life, her hair Parted and curving back like silver wings. I sense the light touch that she left, who laid Aside the garden tools and milking things For needles; changes found her unafraid. Age brought her toil-creased hands, not rest's confinement, But free expression of her soul's refinement. Page 444 PIONEER HOME OF MELISSA JANE BIGLER LAMBSON AND ALFRED B. LAMBSON This home stood on the northeast corner of North Temple and First West Streets, Salt Lake City, Utah. Gane Gar en Alice Morrey Bailey Great-grandma's garden grew unplanned From traded "slip" and "start," Mementos of a distant land Still verdant in her heart. Sweet williams edged the pieplant stalk; The squashes' prickled vine Ran not with the hollyhock. Beans vied with columbine. Too long she knew the desert's thirst, Its ruthless hunger-need, To choose a lilac's beauty first Above corn's nutrient seed, But vines can arch with climbers' grace The crudely handmade beam, And weld with Queen Anne's silver lace The lean-to's awkward seam. No matter what her walls and roof— Adobe, log, or stone— With flower and leaf her moral proof, She claimed this spot her own. Summer Picnic Leone E. McCune ACH y 1% finally emerged from its blankets of snow and _ ice, and the first signs of spring — crocuses and buttercups, thrust their yellow heads upward on the cold damp hills, I would begin to dream of summer days when I could go with Papa to our farm, about six miles from our home. I was the eldest of the family of five and should have been a boy, I guess. My little brother would grow up in time, though. School was wonderful, but as the spring days grew warmer, these dreams intruded themselves more and more often across the pages of my textbooks. Papa had always been patient with his three little girls, who frequently waited for him at the top of a hill about two blocks from our home. From a vantage point in our back yard, Mama would keep an eye on us. Papa would jump down from his high load of sweet smelling hay, when he saw us waiting. He would boost each one of us up on top, then spring up beside us, and we would go merrily off on our short ride to the barn. In the mornings, if his chores kept him around the garden or barns later than usual, we sometimes wakened early enough to ride in the empty wagon to the hilltop. After he had lifted each one of us down, we would watch until he disappeared out of sight down the long lane. Then, gathering mayapples on the grassy walk, we would eat the pungent little yellow balls on our way home to breakfast. Ear when our valley Now I was more grown-up and school was out at last. June — dandelion and plum blossom laden, arrived. 'There was no more beautiful place in the world than our farm in summer. 'The valley was surrounded by green wooded hills. Two sides of the farm were almost enclosed by green willows that grew along the banks, their tips trailing in the streams. Lucerne, with its purple-blue flowers, covered the undulated land like a blue and green carpet. Across these acres on the south side, a field of wheat was growing. In September it would be a waving carpet of gold. And over it all was the inverted bow! Of blue sky. Sometimes I stayed all day at the farm, riding the hay rake, the mowing machine, or whatever Papa was working that day. If I did not go for the whole day I drove my little brown pony hitched to our buggy, taking Papa a hot lunch, which we enjoyed together. Then we would try a little fishing before starting to work. 'There were two streams running through our farm, one swift and filled with delicious little brook trout, easy to catch. The other stream was larger, and in one place logs and stones caused an obstruction, creating quite a good sized pool. A clump of trees grew here, and the water was quiet and clear. We could see large fish swimming around, speckled herring, Papa said. We would bait our hooks and lie flat on our stomachs, fascinated, scarcely daring to breathe. "See," he would whisper, "that fellow was here last year. The same Page 445 446 ones come back every year." We would watch, I hoping to catch one, yet half hoping they'd be smart enough to refuse our bait. We never caught any of the large ones. HEN the days were extremely hot, Papa urged me to take a test under the trees and read my book, which [ always brought along. I would sink down on the grassy bank, where I could smell the water and the fish. Always the fragrance of growing things, the hay newly cut, pervaded the air with sweetness. Sometimes, deep in the pages of Little Women, Good Wives, Robinson Crusoe, and many others, I would forget where I was until some sound brought me back to reality. Then, apologetically, 'd go out to join Papa. He never seemed to mind. I was probably more of a nuisance than a help, anyway. He just liked having me around. If a storm threatened and the work piled up, he could always hire Jens to help us out, as he frequently did. Such joyful summer days they were! And the most special were the days when Mama brought the children and a hot meal out to Papa and me. We would spread a redcheckered tablecloth on the grass in the shade. Each child carried something to the picnic table from RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 the buggy. Papa unharnessed the mare and let her graze while we ate. There before us were spread Mama's home-baked bread and the butter that she had churned, little new potatoes and green peas in white sauce, string beans, beets in sweetened vinegar, and roast beef hot from the pan. All the vegetables were from our garden. There was milk from our cow, kept cold in the cellar. Mama's white cake with chocolate icing topped the meal that has never to my mind in all the years following found its superior. It was such a joy to see Mama and Papa relaxing and having fun with the family, however briefly. They were such busy people, except on Sundays when all the work waited while we went to church. After the picnic was over Papa hitched up the mare, and the children carried the dishes and utensils under Mama's supervision to the buggy. Papa helped the little ones up into the seats, and Mama left for home to put the little ones to bed. Then Papa and I worked until it was too dark to see any longer. On these rare evenings when we stayed, the big moon came up over the hills and flooded us with its glory as we turned the horses' heads toward home. ~~ Poverty Grace Ingles Frost Not to see the gold that gilds the sun, Not to hear rare tones in brooks that run Buoyantly with beauty's rhythmic voice, Not with blithesome songsters to rejoice, Not to share in children's lightsome glee, Is naught but abject poverty to me. In Memory of Miss Ollie Pauline L. Jensen O one ever knew the reasons why Miss Ollie and her parents chose to settle in our small mid-Western town. It was, indeed, a far cry from the Massachusetts coastal village where Miss Ollie's father had plied his trade as a sea captain. The town seethed with curiosity, and the most popular belief, and one that endured through the years, was that Miss Ollie had been disappointed in love, and that her parents had taken her as far from the scene of sorrow as was possible. Bred in the tradition of New England, Miss Ollie kept her counsel, and if she cherished any grief, it stayed within the confines of her heart. There certainly was nothing to indicate a grieving maiden about Miss Ollie. With her small, erect figure, and dark, sparkling eyes framed in heavy lashes, she was the embodiment of beauty as portrayed by the artists in the years just preceding the twentieth century. Her blue-black hair was pulled severely back from the oval face and fashioned in a bun at the nape of her neck. 'This only served to accent her patrician features and emphasize the luminous quality in her eyes. It was just before the turn of the century that Miss Ollie and her parents settled down in the neat white house on Elm Street. The town, a river port, was rough and well supplied with taverns, but short on culture. The thing Miss Ollie missed the most was a library. With the help of a small group of Born andfriends, and backed by several of the civic organizations, she set up a small "book exchange," open to the public, tending it herself, and receiving no remuneration in a fnancial way. The popularity of the "lending" library brought home to the city fathers the need of something better. An outgrown, abandoned tworoom schoolhouse was commandeered, and it was there that Miss Ollie began her career, which was to last for over forty years. Right from the start, Miss Ollie knew her patrons' likes and dislikes, in the book world. She also guessed, and accurately so, the possibilities that lay within each person. In confidence she heard their woes, their joys, their fears, and dreams. Miss Ollie listened well. "We got some new kittens, Miss Ollie," a child would say. Miss Ollie's eyes would brighten. "Then you want this book. It's about a cat, Miss Muffett, and it tells how she teaches manners to her babies." A happy child would trudge off clutching tightly the book that would increase her knowledge of the animal world. "Ma is sick, and wonders would you pick out some books for her to read?" a lad would question. Miss Ollie knew the kind of books Ma liked — light love stories. She would choose a few, and then pick up one of the classics. Casually, she would say: "I wonder if your mother would like this one? It's one of my favorites. I read it over and over and never tire of it." Miss Ollie knew the message Page 447 448 would be repeated word for word. Like as not Ma, herself, would return the books, and would shyly say, "I liked that book. It was real nice. Have you another something like it?" Miss Ollie had, and got it for her promptly. OMETIMES it was a pre-teen child, bored with the limited number of books available in that bracket. Miss Ollie would hold aloft a book of Dickens, and look thoughtful. "Now here is one, but I'm afraid it's much too hard for you." Curiosity would bring the child closer. 'Then Miss Ollie would nod her head and state, "No, I don't think it is too hard! You're a bright child, and I think you'd understand it! Anyway it's fun to look words up in the dictionary." A beaming child would clasp the book to her. Indeed she would read it. If Miss Ollie thought she could understand it, then she could! A shame-faced boy would face Miss Ollie across the dark oak desk. "Pa says I can't take out any more books. Says it's just a waste of time." Miss Ollie sat in silence for a moment. She knew Pa's guarded secret. He could barely write his name, and could read only a dozen words or so. "Why don't I send some books to your Father?" she said, gathering up a few. "It might be that he would get so interested in them that he'd understand how much reading means to you." Pa, himself, returned the books and took out more. Until his death, Pa never missed a week of getting books at the library. He RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 would walk down Main Street, the books conspicuously displayed, as he stopped and chatted with friends. Miss Ollie not only listened well, but kept other people's secrets. For all her kindliness, Miss Ollie was not one to be imposed upon or treated disrespectfully. The roughest and the toughest high school boys quailed before the look she gave them when they had infringed upon a library law. And the culprit who defaced a book was brought swiftly to justice. "Books," Miss Ollie said, "are to be loved and cherished. 'They give so much and ask only gentle treatment in return." Miss Ollie's saddened eyes upon the torn or marked book were harder for the guilty one to bear than a fine or hard scolding. The rich, the poor, the lettered and unlettered, the young and old, all made their way to Miss Ollie's haven. "Miss Ollie, I'd like to be a teacher, but I have no money," a high school student told her. "There'll be a way!" Miss Ollie's voice was confident. 'There was a way. On graduation, the student found a scholarship and part-time job awaiting her. Mh» Ollie carefully scrutinized the bandage a teen-age boy had applied to his dog's swollen leg. "I cleaned the wound out real well, and now the swelling's down a lot." Miss Ollie nodded. "You did a good job. You'd make a fine doctor!" "That's what I'd like to be, Miss Ollie. But I don't know — maybe I'm not smart enough. Besides, it costs a lot of money." "You're smart enough, and some- IN MEMORY OF MISS OLLIE how you will find the money." And thus the seeds were sown, which came to fruit some fifteen years Jater. "Miss Ollie, do you have a book of poems?" a chubby, pig-tailed little girl inquired. Miss Ollie smiled with pleasure, and piled the books into the waiting arms. Could she have had any inkling that throughout her life this child would love poetry, and writing would become her vocation? The years sped so quickly that at times it seemed unbelievable to Miss Ollie that she was now serving second and third generations. But, mostly, she was far too busy to think in terms of time. Retirement had no meaning to her. The townspeople would no more think of retiring Miss Olle than of burning down the new, enlarged library. Then, suddenly, Miss Ollie's fortysixth anniversary as town librarian was there. It was a gala occasion, and all day people made their way 449 through the library doors to pay homage to a gracious lady, seated regally in a big chair that engulfed her small figure. All day the gifts, the telegrams, the visitors poured in. From far and near they grected her, recalling to her mind the years that seemed but days ago. When it was all over, Miss Ollie got down from her chair. "Plcase," she said to friends who lingered to take her home, "just leave me alonc here for awhile. I want to think of all that today has brought, and live again some of those memories that have been reviewed by today's events." And that was where they found her a few hours later, when they called back to get her. She was seated in the swivel chair behind the desk, with hands folded. Miss Olhe had left her heart where it belcnged — in the small town lhibrary, where her wise and kindly influence had helped to shape, for better, the lives of many people. -o———- Jo a Pioneer Mlother Mabel Jones Gabbott Sun-streaked for centuries and soaked with heat The valley floor was fire, even to feet Torn and toughened by the weary walk Down prairie grass and mountain sage and rock. Within a thousand miles, there were no shoes.... What did you do, little mother? What did you use? The earth was dust and waste. No greening plant Freshened your wary gaze; the food was scant; Prudently, mile by mile, you had weighed Each child his meted share. Were you afraid? How did you teach your little ones to care For sego lily roots and cricket fare? What did you do, little mother, when the wind blew cold About the dugout home? It was hard to hold The canvas door against the snow, piled Like hoary wolves; the elements were wild And ruthless and untamed. What did you do, Little Mother? "I kept the faith for you." (Bazaar Sewing — Multi-Purpose Bag Jean R. Jennings AZAARS! — Bazaars! — Bazaars! What shall we do about bazaars? Everyone has them. The big problem is "How can we improve them?" 'That is, how can women spend less time in making more profit and eliminate wasted effort? Obviously, this would involve bazaar items that have a small initial cost and take a minimum of time to make. 'Too frequently women spend precious time making fussy things that bring only a small revyenue. Some thought should also be given to the possible usefulness of the articles to the buyer. This bag is useful, appealing, and involves a very minimum of expense to make. In addition, it ls simple enough even for beginning sewers and takes little time. This is a bag designed as a travel case for jewelry. It could also be turned into a party bag for teenagers and young women. Enlarged, and made of sturdier material, it would serve as a tote-bag and double for carrying handwork. Make this bag as lovely or elegant as you can from scraps of material left over from dressy and formal dresses. If you don't have pieces, collect some from friends and neighbors who have made brocaded or embroidered gowns. Fabrics with silver or gold threads woven through are effective to use. Line the bags with gay pieces of contrasting or blending satins, taffetas, or crepes that you may have bundled up and saved. For large-sized tote bags, unearth drapery or upholstery remnants, or pieces of decorative denim or chintz. Page 450 Line these with the same fabric or pieces of gingham, muslin, or polished cotton. For the jewelry-size or party-size bags you will need circles of cloth as follows: One circle each of fabric and lining 12 inches in diameter. One circle each of fabric and lining 9 inches in diameter. One circle of cardboard 3% inches in diameter. In addition, the bag calls for 1% yards of cord or narrow ribbon for drawstrings and 4o inches of beading or open braid to serve as casing for draw-strings. Small rings may be sewed on the edge in place of braid. If so, 16 will be needed. O make the bag, begin by sewing the circles of lining to the circles of fabric, right sides together. Take % inch seams and leave three inches unsewed to allow for turning. Then turn circles right side out, slip stitch together unstitched portions of the edges, and baste and press seams flat. Next center the cardboard circle on the lining side of the large circle of fabric. Place the smaller circle over it with the lining against the cardboard. Baste in place and then stitch around the cardboard on the machine as close as possible. See illustration. Now make pockets to hold earrings or small jeweled pins by stitching on the machine as shown in the illustration. If the bag is to be used as a party purse, pockets may be made in sizes to fit comb, compact, lipstick, etc. 'The center section of BAZAAR SEWING RINGS FOR ORAW STRINGS {2"CIRCLE OF LINED CLOTH - oe a or N 451 ¥~ START ONE DRAW =) STRING HERE RCLE OF D CLOTH 32" CIRCLE OF ann —————-4 CARDBOARD-SEWED \ BETWEEN 2 LARGER } CIRCLES wee 1. STITCHING LINE FOR POCKETS Ts, START ONE DRAW C) STRING HERE wav the bag, made either way, will hold larger articles. Sew beading or braid to the edge of the larger circle, cut ribbon or cord in half and thread through for drawstrings. 'Tie ends of each together. If rings are used, sew them to the edge, spacing them evenly. A casing may be made for drawstrings by sewing the lining to the outside, making a channel all around the edge. If this is done, the large circles should be cut an inch wider to allow for it. A few beads or sequins, placed attractively, can do much to dress up the bag made to carry for formal parties. It would be unwise to spend a great deal of time doing this, as it may not add enough value to warrant the time and energy used. When this pattern is enlarged and used for a sturdier bag, remember to use firmer cardboard for the bottom. When enlarging the circles, be sure they keep the proportions approximately the same. Pockets may be stitched in sizes to fit the purpose for which the bag is made. Rings are better to hold the strings on larger bags, since the circle is too large to close with beading on the edge. Bone and metal rings are available in drapery departments or at notion counters.