[Vol47 | July 1960 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Fiction | Title: Joy or | Author: Luce]
[Joy or Sorrow Celia Luce]

It was built right after the big gold rush up here in nineteen four. At that time it was the most beautiful house in 'Tanana Valley. Most of the Clairmonts' have died. The place is now-owned by a niece who lives in San' Francisco. It doesn't sell: because she wants too much money for it. It's too large and expensive for a family — the university should take it for a dormitory." "We must find a place real soon," Sharry said again. "This is our friend's apartment — Marie McFarland." "Yes, I know Marie," Sister Jensen said. "And we've 'met her daddy. 'She comes to church regularly when she's in town." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 "She's such fun," Sharry said. Sister Jensen looked at Sharry as though studying her. "Ive been wondering, dear. About a house, I mean. I do know of a place." "You do!" Sharry's eyes were luminous. "How wonderful!' "It's not what you think," she answered quickly. "It's not wonderful. But it could be fixed up until you build a house of your own. It's an old log cabin across the river from town. It belongs to us. We lived there until we built our new home about a block away. When my husband was living, he let our farm helpers live there in the summertime. I don't use it now. It's an old place — run down." Her voice trailed off, almost apologetically. Sharry felt a surge of tenderness for her kindly offer. "Td like to see it," she said. "I'll tell Sam about it when he comes home. We're expecting to get our secondhand car sometime today. So we'll drive over this evening." "Anytime." Sister Jensen stood up. "But please don't expect too much, Sharry. I don't want you to be disappointed." UT Sharry was disappointed when she saw the cabin that evening. "It does look awful, I know," Sister Jensen was saying as they walked from the long board-walled living room into the kitchen. Sharry's eyes blinked when she saw the old worn-out sink and the coal range. They looked like something out of a junk yard. The linoleum had huge, ragged bare spots. Sam's eyes were going over every- ORCHIDS IN THE SNOW thing in his quiet, calculating way. "It could be fixed up," he said. Sharry gave him a startled glance. Sam was serious. He was really considering living in this place. She could tell by the look in his eyes. "New linoleum won't cost very much," Sister Jensen suggested. "You can look through the wishbooks and find lots of things cheaper." "W/ish-books?" Sharry questioned. "Our mail-order catalogues," she explained. "We call them our wish-books. Women are _ always wishing for something new. They help us get what we need." "We could calcimine _ these walls," Sam said. "Sharry likes color. She can have her choice of colors. 'I'here's a new sort of calcimine now that dries in a few hours." Sharry pretended she didn't hear him. How could he consider living in this run-down old place? How could he! And yet, looking at him now, as he went from room to room, sizing it up, she knew he was considering it. "The floors in here could be oiled," Sister Jensen said as they went back into the living room. "That old lounge won't look half bad with a bright new cover. The chairs and table are old, but they're an interesting style. They could be lacquered." The sun slanted through the windows, showing up the cracks in the old wooden floor. How ridiculous to think of living here, Sharry thought. She would die of loneliness in a place like this. The memory of her beautiful gold and pink bedroom at home struck across her heart. She felt almost sick, 463 "The bedroom is small," Sister Jensen was saying. "But there is a good bathroom, with a shower. My husband. Was a contractor.— he built many of the homes in Fairbanks. One thing he insisted on was good plumbing fixtures. Even this cabin has good plumbing. Of course, the water comes from a well down below. You must not drink the water as it tastes of vegetables. We all buy our drinking water." Sam said, his eyes clear and steady with his engineer look: "The place is well built. I think it would be quite livable. We can get some sort of floor covering. Sharry is used to carpet. I want her to be comfortable." ISTER Jensen smiled. "Forgive me if I give you too much advice — I am just eager to help you. I had thought my own daughter and her husband would live here for awhile — then he got this fine position in Nome...." Her voice trailed off, wistfully. "I was thinking about carpet," she went on, in a moment. "It's too expensive to use unless the house is a permanent home. Some of these new linoleums with scatter rugs would be comfortable and pretty. If you want to use the cabin until you build, you can have it for almost nothing — I would enjoy having you nearby." Sharry couldn't breathe. She felt trapped and smothered. Sam was looking at her. What was the question in his eyes? What did he expect of her? "It's up to my wife," he said to Sister Jensen. "I think we could do all right here until we buy a home. But I want Sharry to be contented. It's up to Sharry." 464 There was an ache in his voice. A yearning for something. Sharry bent her head, trying to swallow the sob in her throat. Her brother Kenny's teasing voice came back to her: "Sam is used to roughing it on long, hard engineering jobs. He's used to living in a trailer or a tent. He'll expect a real woman to make a home for him. And what'll he get? A doll baby!" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 Slowly she lifted her head and met Sam's anxious eyes. Her heart reached out to him, loving him, wanting to be a good wife to him. She had to prove she could make a home for him even in this ramshackle old cabin. "Let's take it, Sam," she heard herself saying. "I'll try, darling — to make it — lovely — for you." (To be continued) Solitude Catherine B. Bowles The silence of Cumorah's hill Stole over the place, quiet and still. Through the woodland I wandered alone With trials, troubles, a cross of my own. A tranquil spirit soothed my fears, Calmed my heart and dried my tears. Through nature's garden I walked unseen, Feeling his presence, peaceful, serene. \Cronce, Women Christie Lund Coles Into the too-small wagons, loaded deep, (With things most precious from the young years spent Acquiring treasures that the heart would keep) She puts the most valued, those that are meant To last a lifetime in an alien place. Tokens, perhaps, to bring back memories Of warmth and comfort, each familiar face Left in a world of happiness and ease. Across the miles she rides as stoically As one born to the hardship and the tears, Rather than to a mild gentility, And loving assurance through her tender years. Upon her lips she tastes the gray of dust, Yet faces proudly everything she must. Hulda Parker, General Secretary-Treasurer All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Handbook of Instructions of the Relief Society. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Adele S. Willden YAKIMA STAKE (WASHINGTON) FIRST FULLY ORGANIZED RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD Left to right: Ruth Peabody, organist; LaVern Jackson, work mecting leader; Almira Ferrell, theology class leader; Barbara Blackhurst, Secretary; Leona Wood, First Counselor; Adele S. Willden, President; Ann Johnson, Magazine representative; Miriam Werner, social science class leader; Jean Christensen, literature class leader; Iclen Allen, organist; (two members absent). Sister Willden reports: '""Yakima Stake was organized in May 1959, and the stake Relief Society shortly after. This is the first time that our board has been completely organized.