[Vol47 | July 1960 | Sequence: 08 | Category: Fiction | Title: Yarn | Author: Larson]
YARN STITCHED BAG MADE OF CHAIR WEBBING Dt STEP No. 3 Do yarn stitching to cover the machine stitching. STEP No. 4 Sew the thirty-two inch strip ends together, to form body of bag. STEP No. 5 Sew on the twenty inch handle piece and fit in the fiftcen-inch bottom piece. Step No. 6 Sew in lining. Use material to match the light shade of yarn used. STEP No. 7 Sew on beads if desired. ~—— HANDLE 20" USE SAME COLOR LINING AS THE LIGHT COLOR ADD BEADS _ [Strerzzeredcs Mectlewweweeeccce] «YARN USED HERE \F, DESIRED TNl-—SEAM I I THREE > STRIPS 32" SS it 5 BETSe ee i IS" BOTTOM \ /; ROUND CORNERS WHEN SEWING TOGETHER vai AP ni aseiii a3 Anna I Gensen Begins Housekeeping — Again — at Gighty-Tline ANN M. Jensen of Cornish, Utah, two years ago, at the age of eighty-nine, decided that she would like to live alone in a home of her own and be her own housekeeper again. Several years ago Mrs. Jensen was so seriously ill that she was persuaded to give up housekeeping for herself and make her children happy by having their mother with them so that she might receive constant, loving care. However, as soon as she was well again, and young again, as she said, she went back to housekeeping for herself. [ler Relief Society sisters in the ward had a "household shower" for Sister — Jensen, and she invited her old friends to come to her home for the long-remembered treats of Danish cooking. She is shown in the picture at her "shower." This was part of a pattern of independence established by Anna M. Jensen when she became a widow thirty-seven years ago. She supported herself and her family by weaving rugs and doing other types of handwork and housework. Many rugs were presented as gifts to the young people of the community, and her neighbors among the newlyweds could count on receiving one of Grandma Jensen's rugs. Mrs. Jensen, once a counselor in the Relief Society in Copenhagen, Denmark, still attends her meetings regularly, and in her own life practices the charitable ways so dear to her heart. Three of her eight children are living; she is grandmother to fifteen and great-grandmother to twenty-two ns Test mon y Marvel Sharp Crookston As ebb and flow of water on a beach, My testimony strengthens or recede, In rhythm to the way [I live my _ life; Directly in accordance with my deeds.