[Vol47 | July 1960 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Fiction | Title: In | Author: Jensen]
[In Memory of Miss Ollie Pauline L. Jensen]

As the afternoon waned, Sandra's anger waned and her confusion increased. Van would never approve 438 of what she had done — but he didn't know half of what went on. There was the sweater, for instance. Van had been in need of a sweater. Sandra, without telling him, did some typing for a woman downstairs. Each page she typed she laid aside with the exhilarating thought of the surprise and _ pleasure Van would know on his birthday. She had priced sweaters carefully and lovingly. 'The one she wanted to buy was $39.95. 'The one she finally bought was $24.95. Placed beside the more expensive ones it looked shoddy, but when she compared it with cheaper ones it looked quite respectable. Van's parents had dined with them that evening. When Sandra had seen the box Gracie brought, her spirits had panicked. Surely Gracie had not brought a sweater. She just couldn't — but she had, the very one Sandra had wanted to buy. Sandra had slipped her box back into the closet and kissed Van and told him that was her present to him. Over and over all the little disturbing details of her association with Gracie marched through Sandra's mind, but the words she had said to Gracie overshadowed everything. On a sudden impulse Sandra went to the telephone. Her mother would understand and say words that would take the bitter taste from her tongue. "Sandy, has something —happened?" It was wonderful to hear that voice. It was easy to pour out her story. When she had finished, there was silence at the other end of the line. Sandra hastened to her own defense. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1960 "Can't you see, Mama? I had to say something. She wants to do everything for us. I couldn't stand it any longer." "Is that why you called me? To assure me you had to say what you said?" "Yes, but — but, Mama, don't 9? You see. "I see that you did something very rude and now you want my approval." "But — Mama." "You have a problem, that I will admit," Mrs. Shelton went on, "but you will never solve it by such actions. I think you should go and look out of your big window for awhile." GANDRA did go stand by the window. She looked at the buildings. She could see only parts of the close ones, but those farther away could be seen in their entirety. It was some time before she knew why her mother had asked her to do this. "How are my two best ladies?" Van had much of his mother's happy disposition. He swung Cindy into his arms and hugged Sandra at the same time. Instead of returning his kiss, Sandra buried her face in his shoulder and burst into sobs. "Hey, what goes? Sit down, nuisance, while I investigate." Cindy did not want to be put down. She added her protests to her mother's sobs. Van tried to turn Sandra's face, but she refused to look up. "Let's have a stop to this — right now." He used both hands to lift her face and his tone stopped both sobs and protests. "What is wrong, NO COMMENTS, PLEASE sweetheart? Pened." As Sandra told her story, Van pressed her close against his shoulder. "Please," he said at length, "give me credit for having a little perception. I know how mother takes over. I even know about the sweater, but," his voice hardened, "we have a long time to live together and we won't have feelings. It was pretty dumb, don't you think, to go so far out over something six or eight years in the future?" "But she is having an apartment held for us." "So what? We don't have to move, but you didn't have to be rude to her. Don't you think you owe her an apology? After all, she is my mother — and a wonderful one." Sandra nodded without speaking. "Then go wash your eyes and put on your face while I put Cindy into her togs." "But — but dinner is ready." Sandra was a little awed by the note of authority in her husband's voice. It was the first time she had heard it, and for some reason it lifted her = spirits. "Couldn't we?" "We are going now." Sandra did not entirely erase the effects of her unhappy afternoon, but she helped her looks. Van had Cindy in one arm and started for the stairs when his parents walked in. Sandra stared at her father-inlaw. The kind, gentle look was gone from his face, and she knew instantly where Van got that tight muscle around his mouth. "Mama has come to apologize," Tell me what hap- 439 Mr. Baker said without preamble. "We were just leaving for your place," Van answered, "Sandra wants to apologize." "Mama will apologize." Sandra looked from father to son and back again. She could not believe what she was seeing. She looked at Gracie and saw the same thing she felt. She started to giggle, then the two women threw their arms around each other and laughed hysterically. The men looked bewildered and lost. When Mr. Baker muttered, "Ridiculous way to apologize," Van started to laugh. They had finished the delightful dinner Sandra had prepared when Mr. Baker reverted to the subject of the dispute. 'There was no tension in his voice and none in the room. "It was my fault, really. I knew Mama was going overboard, but it was so casy to agree with her. Give and take in moderation is the word from now on." Sandra turned to see how Gracie was taking the pronouncement. Gracie's face was glowing, she was really beautiful. "I bought some lovely rose corduroy with the money I saved from the sweater, Mother Baker. Will you help me make rompers for Cindy?" "I'd love to. All my life I have wanted a little girl to sew for." "Dad said it was a ridiculous way to apologize," Van said, later that night, "I think it was more ridiculous to dispute over music lessons for a child eight months old. The way you women." Sandra put her lips on his. "No comments, please." Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, July 1, and July 15, 1900 "Tor Tur RiguTs OF THE WoMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or ALL NaATIONs"' REMEMBERING THE PIONEER TRAIL: We had prayers in the morning, in fact I am sure it was faith in God we depended on to bring us safely along. Looking backward I can recall a few bright mornings when something unusual broke the monotony, or the scenery was more picturesque, or we had seen a beautiful deer, perhaps two or three or half a dozen such beauties, so graceful in their movements. There was order in the camp, men stood guard at might and we slept soundly in the open air. How marvelously we were guided to this land. —Aunt Em THE DAWNING OF A BRIGHTER DAY: Looking at conditions now it seems uscless to allude to such a time; and yet it is nevertheless the prophecy of the future by the greatest men and women — poets, sages, seers and philosophers and why should we not believe in the best for the human race? 'Tennyson foresaw it; Isaiah foreshadowed such a time, and when even the beasts of the field, the lamb and the lion should lie down together. And, therefore, women need not despair though all seems dark today as far as peace among the nations Is concerned; yet the silent forces that are working and the heartfelt prayers of the tens of thousands of mothers that are offered daily will reach the ears of the Omnipotent, and truth and righteousness will eventually triumph, the earth will be redeemed and Satan will be bound. —Fditorial MORNING IN CAMP Lo a mighty host of Jacob, Tented on the Western shore, Of the noble Mississippi, Which they had been passing o'er, At the last day dawn of winter, Bound with frost and wrapped in snow. Hark, the cry is Onward! Onward! Camp of Israel rise and go. —Eliza R. Snow AUNT ZINA'S PARTY: On Tuesday afternoon, July 26, a number of the sisters met at the residence of Sister Zina D. H. Young, to show their love and appreciation of this Mother in Israel.... Sister E. B. Wells made a few remarks and referred with love and appreciation of the many sisters who had been wont to meet with us on similar occasions who were now on the other side of the veil... Vilate Kimball, Mary Ann Young, Emma Smith, Eliza R. Snow, Elizabeth Ann Whitney, and later whom all present would remember, Phebe Woodruff, Sarah M. Kimball, Elizabeth Howard and many more... We should not allow their names to be forgotten, for they had helped lay the foundation for others. —New Note BEAR LAKE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: I President Julia P. Lindsay... Said she had much pleasure in meeting in conference, had never yet performed a duty without receiving blessings. Spoke... On the great blessings we enjoy in this goodly land, and the promises made the sisters by the Prophet Joseph, if they would be faithful. —Nancy H. Allred, Stake Sec. Page 440 RINCESS MARGARET ROSE, sister of Queen Elizabeth II of Great Britain, became the bride of Anthony Armstrong-Jones, May sixth in Westminster Abbey. 'This is the first time in more than four hundred years that a member of British royalty has married a commoner. At Princess Margaret's personal request the Beatitudes were read (very solemnly and impressively) just preceding the ceremony, and the word "obey" in the bride's promises to the groom during the nuptial ceremony was retained. MBs. EMERALD LUCY BARMAN ARBOGAST, of Los Angeles, California, was named 1960 American Mother of the Year. She gave remarkable help to her youngest of six children, who was retarded. She also established two schools for retarded children, to help others. She believes children should have freedom, but under strict supervision. MB:. ERNEST (GRACE WATKINS) SONDERREGER, 66, of Midway, Wasatch County, was chosen Utah Mother of the Year. Eight of her ten children are still living, fine citizens and successful persons. Left a widow at the age of thirty-nine, she and her children worked together to pay off the mortgage on their farm.