		ADDRESS OF PRESIDENT WOODRUFF.

	President Woodruff was then presented to the audience by Mayor Clark and was
received with the warmest demonstration
of applause. The venerable Pioneer and
leader said in substance:
	It was fifty-one years ago yesterday a
little before 11 o’clock a. m., that he drove
President Young in his carriage on to the
spot near where the Knutsford hotel stands.
On his arrival in the valley, the speaker
had, he said, one bushel and a half of pota-
toes in his possession. He had covenanted
with the Lord that he would neither eat
nor drink until they were planted, and he
kept his promise. Others of the Pioneers
also had potatoes with them. They, too,
promptly attended to the work of planting.
And they were planted in the earth, not in
the moon, (dark or light) as Brother Orson Pratt objected to that. (Laughter.)
	There was a man in Nauvoo who built a
carriage to suit his own fancy. It had a
bed eleven feet long and was entered by
means of steps and door. This vehicle the
speaker bought and brought to this valley.
On the Monday morning immediately after
the arrival of the first Pioneers President
Young took some of the Twelve Apostles
and with them walked on a short distance
in a northwesterly direction; a halt was sud-
denly made and President Young striking
his cane upon the ground, exclaimed,
"Brethren, here will be the Temple of our
God.” "I didn’t ask him,” continued
President Woodruff, “who told him the
Temple would be there. I didn’t care. I
put a stake there and the Temple is there,
a monument to President Young’s foresight
and prophetic accuracy.”
	After passing over the ground which is
now Pioneer square the party entered
wagons and started for the point of the
mountain, which appeared to be about five
miles to the westward. The distance, how- 
ever, was much greater, being about fifteen
miles. They continued on to Black Rock 
where President Young plunged in the brine
and took a bath, being the first Mormon to
lave in its waters. He was followed by
other members of the party among whom
was a colored man. When the latter em-

