[Column 1]
formed. Dr. Roberts deserves the greatest
commendation for the benevolent work she
has so generously undertaken.
	Women are proving themselves heroic
and self-sacrificing as well as patriotic the
country over in our day as well as in former
times. The taking up of military nurses
duties by young women of wealth, culture
and refinement is proof of the fact. Miss
Margaret Long, daughter of Secretary
Long, and others from John Hopkins medi-
cal school of Baltimore, Miss Mabel Austin,
daughter of Ex-Governor Austin of Min-
nesota, Miss Dorothy Reid and Miss Mabel
Sims have two weeks ago reported to the
naval hospital at Brooklyn to nurse wound-
ed soldiers who were sent up from Samp-
son’s fleet on the Silence. Many others
whose names are not as widely known are
said do be engaged in the work.
	Since the last issue of the "Exponent"
two eminent men who have figured conspic-
uously in the world’s history have departed
this life. On the 19th of May, at his home
in Hawarden, the Right Honorable Wm.
E. Gladstone died. He is known every-
where as the “Grand old man.” A man of
the century, sound in judgment, eminent in
literature, almost unsurpassed as a states-
man, with the heroic courage of conviction
that few men have possessed. Edward
Bellamy died in Springfield, Mass. later in
the month. His literary works have attract-
ed great attention during the last few years,
especially among the masses of the people,
as the subjects treated upon touched the
hearts of struggling humanity as no others
have done perhaps in later times. He was
literally a man of the people.
	Eastern papers tell us that Clara Barton
has returned North, and after staying a few
days in Washington consulting with offici-
als of the State Department, she went to
New York to confer with members of the
Red Cross Relief Committee regarding the
Red Cross work in the field during military
and naval expeditions. The principal work
in hand is the fitting out of two hospital re-
lief ships. The proposition is to use the
funds of the National Red Cross Relief Com-
mittee, of which Bishop Potter is chairman,
to fit up two ships, one for the Atlantic
and the other for the Pacific, with the
Philippines as the objective point. They
will operate under the Naval articles of the
Geneva treaty, Each ship will have a hos-
pital and surgical staff and will be well sup-
plied with everything needful to care for
and relieve suffering and distress.
	The temporary organization of the Red
Cross Society has done excellent service
during the few weeks since the ladies met
and commenced in a practical way to work
for the benefit of the Utah Volunteers; hun-
dreds of fever bandages have been made, al-
so comforts for hundreds containing the
most essential articles for use in mending or
for daily use (when no women are about) to
serve in sewing on buttons, etc. Serving
lunches, to the companies on their departure
has been one of the most notable features of
the work and one that appealed direct to the
inner man; something invigorating at the
last moment before starting upon that weari-
some journey will be remembered by the
patriotic mountain boys who have gone
from the midst of plenty to serve their
country and for freedom’s sake. And each
mother and every true woman prays God to
bless our dear boys and bring them safe

