ELEN DAVIES HUGHES.
	Elen Davies Hughes, wife of F. D. Hughes,
was born in South Wales December 10, 1841, and
died in Salt Lake City May 22, 1898 She em-
braced the Gospel i[-] her youth, belonged to the
Swansea branch and was noted for her integrity
and her faithful attendance to her meetings, was
strict in paying her tithing and always contributed
of her scanty means to every call made upon the
branch of which she was a member. She emi-
grated to Utah over thirty y[-]ars ago and has re-
sided in the 11th ward ever since. Her record
in that ward as a faithful Saint, wife and mother
were e[-]aborated upon by the brethren in their
inspired remarks at the funeral obsequies. In
short, she accepted every principle the Lord re-
vealed, inspired her children with faith in God
and passed away full of faith. It is a great con-
solation to her children (five of whom a[-]e living)
to look back upon her past life, and I trust they
will follow in her footsteps. She way va[-]iant in
testimony, patient and humble in a[-]l [-]rials and
tribulations. She has fought the good fight, she
has kept the faith and wi[-]l come forth in the
morning of the resurrection clothed with glory
and eternal life.
						H. D. HUGHES.
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	Whereas, Our Heavenly Father has s[-]en fit in
His wisdom to allow our worthy and esteemed
sister, Agnes A. McDonald, president of the Re-
lief Society of Colonia Garcia Mexico, to be
ruthlessly murdered by the hands of foul assassins
for reason unknown to us, be it
	Resolved, That we the members of the Garcia
Relief Society extend our sympathy to the be-
reaved husband and children in this their sad
hour of trial. 
	Resolved, That the willing and faithful aid that
she exercised in our Relief Society by service,
contribution and counsel will be held in grateful
remembrance.
	Resolved, That her removal will leave a shadow


that will be deeply realized by the members of
this organization. 
	Resolved that we strive to carry out her wise 
counsel, follow her noble example and cherish in 
our hearts that love for her which she so truly 
won. 
	Resolved that we express our hope that even 
so great a loss to us all may be over-ruled for 
good y Him who doeth a[-]l things well. 
	Resolved that one copy of t e e resolutions be 
sent to the bereaved husband, one be placed on 
the Society record and one be sent to the “Ex-
ponent” for publication.
BARBARA WHETTEN,
WEALTHY SHEFFER,
Committee. 

