[Column 2]
tending their meetings and in all other
duties, hoped the Lord would bless and
strengthen our presiding officers that they
might live many years and labor among us.
	President Lindsay stated that in conse-
quence of the president’s death the Relief
Society at Wardboro was disorganized but
their meetings were continued. Showed
the necessity of the sisters having good,
substantial granaries that our grain may be
saved for a time of need, we are instructed
to save flour, it has been proven that it can
be kept in good condition for many years,
gave much valuable instruction and asked
the blessing of the Lord upon all.
	President James H. Hart felt thankful to
live in a day when woman occupied the
high and lofty position God designed for
her. We must all labor together for the
accomplishment of His purposes, there is
no exaltation except there is union, the sis-
ters who are appointed to preside over the
different organizations are called of God and
should be respected in those positions. We
are dependent upon our Heavenly Father
for all the wisdom we receive, and all
things we receive here and expect to re-
ceive hereafter, through the holy priesthood
we receive nearly every blessing; it should
be honored and respected.
	Hymn “Sweet is the work my God my
King.” Meeting adjourned until 2 o’clock.
Benediction by Bishop E. C. Kutch.
	Mee[-]ing was called to order at 2 p. m. by
President Julia Lindsay. Singing “Now
we'll sing with one accord.” Prayer by
Elder Quinton. Singing “An angel from
on high.” Sacrament was then adminis-
tered, during which the choir sang “O God
the Eternal Father.” The statistical and
financial report for the year ending Dec.
31, 1897 was read by the secretary.
	Counselor L. M. Hart said it required a
great deal of energy to address a congre-
gation like this, felt grateful for a knowl-
edge of the divinity of this work, we have
everything to stimulate us to faithfulness.
Said it was great folly for us to neglect
those things pertaining to our future exal-
tation for the perishing things of the earth,
had never attended our sacrament meetings
and partaken of the sacred influence with-
out receiving strength. An important
part of our mission is to help those who are
in need whoever they may be, woman’s
sphere is being extended, she is making
rapid advancement in many branches of edu-
cation. Said that every branch should be
reported and a president who does not make
an effort to have her branch of the Society
represented twice a year at these conferences
is not worthy of that position.
	Sister Cook reported the Thomas Fork
Relief Society.
	Sister Mary Bagley, one of the aids to
the Stake presidency, was the next speaker.
She said she esteemed it a great privilege to
live in this day when the Gcspel has been
restored with all its gifts and blessings,
though we may have many trials to endure
we are comforted by the Spirit of God.
Spoke at some length upon the benefits de-
rived from attending our meetings and
associating with our sisters.
	President Lindsay spoke very impressive-
ly upon subjects of importance to the sisters
and invoked the blessing of God upon all.
	The minutes were read and approved, the
choir sang “The Lord Reigneth” and con-
ference was adjourned for six months.
Closing prayer by President J. H. Hart.
