[Column 2]
erged from the waves the salt brine dried
upon his skin and instead of being a black
man he was perfectly white. (Laughter.)
This transformation, Porter Rockwell de-
clared to be the first miracle performed in
the valley. (Renewed merriment.) But
when he washed himself in fresh water the
salt disappeared and once more the white
man was black. (Laughter and applause.)
	On reaching here the Pioneers were im-
portuned to continue their journey to Cali-
fornia, where it was believed their condi-
tion would be bettered. President Young
said he knew he was in the midst of a des-
ert with his people, but that would make
no difference. They would build a temple,
a city and a commonwealth here. When
the first message flashed across the new
electric means of communication the words
were, “What has God wrought?” and so
regarding the declaration of President
Young the speaker felt constrained to say,
‘‘What has God wrought?” in these
mountain vales that are now cities and
towns bedecked with temples of worship,
school houses, colleges and the various
conditions of an advanced civilization.
	Here President Woodruff paused briefly
and then said: "Wondrous changes have
come to this land and people since the arri-
val of the Pioneers, and I want to say that
the changes, progress and increase will be
just as great during the next fifty-one years
as during a similar period that has just
closed. The destiny of this people is be-
fore heaven and earth and nothing can stay
it."
	President Woodruff said he would speak
of one incident and only one connected
with the journey of the Pioneers hither. It
was suggested to him by the presence on
the stand of W. C. A. Smoot who was the
youngest teamster in the advance guard. It
occurred near the Platte river. One day
the little band of home and liberty seekers
were startled by seeing to the west directly
ahead of them, what appeared to be a great
black cloud close to the earth. To their
amazement they discovered on approaching
nearer that it was not a cloud, but a solid,
mighty, moving body of buffalo, probably
the greatest herd that had ever assembled
in the western world. There was great
danger of being crushed to death by the
mighty horde. What to do was a problem.
But after consultation a wedgelike column
was thrown out and an opening effected in
the herd. Among this animated mass of
the monarchs of the mountains and plains
they struggled on for their own personal
salvation for three days and nights. At one
time Brother Smoot lost a horse which
got mixed up with the buffalo which were
traveling not in a scattered condition but
just as close as animals could crowd togeth-
er. For a time it seemed as though the
loss would be permanent, but after a while
the horse was recovered.
	"It always was,” said President Wood-
ruff, in his closing reference to the incident,
“a mystery to me why that great body of
buffalo should have gathered together and
marched from its roaming place on the
slopes of the Rocky Mountains and moved
down on to the Platte. It never occurred
before; it never occurred since, and will
never occur again.”
	As a finale to his address President
Woodruff said he felt that it was his duty
to give President Brigham Young the
credit of having laid the foundation of this
city and state. The streets of Salt Lake

[Column 3]
City, for instance, were the widest and 
most beautiful of any city on the earth. In
the historic city of Jerusalem two loaded
camels found it difficult to pass each other.
In this city thirty of these caravans of the
desert could do so. President Young be-
lieved in fulfilling the commandments of
God. He believed in doing things well.
That was a characteristic of the Pioneers,
no matter what it cost. For instance, a
mountain was moved at a cost of a half
a million dollars for a foundation for the
Manti Temple.

	Congressman Wm. H. King spoke, after a
quartette "When the swallows homeward
fly.” The speaker believed somewhat in
hero-worship and added "All Hail to such
men as Brigham Young, Wilford Woodruff,
Orson Pratt, Erastus Snow and George Q.
Cannon for what they have wrought;” and
he closed his eloquent tribute to the Pion-
eers with the expression: "Today all hon-
or and adoration should be given to Wilford
Woodruff, the Pioneer of pioneers.” Judge
C. C. Goodwin spoke last and was, as usual,
very humorous.
	President George Q. Cannon offered the
dedicatory prayer which was in that happy
spirit which goes to the hearts of the audi-
ence. This was followed by three cheers
for the Pioneers and also three cheers for
the Mayor and City Council who had been
instrumental in having this spot of conse-
crated ground set apart for the benefit of
the people.


