[Column 2]
ful that I live in this age of the world when
the Prophet Joseph has revealed such
glorious principles for our salvation and
hope to prove faithful in all things and
to do some good in the Relief Society. Our
president is aged but she labors faithfully
and diligently to benefit and bless all.”
	President Elizabeth Yates of Millard
Stake said, “We don’t have this opportuni-
ty often, only when we come to conferences.
Our sisters are good, they do whatever they
are called upon to do, if there is any plan
to draw the sisters out I would like to
know and try it. I would like to know if
anyone has anything to help the sisters in
attending who are dilatory. Sending wo-
men missionaries to the heathen has been
done in the world and no doubt has done
good, and I am glad to see our sisters called
to go. I know, one very exemplary girl
who will go now in about a week.” Sister 
Yates had been blest in her labors and her
health had been better since she had been
among the sisters. “Last summer we had
to change our wheat that had been stored
twenty years." Shipped a car load but
would make it up in better wheat, felt
there was much to learn and was thankful
for these opportunities.
	President Mary John of Utah Stake, was
grateful for the privilege of meeting with
the sisters. “We are always willing in our
Stake to do all we are called upon to do.
We have made carpets cushions and furn-
ishings for the Tabernacle and public
buildings. Jennie Brimhall and Inez
Knight, two young sisters from Provo,
have been called as missionaries, other
young people will yet be called, for the
work is increasing.” Sister John said she
was present when these sisters were set
apart. "How great the work is in which
we are engaged. The sisters are rather
slow in our Stake in coming to meeting but
are liberal in donating.” Spoke a few
words on the silk industry. “We are try-
ing to infuse this industry into the Relief
Society, if the sisters who have a good
place for the work are trying to commence
I would really like to know something that
yould be an inducement to them and
would promote an interest in this valuable
industry.
	Sister Zina D. H. Young talked of silk
and thought it was a mission and would be
wealth to the community if they would but
persevere in it.
	Sister Sarah Eckersley of Wayne Stake,
felt that they had a good president and the
Society in Wayne Stake was in good order
and they enjoyed their meetings and had
union and a good spirit, felt glad to have
this opportunity of being with the sisters in
conference.
	.President Thomas Ricks read a report
and spoke of what they had done in Ban-
nock Stake for charity. “Sister Temper-
ance Hinckley is president, it is a young
Stake notwithstanding the president’s head
is white, if they could enroll the young
sisters it would be good for them, the
younger women should come forward and
help. The Lord is working with our peo-
ple and will continue to until we are more
obedient to counsel, and may we all abide
in the faith and be ready to do His work is
my prayer. Amen.”
	President Jane S. Richards of Weber Stake
spoke on the wheat question and of the
counsel given by President Brigham Young,
and she felt if the Lord would give her 
strength she would carry out that counsel,
knew there were some who became dis

[Column 3]
couraged but felt we must depend upon our
Heavenly Father for encouragement when
we had done all we could and He would
help the humble. We had not taken this
mission of saving grain upon ourselves,
but we were told to do it, and it would all
be right if we would do our part. Felt it
was sometimes difficult, we have families
and many cares; said when she was called
to be president she felt that her household
cares were all she could see to, but the
Lord had blest her and she had gone on
and had not neglected her home affairs, but
had accomplished more in her weak way
than she had ever expected. Thought
there was nothing like being industrious,
we should show our willingness to do little
things as well as great ones, we could not
all do the same line of work, neither could
all our children, but we could be diligent
in what we undertook to do, and do that
well. Sister Richards alluded to the indi-
cations of the approach of famine and felt
we had not been as zealous in obeying
counsel as we should have been. She was
proud to think there were some young girls
who were willing to enter the Relief Soci-
ety and help the older sisters, spoke of her
two granddaughters who were members and
who could bear a good testimony, men-
tioned the fact that the sisters who were
aged now were young when they began.
	Sister Esther Grange of Emery Stake,
spoke in words of praise of the sisters in
their County and of the energy of that
officers, how anxious they were to carry out
all the instructions they received, and of.
their desire to take hold of the silk industry
this summer and try to accomplish some-
thing creditable, believed they could.
	Sister Emilia D. Madsen, corresponding
secretary of Box Elder Stake, spoke in
terms of praise and of appreciation of their
president, Sister Olivia Widerborg, how
faithful she had always been in performing
every duty, and how carefully she had kept
the wheat, she was like a sentinel in guard-
ing it and never allowed any infringment.
The sisters had great joy in coming togeth-
er in the Stake and with Sister Widerborg
in carrying out her wishes, she expressed
her interest in the silk question and alluded
to the mulberry orchard and felt more
might be done by a united effort in that
direction.
	President Susan Grant of Davis Stake,
thought they were doing the best they
could, they were increasing in number, she
took great pleasure in visiting around the
Stake and meeting with the sisters in their
own wards and becoming better acquainted,
felt we could bless and comfort each other
in many directions and build each other up
and always felt to bless the sisters who had
great responsibilities, loved all and desired
to prove faithful.
	President Young spoke impressively of
the young ladies coming forward to assist
in the Relief Society, wished we could
show them the beauty of the work and the
blessing that would come to them.
	Sister Emily S. Richards added a few
words about the young women, spoke of
her own experience in working in the Soci-
ety when quite young and how much she
had enjoyed it, and also spoke of the Soci-
ety having a house, thought it could be
done if we would take hold in earnest.
	Conference adjourned until Saturday,
April 9, at 10 a. m. Singing “Lord dis-
miss us with Thy blessing.’’ Benediction
by Mrs. E. B. Wells. 
