[Column 1]
literary purposes. There can be no ques-
tion of the significance of such an auspicious
movement along the broad lines of higher
and more liberal thought and loftier pur-
poses, as well as the power of awaking the
consciousness of developing in all directions
latent gifts and capabilities in the human
soul, contact with each other is a force in
itself, and the club motto “Unity in Diver-
sity” was greatly accentuated in this re-
markable convention or congress. Hun-
dreds of bright an[-] [---] intellectual wo-
men meeting to compare notes, methods of
work and of discipline must very effectually
emphasize the movement aud bring women
to a better understanding of each other, and
the lines of work along which all may ar-
rive at a more complete aud harmonious
uplifting of human life. It must surely be
a motive power in moving the world in
many ways and teaching the purer soul-les-
sons of love.
	We are glad the proceedings are to be
published in book form, for in no other way
could an adequate idea be obtained of the
entire work accomplished. Much good seed
has been sown that will eventually spring
up, blossom and bear rich fruit, and the
bread cast upon the waters will return in
good time. The women of America may
look confidently forth into the next decade
for greater and better results than hereto-
fore achieved. Darkness is fleeing away
and. the light of truth, is bursting forth to
illumine the world.
	It is utterly impossible to “tell it all,” or
even to mention the names of the grand
women who were present at the Biennial,
names that carry with them so much mean-
ing to those who know the individual wo-
men, and therefore we can only say a word
or two of them and the great welcome ex-
tended to the Federation entire by the Den-
ver people; we give in another part of this
paper the address of welcome of the elo-
quent Governor of Colorado which speaks
in plain terms of their hospitality and mag-
nificent generosity, and as the Governor of
the state so was the Mayor of Denver, and
in like manner the people of the city and
the region roundabout.
	The banners, flags, flowers, plants and
vines with which Broadway theatre was
decorated were all suggestive of the senti-
ments patriotic and large-hearted that was
apparent on all sides. Among the organ-
zations that kept open house with all due
ceremony and courtesy and appropriate
paraphernalia was the Equal Suffrage Asso-
ciation, Press Association, Daughters of the
Revolution, Daughters of the American
Revolution and Colonial Dames, and served
tea, lemonade, wafers, candies etc. The
elegant homes of several citizens were
opened for receptions where beautiful wo-
men received and refreshments were served
by other women equally as pretty and
graceful—then there was a Garden party
given by the Press in charming private
grounds with fine music and tables under
the trees among the flowers, a most enjoy-
able place to meet friends, acquaintances
or strangers, people from north, south, east
and west, really it was all to much to be-
lieve and one can only say “the half can
never be told.” even though one tries to
remember. There were Trolley rides, ex-
cursions to gardens and parks, the long
days. ride around the Loop—all this and
much more and three meetings a day, why
it fatigues one to think of it only as we re-
member how delightful it all was.
	We shall never be able to tell what 

