THINGS OF INTEREST.

	The daily events now transpiring are full
of interest, so much so that one watches the
bulletins hourly as the dispatches come in,
and an ever restless feeling pervades the
atmosphere about and around, and men ask
each other what the next move will be in
the semi-tragic drama of occurrences.
	Although Utah is remote from seaports or
river navigation, yet the same general feel-
ing prevails in regard to naval expeditions
or warfare, and now that the Utah volun-
teers are really launched upon the Pacific,
the growing sympathy of sentiment will be-
come more strongly intensified. They are
all some mother’s boys and one grows to
understand more fully the tie of kinship
that binds together those of many faiths
and creeds.
	The work of relief that is being done by
women to alleviate suffering caused by the
commotion consequent upon the call to
arms, proves how ready woman is to lend
her best energies to any good cause when
emergencies, or even opportunity occurs.
It is a beautiful thing in the human charac-
ter this desire to succor the needy and bind
up the broken heart and nurse the wounded
in body. Many young women throughout
the land are willing and anxious to serve
those who are wounded or ailing from any
of the ills to which men are liable from ex-
posure and change of climate, and so forth.
	As yet there has not been so much in this
way to be done, it has not yet come and
God grant it may not; but it is gratifying to
know there are brave hearts and true as
well as kind that will not shrink when there
is need for prompt and active service in the
hospital or on the field
	Our own young Utah women are as
brave as the bravest, and have manifested
their interest here at home in doing all in
their power to cheer and encourage the
volunteers as they took their leave of home
and friends, and have ministered in kind at-
tentions to the troops from other places who
were passing through en route for the
coast.

	The Biennial Federation of Clubs to be
held in Denver commencing on the 21st
inst., will be a great opportunity for West-
ern women, and many Utah ladies are ex-
pecting to go and take part in the proceed-
ings. Utah has quite a strong State Fed-
eration and has been ably represented hither-
to in the Biennials held in other cities in
the East, but many more can be present at
its sessions now that it is nearer home.
	The president, Mrs. Martha B. Jennings,


Mrs. J. C. Royle, Mrs. C. E. Allen, Mrs.
John McVicker, Mrs. R. E. Little, the last
two ladies are members of the Board of Re-
gents of the Utah University, and Mrs. W.
W. Riter, Mrs. Arthur Brown, wife of the
Ex-Senator from Utah: Mrs Annie M. Brad-
ley, editor of the Review and Dr. Orielle
Curtis, Mrs. Luella M. Rhodes, Mrs. W.
L. Lawler and several others will leave on
the 20th. It is confidently expected that a
number of Eastern women will pay Salt
Lake a visit when the Federation is over,
and committees have been appointed to see
after their entertainment, a Lake party and
public reception, also a recital in the Taber-
nacle are being talked of and will probably
be tendered the ladies.


