SALT LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Salt Lake Stake Relief
Society conference held in the Assembly
hall June 4, 1898.
	Morning session. On the stand were
Counselors A. T. Hyde and C. C. Cannon.
Counselor B. W. Smith of the General
board, Sisters E. S. Taylor, E. Stevenson,
L. D. Alder and M. W. Wilcox. Meeting
opened by singing “God moves in a mys-
terious way.” Prayer by Sister L. D.
Alder. Singing “What was witnessed in
the heavens.” Counselor Annie T. Hyde
presided. The secretary not being present
Sister Lydia D. Alder was called to act in
that capacity. Roll call showed a large at-
tendance of officers.
	Counselor Hyde welcomed the sisters
and stated that President M. I. Horne had
been thrown from a buggy and was bruised
about the face, but hoped she would be able
to meet with us yet; also spoke of the nurs-
ing class and requested President E.S. Tay-
lor of the General board of the Y. L. M. I. A.
to address the conference and state her
feelings in regard to the class.
	Sister Taylor said she thought the move-
ment a grand one “To think that one
hundred and fifty of our sisters can obtain
a good training to enable them to nurse the
sick and also to nurse their own families
skillfully! I am proud that some of our
young ladies have volunteered to take this
course of study. A nurse should love to do
good, love those around her and be cheerful
in the presence of the sick. Many of you
may never be called upon to nurse the poor,
but should you, your heart should be so
generous that you will be willing to bless
others, then you will have the greater re-
muneration. The Lord loves the poor and
desires to take care of them. Think well
about this matter, it may be the opportuni-
ty of your lives.”
	Counselor B. W. Smith heartily endorsed
the movement spoken of by Sister Taylor
and urged the sisters to study for the beau-
tiful calling, to bless the sick and afflicted.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson also spoke in ref-
erence to the nursing class, earnestly ad-
vocating the organization of the same.
	Singing “We thank Thee O, God for a
prophet.” Counselor A. T. Hyde spoke of
the class, thought it would indeed be a
blessing to all who participated in it, and

