[Column 2]
cian workmanship are found in the earliest
tombs of the Greeks and Etruscans. The
Phoenician navigators were enterprising.
They built the Hellespont bridge for Xerxes,
they furnished ships for the King of Baby-
lon for naval operations, and they circum-
navigated Africa, an undertaking remark-
able considering the age, 604 B. C., 2’000
years before the Portugese navigator,
Magellan.
	The political strifes between 1500 B.C. to
133 B. C., when Spain became a Roman
province are too numerous to mention.
Nearly eight hundred years elapsed when
Alaric held his sword over Rome and threat-
ened its destruction if his demands were
not granted. Alaric was obliged to force
his way into the city, and Rome paid the
penalty of not yielding to him.
	For several years after the Saracen in-
vasion Spain was broken off into a number
of small but independent states. The king-
dom of Asturia, or Leon, had been growing
in power and in 758 A. D. a second king-
dom was founded in Sobrave. Thirty-six
years afterwards was founded the third
Christian kingdom, that of Navarre, and in
933 another independent monarchy was
formed in Castile and soon became the
most powerful of the Spanish states. The
kingdom of Arragon was the last founded.
	In 1035 A. D. there was a division in
Castile and Arragon, and they were not
united until the marriage of Ferdinand
and Isabella. King John II of Arragon
was greatly pleased at this match; he was
deeply sensible of the importance of consoli-
dating the monarchies of Spain under one
head. The marriage articles were signed
on the 7th of January, 1469, but the cere-
mony was not performed until the 19th of
October, 1469. So great was the poverty
of the parties that it was found necessary to
borrow money to defray the expenses of
the marriage.
	There were five children born to Ferdinand
and Isabella. The eldest daughter, Isa-
bella, was married to Alonzo, the heir to
the crown of Portugal, in 1490. Prince
John, heir to the Spanish crown, married
Margaret, daughter of Emperor Maxmillian.
Johanna married Phillip, son of Maxmillian.
Donna Catalina the youngest daughter,
married Arthur, Prince of Wales, (after-
ward to his brother, Henry VIII.) Prince
John married in April and in October of
the same year was stricken down with
fever and died. The prince dying without
an heir the crown of Castile and Arragon
descended to the son of Isabella of Portugal
who was confirmed by the Cortez of Castile.
Thus the three crowns, Castile, Arragon
and Portugal were suspended over one
head. This young heir died when about
two years old. Isabella of Castile died in
1506, and before she died she exacted a
promise confirmed by an oath from Ferdin-
and (of whom she was always jealous) that
he would not marry again. The death of
Isabella was the signal for disorder which
the genius and authority of Ferdinand were
unable to suppress. While the queen’s re-
mains were scarcely cold Ferdinand took
the usual measures for announcing the suc-
cession and renounced the crown of Castile in
favor of Joanna and Phillip, and to their
eldest son, Charles I. of Spain, on the
death of his mother. The reckless extra-
vagance and licentiousness of Phillip so
troubled the queen that she grew morbid
and finally her malady became incurable.
Phillip long since ceased to treat her with
[-]ffection of even decency, and fain would


