WELCOME TO MISSIONARIES.

Levin, New Zealand,
April 11, 1898.
My Dear Mother:
	Here we are in this Nick ’o the woods
with a little time for writing home mail,
and first that goes to mother and Mother B.
the rest I will write to as I can, but to these
two I must say a word you know.
	There is so much to say that I hardly
know where to begin, but first I am well,
we having arrived at Wellington Sunday,
April 3, at 11 o’clock a. m., all fine and
glad to get ashore. Our voyage from Suva
Fiji was not quite so pleasant as from
Honolulu, having met a nasty gale for .two
days, but after that it was pleasant again
and our hearts were made glad on Saturday
when the East Cape of New Zealand came
in sight. That meant that our sea voyage
was nearing an end and that soon we could
be actively engaged in the work for which
we have come forth. It was interesting,
too, to see the glad smile on Hirini’s
countenance as he looked at the land so
familiar, so dear to his memory. Although
he now looks upon Salt Lake City as his
home, his Zion, still there must naturally
be a strong emotional sensation as he looks
upon the land of his fathers and his birth
and the experiences of a long life. Then
of his friends whom he was to meet. No
wonder a smile lit up his dear old
countenance. But I find that the sea trip
and the excitement of meeting have been
quite a tax on him, and we will have to
husband his strength and ask the Lord to
bless him for the labors and travels before
him.
	On our arrival at Wellington I was hand-
ed a letter from Elder Richards stating that
conference had commenced that morning at
Popawai, Wairarapa, and for us to proceed
there as soon as convenient. Being Sunday
no trains were running, only excursion
boats and bicyles, so we had to content our-
selves by waiting till morning. In the
meantime, however, we got our trunks
through the Custom House, but not with-
out some difficulty, as one brother very
providently inclined, had three pairs of new
shoes in his trunk, which had never been
worn and of which I knew nothing. These
were held, of course, also two packages of
underclothing on which we had to pay
some duty.
	Next morning at 7:15 we had all our
baggage transferred and were on our way to
the “hui tau” (annual conference,) where
we arrived at a little before noon. I had
wired President Richards and we were met
at the train with sufficient conveyances to
take us all over. Brother W. C. Castleton
was there with a one-horse buggy for me,
and I very much enjoyed the three mile
drive to the Maori fra with him. And
what a royal reception! About a fourth of
a mile from the fra we found a brass band,
(Maori) waiting for us which formed in
marching order and we were requested to
dismount and fall in which we did, two
and two, there being eight of us. Thus
we were escorted under fine music and the
Queen’s own flag, (God save the Queen.)
A little further we were met by a party

