AT THE BIENNIAL FEDERATION OF CLUBS
IN DENVER.
	“Livingston found in the mountains of
Central Africa a tribe who placed over the
doorway of every hut a sign that meant ‘she
ruleth here.’ Savage instinct and impulse
grasped a principle of equality and justice
that it has taken ages of Christian civiliza-
tion to discover. Over the gateway of
Colorado stands the sentiment ‘she ruleth
here.’ Are men of the West more chival-
rous or more just than their Eastern
brothers?
	“Is it a coincidence, or is there an ele-
ment of truth in the boast of Switzerland,
Montenegro and other mountain lands, that
liberty has a clearer vision in higher alti-
tudes? Certain it is that it is the mountain
states Colorado, Utah, Idaho and Wyoming
only whose statutes recognize that the
Creator made no mistake when he placed
man and woman side by side in Eden.
Westward the course of justice, as well as
empire takes its way.
	“It is fitting that this great confederation
of women’s clubs should meet in Colorado.
While you are not a suffrage association
and may not care to vote, the ultimate of
your intellectual aspirations must be the
elimination of sex from the statutes of
equality. Colorado has added a soprano to
the symphony of political liberty, and we
offer our laws, our homes, schools, institu-
tions as object lessons to those who would
doubt the results of equality before the law.
(Great applause.)
SUFFRAGE NEEDS NO DEFENSE. 
	“Woman suffrage needs not the defense
of results; it is not a question of expedi-
ency but of abstract justice. Yet no evil
has come from the experiment. My testi-
mony may be biased, for had I received no
women votes some one else would have had
the pleasure of greeting you this morning.
But to me there has come no just criticism
to the participation of women in public af-
fairs; no awaking from the fond dream that
the union of the vigor, physical force
and courage of man with the higher moral
and spiritual qualities of woman will weave
for our children a fairer destiny than has
yet come to the race.
	“While here gather your own testimony.
The state superintendent of schools is a wo-
man, and no office in the state house is con-
ducted with more ability. Half the county
superintendents of Colorado are of the same
sex, nearly all of the teachers are women,
yet we challenge comparison with the pub-
lic school system of any state in the Union.
WOMANLY WOMEN.
	“Upon our streets even counting our
Buffalo Bills and Arizona Kids, you will
not see as many long-haired men and short-
haired women as in Boston. Our women
have not diverted their patronage from the
dressmaker to the tailor. Dry goods and
millinery stores still prosper. Politics and
oot ball still have their season. The set-

