EDITORIAL NOTES.

	A call for a mass meeting to organize
a permanent State Society of the National
Red Cross has been issued, and it is fair to
expect that Utah will bring into the field
valiant workers, who will do credit to the
State and be second to none in the union in
active sympathy and practical assistance for
suffering humanity.
	The Relief Society conference which had
been talked of for June has been postponed
until sometime during the first part of the
month of August next, on account of the
general confusion prevailing throughout
the West as well as the East, because of the
call for volunteers for the war with Spain.
Due notice will be given previous to the
conference when the date is decided upon.
	We have had the pleasure recently in
company with Sister Minnie J. Snow of
visiting the sisters of the San Luis Stake
of Zion in Colorado, and attending the con-
ference of the National Woman’s Relief
Society, and also the Y. L. M. I. A. and
several ward branches of the Society, and
were everywhere hospitably entertained
and cordially welcomed. Further particu-
lars of meetings must be deferred until a
more convenient time.
	Prest. Jane S. Richards, first vice-president
to President Zina D. H Young of th Nation-
al Woman’s Relief Society, attended the con-
ference of the Relief Society of Wasatch
Stake on June 3, accompanied by Sister
Emily S. Richards, and officiated in the re-
organization of the Stake board, which was
rendered necessary because of the demise of
the late president, Sister Emma Brown, and
one of her counselors, Sister Sarah H. Cum-
mings. Full particulars of the conference
will be given at a later date.
	We are pleased to be able to inform our
readers that very recently new branches of
the National Woman’s Relief Society have
been organized in Denver and Colorado
Springs, and that Apostle John W. Taylor
expects to organize one in Grand Junction
in the same state very soon. We received
word today of a branch just organized in
San Diego, California. We shall publish
particulars of these new branches very soon.
	The class of trained nurses under Dr.
Margaret C. Roberts are diligently pursuing
their studies. The class numbers about a
hundred women of suitable ages, ranging
from twenty to forty. They meet in the
lecture hall of the L. D. S. college, Temple-
ton building, Monday, Tuesday and Wed-
nesday from ten to twelve a. m., and are
getting on very well indeed, so we are in-


