		NEW ORGANIZATION.
	Minutes of a meeting held in the Twenty-
fourth ward meeting house for the purpose
of completing the Relief Society organiza-
tion of the ward, May 12, 1898, Present
on the stand were Stake President M. Isa-
bella Horne, Counselors Annie T. Hyde
and Clara C. Cannon, and of the Bishopric,
John Bond and James Christiansen, also
President Sarah M. Kimball, Harriet A.
Badger and Mary E. Gray of the Fifteenth
ward. Meeting was called to order by President
Margaret Nightingale, who had been set
apart at the meeting called for the ward or-
ganization. Opened by singing “We thank
Thee oh God for a Prophet.” Prayer by
Brother John Bond. Singing “Come, come
ye Saints.” President Margaret Nightin-
gale explained the object of the meeting.
	Stake President M. I[-]abella Horne said
for the benefit of those present the instruc-
tions of the Prophet Joseph Smith given at
the organization of the Relief Society at
Nauvoo would be read.
	The enrollment of members then followed.
President Margaret Nightingale chose for
her counselors Catherine Keller and Ellen
Buist, each of whom was sustained in that
office by voteof the members. Ellen Mower
was nominated as secretary and Mary
Howell as treasurer, both being sustained
in that office.
	These officers were then set apart to their
offices in the following order by the
Bishop’s counselors, John Bond and James
Christiansen: Catherine Keller and Ellen
Buist, counselors; Ellen Mower, secretary;
Mary Howells, treasurer.
	After the business was finished instruc-
tions were given by the following speakers:
President Sarah M. Kimball, Stake Coun-
selor, Annie T. Hyde, Stake President M.
Isabella Horne; of the Bishopric, James
Christiansen and John Bond; and President
Margaret Nightingale.
	Meeting was closed by singing “Our God
we raise to Thee.” Benediction by Brother
James Christiansen.
		SARAH A. PRICE, Act. Sec.
		BEAR LAKE STAKE.
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference
held in St. Charles Sunday, May 29, 1898.
Meeting called to order at 11 a. m. by
President Julia Lindsay. After singing,
prayer was offered by President James H.
Hart. Singing “We thank Thee O, God
for a prophet.” Roll called, Stake officers
present five; officers of the various branch-
es five.
	President Lindsay addressed the sisters.
She said the Relief Society presidency had
been able to visit but few of the branches
this season, but intended to do so in the
near future. Felt very grateful to our
Heavenly Father for His mercy that
surrounds us, sometimes she found that she
was not as grateful as she should be.
	The verbal reports were as follows: St.
Charles by President Gallaway; Blcoming-
ton by President Peterson; Montpelier by
President Hoganson; Bennington was re-
ported by President Julia Lindsay who had
recently visited the Society and found it in
a good condition.
	Dingle was reported by President Jane
Sparks who also exhorted the sisters to
teach by example, it is better than precept.
The young people should be faithful in at-

