[Column 2]
of Austria was feeble in body and almost an
imbecile in mind. His first wife was Louise,
niece of Louis XIV., and his second wife
was Mary Anne of Newbery. Charles was
the last of the Austrian dynasty. Glorious
as the condition of Spain was under the
earlier sovereigns it was brought now to the
verge of ruin. For nearly three centuries
it had held the foremost rank in Europe as
a military nation; now it began to decline
both in influence and glory.
	Charles II. was childless and bequeathed
his throne to Phillip V., Duke of Anjou.
Phillip V. was the grandson of Charles II.
half-sister. He was the second son of
Louis the Dauphin of France and Mary
Anne of Bavara. He assumed the title of
King of Spain by virtue of the will of
Charles II. His throne was contested by
the House of Austria in favor of Arch Duke
Charles. Phillip was the first of the Bour-
bon dynasty who occupied the throne of
Spain, and this was the occasion of the wars
of the Spanish succession. Phillip was
married twice, first to Princess Marie Louise
Gabrielle of Savoy, his second wife was
Elisabeth Farnese of Parma. Phillip be-
came a victim to melancholia and abdicated
in favor of his son Louis. Louis died a few
months after of small pox, and Phillip was
obliged to take the reins of government,
In 1731 Phillip invaded Naples and took
possession of that kingdom and gave it to
his son Don Carlos.
	Phillip V. was succeeded by his son
Ferdinand VI., surnamed the “Wise.” He
ascended the throne in 1746. Ferdinand
did not share his ambitious step-mother’s
desire for conquest in Italy, and withdrew
from war, recalling all his armies so quick-
ly from Italy that all the northern part fell
into the hands of the Austrians, who treat-
ed the people with the greatest inhumanity
and even attempted to harness them to
their heavy-artillery. During the thirteen
years of his reign he was one of the most
just and humane of the monarchs who ruled
over Spain. He promoted the welfare of
his country, reorganized the navy, en-
couraged and established manufactures,
and by his judicial and political conduct
placed his brother on the throne of Naples.
Ferdinand married Magdalene Theresa of
Portugal. He died in 1759. 
	Ferdinand left no heir so the throne
descended to his brother, Charles IV. of
Naples, and Charles III. of Spain. Charles
was a very good man, for promoting educa-
tion, reforming and expelling the Jesuits in
1767. Before this time England became
alarmed at the naval preparations of Spain
and declared war in 1762, and took Havana
in Cuba and Manilla in the East Indies.
After several years peace was declared and
Havana was restored.
	Charles III. died in 1788, and was suc-
ceeded by his second son Charles Anthony,
Prince of Asturia (the eldest son was in.
capable of inheriting' the crown.) Charles
IV. was married to Maria Louise Theresa
of Parma. Charles was governed entirely
by Manuel Godey, the lover of his wife and
an instrument of Napoleon’s. The second
revival of the country commenced, trade
aud commerce began to show signs of re-
turning activity. During this reign war
broke out with Great Britain, resulting in
disaster to Spain. In 1804 another war
arose and resulted the same. In 1808
Charles abdicated in favor of his son
Ferdinand VII. but two days afterwards
privately protested.

[Column 3] 	
	Shortly after the prince was elevated to
the throne, he and his father were induced
by Napoleon to take a journey to Bayonne,
but instead of pleasure to find themselves
prisoners in the hands of Napoleon. They
surrendered the crown to Napoleon and he
transferred it to his brother Joseph. The
Supreme Council of Seville declared war
against. France and Napoleon. England
recognized Ferdinand as king and sent an
army to aid the Spanish. After many
bloody battles the French were driven from
the country. In 1813 Ferdinand VII. was
restored to the throne. He married the
notorious Christina who bore him two chil-
dren, Isabella and the Infanta Maria Louise.
Having no sons Ferdinand revoked the
Salic law which excluded females, and es-
tablished a regular succession to the throne
of Spain, females as well as males.
	Ferdinand died in 1833 and bequeathed
his crown to his daughter Isabella. His
brother Don Carlos contested the legitama-
cy of the throne, and this led lo a long and
disastrous war. Isabella II. was only three
years old when she was proclaimed queen.
Don Carlos and his son refused to take the
oath of allegiance and a civil war broke out
which raged for seven years. Don Carlos
reduced to the last extremity fled to France
for refuge and renounced his claim to the
throne of Spain. Isabella’s mother Christina,
and Esparten the “Duke of Victory,” were
appointed regents during her minority. At
the age of thirteen she was proclaimed of
age and at sixteen was married to her cous-
in, Don Francisco de Assis. Married
against her will to a man said to be unfit
for the conjugal state, the private character
of Isabella has been exposed to much cen-
sure and scandal.
	Ever since Isabella ascended the throne
disorder and dissatisfaction seem to be
characteristic of Spain, and in 1845 Don
Carlos made another attempt to gain the
throne of Spain for his son, Charles Louis
“Prince of Asturia.” Isabella with her
royal daughter set out for Barcelona but
was hooted and insulted through the streets.
The cause of this was that she wanted a
bill passed which would place the chief
municipal appointments in the hands of
the crown and deprive the inhabitants of
of the towns of any control over their func-
tionaries. She carried her measure but
there was such an uproar she was obliged
to yield. In 1841 quite a dispute arose
between Christina and Esparten, each one
wanted to be sole regent. Esparten was
elected and continued at the head of the
government until the 14th of July, 1856,
then Gen. O’Donnell was appointed presi-
dent. O’Donnell did not reign long; he
was obliged to resign on the 13th of Octo-
ber, and a new ministry was formed under
Gen. Narvaez. On the 28th of November
the queen gave birth to a son who as heir
to the kingdom took the title of Prince of
Asturia. The insugentsand royalists were
always fighting and in 1868 Isabella was
dethroned and with the king and her four
children took refuge in France. A new
president took the field, Marshall Serrano,
there was much dissatisfaction and all kinds
of parties formed, and an unforeseen diffi-
culty arose, the rebellion of Cuba. It be-
gan at Mauganillo on the 10th of October.
Manuel Cespedes was chief of the Cuban
forces and asked for recognition for the 
new Republic of Cuba, this rebellion re-
mained throughout 1869. Then the Spanish
began to look around for a king.


In 1871 the Cortez elected Prince Amedeo
of Italy to be king. Finding the task a
hopeless one Amedeo abdicated in 1873,
then the form of government was changed
to a Republic. In 1874 Spain was the
scene of general anarchy and much blood
was shed.
	In December 1874, Alphonso, (Isabella’s
son) was declared king. In 1877 Alphonso
married Mercedes, a daughter of the Duke
and Duchess of Montpensier, thus fulfilling
a part of the scheme of Louis Phillip of
France. Mercedes was a beautiful woman,
an angelic disposition, and the first and
only love of Alphonso. The honeymoon
was scarcely over when Mercedes began to
droop and fade and died in 1878. The
Spanish people insisted upon an heir to the 
throne so the following year Alphonso mar-
ried Marie Christina, the daughter of the
Austrian Arch Duke Ferdinand. In 1885
Alphonso died and six months after a son
was born. Little Alphonso was not only
born a king but came into the world in
the presence of his Ministers of State, Cabi-
net officers, members of the regency and
Privy council. A rumor had been circu-
lated that a bogus heir would be placed up-
on the throne, and that was the reason that
every consideration of privacy due to a wo-
man at such a time had to yield to the de-
mands of political situation. Marie Chris-
tina is regent during the minority of Al-
phonso. According to the laws of Spain
the king attains his majority at the age of
fifteen. The little king is twelve now, what
will be left for him to rule over remains to
be seen.
	The queen regent is very much disliked. 
She began by losing the friendship of her
people and then lost their sympathy, now
she is about to lose their respect. She is
said to follow the advice of her mother, the
Arch Duchess Elizabeth of Austria, when
any difficulty arises. She surrounds her-
self with cardinals and bishops who are the 
masters at the Court. She almost remains
in retirement when there are requests for
her presence. The queen was not present
a few weeks ago at the patriotic "Gran
Co[-]rida," the receipts of which were des-
tined for the national subscription. The
Spanish people do not know her, conse-
quently can have no sympathy for her.
	Don Carlos has never been so near the
throne as now, his partisans grow daily
more numerous and powerful. If the queen
cannot keep her people together and the
little king has to abdicate, will it be a
Monarchy or a Republic? War abroad
and revolution at home—such is the condi-
tion of Spain now. A movement against
the queen regent has been started and seri-
ous complications will probably arise before
long. It is said from a reliable source that
a majority of the Spanish people would like
to be rid of the Phillipines and Cuba, and
that they ought to be given to the Ameri-
cans without war; however, that will be
left for those who come later.
	We will glance over the interval since
elapsed, during the first half of which the
nation wasted itself on schemes of mad
ambition, and the latter half has sunk al-
most into a state of oblivion. In glancing
over this period we must confess that the
reign of Ferdinand and Isabella was the
most glorious in the annals of Spain.
