THE MOTHER’S CONGRESS.

Dear Sister Wells:
	Now that the Congress festivities of the
“Mothers of America” are over, both in
national capacity and state as far as our own
dear Utah is concerned—and I have been
privileged to be an active participant in the
one and a silent observer in the other—I
feel impressed to write a few words of in-
formation for those who may be interested
in the move to advance motherhood.
	As far as our Utah Congress of Mothers
is concerned, I was a silent observer and of
course am not informed enough to express
my views; but at the National Congress of
Mothers I had the honor of being an active
participant, and as such can speak facts.
The only conclusion I can come to (according
to my silent observations) is that too few
of our Utah people are acquainted with the
effort that has been made here in regard to
educating women for motherhood. In gen-
eral terms this manner of education has
been in operation here in Utah from the be-
ginning of its existence, through the Relief
Society and later the Young Ladies Asso-
ciation, but later still a special work for
the education of motherhood has been in
operation, and of which I give myself the
credit of being the originator. It is now
between nine and ten years since I started
this special work here in Utah for the sole
purpose of better qualifying women for
motherhood, and one of the consequences
was that I was invited to attend the Nation-
al Congress of Mothers, at Washington, D.
C., this spring as delegate to represent my
work. I went there to represent about fif-
teen hundred women of Utah and bring
their greeting to the Congress. 
	About a year ago blanks were sent to me
from headquarters at Washington, which
would unquestionably give an understand-
ing of the nature of my work.
	In brief, I will say that I went to that
blessed Congress at Washington, and the
privileges I enjoyed, the honor and respect
conferred upon me was something that I
never dreamed would ever be my lot. I
went with comfort and hope in my soul,
having been set apart for the mission and
the blessings promised were literally ful-
filled. The first day of Congress I gave
my report like the other delegates. It was
listened to with great interest which was
proven from the enthusiasm manifested
through applause. It was the only work
of its nature reported and seemed to fill a 
vacant place. I gave my report verbally,
which was very much appreciated, so much

