ficult for the members of these conflicting
creeds to associate much together, hence my
work is no small one in having them treat
each other in the most cordial manner in
my drawing room. I am glad to say that
my personality among them seems to have
the effect of removing all feelings of rancour
that might exist between them religiously,
and we have delightful conversations and
each goes away glad to have met the other
and surprised to find that there is so much
good outside of one’s own immediate circle.
I am, therefore, kept so busy all day and
even in the night hours, that I get very
little time for correspondence. My life here
is just as busy as when I am at work in
England or the United States, only that it
is of a different nature in its detail work. I
must have been born under a perpetual mo-
tion state, I am always on the move and the
day is never too long for me but rather flies
too fast.
	I am glad to hear that you are going to
interest your girls in mission work, the
glorious time is at hand when there will be
no difference between male and female, all
are one in Jesus Christ. “Say ye to the
daughters of Zion: Behold thy salvation
cometh.’ ”
	We get very little news here regarding
the war and I hope ere this reaches you
peace will have been declared. What is
my opinion of war? that it is one of the
greatest curses on earth. I hate the very
idea of it. War brings every evil in its
trail, it arouses the worst passions of man
to shed man’s blood. To me the jubilation
aroused by regiments going to battle, and
the enthusiasm and plaudits of the multi-
tude in cheering their soldiers is still a relic
of barbarism in humanity. There is some-
thing in my nature that revolts at this glee
at the idea of shedding human gore—it is
like the savages dancing with delight at the
sight of the blood of their captives. To
slay the temple of the living God in any
shape, form or manner is to me a crime, and
the thirst for human blood once aroused in
a country is not so easily quenched, especi-
ally among the vicious and depraved.
Everything beautiful in literature and art
gets a set back in times of war; peaceful
pursuits are stifled—the land is filled with
orphans and widows who are left to fight
the battle of life single handed, and they in
their turn become degraded and slaves to
those who pretend to fight for their freedom.
I am more than surprised that so many
American women advocated this war, I
thought they would rise up as one man and
demand peace. What good is our educa-
tion if we cannot settle matters by arbitra-

[Column 3]
tion? Oh, the hideousness of war in these
civilized days! In freeing poor Cuba how
many noble American women and children
will become slaves in the factories and
dwell in the slums of our large cities. But
enough! You may not have the same
views as myself on the subject. To me
war is an abomination. Perhaps it may do
Cuba good, but it is sure to bring to Amer-
ica much that is bad. The war taxes are
diminishing the strength of the people, for
when bread and all eatables become higher
in price the poor have to suffer and eat less
and hence poverty and crime are grafted on
a country. God save America. I think
her intentions were good—but has she alto-
gether gone into this war for unselfish
reasons, simply and solely to free Cuba?
The people yes! but how about the politi-
cians that always sway the people?
	Oh for the true Christ spirit! Oh for the
the peace on earth!
	But all has to b[-] until righteousness shall
come upon the earth. God bless you all. I
am one and part of your country. I love
your stars and stripes, I am a loyal Ameri-
can! but I love to see justice done to every
human being, and I hate war.
Yours truly
L. M. VON F. MOUNTFORD.
Jerusalem.


