LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING
	Minutes of the Ladies Semi-monthly
meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
hall Saturday, May 30, 1898, President
Horne presiding. Singing “O, Jesus the
giver” Prayer by Sister Elizabeth Webb.
Singing “Glorious things are sung of
Zion.” The minutes of the previous
meeting were read and approved.
	President Horne rejoiced at being here
this afternoon, felt every meeting she
missed that it was a chapter which she had
lost, said she had been moving and it was
impossible for her to attend, gave her new
address which she wished the sisters all to
remember, it would be very easy to reach
by taking the Waterloo car which would
take any one to her door. Spoke of the
benefit of these meetings, said even the
brethren had to acknowledge that the re-
marks and testimonies of the sisters were
very beneficial, and after having once visit-
ed them did not want to miss any of them.
The speaker testified that Joseph Smith was
the greatest prophet who had ever been up-
on the earth with the exception of the
Savior, spoke of woman and her important
mission on earth, said the first commission
of the Savior was delivered to a woman,
when he told Mary to go and tell His disci-
ples that He had arisen from the dead.
She bore a strong testimony, thought time
was rolling on very rapidly, urged the sis-
ters to more humility and faithfulness, God
knows all our actions and He will fight our
battles, we need not fear. Said she was at
the meeting when the mantle of Joseph
Smith fell on Brigham Young.
	Sister Mary Silver said she felt she must
come to this meeting for this was her
strength, testified that the Saints would be
all right war or no war if they were faith-
ful, and bore her testimony.
	Sister Barnes made some remarks on the
war but felt it was all right and the Lord
would take care of us, desired to do her
duty at all times and asked the blessing of
the Lord upon us all.
	Sister Brixen felt she must come once
more to these meetings and say goodbye to
the sisters before leaving for Europe, she
expected to leave on the Monday. She is
going after her genealogy and she takes it
as a mission, she has no fear for she knows
the Lord will be with her as was promised
her in a blessing. Sister Brixen testified
that the Lord did hear and answer prayers,
told how for about twenty years she had
prayed that her husband might be con-
verted to the Gospel and how she had al-
most despaired of accomplishing it,but still
she could not give it up. She said now her
prayers had been answered and she was
happy to say that her husband was bap-
tized into the Church last Friday. She
asked the sisters to pray for her and bore a
strong testimony.
	Testimonies and remarks were made by
Sisters Smailey, Wilken and others, they
also testified how they had been healed by
going to the Temple. Singing “The Spirit
of God like a fire is burning.”
	Sister Elizabeth Paul testified to the
goodness of the Lord to her, that His hand
had been over her for good, said she had
been told in a blessing that she should save
her father’s house, felt that in these trouble-
some times all would be well with the
Saints and knew the Lord would preserve
His people.
	Dr. E. S. Barney said we had had a feast
this afternoon, while hearing the sisters

