[Column 2]
so that the president took me warmly by
the hand saying: “Oh I am so glad, that
was from the heart; that is the way I wish
you to speak tomorrow.” I was on the
program for the next day, to treat the sub-
ject, “The Physical Side of Motherhood.”
	I went to the meeting with my soul full
of gratitude that I would be privileged to
present to this important assemblage of wo-
men the principles that are so dear to me,
and which I think so important to the true
adornment of the human race. I went
there fasting and praying, and my Heaven-
ly Father blessed me, I know. I had no
paper, I spoke of my subject as I knew it.
I know it was appreciated by the audience
from the enthusiasm manifested. After the
applause ceased several written notes were
sent up to me (by the ushers) of congratula-
tion and appreciation, asking for interviews
with me at the close of the meeting. One
lady from New York wrote me: “I am go-
ing right home and organize such work. I
would give anything if I could get you
along with me to start us out with your
counsel and advice. Please let me have an
interview with you after this meeting.”
When I came down from the platform and
the meeting was closed it seemed that every
one wanted to shake my hand and be intro-
duced to “the delegate from Utah,” and to
tell me who they were. The next morning
ing when I came and took my seat a beau-
tiful bouquet of flowers was handed over to
me with the words: “This is in apprecia-
tion of what you said yesterday. I am
delegate from Arkansas.”
	I would not have you think that I am
speaking of these things in a boasting spirit,
oh no, far from it! but it is in honor of the
noble women, and with the fulness of my
soul’s gratitude to my Heavenly Father. I
have no honor for myself, it is all His.
	It was so intensely desired that I should
have held a special conference, they called
it, in my line of work, and it was tried
hard every day during the week to get that
brought about by all those who were so en-
thusiastic—the president as much as any
one—but the program was so extensive and
time so very crowded, that it was not pos-
sible to get the time for it, and when I said
goodbye the beloved president said warmly
to me: “I am so sorry we could not get to
hold that conference, but you must be with
us again, we must hear more from you.”
And she added, “I am so glad we have just
received a telegram today from Salt Lake
City stating that they are organizing a
Mothers’ Congress, so you will be right
in it when you get home.” I thanked her
very heartily for her kind feeling and the
way she had treated me, and was silent for
the balance.
	When it was found that it was not pos-
sible to hold that special conference, I obli-
gated myself by promise to many delegates
to send them after I returned all the infor-
mation I could in writing concerning my
work. I have now done so, in as much as
have sent to eleven states in America
long, long letters of explanations, accom-
panied by my little book “What Women
Should Know.” I have done it on the
missionary plan, thankful if I can in this
way be instrumental in the hands of God to
bring some light to those who wish to have
it.
	I say in honor of that blessed woman, the
president of the National Congress, Mrs.
Theodore W. Birney, that she is a model
of grace, humility and symplicity. One is

[Column 3]
drawn towards her with the love of a sister.
God bless her in her noble calling!
	I have a word more to say in honor of
our esteemed Senator at Washington,
Hon. Frank J. Cannon and wife, for their
great kindness and consideration towards
me while at Washington. I shall never for-
get it and my soul is full of blessings for
them and all theirs, that God will reward
them for their manifestations of love and
respect to their humble sister.
			HANNAH SORENSEN.
P. S. I forgot to say that I have had a
most beautiful letter from the president of 
the National Congress of Mothers since I
came home—a letter of sympathy and en-
couragement asking also for information in
my line of work, and it finishes with the
words: “You must be with us again.”

	While on my sojourn in the East I had
also the privilege of visiting Chicago for a
period of five weeks. It was a very plea-
sant experience I had there in many ways,
but what I especially wish to refer to there
is the organization, or branch of our Church
organization there. I did not expect to find
such a flourishing little branch there as I
did, so I received very unexpectedly a very
pleasant impression. Our Elders laboring
there are types of intelligent men full of
ambition and energy, but the most beauti-
ful ornamentation I found in these dear
brethren was the unmistakable stamp of
humility. It was so gratifying to me to
silently notice the interest, love, grace and
respect which these dear brethren mani-
fested toward their little flock when they
met to worship the Lord. I should per-
haps not say little flock, for I think the
average attendance on Sundays was fifty or
sixty, and I think that is very good when
we consider that it is a new mission, so to
speak. They have a beautiful hall where
they hold their meetings which would do
honor to any society be they ever so aristo-
cratic, but the best of it was that they had
the most perfect order and cleanliness mani-
fest on all occasions.	*	*	*
	I attended several of the meetings of the
little branch of the Relief Society while
there, held in private houses among the
sisters who belong to the Society. It num-
bers about fourteen members, I believe,
who as a rule are all present except in case
of sickness. Their president, a very esti-
mable woman, is a Sister Smith who a few
years back was a resident of Nephi here in
Utah, but on account of circumstances re-
sides at present in Chicago. She is well
qualified for the position she occupies, in-
telligent, modest and warm-hearted, and
has the respect of those who preside in the
branch. Their secretary, Sister Ericksen,
is a very efficient secretary, punctual and
orderly, and in short it was a group of sis-
ters in whose company I enjoyed myself
very much. Their methods of meeting
were of the same order that we have here
at home with two exceptions (and these ex-
ceptions were very pleasant features) name-
ly, the members were regular attendants
and of the Elders of the mission two or
three were also regular attendants.
							H. S.


The Adams Express company has an-
nounced that it will carry packages of goods
from relatives to the soldiers in any of the
camps in the South, or to the naval for-
warding points, at 25 per cent below the
usual express rates.


