AN EMINENT VISITOR.
	Miss Sarah E. Hunt of Boston, first vice-
president of the Daughters of the Revolu-
tion general society, and regent of the
Massachusetts State society, visited our city
during the Mothers’ Congress. Miss Hunt
is a leading woman and Mrs. Wells was
fortunate in arranging a meeting between
her and the Wasatch chapter of the D. R.
	The “Exponent” office was beautifully
decorated with roses. Miss Hunt talked in
a simple, charming manner, enthusing her
interested listeners. Miss Hunt said:
“The North and the South in the Revolu-
tion went to war together and fought for
one common cause side by side, and we are
their children. Between the North and the
South, the East and the West there is that
bond that cannot be broken, this is the
grandest part of our work. The D. R. has
a large field. Just now there is a chance to
show what we can do in instilling patriot-
ism. The Massachusetts State society is
very successful, we have a large member-
ship. Our best work is in repairing and
preserving the Paul Revere, Bunker Hill
and others, but we feel that our greatest
strength is in our State society.
	“Do not feel disappointed, Mrs. Wells,
if mothers feel that they are so busy that
they cannot attend to joining, keep a brave
heart and never give up even a poor ground.
We desire Mrs. Wells to be State Regent
of your society. Be Democratic so that all
eligible persons may come in. If there are
any daughters of men who fought in the
Revolution find them and admit them free
of fees into the D. R. The General Soci-
ety will present them with a gold badge.
We want to especially honor them.
	“Our Massachsuttes State society found
an old lady aged 104, who was the daughter
of a soldier of the Revolution and we took
great pride in presenting her with a gold
badge.
	If any of you ladies come to New York
be sure you call at our headquarters.
Thursdays we have tea. ” MissHunt has a
charming presence and won the hearts of
the members of the Wasatch chapter.
	After the goodbyes were said Mrs. Wells
asked “How many of the roses will you
take with you?” and the reply came, “As
many as you will give me, and as many as
my hands can hold.” Then with the
pleasant and good wishes for a delightful
trip through the Yellowstone whither she
is going, Miss Hunt carried away a great
bunch of the lovely roses.
A. M. H.


