THE SABLE MESSENGER.

There was grief in the heart of the mother—
	A sorrow unspeakably deep,
And the loving young sister and brother
	Stole out of the chamber to weep.
Each friend that stood by felt the shadow,
	The cold, creeping shadow of woe,
As in trembling and tears they awaited
	The moment when Leah must go.

Afar to some beautiful country
	Beyond the wide horizon’s rim,
(So far and so lovely none ever
	Returned from its boundaries dim;)
Her father had years ago journeyed,
	Left wife and sweet little ones all—
But here is a messenger from him,
	His dearly loved Leah to cal[-].

“Thy father has sent for thee, Leah,”
	The messenger whispering said,
And stood with his long sable mantle
	Enveloping even his head.
’Twas rumored that never a mortal
	Dared look in the face such as he,
Lest eyesight be blasted or even
	He cease of the living to be,

How black was that long shrouding m[-]ntle!
	How hollow that voice and how low!
And Leah clung close to her mother,
	And shuddered, and dreaded to go.
“O mother, I fear this dark stranger,”
	She panted in tremulous tone,
“I know not the way—is there danger?
	Oh, must I go, mother, alone?”

Close, close to the heart of the mother
	Her tender arms folded her child,
And, torn with unspeakble sorrow,
	She pleaded in agony wild—
“Oh, spare me this trial, I pray thee! 
Oh, break not a mother’s fond heart!
Return by the way which thou camest;
	And alone, oh in mercy! depart.”
 
There were tears in the eyes of the mother,
	And sobbing outside on the stair,
And sympathy saddened each o[-]her,
	Who waited expectantly there.
But sternly unmoved stood the stranger, 
As still as a statue of Fate;
He stirred not a fold of his mantle
	But icily whispered “I wait ”

The moon hid her face in a cloud-vail
	The tremulous stars ceased to shine,
The wind with its eerie low moaning
	Swept mournfully through the dark pine.
All sound faltered low into si[-]ence—
	Fond nature seemed holding her breath—
The thought sped from bosom to bosom,
	“How dreadful how cruel is death!”

