		N. H. ALLRED, Sec.

[Column 3]
		WASATCH STAKE.
	The National Relief Society conference
of Wasatch Stake convened in the Stake
house at Heber on June 2, 1898, at 10:30 a.
m. Meeting opened by singing “Down by
the river’s verdant side.” Prayer was
offered by Brother Joseph Murdock. The
choir sang “God moves in a mysterious
way.” The roll was called showing nine-
teen officers present. On the stand were,
Sister Sarah Alexander of the Stake presi-
dency; President Jane S. Richards of Ogden;
first vice-president of the National Wo-
man’s Relief Society; Sister Emily S. Rich-
ards of Salt Lake City, and presidents of
the various branches of the Society in the
Stake; there were also present President
Abram Hatch and counselors; Bishops Duke
and Hicken of Heber, and Bishop Mur-
dock of Charleston, besides many other-
prominent members of the Church.
	A report was given from each of the fol-
lowing branches in the Stake. Heber East,
Heber West, Midway, Wallsburg, Charles'
ton, Woodland and Center; each of these
was reported as being in good condition.
	Following the reports Sister Sarah Alex-
ander spoke for a short time, then Presi-
dent Jane S. Richards of Ogden addressed
the meeting. She said she was pleased to
see so many present and to hear such good
reports from the various wards and hoped
the same spirit would accompany her re-
marks that the previous speaker had pos-
sessed. She referred to the humility of our
Savior as he went among the poor, and of
the grand work of the redemption of our
dead, encouraged the sisters in their good
works and instructed them in regard to
their duties in this important Society.
	President Abram Hatch spoke for a short
time expressing his appreciation of the good
reports that had been given and encourag-
ing the sisters to continue in the good work.
	Sister Emily S. Richards, of Salt Lake,
followed with a few appropriate remarks,
also instructing the sisters in regard to their
duties in the Society and advising them not
to neglect their family duties, but to divide
their time that each might have the proper,
attention.
	The choir sang “Let those who would be 
Saints indeed.” Benediction was offered
by Bishop N. C. Murdock of Charleston,
after which meeting was adjourned until 2
p. m.
	Afternoon session. Meeting was called
to order at 2 p. m., the choir sang and
prayer was offered by Brother Robert Lind-
say. The choir sang “Come all ye Saints.”
Sister Emily S. Richards said she had
never refused to speak when called upon 
since she was twenty years of age. Re- 
ferred to the unity of the Latter-day Saints 
and to the good influence at these meetings,
spoke of the proper training of children and
advised the sisters to go to the Lord for
guidance in all things, alluded to some of
the benefits derived from the sisters going
on missions and referred to the perfect or-
ganization of the Church.
	President Jane S. Richards was pleased
to see so many present and such interest
being taken in these meetings, advised the
sisters to be careful with their wheat and
save it in case there should come a famine,
gave some instruction in regard to conduct-
ing the Relief Society meetings and prayed
for the blessing of the Lord to rest upon all.
	President Hatch felt to thank the visiting 
sisters for their presence and instructions at
the conference, exhorted the sisters to teach


