[Column 2]
	Bannock Stake was reported by Sister
Susan Watts Burton, Bingham by the
president, Emma J. Bennett, who said that
in traveling through the Stake although
they traveled always by team no accident
had ever happened except last summer
when they had a runaway and six or seven
of them were bruised but that was all, felt
they had been preserved by an over-ruling
power. President Emily G. Cluff gave an
excellent account of the Hawiian sisters,
their industry, energy, and faithfulness.
	Counselor Kate L. Paxman of Juab Stake
spoke of the nice comfortable houses they
had in Nephi, and when they met in their
halls it seemed to her they were as sacred
as a temple, and said what excellent times
they had together among the sisters, and
also what support the presiding brethren in
the Stake gave them and how united they
were. 
	President Lydia Rich of Morgan Stake,
in representing said, “We have good sisters
and we have faith, it has been very effect-
ive in cases of sickness, angels are with us
and we feel their influence. We had diph-
theria in Morgan and we fasted and prayed
and the destroyer’s influence was stayed,
not another case broke out, the blessing of
the Lord has attended us all the day long.
	President Melissa Murdock of Charleston
Relief Society, spoke for Wasatch Stake,
referred to the death of Stake President
Emma Brown and stated that it was ex-
pected that another president would be ap-
pointed soon, thought all was going on
very well with the sisters in the Stake.
	President Jane S. Richards said in Weber
Stake the sisters were trying to do well,
to live peacably and love one another, they
had a good time at a late conference in the
ward where she lived and they bad many
good meetings and blessings, she enjoyed
working for the needy and considered the
labors and duties of the Society were spirit-
ual help, made many encouraging remarks
and felt we were greatly blessed of the
Lord.
	Counselor Annie E. Webster of Parowan
Stake, realized the greatness of the work
and that it was necessary we should be ex-
emplary in our labors and try to impress it
upon the mothers to teach correct princi-
ples in the home, to reckon with themselves
when night comes, go over the
events of the day, referred to her own child-
hood and early training.
	President Zina Young spoke on the silk
industry, told the sisters not to leave a
stone unturned in the silk business, set out
the cuttings of the mulberry trees, this
would help the children of the future; there
was no country in the world better adapted
to silk raising than this, sericulture would
give the women and children something to
do, it is an industry we can excel in and
give a great many employment, if we seek
good gifts they will be given to us, the gift
of wisdom if we pray for it. Sister Rhoda
Hinman’s mother, Mother Chase was set
apart by the Prophet Joseph to administer
to the sick and was one of the first in this
dispensation to attend to this ordinance; our
sisters should carry home from this confer-
ence the good word like a laurel or a sheaf
of grain to bless others with the teachings;
we must love each other and bless each
other also, we have a great mission, let us
have the spirit of kindness. “I was glad to
hear from those who are buildings houses,
we need houses of our own, we ought to
have a three days conference so that all


could speak and then we might be greatly 
benefited."
	President Sarah M. Kimball felt very 
much pleased to be present and to listen to
the teachings and to learn of the three
days' meetings, felt like Sister Zina about
having a house of our own, knew the sis-
ters had means. She had a different exper-
ience from some and her work had been dif-
ferent, but she believed she had a key to 
success in a measure and she would like to
give this key to the sisters in the Society,
it was the law of tithing; referred to a time
when a call was made, and she thought
how could she pay tithing, but the way
was opened and it was very peculiar; felt 
if one made a personal sacrifice the Lord
would bless one, and added that her exper-
ience had been pay your tithes and offerings
and the Lord will bless you. Sister Kimball
spoke of her acquaintance with the Prophet
Joseph in early days and said many excel-
lent things.
	President B. W. Smith urged the young-
er women as well as the older to join the
Relief Society said we should yet become
great and spread out in the land, prayed the
Lord to bless each and every one assembled,
talked of the days of Joseph the Prophet
and the good things he had said concerning
the Society, wanted us all to strive to do
good, to bless the sick, and comfort them,
say our prayers and live right and we
would be satisfied.
	A few closing remarks were made by the
president of love and blessing to all, the
congregation joined in singing "Praise God 
from whom all blessings flow," and confer-
ence was adjourned for six months. Prayer
was offered in the gift of tongues by Presi-
dent M. I. Horne, interpreted by Sister
Zina and Dr. E. S. Barney.
