UTAH WOMEN AND NEWSPAPERS.

	This is the first issue of a new volume,
the "Exponent" having entered upon its
twenty-seventh year. Let us ardently hope
that it may be a more prosperous one than
the last few have been, and that the wo-
men of Utah in whose interest it is pub-
lished and particularly the women of the
Church, may be more zealous in sustaining
their own official organ, and that it may
continue to be a source of encouragement to
the organizations of women throughout this
and other lands.
	In times such as are now upon us, when
history is being made so rapidly and one
momentous event after another follow in
such quick succession, it behooves all wo-
men to be alive to the general good and to
know in what way best to serve each other
and all mankind.
	The newspapers of women throughout
the land are indeed most helpful in each
locality where they are published especially,
and Utah and Salt Lake City should not be
behind in this respect. Utah was the first
western territory or state to establish a wo-
man’s paper except Oregon, and has done
much in the way of political freedom for
women, and her women have not been be-
hind other states in the West intellectually,
notwithstanding the hardships and priva-
tions of pioneer life in a new country.
The women of Utah have acquit-
ted themselves creditably in this respect, and
have shown a courage almost unsurpassed
in the obstacles they have had to surmount.
	In philanthropic work they are second to
none; their largest and most flourishing or-
ganization of this kind, the National Wo-
man’s Relief Society, is known far and wide,
at home in our own country and abroad in
other lands, as one of the most successful
and enterprising organizations of women en-
gaged in philanthropic work for the better-
ment of humanity. We fear the members
do not in many instances appreciate the
greatness of and the benefits to be derived
from this important Society.
	Such great societies need printed instruc-
tions regularly, such as come through an
organ of their own, and should take a pride
in maintaining such a periodical for reliable
information and historical references in re-
gard to matters pertaining to the growth
and advance of the Society as a whole
wherever the locality may be, that all may
be aware of conditions and needs and thus
by interchange of ideas through the paper
as well as in various other ways be mutu-
ally helpful.


Our sisters here and elsewhere are invited
and urged to write for the “Exponent,”
and to cultivate whatever talent they may
have in this line, thus by a few words per-
haps blessing and comforting others,
sowing seed broadcast, casting bread upon
the waters, (perchance the bread of life)
that may feed spiritually those in direst need
of comfort, whose lives may be darkened by
sorrow and adversity.
	The motto of the N. W. R. S. is “Charity
never faileth,” and this spirit should per-
meate throughout the organization, for it is
the spirit of the blesssd Savior who left  to
the world the Golden Rule which if applied
would make us all better and truer followers
of Him who said: “If you love me feed my
sheep.”


