[Column 1]
have persuaded the Cortez to authorize her
confinement as a person of disordered intel-
lect. Phillip’s reign was short as he died
on the 25th of September, 1506. Ferdinand
held the reins of government for Joanna;
finally his desire for a son to succeed him
was so great that shortly after Isabella’s
death he married Germaine, daughter of his
sister, (Leanora the queen of Navarre,)
His wish had nearly been realized, Queen
Germaine was delivered of a son in March
1509, but the infant only lived a few hours.
Ferdinand began to be impatient and mor-
bid and his health declined so rapidly that
it was evident that his days were numbered.
He passed the last month of his life at the
country seat of the Duke of Alva, and died
in January, 1516.
	By the death of his grandfather, (Ferdin-
and) Charles I. took possession of the throne
of Spain by the title of Charles V. On the
death of his paternal grandfather (Max-
millian) he was elected Emperor of Ger-
many. Under the reign of Charles V.
the nation continued to advance higher and
higher and he seemed to take everything
before him, until in 1552 he was obliged to
flee before Duke Maurice of Saxony. The
season of the most brilliant results is not
that of the greatest national prosperity, the
boasted reign was dearly purchased by the 
decline of industry and the loss of liberty.
Charles V. celebrated his own obsequies,
his domestics marched in funeral procession
with black tapers, he followed in his
shroud and was laid in his coffin with great
solemnity. The length of the ceremony or
the impression which this left on his mind
so affected him that he resigned his crown
and retired to a monastery and died in
1558.
	Phillip II. was the son of Charles V. and
Isabella of Portugal, he was an accom-
plished linguist and mathematician and a
connoisseur in architecture and fine arts.
In 1554 he married Mary Tudor, Queen of
England, daughter of Henry VIII. and
Catherine of Arragon. After Mary died he
made an attempt to gain the hand of Eliza-
beth but was unsuccessful, and finally mar-
ried Isabella of France. His life  was no-
toriously wicked and licentious, his suffer-
ings were terrible, his body was entirely
covered with ulcers; his death must have
been a great relief to him and all around
him.
	In 1598 on the death of his father Phillip
III. came to the throne, he was married to
Margaret of Austria, his second wife was
Isabella of France. His reign of twenty-
three years was chiefly noted for the cruel
expulsion of the Moors from all parts of
Spain where they had sought refuge during
the last reign. In 1609, 600,000 individuals
were forcibly driven from their homes and
landed on the shores of Africa, there to be
treated even worse by the most cruel and
perfidious of the human family.
	Phillip IV., son of Phillip III. and Isa-
bella of France, began to reign in 1621. In
1615 he married Elizabeth of France, his
second wife was Marie Anne of Austria.
He ascended the throne when but seven-
teen, he was extravagant and dissipated,
his reign was most unfortunate, he was at
war with France, Holland, Sweden and
England. In 1640 Portugal freed herself
from Spanish yoke. Since the days of
Roderick the Goth, a more disastrous reign
than his had not darkened the annals of
Spain.
	Charles II., son of Phillip IV. and Marie

