HOTEL METROPOLE.

Avalon, Santa Catalina Island, Cal.
					July 8, 1898.
Dr. Pratt, President, and ladies of the
		Press Club:
	I send you my most cordial and affection-
ate greetings; my sincere wishes for a
pleasant and restful summer.
	I will tell you as briefly as I can in a
letter what I have been doing since I left
Utah. Two weeks were given to San Fran-
cisco and vicinity, with frequent calls at
Camp Merritt. The boys were quite well
and a credit to their state, but disappointed
that they were left as home guards when
they expected to sail soon for the Philip-
pines; but they need not be impatient they
may have their chance for active service
and destruction. While it looks now as if
the end were not far in the future, I am one
who believes the war will be long, I have
never felt quite sure it would end in a few
weeks. My sojourn was pleasant as I have
many dear friends there, while much time
was devoted to sight seeing.
	The last of June we came to Los Angeles,
“City of the Angels,” the garden of Eden
as one friend remarked, and truly with
Pasadena, Riverside and Santa Monica it is
the garden spot of California, though not so
beautiful as when I visited the place four
years ago—owing to the drouth. As usual
we had an earthquake, light said the people,
but it wakened me from a sound sleep and
my bed rocked three times and it was noisy.
A friend at Redoude said there was a wall
of kelp several feet high in front of their
cottage, so there must have been quite a
disturbance somewhere. We visited the
ostrich farm, not nearly so interesting as
the one at Phoenix, Arizona, the birds are
not so large.
	One of the most lovely halting places of
my journey was at Avalon, on Santa Cata-
lina Island. The train took us to San
Pedro harbor, we embarked on the steamer
Falcon and were soon plowing the blue
waters of Santa Catalina channel, the island
is about twenty miles distant. The trip
across is a delightful experience, we were
told, that a person must be extremely sen-
sitive to suffer with sea sickness, but a large
majority were sensitive. The sky is clear,
the water blue, the air balmy, the flying
fishes dart from the waves and fly an eighth
of a mile. Something over two hours sail
and the magic island is reached. Santa

