[Column 2]
ting sun glints the mountains yonder with
its beams of glory as in the days of old
when man was king. Now and then we
meet a man whose spirit gropes through the
murky atmosphere of personal appetite. A
member of this class went home last night,
and at supper protested against cold pota-
toes and a tough beefsteak; his wife who
had just returned from her club, asked him
if he measured the universe by a good meal.
She had spent the afternoon at a woman’s
club discussing the weighty problem and
potentialities of the human race, and cold
potatoes and a poor steak were but an in-
significent local issue. Go into our homes
and you will find, certainly, no more ex-
amples of heavy bread, of neglected duties
and husbands, of ragged and unwashed
children, than in states which women’s
clubs and suffrage have not invaded. No
fair, just man can look into the eyes of the
mother who bore him, or the wife who
guides the destiny of his own sons, and
deny her any club or political right which
is his.
	“Selfishness will pipe its lament, and
when the politicians realize that equal suf-
frage doubles the number of candidates for
office without increasing the number of
offices, they will anathematize the expan-
sion of the ballot with as much vigor as
Lord North cursed the memory of Colum-
bus for discovering a land that had cost him
so much in trouble, treasure and defeat.
	“If Mrs. Browning were living and in
Colorado she would have no occasion to
write of ‘women sobbing out of sight be-
cause men made the laws,’ for the influence
of women voters, and especially of the wo-
men’s clubs, can mould—almost dictate—
any new legislation.
WOMEN AS STATESMEN.
	“Women may develope the arts of a
statesman, but they can never be politicians.
When their personal ambition is at issue
they cannot dissemble. Since our consti-
tution women have voted in all school elec-
tions, and that is one department of
government in which politics and venality
have never found lodgment. What her in-
fluence has been in our school life is a hint
of what it will be in every direction where
morals and the public good are concerned.
	When the Israelites were broken with
corruption and dissension God gave a wo-
man to judge them; Deborah ruled them
for forty years, and the Bible adds ‘then
they had a rest.’ I have never been clear
whether the rest came as a result of her
rule, or because her reign was ended. But
in our land come rest or come dissension,
Deborah is to reign. The women’s libera-
tion movement which under the shadow of
the Rocky mountains has crystalized into
legal enfranchisement, is not a transient
impulse; we stand at its cradle, but few of
us will live to see the limits it will reach.
Liberty when unchained at Runnymede,
made the circuit of the globe. So with
equality, it is not a summer ripple upon the
political sea, but a strong, swelling tide,
whose waves will wash every civilized
shore.


“The trial has been called and it will
never be thrown out of court until the logic
of experience has proven whether the past
inequalities of man and woman were the
invention of man’s legislation or of divine
authority.
WOMAN IS HUMAN.
	“Woman’s clubs and her interest in pub-
lic questions have been a revelation to
many. Woman is found to be neither di-
vine nor Satanic, neither a slave nor an
angel, simply human. She is neither the
soulless creature of Homer or Milton, nor
the burlesque divinity of Cervantes, but a
being dowered with common sense and an
exalted purpose. Every attainment but in-
creases her moral and intellectual force
without damage to tile sublime character
of mother and wife. She may break some
of the chains of prejudice and conventionali-
ty, but she will not lose her womanhood.
Fear not that equality will make her mas-
culine, ‘man and woman created he them,’
and no belated act of justice on the part of
man can change the ordinance of God.
	“Proud as we are of the public’s past the
Higher and purer influence of woman in
public affairs should give a future still more
radiant and fair. Mrs. Stanton said that if
Miriam had been in charge of the children
of Israel that they would have reached
Canaan in forty days instead of wandering
like Gypsies for forty years. Perhaps had
woman been placed in our national consti-
tution it would not have taken one hun-
dred years and the first sons of a genera,
tion to eliminate slavery. Had the single
word ‘sex’ been inserted in the fifteenth
amendment, I believe that our nation
would be a generation in advance of its
present position on the problems of moral
and municipal reform.
INSPIRATION OF WOMAN.
	The nation owes a debt of gratitude to
women’s clubs. They have been an in-
spiration to its members, they have been
centers from which radiate electric currents
of moral and political reform. They have
broadened their own horizon and that of
the race. They have organized the eneigy
and intellect of woman and directed them
into every field of good, upon which falls
the smile of God or man.
	“Men have clubs for sport, pleasure and
dissipation. If we omit the Woman’s
Morning Whist club, which is as wasteful
as any club man can invent, women’s clubs
are universities, colleges, training schools
where post graduate degrees are taken in
citizenship, art and literature.
	“Woman’s sphere is no longer confined
to the washtub, the kitchen or the parlor.
	“Her sphere is now the grand whirling
globe with all its responsibilities and its
glories. The growth of woman’s clubs is
the greatest movement of this generation,
and as representatives of that beneficient
influence we greet you today. 
	“The faith Rome had in her vestal vir-
gins, Colorado has in her mothers, wives
and daughters; to them we gladly trust the
sacred fires of civilization, the palladium of
our liberties, and judging by the preponder-
ance of flowers and feathers at church ser-
vice, our religion also.
	“In the name of the women we love we
welcome you to a state, where the word
‘male’ has been eliminated from the laws
and the word ‘obey’ from the marriage
service.”


