THE RED CROSS.

	An important meeting of the American
National Red Cross Relief Committee was
recently held at the Chamber of Commerce
in New York City. Bishop Potter presided
and on the recommendation of Mr. W. T.
Wardwell the following appeal was issued:
	The American Nation[-]l Red Cross Relief Com-
mittee, acting und[-]r the au[-]pices of the Ameri-
can National Red Cross, has for its objects the
col ection of funds for providi g medical and
surgical attendance, nursing, medical supp[-]ies,
food, c othing and such necessary assistance as
may be required by the American National Red
Cross, u[-]on call of the United States Government
in order to unify all endeavors to that end during
the pres[-]nt war.
	Under p[-]o[-]isions of the Geneva Conference
from which every Na[-]ional Red Cross Society de-
rives its authority, the American National Red
Cross is directed to provide such relief as may be
required by all, wi[-]hout recognition of friend or
foe, who may suffer from the calamities incidental
to war pestilence or famine
	The Red Cross here, and throughout the civil-
ized world, by a wide and varied experience in
recent wars, recognizes by international treaty the
sacred obligat[-]ons of h[-]lpfulness for the suffe[-]ing
wherever found, has so perfected its organization
that it becomes the recognized and legitimate
channel for contributions from all classes of in-
dividuals and every variety of auxiliary associa-
tion.
	For the purpose of properly systematizing the
benevolent impulses of the general public and of
giving proper directions for efficient Red Cross
work, the Committee solicits the cooperation of
individuals and auxiliary associatio s throughout
the country, confideut that through such means
the various funds and articles collected can most
safely and most directly reach their ultimate des-
tination.
	To this appeal twenty-five names were
appended—those of a newly organized
committee; from them Bishop Potter, ex-
Governor Morton. Mr. Wardwell, Drs.
Thomas, Lesser and Shrady were appointed
to second the offer already made to the
United States of the services of the Red
Cross in the war with Spain. Interviews
were then had at Washington with the
President, the Secretaries of War, the Navy
and the Surgeons-General of the Army and
Navy. The guarantee of the official offer
was accepted, subject to such regulations as
the medical officers of the Government shall
prescribe. In accordance with Mr. Mc-
Kinley’s wishes, a meeting was held on
Saturday May 14, of representatives from the
American Red Cross Relief Committee and
the National Relief Association. The fol-
lowing general plan of national organiza-
tion was agreed upon:
	First—One society to be known as the National
Red Cross Relief Commssion.
	Second—State societies to be organized and
known by their State titles.
	Third—Contributions to be designated for the
purpose to which they are to be applied—namely,
for the work of the Red Cross or the work of the
Relief Committee.  
	Fourth—The American National Red Cross to
have its own peculiar field of work, as designated
by its constitution and by the international
treaties; the Relief Committee to have its parti-
cular field, as set forth in the call for relief.
	Auxiliaries to the Red Cross work are
rapidly forming. Among these auxiliaries
are the Ladies Auxiliary of the General Re-
lief Committee; the committees from the
Daughters of the American Revolution;
the college and university committees, such
as the Columbia University Red Cross
Auxiliary; and special auxiliaries, such as
the Ambulance Red Cross Equipment Soci-
ety.—The Outlook.


