[Column 2]
charming women, intellectual, artistic,
brilliant, sentimental, grand and tender
were the many celebrated women from dif-
ferent parts of the country, authors, artists,
singers, musicians, clever in special lines
and with such exquisile taste and tact, one
wonders how it was possible for so many
women with such marked individuality to
affiliate so happily as they did.
	Jane Addams of Hull House fame stands
almost on a pinnacle in her economic, phil-
anthropic, enterprise for industrial women.
Mrs. Sydney Webb of England is also
very famous along these lines. Mrs. Webb’s
speech was “How to do away with the
sweating system.” Many young women
work in this direction, Corinne M. Brown
and women still younger representing work-
ing girls’ c[-]ubs of very large numbers, the
history of which was unique and the young
women an inspiration in their presence,
Miss Burkhardt, Miss Mathews, Mrs. Kem-
ler, Miss Haas and Miss Harrington.
	The authors most notable and best known
were Miss Agnes Repplier, Mrs. Ruth Mc-
Enery Stuart, Mrs. Kate Tannatt Woods
whom the writer has known for many
years, and who is now sojourning for a
time in this city, and who knew the cele-
brated Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, Ralph
Waldo Emerson and all those famous con-
temporary celebrities. Some time soon we
will give our readers a sketch of her life
and work, and here we must mention Miss
Alice French (Octave Thanet) and Helen M.
Winslow, editor of The Club Woman, the
official organ of clubs. When one comes to
newspaper women they were there from all
parts of the country, a very fine represen-
tation. In the world of art Mrs. Candace
Wheeler, the most famous woman, and
Miss Anna Caulfield deserve special men-
tion. In education Mrs. Mary E. Mumford,
Mrs. Harriet Heller, and Mrs. Ellen M.
Richardson and Mrs. Calvin S. Brice, in
the National University of Mrs. Richard-
son we desire to write later on. In Parlia-
mentary authority Mrs. H. R. Shuttuck and
Ellen Spencer Mussey, and in looking over
the list one stands appalled at the long ar-
ray of names of distinguished women in
literature, art, science, reform and indus-
trial progress.
	The Utah delegation did creditable work
and made a good representation and Utah
came in for her share of honor, one mem-
ber of the board of directors in the General
Federation, Mrs. Antoinette B. Kinney,
also Mrs. Martha B. Royle was placed on
the Roll of honor of the G. F. W. C., a dis-
tinction which Mrs. Royle rightly deserves,
a position which she will certainly dignify.
	It was a great source of satisfaction to the
writer that a Southern woman was elected
president of the Federation, Mrs. Rebecca
B. Lowe of Georgia, and we believe and
feel assured she will be liberal in her
views and magnanimous in her work
and prove herself a genuine, whole-souled
leader for all sections of this free country.


