MRS. GATES’ LETTER.

Provo, July 19, 1898.
My Dear Aunt Em:

	After the convention closed in Denver on
June 27th I remained in Denver, as you
know, as the guest of Apostle John W.
Taylor. I had a most delightful visit with
Brother Taylor and his kind, gentle wife,
receiving many attentions also from the
Elders in that mission; I must mention the
kindness of Elders Ensign and Graham,also
the unfailing courtesy of Elder White, not
forgetting the thoughtfulness of Brother
Pack and the exceeding sweetness of Elder
Clive’s magic violin. In short all the
Elders were as good to me as if I had been
their own mother, and I shall not soon for-
get my visit nor the pleasant friendships re-
newed and formed.
	Apostle Taylor called the sisters of the
Relief Society together in Denver and we
spent an hour or so at Sister Taylor’s talk-
ing upon the duties and privileges of this
organization. Sister Lowery, a lady from
Boston, is the president of the organization
there. She is of a very mild and yet strong-
character with perfect manners and a will- 
ing, helpful disposition. She is very anx-
ious for more light and assistance in her
duties, and I recommended her to take
the "Exponent" and communicate with
you. There are thirty sisters in this branch,
who are very earnest and faithful members.
	The next branch visited was Colorado
Springs which has just been organized since
last February. There are only four fami-
lies in this branch and all the women be- 
long to the Relief Society. Sister Lenora
Adams is the president with Sister Dena
Myers as first and Alice Johnson as second 
counselors and Susie Johnson as secretary
and treasurer. I gave them some iustruc-
tion as to the duties of officers, mode of con-
ducting meetings and blessed them as the


Spirit suggested in their labors.  It was
very interesting to examine thus the be-
ginning of the great work which grows al-
ways with uplifting power. All these
branches and the branches of the Church
are of very recent origin and in great con-
trast to the old, well established organiza-
tions which I have attended in my life.
	At Pueblo Apostle Taylor joined us and
we held three public meetings. Also or-
ganized the Relief Society.
	We have great reason to rejoice in the
great blessings meted out to the Saints and
for the rapid spread and increase of the
work of God. I trust you yourself will
some day be able to visit these faithful and
earnest sisters of the Colorado mission.
			Yours lovingly,
