[Column 2]
	Mrs. Mary S. Gist and Mrs. Kate Tan-
natt Woods addressed a few ladies in the
lecture hall of the L. D. S. college rooms
in the Templeton, Tuesday evening, July
5. Mrs. Gist spoke of the W. N. P. A.
and of the Cuban Relief Committee, both
of Washington, D. C., and Mrs. Woods
read some of her celebrated poems and gave
personal reminiscences that were exceeding-
ly entertaining. It was a delightful eve-
ning.
	The Mothers’ Congress which was held
in the Asssmbly Hall in this city commenc-
ing June 30, and closing July 2, was a
complete success, and being the first of its
kind in the West demonstrated the fact that
Western women are alive to the best inter-
ests and welfare of the nation of which they
are an important part. Later we hope to
give a condensed account of the proceed-
ings, but our people, the Latter-day Saints,
have ever been alive upon the question of
motherhood, and through the Council of
Health and the Relief Society and other or-
ganizations of a later date have been incul-
cating the knowledge and insisting upon
the holiness of this condition, and its mani-
fold duties, obligations and responsibilities.
	Mrs. Clara B. Colby, editor of the Wo-
man’s Tribune, Washington, D. C., has
been duly accredited to the war Depart-
ment as a correspondent for her paper. It
is the first and only woman’s paper to re-
ceive such a pass, and only five or six wo-
men in all have been thus favored. War
correspondents have admission to the camps
and to the field, but have to report at head-
quarters and have their passes counter-
signed by the General in command. Their
passes enable them to be included in ar-
rangements for transportation, etc., they
bearing their own expenses. Their
movements are subject to such restrictions
as the commanding officers may impose
from time to time.
	Mrs. Margaret Blaine Salisbury invited
the members of the George Washington
Memorial Association to meet in her elegant
new residence and to hear Mrs. Ellen A.
Richardson of Boston, president of the soci-
ety, speak of the work from its ideal side,
and also to present to Mrs. Richardson a
summary of the Utah work. Mrs. Rich-
ardson gave us many facts, also many of her
own beautiful thoughts upon the Univer-
sity side, and the great success already at-
tained and her ardent hopes and aspirations
for the future. Mrs. Fabian read the re-
port, which was most encouraging. The
work appeals directly to the nation’s honor
and to each loyal individual man, woman
and child. Mrs. Richardson enters heart
and soul into the work.
	On Friday, July 8, Mrs. Sol. Siegel enter-
tained in her lovely home a lunch party of
fourteen ladies to meet her guest. Miss
Grace Carew Sheldon of Buffalo, N. Y.
The whole place was a bower of fragrance
and beauty, from the clematis at the doorway
through the entire suite of rooms opened
for the occasion. The table decorations
were unique, sweet peas in dainty bunches
tied with colored ribbon lay at each place,
also a card with the name, a flower of
diminutive size and a line which indicated
its meaning and expressed tender sentiment.
In the center of the table a large quaint
bowl of the most beautiful sweet peas and
two small but perfect flags indicated that
the loyal spirit of patriotism prevailed even


in this social gathering. Mrs. Woods of
Boston was one of the party and came in
for a share of the honors. Mrs. Siegel is a
charming hostess and her brilliant wit and
appetizing viands were greatly complimented
	Mrs. W. P. Lynn gave on Thursday July 7,
an afternoon party to forty or more ladies at
her home in this city, as an ovation to Mrs.
Kate Tannatt Woods of Boston, whose
very presence savors of celebrities such as
Holmes, Longfellow, Emerson, Alcott,
Whittier and other contemporaries who were
associated with her girlhood days. Mrs.
Lynn is original in all her ways and dur-
ing the afternoon several new surprises
burst upon the company. In the room
among other floral decorations pendant from
the chandelier were the three letters of
her guest’s name, K. T. W. in white
flowers. A card was presented to each lady,
hand painted with flowers by herself and a
quotation in Mrs. Woods’ writing and each
lady was expected to guess the au-
thor’s name, which caused considerable mer-
riment. Candies were passed with the ini-
tial K. T. W. on each piece, and the dain-
tiest refreshments served, one course after
another until one wondered what the next
surprise would be. Mrs. Woods read one
or two of her own poems which have been
illustrated and widely circulated in gift
books, and told us many interesting
things of Louise Alcott and Abraham Lin-
coln and others known to fame. Mrs. Norah
Gridley of Chicago gave one or two inci-
dents relating to President Lincoln in a
most graphic manner. We feel greatly
indebted to Mrs. Lynn for a delightful
afternoon, her own sweet self, her famous
guest and her pretty home, exquisite with
flowers and with good fellowship will ever
be a picture in memories’ cabinet.
	The visitors from the Federation at Den-
ver speak highly of the attention they have
received  in this city, also the Mining Con-
gress ladies. It is a source of satisfaction
that the Club committees on entertainment
and reception succeeded so well—the recital
in the Tabernacle, the trip to Saltair and
the reception given by Mrs. F. S. Richards
at her elegant home on the last evening of
the Mothers’ Congress were all up to date
affairs, particularly the reception; the house
was beautifully decorated and the guests
numerous and many distinguished people.
Among the strangers were Judge and Mrs.
Howell of Detroit, Michigan; Mrs. Kate
Tannatt Woods, poet, author, lecturer and
press woman, vice-president of the N. W.
P. A. for the state of Massachusetts and an
officer in the New England Press Club and
in many other clubs; Mrs. Ellen M. Hen-
rotin of Chicago, ex-president of the G.F.W.
C.; Mrs. Ellen A. Richardson of. Boston,
Mass., president of the George Washington
Memorial Association; Miss Grace Carew
Sheldon, author and newspaper corres-
pondent; Mrs. Mary S. Gist, vice-president
of the Women’s National Press Association
of Washington, D. C. and Regent Continen-
tal Chapter D. A. R., and member Ex.
Com. Cuban Relief Association, also a
newspaper woman; Mrs. Harriet Hellar of
Omaha, who was one of the speakers at the
Biennial in Denver and at the Mothers’
Congress in this city; Mrs. Norah Gridley
of Chicago, who is distinguished in many
lines of literature and others whose names
are familiar to the public. Mrs. Richards
and family may congratulate themselves on
having so many celebrated visitors as
guests of the occasion.


