CONFERENCE.

(Continued)

	Afternoon session. Conference at 2 p.
m , Mrs. Young presiding. Singing “Re-
deemer of Israel.” Prayer by Counselor
B. W. Smith. Singing “Let those who
would be Saints indeed.”
	President Horne of Salt Lake Stake was
thankful to be remembered in the faith and
prayers of the Saints and glad that her life
was preserved. These conferences were to
feed us with the bread of life, if we did not
get food for our spirits we should die off,
spoke of the temporal mission of storing
grain given us by President Young, the
Lord said He would do nothing without
revealing it to His servants the prophets.
"If you cannot help to store grain you can
save a few cans of flour, it has been proven
it will keep twenty years. We see com-
motion all over the world, consider the
signs of the times, read the Bible, the
Book of Mormon and the sayings of the
modern prophets; read what President
Woodruff has said, the Savior’s coming is
near, we cannot avert the indignation of the
Lord, the earth is bringing to pass the pro-
phecies.
	Let us say like Joshua of old ‘As for me
and my house we will serve the Lord.' He
will fight  our battles, we shall not be held
guiltless if we do not keep His command-
ments. ‘If ye love not one another ye are
not mine,’ so said the Savior.
	Counselor Luna Thatcher of Cache Stake
said, “We have had advice in regard to
our younger sisters and we feel that there
has been quite a revival in the work of the
Society in our Stake, we do try to keep up
an earnestness among the sisters and we
seek the Spirit of the Lord to aid us in all
we say and do, we treasure up words of
counsel and instruction, we visit the sisters
in the wards and settlements and try to
keep up with all that is required.
	President Louisa Haight of Cassia Stake,
felt great timidity mingled with pleasure.
It was the first time she had had the op-
portunity to come and represent the Soci-
ety in the general conference. Said, “I
have had poor health and we have bad
roads and sometimes snow, but I made up
my mind to come this spring if possible.
We cannot draw near to each other as we
would like to do we are so scattered, part
of our Stake on one side, Cassia, and own
the divide the Goose Creek side. Last sum-
mer we visited all around, twelve hundred
miles through the vales and over the hills.
I feel my weakness and strive to overcome
my imperfections. I don’t know that there
is anything more to report, that we may be
united is my prayer."
	Sister Mary Bell Heywood of Panguitch,
was glad to see so many dear ones whose
names were familiar, but could see they've
grown old, the dear old faces. We have
between seven and eight hundred bushels of
wheat in our Stake, but some don’t believe
in our saving grain.” She rejoiced in
the work of the Relief Society and in meet-
ing her old friends, prayed the blessing of
the Lord on all our efforts.
	Sister Mary Bagley of Bear Lake Stake,
said, “We have a good amount of wheat
stored, we have twenty-four branches and
one organized within the last week, two
annual and semi-annual conferences and
two district conferences.  This is my first
attempt in reporting the Stake. I am grate-

