		SANPETE STAKE. 
	Minutes of the Relief Society conference 
of the Sanpete Stake of Zion held at Mt. 
Pleasant, June 10, 1898, President M. A. 
Hyde presiding. Singing “Redeemer of
Israel.” Prayer by Sister Neilsen. Sing-
ing "Come, come ye Saints.
	Opening remarks were made by Presi-
dent Hyde. She spoke of a meeting she 
had attended in Salt Lake City and de- 
livered a kindly message of love from Aunt 
Zina. Referred to the progress of the 
work as reported by the missionaries. 
Minutes of the previous conference were 
read and approved. Verbal reports were 
given by representatives from the following 
wards: Spring City, Ephraim north and 
south wards, Manti north and south wards 
Mt. Pleasant, Chester, Centerfield, Fayette; 
Milburn, Indianola. Moroni, Gunnison
Freedom and Mayfield represented by let-
ter, all represented except Sterling and
Wales.
	President M. A. Hyde related a case of 
healing by faith which had recently come 
under her observation, also spoke on the 
word of wisdom. Singing “Earth with
her ten thousand flowers.” Benediction
by Elder Moroni Jensen. 
	Afternoon session:—Singing “How firm
a foundation.” Prayer by Elder Edward 
Cliff. Singing “Our God we raise to
Thee.”
	President Hyde deplored the fact that the 
gifts of the Gospel were not more exer- 
cised. Said that Elders had come to the 
Relief Society meeting in order to hear the 
gift of tongues and the interpretation there-
of, in order that they might testify to these 
things to an unbelieving world when called 
on missions. Exhorted the sisters to be


diligent in watching over their sons as
well as their daughters.
	President M. F. C. Morrison of Mt.
Pleasant was much interested in the wel-
fare of the young people, told the mothers
to gather the children together and instruct
them and find out what company they keep.
	Stake Counselor Abigail Shoemaker
hoped the sisters were striving to live their
religion. Thought both old and young
should take an interest in the meetings.
	Stake Counselor A. L. Cox was pleased
to hear the good reports from the various
branches of the Society and also at the
good spirit which had prevailed during the
conference. Made reference to the present
war with Spain and the judgment which
would eventually be poured out on that
nation in consequence of centuries of in-
tolerance and oppression. Said we should
be a progressive people, and should seek
for the spirit of discernment that we might
be able to understand the signs of the times,
also referred to the storing of wheat, said it
was a sacred trust to the sisters and that it
should not be used for any other purpose
than that for which it was gathered, that is
for a day of famine.
	Sister Peel told how much she appreciat-
ed the blessings of the Lord to His people
during the time of poverty and trial.
	Brother Cliff had rejoiced and been built
up while listening to the remarks of the
sisters. He spoke of the war and said that
all of our boys who responded to their
country’s call and who enlist with the
right spirit would be preserved as were the
sons of Helaman.
	President Acord of the Stake Primary
desired to have the parents take an inter-
est in the children and visit their meetings.
Said they should not think it was of little
importance.
	Singing “O, say what is truth.” Bene-
diction by Brother Hafeau. Conference
adjourned for three months.
	Since the conference the Stake counselors
have visited all the branches in the
Stake and found them all in good condition
and alive to their duties.
	A.L. COX, Act. Cor. Sec.


