Vol. 25.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, JANUARY 1, 1897.	No. 13


CONTENTS:

	The Modern Esther—L. M. H. National
American Annual Meeting—Rachel Foster Avery.
Leaves From My Journal—Kim. U. W. P. C.—
Orielle Curtis Sec. R. S. Reports. In Memoriam.
An Offering Of Love—M. A. Ball. S. L. Co.
W. S. A.—Cassie C. Newman, Sec. A Curious
Prophecy. The Woman’s Congress In Berlin—
Eliza Ichenhauser. Notes And News.
	EDITORIAL:—Home Industries And Home Pro-
ductions. Editorial Notes. Holiday Weddings.
A Quiet Home Wedding. Holiday Wedding
Bells. Another Holiday Wedding.
	POETRY:—New Years’ Day—H. W. Naisbett.
The Year Of Jubilee—R. M. F. Utah—Orielle
Curtis. A Rosebud. After All—Hyacinth. Un-
requited—L. M. H.


NEW YEAR’S DAY.

SALT LAKE CITY 1897.
SOFTLY the twilight gathers,
	The curtains of evening fall,
The Sun had gone down in splendor,
	And crimsoned the mountains tall.
His train o’er the Western heavens, 
	Illumed with a roseate glow;
As if’t were a benediction,
	That the Lord to man would show.
The day had been ideal,—
	One such as the Poet’s love;
As sweet as if April’s angel,
	Had lured it from above;
Strange for the seasons greeting—
	The first of the opening year,
Suggestive, or full of promise,
	As welcome without a tear.
In the air was a Sabbath spirit,—
	The spirit of lovelit peace,
Care had its pinions folded,
	Had given the world release—
As rare as are Angels visits,
	Perhaps they were hovering nigh.
Unseen by the common senses,
	But felt by a keener tie ?
The earth wore a snow-white mantle
	From valley to mountain peak,
Which sun-kissed wept and melted,
	As’t were when the spring first speaks.
I hailed the day at its dawning,
	I loved it as on it flew,
And its evening shadows filled me,
	With dreams that may yet come true.
’Twas an omen of good most surely,
	A portent of happier times,
For the poor—the toiling millions,
	Who greeted the New Year’s chimes;
Work is the needed blessing,
	And pay when ’tis earned at last, 
That the smiling wife and children,
	May forget the fearful past!
And surely the morning dawneth,
	The break of the day is nigh,
I hail it while this day’s shadows,
	Creep over the starlit sky.
When this year’s curtain falleth,
	If the Christ hath not appeared,
’Tis that much nearer toiler,
	Let thy waiting heart be cheered.
				H. W. NAISBETT.


THE YEAR OF JUBILEE.

ALL hail! the year of jubilee
	Proud Utah sends thee greeting
The hills and vales thy welcome ring
	The streams with joy are leaping.
A royal time is being planned
	Expressly for thy pleasure;
Speak thou the word—and earth shall yield
	Of stores full bounteous measure.
And we will pour it at thy feet
	That thou may’st feast thy vision
On wealth and products of that soil
	Men once held in derision.
For scarcely fifty years ago
	These broad and fertile valleys
Were sterile, drear and desolate
	None dwelt here but the savage.
Come clamber up the mountain side
	View hamlet, field and garden
Look up the treasures of the hills
	Our pride then thou wilt pardon.
Glance now thine eye on yonder lake.
	Behold that sunset golden
Where fleecy, crimson-tinted clouds
	The snow-clad peaks enfolding.
O, wondrous change the years have wrought
	Since our gallant pioneers 
Braved countless dangers fearing not
	But with the eye of Love
They saw the barren wilderness,
	Would blossom, bloom and flourish;
With cattle on a thousand hills,
	The meek and poor to nourish.
Here they unfurled the stars and stripes
	An ensign to the nations,* 
Then bowed in reverence to Him
	Whose arm was their salvation.
And now in this their jubliee,
	We witness their predictions
Fulfilled, applaud them for their faith
	And honor their convictions.
All blessing on their silvered heads
	Though few with us remaining,
A mighty monument they’ve reared
	Our lasting homage claiming.
Ring the bells for ninety-seven
	Let’s have a great rejoicing;
Forgiveness, love and peace abound
	The ancient custom voicing.
Praise Him who led us to these vales,
	With song and acclamation,
And give those grand old pioneers,
	A glorious ovation.
							R. M. F.
*Ensign peak.


[Column 1]
THE MODERN ESTHER.

	SHE has come, no mistake about that.
And she has come to the kingdom too, and
reigns a queen. The world has had its age
of bronze, its age of iron and of gold, some
affirm that this is the age of paper, others
call it the age of silver, but this is pre-em-
inently the age of woman. Deborah has
arisen, Joan of Arc has taken the field—and
Esther has mounted the throne.

[Column 2]
Men may be reluctant and
must of stern necessity bow to the inevi-
table. Women are pressing their way into
almost every profession and into places once
monopolized by men. They have long
been demanding equal opportunities of
higher education, and now the foremost
universities in the world are rejoicingly
welcoming them. And we have not been
informed of any calamitous consequences
following which the pessimistic prophets
predicted. Woman cannot get away from
herself, and so long as she is what she is
we have no grave apprehensions that the
relation of the sexes will be radically alter-
ed. Yet without unsexing herself or
violating any of the cherished proprieties,
she is undoubtedly coming to the front.
A quaint old preacher commenting upon
the saying of our Lord “She hath done
what she could,” very pithily added,
“Yes and she has done what she thought
she couldn’t.”
	An overwhelming majority of church
members all over the civilized world are
women and the great bulk of the work is
done by the women; the visitation of
the sick, the clothing of the poor, the teach-
ing of the Sunday and mission schools,
industrial school work, Hospital work,
homes for the friendless, refuges for erring
women, orphanages, all manner of chari-
table institutions. If woman was foremost
in the fall, she is first and foremost in every
enterprise that has for its object the uplift-
ing of humanity and the glory of God.
Women are banding themselves together
for assisting in the world’s evangelization
both at home and abroad, organizing
training schools for the purpose of sending
out Bible readers by the hundreds, raising
money by the hundred thousand, and
thousands have administered these affairs 
with an energy and ability that has fairly
put the men to shame. It is evident that
the Great All Father is calling out all the
reserves and marshalling them for the last
decisive conflict,—the millions of stalwart
men, the women a mighty host, and the
badged and bannered young people flushed
with enthusiasm and girded with high re-
solve for noble deeds. All hail to all of
these moving armies! and if any pessimis-
tic looker on is afraid that somebody will
go too far, let him fall into line and begin
marching on, keeping step with time and it
will not be very long before he will find
himself fearing that nobody will go half far
enough.
						L. M. H.


MRS. BELVA A. LOCKWOOD, of Wash-
ington, who was one of the delegates from
the United States to the second Internation-
al Congresses held at Geneva, Switzerland,
in September last, to consider the adminis-
tration of public charities and the protection
of children, has made an instructive report
to the Department of State.
	MISS MARY F. FIELD, a daughter of the
late Eugene Field, is making a beginning
as a public reader. She reads only from
her father’s writings.


WOMANS EXPONENT


NATIONAL AMERICAN ANNUAL
MEETING.

	THE Executive Committee of the Nation-
al American Woman’s Suffrage Association,
voting by correspondence, has decided upon
Des Moines, Iowa, as the place for holding
its annual convention for 1897.
	The dates are Wednesday, Jan 27, to
Saturday, Jan 29, inclusive.
	Des Moines has hospitably arranged to
entertain the Businesss Committee of the
N. A. W. S. A., and the President of each
State organization in attendance, or her
proxy. To all regularly appointed delegates
from State organizations, they offer lodging
and breakfast without cost, and have
arranged to have dinner and tea served at a
nominal price in the building in which the
Convention will be held.
	It is hoped that taking the Convention
thus into the middle West, we shall have a
large representation from all our State
Associations. RACHEL FOSTER AVERY,
				Cor. Sec. N. A. W. S. A.
Phila., Pa., Nov. 27, 1896.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

		BOLOGNA, Italy.
		Friday, Dec. 6, 1895.
	Express train via Padua to Venice.
Padua, “Italian Padova,” was founded
according to “Ancient tradition” by
Antenor, the brother-in-law of Priam, and is
famous for its University. Among its
alumni were Savonarola, Tasso, Petrarch
and Galileo, whose statues adorn the Pizza
Vittosia Emanuele.
	The church S. Antonio begun in 1256, is
very imposing with seven domes, and is
rich in paintings, sculptures and works of
Art. The Scuola del Santo has frescoes by
Titian and his pupils. S. Maria dell’
Arena, or Giotto’s chapel contains frescoes
which are among his best works. In one
church is an altar piece by Paul Veronese.
	“Venice in June,” gave our approach
via Adriatic Sea.
	We now approach the city by a railway
bridge more than two miles long, consist-
ing of long embankments and 222 arches,
costing nearly a million dollars.
	We left the cars and entered the gon-
dolas waiting for us, a few moments'
brought us to the Grand Hotel. Although
the winter day was sombre and there were
no singers, the gondola ride and the Medie-
val Palaces were still enchanting.
	We dined, then spent the evening ramb-
ling through the quaint alleys and on the
Grand Square of St. Mark, the pigeons
were so numerous and tame, it was difficult
to walk and not step upon them.
	This square is the centre of all that is
loveliest in Venice. On the E. side is St.
Marks Church, the N. the Procuratie
Vecchi, with the clock tower, (La Torre
dell’ Orologio,) built in 1496, the hours
are struck on a bell by two bronze figures.
The Piazzetta is a small square opening to
the South near the angle it makes with the
Piazza, is the Campanile and on the E. side
is the Ducal Palace, on the W. the Library
and Mint, to the seaward the two columns
of granite one bearing the winged lion of St.
Mark, the other the statue of St. Theodore.
St. Mark was built in the 11th Cent.,
Byzantine style with Gothic additions of the
14th Cent. and Renaissance alterations of
the 17th Cent. Above the portal are the

[Column 2]
bronze horses which Constantine carried
from Rome to Constantinople, whence Zeno
broght back in 1205; they were taken to
Paris by Nap. in 1797 and restored to Venice
in 1815. The church has a great dome in
thecentre and four smaller ones crown the
arms of the cruciform structure the Mosaics
of the exterior and interior cover more than
an acre, are on a background of gold gild-
ing and are very beautiful, the bronze and
rich marbles are splendid.
	It is impossible to describe the Ducal
Palace. We entered by the Scala dei
Giganti or Giants staircase from the court-
yard. The interior is a rich gallery of
Venetian Art, the great Council Hall con-
tains portraits of 76 Doges and Tintorretto’s
Paradise, the Palace is connected on the E.
side with prison (Le Prigione) by the
Bridge of Sighs, so called because when the
prisoners crossed over for their trial, if
innocent they left the Palace by the
front door, if guilty were placed in the dun-
geons below and never again crossed the
bridge.
	Saturday, Dec. 7—Early morning found
us in our gondolas to see the Old Palaces
situated on the Grand Canal. Our hotel
was once the Palace Terro (14th Cent.) and
the Palace Tini Wimpffen, and next to it
is the pretty Palazzo Contarini Tasau,
known as the Palace of Desdemona, the
Palace Mocenigo was occupied by Byron.
	The Arsenal has a gateway of Renaissance
workmanship. “Sharp and expressive in
its ornamental sculpture,” in front are
four Greek lions brought from the Piraens
in 1687, the museum contains old arms,
armor and instruments of torture.
	We visited the factory which is very
interesting. The rest of the day we de-
voted to churches—that of the Jesuits, the
interior is curious, the walls being covered with
imitation of drapery in white marble inlaid
with green, it contains Titians Martyrdom
of St Laurence. St. Sebastine is famous for
pictures by P. Veronise who is buried here.
St. Rocco has pictures by Tintoretto and
Scuola di San Rocco is one of the three
most precious buildings in Italy, the others
being the Sistine Chapel at Rome and the
Campo Santo at Pisa.
	Sunday, Dec. 8—Attended Church San
Marco, the sermon was no doubt eloquent
but could not understand a word, the music
was fine, the organ filled the Church with
rich, full tones. After lunch went to the
Scotch Presbyterian Church but the Pastor’s
wife stood at the door saying, Dr. Robert-
son was ill and there would be no service,
she gave us her card, inviting us to tea on
Monday, saying on that day they received
strangers, and if they felt lonely might
make or meet friends, in a strange land all
the world was kin. Was sorry not to attend
but left Venice on that day.
	Monday, Dec. 9—Early morning train
for Milan via Verona, 72 miles from Venice.
On our other Tour we stopped at Verona.
The churches are very fine mostly Gothic,
the Cathedral is of the 14th Cent. and con-
tains an assumption by Titian and S.
Fermo Maggiore 14th Cent., has a carved
roof of larch wood and in one chapel a fine
altar-piece by Caroto, other churches con-
tain valuable pictures by Tintoretto, P.
Veronise and other artists. Our desire was
to see in this old city the tomb of Juliet.
A rude Sarcophagus was kept in the garden
of an old Franciscan Monastery on the right
bank of the Aolige, the house of the Capu-
lets is on the street San Sabastino.

[Column 3]
	From Verona to Milan is 93 miles. When
I came before took the other route, Turin
to Milan. That road passes through
Novara near which the battle was fought,
and through the memorable battle field of
Magenta. This is the most interesting
route. We pass the Castles of the Montec-
chi, the Montagues of Romeo and Juliet
and Lake Garda, near and toward this was
fought the battle of Solferino, 24th of June,
1859, Austrians defeated by Nap. III.
Saw the house at Villafranca, where the
treaty between the French and Austrian
Emperors was signed July 11, 1859. The
City of Milan, Capitol of Lombardy, is en-
tered through a beautiful arch. When last
here it was warm, the ladies were out on
the streets with lace veils or shawls draped
on their heads something like the Spanish
style. It is a walled city, the interior of
the walls laid out with gardens and planted
with trees, the streets are elegantly paved,
it is a pleasure to walk on them, the foot
paths next the houses are six feet wide of
smooth granite. We drove about the city
and to the suppressed Monastery of St.
Maria delle Grazie, to see Da Vincis Last
Supper. The painting is on the wall and
much defaced as the church was once used
as a stable in time of war; in spite of which
you can see how beautiful was the painting,
although of the 14th Cent. the beautiful
colors still remain. The Church St. Am-
brose founded in the 14th Cent. in its pre-
sent form to the 12th is most interesing.
Here the old Lombard kings received the
“Iron Crowns,” the frescoes and mosaics
are beautiful it has a golden altar-front.
The Brera, a Palace of Science and Art con-
tains in the picture gallery Raphael’s
Sposalizio, or the marriage of the Virgin.
Next we visited the Cathedral with its
delicate tracery and forest of pinnacles, built
in the form of a Latin cross, its interior is
490 feet in length, 185 feet in width, with
nave 155 feet in height, the dome is 220 ft.
in height from the pavement to the top of
the tower 360 feet. The roof has 98 Gothic
turrets, the exterior is adorned with 4,400
marble statues, its beautiful tower and
spires are all surmounted by a statue, the
nterior has double clustered pillars, lofty
arches, niches in the walls filled with figures
and grand monuments. The scene with
the sun shining through the magnificent
stained windows and rose window is strik-
ingly beautiful, just that wavy beautiful
effect of light and shade one gets in a for-
est.
	Among the treasures is a Veil from the
true cross, a silver altar, solid silver
statues, Bibles with the covers filled with
rare jewels, robes of cloth of gold and cloth
of silver, rare laces and wealth untold.
One room is nearly all silver. A Bishop of
Milan lies there in a crystal casket with
gold trimmings, a screen of gold and silver
covers this. He is robed in cloth of gold
with crown and scepter, crosses and rings
of dimaonds, rubies, emeralds and sapphires.
Upon a silver table the candles, and around
the room in solid silver bas-relief is his his-
tory from the cradle to the grave, while up-
on all the chairs is his monogram in silver.
We ascended to the roof of the Cathedral
from which we had superb views of the
plains of Lombardy and the snowy Alps.
To morrow we say farewell to sunny Italy.
							KIM.
	BARONESS HIRSCH has given $250,000 to
endow a home for Hebrew consumptives
in England.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
UTAH.

STILL shall New England classic hills be dear,
Where’er the children of the pilgrims go; 
Her sacred name our hearts shall still revere
Her story fill us with responsive glow.
Where smooth Potomac’s placid waters flow, 
Virginia’s stately homes in beauty rise—
Beloved for him who taught the world to know
His country's freedom is the patriot's prize,
Not dearly bought, though won with costliest
	sacrifice.

The downy peaches waft their fruity breath
From sun-kissed orchards of the Delaware;
And flowers that know no winter’s icy death,
Garland the plains of Florida the fair;
’Neath California’s skies of beauty rare,
Her yellow poppies nod and roses twine;
Sweet scent of orange-blooms perfumes the air,
And amber clusters load the fragrant vine—
Each sphere of chalice filled with sweet, trans-
	lucent wine.

Fair was the heritage our father’s bought,
Stretching o’er hill and vale, from sea to sea;
Each new-born state some separate charm has
	brought,
Some grace distinctive, as its birth-right fee.
From Maine’s cold pine-woods, where the winds
	blow free,
And whistling, rivet tyrant winter’s chains.
The sunny rice-fields, where the bird and bee,
In slumberous tones, chant summer’s sweet re-
	frains.
Love’s loyal faith, sincere, each part the best
	maintains.

Let others boast their prairies spreading wide
Whose lonesome plains the far horizon meet;
Still let them paint with fond exultant pride,
Their miles of corn-fields and their waving wheat;
Or, let them tell of vast woods’ dim retreat,
With vaulted arches thick with evergreen,
Where vines run wild and mosses’ velvet feet
Climb o’er each tangled bough—a living screen
Whose solemn gloom of shade no sun-ray falls be-
	tween.

How would our eyes grow dim o’er those broad
	plains,
With home-sick longing for our russet hills!
Nor could we bear the depths where twilight 
	reigns,
Whose deep recesses cloistered silence fills.
Dearer to us the cliff whose grandeur thrills,
With its mute eloquence, the heart’s unrest;
Dearer the water-falls and leaping rills,
And canyons wild of Utah’s caverned breast,
Though other scenes be fair, we love our Utah
	best.

As when through leagues of blistering, shimmer,
	ing sand,
Its toilsome way the caravan has made,
Sees o’er the waste the cool, green palm-tree
	stand,
And rapturous, hails their bliss of restful shade—
And as the ship by tempest long delayed,
Beaten by storm-waves, shattered by the blast,
Gains the sure harbor, and, with anchor weighed,
Rests on the peaceful billow, safe at last,
Happy in perils shunned and dangers overpast—

So with their faces toward the golden west,
Through weary leagues, toil on the pilgrim train ; 
Storm-worn, but dauntless in their weary quest,
Cross the broad river and the treeless plain,
Till Utah’s rock-built height their footsteps gain.
Circled by cliffs, like some great eagle’s nest,
Lies a lone valley—nature’s wild domain :
'Here," says their chieftain, “here may Zion
	rest;
Here shall God’s temple stand, and here His
	Saints be blest."

[Column 2]
As on New England’s cold, surf-beaten shore,
The earlier pilgrims built devotion’s shrine;
’Mid the loud anthem of the ocean’s roar,
To great Jehovah tuned their swelling line,
And saw His love o’er stern, hard duty shine—
So knelt these toil-worn  souls—faith’s struggling
	band—
Asking in earnest prayer, the power divine
To shield them in the wild, waste, barren land.
And guide them in their toil up heaven’s direct-
	ing hand.

The world is richer by such pioneers;
Faith, through their toil, its golden fruitage sees,
And life’s hard front in softer light appears;
That the slow-moving world may walk at ease,
Truth builds her highways broad, by such as
	these.
They found a desert—made a garden fair,
Where luscious fruits bend low the clustering
	trees,
And flowers of every tint perfume the air,
Where towns and cities broad and equal blessing
	share.
I’ve heard a story of the days of old,
Told by Ute warriors when the pale-face  came—
How long ago a spirit, overbold,
With mighty Manitou made rival claim
With silver, gold and gems of every name,
He built proud turrets on the Wasatch range;
But the Great Spirit from his mount of flame.
With thunder-bolts of fire and lightnings strange,
Made walls and tower and throne to shapeless
	ruins change.
I know not if the tale be strictly true;
But yet our Utah mountains strangely show
Bright lines of yellow gold, and still we view
Masses of silver, heaped and strewn as though
From some vast silver temple’s overthrow—
Marbles and precious ore that might bedeck
The halls of monarchs with resplendent glow—
Jasper and syenite and jeweled speck—
As though a world of mines had burst in plen-
	teous wreck.

Fair land of marvels! Where Aladdin’s lamp
And Ali Baba’s treasure-cave are ours!
Where giant force has left his Titan stamp,
And genial nature gemmed her vales with
	flowers!
Thy gushing spring shall send refreshing
	showers,
Till all thy waste lands ring with harvest glee.
The weary thousands seek the restful bowers
Where health springs, jocund, from thy island
	sea,
Thy glad streams turn the wheels of strong-
	armed industry.
In thy young days thy horoscope we draw,
And stars auspicious tell of fates benign.
Symbol of order, industry and law,
The murmurous hive is emblem fitly thine.
Still ’round that hive thy sego lilies twine—
Manna for man and nectar cup for bee;
Born in the mountain where the sunbeams shine.
Its peerless bloom is type of liberty;
Be loyal like thy bees, and, like thy lilies, free.

Where from the heights the mountain torrents
	spring,
The eagle builds aloft her craggy nest,
Meets the new morning, poised on steady wing.
And soars through ether from the topmost
	crest—
Thy eagle’s flight be thine, oh, Utah blest
In that, from earliest days, thy children stand
With equal power to seek the highest, best,
And noblest; knowing thy impartial hand
Fetters no God-given soul in all thy favored land.

Onward and upward! of the sister states
Youngest; but gifted with a priceless dower!
Fortune waits, knocking at thy opening gates;
Press to the front in thine auspicious hour!

[Column 3]
Give to the world the best work in thy power:
Reach to each noble cause a helping hand;
And should dark clouds above the nation lower,
Rise in thy might, for God and native land,
Wave wide thy stars and stripes, and with them
	conquering stand.
						ORIELLE CURTIS.


A ROSEBUD.
		  _____
Tenderly, lovingly.
		Lay it away,
		Where the light of day,
		Sheds no kindly ray,
		On its bright array,
		Now faded and gray,
		Lay it away,
Carefully, silently.
Thoughtfully, hopefully,
Lay it to rest,
		For its tender breast,
		By a thorn was pressed, 
		That pierced the crest, .
		Of its petal’d nest
		Lay it to rest,
Peacefully, quietly.
Tearfully, feelingly,
		Over it weep; 
		For a soul doth sleep,
		in its grave so deep,
		Where no eye can peep,
		And no hand can reap, 
		Over it weep,
Mournfully, soothingly.
Watchfully, willingly,
		Guard it with care; 
		’Twas a life so fair, 
		Yielding fragrance rare,
		That this world so bare,
		Will forever wear.
		Guard it with care,
Faithfully, sacredly.
					Hyacinth
Year’s Eve, ’96.


AFTER ALL.
AETER the day has sung its song of gladness.
	After the night has told its tale of woe,
After the bird's sweet notes have turned to sad-
ness,
After the breeze has breathed its music low,
		Think of me, pray for me,
		And of thee, only thee,
		My thought shall be,
		After all, after all.
After the flow'rs refuse to yield their fragrance,
	After the dew no more its mantles spread,
After the sun has ceased to shed its radiance,
	After the joys of springtime long have fled,
		Leave me not, pain o'er fraught
		For I've sought, only sought.
		Thy sincere thought,
		After all, after all.
After the bloom of youth's forever banished,
	After the hours have lengthened into years,
After my hopes like melting snows have vanished,
	After my heart has dried its well of tears,
		Still trusting, and hoping,
		Still waiting, and loving,
		To thee I cling,
		After all, after all.
			HYACINTH.
New Year's Day, '97.


LADY HENRY SOMERSET has sent a
London lady doctor and two trained nurses
to Bulgaria to help to care for the Armenian 
refugees, who are in great need.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.
	
	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 ots. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd-class matter.
SALT LAKR CITY, JANUARY I, 1897.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. I


[Column 1]
HOME INDUSTRIES AND PRODUC-
TIONS.

	THE one main subject in which the peo-
ple of Utah (and we speak advisedly when
we say the women of Utah) should be
specially interested at the present time is
home industries, and foremost among these
is sericulture. We are fully aware that
there are some women who have seemingly
strained every nerve to raise cocoons, and
have become more or less if not quite dis-
couraged because there seemed no remuner-
ation, but there is now a good prospect for
the future in this direction. There has
been a commission of five persons appointed
by the Governor to look after the matter,
and they are reliable women who will do
the very utmost that can be done to further
the silk interest in Utah; but it remains
with the people to do their share and to
furnish the material. Enough has been
accomplished here in the raising of silk to
prove that it might with some fostering and
encouragement become a profitable industry.
	It is of little use to sit down and com-
plain of hard times and lack of employment
when the state abounds in resources that
might by diligent perseverance and united
effort be developed into paying products.
Looking over the ground, silk really seems
the easiest of all the industries to manage.
The eggs being procured, the cocoons can be
raised wherever food for the worms
can be obtained.
	Mulberry trees consequently leaves are
very abundant in many parts of the state
and especially so in Salt Lake City and
County, and it is not too soon even now for
those who wish to engage in sericulture to
commence planning for it.
	It is not at all unlikely that there will an
experiment station established here in the
near future, and even if not, silk raised and
reeled at home, if the work is first class can
always find a market. The reels for this
purpose are small and light and the work
is very simple and easy to learn. It does
not require the time nor incur the expense
that dress-making and millinery and many
other things do. It is said by those who
have had some experience with the silk
worms that this employment is quite fasci-
nating. At any rate the women of Utah
have always believed silk raising might be
made a permanent business success here,
because the climate and all other conditions
are particularly favorable.
	In places where there are not mulberry

[Column 2]
trees the people should procure the cuttings
early and set them out in rows by the
ditches, and the young, tender leaves are
said to be best and make a finer fabric than
when the leaves are old and tough. The
silk worms are more fond of crisp, tender
leaves naturally, and the leaves are more
easily gathered from the young shrubs than
from the trees.
	We shall be very glad to have correspon-
dence sent upon this subject for publication,
from those who have had experience and
who can give valuable information in this
class of work.

	Another very important subject we as a
people should consider and try to under-
stand is the Kindergarten; and to the
mind of the writer the training received by
means of this simple but wonderful method
of instruction will be conducive to all home
industries, as well as to those gentle and
attractive qualities that adorn domestic life
and embellish the home. We hear constant
ly all depends upon the mothers and the
home, and that is the mother’s province,
whether the children are well trained to be-
come useful members of society and good
citizens; if so much rests upon mothers,
then they too should have a little help in 
the way of suggestion, and the kindergar-
ten gives just this needed assistance- Moth-
ers in general are overworked, their strength
is more than absorbed by the little ones, a 
kindergarten teacher takes the little ones
for a short time and the mother not only
has the great relief of feeling the children
are cared for, but knows they are being
taught to think, observe and act properly.
	If parents could only realize how advan-
tageous the kindergarten training is to the
child, it would not be long before it would
be introduced into all the public schools.
But the growth of sentiment on this sub-
ject seems very slow, and very little has
really been done to reach the entire people.
If mothers would visit these schools and
see and hear the children, they would be-
come interested and enter into the spirit of
the teaching; they never can by standing
afar off and denouncing it. Some very
strenuous exertions have been and are being
made by a few to start these schools, and a
membership to the Association of fifty
cents a year from individual members to
assist in the work; but the people are slow
to respond; and yet what is as much conse-
quence as the children’s proper training?
Habits of industry are gained in this way,
and these are essential to a good life. The
old saying that Satan finds mischief for idle
hands, is true; and in a community where
children abound as they do throughout
these valleys, it is important that measures
be taken to give the children upon the
streets, the benefit of such training as will
keep them from vice, and help them to earn
a livelihood as soon as they are old enough
to get employment; nothing will help them
so much in this regard as kindergarten
training, and it is not tiresome, but on the
contrary a kind of pleasure, so that the child
does not get weary, nor dislike the school-
room.

	ON Monday, January 11, the Utah Legis-
lature will meet in this City and something
new under the sun, Solomon to the con-
trary notwithstanding—Utah will have
the first women Senator in the United
States, although Wyoming and Colorado
have had woman Legislators in the House,

[Column 3]
women Judges and women on juries.
it is a distinction of which Dr. Martha
Hughes Cannon may justly be proud. In
the House will be Mrs. Eurithe La Barthe,
of Salt Lake County and Mrs. Sarah A.
Anderson, of Weber County, all active and
comparatively young women, therefore it is
only reasonable to expect that some good
suggestions will be made and effectual work
in such interests as pertain to women and
the family especially.
 	In Millard Co. we are informed a wo-
man, Mrs. Delilah K. Olsen, was elected
Co. Recorder by the Democratic party, and
Mrs. Ellen Jakeman Treasurer in Utah Co.:
in Box Elder Co. Miss Fannie Graehl was
elected Co. Recorder by the Republican
party. We are not aware of any other wo-
men having been elected, but trust that
there are gthers in the state.
	Women have done excellent work in the
Legislature of Colorado, and also in Wyom-
ing and the Superintendant of Public
nstruction in Wyoming is certainly one of
the most brilliant women we have ever had
the pleasure of meeting, Miss Estelle Reel.
Although we do not expect the millennium
to come because women vote, yet we do
hope and anticipate that some change for
the better will ensue, now that women are
on an equal platform with men in legal
matters in the State.


EDITORIAL NOTES
_________________________________
	THE secretaries of Stake organizations of
the Relief Society are hereby officially noti-
fied to send reports for the year r896—not
later than Feb. 1897—to Mrs. E B. Wells
Constitution Building, Salt Lake City
Utah.
	WE are very sorry to be obliged to state
that the Book of Poems which we had
hoped would be issued Christmas has been
unavoidably delayed but will, unless
something unforeseen transpires be ready
in February of this year. We shall be very
glad to receive orders for the book from any
who would like to have a copy, as not
nearly enough subscriptions have been
taken to defray the expense of publish-
ing. The title of the book will be ‘ Mus-
ings and Memories,” Poems by Emmeline
B. Wells, and will contain steel engraving
of the author ; price of cloth binding $1.25
—leather or Art binding (new style) $2.00.
	
	ALL agents of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
and all Presidents of Relief Society in all
the several branches throughout the Stakes
of Zion, and others who are interested in
the woman’s paper are most respectfully,
but urgently requested to use their best en-
deavors to further the interests of the EX-
PONENT by striving to increase its circula-
tion, and also to use their influence in
helping to collect back subscriptions,
remembering that the EXPONENT is really
the official organ of the Relief Society, and
contains a complete record of all the General
Conferences of that important organization,
and is the means of communication to all
Stakes of Zion and through them to each
other, besides doing much efficient work
for women in various other ways.


HOLIDAY WEDDINGS.
___________________________________
THERE'S bliss beyond all that the minstrel has
	told, 
When two that are linked in one heavenly tie,


With hearts never changing and brow never
		cold, 
   Love on thro' all ills and love on till they die.”
   It is always pleasant and gratifying to
have young people marry happily, and in
the three weddings noticed here all the
circumstances are favorable and everything
indicates “solid happiness,” if one may
judge by appearances and acquaintance
with the young people. In our belief we
have not only a desire for union here, but
for the eternal marriage in which we most
firmly believe, and undoubtingiy hope that
all the young people in whose marriages we
are so deeply interested may be so happy,
that they may continue throughout the
eternal ages to come.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


A QUIET HOME WEDDING.
	“ Love’s History as Life’s is ended not
	By marriage.”
	"Marriage is the life-long miracle,
	The self-begetting wonder, daily fresh."
	At the residence of Hon. and Mrs. I. M.
Sears, Thorndyke, East Waterloo, on Tues-
day, December 29, 1896 at 5.45 p. m.,
Miss Isabel Sears and Mr. Charles William
F. Buchholz were united in marriage.
	On account of Mr. and Mrs. Sears being
detained in Chicago because of the illness
of their daughter Emma, the affair was
quiet and only a few guests, near relatives
were present.
	The parlors were tastefully decorated
with holly and red carnations, symbols of
holiday time, and it is needless to add the
bride was charming in old rose silk trimmed
with chiffon and lace, and carried white
roses. Her uncle, Gen. John Q. Cannon,
gave her away, and her, cousin Bishop
Orson F. Whitney solemnized the marriage,
which made the bride and bridegroom hus-
band and wife. The ceremony was
very impressive and the eloquent words of
the Bishop were like a sweet Psalm set to
music.
	Congratulations and pleasant conversa-
tion followed and at seven p. m. dinner
was announced. The table decorations
were lovely, besides the holly and carna-
tions there were vases of magnificent pink
and white roses, that added enjoyment to
the feast. While the party were still at
table a telegram was received from the
parents of the bride in Chicago, of love,
blessing and congratulations, with regrets
that they could not be present; reference to the
time proved that the dispatch had been written
at almost the exact moment that the cere-
mony of marriage was taking place.
	The party at dinner besides the bride and
bridegroom were Bishop Whitney, Mrs.
E.B. Wells, Gen. John Q. Cannon and
wife, Mr. and Mrs Fred Horne and
daughter (cousins of the bridegroom,) Miss
Sears, the bride’s sister, and two of her
brothers, Eugene and Brenton.
	The evening was very agreeably spent in
conversation and music, vocal and instru-
mental.
‘‘Love; what a volume in a word, an ocean in a
	tear,
A seventh heaven in a glance, a whirlwind in a
	sigh,
The lightning in a touch, a millenium in a moment
What concentrated joy or woe in blest or
	blighted love.”
Mr. Buchholz has been some years in
Utah, though formerly from Wisconsin;
he is at present connected with the Com-
mercial National Bank in this city,
and is well and favorably known in
business and in society here.
	The bride is a Utah girl and is the
grand-daughter on the maternal side of the
late Bishop Newel K. Whitney who was
one of the founders of Utah. Miss Sears is
herself particularly well known not only in
society in Salt Lake, but as her father’s
assistant in the Chamber of Commerce
when he was Secretary of that board, and
also in the office of the EXPONENT where
she has been employed as manager for the
last five years, whenever the editor has
been absent, and assisting more or less at
all times in the different departments,
of editorial and other work on the paper.
Miss Sears was also Secretary of the Wo-
man’s Republican League of the Territory
for some time.
	The EXPONENT extends most sincere con-
gratulations, and wishes to the newly
married couple, long life and a happy and
prosperous voyage on the fair sea of matri-
mony.
“The joys of marriage are the heaven on earth,
Life’s paradise, great princess, the souls quiet
Sinews of concord, earthly immortality,
Eternity of pleasures.',


HOLIDAY WEDDING BELLS.
			“The general voice
	Sounds him, for courtesy, behavior, language,
	And ev’ry fair demeanor, an example;
	Titles of honor add not to his wealth, 
	Who is himself an honor to his title.”

	ON Wednesday, December 30, 1896 at
high noon in the Salt Lake Temple, Lieut.
Briant Harris Wells and Miss Mary Jane
Jennings were united in marriage by
Bishop John R. Winder. An informal
wedding reception was held at the residence
of the bride’s parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Thomas W. Jennings from two to five p.
m. The happy bride and bridegroom re-
ceived congratulations under a bower of
vines and the handsome parlors were pro-
fusely and beautifully decorated with holly,
red carnations and the trailing smilax.
	The bridegroom in his uniform and the
bride in a tight fitting blue cloth traveling
dress of the latest style, made a striking
picture as they stood to receive their guests,
who were mostly relatives of the two
families.
	Delicious refreshments were daintily
served in an adjoining room, and the jubi-
lance of the happy occasion was only lessen-
ed by the thought of the immediate de-
parture of the young people from home.
The young Lieut, is stationed with his
regiment at Fort Yates, North Dakota,
whither Lieut, and Mrs. Wells departed
on their wedding journey the same evening.
		“Across the threshold led
  And every tear kissed off as soon as shed
  His house she enters there to be a light,
  Shining within when all without is night;
  A guardian angel o’er his life presiding,
  Doubling his pleasures and his cares dividing.
	Lieut. Wells is the youngest son of Gen.
D. H. and Mrs. Martha G. Wells, and is
the brother of Governor Heber M. Wells.
He graduated as a cadet at West Point
three years ago and is well worthy of the
title and honors he bears and we are proud
to say a credit to the service.


Mrs. Wells is the daughter of Thomas
W. Jennings, eldest son of the late Ex.
Mayor Jennings of this city and is also on
the maternal side grand-daughter of the
late Capt. W. H. Hooper, one of the first
delegates to Congress from this Territory.
Lieut. and Mrs. Wells are both very
attractive and popular, and the marriage is
looked upon by all parties as a brilliant
union, and although for the present duty
calls them hence, yet in the near future it
is hoped they may return to make their
permanent home in this city, where they
have a large circle of relatives and friends
who will be proud and happy to welcome
them back to Zion.
	The EXPONENT adds its best wishes for
their future happiness, and may their life
be as serene and prosperous as their nearest
and dearest friends could desire.

	“In peace Love tunes the shepherd’s reed,
	In war he mounts the warrior’s steed;
	In halls in gay attire is seen,
	In hamlets dances on the green.
	Love rules the court, the camp, the grove
	And man below, and saints above;
	For love is heaven and heaven is love !”


ANOTHER HOLIDAY WEDDING.

[--]ve is or ought to be our greatest bliss,
[-]nce every other joy how dear soever,
Gives way for that and we leave all for love.”
	Miss Edna Lambert and Mr. Eugene
M. Cannon of this city were united in mar-
riage at noon on Friday, January 1, 1897,
in the Salt Lake Temple, President Angus
M. Cannon of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion
and father of the bridegroom, performing
the solemn ceremony.
	The bride is the daughter of George C.
Lambert Esq. of the Lambert Paper Co.,
and a very sweet and amiable young girl;
the young husband has just recently re-
turned from filling honorably a mission of
three years to the Society Islands Their
courtship, if we may be excused the term,
dates back to their childhood, and judging
from appearances they have always been in
love with each other.
“But they were young; Oh! what without our
	youth,
Would love be?—what would youth be without
	love?
Youth lends it joy, and sweetness, vigor, truth
Heart, soul, and all that seems as from above.”
	A wedding reception was given at the
bride’s parents in the evening (New Year’s
night) a most auspicious time, and surely
everything indicates a long and happy life
for this very young couple, who have start-
ed out so well and under such favorable
conditions.
	The guests were very numerous though
nearly all relatives, and congratulations
were even more numerous than the
assembled guests, for many were sent by
those who could not be present in person.
Delicious refreshments were served on
tete a tete tables and there was joy and
merriment and nothing at all to mar the
happiness of the party.
	Again the EXPONENT extends heartfelt
congratulations and hopes and believes
these devoted young people who have start-
ed out to begin life together will be worthy
all the blessings mortals are permitted to
enjoy in this world.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.
	Dec. 39, 1896, the U. W. P. C. held its
regular meeting at the office of the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT. The meeting was
called to order at 7.30 p. m., President
Ruth M. Fox presiding. After prayer was
offered by Dr. Shipp, the secretary called
the roll, each member responding with a
sentiment from Mrs. Hemans. Minutes of
last meeting were then read and approved.
A motion was made by Mrs. E. B. Wells
and carried by vote of club that Mrs. Emily
S. Richards be made a member. The pro-
gramme for the next meeting was presented
by Mrs. L. D. Alder and the program com-
mittee dismissed. Mrs. E. B. Wells, Mrs.
Ella W. Hyde and Mrs. P. C. Young were
appointed by the President as the members
of the next program committee. Under
the head of new business, Pres. Fox spoke
in regard to the necessity of the club paying
for light, heat and room for their meetings.
No motion was made but the matter was
left for the consideration of the club. A
letter from Mrs. Julia McDonald to the
U. W. P. C. was read by the Sec’y. The
evening’s program was as follows: Paper
“ Pilgrim Women of New England,” Miss
Monroe. Poem “ Year of Jubilee,” Mrs.
Fox. Paper “John Ruskin,” Mrs. Wil-
cox. Dr. Pratt was excused from giving
her paper on account of sickness.
	On motion made and carried that the
critic’s report be given next meeting and
that the critic be allowed unlimited scope
in her criticisms. Adjournment was now
in order. Benediction Mrs. Margaret A.
Caine.
			ORIELLE CURTIS, Sec’y.


UNREQUITED.
METHOUGHT my love was perfect sweetness,
   Milk of human kindness running o’er,
With all the virtues in completeness,
   Held too in ample bounteous store.
Alas, 'tis but a sad delusion,—
   A fleeting phantom,—fate must deplore,
Apart, alone in still seclusion,
   I mourn for love that returns no more.
Yet one ray in my vale of sorrow,
   From hope's bright star cheers the path I tread
Guides upward towards a blissful morrow,
   Where eternal life restores the dead.
                                                            L. M. H.


[Column 1]
R. S. REPORTS.

SNOWFLAKE STAKE.
Editor Woman's Exponent;
	The semi-annual Relief Society Confer-
ence of the Snowflake Stake was held at
Taylor, Nov. 28, ’96.
	On account of sickness the attendance
was small, but that did not in the least pre-
vent the flow of the Holy Spirit. The day
was cold and clear and those who came
from a distance were delighted to find the
meeting house warm and comfortable.
	Only four statistical and financial reports
had been sent in, but the few presidents
and counselors that were present gave very
encouraging verbal reports.
	The teachings were such as to awaken a
new interest in the Relief Society work and
inspire all with the belief that the presiding
sisters were faithful and sincere in their en-
deavors to perform the great work required
of them.

[Column 2]
	The training of the children was the
most important topic dwelt upon by the
sisters. The restoration of the Gospel, the
gifts of the Gospel and other subjects were
touched upon in a very pleasing manner.
	President Jesse N. Smith complimented
the sisters on their good work and said
they treasured up their faith somewhat like
we put money in a bank and can draw from
it as occasion demands. Was thankful for
the willingness of the sisters and for their
knowledge of the efficacy of prayer, said
there could be no doubt but that the Sa-
vior’s choicest moments were spent with
Mary, Mary Magdalen and others. Con-
ference adjourned for six months.
	DELLA FISH, Stake Secretary.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Quarterly Conference of
the Salt Lake Stake Relief Society, held in
the 14th ward Assembly Hall, Dec. 19,
1896, President M. Isabella Horne presid-
ing. Present on the stand were Counselors
Annie T. Hyde and Clara C. Cannon, Sis-
ters B. W. Smith, E. S. Taylor, M. W.
Wilcox and L. D. Alder. Singing “Lord
we come before thee now;”prayer by M.
W. Wilcox; singing “We thank Thee O,
God for a Prophet.” Resignation of Mar-
garet A. Caine read and accepted and Mar-
garet Y. Taylor sustained as her successor.
Roll called, treasurer’s report read and
minutes of last Conference read and
approved.
	President Horne welcomed the sisters
and rejoiced to see them, spoke on the
calamities abroad, said the Lord was merci-
ful to His children here in the chambers of
the mountains, refered to the Semi-Centen-
nial, compared the different circumstances
that had taken place in fifty years, urged
upon the several branches of the Relief
Society to look after the poor, thought the
Presidents should be mothers to their
wards; we were a progressive people and
should not stand still when so much good
could be accomplished. We cannot serve
“God and Mammon.” We must not neg-
lect our duties or we will come under con-
demnation, made other timely and instruct-
ive remarks.
	Sister Francis spoke in behalf of the Wo-
man’s Co-operative store, said she desired
to make the store a success, was willing to
make any article that anyone would want
and as reasonable; hoped the sisters would
patronize it, would like to raise five hundred
dollars just now and hoped the sisters
would take some shares, said she had enjoy-
ed the good spirit that was here, and prayed
God to bless all. President Horne spoke
again in behalf of the store and said she
felt the day would come when such a store
would be needed among us.
	Sister E. S. Taylor felt as earnest as ever
in the Relief Society work. The progress
of the Relief Society had been great and to
ourselves it had done good, we were better
Latter-day Saints when we attended to our
duties, and our hearts turned with a desire
to look after the poor. Refered to the
benefit in reading in our society meetings
the church works, spoke on the Stake
officers being invited to visit the various
wards and stir the associations up by their
presence and good counsel, we all needed
the Holy Spirit to aid us, prayed for God
to bless each and every one.
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon said it was a
feast for her to listen to the sisters speak
that had been so valiant in the cause, was

[Column 3]
pleased to hear the store spoken of, and the
new management. Prayed for strength to
be firm and faithful in our lives to the end.
Conference adjourned till 2 o’clock. Sing-
ing “Do what is right;” dismissed by Sis-
ter Mary S. Clark.
	Afternoon session convened at 2 o’clock,
singing “O, say what is truth;” prayer
by Sister L. D. Alder; singing “Where
the voice of friendship’s heard.”
	On the stand were Counselor Joseph E.
Taylor of the Stake Presidency and Elder
George Goddard, Bishop G. H. Taylor and
Counselor T. E. Taylor. President Horne
gave a few words of welcome to the breth-
ren, Sister B. W. Smith made a few re-
marks and Georgianna F. Young spoke in
behalf of the Kindergarten and its benefit
to the young, hoped the sisters would come
to their aid by taking a membership.
	Sister S. M. Kimball said our object in
coming together was to do each other good,
gave her support to the kindergarten work,
hoped our spiritual nature would be fed.
	Counselor A. T. Hyde thought the Re-
lief Society work the best of all our institu-
tions as its requirements were to look after
the poor, had attended recently the Sanpete
Relief Society conference, and their reports
were fine, they had made seventy-five yards
of cloth in Spring City for the poor besides
other things quilts, stockings etc., felt the
young women as well as the older sisters
should take an interest in Relief Society
work.
	Sister L. D. Alder spoke of her love and
interest in the society work and made other
interesting remarks.
	Sister Julia C. Howe spoke of the great
blessing the Relief Society had been to her,
felt to give her support to the Kindergarten
work.
	Sister Stevenson bore a strong testimony
to the Gospel and her love for the Relief
Society.
	Elder Joseph E. Taylor said he was heart
and soul in the Relief Society work, also
gave his hearty support to the Kinder-
garten, spoke on the evils that were creep-
ing into our midst and made an earnest
appeal to the mothers in looking after their
children.
	Elder George Goddard spoke on the
change in our fast day, and the good that
would result from that change. Sang
“Let us gather up the sunbeams.”
	President Horne made a few closing re-
marks and Conference was adjourned for
three months. Singing Doxology; bene-
diction by Bishop G. H. Taylor.
	MARGARET Y. TAYLOR, Sec.
WEBER STAKE.
	THE Weber Stake Relief Society met in
Conference December 10, 1896, in the
Third Ecclesiastical ward meeting house,
President Jane S. Richards presiding.
	Prayer was offered by Bishop Ferrin.
President Jane S. Richards was pleased to
have the privilege of meeting so many of
her brethren and sisters in Conference.
She said she had great confidence in the
priesthood, felt the sisters were doing all
they could to help the sick and needy in
their different associations, that she never
had any trouble in getting the sisters to
turn out and do their part. She often com-
pared the first organization of the Relief
Society with those of today, and thought
they were growing spiritually as well as in
numbers. Said we certainly are better
prepared to help the poor than we were in
years gone by, was desirous of hearing


[Column 1]
from the many sisters who were present, as
most of them had come a long distance.
She said that to look at the stand, one
would almost think that they were holding
a priesthood meeting, as so many of the
bishops and brethren were present.
	The next speaker was Counselor Hattie
C. Brown, who said she felt we were indeed
a blessed people to have the privilege of
meeting together so often, and felt en-
couraged to see the interest taken in the
Relief Society work. She believed all felt
it a pleasure as well as a duty to comfort
and bless those who are in need, and was
very pleased to see our old friend, Sister
Emily S. Richards with us this morning.
She said she loved to meet with the sisters,
and felt sure they would have a good meet-
ing.
	Sister Jeanette Bingham said she was
thankful that she could bear the same testi-
mony today that she had always borne, and
that she loved Relief Society work. The
Lord had blessed her in giving her strength
sufficient to attend to her labors.
	Sister Emily S. Richards, of Salt Lake
City, next addressed the meeting. She
said it always gave her pleasure to meet
with her sisters in Ogden, where she first
began her Relief Society work, also her
work with the young ladies. It carried her
back to the time when Sister Eliza R.
Snow used to come and visit the sisters and
bless them so abundantly with words of
great wisdom. She told Bishop McQuarrie
this morning how disappointed she felt
when she found that Sister Zina Young
was not on the train. He said, “never
mind Sister Emily, you are in the house of
your friends.” She could not tell how
much she had appreciated Bishop Mc-
Quarrie’s encouraging words during her
labors with the young women of Ogden.
She was glad that a number of our young
women had joined the Relief Society, they
would be greatly benefited by mingling
with their older sisters. If we are to be
judged by thought, word and deed how
very careful we should be especially in
these times, was pleased to see that so many
bishops could take time to meet with the
sisters in Conference, and appreciate the
good work they did in visiting the widows
and fatherless, felt it a pity that more of the
young sisters could not meet with the sis-
ters of the Relief Society, as they would be
greatly benefited by so doing.
	Brother D. H. Peery next addressed the
sisters in his usual pleasing manner, giving
them excellent counsel. He spoke en-
couragingly of the labors of the sisters, and
said that he loved to attend their meetings.
Said he had been greatly impressed by the
list of delinquent tax payers, said the peo-
ple had thought that it was their enemies
that would bring them into bondage, but
that they had brought it upon themselves
by living beyond their means and running in
debt. That he could remember when it
took very little to satisfy the people in this
territory, but it was not so now. He said
he was not much of a speaker, and could
not say beautiful things like the sisters, but
he tried to speak the truth in his abrupt
way, and all the sisters knew that D. H.
Peery was no hypocrite, he told the truth
whether people liked it or not. He enjoy-
ed these Conferences, and thanked Sister
Richards for inviting him to attend.
	Counselor Charles F. Middleton also
[-]poke in praise of the work of the sisters.
[-]aid he had known Sister Emily Richards

[Column 2]
for many years and was proud of her work
among the sisters. Said we all know and
appreciate Brother Peery’s good qualities,
for they are many. He has been a great
benefactor to Weber county.
	Sister Lightner said, although she could
not hear she enjoyed coming to the meet-
ings, for the Spirit of the Lord was here.
Our Relief Society was organized by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, who was inspired
from on high. She was glad that she had
had the privilege of listening to the
Prophet Joseph Smith. She desired to live
the life of a faithful Latter-day Saint.
	President Jane S. Richards said there
would be a lunch served in the building, of
which all were invited to partake.
	After prayer, the meeting adjourned till
two o'clock.
	The afternoon session opened with sing-
ing and prayer. Roll called and eleven
presidents present.
	Sister Sarah Hunt, Adaline Belnap and
Mary Ann Wallace gave very encouraging
reports of their associations.
	Sister Mary McQuarrie said that she had
joined the Relief Society because the
younger sisters had been invited to do so,
and had been greatly blessed in meeting
with the sisters. She said we cannot al-
ways tell where our duty lies, but by ask-
ing the Lord to point out those who are in
distress, either mentally or physically, we
will be led to the right people. “I am
sure if more of our young people would
come to these meetings they would enjoy
them.”
	Brother F. S. Richards addressed the sis-
ters for a short time. He said he was
pleased to be invited to meet with his
Ogden friends, and it gave him pleasure to
think of the time when he worked in the
missionary field with his brethren in Weber
county, some of whom are present and
some have passed away. He spoke words
of encouragment to the sisters and said the
Lord would bless them in their labors and
show them where to go when they were in
doubt as to who were needing help. Said
he could bear testimony that his mother’s
health had improved since she had been
connected with Relief Society work, and he
prayed that the sisters might continue in
their labors of love.
	The authorities of the association were
presented and sustained, and after singing,
and benediction by Bishop Dye, Conference
was adjourned for three monthis. 
	SEC. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


IN MEMORIAM.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	RESOLUTIONS adopted by the officers and mem-
bers of the Kanosh Relief Society in memory of
their beloved President, Sister Adelia A. Kimball,
who departed this life after a lingering illness,
October 19, 1896, being 68 years, 7 months and 16
days old. She was the daughter of Catharine and
Eber Wilcox, and was born in Shandgo county,
New York. She was baptized into the Church
of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints when eight
years old.
	She first married William Hatton who was kill-
ed by Indians at Fillmore, which left her a widow
with three small children; she was afterwards
married to President Heber C. Kimball and lived
in his family until her daughter Mary Eliza was
married to Abraham Kimball with whom she re-
sided until her death. She has endured many
trials and persecutions for the Gospel’s sake but
was never heard to murmur or complain. She
was of a kind and gentle disposition, was full of
charity and always had a word of comfort for the
sick and afflicted. She was never known to en-
dorse a slander or encourage gossip.


January 1, 1875 she was chosen President of
the Relief Society of Kanosh ward and for nearly
twenty-two years has labored faithfully in that
capacity; she was well qualified for that position
being a woman who had a great reverence for the
Priesthood, and her presence brought with it
an influence of peace.
	She was conscious to the last and called her
children and grandchildren around her bed and
bore a faithful testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel, urging them to be true and steadfast in the
work of God, then passed peacefully away. The
cause of her demise was catarrh of the head and
stomach and she suffered greatly. The funeral
was under the direction of the members of the
Relief Society and was beautifully conducted.
Be it therefore,
	RESOLVED, That as our Heavenly Father has
taken our beloved President and sister to her
heavenly home, that we desire to emulate her
noble example and that we herewith express our
heartfelt sympathy for her children and grand-
children. Be it further
	RESOLVED That these resolutions be placed on
the records of the society and a copy sent to the
WOMAN’S EXPONENT for publication.
	ELEANOR RAPPLEYE, First Conunselor.
	ALICE J. RAPPLEYE, Secretary.


AN OFFERING OF LOVE.

	IN loving remembrance of the first anniversary
of the death of Sister Ann Roberts Griffiths,
who departed this life Dec. 26, 1895 at Union,
Salt Lake Co., Utah.
	We feel that her dear name should be recorded
within the sacred folds of the WOMAN’S EXPON-
ENT, which she so dearly loved to read. As a
life sketch was printed in the Deseret News at the
time of her death, we will only mention a few of
the noble traits of her character.
	Sister Griffith embraced the truth in her native
land, the only one in the family who obeyed the
Gospel. She made many sacrifices for the Gos-
pel’s sake, one of which was in tearing herself
away from a loving mother who fainted when
her daughter bade her good bye to cast her lot
with the people ot God. Sister Griffith always
wept when she related this sad parting.
	She was the mother of fifteen children, six of
whom are now living. She was a widow 35
years. She held the marriage covenant with her
husband sacred. Her devoted sons were always
her dearest companions. After her family had
grown up, she devoted her life to the care of the
sick night and day without money and without
price, sacrificing her own comfort continually for
the good of others; a more kind and loving hand
never soothed the aching head than the hand of
Sister Griffith. One of the most beautiful traits
of her character was her love for little children; 
they would flock around her and she wonld al-
ways have time to speak to them in her kind lov-
ing way. Many were the tears shed by the little
ones when she was called to leave them. Her
love was great for her sisters in the Relief Soci-
ety, she held the office of Counselor to Sister
Elizabeth Richards, they were united in love.
She dearly loved and cherished the counsels of
our beloved Sister Eliza R. Snow. When at the
Temple a year before her death, Sister Zina D.
Young placed her arms arouud her and blessed
her; she testified it was as an angel’s blessing,
more than gold to her. The writer feels to ex-
claim,
		“Little deeds of kindness
			Little words of love,
		Makes our earth an Eden,
			Like the Heaven above.”
	Sister Griffith loved the Gospel, was acquainted
with the Prophet Joseph Smith, and testified of
the great power that he posessed; she saw the
dead bodies of the Prophet and his brother
Hyrum, after they were martyred for the truth,
and often spoke of the universal sadness which
prevailed at that time. She was driven from her
home in Nauvoo, and shared in the hardships and
persecutions of the Saints at that time. She en-
dured to the end and has gone to meet her loved
ones, who are many.
	Oh, what could be more valuable
		Than treasures laid in Heaven
	Where moth and rust cannot corrupt
		And thieves no place are given.
	The precious gold, the diamonds rare,
		On earth their homage claiming
	Yet with eternal endless life
		Compared, they’re not worth naming.


What are these treasures, rich and rare
	Which gold can never purchase?
It is the acts of mortal life
	The fruits of earnest workers.
To cool the fevered, aching brow,
	To cheer the heart of sorrow;
Unselfish in the smallest act
	Nor think not of tomorrow.
To live a life of sacrifice
	That’s full of love and sweetness;
Be firm to every covenant made
	Seek charity and meekness.
Sweet Ann these treasures rich and rare,
	To you by God are given
A crown of glory awaits you there
	Eternal life in Heaven.
					M. A. BALL.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	MINUTES of meeting of W. S. A. held in
the WOMAN’S EXPONENT office Oct. 19.
Song “Wyoming;” prayer Mrs. E. Price;
song “Help the working women;” minutes
read and accepted and roll called. Presi-
dent Grosebeck read a letter from Mrs.
Fewson Smith in which she sent in her
resignation as chairman of the executive
committee of the association, on which
action was defered for one month. Mrs.
McFarlane read from the new State laws of
Utah a chapter on “what constitutes a
voter,” and the penalties of disregarding it.
	Moved that Mrs. Groesbeck and Mrs.
McFarlane form a committee to draft
“Resolutions of Respect” to Mrs. Fewson
Smith for past services. Adjourned to
meet one month from that day at the same
place and time. Prayer by Mrs. Oswald.
		CASSIE C. NEWMAN, Sec.

	Minutes of S. L. W. S. held in the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT office, Nov. 17, 1896.
Song “The reason why;” prayer by Mrs.
McFarlane; song “Columbia’s Daugh-
ters;” minutes of last meeting read and ac-
cepted. Resolutions of respect to Mrs.
Fewson Smith read, and approved.
	Mrs. Wells, State President, made some
suggestions in reference to the Association
and the matter of continuing or uniting
with the State Association, which subject
was discussed and finally a motion was
made and carried that the members unite
with the State Association and discontinue
holding separate meetings.
	Mrs. Silver spoke as to the
efficient work done by the president of the
association. Mrs. McFarlane and Mrs.
Grames also spoke of, and thanked the
president for her devotion to the work.
	Treasurer’s report read by the Secretary
and accepted. Mrs. Silver moved that the
funds on hand belonging to the County
Association be given to Mrs. Wells for the
use of the office in holding meetings.
	RESOLVED, That the county Association
present the pictures of Mrs. Stanton and
Miss Anthony to the State Association.
Decided that the literature of the Associa-
tion be left at the EXPONENT office for the
use of the members. Prayer by Mrs.
Silver.
		CASSIE C. NEWMAN, Sec.


THE Hawaiian Government has granted
a full pardon and the restoration of her
civil rights to ex-Queen Liliuokalani. The
pardon is based upon the fact that during
her parole she has faithfully kept the terms
of her partial freedom.


A CURIOUS PROPHECY.

	“IN August 1857 the Bavarian Allgemeine
Zeitung printed a remarkable prophecy,
which had been made by an old hermit
many years before.
	In it the rise of Napoleon III. was clear-
ly outlined, as were also the Austro-Prus-
sian and the Franco-Prussian wars and the
commune of Paris. He told how the death
of Pope Pius would occure in 1876 or 1877,
and how it would be followed by a Turko-
Russian war, being but slightly wrong in
either prediction.
	He said that Germany would have three
emperors in one year before the end of the
century which was verified to the letter.
He missed in one, at least, in the number
of United States presidents that were to die
by assassination, which was remarkably
close to say the least.
	He said that when the twentieth century
opened Manhattan Island and the whole of
New York city would be submerged in
the waters of the Hudson, East river and
the bay; Cuba will break in two, and the
west half and the city of Havanna find a
watery resting place.
	Florida and Lower California are to break
loose from the main land and carry their
load of human freight to the bottom of the
sea.
	The twenty-fifth is to be the last of
the United States presidents, and Ireland is
to be a kingdom and England a Republic by
the end of the century.
	The United States are to be divided and
San Francisco, Salt Lake City New Orleans,
St. Louis, Washington and Boston are to be
made capitals. There should be some con-
solation for the Mormons in this, if not for
the other parts of our great union.
	To return to England. The end of the
century will not find either Italy or France
on the maps, and Berlin will have been
totally destroyed by an earthquake.”
							Ex.


THE WOMAN’S CONGRESS IN BER-
LIN.

	I CANNOT help saying it was a success,
and in the interest of the woman question I
am compelled to proclaim it. Do not think
that we attribute the success entirely to the
ability of our committee; it is chiefly the
spirit of the time—the great progress which
the woman question has made in Germany
during the last few years—which made a
success of the Congress. What we would
not have dared to hope a few years ago
happened—the Town Council granted us
the privilege of holding our meeting in the
most beautiful Town Hall (Rathhaussaal)
and thousands of women and men—women
of course in the majority—congregated to
the assemblies, hundreds being obliged to
turn away for want of room, in spite of the
enormous size of the hall. On two large
tables, reporters, ladies and gentlemen
worked day by day unceasingly and pro-
vided thousands of newspapers all over the
world with reports from the Congress,
which were eagerly read by women of all
classes and of all nations.
	During the seven day’s Congress nearly all
subjects connected with the woman question
were touched, and not a single one lacked
interest. The foreign delegates were
agreeably surprised at the coolness and
cleverness with which the German women
delivered their speeches from the platform; to


but there is no denying the fact that
agreeably as they were surprised, ours was
the good fortune to be enchanted by the
magnificent and splendid speeches deliver-
ed by the foreign, especially by the English
and American delegates.
	Let me mention first of all Mrs. Ormis-
ton Chant, who gave us. in her musical
voice, a most interesting account of the
temperance question; Mrs. Belva Lock-
wood, the well known attorney, who spoke
in an exceedingly interesting manner on
the political rights of women in the United
States; Mrs. Kirkbride of Philadelphia,
Miss French of Washington, Baroness
Gripenberg of Finland, Dr. Maria Popelin
of Brussels.
	It would be encroaching upon your space
if I were to give all names who contributed
towards its success; we are thankful to
each of them.
			ELIZA ICHENHAUSER.
Berlin.
		—English Woman's Review


NOTES AND NEWS.

	DR. CAROLINE B. WINSLOW left a will
bequeathing her body to Howard University
to be dissected by a woman medical student
for the purpose of advancing her knowledge
of anatomy.
	A FRAGMENT of a letter written in Char-
lotte Bronte’s own hand, shows her char-
acter as well as anything she ever wrote.
It is the ending of a letter to Miss Nussey,
and these are the lines: “Submission,
courage- exertion when practicable—these
seem to be the weapons with which we
must fight life’s long battle Yours faith-
fully, C. Bronte”			—Ex.
	“THE sad death of Mrs. Sarah Bristol
Cooper and her daughter Harriet has
brought a shock of grief to the hearts of a
multitude of friends, not only in San Fran-
cisco, but all over the country.
	As our readers already know through the
daily papers, the daughter, who was
afflicted with suicidal mania, turned on the
gas during her mother’s sleep, and mother
and daughter were found dead in their beds”


R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.

