VOL. 25. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 1, 1897 No. 21


CONTENTS:

	Egypt. Ladies Semi-Monthly Meeting—Zina
H. Bull Sec. Conference Of W. H. P. Society—
Julia S. Woolley, Sec. The Denver Victory.
Letter From Bunkerville—H. M. Earl. Mary
Stuart—Louide. The Jubilee Prize Commission.

	POETRY:—Beautiful Sp ing—L. M. H. Build
Well—Adelaide Comstock.

	EDITORIAL:—Party In The Lion House. The
Old Journey. Pamphlet on Sericulture. Wed-
ding Bells. A Friend Of Long Ago. Editorial
Notes. General Relief Society Conference.


BEAUTIFUL SPRING.

BEAUTIFUL Spring is now weaving,
    Fresh garlands of budding flowers,
And gay birds are giving concerts,
    In their newly-robed green bowers.
Her smile has banished cold winter,
    Unvailed the long slumbering earth,
Twined wreaths with her fairy fingers,
    From darkness awakened new birth.

Her voice has called into action.
    Mighty forces, work to resume;
That never may pause nor slacken,
    While she’s plying her busy loom.
All things with new life are swelling,
    From high mountains to purling brooks,
The arbutus vines are trailing,
    Their sweet blossoms in shady nooks.
Fountains flash forth—joy-bells ringing!
    Fresh carpets of green and gold spread,—
Life e’en in deserts upspringing,
    Wherever her footsteps have tread.
O, beautiful vernal dawning,
    We now hail thee with glad delight!
And rejoice in thy returning
    Deck’d in beautiful robes of light.
                                             L. M. H.
S. L. C., May 1, 1897.


EGYPT.

READ BEFORE  THE REAPER’S CLUB BY
MISS JULIA A DRUCE.
	Egypt is a country in the northeast of
Africa, extending from the Mediterranean
Sea to the first cataract of the Nile, that of
Assouan,—(the ancient Syene.)—Its
length from this cataract to the northern-
most point of the Delta, is about 500 miles;
and its breadth from the shores of the Red
Sea to the Libyan desert, may be estimated
at 250 miles. This land was inhabited at a
very early period of the world’s existence;
and in ancient times it contained a great
number of cities, and an incredible multi-
tude of people. Egypt may be described
as “the bed of the Nile;” the cultivated
territory only extending to the limits of the
inundation. In the island of Rhoda, situ-
ated on the opposite side of the river from
Cairo, is the Nilometer, a column which in-
dicates the height of the water during an
inundation of the Nile. This pillar is
made of marble and is very slender. The
building here formerly had a dome, bearing

[Column 2]
a C[--]ic inscription dated 847 A. D. At
present this Nilometer consists of a square
well, in which is placed a graduated pillar
of marble. There is another Nilometer at
Elephantine, close to Assouan, which con-
sists of a staircase between two walls, des-
cending to the Nile. One of these walls
has engraved on it a series of lines at proper
intervals, which marked the different eleva-
tions of the river during the time of the
Caesars. This is the well that Strabo
speaks of, and is much older than the
column at Rhoda. The most ancient of
these measures appears to have been erect-
ed at Memphis.
	The climate of Egpyt is not very healthy.
The sun is extremely hot, and rains fall
but seldom. Thunder and lightning are
both unfrequent. At intervals during the
spring, for about fifty days, Egypt is liable
to the terrible wind of the desert, which
from its intense heat and dryness, is almost
unendurable. The irritating effects caused
by innumerable particles of sand, which
accompany this wind, are also very disa-
greeable. Fortunately it seldom continues
more than three days at a time.
	Egypt is separated from Nubia by a low
hilly region, composed of granite rocks.
The same crystalline rocks extend up the
shore of the Red Sea, to near the opening of
the Gulf of Suez. The scenery in this district
is wild and rude. The course of the Nile
is often interrupted by cliffs and broken
masses of granite, forming magnificent
cataracts. The granite region terminates
at Assouan. From the rocks here, were
obtained the materials for the colossal and
monolithic monuments of Egypt. The
valley of Upper Egypt is bounded by two
ranges of hills running northward—the
Arabian on the right, and the Libyan on
the left of the river; both, alike, composed
of cretaceous strata, the predominant rock
being sandstone. This is a durable and
easily worked stone; it was therefore used
extensively in the erection of ancient tem-
ples. The city of Thebes was built of it.
This sandstone extends from the granitic
rocks forming the first cataract at Assouan,
for about 85 miles to Esne, where it is
covered by a limestone strata; and this
continues on both sides of the valley for
about 130 miles, when it is again covered
by a limestone deposit which forms the
other portions, extending northward of
both ranges of hills. The scenery of the
limestone districts is tame and monot-
onous; frequent tablelands occur, on one of
which are built the three pyramids of
Gizeh, the material employed being the
predominant limestone. This land is very
deficient in timber trees; the Pharaohs ob-
tained cedar from Lebanon, and ebony
from Ethiopia. The rocks of Egypt afford-
ed the stones used in its edifices and sculp-
tures,—granite, syenite and basalt from
Assouan,—porphyry from the quarries of
Gebel Doshan, which were opened in the
reign of the Emperor Claudius; sandstone,
limestone etc. Alabaster, which was found
at Tel-el-amarna, has been used from the
earliest periods to the present day. Emer-
alds are produced by the mines of Gebel

[Column 3]
Zabara. Salt, natron, and since 1850, sul-
phur are among the other mineral produc-
tions of Egypt. Natron is a native car-
bonate of soda, and was used by the people
in their embalming process. We know
that Egypt occupied a very early place in
the world’s civilization. Thence Greece
derived her art, literature and science. She
handed them down to imperial Rome,
whose mission it was to diffuse them over
western Europe. The Great Pyramid was
an antiquity in the days when many of the
famous nations of old were in their youth.
The pyramids were rising on the bank of
the Nile at an epoch coeval with that of
Abraham and Isaac. Egypt was a power-
ful and opulent empire in the days of
Joseph; and it was in the Egyptian schools
that Moses received his education.
	One of the most important points in the
history of this land, is the chronological;
involving, as it does, the date of the earli-
est historical epoch of man. In the time of
Ptolemy Philadelphus, during the 3rd cen-
tury B. C., Manetho, high priest of
Heliopolis, drew up at the request of this
king, a history, in which he divided the
space of time from Menes—the first king
of Egypt—up to the reconquest of that
country by Darius II., into thirty dynas-
ties. The work of Manetho has perished,
but the chronological epitomes remain, in
the works of several ancient writers. The
Holy Bible, Herodotus, Diodorus, Josephus,
Eratosthenes and other historians also con-
tain sources of chronological information.
Herodotus saw, and talked with Manetho;
so that probably he obtained many histori-
cal items from him. This Manetho had
been instructed in Grecian learning, which
was a valuable aid to him. Learned writ-
ers have been trying for many years to re-
concile the conflicting statements of vari-
ous ancient historians, in regard to dates.
The national custom in ancient Egypt, was
to reckon any important event from, or in
the reign of that king in whose time it oc-
curred, without using the controlling date
of any cycle. This fact rendered portions
of their early history rather obscure, and
also made it difficult for historians to obtain
perfectly correct information.
	The chronology of Bishop Usher,—which
is from the Hebrew—placed 4004 B. C., as
the date of the Creation, and 2348 B. C.,
for the Deluge; and these dates seem to
have obtained the sanction of theological
writers. The celebrated hieratic papyrus
at Turin, of the age of the 19th dynasty,
which contained a system of chronology
arranged on a principle of cyclic and regnal
years, has unfortunately suffered so much
mutilation, that it is impossible to recon-
struct it satisfactorily. It is therefore bet-
ter to depend upon the account given by
Manetho as to the dynastic succession;—
taking that history as waves of time,—
especially in regard, to the more remote
periods. There is not sufficient monu-
mental or other data, for a sure conclusion
about many of the early rulers. The docu-
ment at Turin, and the list furnished by
Manetho, do not agree as to the number of
kings who ruled in Egypt from the close of


the 6th to the 11th dynasty. It
is therefore supposed that these accounts
represent the succession of rulers in Mem-
phis and Thebes, respectively, during that
period. Mythically, Egypt claims to have
been in existence at a much earlier date
than we have any knowledge of its history.
There were in this land during ancient
times, four principal dynasties; that of
Thebes, Thin, Memphis and Tanis. It was
in the country of Tanis that the Israelites
dwelt. The first period in Egyptian his-
tory begins with the establishment of a
monarchy by Menes, or Misraim, the son of
Cham, or Ham, in the year of the world
1816,—or 2188 B. C.,—and ends with the
destruction of that monarchy by Cambyses,
King of Persia, in the year 525, B. C. The
second period is intermixed with Persian
and Grecian history, and extends to the
death of Alexander the great, which
occured in Babylon, 323 B. C. The third
period is that in which a new monarchy
was formed in Egypt by the Lagida, or
Ptolemies, in 323 B. C, and ended with
the death of Cleopatra, the last queen of
Egypt, which happened in 30 B. C. The
Lagida were descendants of Ptolemy Lagus,
who was supposed to be a natural son of
Philip of Macedon. The Kings of this
line succeeded each other till Cleopatra, a
sister of the last Ptolemy, ascended the
throne when Egypt became a Roman pro-
vince, and continued so until the reign of
Omar, the second Caliph of the successors
of Mahomet, who drove out the Romans,
after it had been in their hands nearly
seven hundred years.
	In 1171 A. D., the Caliph Saladin intro-
duced the Mamelukes into Egypt and
when the power of the Caliphs declined, El
Moez, a slave belonging to that race, set
up the empire of the Mamelukes about
1250, A. D. At the commencement of the
16th century,about 1517 A.D.,Selim,a Turk-
ish emperor, conquered Egypt and for many
years the country was distracted by civil
wars. The French, under Napoleon Bona-
part, invaded that land in 1798, and they
in turn were driven from it by the Turks
and British in 1801, and the country re-
stored to the Ottoman Porte.
	Historians are unanimously agreed that
Menes, or Misraim, was the first king of
Egypt. He was the son of Cham, the
second son of Noah, and when the family
of the latter, after an extravagant attempt
at building the tower of Babel dispersed
into different countries, Cham, or Ham, re-
tired to Africa. He had four children,
Chus, or Cush, in the Scriptures,— Mis-
raim, Phut and Canaan. Cush settled in
Ethiopia; Misraim in Egypt, which is
sometimes called in the Bible after his
name, and by that of Cham, his father.
The foot-steps of its old name, Misraim, re-
main to this day among the Arabians, who
call it Mesre. Phut took possession of that
part of Africa which lies westward of Egypt,
and Canaan of the country which after-
wards bore his name. Ancient history
says, that “the Canaanites are certainly the
same people who are generally called
Phoenicians by the Greeks, and of which
foreign name no reason can be given, any
more than for the oblivion of the true one.”
			  (Continued.)


WOMAN S  EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th Ward Assembly

[Column 2]
Hall, April 17, 1897, President M. I.
Horne presiding. Singing “Lord we
come before Thee now;” prayer by Sister
M. E. Kimball; singing “O say what is
truth.” The minutes of the previous meet-
ing were read and approved. President
Horne felt very happy in meeting with the
sisters today, more so if possible, for the
reason she had not been here for some
time. Felt these meetings were more
educational than any others the sisters
could attend; thought that President
Young was inspired when he organized
these Associations. Said that those who
feared God met often and spoke one to
another, and a book of remembrance was
kept and these testimonies were all entered.
Referred to some remarks of President
Young wherein he said that if the Saints
would be humble and more united, it
would not be long before the rest of the
Book of Mormon would be given us.
Spoke of the goodness of God to us; those
who gave to the poor loaned to the Lord.
President Horne felt this Hall had been
kept from desecration and from evil spirits;
for we could all testify to the good times
we have had in this building. Prayed we
might always be faithful, and that the good
spirit might continue to be with us. Sis-
ter Mary Silver felt glad she was a Latter-
day Saint and bore her testimony. Sister
Morris bore her testimony and asked for
the faith and prayers of the sisters.
	A sister from Brigham City felt pleased
to be here in this meeting today, had look-
ed forward to it, for she felt she would re-
ceive a blessing; was very much interested
in the work and said when she received
her EXPONENT the first thing she read
was the minutes of these meetings; bore a
strong testimony.
	Sister Wright made some remarks Felt
very thankful for her many blessings and
more especially that she could go into the
Temple and do work for her kindred. Re-
ferred to the time when she first joined the
Church, and said her desire was to do
good. Singing “O give me back my pro-
phet dear.”
	Counselor E. Webb felt thankful to hear
the sisters appreciated the Gospel in the
way they did. Said we could go to our
Heavenly Father with any and everything
and ask Him to help and comfort us, and
were sure of an answer. He was always
near us to help when He was sought
earnestly. Spoke of Temple work and
urged the sisters who lived near to came to
the Temple and do for their dead all that
was possible. Prayed the spirit of testi-
mony might be poured out upon the sisters.
	Sister Louie Stevenson made some re-
marks, and spoke of her son who is on a
mission, and how he was received by the
outsiders. Sister Margaret O. Brown re-
ferred to the last April conference, felt it
was the best conference we had ever had,
the brethren had all been inspired who
spoke to us. God always answered her
prayers; whenever she wanted to know any-
thing she asked Him and He always en-
lightened her.
	A sister in the congregation spoke of her
Temple work and what a grand work she
considered it was. Exhorted the sisters to
be kind to one another, and not to judge
but to help and bless one another. Prayed
God to bless us all.
	Sister Catherine Forsythe bore her testi-
mony and spoke on prayer. Sister Mar-
garet Thompson bore her testimony, and

[Column 3]
said she felt it was good to be here. Sing- 
ing “The trials of the present day.”
	Sister Jane James felt she could not keep 
away from these meetings if she tried.
Spoke of her children and the anxiety she
felt for them; felt to bless Sister Horne for
the teachings she had given to her. Sister
Betsy Brower bore her testimony.
	Sister Elizabeth Brown felt she must 
bear her testimony she felt so overjoyed
for the Gospel, also that we could ask the
Lord for blessings and be sure that they
would be given us; made some beautiful
remarks.
	Sister Davis bore her testimony, said she
felt very grateful for the Gospel, and spoke
of when she first joined the Mormons; felt 
very anxious over her friends who were in 
the East and who do not believe as she 
does
	Sister Sarah Phelps said her constant
prayer and desire was that the honest in
heart might be gathered out from the judg-
ments that were coming upon them. Urged
the sisters to be faithful and diligent, and
do all they could. Prayed God to bless us.
	Sister Julia C. Howe wished to testify to
the goodness of God, and said she had been
greatly blessed and comforted by being
here today. Spoke of her Temple work
and how she had been blessed in it; hoped
the sisters would be more diligent and
faithful in serving the Lord. Said we
must encourage one another, that our ex-
ample meant much. Spoke of a party she
attended when President Young was alive,
also referred to his remarks. Prayed God
to bless Sister Horne for her words of com-
fort and wisdom.
	Sister Harriet Badger bore her testi-
mony and made some beautiful remarks.
Sister Margaret Taylor said she was invited
to attend the matinee this afternoon, and
was in a quandary whether she would go
there or attend this meeting, she felt she
had chosen wisely by coming here for she
had been greatly blest. Prayed God to
bless us all.
	Counselor E. Stevenson urged the sisters
to come to the Temple at least one day a
week; felt our time was short. Referred
to the remarks of President Woodruff at
Brigham City when he said the Angel of
Destruction had gone forth; she said we
could testify to this when we pick up the
daily papers. Prayed we might be more
diligent and faithful.
	President Horne made a few closing re-
marks, and meeting adjourned for two
weeks. Singing “Weep, weep not for
me Zion.” Benediction by Sister Annie
T. Hyde.
			ZINA H. BULL, Sec.


HALF RATE EAST VIA UNION
PACIFIC.
	For the accommodation of a large num-
ber of teachers and their friends, the Union 
Pacific as usual will make rate of one fare
for the round trip to Missouri River, Chicago
and St. Louis. Tickets on sale June 5th,
6th and 7th, good until Sep. 5th. Call at
Union Pacific ticket office, No. 201 Main
Street for any additional information.


At the “Ladies Club” in Paris, France,
the voting is done in secret session. The
club is open for one month to the aspirant
for membership. If her conduct is ap-
proved she is then voted in; otherwise she
is refused admittance.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BUILD WELL
“TO WOMEN THE BUILDERS OF THE TEMPLE OF 
				  LIFE.”
	     BY ADELAIDE COMSTOCK.

BUILD well the temple, ye mothers of men;
For know ye are builders for glory or shame.
Know ye are building for weakness or might,
Know ye are building for darkness or [-]ight,
God has ordained you his workers to be,
Weighed in his bala[-]ce your products must be;
Judged by his justice the work ye have wrought,
Paid by his measure the meed ye have sought.
Lay your foundation in wisdom and love,
And beautiful angels will smile from above;
Building for heaven, ye build well for earth;
Mankind’s greatest need is a holier birth.
Oh, we have builded in sorrow and shame,
Pity us heaven ! we were not to blame;
Groping in darkness we knew not the way,
Light is now breaki[-]g, oh, welcome the day,
Dawn of an era by prophets foretold, 
Sung of by bards, spoke by sages of old,
When angelic hosts shall from heaven proclaim,

Peace upon earth and good will to all men.
Woman, through thee this grand era must come;
Or prophets, bards, sages as well might be 
	dumb;
Can figs grow of thistles? or grapes on the
	thorn?
Or from feverish passion can angels be born ?
Oh, haste thee to cast the symbols of sin,
And say in love’s power—‘ I will be thou clean.”
Call heaven to aid thee and guide thee aright,
And go forth in thy womanhood armed to the
	fight.
Aye, to fight 'gainst false passion and conquer by
	love,
And man lifted higher thy labor shall prove;
For nations shall bless thee for that thou hast
	done,
And glory shall crown thee more bright than the
	sun.
For patriot souls shall then rise in their might,
And build the grand temple of Justice and Right,
Which could not be built until woman should
	come,
To aid in the work from foundation to dome.
And then, in your building, build wisely and well;
How ye have builded the future will tell:
For know the Grand Master will mea[-]ure with
	care
And try every corner with plummet and square.
Then if thou hast built for ambition or fame,
Oh, woe to thee, builder! confusion a d shame
Shall follow thy building; but honored shall be,
The builders who build for eternity.
	San Burnaventura, California.

	Presented by Mrs. Carrie Kester and read by
Mrs. Armeda S. Young in the Woman’s Physiologi-
cal Association conference, held in the 14th Ward
Assembly Hall, April 7, 1897.


[Column 1]
CONFERENCE OF W. H. P. SOCIETY.

	MINUTES of the Conference of the Wo-
man’s Hygienic Physiological Society, held
in the 14th Ward assembly rooms March
7, 1897. Singing “How firm a found-
ation;” prayer by Lucy B. Young; sing-
ing “To Thee O, God we do approach.”
Sister Armeda S. Young, President of Salt
Lake association, spoke of the necessity of
a mother understanding the needs of the
body in order to bring about a physical
redemption of the race, and the relation
dress had to this improved condition; she
concluded by reading a poem—“Build
Well.”
	Minutes of the last Conference read and

[Column 2]
accepted. Sister Sorensen gave a report of
her work in Idaho where she had been
laboring the last month; she said she had
been very successful and a great deal of the
credit was due to the brethren who had
assisted her by every means in their power.
	The following program was carried out:
Lecture on Social Purity, by Sister Lydia
Brown of Pleasant Grove. She said the
underlying course of soical impurity was
the ignorance of the parents, their not un-
derstanding the great influence heredity
has in the molding of character.
	Sister Rose Hayes treated the subject of
Mother and Child. She said the true mis-
sion of woman is to bear and rear children,
and that the love that exists between
mother and child was one of the strongest
of human ties; that a woman should under-
stand child nature and so from the first
give the child proper training, for it is
easier to mold than to reform.
	Sister Cluff, of Skull valley was called up-
on to address the Conference. She was
thankful for the knowledge she possessed
of the work, for it had been a great bless-
ing to her, as she believed it would be to
any woman who would take it up.
	Sister Lucy Heppler, of Richfield, Sevier
Co., bore a strong testimony to the truth of
the work.
	Mrs. Dorathy Gunn spoke of the proper
care we should take of our bodies and the
value of nature’s remedies, Air, Water and
Sunshine.
	Several of the brethren were called upon
to speak. They expressed themselves as
being pleased with the work and encour-
aged the sisters to continue in it.
	Sister Ollie Hildahl recited “O My
Father.” Adjourned until 2 o’clock by
singing “We thank Thee O God for a
prophet.” Prayer by John Hafen.
	AFTERNOON SESSION. Began by sing-
ing “Guide us O Thou Great Jehovah;”
prayer by Brother George Goddard; sing-
ing “O My Father;” outline of the ward
missionary work read by Sister Julia S.
Woolley.
	Child Training, was to have been given
by Sister Keeler, of Provo, but as she was
unavoidably absent her husband, Bishop
Keeler read her paper
	Dr. H. A. Anderson treated the subject
of Preparation for Marriage, in a very in-
teresting manner. Sister Olive Anderson
spoke on the subject of Hygienic Cooking,
said great care should be taken in selecting
and preparing food as to its nutritive value;
for the object of partaking of food is to sus-
tain life, that grains were of the greatest
value if properly cooked.
	Sister Ollie Hildahl’s subject was Dress.
She said we should dress artistically, but
not sacrifice health for fashion.
	Elder Joseph E. Taylor spoke of the
necessity of an improvement in our way of
living, that God has given us the Word of
Wisdom as a guide. Singing Doxology;
prayer by Bishop Elias Morris.
	JULIA S. WOOLLEY Ass’t. Secretary.


THE DENVER VICTORY.

	THE Rocky Mountain News says: 
	The women of Denver have silenced those
who have asserted that the possession of e[-]u[-]l
suffrage by women is not a powerful weapon in
behalf of good government. The ladies of the
Civic Federa ion gallantly raised the banner
ong ago, and were largely instrumental in fram-
ng the Taxpayers’ ticket. T[-]ey were aided dur-
ng the canvas and on yesterday by thousands of


women [-]ho could not be swerved from their con-
victions by sophistry or the pleadings of partisans.
The News believes that the action of the women
of Denver will win praise for their sex from every
part of the country, and that they will never re-
lax their dete mination to make the only large
city in which women vote the best-governed city
in the world.
	Denver is not the only large city in
which women vote. They vote in every
city in England and Scotland, in every
city of Kansas and in almost every city of
Canada; and their votes are generally on
the side of good government. But the ob-
ject-lesson in Denver is conspicuous and on
a large scale.
	Mrs. Helen G. Ecob writes:
	The Taxpayers' ticket which won an ove -
[-]helming victory in he municipal election of
Denver on April 6, is the ticket nominated by
the convention called by the Woman’s Civic
Federation. This organization co-operated with
the Taxpayers in an eflort to put competent
and trustworthy men in nomination, the Civic
Fe[-]eration adopting the name and emblem of
the Taxpayers. The triumph of this effort for
good government shows what may be accom-
plished when right-minded women put their
shoulders to the political wheel, and Denver re-
joices in her enfranchised dau hters.
								—Ex.


LETTER FROM BUNKERVILLE, NEV.

Editor Woman's Exponent:
	I THOUGHT I would address a few lines
to you from this far away place. We are
about sixty miles from St. George but be-
long to that Stake of Zion. We have a
good Sunday school here and in good run-
ning order, also a Relief Society and
Primary Association. We have Mutual
Improvement meetings with both young
men and young ladies; the young people as
well as the old take a great interest in at-
tending to their duties. There is no out-
side influence here to contend with, all are
our own people.
	I am a subscriber for the WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT and I think it is a very nice, use-
ful paper, and I peruse it with care and in-
terest. When I received the Exponent
which contained the selection from the
“Times and Seasons” by President Joseph
Smith, although I have never seen that
volume of the “Times and Seasons,” but I
sent the poem in full that I took from the
Deseret News that was printed May 14,
1876. I want to keep up my subscription
for the paper and will send the money just
as soon as I can get it.
	Your sister and co-laborer in the Gospel
H. M. EARL.
	April 4, 1897.


DR. HENRY M. HOWE, the distinguished
son of a distinguished mother, Mrs. Julia
Ward Howe, has been elected professor of
metallurgy at Columbia University. Dr.
Howe will give a course of lectures in the
School of Mines, beginning on April 19,
treating of the properties of steel, crucible
steel, cementation and the Harvey process.
Dr. Howe received the Bessemer medal
from the British Iron and Steel Institute
for his work on the “Metallurgy of Steel,”
and he is the ex-president of the American
Institute of Mining Engineers.
	THE White Ribbon (New Zealand) states
that two Maori ladies, Mrs. Hirani and
Mrs. Taranaki, were members of a deputa-
tion which recently waited on the premier
of New Zealand in regard to native land
disputes.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor,
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, May 1, 1897.


[Column 1]
PARTY IN THE LION HOUSE.

	ON Thursday afternoon April 29, Sister
Margaret P. Young gave a most enjoyable
party in the interesting parlor of the Lion
House. Most of the guests present were
Temple workers; of others there were Presi-
dent George Q. Cannon and President
Angus M. Cannon, Elder A. M. Musser
and a few sisters who were either relatives
or intimate friends among which number
the writer was delighted to be included, as
the company was very select and the house
itself is exceedingly historic, perhaps the
most so of any residence in the State.
	The afternoon was passed in social con-
versation mostly reminiscent of the house,
its illustrious owner and its belongings, of
incidents connected with it and the people
who were familiar and frequent guests
there in the days of President Brigham
Young.
	There were present of his wives besides
the hostess Sister Margaret Young, Sisters
Zina D. H. Young, Emily P. Young,
Naamah T. Young, Lucy B. Young and
Harriet B. Young, and quite a number of his
children which made the house seem much
more natural and homelike than it other-
wise would. The fact of President Young
having died in that house being spoken of,
the guests were told they might visit the
room in which his spirit took its departure
from his mortal body; a large number of
the company availed themselves of this
opportunity; Sister Eliza R. Snow’s death
in the room adjoining the parlor was also
spoken of with tender feeling, and these,
with other more cheerful subjects, formed
interesting matter to dwell upon.
	After refreshments were served and all
had partaken in a social way, one or two
recitations were given and the little grand-
son of Sister Margaret Young played some
difficult musical compositions on the violin,
several very fine musical selections were
given on the piano by Spencer Clawson
Jun, Mrs. Lizzie Thomas Edwards sang
in the most delightful way in her exquisite
clear voice the beautiful song by Millard
entitled “Waiting,” and later on by
request, gave “ O, My Father;” and
then there was a little old fashioned
dancing more for the sake of “Auld Lang
Syne” than any particular enjoyment in
the dancing itself. Then a recitation
“Flossie’s Marriage” by Miss Mabel
Snow was given in a very graceful and
forcible manner; afterwards, President
Lorenzo Snow a dressed the brethren and

[Column 2]
sisters alluding particularly to the work in
the Temple and urging the benefits to the
living and the dead. President Angus M.
Cannon also spoke briefly, calling up
remembrances of other days, and relating
some particular incidents that had tran-
spired in that house, which were very
pleasing to recall. Sister Zina D. H.
Young spoke in a very feeling manner for
a few minutes and then broke out in the
gift of tongues, Sister Zina Y. Card gave
the interpretation which was very comfort-
ing.
	As it was getting late the company joined
in singing and Bishop John R. Winder
pronounced the benediction and the com-
pany dispersed, feeling the time had been
delightfully passed and congratulating Sis-
ter Margaret Young upon the success of
the gathering and wishing her many more
years of usefulness upon the earth.
	Sister Margaret P. Young’s birthday
anniversary was on the 19th of April, but
she postponed the party to a more conven-
ent date. Sister Margaret was seventy-
four years of age April 19, 1897—and she
looks remarkably well for one who has
lived so many years and passed through so
much. She was born in Ashton town-
ship, Delaware County, Penn. April 19,
1823, her parents were Quakers, Robert
and Hannah Pierce. They received the
Gospel and were baptized in 1840 and went
up to Nauvoo, Illinois in 1841; in Nauvoo
they lived down near to Brigham Young’s
residence. Sister Margaret was married to
President Young in the Nauvoo Temple
early in 1846 and came out in the winter
time in February 1846, traveling with her
father’s family in the main body of the
Saints. Brother Robert Pierce was one of
the pioneers of 1847, leaving Winter
Quarters in May of that year; Sister Mar-
garet came to the valley with her father
and mother, who also brought with them
Sister Eliza R. Snow the gifted poet and
author. Sister Margaret Young has lived
permanently in the Lion House ever since
it was built, and is still likely to remain
there for many years to come, for she has
the appearance of being very long lived.
	We can scarcely express the feeling one
has when going over such historic places,
but on that day we recalled to mind the
first social party we attended there after
President Young’s death when Gen. Wells
in responding to an invitation to speak was
almost overcome with emotion, and repeat-
ed in closing his speech the beautiful words
of Moore,
“I feel like one who treads alone some banquet
	hall deserted,
Whose lights are fled, whose garlands dead, and
	all but me departed.”


[Column 1]
THE OLD JOURNEY.

[From the Missouri river to the Great
Salt Lake Valley]
	ALFRED LAMBOURNE, the artist and
author, is bringing out a new publication
which will be a rare production of facts,
incidents and descriptions of the pioneer
journey across the plains, and will be
graphically illustrated as well as artistically
written. The author’s style is always,
graceful and when he has so fruitful and
genial a subject to write upon he cannot
fail to please and interest the public. His
book as far as we have seen the proofs
abounds in stirring passages and is in lan-
guage and sentiment intensely poetical.

[Column 2]
	The book coming at just the right time,
the Jubilee celebration, will attract more
attention and we ardently wish Mr. Lam-
bourne might realize in a greater degree
than book men usually do, pecuniary bene
fit from the sale of the work of his pen and
brain. But we are well aware that it is
with him as with geniuses generally a
labor of heart and soul interwoven with the
love of his subject.
	Mr. Lambourne gives such vivid descrip-
tions of scenery and of storms, sunrises,
sunsets, moonlight, and of dancing that we
can easily fancy the real picture, and he al-
so gives with pathetic feeling the sad side
of the picturesque journey in deaths and
burials by the wayside, the night guard
and all from an artistic standpoint, which
cannot fail to gratify the most fastidious
lover of the romantic and of a high class of
literature.
	The book will contain eighteen photo-
gravure plates of scenes that are natural
and finely executed. Beginning with
Nebraska landscape with a prairie fire, Sun-
set on the Platte River, The Unbroken
Prairie, Court House Rock. Chimney Rock,
Scotts Bluffs. Left by the Roadside,
Abandoned Camp, Among the Black Hills,
Laramie Peak, Sweetwater River, The
Devil’s Gate, The Night Guard, A Buffalo
Herd, Independence Rock, Ford of the
Green River, Moonlight in Echo Cañon,
First glimpse of the Valley; all these pic-
tures will be not only dear to the pioneers
and others who crossed the plains in those
early days, but will bring to view the
many scenes and exploits of the past and
help to rivet them in the minds of this and
succeeding generations. These reminiscen-
ces are well worth preserving in the delight-
ful style in which this note-worthy book is
sure to be prepared. Mr. Lambourne not
only puts his heart into his work but he al-
so gets the best material to set it off.
	The paper itself will be such as an artist
would be likely to use in our day, antique,
decle-edge, and the type new, clear and odd,
in fact no pains will be spared to commend
it to public notice. It will be issued from the
press of George Q. Cannon and Sons Co.,
and will be The First Art Book In Utah of
home production, which is likely to prove
a high recommendation. We hope and
trust the Semi Centennial Commission will
purchase a sufficient number of copies of
Mr. Lambourne’s book “The Old Jour-
ney” to present one to each of the living
pioneers of 1847. One cannot even look
over the pictures without being forcibly
reminded of the original, and many tender
recollections of the past spring to mind that
had been buried or for the time forgotten.
	Mr. Lambourne makes some telling com-
parisons between the past and the present,
which will be calculated to awaken thought
and perchance stimulate young people to
emulate the valor and heroism of the noble
and valiant pioneers of these mountain vales.


PAMPHLET ON SERICULTURE.

	THE Utah Silk Commission have just
brought out a treatise on silk raising, that
will give all the necessary information on
this useful and remunerative industry.
The ladies have taken great pains to col-
lect practical facts and give them to the
public in order to facilitate the work of
those, who desire to engage in this interest-
ing and important home manufacture.
Looking over the book carefully, one can-


not fail to notice how very clearly every-
thing is told, and that there are no super-
fluous words or language, but a setting
forth of instructions that even the newest
beginner and the most inexperienced novice
in the art of silk culture will readily under-
stand.
	The book opens with instructions in re-
gard to the advantages of climate, and
other facilities within the state, and gives
much that is valuable and advantageous to
know of this wonderful little creature, the
silk worm; also concerning mulberry trees
and the care of the worms, feeding and pro-
tecting them and the best methods of treat-
ment and of carrying on the work; then
comes in full, An Act of the Legislature of
1896- in which the law was passed for the
establishment of sericulture in the state of
Utah, and this is followed by some pages
of definite information upon mulberry trees
and their care, next raising the worms and
the explicit treatment and methods, with
tables showing what can be done, the
necessary space allotted for certain numbers
and so on; and under heads farther on
TAKING CARE OF THE SEED, HATCHING
AND REELING.
	There are several plates in the book illus-
trating these processes, and in fact it is the
most complete work on this subject that
has ever been published here in Utah. The
commission are anxious this book should
be circulated in the state, and persons who
wish to raise cocoons or manufacture silk
should send to Mrs. Margaret A. Caine,
Secretary of the Utah Silk Commission for
the book, if they expect to follow out the
wisest and best methods to make the work
successful and profitable. The commission
is very anxious to encourage and promote
silk culture, and to make it a source of
revenue to individuals and to the state. It
was with this object in view that the Legis-
lature passed this act to establish it and ap-
propriated money to aid and foster the in-
dustry in the new state; and knowing
what has been accomplished in the past,
and what has been done recently in some
localities in Cache, Utah and Washington
counties, it is little less than a crime to let
this industry languish when there are so
many idle hands that could with a little
energy and perseverance help themselves
instead of being dependent. The results
obtained in reeled silk, lace and other arti-
cles as also in dress goods, are excellent.
The lace surpasses in beauty that which is
imported, and like other home made goods
will out-last and out-wear foreign fabrics,
and of course other things will also; the
whitest silk reeled from the white Russian
cocoons is very beautiful, almost dazzlingly
so. There could not be a more suitable
occupation for young girls than the reeling
of silk from the cocoons, which can be done
in their own homes, and is light and simple
employment, and one need not serve for
years to learn this business; the reelers will
be furnished where there is a sufficient
number of girls to form a class and cocoons
enough to warrant the necessary expendi-
ture of public money.
	We again invite correspondence on this
subject from those who have been success-
ful in obtaining satisfactory results.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


WEDDING BELLS.

	THE marriage of Miss Maude Pratt to J.
E. Griggs was solemnized in the Salt Lake


Temple in this city, April 22, 1897, by
President Wilford Woodruff.
	Miss Pratt is the daughter of Mr. and
Mrs. Laron Pratt of the 17th Ward, and
the grand-daughter of the late distinguished
Apostle Orson Pratt: the young lady is a
gifted singer of the Tabernacle choir, and is
a member of the Utah Woman’s Press
Club and one of the Aids in the Y. L. M.
I. A. of Salt Lake Stake. The young
husband is a son of T. C. Griggs and is an
honorable, upright citizen. The young
couple have a neat little home of their own
and are beginning right.
	"Though fools spurn Hymen's gentle powers
	We who improve his golden hours.
	By sweet experience know
	That marriage rightly understood
	Gives to the tender and the good
	A paradise below.”
	A reception was held at the residence of
the bride’s parents in the evening which
was an enjoyable affair. The rooms were
profusely decorated with flowering plants
and trailing vines, and also cut flowers
tastefully arranged, and everything be-
tokened a festive occasion. Delicious re-
freshments were daintily served to the
guests by the beautiful girls attired in
white, and a very elaborate and ornamental
wedding cake made in layers was a part of
it, tied in tissue paper and each guest
helped to one of these dainty little parcels.
	The bride was dressed in soft, clinging
white silk trimmed with lace and carried a
bunch of beautiful white roses, looking
very charming and happy—the bridesmaids
were Miss May Pratt the sister of the bride,
in pale green and pink carnations, and Miss
Pearl Russell, in white with red carnations,
both modest in demeanor as becomes beauti-
ful maidens There were two groomsmen
George Morris and Bert Griggs, and alto-
gether the quiet and graceful way in which
the bride and bridegroom and party received,
(the surroundings harmonizing) was very
pretty and appropriate to such an occasion.
Congratulations were very numerous and
earnest, and one cannot but feel that Mr.
and Mrs. Griggs have started on the jour-
ney of life with every prospect of future
prosperity and happiness.
	There were many valuable and useful
presents, gifts from members of the family
and intimate friends.
	We also extend the most sincere con-
gratulations to the young bride and bride-
groom, and wish them the most perfect
happiness consistent for mortals to enjoy in.
this probation, who are gaining an ex-
perience for eternity.
	“If solid happiness we prize,
	Within our hearts the jewel lies
	And they are fools who roam;
	The world has nothing to bestow—
	From our own selves our joys must flow
	And that dear hut our home ”


A FRIEND OF LONG AGO.
 
	A VERY pleasing incident unexpectedly
happened to the writer recently. A school
girl friend (of a remote period) on her way
from California to her home in Boston,
stopped off at Salt Lake to see the city as
tourists usually do, and while here recalled
to mind that she had known some of our
people in her early childhood, and particu-
larly remembered one, and was so impressed
with the idea that she inquired of a lady


sitting next her in the Tabernacle if she
knew such a person and so on. It proved
to be one who did know, and she came to
Waterloo after the services closed and
found the very one she was searching for.
Of course we didn’t know each other for
she was only ten years old when we last
met though the writer was fifteen, but the
past all came to view as soon as we con-
versed and it was indeed a most delightful
interview after so many years (more than
half a century) to talk over the people, the
places and the circumstances with which
we were both familiar in the days of child-
hood. Such meetings give one something
of an idea of the feelings we shall have
when we go behind the vail and meet old
friends and acquaintances.
	The time we passed together was limited
but we improved it to the uttermost. We
both called up the friends we had known
and made many inquiries, Mrs. Shaw
whom the writer had known as Frances B.
Hunter, remembered the Elders of our
Church preaching in the neighborhood
where we both lived, particularly the meet-
ing at mother’s house and the baptism in our
brook adjoining, and the Woodbury boys
speaking in tongues and interpreting.
Shortly after this time we went to Nauvoo
and her family moved to another part of
the State of Massachusetts so she lost all
trace of us and we of them. When she
came to this city she had no idea whether we
were living or dead, but was, as she ex-
plained it, so anxious to know what had
become of us that she inquired.
	The party consisted of Dr. Samuel J.
Shaw and wife, his brother and wife from
Boston. Dr. Shaw impressed one as be-
ing a man of learning and of careful
thought, extremely liberal in his opinions,
and not a member of any Church. They
have one daughter married who resides in
Boston. They were, judging from con-
versation, favorably impressed with Utah
and the people, with the services at the
Tabernacle, with the Governor and with
Saltair and our beautiful Lake. It was
indeed very gratifying to meet Mrs. Shaw
and her husband and to renew the acquain-
tance or over half a century.

	“The day is short, O friend,
		That reaches out before us;
	God’s tender heavens above us bend,
		His love is smiling o’er us;
	A little while is ours
		For sorrow or for laughter;
	I’ll lay the hand you love in yours,
		On the shore of the Hereafter.”


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ON Friday April 30, we attended the
Relief Society Conference of Utah S ake
held at American Fork. Other visitors
were President Zina D. H. Young and her
daughter Sister Zina Y. Card and Elder L.
John Nuttall. President Mary John of
Provo was present and presided, opening
the Conference with a hearty welcome to
all present. The presidents of branches
gave encouraging reports and the speakers
most of them dwelt much upon home in-
dustries and productions, especially urging
the sisters to take hold of sericulture, and
make it a success, also to sustain our home
periodicals and advised young women to
enroll their names and become active mem-
bers of the Relief Society. There was a
very large attendance especially in the


afternoon, and Bishop Robinson was ex
ceedingly thoughtful and kind in providing
for the horses, as many of the sisters from
other settlements came with teams, rail-
roads not being convenient or money plenti-
ful. Sister Ellen D. Clark, President of
the Relief Society at American Fork, pre-
pared a sumptuous dinner for thirty or
more of the sisters and brethren, though
there were but a few brethren, it being
seed time, probably they were in the fields
at work. Sister Zina Young was in one of
her most eloquent moods, and as the Con
ference was numerously attended it was
very gratifying to have the President of
this great organization present, to hear her
and no doubt they appreciated the privilege.
We expect to have the minutes taken to
publish in the next issue of the paper.
	ONE of the sad things in connection with
the death of Elder Joseph Horne, the aged
patriarch who departed this life on Tuesday
April 27, at 3 p. m , was the sudden de
mise of the twin boys of Brother and Sister
Tingey, the following day. They were
Brother Horne’s grandchildren by his daugh-
ter Martha—and the last official act of his life
in the priesthood was blessing one of these
twin-babies on the Sabbath morning, when
they were eight days old, April 18. He
was taken sick the same night and from
that time gradually declined until the hour
of his departure from mortality. The twins
were named Weiler and Stafford Horne
Tingey and were nineteen days old; both
died on the same day only a few hours
apart. The funeral took place on Thurs-
day, April 29, and Brother Horne was
buried the following day, Friday, April
30. We feel confident that our sisters will
deeply sympathize with the family in this
double bereavement, and exercise their faith
in behalf of those who mourn that they
may be comforted; and we most earnestly
pray for the young mother who has been
called to part with her little sons that she
may be speedily restored to health, and
may the angels from on high draw near to
her and may she be able and willing to
acknowledge the hand of our Heavenly
Father in this sore affliction, knowing that
He doeth all things well, and knows what
is best for His children.
	'Weep not for those whom the vail of t e tomb
	In life’s happy morning has hid from our eyes,
Ere sin threw a blight o’er their spirits young
	bloom.
	Or earth had profaned what was born for the
		skies,”


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CON-
FERENCE.

	EVENING SESSION: April 3, commenc-
ing at 7.30, President Zina D. H. Young
presiding, Counselors Jane S. Richards and
Bathsheba W. Smith on the stand, also
President Charles O. Card and Sisters M.
Isabella Horne, E. B. Wells, R. B. Pratt,
Zina Y. Card and several Presidents of
the Relief Society from the different Stakes
of Zion, some from a great distance notably
Sister Mary L. Woolf, President Alberta
Stake Relief Society, Canada, and Sister
Annie Hardy from Pacheco, Mexico, who
represented Juarez Stake Relief Society.
	Conference opened with singing “O say
what is truth;” prayer was offered by
Elder Charles O. Card, President Alberta
Stake, Canada; continued by singing

[Column 2]
“Redeemer of Israel.” President Zina D.
H. Young made a few opening remarks,
regretted the small attendance, yet felt
many of the sisters who had come from a
distance were weary and needed rest, as
the General Conference opened the next
morning, therefore could scarcely expect
they could come out in the evening.
	President Susan Grant of the Relief
Society of Davis Stake, made a brief report
of the Society in that County and expressed
her great pleasure in the good work; com-
mended the officers and members in the
several branches in that locality, said they
were diligent and on hand to obey counsel;
rejoiced in the faith of the Gospel and the
work of the Society.
	Sister Annie D. Hardy, representative
from Mexico, spoke cheerfully and in an
interesting manner of the country, the mis-
sion undertaken by the people in that local-
ity, and the good feeling that prevailed;
referred to the Society in Pacheco of which
she was President, but said there were not
enough older sisters to have a meeting with-
out mixing with the young ladies; they had
planted out mulberry trees in Mexico and
hoped to be able to do something in sericul-
ture. Sister Hardy was very encouraging
in her remarks and manifested an excellent
spirit; spoke in terms of praise of the sisters,
and of the efforts being made by them to be
helpful and also faithful in the Gospel.
	President Adeline S. Barber, Relief Soci-
ety Cache Stake, felt to be spurred on to
make efforts in industrial as well as spirit-
ual work; reported 7,000 bushels of grain
there and stated that three more granaries
had recently been built in the Stake; she
thought that the sisters had a mission to
raise silk, spoke of sending from Logan
to Brigham City for mulberry leaves; in
that place (Logan) they had reeled their
silk and it brought a good price. Sister
Barber had a dream about the raising of silk
and it had come to pass; nine girls had been
taught to reel up there, they had made a
window curtain of silk for one of the win-
dows of the Logan Temple. A brother
who manufactures under clothing will buy
all the reeled silk the Society can spare.
Sister Barber told of the efforts made in a
small way by little donations and saving
Sunday eggs to help on sericulture, the
Lord had blest their efforts to start the silk
industry; they had made some silk stock-
ings, pillow lace and a shawl; these things
were exhibited to the sisters. Sister Bar-
ber convinced all present of her interest in
home manufacture and her energy in her
work in the Relief Society, temporal and
spiritual.
	President Ann C. Woodbury, Relief
Society, St. George Stake, felt sure they
had a mint in sericulture, realized it would
be a benefit to them in taking care of the
poor and providing work for those who
were able to do a little towards their own
support. To illustrate the perseverance of
the sisters, Sister Woodbury told us one
asked the Bishop for a piece of land; she
wanted it on a lease for fifty years, to build
a granary and she got it, and then built
the granary with the help of the Society.
Sister Woodbury also urged the sisters to
be faithful and work for their dead.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke of
the first sermon President Brigham Young
preached here in the valley, and what he
said of the air being filled with the ele-
ments of silk, of his great faith in the en-
terprise as furnishing work for the idle and

[Column 3]
also its being remunerative; thought we
should bestir ourselves and try to get em-
ployment for our girls and boys instead of
letting them grow up in idleness; was glad
the sisters in Cache had made such efforts
to establish sericulture but realized that St.
George and the Southern part of the State
was best adapted to this important home
industry.
	Sister Zina Y. Card talked about home
industries; referred to her father’s words,
(President Brigham Young) when he said
the elements were full of silk, it was in the
air, and if we persevered in following his
teachings we could do much towards our
own maintenance. The speaker alluded
eloquently to what might be accomplished
in this direction not only in sericulture, but
in cultivating hops, starting vineyards of
this vine and also the grape vine; added
‘‘If we have done these things then we are
rich, and if we have not then we are to
blame, for not listening to counsel; father
had a large house built on the silk farm
where there were thousands of mulberry
trees;” described the silk farm, and told us
that her mother lived there for a time and
how she had become attached to the
silk worms, though shrinking from them
at first. Sister Card thought we as a peo-
ple had made too much of the things of
this world, and thought too much of the
business of the world, and of riches and
worshiping the things of the world instead
of seeking after spiritual things, thought it
was displeasing in the sight of the Lord.
The speaker urged the mothers to teach
their children that it was a disgrace to live
off their father after they were of age, they
should be self-supporting, learn a trade or
go out and take up land and be indepen-
dent. Thought the Relief Society should
have a house of their own to meet in, felt
positive we would and wanted it to come
before the aged sisters who were with us
now and who had borne so much, passed
away.
	Sister E. B. Wells read the total of the
statistical and financial report of the Relief
Society for the year 1896—and made some
explanations in reference to the growth and
progress of that magnificent organization
which reached around the world, and had
benefited so large a number temporally,
morally and spiritually. Reported concern-
ing the branches of the Society upon the
islands of the Sea, paid a glowing tribute to
the labors on the Sandwich Islands of the
late Sister Libbie Noall, and mentioned the
branches in European countries, and made
special reference to the organizations effect-
ed during the past year in Chicago and
Sacramento, and also in reference to the
Society being connected with the National
Council of women of the United States and
felt it was a great step in advance, did not
understand why any one should object to
the name National being added, especially
as the Society was both national and inter-
national before we took the name. Sister
Wells thought every young sister should
enroll her name with the Relief Society and
assist in the charitable work; also made
some telling remarks upon the silk indus-
try, thought it more desirable than a gold
mine, the work was much easier and not
dangerous; hoped we could all of us have
silk dresses and other necessary apparel of
the same material; spoke very strongly up-
on this industry, explained about the Com-
mission appointed by the Governor, and
the appropriation made by the Legislature


of 1896, and the bounty on cocoons, and
thought if we were earnest and energetic
in producing silk we might have other
help in the manufacturing, it would require
patience and perseverance, and we could
not expect too much at first. The speaker
made a strong appeal to the sisters to en-
deavor to encourage home literature as
well as other home products.
	Conference adjourned until next October.
Singing “O my Father” benediction by
Sister E. B. Wells.
			E. B. WELLS, Secretary.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM. 
			  ELIZABETH JENKINS PREECE.

	AT a recent meeting of the Relief Society of
the Fourth ward the following references to the
life and work of Sister Elizabeth Jenkins Preece
were entered on the records of the society:
	Sister Elizabeth Jenkins Preece was born in
Herefordshire, England, June 14, 1827, and with
her parents gathered with the Saints at Nauvoo
in 1844. She was baptized into the Church at ten
years of age, and was married to John Preece at
Nauvoo in 1845. She came to Utah with her hus-
band in 1848, and from that time until her death
was a resident of the Fourth Ward.
	Few women have been more active than was
Sister Preece in carrying on the work God gives
women to do, and her Christian life, filled with
sacrifices and benefactions to the sick and needy,
may well serve as a model for those who seek to
gain at the end of earth’s 1abors the Master’s ap-
proving word, "Well done thou good and faith-
ful servant, enter thou into the joys of thy Lord.”
	For many years Sister Preece as president,
directed the labors of this Relief Society, and
through her untiring energy and gentle charity
much good was done for humanity.
	We are comforted for her loss in the conscious-
ness that for over half a century she lived in the
full faith of the Gospel, and that she took her de-
parture in the certain hope of a glorious resur-
rection.
					SARAH ARTHUR,
					MARY A. WEILER,
							Committee.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	To our beloved Sister SageTreharne Jones, who
departed this life March 30, after suffering for
some time at intervals with severe spells of sick-
ness.
	Sister Jones was born at Ridively, Carmar-
thenshire, South Wales, on the 27th day of Nov-
ember, 1832, and became a member of this
Church in 1848, and in company with her parents,
William and Ann Treharne, emigrated to Utah in
1849, crossing the ocean in Captain Dan Jones’
company. She remained in Council  Bluffs with
her parents about three years and arrived in Salt
Lake City in 1852 In that same year she was
married to Thomas Jones and for a few months
resided in Spanish Fork  In the spring of 1853
she moved to Cedar City. In the year 1862 Sis-
ter Jones was left a widow with five sons and one
daughter. 
	Her only daughter and one son have died with-
in the last two years. They with their father will
gladly welcome home their loved one who has en-
dured faithfully to the end.
	Sister Jones has been connected with the Re-
lief Society ever since its first organization. For
a period of twenty-two years she has successively
filled the honorable position of Counselor, Presi-
dent and at her demise was first Counselor to our
Stake President, Sister Mary Ann Lunt. Sister
Jones though quite sick at the time, attended our
last Society Conference on the 12th of February,
and bore a powerful testimony to the truth of this
work.
	WHEREAS, We feel that by her death we have
been deprived of a true and sincere friend and
wise Counselor.
	RESOLVED, That we desire to emulate her
noble example, and that we herewith express our
deep sympathy for her children and grandchild-
ren.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
placed on the records of our Society, and one
sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.
					MARY A. DOVER,
					MARY J. CORBETT
					JANE P. MACKELPRANG
							Committee
	Cedar City, April 9th.


[Column 1]
MARY STUART.

READ AT THE REAPERS CLUB SEP. 1897.
	SCOTLAND was before her with its rough
quarreling, contentions, factions, and
though she strive with all her womanly
might, what would it weigh against ambi-
tion and party strife. She landed at Leith
1561, her subjects receiving her with dem-
onstrations of joy. She determined to treat
the Reformers with kindness and consider-
ation, with the hope of gaining their confi-
dence. But in their leader, John Knox,
she met with strong opposition. He was a
man of great courage and strength of mind,
and the object of his life was to overturn
the power of the Pope in Scotland. He de-
nounced against the mass that was per-
formed in her own chapel, and the extrava-
gance of the court, bewailing as sinful
their dancing and other pastimes.
	The subject of her marriage was a vexed
one. It was urged by Knox that it was
the duty of the states to give her a hus-
band, that she had no right to impose one
on them. The Papists wished her to
marry a Catholic. The Reformers spoke
against one. Elizabeth feared a foreign
contract and presented her favorite the Earl
of Liecester. For three years this formed
the subject of a correspondence between the
two queens. Mary finally resolved to
marry her cousin, Lord Darnley, a man of
fine personal appearance, some three years
her junior. To this Elizabeth objected,
showing her hatred by confining his mother,
the Lady Lennox, in the tower and recall-
ing Darnley and his father from Scotland.
But in spite of all opposition Darnley and
Mary were married and it is said there was
never a more handsome couple. She was
in her twenty-fourth year and never more
beautiful. Darnley was of a grasping, self-
ish disposition, and it soon became appar-
ent that the crown of Scotland was more to
him than the queen. Dissatisfaction arose
between them, he grew envious of the con-
fidence she reposed in her secretary, David
Rezzio, and planned with others his assassina-
tion, which was accomplished, dragging
him from the presence of the queen and
her ladies. Mary vowed to be avenged on
his murderers, but with her gentle, forgiving
disposition it was impossible for her to hold
malice and listening to her husband’s per-
suasions none of the conspirators were
ever brought to justice.
	In July, 1566 a son was born to her to
whom was given the name of James. She
hoped this auspicious event would tend to
unite the different parties. Her days were 
full of anxiety and care. With all the
titles and honor she had bestowed upon
Darnley he was still dissatisfied and desired
to have conferred upon himself the crown
Matrimonial which in case of her death
would leave him king of Scotland. With
his arrogant pride and contempt of all re-
straint she could not feel to give him this.
He retaliated by leaving her society and
seeking that of dissolute companions.
Mary had made her brother, the Earl of
Murray, her minister. He was a devoted
Reformer and as such strongly opposed her
marriage with Darnley. He now incited
her nobles to rebellion, leaving her with
but a small party. James, Earl of Both-
well was one who remained faithful to her
interests; she made him minister in place
of Murray, who had escaped to England.
Darnley she could place no reliance upon.
He seemed suspicious of all who allied

[Column 2]
themselves with her cause. His willful
ness made her very unhappy. Hearing of
his sickness she sent her own physician to
him and prevailed upon him to return to
Edinburgh. One week later the house he
lodged in was blown up with powder and
his lifeless body was found near by. His
death was not so great a surprise as the
mystery which surrounded it. Bothwell
was accused of the crime with Mary as an
accomplice. Historians are divided on the
question, but Miss Benger who is a late
writer and authority says the last fifty
years has cleared much that was doubtful,
and gives stronger arguments in favor of
her innocence than can be found against it.
“Of no character in history,” she continues
“is there so much that is contradictory.”
Manvissire, ambassador between Scotland
and England at this time writes of his be-
lief in her innocence, although he was not
partial to her. We have in her life in-
numerable instances of her kindness of
heart, of her loving disposition, of her gen-
tleness and forbearance towards those who
differed in opinion with her. Such a deed
is worthy only of a Mary of England, or a
Catharine D. Medicis. Bothwell was sum-
moned to appear with others for trial, but
was acquitted.
	He now determined to marry the queen
and to this end gained the consent and
signatures of his nobles, carried Mary to
his Castle at Dunbar where she remained
for ten days, and whether prompted by
fear or worn and disheartened by the cares
around her, she consented to the marriage
which was performed quietly a few days
later. Bothwell treated her as a prisoner,
sentinels stood at her chamber door. No
one came to her but by his permission.
She was most wretched every day she was
seen to weep and bewail her unhappy lot.
For Bothwell she entertained no feeling
but that of fear. He attempted to gain
possession of the young prince, but was de-
feated by the uprising of the people. Mary
and Bothwell met the nobles at Carberry
hill, but the soldiers refusing to fight under
Bothwell, she placed herself under their
protection, on the assurance that Bothwell
should leave the field in safety. He sailed
for Denmark and in a few years died in-
sane. Thus ended the marriage of one
month.
	She now found herself a captive, and
more, was requested by the nobles to abdi-
cate the throne in favor of her son, during
whose minority her brother Murray was to
be regent. Feeling there was no alterna-
tive she complied with their demands. It
seems strange that among all those who
had enjoyed her prosperity there were none
to espouse her cause in this trying hour.
For one year she remained in captivity,
then made her escape, collected an army of
6,000 men only to be defeated. She hasti-
ly fled from Scotland, determined to throw
herself on the kindness of Elizabeth, but
on entering England found herself a prison-
er. The English queen professed to feel
much sorrow for her, but requested her to
clear her name from all complicity in the
murder of Darnley. Mary answered in her
own right she was a queen and Elizabeth’s
equal, and denied their authority to sum-
mon her to trial. For eighteen years she
remained in England a captive. Many
times she was brought to trial, but nothing
proved against her, but for the safety of
the Protestant party and Elizabeth’s peace
of mind, was kept a prisoner. Finally a


conspiracy was formed for the assassination of
Elizabeth, and Mary was accused of being
one of the number. She denied all knowl-
edge of it but was condemned to death,
Elizabeth signing her death warrant.
Through these long years of imprisonment
Mary Beaton remained her faithful compan-
ion. The time was passed in study and
needlework.
	Her last days were spent in Forthering-
hay Castle. On February 7, 1586, the
Lords of Shrewsbury and Kent presented
themselves before her and read the sentence
of execution, which was to take place the
following morning at eight o’clock. She
expressed surprise at the short time given
her, but commenced preparation at once.
She wrote several letters, made her will,
remembering each servant, and wishing she
could better repay their fidelity. She then
retired to her bed, arose early in the morn-
ing and spent some time in prayer, after
which she dressed with unusual care. She
wore a black satin dress with long sleeves
and train, while a black veil fell to her feet,
an ivory crucifix was suspended from her
neck When the sheriff came she accom-
panied him from the room, but requested
that some of the servants might witness
her last moments; her physician, steward
and two maids were allowed to accompany
her. In the hall of the Castle was arranged
a platform of about two feet in height;
Mary advanced with dignity to the edge
and was lifted by her steward to the stage,
where a seat was placed for her use. The
executioners came forward to ask her for-
giveness. She knelt and prayed for the
Church, the queen of England and for her
son; then tenderly took leave of her atten-
dants, who were overcome with grief. A
handkerchief was bound across her eyes,
and laying her head upon the block, with
the crucifix in her hands, she repeated soft-
ly, “In Thee O, Lord I have put my
trust.” So perished Mary Stuart in the
forty-sixth year of her age and the nine-
teenth of her captivity. We are apt to
look with disfavor upon those unfortunate
enough to meet with a succession of re-
verses; thinking perhaps, if not an inflic-
tion of Providence, it must be the result of
their blindness or folly. But I can see
only a woman, weak and erring it may be,
being only human, but kind and loving to
her friends, merciful and compassionate to
her enemies. We may now safely say
with the Archbishop of Burges who was
appointed to preach her funeral sermon in
Paris, “Marble and brass and iron decay,
or are devoured by rust, but in no age how-
ever long the world may endure, will the
memory of Mary Stuart, queen of Scotland
and Dowager of France, cease to be re-
garded with affectionate rememberance.”
						LOUIDE.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


JUBILEE PRIZE COMPETITION.
	THE Semi-Centennial Commission offers
$200 cash in prizes as follows: First, $100
for the best poem on the subject of the
Pioneers or the Pioneer Jubilee, to consist
of not more than one hundred nor fewer
than fifty lines. All compositions to be
signed by an initial or a nom de plume, and
to be forwarded to the secretary of the com-
mission together with a separate envelope
containing the real name of the author,
not later than June 1, 1897,
	Second, $100 for the best musical com-
position in four parts with organ accompani-


ment to the following lines from a poem by
Bishop O. F. Whitney:
ODE TO THE PIONEERS.
Hail to the year of jubilee!
	Let pealing anthems rise,
And bursts of echoing melody
	Loud mingle with the skies!
Let earth resound with music’s power;
	Glad welcoming the year,
When Utah sees her natal hour
	The fiftieth time appear. * * * 
Far down the mystic river of the mind.
A fleet of recollections slowly wind,
A wreath of flowers from Fancy’s garden
	brought,
Historic views on memory’s canvas wrought.
* * * * 
Lo! issuing from the canyon’s rough defile,
Where frowns on either side a lofty pile,
A little band of sun-burnt mountaineers
Halt on the ridge—whose milder summit rears
The towering peaks and plain to intervene—
And gaze with wonder on the glorious scene.
Ah! marvel nothing if the eye may trace
The care lines on each toil-worn hero’s face;
Nor yet if down his cheek in silent show,
The trickling tides of tender feeling flow.

Would e’en the coldest heart forbear to say
Good cause had gratitude to weep that day?
Or censure for a flow of manly tears,
That brave-souled band—immortal Pioneers?
Their names? Go view them on the Golden
	Page,
The gift of glory to remotest age;
The van of civilization’s westward sweep,
The few that sowed what millions yet shall reap

	Composers to have the customary privi-
lege of rearranging or repeating the words.
Competitions to be forwarded to the secre-
tary not later than May 20, 1897, signed by
a nom de plume or an initial, and accom-
panied by a separate envelope containing
the real name of the composer. The ad-
judicators will be selected from competent
musicians outside of the State by whom
the names of the competitors will be un-
known.
	Both the poem and the composition to
be rendered at the reception to the Pioneers
in the Tabernacle, July 20, 1897. Both
competions to be limited to Utah poets and
musicians.
	For further particulars address,
			SPENCER CLAWSON,
							Chairman.


[Column 1]
ARE YOU GOING EAST THIS
SUMMER?
If so you will receive some valuable infor-
mation by calling upon or addressing L. J. 
Kyes, Ticket Agent U. P. Ry., No. 201
South Main Street. 

[Column 2]
NOTICE!
TO ALL WHO ARE INTERESTED IN
SILK CULTURE
IN THE STATE OF UTAH. 
	The Utah Silk Commission desires
all who wish to engage in this industry,
this year, to send at once their name and
full address for pamphlet of instructions,
also a statement of your facilities for
raising cocoons and the number of silk
worm eggs you desire. Address all com-
munications to Margaret A. Caine, Secre-
tary Utah Silk Commission, Salt Lake
City, Utah.
	All county papers please copy.

[image of badge]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD’S PICTORIAL LINE

[beside the badge]
The
People’s
Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited” for Chichaga,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City. Denver and Park City			7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver							7:00 p.m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line. 
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City				3:10 p m.
"The Fast Mail,” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver					3:30 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
		S. H. H. CLARK,
		OLIVER W. MINK, 
		E. ELLERY ANDERSON, 
		JOHN W. DOANE, 
		FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
					Receivers. 
	E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt. 
	E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
		H. M. CLAY, General Agent. 

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50  Main St. 
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


MARY WAREHAM JACKSON.

	DIED, at her home in American Fork, Oct. 7,
1897, our beloved sister, Mary Wareham Jackson.
Sister Wareham was born Nov. 2, 1825 in York-
shire, England. Embrace the Gospel in Shef-
field, and emigrated to Utah in 1855 with her
husband, George Wareham. She has been a
teacher in the Relief Society from its first organ-
ization and filled her office with credit to herself
and satisfaction to her coworkers. In connection
with her husba d she entered into the principle
of Celestial marriage, and after his death was
married again to Brother W. W. Jackson, by
whom she had two sons, one of whom survives
her, also four grandchildren.
	She was a good neighbor, warm-hearted and
liberal, always on hand to assist a friend or help
the poor and needy. Her departure was sudden.


though having been sick for some time no one
seemed to think the end was so near, as her
faith in the priesthood was strong and she always
revived after the administration of the Elders.
Her testimony was unwavering, and she died as
she had lived a faithful Latter-day Saint, and in
the sure hope or a glorious resurrection.
				MARY S. HINDLEY,
				JEMIMA DURRANT,
				EMMA FEATHERSTONE,
							Committee.
	In behalf of the Relief Society.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation.	145
VOL 25.					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1897.						No22.


[Original text difficult to read due to reverse text from another page]

			CONTENTS

	Egypt—Julia A. Druce. Silk Worm Eggs—
M. A. Till. U. W. P. C.—Orielle Curtis, Sec.
Biographical Sketch—Louissa W. Jones. Con-
cert In Washington, D. C. An Interesting Trip
Della Fish. R. S. Reports. In Memoriam. A
Interesting Time—L. S. Wilcox. Ladies' Semi-
Monthly Meeting—Zina H. Bull, Sec.

	POETRY:—Memorial Hymn—Rebecca Palfry
Utter. One Year Ago—L. D. Adler.

	EDITORIAL:—Twenty-five Years. Editorial
Notes. Three Quarters Of A Century.


[Text difficult to read due to reversed text from another page]

		MEMORIAL HYMN.

	O God, our Heavenly Father,
		Through our country free
	A wordless army rises
		And lifts its voice to thee.
	No clasp of arms, no war-cry
		In all the peaceful throng;
	Our only arms are flowers,
		Our cry is prayer and song.
	
	We breathe the name of comrades
		Who, standing by our side,
	For union and for freedom
		So nobly fought and died.
	From toil and pain, and battle
		Well have they won rele[-]se;
	We give them love and honor;
		Thou givest rest and peace.

	Thou carest for the lilies;
		Thou seest sparrows fall;
	Some are by us forgotten,
		But Thou rememberest all.
	The lonely graves and nameless,
		Beyond the reach of ours,
	Thy hand of loving kindness
		Will crown today with flowers.
				REBECCA PALFREY UTTER.

May 30.


[Column 1]
			EGYPT.

READ BEFORE THE REAPER’S CLUB BY 
		MISS JULIA A DRUCE.
	SOME years after the reign of Misraim in
Egypt a ruler called Busiris built the fam-
ous city of Thebes and made it the seat of
his empire. This prince must not be con-
founded with the Busiris who was so in-
famous for his cruelties. Thebes was a
great city of Egypt but is now in ruins;
and its remains extend for many miles
along both banks of the Nile. Tradition 
says that it was first built by Misraim. It
is the oldest city in the world, and is situ-
ated in Upper Egypt, about 335 miles
southeast from Cairo. Thebes was also called
the great city of Jupiter. In it was found-
ed the first college, and the first palace for a
king. Its circumference was twenty-three
miles. It had one hundred gates, and was,
according to history, sufficiently populous
to send forth from each of these gates in
time of war, two hundred armed chariots
and ten thousand men. Thebes was laid
in ruins by the Persians under Cambyses,
in 525 B. C., and many of its noblest edi-

[Column 2]
fices and monuments were destroyed. For
nearly three thousand years the sand has
accumulated within it, burying some of the
largest monuments, and in some instances
hiding almost entire temples. ‘‘The ob-
server who first approaches Thebes sees
only a confused mass of vast obelisks,
portals and columns, towering above palm
trees; but a closer and longer inspection
awakens sensations of awe and astonish-
ment.” Among its temples the most re-
markable are those of the Palace—Temple
of Karnak; the Temple of Luxor; the
Memnonium; the tomb of Osymandias; and
the mountain, tombs or Catacombs of
Thebes—these latter are sometimes called
the Necropolis.—Karnak surpasses in its
grandeur all the others. It stands at the
southeastern extremity of the city, and its
name is derived from the village which has
sprung up on a portion of its site. The
French engineers—when Napoleon invaded
Egypt—were one hour and a half in riding
around it. "The temple itself is 1,200
feet in length, and its breadth is 420 feet.
It is approached by a long avenue of
enormous Sphynx—the largest in exist-
ence—and by a succession of gates and
colossal statues, constructed of different
stones and marbles. Two of the sculptured
obelisks are sixty-nine feet, and another is
ninety-one feet high. The portion that
was the chief hall, 159 feet in breadth and
318 feet long, has for the support of its
roof 134 grand columns, each seventy feet
high and eleven in diameter. All the
sculptured work has been colored and still
retains its brightness. The avenue of
Sphynx has now but fifty of its six hun-
dred still standing.’’
 	''The Temple of Luxor, especially when
viewed from the river which flowed through
the city, is a lovely sight. It stands in a
plain covered with palm trees and with
mountains stretching behind it. Beside
its portico stood two obelisks, each nearly
80 feet high and 32 feet in circumference,
composed of a single block  of beautiful
rose-colored, polished granite from the
quarries of Syene.” One of these obelisks
is now in Paris, France. It was taken
there in 1833 A. D., and erected in the
Place de la Concorde. ‘‘There were two
colossal seated statues, partially concealed
by the rising sand, each carved from a
single block of black granite. The propy-
lon, which is 200 feet high, contains stone
enough to build a cathedral. Inside it has
200 columns, varying in dimensions, most
of which are entire. All its apartments
are covered with sculptured work, executed
with extreme care and delicacy, this being
done as minute in parts as if it was the
work of a seal engraver. Here it is sup-
posed that Homer studied the sculptured
battle and triumphs to gain inspiration for
his most heroic strains.’’ The tomb of
Osymandias was, as the historian Diodor-
us informs us, at once a palace, a library
and a tomb. It was a mile and a quarter in
circumference and was adorned with sculp-
ture of the greatest excellence and splendor.
This tomb was partially destroyed by the
Persians when they invaded Egypt. Only

[Column 3]
the remains of two colossal figures indicate
now the spot on which it stood.
	Of the Catacombs in Egypt, those at
Thebes are considered the most remarka-
ble. They are the oldest that are known
and can be traced back for 4000 years.
These Catacombs are now nearly all of
them dismantled of their contents. “An
artist who visited them before they had
been completely dispoiled says, he discovered
some little chambers, and on the walls of
one were represented all kinds of arms,
such as coats of mail, bows, arrows, jave-
lins, sabres, helmets, etc. In another room
there was found a collection of household
utensils, such as chairs, chests of draw-
ers, beds, etc., all of exquisite form and
suitable to have graced the apartments of
luxury and wealth. Besides these there
were vases and other small articles. In
still another room was represented agricul-
ture, showing a man sowing grain by the
side of a canal; a field of corn reaped with
a sickle; and fields of rice with men watch-
ing them. In a fourth room was a figure
clothed in white, represented as playing on
a richly ornamented harp with eleven
strings."
	The city of Thebes lost its previous im-
portance soon after its revolt against
Ptolemy Lathyrus, and its subsequent cap-
ture by the Greeks B. C. 82, after a siege
of three years.
	Diodorus gives a very particular discrip-
tion of many magnificent edifices raised by
King Osymandyas, one of which was
adorned with sculptures and paintings of
exquisite beauty; representing his expedi-
tion against the Bactrians—a people of Asia—
whom he had invaded with four hundred
thousand foot soldiers, and twenty thou-
sand cavalry. “In another part of this
edifice was exhibited an assembly of the
judges, whose president wore on his breast
a picture of truth with her eyes shut, and
himself was surrounded with books. Not far
from hence was seen a magnificent library, 
the oldest mentioned in history.”
	The Mausoleum of this king displayed
uncommon splendor. It was encompassed
with a circle of gold, a cubit in breadth and
365 cubits in circumference, each cubit of
which showed the rising and setting of the
sun, moon and the other planets; for so
early as this king’s reign the Egyptians di-
vided the year into twelve months, each
consisting of thirty days, to which they
added every year five days and six hours.” 
	Menes, or Misraim built the city of
Memphis; and Uchoreus, one of the suc-
cessors of Osymandyas, is also said to have
built this city, which was situated at the
point of the Delta, in Lower Egypt. It
was the ancient capital of that country, and
was one hundred and fifty furlongs, or
more than seven leagues in circumference.
Southward from Memphis this latter king
raised a lofty mole or hill; and on the right 
and left he dug very deep moats to receive
the river. These were faced with stone,
and raised near the city by strong cause-
ways; the whole designed to secure the
place from inundations of the Nile, and in-
cursions of the enemy. A city so well


[Column 1]
situated and so strongly fortified—that it
was almost the Key of the Nile, and by this
means commanded the whole country—
soon became a usual residence of the Egyp-
tian kings; and remained so until Alexan-
dria was built, by Alexander the Great.
This city is situated 112 miles northwest
from Cairo; under the dynasty of the Ptolem-
ies the city made great progress. Alexan-
dria was the chief emporium for the com-
merce of India; and it also became at this
time the center of the sciences, such as
mathematics, astronomy etc. It contained
an immense library, the largest of antiquity,
chiefly collected by Ptolemy Soter and
Ptolemy Philadelphus, which consisted
of 700,000 volumes, about 400,000 of which
were destroyed by fire when Julius Caesar
was blockaded in the Greek part of the
city, during his war with the Alexandrians,
and the remaining volumes were destroyed
by Amron—the general of Caliph Omar, the
Saracen—A D. 640.
	After falling before the Roman arms
Alexandria scarcely lost any of its splendor;
but when conquered by the Caliphs, and
subjected to the Saracen yoke, it then be-
gan and continued to decline, until the dis-
covery of a passage to India by the Cape of
Good Hope in 1497, gave the final blow to
its importance and trade. Its chief ecclesi-
astical building is the Mosque of the Thou-
sand and One Pillars. This city was
founded 332 B. C., and Dinocrates, a cele-
brated architect, who rebuilt the temple of
Diana at Ephesus, was engaged to lay out
its plan. There are now very few remains
by which its ancient magnificence can be
recognized.
	One of the two obelisks known as Cleo-
patra’s Needles, was first acquired for Eng-
land by Sir Ralph Abercrombie in 1801, at
which time it had long been embedded in
the sand and mud of the shore. It was not
removed at that time, but was presented to
the British government by Mehemet Ali,
the first Khedive of Egypt, and again offer-
ed to them by the next Khedive in 1877.
It now stands on the Thames embankment
—England—between the Charing Cross
and Waterloo bridges, and was erected at
this place on the 12th of September, 1878.
Mr. John Dixon was entrusted with the
work of removing and seeing to the safe
transportation of this obelisk. The Eng-
lish Monolith, as well as the other one
which is in New York City, is of hard,
compact red granite, known as Theban
stone, which was obtained from the quar-
ries of Syene on the Nile.
	It is supposed that these Egyptian relics
were brought to Alexandria from some
ancient Egyptian temple, during Greek or
Roman rule, and are stated to have been
originally erected at Heliopolis about 1600
B. C., by the King Thothmes III., and as
amongst the hieroglyphics with which they
are covered, the names of Thothmes III., of
Rameses II., and of a still later king have
been deciphered upon one of them, it seems
probable that their true history and origin
has yet to be discovered; but we can be
sure that they date back to an early period 
of Egyptian history. The obelisk that
was standing at Alexandria when the Eng-
lish were removing theirs, was examined by
Mr. Dixon. This engineer thought he
could perhaps obtain information respecting
the time of its removal to Alexandria.
“After obtaining permission from the Khe-
dive, he took away considerable soil, sand
and debris, when he found that its buried
base was resting upon a construction of 

[Column 2]
rough masonry. At one corner was
seen a bronze crab with an inscription in
Greek and also in Latin on one of its claws.
The translation of these inscriptions—which
were both the same—was to the effect that
this obelisk had been erected or re-erected at
Alexandria in the reign of Augustus Cæsar,
21 B. C., by the engineer Pontius, and
placed before the Cæsareum, or, as it was
sometimes called, the Temple of Augustus
Caesar.” The obelisk—one of Cleopatra’s
Needles—that was presented by the Khe-
dive of Egypt to the United States, was
set up in Central Park, New York City, in
1881, A. D. 
	On what was formerly the Island of
Pharos in the Bay of Alexandria, but which
is now a peninsula, Ptolemy Soter and his 
successor, Ptolemy Philadelphus, built a
Pharos or lighthouse, which was considered
one of the seven wonders of the world. It
was constructed of white marble, and fires
were lighted on the top to warn travelers of
the difficult access to the bay. It could be
seen at a distance of one hundred miles.
The Pillar of Diocletian—better known
as “Pompey’s Pillar,’’—stands between
the city and Lake Mareotis; while the
Catacombs of Alexandria are at a distance
of about two miles from it, cut in the face
of a calcareous rock which fronts the Sea.
	When Amron, the Saracen general, took
possession of this city, he stated in a letter
to the Caliph, that he found in Alexandria
4000 palaces, 4000 baths, 40,000 Jews who
paid tribute, 400 royal circuses, and 12,000
gardeners who supplied the city with all
kinds of herbs, or vegetables in great plenty.
	On the 14th of June 1798, this city was
stormed by Napoleon Bonaparte and taken.
On the 21st of March 1801, at the battle
of Alexandria when the French under
Menou were defeated, Sir Ralph Aber-
crombie was mortally wounded; and on
the 28th of August following, the French
garrison yielded to the British, under the
command of General Hutchinson. 
				JULIA A. DRUCE.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
SILK WORM EGGS.

	CAN be obtained at the Utah Woman’s
Silk Commission Salt Lake City upon ap-
plication to Mrs. Margaret A. Caine. The
Legislature appropriated $3000 for the
silk industry in this State, which should
call forth our best energies in this direction
as it is a profitable industry in which wo-
men and children can engage and also
make very remunerative. The time is now
upon us, the mulberry is leafing out and I
hope all those wishing to engage in this
business will see to it at once and provide
suitable places for the hatching of the
worms. I believe it would be beneficial for
ladies to co-operate and work in a syste-
matic and business manner, thereby insur-
ing a greater success—probably some one
could offer a suitable and convenient place
to be used as a cocoonery for hatching the
worms, and likewise supervise it, while
young people could gather, prepare and
furnish the leaves for feeding, which must
be done regularly and promptly. The
work is not laborious and when engaged in
becomes a delight as one’s interest is called
out in watching the progress and develop-
ment of some of the creatures of God. One
of the main things to be considered is the
evenness of temperature and the leaves ten-
der and of the proper moisture. There are
pamphlets furnished free with full and suf-
ficient instructions for the successful raising

[Column 2]
of silk—so any one can go right to work 
and with proper attention, be well 
repaid for the labor or the time they give.
	A reeler is employed by the State to
teach the art of reeling which is not difficult
and can be and has been done upon the
old-fashioned spinning wheels; but reeling
and not spinning is desired. A twenty-
five cent bounty is given on each pound of
good cocoons, and the reeling is performed
where one hundred pounds are raised; this
industry with method and attention for six
weeks can be made quite lucrative. A
club of ladies in Springville last year made a
grand success and feel very much encouraged.
What is there to hinder other ladies doing
so? I would say profit by their example,
take this as an incentive and “go thou and
do likewise.” Do not let a lack of energy 
be a stumbling block to you but arise and
follow out the counsel of the Prophet Brig-
ham Young; he gave a great impetus to 
this industry and expended thousands of
dollars upon it. 
	A Mrs. Dunyon and her family insix
weeks raised seven hundred pounds of
cocoons and this County paid two dollars
per pound for a large growth of cocoons,
and we sent some to Washington, D. C.
and received $1.25 per pound for them,
Congress furnishing free labels for trans-
portation. By having your cocoons reeled
up, you thus have your silk in a market-
able condition which will net you a nice
sum, or it can be woven into dress goods
of which you could be justly proud.
Home manufacture is the watchword now
as heretofore and whereby a nation can be-
come independant. We expect to see this
enterprise fully established; the climate is
nowhere better adapted for the cultivation
of silk.
	The Japanese have proven and acknowl-
edge this, our native silk is pronounced by
experts to be of the best texture. The
loom belonging to our Association was
woven upon at the World’s, as well as our
own Territorial Fair. We have fabric on
hand all silk and have sold four dress pat-
terns, poplin, woolen warp with native
silk filling. Our Silk Flag woven Kersey
14x8 is made entirely of native silk; but
we should go on to greater success and per-
fection. All that we need is proper machin-
ery to work up and give lustre to our silk,
and I am sanguine that means will be
forthcoming to this end. Speed the day is
the desire of, 
					M. A. TILL,
President Utah Co. Silk Association.


THE Princess of Wales has written to the
Lord Mayor of London, pointing out that
in the schemes to commemorate Queen
Victoria’s diamond jubilee, the poorest of
the poor, the tenants of the London slums,
have been overlooked. She says: “Might 
I plead that, they also shall have, a share in
the fetes of that blessed day, and so remem-
ber to the end of their lives that great and
good queen whose reign, by the blessing 
of God, has been prolonged for sixty years?
Let us, therefore, provide these unfortunate
ones, these beggars and outcasts, with a
dinner or some substantial meal during the
week of the jubilee commemoration. I
have great pleasure in heading a subscrip-
tion list for the purpose with £100.”
	CHICAGO University has received from
Mrs. Mary Esther Reynolds a gift of
$225,000.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


ONE YEAR AGO.

I.
“Come spend with me this happy day,
	For I’m again a bride;
And through the changing scenes of life
	We still stand side by side;
We still clasp hands as long ago,
	When youthful dreams were ours
And Life seemed one long holiday,
	To spent ’mid leafy bowers.
Come, come my friends who love me,
	Come comrades of the Past,
And spend with me this joyous day,
	For O, it chance may be the last,
For backward as I gaze and think
	I see the road is long,
Since sixty years ago today,
	We pledged our vows ’mid solemn song.”
II
Yes it was a gladsome scene,
	To see you dear, a happy bride.
A youthful look upon your face,
	Your bridegroom by your side;
The frosts of Time had lightly touched,
	Your hands that were so fair,
But threads of gray were braided in,
	Among your once dark hair,
Proud sons and daughters stood around,
	Your earthly bliss to crown,
And deeper were your joys that day,
	Than when your hair was brown.
III.
“One Year Ago!” All things are changed,
	Though my bridal day again has come;
For o’er Life’s portal you have crossed,
	And I sit today alone.
I reach my hand to yours, my love,
	As I did a year ago,
But I cannot feel your answering clasp,
	That always thrilled me so,
No, you are gone and I am left,
	Ah, it were better so,
The groom must fit the wedding nest,
	For his loving bride to go.
And so I wait the wedding feast,
	As in the Long Ago,
When we pledged our lives forever,
	Though ages come and go.
And I am still your loving bride.
	Though you so weary grown,
Are resting now on the hillside
	Beneath a gray white stone.
IV
But our wedding day will come again,
	Never more to wane;
And soon your hand will close o’er mine,
	To never part again.
I hear the song-birds singing
	Among the leafy bowers,
And a fragrance rare fills the balmy air,
	From the many dainty flowers.
It is our garden plot of “Home,”
	Where you by the wicket gate,
Keep watch for the loved who tarry long—
	For the evening groweth late.
Again I come a youthful bride,
	To the kingdom you have made for me,
And see! I bring our children too, dear,
	To keep through all eternity.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
	A tender thought of my friend, Mrs. M. Isabella
Horne.
	May 9, 1897.


U. W. P. C.

	THE U. W. P. C. held its regular
meeting April 30, 1897, at the office of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT. President Fox
called the meeting to order at 8 p. m.


After prayer by Mrs. Lydia Alder, the roll
was called members responding with orig-
inal sentiments. Minutes of last meeting
were read and approved.
	Under the head of business was an in-
formal discussion in regard to change of
time of annual meeting of Federation of
clubs. At the request of the Federation
Entertainment committee the names of
those who will assist in entertaining Feder-
ation guests were given. Mrs. Dickinson
being unable to act as delegate from the
Press Club, Dr. Curtis was appointed in
her place. Resignation of Miss S. L.
Munroe as a member of the club was read
and accepted.
	Program of the evening:—“Life of Lin-
coln,” Mrs. Phebe C. Young. ‘‘Social
Life in Washington,” Mrs. Brown.
	The next meeting of the club will be
May 29, 8 p. m. at usual place. The war
between Greece and Turkey will be the
topic for discussion. Sentiments from
N. P. Willis.
		ORIELLE CURTIS, Sec’y.


[Column 1]
BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH.

SISTER RUTH WELTON TYLER
	WHO departed this life April 14, 1897,
after an illness of only three days.
	She was the daughter of Asa and Clarissa
Norton Welton; was born in Spafford,
Onondaga Co., New York, February 25,
1820, and was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in the 
same place, January 1832, by Elder Jared
Carter. She was the first of her family to
embrace the Gospel. She moved to Kirt-
land, Ohio with her parents in 1834 or
1835. She was married to her life-long 
companion, Daniel Tyler, September 11,
1836, and emigrated to Far West, Caldwell
Co., Mo., arriving August 3, 1837; was 
expelled from that place under the extermi-
nating order of Governor Lilburn W.
Boggs, February 13, 1839. She went to
Illinois where her daughter, the late Parin-
tha O. Oakden, was born June 4, of the 
same year. Moved to Nauvoo about 1842
where she became a member of the first Re-
lief Society organized by Joseph Smith,
the Prophet. With her little family she
was expelled from Nauvoo in the spring of 
1846. Afterwards left on the road in an
Indian country while her husband enlisted
in the Mormon Battalion and went to fight
the battles of his country. Another child
was born to her in that place. After the
Battalion was disbanded her husband re-
turned for her, and they arrived in Salt
Lake Valley November 18, 1848. She
was called with her husband to Dixie in
1862, where they suffered all the privations
and sickness from chills and fever incident
to settling that country. They were re-
leased and called to Beaver in the spring
of 1866, where she resided until her death. 
	Brother Tyler has filled various missions
during which Sister Tyler mainly support-
ed her family by her own labor. She
joined the Relief Society when it was first
organized in Beaver. Soon after she be-
came a teacher, subsequently counselor to
two presidents. June 16, 1876, she was
chosen president, which office she held for
several years. Again December 6, 1886, 
she was chosen president and faithfully ful-
filled the duties of that office until she was
released to take the position of President of
the Relief Society of Beaver Stake, March
5, 1897.

[Column 2]
	During her presidency of the Relief Soci-
ety two rock buildings were erected, one a
hall and store, the other a granary capable
of holding about eight thousand bushels of
grain; the latter building costing sixteen
hundred dollars.
	Impressions she received in early life
caused her to be religiously inclined.
When she was only five years old her 
mother was taken very sick. The little
Ruth went by herself and prayed that her
mother might get well. Her prayer was
answered, her mother recovering almost
immediately. At nine years of age she
joined the Methodist church, but would not
receive baptism unless she could be im-
mersed. After considerable discussion she
carried the point, and was baptized by im-
mersion, although it was contrary to the 
general practice in that church at that
time.
	She was the mother of fourteen children,
only three of whom survive her. She was
an active public worker, one who was ready 
and willing to respond to every call; her
whole soul was in the work from the time
she was baptized until the day of her death.
A devoted mother and faithful companion,
a friend to the needy, comforting the sick
and administering to their necessities.
She was faithful in this life and has gone to
receive the reward of the righteous.
RESOLUTIONS.
	Adopted by the officers and members of the
Beaver ward Relief Society.
	WHEREAS, It has p eased God to ca l from our
midst our beloved president and co-worker, Sis-
ter Ruth Tyler; therefore be i
	RESOLVED, That we deeply mourn her
loss, and most sincerely sympathize with
her family and friends and ask God to comfort
them.
	RESOLVED, That her death has caused a vacan-
cy we know not how to fill; but we realize that
our loss is her gain, [-]nd that God doeth all things
well, and that [-]e must be resigned to His will.
	RESOLVED, That a copy f this sketch and
resolutions be placed upon our record book, one
given to the bereaved family, and one sent to the 
WOMAN'S EXPONENT for publication.

Gone from our midst, our sister, friend, departed,
	Deep in our hearts we feel the sad, sad pain;
We’ll ne’er forget her, true and noblehearted,
	But cherish we the hope to meet again.

Gone from our midst, but memory serves to
	lighten
	Grief that is fervent, for her ki dly life–
Emblem of goodness; seemed to ever brighten
	Scenes of affliction, woe, or angry strife.

Gone from our midst, this life will no more greet
	her,
	But in her home in heavenly glory land,
She is rejoicin ’mid the loved who meet her,
	Resting in peace among the angel band.
			JANE BICKLEY, President.
			LOUISSA W. JONES, Secretary.


GRAND EXCURSION EAST VIA
UNION PACIFIC SYSTEM

	Round trip tickets on sale June 5, 6 and
7, good for return until Sep. 5th as follows:
Kansas City, Leavenworth, St. Joseph,
Omaha, Sioux City and return		$30.00
St. Louis and return				37.50
Chicago and return					42.50
	Only line operating through equipment to
above points consisting of Pullman Palace
and Tourist Sleepers, Dining Cars, Buffet
Smoking and Library Cars, Free Reclining
Chair Cars. Twelve hours quickest time
to Chicago. Call at 201 Main St. for fur-
her information.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT, 
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY MAY 15, 1897


TWENTY-FIVE YEARS.

	OUR readers and patrons will remember
perhaps that this issue of the EXPONENT
completes the twenty-fifth year of this
little periodical. One quarter of a century
since the paper was established and during
that time how much has transpired here
and elsewhere, and how many important
events and incidents have been recorded in
the volumes published since June 1, 1872,
the date of its establishment. Many of
those who were anxious to have a woman’s
paper here in Zion have passed away and
 are no longer known among us, another
generation has taken their places and yet
their counsel, their words live still in the
remembrance of those who knew
them personally. Had the people followed
the advice of President Brigham Young
through whose wise counsel this paper as
well as many other home enterprises were
started, this state and the people as a whole
would have been much more prosperous
and independent than they are at the present
time.
	President Young was very anxious the
women of Utah should have a paper of
their own in which to express their views
and opinions on all subjects relating to wo-
man’s progression, higher education and
advancement along all lines that would
tend to correct evil, to uplift the fallen, to
support the best methods of dealing with all
practical questions pertaining to humanity.
   We do not care to repeat what we have
often said before that there are many things
the women of Utah have done, which
never would have been so successfully ac-
complished had it not been for the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT as a reference and to
collect material from. We need this paper
now to further home interests particularly
and especially the silk industry, which lan-
guishes for the lack of enterprise and reliable
information in regard to what is being done
from time to time. Without going into de-
tails it seems to the writer that for the wo-
men of this state not to maintain, a wo-
man’s paper, would be not only a hind-
rance to progress but a positive calamity.
Brigham Young strongly urged upon the
women of Utah to take this paper, to read it
and to keep it, as it would be a record of
woman’s work and of their history; and
we are most anxious that all who feel an
interest in the growth of sentiment in favor
of home protection, home interests and in-
dustries should help by their subscriptions,
patronage and influence to maintain a paper,


that has done and is doing so much to help
women in organization and in everything
tending to the higher elements of life,
moral, spiritual, industrial and educational.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MRS. CHARLES HENROTIN of Chicago, 
President of the Woman’s Clubs. is ex-
pected to attend the meeting of the State
Federation of Clubs, and will probably
make an address on Wednesday evening
May 26,—Mrs. Platt, Mrs. Thather and
Mrs. Gale of Denver will also be present and
they also will address the Federation.
	THE Annual Convention of the State
Federation of clubs will be held May 26
and 27 in the Congregational Church, corner
1st South and 4th East in this city, Mrs.
Martha B. Jennings President. Meetings
will commence 10 a. m. and 2 p. m. and
on Thursday evening, May 27, at 8 o’clock
there will be a reception at the residencee of
Mrs. W. A. Nelden, 1145 E. First South.
Papers by women of literary culture will be
given and questions of importance to club
women as well as to the public will be dis-
cussed. It is hopefully expected that it
will be interesting and instructing in the
best sense of the word.
	THE Hall of Relics to be erected immedi-
ately on the dear old Council House corner
will be a great improvement to the appear-
ance of the locality. The place is con-
spicuous and will give a good opportunity
for display. The plans were drawn by
Dallas and Hedges and the building will
be a reproduction of the famous temple of
Zenus at Olympia, and if the plan is car-
ried out will be “a thing of beauty” as
the Corinthian columns will give an ap-
pearance of strength and the Greek style
in building is the admiration of all lovers
of art in architecture. The outside is to be
dazzlingly white, while the inside will be
decorated in the high colors of the Jubilee.
Then the pedestal in front of the building
will be a reproduction of Dallin’s "Signal
of Peace,” the same as that which appear-
ed at the World’s Fair in Chicago; this is
appropriate too as Dallin was Utah born
and of course the State may claim some
honor of his achievements.


[Column 1]
THREE QUARTERS OF A CENTRUY.

BATHSHEBA W. SMlTH.
	WE do not hesitate to speak of Sister
Bathsheba as one of the most eminent wo-
men in the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints, and also as one of the
most exemplary. It is something to be
thankful for to have lived so many years,
and to be able to look back upon the record
one has made and feel almost, if not quite
satisfied with one’s life work.
	Sister Smith’s seventy-fifth birthday
anniversary was celebrated at the residence
of her eldest grand-daughter, Mrs. D. R.
Allen, in Forest Dale on Monday, May
3. About seventy-five invited guests were
present, most of them relatives of the
honored lady. She was handsomely dressed
in black silk with elegant real lace, and
wore roses and white carnations; she has a
commanding figure and on this occasion
looked every inch a queen. Sister Smith
has had a happy life as she herself testifies
notwithstanding the persecutions and hard

[Column 2]
ships the saints have had to endure of
which she had a share. She married when
quite a girl in her teens, George A. Smith,
cousin of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and
they were always devoted lovers to the
time of his death. They accepted
the principle of plural marriage, and
made a success of its practise.
	Sister Smith’s maiden name was Bigler
and she was born and grew to womanhood
in West Virginia, and has always retained
her love for the South, its customs and its
people. In her youth she was a famous
equestrienne, accounting it as one of her
valued accomplishments.
	The greatest sorrow of her life was the
untimely death of her only son who was
killed by the Indians in Southern Utah
and his body was never recovered. She
bore this great affliction with the heroic
fortitude and sublimity of a Saint, never
repining or murmuring, but calm and
patient, believing that her Father in heaven
knew what was best.
	At the time of the decease of her noble
husband, she felt she too must die, but
when he expressed a wish that she should
live to bear testimony of the truth and of
the mission of Joseph the Prophet, she felt
determined to carry out his counsel. She
has been a careful, patient and devoted
housewife, and has had many opportunities
of practicing the strictest economy. Ac-
cording to Scripture "She seeketh wool and
flax and worketh willingly with her hands.”
	In the primitive days here she did a great
deal of spinning, dyeing and weaving, and
clothed her household with her own handi-
work. Time or space will not permit us
to tell of her many virtues and her industry,
nor of her travelings and journeyings, but
we can truthfully say she has been favored
of the Lord, and that she is deserving of
the many precious privileges and honors
she has received.
	On this special occasion she was the re-
cipient of many floral offerings and of
other gifts of dear friends, which we are
sure she appreciated because of the sisterly
love, friendliness and esteem of which they
were only a trifling expression.
	Sister Smith is second Vice-President
in the National Woman’s Relief Society,
an organization that extends around the
world, and she has occupied various other
positions of honor and trust among women.
At present she officiates in the Salt Lake
Temple, a position for which she is admir-
ably well fitted.
	Apostle John Henry Smith made the ad-
dress of welcome at the birthday celebra-
tion and certainly was eloquent and de-
lightfully happy in his speech. He paid a
high tribute of praise to the one we had
assembled to honor, as a true woman
mother and friend, and a mother in Israel
and a noble example to the Daughters of
Zion; his remarks were followed by the let-
ter given here.
SALT LAKE CITY, April 3, 1897
	My Dear Aunt Bathsheba:
	For some time I have been doting upon at-
tending the reunion of loved ones, kindred and
friends in honor of the seventy-fifth anniversary
of your birth, but Providence has willed it other-
wise; orrather, my physical condition is such that
prudence and the counsel of Dr. Richards will
prevent me from doing so.
	I therefore take this method of expressing re-
grets for my deprivation, and most earnest desire
for the happiness of all who shall gather around
you this evening to do honor to the loved and
worthy object of their affections, in cherished


[Column 1]
memory of, and in gratitude for your auspicious,
natal day.
	Your life has been one of constant energy,
fraught with toil and sacrifice of personal comfort,
and mixed with plentiful sorrow. Along its way
are strewn the personal remains of a darling son,
cut down in his very youth by ruthless savage
hands; of a beloved and loving and honored
husband, who untimely fell beneath the over-
whelming weight of multiplied responsibilities, in
the very midday of an eventful, noble, useful,
wellnigh indispensable life; and of the martyred
brothers and kinsman of your lamented husband
—whose martyrdom sealed their testimony to the
divine and deathless truth which lies at the 
foundation of the cause of Zion, for which you have
endured so much. And yet, your life has been
full of good works, and true womanly deeds,
with real Christian patience, and with love divine, 
the crowning virtues of a well spent, virtuous,
generous life.
	I regard you as a most worthy companion of a 
most noble man—one of the anointed and
chosen of God.
	In this and in the assurance your knowledge of
the Gospel gives—of an eternal companionship
with him, and a glorious reunion with the great-
est spirits of the greatest epoch of the world, and 
association with Christ and God the Father of all
—in the worlds to come you have the surest
promise of most glorious rewards, which so far 
outweigh the deepest trials of this life that they
will be forgotten, or, if remembered at all, only
as the purifying flames of the furnace which help
to consume the dross and purify the gold.
	Aunt Bathsheba, we wish you many, very
many most happy returns of this day. Not only 
this, but that every day between shall be full of
peace and joy and honor to you and yours.
	You have our confidence, our prayers, our love.
We know you to be worthy of all, and more than
we can give, or offer you: and all is yours; we
feel that you have made your calling and election
sure.
	God bless you in this world with health, judg-
ment, peace, joy and plenty, and in the world to
come with all that has been promised you, and
more, are the sincere desires of your affectionate
kinsman and, I trust, unfailing friend, 
					JOSEPH F. SMITH.
	After the reading of President Smith’s let-
ter Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne, granddaughter
of Sister Smith, gave a brief sketch of her
grandmother, giving interesting experiences
from her early life and also her connection
and association with the Church up to the 
present time. Among other notable things
we were particularly struck with the
amount of homemade cloth made by this
diligent housewife, wool carded, spun,
colored and woven—and cut and made into
wearing apparel, also flax and so much of
it, that the story seems incredible to those
who live in this later day. To create from
the raw material suitable clothing seems a
desirable handicraft, and we look back with 
admiration upon the heroic women who
had the sublime courage to overcome ob-
stacles, and meet the emergencies of pion-
eer days in a new land far from civilization.
	A synopsis of Sister Smith’s work in
women’s organizations, beginning with
the Relief Society in Nauvoo, by Mrs. 
Clarissa Smith Williams also a daughter of 
President George A. Smith. Sister B. W.
Smith was one of the original members of 
the Relief Society and was present when it
was organized on the 17th of March 1842, in
the Masonic Hall in Nauvoo, Illinois, and
she has held different offices in the Society
since that time. At present she is second
Vice-President to the President, Sister Zina
D. H. Young, and Treasurer of the same
Society in the Salt Lake Stake of Zion.
	Then followed the charming address
from her only daughter, Mrs. Bathsheba
Smith Merrill.
MOTHER.
 	If there is one mortal feeling free from 
the impurities of earthly faith, that tells in

[Column 2]
every breath of its celestial origin it is a
mother’s love.
	Mother is our helper, adviser- listening
to tales of fancied wrongs and sorrows.
	Mother—’tis the first half formed word
that falls from the babbling tongue: The
first, the fondest and the most lasting tie in
which affection can bind the heart. A
mother’s love. Forever the same, un-
changeable.
	A pure and holy gift from heaven.
Mother’s love soothes with sympathy.
What a comfort it was to feel her sympathy
for my near sightedness. How patiently
and tenderly she lightened my misfortune,
anticipating every wish, attending to all
my needs, soothing every sorrow.
	She cradles us in her warm, faithful
breast and there is a healing influence in
her embrace.
	When at home or absent from her side I
know her thoughts were ever concerned in
my welfare, and also the welfare of my
children.
	Every day I appreciate more the bless-
ing of a fond and noble mother. She has 
been a mother not only to her own off-
spring and her husband’s children, but to 
her sisters and brothers children. Yes a 
mother in Israel! And we all love, re-
spect and reverence her.
	She has trodden the narrow path and
now reaches the landmark—her seventyfifth
birthday, and we feel that we cannot do
enough to show our love and appreciation
of her. She is unsurpassed on this earth-
	A mother’s love, how sweet the name,
		What is a mother's love?
	A noble, pure and tender flame,
		Enkindled from above.
			BATHSHEBA SMITH MERRILL.
	After the program had been rendered
there were short speeches congratulatory
and affectionate, one by Mrs. Julina L.
Smith was distinctively tender and brought
tears to the eyes of many of those who
heard it. Sister Julina is the niece of Sis-
ter Bathsheba and had spent many years
of her young life with her aunt, so that to
her she is a second mother.
	President Zina D. H. Young spoke very
eloquently of her intimate association with
Sister Smith. Other speakers were Sister
Emily P. Young and Sister E. B.
Wells, Brother John R. Winder and
Patriarch John Smith, who touched upon
his early remembrances of the lady in
whose honor we had met together, which
were quite in keeping with the occasion.
Sister Smith responded (to the invitation of
Apostle John Henry Smith) in a graceful
and appropriate way, expressing her sincere
love to all who had in any way contributed
to her happines on this day—and referred
to the numerous circle of relatives and
friends who could not participate in the
affair, bore testimony of the divine mission
of Joseph Smith and her firm belief in all
he taught; alluded lovingly to her hus-
band’s patriarchal family and made many
suggestive remarks that will be remembered
by her young friends in years to come.
	The party joined in singing “Hard
times come again no more,” and Miss Pris-
cella Smith gave a very pleasing recitation
entitled “The Barber and the Stuffed
Owl.” Delicious refreshments were served
tastefully and bountifully by loving hands,
during which time social conversation was
indulged in, and soon after as daylight was
merging into twilight, the guests who

[Column 3]
lived at a distance began to say their
adieux. In the evening there was a liter-
ary and musical program with which to
wind up a very happy day.
	The EXPONENT adds congratulations
and good wishes to Sister Smith. Words
are inadequate to express the desire we
have for her future welfare and prosperity.
The beautiful work she performs in the 
Temple, and added to that the philan-
thropic and charitable labor in the Relief
Society are indeed appropriate for one who
has lived so long, and passed through so
many sanctifying experiences.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CONCERT IN WASHINGTON, D. C.
	VIOLA PRATT, one of our Utah girls
and sweet singers, was selected from
among a number of other vocalists to sing
at President and Mrs. McKinley’s concert
in Washington, given in honor of the 
Russian Ambassador.  It was on the birth-
day anniversary of the Austrian Ambassa-
dor’s wife.  Viola Pratt, it will be remem-
bered by our readers, is the grand daughter
of the late Apostle Orson Pratt on the
paternal side and of Apostle Charles C.
Rich on the maternal side.  Utah has
every reason to be proud of her attainment
as a vocalist and there is no doubt a bril-
liant future in store for her.  Below is an
extract from a letter to her parents.—Editor
	“*** Now I must tell you about the
concert given by President and Mrs.
McKinley and the cabinet in honor of the
Austrian Ambassador.  It was a very
select affair, three hundred invitations being
issued to the Senators etc. Huberman, the
wonderful boy violinist, was there, and so
was Scharvenka the pianist, and I was fortu-
nate enough to be the soloist.  Everything
was perfectly glorious !  I was treated like
a queen.  President and Mrs. McKinley,
lots of the Senators, and all the diplomatic
corps were there.  The concert was very
fine and I was highly complimented on my
singing and the papers spoke very nicely of
me.  The next morning after the concert,
there came to my hotel a small package and
a note from the wife of the Austrian
Ambassador, asking me to accept the en-
closed as a token of her “esteem and love
and appreciation of the pleasure she had re-
ceived through my beautiful singing.’’  I
opened it and was indeed delighted to find
a very handsome gold bracelet with the
date of the concert engraved on the inside.
	About nine o’clock she sent her lovely
carriage around to the hotel and gave me a
lovely drive all over Washington.
	At noon I had luncheon at the White
House.  Mrs. McKinley is a very sweet,
lovely woman, but so delicate and frail.


AN INTERESTING TRIP. 

Editor Exponent:

	THINKING the work of the Relief Soci-
ety in Snowflake Stake ought to be occa-
sionally represented in your columns, I
take pleasure in penning the following re-
tort of a recent visit to the branches of the
pociety in the forest. 
	Our party consisted of Stake President
Emma S. Smith, Vice-President Sarah
Driggs and Mary J. West the Secretary,
and Joseph Robinson as driver. Sending
our appointments ahead we lelt home the
22nd of April to fill them.


[Column 1]
Our first appointment was at Pinedale,
eighteen miles from Snowflake. Arizona
is noted for its windy days but this was one
of the very worst. The wind blew direct-
ly in our faces making it disagreeable for
us and hard pulling for the horses.
	Meeting was to begin at 2 o’clock so we
drove to Mrs. Dalton’s where the sisters
were already assembling. Mrs. Brewer
had prepared dinner for us but when she
saw we were late she concluded we had
dined somewhere else and so came on to
meeting. The house was as clean as
whitewash and scrubbing brushes could
make it, but when Mrs. Dalton found out
how cold we were she removed her fire-
board and soon had a blazing fire, before
which we gradually thawed out. In the
meantime Sister Brewer discovered that we
were hungry as well as cold, and brought
us some warm dinner. After having eaten
quite heartily we felt more like mission-
aries and proceeded with the meeting.
	The organization there was quite complete
and the sisters seemed to be alive to their
duties. They are starting a LITTLE STORE
which they hope will aid them financially.
A baby was taken seriously ill during the
meeting, and prayers were offered for the
little sufferer which we feel our Father in
heaven has deigned to answer.
	After meeting we drove over to Bishop
Peterson’s which is a mile and a half from
the town. Here we were very kindly
entertained by Sister Peterson.
	Besides Relief Society work we were de-
sirous of doing something in regard to wo-
man’s suffrage as well, and with this ob-
ject in view held a meeting in the evening.
	Bishop Peterson was feeling very poorly
still he treated us with great consideration
and seemed pleased with our visit.
	The next morning after breakfast we 
started for Linden six miles distant, our 
appointment being for 10 a. m. The ride
through the tall pines was extremely
pleasant, but notwithstanding that fact it
seemed a very long six miles. The reason
became evident as we neared the town 
which proved to be Adair and not Linden,
which thus lengthened our drive into 
twelve miles. We had taken the wrong 
road.
	The word that we were coming had not
been circulated so we concluded to visit
that Society on our return and drove on to
Woodland, a distance of sixteen miles.
	This quiet little nook is pleasantly
located among the pines. The farmers de-
pend upon the rainfall to moisten their 
land which we were told is very fertile.
We stopped with Bishop Hansen and he
caused us to open our eyes in astonishment
when he told of the great amount of vege-
tables he raised last year, his son he said,
was equally successful with wheat. Even
lucern does well there although it requires
so much water. There are good facilities
for reservoirs and the people think the out-
look for the future is very good.
	As our party was large some of us were
invited to sleep at other places. The Bishop
kindly proffered to act as guide saying that
two blocks away we would find accommo-
dation. Before reaching the place des-
ignated, Sister West grew very weary and
remarked, “Why Bishop I understood you
to say it was only two blocks to your son’s
house.” “So I did,” he replied, “two
forty acre blocks.”
	The next day we held meeting in the
school room at 10 a. m. A Relief Society

[Column 2]
was organized and every one made a few
remarks. The Bishop, who by the way, is
amiable and good as a man can well be,
was present and Sister Smith was led to
prophecy many grand things concerning
him. If the good spirit ever flowed freely
in a meeting it certainly did in this one,
and it was indeed a spiritual feast.
	Two miles from Woodlands is Pinetop
where we were due at 3 o’clock, but oh,
how we were shaken before we reached
there! The road was rough and the over-
hanging boughs came nearly taking off the
carriage cover.
	Pinetop is a larger place than we ex-
pected to find, still it does not rival New
York. There are several families living
there who do not belong to the Church, but
we found a number of sisters who appeared
to be firm in the faith. Their president
had moved away and they desired a re-
organization. This was accomplished with
apparent satiefication to all. Sister West
gave a model sermon to beginners in the
work, and timely instructions were added
by Sisters Smith and Driggs.
	Leaving there as soon as meeting was
over we next wended our way to Ellsworth.
If we had been shaken while going to Pine-
top, we were re-shaken while leaving there,
although part of the way was very fine.
	It was after dark when we reached our
destination, but Mrs. Mary A. Ellsworth
had a fire in her cozy sitting room and such
a nice supper prepared that we thought
traveling was not so bad after all. Our
hostess had a presentiment that we would
be tired, and with her usual thoughtful-
ness for others, had invited the sisters to
meet at her home and save us the long
walk.
	The organization there was complete and
the sisters doing as well as they could un-
der the circumstances.
	The next morning we visited the Sab-
bath School, then took dinner with Mrs.
Nellie Merrell whose house was as neat as
the one we had just left, and immediately
started to Adair where we arrived at 2
o’clock. Our faces and wraps were cover-
ed with dust but we converted our handker-
chiefs into brushes, and after using them
vigorously for a few moments went into
meeting. After the sacrament was admin-
istered the time was given to our party
who recovered from their astonishment
sufficiently to make the meeting a very
interesting one. Here also we found the
organization complete, but as the houses
are very much scattered it is difficult for
the sisters to meet except in pleasant
weather.
	In the evening we held a suffrage meet-
ing which was well attended. We were
hospitably entertained by Sister Brady un-
til the next morning.
	As we had missed Linden going up we
concluded to try once more to find it. As
before we took the wrong road but were
overtaken by a boy who directed us to the
right one, where we jogged along merrily
enough until we reached the place. This
was our last meeting but by no means the
least as far as the pleasure went. The sis-
ters were all feeling well in the Gospel.
One or two officers were needed, which
were promptly voted in and valuable in-
structions were given by Sister Smith and
ourselves. Sister Driggs dwelt especially
upon punctuality in whatever we under-
take.
	The meeting over we were invited to dif-

[Column 3]
ferent places to dinner, and came away
with a good opinion of Linden cooks. It
was raining when we left but it soon clear-
ed up and we reached home in safety, find-
ing all well.
	We had been gone five days, traveled
nearly one hundred miles and held nine
meetings. We feel very grateful indeed
for the good feeling with which we were
everywhere received, and trust our friends
will be amply repaid for their kindness
to us. 
	Whether any good seed was sown re-
mains to be seen, but of this we are confi-
dent that the blessings of the Lord were
showered abundantly upon us during our
absence.
		DELLA FISH, Stake Sec., R. S.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

UTAH STAKE.
	THE Relief Society of Utah Stake con-
vened at American Fork, April 30, 1897,
President Mary John presiding. Sister E.
B. Wells and L. John Nuttall were on the
stand, visitors with the presiding officers.
Meeting opened by singing “Joy to the
world;” prayer by Brother Nuttall; sing-
ing “Arise, arise with joy survey;” min-
utes of last conference read and approved.
	President Mary John was pleased to
meet with the sisters and to see so full an
attendance. “We have many things to
lay before you, and have special visitors.”
Felt we should have a time of rejoicing to-
gether and desired the Spirit of the Lord to
assist us.
	Sister Elizabeth Giles, First ward Provo,
said their ward was united, they relieved
the wants of the needy. Sister Marsh,
President Alpine, said “We are few in
number but the sisters respond to the calls
cheerfully.”
	Sister Wadley, President Pleasant Grove
Third ward, said “We meet semi-monthly
and in various parts of the ward, whereby
we get a better attendance. We gather
storage wheat, and make and sell quilts to
have cash in the treasury.”
	Sister Houtz, Fourth ward Springville,
said “We are doing comparatively well
but not so well as we might. We made a
carpet for our ward house and laid it; we
are getting up a Fair to help build and ex-
pect the ward to help us build; afterwards
we shall gather wheat. We should work
in the silk indnstry and help make it a suc-
cess." 
	Sister M. A. Till, President Utah Silk
Association, encouraged the sisters to take
a greater interest in producing silk. Told
of her visit to the Republican Radies Silk
Club in Springville, of their satisfactory
success the first year’s trial, and how sys-
tematically they conducted all the details
of their club. Said Miss Pyper, of Salt
Lake City, who is employed by the State,
taught them to reel, they having raised
one hundred pounds of cocoons which en-
titled them to this, as also the bounty of
twenty-five cents per pound on good
cocoons. Their club has placed fifty dol
lars in the bank as a result of their efforts.
The speaker thought the whole of Utah
could surely do more than this. “Let us
unite energetically in raising cocoons, we
can get the eggs free from the Utah Wo-
man’s Silk Commission, Salt Lake City,
made possible by an appropriation of three
thousand dollars by the Legislature; it is a
very remunerative enterprise and women


[Column 1]
ad children can engage in it.”
	Sister E. B. Wells recommended the 
raising of cocoons, the eggs and pamphlet
of instructions are furnished by the Com-
mission for which apply to Mrs. Margaret
A. Caine, Secretary, Salt Lake City; she is
working through the State in the silk in-
terest. The sisters of Cache are doing a
good work in silk, and intend exhibiting at
the Fair; they have material for dress goods
all silk. Sister Woodbury of St. George
has an excellent article on silk published
in the EXPONENT. Sister Barber of Cache
is a very successful worker in silk; it is an
industry in which women and children can
engage profitably. Spoke at some length
and gave much encouragement upon this
industry.
	Sister Tanner, Second ward Payson,
reported they were assisting to build
a meeting house, and had furnished
a large quantity of carpet for the same.
“We are doing a good work in our Society
duties.”
	Sister Frances Cluff, Pleasant View,
Provo said “We hold our regular meeting
on fast day and have a semi-monthly meet-
ing, we send aids to the different associa-
tions which we find a help. I hope the
Lord will continue to bless us.”
	President Rebecca Standring of Lehi said
“We endeavor to do the best we can; we
meet on a Monday and have an attendance
of from seventy to eighty and sometimes 
one hundred. We enjoy a good spirit
some of the young sisters meet with us,
our wheat is in good condition.” Hoped
the sisters would raise cocoons, it is not
hard or obnoxious work, she took quite a
delight in it, had sllk she wished woven for
a dress. Bore her testimony to the truth of
our holy religion, etc.
	President Martha Simons, Payson First
ward, reported they had about one hun-
dred members in their Society. “We
have given considerable relief to those in
need, we have about six hundred bushels of
wheat on hand.” Spoke encouragingly of
the silk.
	Brother John Nuttall said many good
things. “Reports have been given, and Sis-
ter Wells informs me the silk interest comes
under the auspices of the Relief Society
which I commend. In regard to the sis-
ters of the Relief Society assisting to build
ward houses, it is expected they perform
their own affairs and business under the
guidance of the Priesthood, so whatever
you launch out in, such as storing grain,
relieving the poor or raising silk, comes
under your own province; I want the
world to know what we are doing in these
industries. Our missionaries go to preach
the Gospel and our women delegates go to
the nations to explain the great and good
work we are doing; ladies of the world are
astonished at the vast work we do. Silk
reeling and not spinning is desired; I wish
this industry widely known.” Told of the
impetus President Brigham Young gave it.
“The braiding of straw has gone into dis-
use since finer goods are imported, this
should not be the case; work in these
things and do so under the auspices of the
Relief Society that being the oldest organ-
ization for women among us. I intended
presenting matters of our legal organization
but will call a special meeting for this pur-
pose as there is not a full representation
from each Society in the County present. 
Some sisters think we have inaugurated a
new order of business but it is mainly to

[Column 2]
establish a better method to transact busi-
ness, and to hold the position as the first or-
ganization of women in the Church, and to
make your property secure. The Mutual
Improvement and Sunday Schools and
Primaries are later organizations; they are
making progress and advancement. Are
you my sisters making strides commen-
surate with the object in view? Do not
lose ground but advance whenever you can,
and wake up to attend your Conferences
and work in harmony throughout the
State. I do not think this Society pro-
gresses as much as it could if you were
more earnest. I wish the sisters to write
down questions they desire to ask, and a
place will be appointed to this end that you
can gain information on subjects pertaining
to your Society; attend the call and show
an interest in these matters. I do not
want the sisters to build meeting houses,
but get the brethren to assist you in your
undertakings. May the Lord bless you in
your labors, amen.”
	Bishop Robinson said provisions had
been made to entertain the visitors, and he
would see the teams were fed and taken
care of. Benediction by Bishop Robinson.
	Sister John stated a telegram had been
received that Sisters Zina Young and Card
would be with us this afternoon, they
having missed the train this morning.
(Continued)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT. 
	Sister Phebe Adams Hancock died at Paysont
Utah, Feb 4, 1897. She was born June 7, 1811 a
Middlesex Ontario Co., New York. She was the
daughter of Isaac and Betsy Adams, was married
to Solomon Hancock June 28, 1836, joined the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints the
same year and emigrated to Missouri. Came to
Utah in 1849 and to Payson in 1852, and has lived
in this community ever since that time.
	She leaves three sons and one daughter to
mourn for her. She lived a widow nearly fifty
years and supported her family under many
hardships. She was an officer in the first Relief
Society organized by Joseph Smith the Prophet
at Lima, Illinois. She was also the first counselor
to the president, Sister Rachel Drollinger, when
the Payson Relief Society was organized in 1856,
which position she held for many years. At the
reorganization of the Society In w[-]ich Elizabeth
Lant was President, Sis er Phebe Hancock was
elected Treasurer.
	She suffered mobbings and was driven with 
he Saints from Missouri, and drove her own
eam across the plains from Winter Quarters.
	Therefore, whereas our Heavenly Father has
called her away from earth and our midst to a
higher sphere, we miss our beloved sister and
	RESOLVE, To remember her long for the good
she has accomplished while with us; and further
it is
	RESOLVED, That the members of the Second
ward Relief, Society of Payson, cherish her
memory, emulate her energies, perseverance,
long-suffering and virtues through many persecu-
tions and trials of faith connected with the work
of godliness, benevolence, kindness and charity;
for she was affectionately known as “Aunt
Phebe.” Also that we become like unto her in
all meekness and humility. She was kind and
generous to the poor, ever ready to do good.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
presented to the family in behalf Of our Society,
by the President and Secretary, one be placed
upon our records and be published in the WO-
MAN’S EXPONENT with the following appropriate
selected lines.
		“She’s gone her work on earth is done,
	Her battle fought, her race is run,
		Blest is the way she trod;
	For she espous d a g orious cause
	In prompt obedience to the laws
		Of the Eternal God.

[Column 2]
	She sleeps, her troubles here are o'er, 
	She sleeps her earthly ills no more
 		Will break the slumberers rest.
	Her dust is laid beneath the sod 
	Her spirit has returned to God
		To mingle with the blest.”
					CLARISSA MOORE, 
					MILLIE STARK,  
					MARY H. BLENKEY
							Committee.
MARGARET A. H. WHITE.
	Sister Margaret Ann Hill White, daughter of
Patriarch Alexander Hi l and Agnes Hood Hill,
died at her home in Mill Creek ward, Salt Lake
Co., April 9, 1897, after a long and painful illness
which she bore with patience and fortitude She
was born May 1, 1834, at Delhoosea, Canada, and
was bapt zed when she was ei ht years old. She
with her parents, brothers and sisters, shared the
persecut ons of the Saints in Missouri and Nauvoo
and emigrated to Utah in the fall of 1849. She
was married to Elder George Mar in White in
Dec. 1863, (B other W ite died on the 5th of
August 1890.) She was the mother of eight child- 
ren, th ee sons and five daughters Her son
George M. White is now on a mi sion to the .
Northern States.
	Sister White was one of the first to have her
name enrolled as a member of the Relief Society
when it was organized in the Mill Creek ward
She has filled the office of a teache faithfully and
efficiently, seeking out the poor and the needy
and ministering to them with a loving and a
cheerful spirit.
	She was also a teacher in the Sunday school,
performing a noble part. She was ever work ng
for the welfare of Zion. She was a firm believer
in home industry, not alone in theory but in prac-
tice. When the silk organization was effected in
the ward, she was elected president and with her
associates accompli hed a good work in that
direction.
	We have visited her when she was busy with
the silk worms; it was a delight to see with what
care she tended to their necessities, also to listen
to the instructions she was always ready to give.
	She was a kind and loving mother; in her long
sickness she was attended to by her devoted
daughters, and mucn p aise is due them for their
u tiring effo ts in ministering to the loved one.
Her children, with the exception, of the son on a
mission, were all present in her last moments,
wh ch were peaceful and happy.
	She leave a large number of children, grand-
children, relatives and friends to mourn her loss,
but with hope of a glorious resurrection.
	Sister White died as she had lived, a faithful
Latter-day Saint. In behalf of he Relief Society
we tender our deepest sympathy to the bereaved
family. Our friend and cola orer has been called
from our midst to another sphere. May we who
remain emulate her many virtues so that when
we are called home it may be said of us, also,
“Well done. thou hast been good and faithful,
enter into thy rest.”
	The funeral services were held in the Mill
Creek Ward house, Counselor Jas. R. Miller
conducted the services. A large number of
relatives and friends assembled to pay their last 
tribute of respect. Loving hands placed beauti-
ful flowers upon the casket The singing was
very appropriate and much appreciated. The
speakers were Brother Joseph E. Taylor of the
Stake Presi ency, Bi hop McRae, Bishop Hamil-
ton, of Mill Creek, a d other ward authorities,
ea h of whom bore a strong testimony of the
worth and works of our departed sister. A large
number of carriages followed the remains to the 
ward cemetery. The dedicatory prayer was
offered by Patri rch Archibald Hill, now in his
eighty-first year uncle to undeparted sister.
			ELIZABETH HILL, President,
			FRANCES H. HANSON, Secretary.


AN INTERESTING TIME.
	ON Saturday February 6, 1897, the an-
nual and quadrennial meeting of the Seven-
teenth ward Relief Society took place at 10
a. m. in the Relief Society hall, President
Bathsheba W. Smith presiding. The main
object of the meeting was to elect a board of
directors to act during the ensuing four years.
This was effected with the following result:
President, Clarissa S. Williams; first Vice-
President, Sophia Nultall; second Vice-
President, Johanna Brobery; Secretary,


Elizabeth Wilcox; Treasurer, Jane M. C.
Young.
	Tuesday April 13, being the regular day
for a spiritual meeting of the Relief Soci-
ety (these meetings alternate with the busi-
ness meetings) the following guests re-
sponded to invitations to be present: Sis-
ters Zina D. H. Young, B. W. Smith, E.
B. Wells and M. I. Horne of the Central
board, and M. I. Horne, Annie T. Hyde,
Clara C. Cannon, Margaret Y. Taylor and
M. W. Wilcox of the Stake board, with
E. J. Stevenson, Julia C. Howe, L. D.
Alder, and M. A. P. Hyde, Sister Julia I.
Pack, Bishop W. J. Beatie and his counsel-
or A. T. Barnes.
	After the opening exercises President C.
S. Williams made opening remarks, said
this was the regular day for the spiritual
meeting of the Relief Society. A new ex-
ecutive board had recently been elected and
the visiting sisters and the ward bishopric
had been invited to meet with the Relief
Society to do honor to the retiring President
B. W. Smith, and her counselor, Julia I.
Pack. Both sisters had served long and
faithfully and were much honored and be-
loved by their associates, who had received
great blessings from their counsel and in-
struction. Sister Smith needed more free-
dom for her Temple and other duties, and
Sister Pack had removed to Kamas. Speak-
ing for the society Sister Williams gave
greeting to the visitors and bade them all
welcome.
	Remarks both instructive and edifying
were made by the visitors and bishopric.
Sister Zina D. H. Young desired to know
how many cf the old Nauvoo Relief Soci-
ety were present. A show of hands indi-
cated five, Sisters Z. D. Young, B. W.
Smith, S. E. Merrill, M. I. Horne and
Julia L Pack. Interesting reminiscences
of those early days were given, also of the
first organization in the Seventeenth ward.
The elder sisters showed the need, and
urged upon the younger sisters to become
members of, and active workers in the Re-
lief Society labor. Spoke of the great
good accomplished by the Society, con-
gratulated the society present upon owning
the building in which they met. All ex-
pressed themselves as greatly pleased to be
present and Sister Young said she thought
these meetings grand. After partaking of
a spiritual feast, dainty refreshments were
served by dainty young ladies, and all de-
parted feeling it was a privilege to have
been there. 
				L. S. WILCOX, Sec’y.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES' SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	MINUTES of the Semi-Monthly Meeting
held in the 14th Ward Assembly Hall
May 1, 1897 Singing “Who are these
arrayed in white;” prayer by Sister Mar- 
garet Steele; singing “How will the Saints
rejoice to tell;” minutes of the previous
meeting read and approved, Counselor E. J.
Stevenson presided.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson said it was
very pleasing to have Saturday come
around again for these meetings; was sorry
to see so few here on this beautiful day.
Regretted the absence of Sister Horne and
spoke of her great loss in the death of her
noble husband; told us of the last time
she saw him, and how comfortable he
seemed to feel, which was about two weeks
before his death. “Does it not stand us all
in hand to be ready when the call comes?”

[Column 2]
The speaker urged the sisters to be econom-
ical and give to the poor, also to guard
against going into debt. Sister Stevenson
spoke of her recent visit to Davis Co., of
their Relief Society Conference and what a
grand time they had. Referred to the re-
marks of President Hess, felt he was in-
spired greatly. Prayed the good spirit
which we always have might continue to
be with us in these meetings.
	Sister Clara C. Cannon bore a strong
testimony, said she felt well in being here
today. Urged the necessity of doing Tem-
ple work and felt the time would come
when we would not have this privilege,
thought that now we should do all we
could in this direction. Prayed that we
might all be strengthened and built up and
that the Lord would continue to bless us.
	President Mary Ann Hyde said she was
always comforted and blest by hearing the
sisters bear their testimony. The speaker
felt that the Destroyer was at large trying
to lead the young people astray and we
should do what we could to shield them
from these things.
	Sister Mary Ellen Kimball said listening
to the remarks of Sister Hyde reminded
her of the time when they were girls to-
gether. Said she loved a righteous person,
be they Jew or Gentile, bond or free.
	Sister Price bore a strong testimony,
said many times she had tried to bear this
testimony, but felt today she could do this
earnestly.
	Sister Wright felt she must speak of the
goodness of the Lord to her, also referred
to her Temple work. Said when we were
in trouble or difficulty to go to our Heaven-
ly Father and He will always help us.
	Sister Nunn bore her testimony, said we
should have charity and patience for those
who are not blessed in the way we are.
	Sister Mary Ann Hardy spoke of the
time when she first joined the Church and
her early experiences. Bore a grand testi-
mony.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde bore her testi-
mony, said whenever any one bore her
testimony something was always said to
help some one. By attending to our duties
and tending to the every day things of life
we were working out our own salvation.
Spoke of the many things we had to fight
against, Christian Science, Theosophy, and
many other things, felt we should always
be prayerful that we might be guarded
against these things. 
	Sister Lydia D. Alder referred to the re-
marks of Sister Hardy, she said though
being in poor health she still kept on with
her work in her ward; bore her testimony.
Spoke of Brother Joseph Horne who had
just passed away and related a dream Aunt
Zina D. H. Young had about Brother
Horne. Said we should be careful and
love one another. Spoke on charity, and
of our President, dear Sister Horne, and
said we should all continue to pray for her.
Prayed we might all have oil in our lamps
and be faithful.
	Sister Sarah Phelps related a dream she 
had about her Temple work; urged the
sisters to go on and do all the Temple
work they could. 
	Sister Stevenson made a few closing re-
marks, asked the sisters to continue pray-
ing for Brother Horne’s family. Singing,
“This God is the God we adore.” Bene-
diction by Sister Julia C. Howe.
				ZINA H. BULL, Sec.


Special Excursion to Northern Utah, Idaho and
Oregon, Saturday, June 19th, 1897.
VIA THE 
Oregon Short Line
At the Following Low Rates:
	TO		RATE	LIMIT	TO				RATE	LIMIT
Brigham		$2.25	15 days	Market Lake		$10.35	30 days 
Collinston	3.00		15   “	Dubois			12.05	30   “
Mendon		3.25		15   “	Beaver Canon		12.90	30   “
Logan		3.50		15   “	American Falls	8.00		30   “
Smithfield	3.75		15   “	Minidoka		9.00		30   “
Richmond	4.00		15   “	Shoshone		10.00	30   “
Franklin		4.25		15   “	Bellevue			12.75	30   “
Preston		4.50		15   “	Hailey			13.00	30   “
Oxford		4.25		15   “	Mountain Home	14.50	30   “
McCammon	5.75		15   “	Nampa			18.25	30   “
Bancroft		7.25		30   “	Boise City		19.00	30   “
Soda Springs	8.05		30   “	Caldwell			18.50	30   “
Montpelier	9.60		30   “	Ontario			20.00	30   “
Pocatello		7.00		15   “	Payette			20.25	30   “
Blackfoot	8.20		30   “	Weiser			21.00	30   “
Idaho Falls	9.50		30   “	Huntington		22.50	30   “

	Transit limit of five (5) days in each direction will be
allowed on tickets bearing final limit of thirty (30) days.
Other tickets will be limited to continuous passage in each 
direction.
	Trains for Cache Valley and intermediate points will 
leave at 8:00 a. m. and 7:00 p.m., and for all other points 
at 7:00 p.m.
	.S W. ECCLES,			D. E. BURLEY,
		General Traffic Manager.	Gen’l. Pass. & Tkt. Agt.

[image of a shield with text]
UNION PACIFIC
THE OVERLAND ROUTE
WORLD'S PICTORIAL LINE

[Text to the right of the shield]
The People's Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
	lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART. 
“The Overland L1mited” for Chicaga,
	St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City, Denver and Park City			7:00 a.m. 
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
	Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
	Denver							7:00 p.m. 
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
	above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“The Overland Limited,” from Chi-
	cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
	Denver and Park City				3:10 p.m.
“The Fast Mail,” from Chicago, St.
	Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
	City and Denver					3:30 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
	Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Chair
Cars.
		S. H. H. CLARK,
		OLIVER W. MINK, 
		E. ELLERY ANDERSON, 
		JOHN W. DOANE,
		FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
						Receivers.
	E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
	E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
	H. M. CLAY, General Agent.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail 
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS

