VOL. 25.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, APRIL 1, 1897.		<HO> No. 19


CONTENTS:
	An Antedeluvian Di[-]ry—L  M. H. Ladies’
Semi-Monthly Meet[-]ng—Zn[-] Y B[-]ll, Sec.
Relief Society Anniversary—E. Crane Wat[-]on.
Her Eightieth Birt[-]day—Ca[-]oline Smith. The
Three Lakes—Kim. Re[-]rganizatio[-] At D ap[-]r
—Sarah Burnham. Le[-]ter From Lula—L. L.
Greene Richa[-]ds. R S. Reports. In Memo[-]iam.
To The Memo[-]y Of Grandma Free—S. E. D.
Birthday Cele ration. No es And News.
	EDITORIAL:—The Pioneer Kinder arten.
E[-]izabeth Dette Laker Noa 1. Editoria Notes.
	POETRY:—The Passing Day—H W. N. Near
The Gate—L. L. Greene Richards. Farewell—
L. D. A der.


For the Exponent.
THE PASSING DAY.

EVENING shadows tell the story,
	One more day hath joined the past,
Mingled with the ages hoary,
	All had first-day, will have last!

What the record made or written,
	Human wisdom can’t decide,
Many a soul deemed Heaven smitten,
	Finds its crown “the other side!”

Men in judgment mark each weakness,
	Oft condemn through feeble sight,
God knows all the heart, its weakness,
	And His wisdom finds the right!

From the verdict earth doth render,
	Many a broken heart will turn; 
Faith, trusts Father’s love more tender,
	Patient waits the truth to learn.

This the secret ’mid life’s sorrows,
	When a dark cloud veils the sun,
Past probation, there’s a morrow,
	God and Angels say, “Well Done.”
							H. W. N.


NEAR THE GATE.

TO PRESIDENT WILFORD WOODRUFF ON HIS NINE- 
TIETH BIRTHDAY, MARCH 1ST 1897.

THOU favored Prophet of the Lord most high,
So near thou standest to the Holy Gate,
Which entrance to the Great Tribunal leads,
Where sit in council o’er the world’s affairs—
And things respecting worlds innumerable—
The Eloheim, Jehovah, God and Christ,
That as we look on thee, our thoughts revert
To Moses, when, upon Mount Sinai,
He talked with God, and then to Israel,
We listen for thy voice to speak God’s word
Unto His chosen sons and daughters now,
As Moses spake to Jacob’s children then.

Not out of Egypt, but from every land
Is Israel gathered in this latter time;
Not unto Canaan, but to Deseret,
A land of promise and a home of peace
To all who love and serve the one true God;
And thousands still are gathering year by year,
But ah! too much like ancient Israel.
Hard-heartedness and stubborness of will
Oft hold us from receiving precious gifts
And blessings which the Lord would fain bestow.
Teach us, thou friend of God to better know
And understand and serve and worship Him.
Teach us humility; and plead for us,
That all our hearts may softened be, and pure;
That we may follow closely after thee,
And with thee stand, at last, inside the gate.


As Moses’ hands were steadied and upheld
By Aaron and by Hur upon the mount,
While Israel prevailed against her foes,
So may thy counselors George and Joseph, stand
Forever firm, as they have ever been,
Sustaining thee, while Israel of today
Shall triumph over all opposing powers.
And may thy days and years be lengthened out
To lead the Saints from underneath each ban,
Which now curtails their efforts and their aims,
To victory and honor, full and free,
When they are humbled, purified and cleansed
From all their pride, self-will and covetousness.
And may they better learn to prize thy worth,
To emulate thy meekness and thy faith,
To fully trust and truly venerate
The man, who stands so near the Heavenly Gate.
			L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.


[Column 1]
AN ANTEDELUVIAN DIARY.

	THE following “fragments of an antede-
luvian diary,” from an old number of an
English work entitled the “Spirit and Man-
ners of the Age,” may be interesting to
the numerous readers of your valuable
publication.
				Yours, L. M. H.

	Today I am a hundred years old. Ah
me! How blissful are the feelings of boy-
hood! My senses are as acute as the tree
with the shrinking leaf. My blood bounds
through my veins as the river pours
through the valley, rejoicing in its strength
Life lies before me like another plain of
Shinar—vast, unoccupied, inviting,—I will
fill it with achievements and pleasures!
In about sixty years it will be time to think
of marrying; my kinswomen Zillah, will
by that time have emerged from girlhood;
she already gives promise of comeliness and
discretion. Twenty years hence I will pay
a visit to her parents, that I may see how
she has grown. Meanwhile I will build a
city to receive her. A city to do her honor
when she becomes my wife.

	Nearly three centuries have passed since
my marriage. Can it be true? It seems
but yesterday since I sported like a young
antelope around my father’s tent, or, climb-
ing the dark cedars, nestled like a bird
among the thick boughs beneath which my
mother laid me to sleep—and now I am a
man in authority as well as in the prime of
life. I lead out my trained servants, and
sit head of the council. Jazed, my young
est born, a lovely babe of thirty summers,
that gave promise of long life, is dead, but
I have six goodly sons remaining, and my
five daughters are fair and beautiful as their
mother when I first met her in the Acacia
grove, where now stands one of my watch-
towers. They are the pride of the plain no
less from their requirements than their
beauty. No damsel carries the picture
from the fountain with the grace of Adah;
none can dry the summer fruits like Azu-
bah; none can fashion a robe like Mileah;
none sing and play the harp like Hajar,
nor spin and weave like our light-winged

[Column 2]
Zenia. Mahaleel admires them. He is
rich and powerful—he shall take his choice
of all for his wife. 

	My eight hundredth birthday! And
now I feel the approach of age and infirm-
ity. My head has become white as the
blossoms of the almond tree. I am con-
strained to use a staff when I journey; the
stars look less bright than formerly; the
flowers smell less odorous. I have laid
Zillah my beloved in the tomb of the rock.
Mileah is the wife of Mahaleel and all are
gone to their own dwellings. My sons
take my place in the council and in the
field,—all is changed. The long future has
become the short past. The earth is full
of violence; the ancient and the honorable
are sinking beneath the young and the
vicious. The giants stalk through the
length and breadth of the land, where once
dwelt a quiet people; all now is changed.
The beasts of the field and the monsters of
the deep growl with unwonted fury; tradi-
tions, visions and threatenings are abroad.
What fearful doom hangs over this fair
world, I know not: it is enough that I am
leaving it; yet another five or eight score
years, and the tale will be told, completed.
But have I in very deed trod this earth
nearly a thousand years? It is false; I am
yet a boy. I have had dreams—aye long,
long, busy dreams, of buying and selling,
and of giving in marriage; of building and
planting; feasting and warring, sorrowing
and rejoicing; loving and hating; but it is
false to call it life. Go to—it has been a
vision of the night and now that I am
awake, I will forget it.
	“Lamech, my son, how long is it since
we planted the garden of oaks beside the
river? Was it yesterday?” “My father
dost thou sport? These oaks cast a broad
shadow when my sister Zenia carried me
beneath them in her arms and wove me
chaplets of their leaves.” Thou art right
my son; and I am growing old. Lead me
to my mother’s tomb and there leave me to
meditate. What am I the better for my
past length of being? Where will be its
records when I am gone? They are yonder
—on all sides; will those massive towers
fall? Will those golden plains become
desolate? Will the children that call me
father forget? The seers utter dark say-
ings upon their harps when they sing of
the future. They say our descendants shall
be of dwindled stature, that the years of
their lives shall be contracted to the span of
our childhood;—but what is that future to
me? I have listened to the tales of paradise
—nay, in the blue distance I have seen the
dark tops of the cedars. I have heard the
solemn melodies of Jubal when he sat on
the seashore, and the sound of the wave
mingled with his harping. I have seen
angels the visitants of mankind to earth.
Yea, I have seen an end of all perfection
here, what is the future to me?


MISS ADA WOODS, a well known young
London actress, has joined the Salvation
Army.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of the Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting Feb. 20, 1897. Called to order by
Sister E. Webb. Singing “We thank
Thee O God for a prophet;” prayer by
Sister Annie T. Hyde; singing “Now let
us rejoice.” Sister Webb gave the meeting
into the hands of the sisters and wanted a
blessing. Sister Forsythe and Mair and 
others testified to the truth of the Gospel.
Sister Brown bore a strong testimony, made
some excellent remarks.
	The secretary coming in the minutes of
the previous meeting were read and
accepted.
	After which, a number of sisters spoke,
Sisters Jane James, Martha Barrow, Han-
nah Conklin, Christine Rockwell also Sis- 
ters Hunter and Nunn and others whose
names were not known; all bore testimony
to the truth of this work and many of them
referred to the need of safeguards being
thrown around our young people and the
children of Zion, the necessity of teaching
honesty, morality, truthfulness and the
strictest virtue and of setting a good exam-
ple in our own lives.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde said she had been
born and raised in this Church and had been
taught nothing else by her parents. If she was
not a Latter-day Saint it was her own fault.
Spoke upon charity and love, and made
some very encouraging remarks to the sis-
ters. Testified that if we put our trust in
the Lord that He would comfort and bless
us, and give us that which we needed.
Sister Hyde gave notice of the coming Con-
ference.
	Counselor Elizabeth Webb made some
closing remarks which were very comfort-
ing and asked the blessing of the Lord upon
us all. Singing “This God is the God we
adore.” Benediction by Sister Zina H.
Bull.

	Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting held in
the 14th Ward Hall, March 20, 1897,
Counselor E. J. Stevenson presiding.
Singing “Now let us rejoice;” prayer
offered by one of the sisters; singing “How
firm a foundation;” minutes of previous
meeting read and accepted. Counselor
Stevenson made the announcement that
President Horne had gone to Provo, conse-
quently could not be with us today. Spoke
of the courage of those who ventured out to
meeting on such a stormy day, and felt
they would receive a blessing. Referred
to Heber C. Kimball’s words being fulfilled
that there was a test coming to the people,
we must not feel we were the only ones
who had trials for they were common to all.
Sister Stevenson then gave the meeting in-
to the hands of the sisters.
	Sister Margaret O. Brown expressed her-
self very fervently in reference to her testi-
mony and experience in this work, and ex-
horted to diligence, obedience and humility.
	Sister Elmina S. Taylor felt we should
have confidence in one another; thought
it was good for us to have trials, they
would purify us and make us strong to
meet temptation; considered our Heavenly
Father knew what was best for us and
would not try us more than we were able
to bear; admonished the sisters to have
charity and love and help one another, not
to find fault with those who preside over
us in the Church, but look to ourselves
rather than others.
	Sister Margaret Young felt it was an

[Column 2]
advantage to each one who testified to
the goodness of God referred to the trials
of the Saints in the early history of the
Church.
	Sister Wright, Sister Frances Smith, Sis-
ter Jones, Sister Mary Morris, Sister Cham-
berlain, Sister Jane James, Sister Mary
Ann Hardy each made excellent remarks
and bore strong testimonies. Sister Lydia
D. Alder spoke of the coming Easter and
the feelings it always inspired within her;
spoke of the parable of the ten virgins and
made some excellent remarks. Sister Julia
C. Howe felt we had had a feast, felt
spiritually we were all hungering and had
been fed. Sister Howe also spoke earnestly
upon prayer.
	Sister Armeda S. Young said she wished
the support of the sisters in regard to the
work of Sister Sorenson, which consists of
hygiene, or the prevention of disease and
how to take care of our bodies. She then
proceeded to give an illustration of it.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson made a few
closing remarks and fully endorsed every-
thing Sister Young had said. Meeting
adjourned for two weeks. Singing Doxol-
ogy. Benediction by Sister Margaret F.
Steele.
		ZINA H. BULL, Secretary.


RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY.

Editor Exponent:
	THE fifty-fifth anniversary of the organ-
ization of the Relief Society was royally
celebrated March 17th at Parowan.
	A most excellent program of addresses,
recitations, songs and music was well ren-
dered, the brethren feeling honored in
being invited to contribute to the day’s
enjoyment.
	Sister Lenora Orton gave the historical
address of the Relief Society which was
replete with information. Among the
aged sisters who spoke were Sister Nancy
Decker and Aunt Paulina Lyman, who
were at Nauvoo at the time the Prophet
Joseph established this Society. Aunt
Paulina chose for her subject “The situa-
tion and circumstances of the Saints at that
time,” which was decidedly intelligence to
her hearers. Prof. Durham’s orchestral
music and vocal melodies greatly enhanced
the entertaining part of the program.
	After the benediction a general hand-
shaking all around was indulged in, fol-
lowed by a “group picnic,” the Relief
Society supplying the entire company with
hot lemonade. The whole affair was
crowned with an old-fashioned dance, rest-
ing at intervals while listening to some
well chosen vocal selections or recitations.
Withal this thrice blessed day was made
more memorable than ever for the citizens
of Parowan.
	Our Relief Society is in a thoroughly
healthy condition, endeavoring to carry
out the complete design for which it has an
existence. With prayer and love for our
sister organizations, we take pleasure in
subscribing ourselves
	Your co-laborers in this great cause
		S. A. ADAMS, President,
		E. CRANE WATSON, Secretary.


THE French Minister of Education has
appointed Miss Ida Gibson of Chicago, to
prepare a report of early French explora-
tions in America for the Paris Exposition.


HER EIGHTIETH BIRTHDAY.

	ON Wednesday afternoon March 10,
1897, the eightieth anniversary of the birth
of Sister Rachel Whipple, President of the
Relief Society of the 22nd ward was cele-
brated in the New Society Building of that
ward. The hall was beautifully decorated
with mottoes and flowers suited to the occa-
sion. There were about sixty-five persons
present, among whom were Sisters Zina D.
H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, M. Isa-
bella Horne, Elizabeth J. Stevenson Sister
Rawlings and President and Counselors of
the Y. L. M. I. A., also Brother Arthur
Winter of the Bishopric and Brother Henry
Gardner who rendered some fine vocal
selections accompanied on the organ by
Sister Rose Flashman.
	“O My Father” and “Home Sweet
Home” were beautifully rendered by the
sweet singer Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley.
Speeches appropriate for the occasion were
listened to with pleasure, after which a
bounteous repast was partaken of by all
present.
	Upon inquiring it was learned that there
were five persons present who had been ac-
quainted with the Prophet Joseph Smith,
and eight persons who had come to Utah
during the years of 1847, ’48 and ’49.
	Sister Whipple has been an active work-
er in the Relief Society of the 22nd ward
ever since its organization in 1868, acting
as First Counselor and for the last eighteen
years as President.
	She has set a grand example
		For her sisters, one and all;
	Has pressed on with humble patience
		And been true to every call.
	May God’s choicest blessings ever
		Be strewn along her way,
	May her heart be filled with pleasure
		In her labors day by day.
	She will reap a bounteous harvest
		For her work so nobly done,
	And in God’s Celestial Kingdom
		Claim an everlasting home.
			CAROLINE SMITH, Secretary.


MRS. GENERAL GRANT made the first
move against intoxicating liquors at the
White House, and secured its banishment
from the President’s New Years reception.
Mrs. Grant was succeeded by Mrs. Hayes,
a lifelong teetotaler, who never offered
wine. Next came Mrs. Garfield, Mrs.
Harrison and Mrs. Cleveland, all total
abstainers, and none of them furnishing
wine to their own guests, though lacking
the co-operation of their husbands, they
could not prevent its use at State dinners,
as Mrs Hayes could because the President’s
views coincided with her own. Mrs. Mc-
Kinley is well known to be a total abstain-
er, so that, as Frances Willard points out,
the wives of six Presidents, (President
Arthur was a widower) since 1868, have
perhaps dealt more telling blows against
the drinking habit than any other women
who have lived. For “where McGregor
sits is the head of the table,’’ and what is
done at the White House is the keynote of
social observances for millions.
	CARMEN SYLVA has received the
decoration for Arts and Sciences from the
Emperor of Austria. She is the first wo-
man to win this distinction.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


FAREWELL,

TO SISTER MC CUNE ON HER DEPARTURE FOR
EUROPE.
OVER the sea, over the sea
	To a far-off distant shore;
Where the wide Atlantic kisses the sand,
	And the white waves dash and roar.
Blow ye winds from sunny climes, 
	And speed the ship along;
The prayers and praise waft upward,
	With many a happy song.

Hold the angry waves O, Father,
	In the hollow of Thy hand;
And “Peace be still,” to every tempest,
	As of old Thou did’st command.
This loved one goes across the Ocean,
	Divinley sent by Thee;
To carry words of love and gladness,—
	The Gospel bear across the sea.

The learned and noble wait the message,
	Sent from Zion’s holy hill;
Bear the tidings O, my sister,
	This thy glorious work fulfill.
The fires of faith burn brightly,
	Where Zion’s altars rise;
And loving thoughts are ever,
	Rising for thee to the skies.

Turn thy eyes toward the Temple,
	When thy heart is sad;
Bow thy head in deep devotion,—
	Then shall thy soul be glad.
Lo! the Book of life is open,
	See thy name is on the page;
Never to be blotted out,
	Through every coming age.

Think of those who love thee,
	And miss thee every day,
Let this sweet assurance,
	Bring peace and joy alway.
Fear not man for he is mortal,
	In thy holy cause be strong;
Trust in God in silent asking,—
	He will move the proud among.

Sow the seed! leave God the harvest,
	He will reap another day;
To thy kindred bear a witness,
	“This is truth I came to say.”
Then roll ye waves along,
	That bring thee home once more;
And thanks to God we’ll render,
	And praise Him evermore.

So may our lives flow onward,
	Till we reach the home above,
Where every roving wanderer.
	Will share a Father’s love.”
				LYDIA D. ALDER.
Feb. 22, 1897.


[Column 1]
THE THREE LAKES.

GENEVA, COMO AND TAHOE.
	LAKE GENEVA, or Lake Leman of the
Romans. A celebrated lake of Switzerland
extending in the form of a crescent between
that country and Savoy, occupies a part of
the valley which separates the snowy Alps
from the Jura (joo ra) mountains, forty-five
miles long, with a varying width of be-
tween one to ten miles; it lies 1226 ft.
above sea level and is as many deep, the
color of its waters is deep blue varying to
baby blue and are of remarkable transpar-
ency, it is traversed by the Rhone.
	While at Geneva I stood upon the bridge
Mont Blanc where the Arve and the Rhone
emerged from the lake a pure, transparent
stream. As the rivers come washing down

[Column 2]
the Alps the waters are muddy, the Arve
empties into the Rhone which discharges
its muddy waters into the lake, and runs a
long way ere it mingles with the blue
waters. Longfellow compares this to
Purity and Sin. In 1823 steam navigation
was introduced upon its waters.
	Going aboard the steamer we found
many travelers, it was during the season, a
perfect day the better to enjoy the grandeur
of its scenery and the loveliness of its
shores. The south and west banks have
beautiful towns and picturesque villas, the
abodes of wealth.
	The house occupied by Byron is pointed
out at Coppet, the Chateau of Neckar and
his daughter Madame de’ Stael, at Ferney
the residence of Voltair. We stopped at
Vevey and “Clarens, sweet Clarens, birth-
place of love,” of which Byron wrote. All
was music and poetry. Among the pas-
sengers one while gazing at the snowy
Alps would quote:

	’Thee, Leman's Lake, once more I trace,
	Like Dian’s crescent far beneath,
As beautiful as Pean’s face!
	Pride of the land that gave me birth!
All that thy waves reflect I love,
	Where heaven itself brought down to earth,
Looks fairer than above.”

Then another would quote:

“It is the hush of night and all between
	Thy margin and the mountains, dusk yet clear,
Mellowed and mingling, yet distinctly seen.
	Save darken’d Jura, whose capp’d heights ap-
		pear,
	Precipitously steep; and drawing near,
There breathes a living fragrance, from the
		shore,
	Of flowers yet fresh with childhood, on the ear,
Drops the light drip of the suspended oar,
	Or chirps the grasshopper one good-night carol
		more.”

Or from the Prisoner of Chillon, or from
Rosseau’s Catastrophe of his Heloise, as
their thoughts differed.
	Arriving at the landing of Villeneuve we
are at the head of the lake, between the
Jura and Savoy Alps, the latter include
Mt. Blanc. We watched the glorious sun
set which left a golden path on the lake,
while Castle and Mountains were mirrored
on the surface. Soon the landscape was all
in shadow, leaving delightful memories.
LAKE OF COMO.
	A lake of Lombardy situated at the foot of
the Alps, thirty-five miles long with a vary-
ing breadth of from one to three miles. It
it an expansion of the river Adda, 698 feet
above the sea, 1,925 feet deep, its waters
turquoise blue; it is justly celebrated for
the scenery of its shores, covered with
elegant villas and beautiful gardens.
	From the town of Como, birthplace of
Pliny the younger, we took steamer to
Menaggio, then a boat, going opposite the
fashionable resort, to a solid granite wall
built up out of the water, with water gates,
supplied with steps for embarkation. We
entered the beautiful chateau belonging to
a nobleman; he rented it just as it was,
with cut-glass, silver, dainty china and the
privilege of roaming around the gardens,
and olive, lemon, orange and citron trees,
which no doubt Bulwer describes in “A
deep vale, shut out by Alpine hills from
the rude world, near a clear lake margined
by fruits of gold and whispering myrtles.”
Turn where we would in these enchanting

[Column 3]
grounds, there was something in this beauti-
ful drama that constantly recurred to our
memory, so quotations were heard on all
sides.
	The mountains rise abruptly from the
waters edge, their sides covered with ver-
dure, in many places terraced and planted
with grapes, while perched upon a pinnacle
a thousand feet above you are churches and
monasteries, and in the distance snowy
Alps. Everything was rose color; the
air was perfumed, we heard the murmurs
of low fountains, the music from flutes,
guitars and sweet strains from the band at
Managgio. The palace lifting to eternal
Heaven its marble walls, the softest skies.
We arranged for a moon; God granted fair
weather. While we sailed all night upon
the blue waters we judged them fairer than
day.
LAKE TAHOE.
	It was just sundown when the stage
coach turned a bend in the road and we
came to the very edge of the lake, ensconced
amid the mountains at an altitude of 6,225
feet above sea level on the borders of
Nevada and California in the Sierra Nevada
mountains, its length 22½ miles, greatest
width 13 miles, its depth 1,506 feet, its
waters not blue but wonderfully clear,
looking like a sheet of glass, surrounded
like a wall by the mountains while the
beautiful pines peeped up through the
snow. One German exclaimed “Tahoe,
a jewel with an emerald setting,” while an
old Jew sitting by him said, “Yes a dia-
mond of purest ray.”
	The mountains and pines with Heaven
itself were reflected in its transparent
depths; it was sublimely beautiful, restful.
I said to my father, I am not so weary now.
	So between that loveliest of the Italian
lakes, Como, and our beautiful American
gem, there is no comparison.
						KIM.


SIXTY years ago women could not vote
anywhere. In 1845 Kuntucky gave school
suffrage to widows, In 1861, Kansas gave
it to all women. In 1869 England gave
municipal suffrage to single women and
widows, and Wyoming gave full suffrage
to all women. School suffrage was granted
in 1875 by Michigan and Minnesota, in
1876 by Colorado, in 1878 by New Hamp-
shire and Oregon, in 1879 by Massachu-
setts, in 1880 by New York and Vermont.
In 1881 municipal suffrage was extended to
the single women and widows of Scotland.
Nebraska gave school suffrage in 1883 and,
Wisconsin in 1885. In 1886 school suffrage
was given in Washington, and municipal
suffrage to single women and widows in
New Brunswick and Ontario. In 1887
municipal suffrage was extended to all wo-
men in Kansas, and school suffrage in
North and South Dakota, Montana, Ari-
zona and New Jersey. In 1891 school suf-
frage was granted in Illinois. In 1892,
municipal suffrage was extended to single
women and widows in the Province of
Quebec. In 1893 school suffrage was
granted in Connecticutt, and full suffrage
in Colorado and New Zealand. In 1894
school suffrage was granted in Ohio, a
limited municipal suffrage in Iowa, and
parish and district suffrage in England to
women both married and single. In 1895
full suffrage was granted in South Austra-
lia to women both married and single.
In 1896 full suffrage was granted to wo-
men in Utah and Idaho.              Ex.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Const[-]tution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to 
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH. 
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
ccond-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, APRIL 1, 1897.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE General Conference of the Relief
Society will be held in the Salt Lake
Assembly hall in this city, on Saturday,
April 3rd, meeting commencing at 2 p. m.
and at 7.30. There will also be a meeting
on Monday, April 5th, at the same place.
It is desirable that there should be as large
a number as possible present of the officers and
members of this important organization, al-
so that every Stake of Zion should be
represented by the President, or some one
authorized to act for her.
	A cordial invitation is extended to the
Bishops and all brethren interested in the
welfare of the Society.
	ZINA D. H. YOUNG,
				President,
	JANE S. RICHARDS,
	BATHSHEBA W. SMITH, 
					Counselors,
	EMMELINE B. WELLS,
					Secretary.


THE PIONEER KINDERGARTEN.

	It will no doubt be gratifying to some
of our readers, and especially those inter-
ested in Kindergarten work and in the
Primary Association, to know of the first
movement of this kind made in Utah.
	From Sister Camilla C. Cobb of this
city we have been able to glean a few facts
about her early work, although she is al-
most too modest to have them given at all,
but we consider it her just due, as she was
the pioneer in this beautiful work now
growing in favor everywhere as its real
merits are becoming known. It is the
earnest wish of the writer and of many
others who are at the present time associated
in this work, that our people should com-
prehend more fully the great advantages of
this fundamental training of the children.
	Sister Cobb informs us that it was in the
summer of 1874 that she went East to visit
relatives, and while there and some little
time before returning, she was attracted by
notices in the papers to the Kindergarten
under the management of Dr. Adolph
Douai, a renowned German educator.
	Having received such training herself in
her early childhood in her native place,
the City of Dresden, Germany, and being
most interested in that particular method of
training little children, she concluded to go
and see for herself the manner in which
[Column 2]
the Kindergartens were conducted in
America. Consequently she went from
New York City and took up her abode in
New Jersey where this famous school was
established; called on the venerable old Dr.
and told him she would like to see and
understand something of the workings of
the American Kindergartens, explaining,
however, that she would not have time to
remain long enough to enable her to take
an entire course of training. She also told
the Dr. of her former experience in the
Kindergarten.
	Dr. Douai told her the best way of doing
what she desired with only limited time,
was to go right into the Kindergarten and
take hold with the teachers (who, by the
way, were his own daughters) and instruct 
with what knowledge she had and the ex-
perience she would gain by observing the
other teachers.
	Sister Cobb followed the Dr’s, advice
and being a German herself, as both Eng-
lish and German were taught, it was not
so difficult a task as one would suppose;
her improvement was rapid, and she saw
many things that to her mind always fruit-
ful in ideas, might be added to and improv-
ed. Sister Cobb says, “I need not say
that I enjoyed myself there and felt well re-
paid for the time so profitably spent and the
additional knowledge gained; while there
I was impressed with the grandeur of the
work and began to see Froebel’s grand
ideas were only in part understood, but felt 
that the time would come when justice
would be done to this great educator of
childhood.
	“During my stay in the Kindergarten, I
was surprised with a visit from John W.
Young Esq., who was so delighted with 
what he saw there and so impressed with
the possibility of what might be done in
our far Western home, that he asked me if
I were willing to start a school of this kind
on my return home to Salt Lake City,
promising to aid me all he could; being full
of the spirit of the work I readily assented.”
	Sister Cobb says, and truly "all begin-
nings are difficult and as this system of
teaching was entirely new and unknown to
the people here, I had my ardor somewhat
dampened in trying to establish my Kinder-
garten. However, I concluded to make an
effort if even in a small way, and so with
the children of John W. Young, my own
and some others, I opened the first Kinder-
garten in Utah in the vestry of President
Brigham Young’s old schoolhouse inside
the Eagle Gate. Through the kindness of
Mr. Young the room was suitably and
handsomely furnished. I had brought
some material home with me from the East,
and some I found here, and with a little
ingenuity turned many things not especially
intended for this purpose to splendid ac-
count. I was filled with love of my work,
and while we had not arrived at the excel-
lence that we have since attained to, we
claim to have done a good work.
	“ The same spirit that inspired Froebel
the great master was in our school, and a
happier band of little children I think
would have been hard to find. I also
taught the German language through ob-
ject lessons, and it was surprising to see
how rapidly the little ones gained a knowl-
edge of this language, and it is not long
since I heard a mother, formerly a pupil of
my school, sing to her own babe the little
German songs of the pioneer Kindergarten
of 1874.”
[Column 3]
	Sister Cobb did not give these facts with
a view of our using them in this way, but
it is only proper that she should
have the credit of the work, she
undertook under such adverse circumstan-
ces, and that she so faithfully performed
until other duties and changes came, that
made it impossible for her to continue in
this particular line of teaching.


ELIZABETH DETTE LAKER NOALL.

	THE sudden news of the departure from
this life of Sister Libbie Noall, as she was
generally known by the sisters and her
intimate acquaintances, was a great shock
to her many friends and a loss to the
community. Sister Noall was one of the
loveliest women of her day, in character
and in nobility of soul, and one of the most
active in the Church in the lines of work in
which she was called to take part. She
seemed to possess adaptability for whatever
she undertook to do; the Relief Society, the
Young Ladies’ Association, the Sunday
school and the Primary seemed all equally
dear to her and for each one of these from
time to time she labored faithfully and well.
Very few if any women have accomplished
so much in so short a lifetime, and yet Sis-
ter Noall was a delicate woman physically.
Spiritually she possessed faith, energy,
strength and courage.
	Her principal labors were upon the
Sandwich Islands among the native sisters;
the writer recalls vividly to mind her first
impressions of Sister Noall and the nar-
ration of her work, while upon the first
mission to the Sandwich Islands with her
husband as related after their return in 1889.
But after going back to the islands again,
when her husband was called upon his
second mission, she kept up a correspon-
dence with the writer in reference to the
Relief Society there, and the labors among
the sisters, that brought her very near, and
made her very dear. Her letters were
precious gems of thought, and her ideas and
the lofty conceptions she had of her daily
work, showed plainly how deeply she real-
ized the great responsibility of helping the
native women of these islands, who were
untaught in the principles of the Gospel,
and in the common duties of life in the
home; and their anxiety to become like
their sisters over the sea urged Sister Noall
on, to do and to acquire information and
means to carry on their work in teaching
them, which seemed almost miraculous un-
der the circumstances.
	The pamphlet prepared by Sister Noall
in the Hawaiian language is a credit to her
tact, and also a true expression of her great
desire to instruct the Hawaiian sisters in the
same lines of thought and activity possessed
by the Society in the various Stakes of
Zion; the book contains 32 pages. For
this work our sister sent to the Deseret
News for the cuts of Sister Zina D. H.
Young and her Counselors, so that the sis-
ters there might better understand who
were the women, who were at the head of
this great charitable society.
	The interesting articles we have publish-
ed from those far-off lands, written for the
EXPONENT by Sister Noall, have given our
readers some idea of her arduous labors in
endeavoring to teach them civilized meth-
ods and spiritual development in them-
selves and in the manner of conducting their
meetings.
	Sister Noall was gifted in writing and


[Column 1]
in speaking; her voice was mellifluous and
sweet and she had a great flow of language;
and she was whole-souled and genuine.
It has been stated that she spoke the Hawa-
iian language perfectly as much so as possi-
ble for one not born among them. She
presided over the Relief Society in that mis-
sion and assisted in organizing the Relief
Society in many branches, and traveled
from island to island, in the interest of the
work; she also organized a Primary Asso-
ciation in Honolulu and in Laie. The sad
news of her death will be deeply felt among
the saints in that land. Her devotion to
the Church both in the mission and at
home, is an example our young people
would all do well to follow. Her implicit
faith in the power of the priesthood was
sublimely manifest up to the last moment
of her life.
	Elizabeth Dette Laker was born at St.
Charles, Bear Lake, Idaho, Nov. 11, 1864.
Her parents are Lashbrook and Annie Bry-
son Laker, and in her childhood she was
religiously inclined. She was early identi-
fied with the Sunday school and Mutual
Improvement Association. She was fond
of writing both poetry and prose and was
certainly of a poetic nature.
	Miss Laker married Elder Mathew Noall
June 21, 1885, and in November of the
same year went to the Sandwich Islands
with her husband, remaining three years
and five months at that time, returning
again in December, 1889, Elder Noall
having been chosen to preside over the
mission upon the Sandwich Islands. This
last time they were gone three years and
eleven months, returning in Nov. 1895.
The two missions covering a period of
seven years and four months.
	Shortly after reaching home Brother and
Sister Noall buried one of their children, a
little boy born to them on the islands (one
of three born there) and Sister Noall griev-
ed over her bereavement excessively, and it
is said never quite regained her former
health afterwards, although she made a
very great effort to overcome the excess of
her sorrow. She leaves four children, three
girls and a boy, one a babe four months
old, to mourn the loss of a tender mother
and devoted saint. May the Lord comfort
the sorrowing husband who has been called
to part with a loving wife, the companion
of his youth and may the little children
thus bereft travel in the same safe path as
their dearly beloved mother, who has now
passed behind the veil, that they may all be
reunited again where there is no more sor-
row, grief or pain, nor parting forever.
May these little ones keep ever in mind,
		“A memory of the gentle dead
		A lingering spell of love.”
	Sister Noall died Sabbath morning March
21st, at 4.05 o’clock at her residence in this
city, after a week’s illness with pneumonia.
Her funeral services were held in the
Twenty-second ward meeting house on
Thursday at 2 p. m. The house was filled
with relatives and friends. Numerous
floral emblems testified also of love and
sympathy. The services were conducted
by the Bishop of the ward, Alfred Solo-
mon. Among those who addressed the
congregation on this solemn occasion was
President George Q. Cannon who, because
of his own long and varied experience upon
the Islands, was well prepared to appreciate
the labors of Sister Noall, knowing the
many difficulties to be overcome in such a

[Column 2]
labor as she performed. President Angus
M. Cannon also occupied a short time and
others bore faithful testimonies of her good
works.
	Much as we who are left may regret her
being called away to the “better land,”
yet we must acknowledge our Father’s
will in all things, and remember she rests
from her labors and her works follow her.
Her good name and the record she has
made will live forever in the hearts of the
saints.

Weep not that her toils are over, weep not that
	her race is run;
God grant we may rest as calmly when our work,
	like hers, is done!
Till then we would yield with gladness our trea-
	sures to Him to keep,
And rejoice in the sweet assurance, He giveth
	His loved ones sleep.”


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	MADAME VON FINKLESTIEN MOUNT-
FORD has been giving her unique enter-
tainment, Living pictures of the Holy land
under the auspices of the Brigham Academy
in several of the larger towns in the State,
both North and South of Salt Lake City.
Madame Mountford will give one of her
series of lectures in the large Tabernacle in
this city on Tuesday evening, April 6th.
	MISS A. M. BEECHER of New York
City is at the Manitou, and is to remain
here for a few weeks longer. Miss Beecher
is the cousin of the Rev. Henry Ward
Beecher, and is in many respects very like
her celebrated cousin. She is a very enter-
taining speaker and in conversation very
agreeable and decidedly humorous and
attractive. The lady has been entertained
by most of the Woman’s Clubs in the city,
and has given what she calls her “drawing
room talks,” and all who have heard ex-
press themselves as being delighted with
her manner of dealing with the live ques-
tions of the day. Miss Beecher will give a
series of three lectures under the auspices
of the Ladies Literary Club of this city.
	THE terrible destruction by the floods on
account of the Mississippi river overflowing,
breaking the levees and destroying property
and causing families to flee for the preserva-
tion of life, cannot fail to be a warning to
all those who believe in the predictions of
prophets, seers and revelators concerning
the calamities of the Latter days. Fires,
floods, cyclones, wars, and rumors of wars,
must cause an awakening to all those who
have hearts “to feel another’s woe.” In-
deed even now the dispatches bring daily
accounts of these things, and of famine and
pestilence, that one is amazed in contem-
plating and cannot but wonder what the
near future will bring.
	THE Woman’s Co-op Store on First
South St., just West of Main St. in the
Nauvoo Building, has been well supplied of
late with new goods, and is in the hands of
women accustomed to business in the city
of London, England, Mrs. Francis and her
daughter. Hats and bonnets in great
variety, of good material and in the latest
styles, are also reasonable in price. Dress-
making is carried on in the establishment
and good satisfaction guaranteed. A
speciality is made of burial clothing of the
finest quality, or prices to suit the purchas-
ers. Fancy goods and also useful articles


for ladies wear and also for fancy work and
embroidery etc. The store is carefully fit-
ted up and the ladies who have interested
themselves in maintaining it solicit the
patronage of the public and are desirous of 
giving satisfaction. As it is the only wo- 
man’s store of the kind in the city it should
be well patronized.


REORGANIZATION AT DRAPER.

	ON Thursday, Feb. 6, 1897, at 10 a. m..
a meeting was held at Draper, Salt Lake
Co. at the Ward house for the purpose of
reorganizing the Relief Society, it being
disorganized by the death of our beloved
President, Sister Hannah Rawlins.
	The meeting was presided over by Bishop
William C. Allen. Singing “How firm a
foundation;” the opening prayer was offer-
ed by Lauritz Smith Sen.; continued by sing-
ing “Behold the Savior of mankind.”
The Stake Presidency of the Relief Society
were present. President Horne gave some
excellent advice with regard to this organ-
ization. The speaker urged all the sisters
to be enrolled as members. Counselors
Annie T. Hyde and Clara C. Cannon en-
dorsed what the previous speaker had re- 
ferred to; spoke to some extent on the
duties of the teachers of the Society; many
incidents were related about the Prophet
Joseph Smith and the instructions he gave.
	President M. I. Horne was chosen to
preside during the election of officers, and
Sister Sarah Burnham to act as secretary.
The articles of the Association were read
by the Secretary and the result of the
election was, Mrs. Sarah Ann Snow, Presi- 
dent Laura Jane Allen and Caroline
Rowbery, Vice: Presidents; Sarah Burnham,
Secretary; and Nancy Ballard, Treasurer;
Trustees, Mary Emma Terry, Ellen S.
Staker and Maria Comfort Goff.
	After the organization was completed
President Horne and her Counselors and
our worthy Bishop, W. C. Allen, and Elders
Thomas Staker and P. N. Goff gave some
excellent advice, The speakers urged those
who had been elected to magnify their call-
ing, also spoke upon sustaining those who
are placed over us; many things were made
mention of concerning the early rise of the
Church. A good spirit prevailed during
the exercises. Meeting closed by singing
“Softly beams the sacred dawning.” Bene-
diction by Elder Peter M. Goff.
		SARAH BURNHAM, Secretary.


LETTER FROM LULA.

			GRANTSVILLE, Utah,
					March 11, 1897.
Dear Aunt Em:
	Not having been informed just who
would be my companion visitor to this
place, I was very pleased to meet Miss
Rose Wallace at the depot this morning.
Both she and myself had felt a little uneasy,
lest the other missionary might fail to put
in an appearance, and the one be left to
make the visit alone.
	We had a pleasant ride and conversation
on the train. But “ooh”! wasn’t it cold
when we left the car and took the buggies
which the sisters of Grantsville had kindly
sent for us?
	Yesterday, when we had a little cold
squall in the middle of the day in Salt


[Column 1]
Lake City, they had a fierce blizzard here.
And the effects of it still hang around; the
weather is bitter cold.
	Yet, notwithstanding the cold ten miles-
ride from the Half Way House, we reached
the Grantsville meeting house in time for
the opening of the Relief Society Confer-
ence at 10.30, where we received a warm
welcome, were cheered, refreshed and made
comfortable.
	There was not a large turn out at the
forenoon meeting. Most of the leading
sisters of the Stake have been sick lately,
and several of them are still unable to leave
their homes. The Relief Society Stake
President, Sister Mary A. Hunter, is just
recovering from a severe attack of pneu-
monia. First Counselor, Sister Ellen C.
Anderson, was too ill today with sick head-
ache to be up. And although we had din-
ner at her house and were well cared for by
her daughter Hortense, Sister Anderson
was not able for even private conversation.
Second Counselor, Sister Rhoda A. Lyman,
has been suffering with rheumatism, and it
would have been imprudent for her to ven-
ture to ride from Tooele to Grantsville in
the cold wind and sleet today. So you can
understand that the Stake organization of
the Relief Society must appear to be rather
lame just now. But I want to tell you al-
though the authorities I have mentioned
were not present, we have had two excel-
lent meetings today, conducted by Stake
Secretary Mary A. House and Sister Emma
H. Anderson, daughter of President M. A.
Hunter, and Counselor in the Grantsville
Relief Society.
	Sister Rose C. Hammond, President of
the Relief Society in this place, has a very
sick babe, which renders her, also, unable
to attend the conference. But the meetings
have been well conducted, and encouraging
written reports from all but one of the eight
branches belonging to the Stake have been
furnished. Verbal reports were also given
by several presidents and representatives,
which aided much in enlivening the meet-
ings. The matter of storing up grain is
not overlooked by any of the branches re-
ported, but is made a prominent feature in
the industries carried on among them. The
music and singing in our meetings have
been very pleasing to us. Grantsville, I
believe, is noted for its fine singers. A
number of the brethren made us glad with
their presence and their good advice and
kind, encouraging words.
	Our dear and faithful friend, Sister M. A.
House, still goes about like a ministering
angel among the sick and suffering of the
ward.
	At the close of the afternoon meeting she
took us to see Sister Rose Hammond and
her sick child. There we had the sad satis-
faction of speaking words of comfort and
consolation to the sorrowing mother, and
mingling our prayers with her’s in behalf
of her afflicted little one. Also of witness-
ing the spirit of sympathy and loving kind-
ness which exists among the sisters here, to
a very marked degree, when there is a call
for the exercise of these high qualities.
	Several kind invitations were extended
to us for entertainment during our stay;
but as I always make my home with
Brother and Sister House when visiting in
Grantsville, Sister Wallace also joined us
this time, and we are very comfortably
sheltered in their cosy little habitation.
	That is, I am, and my companion was,
and will be again after the meeting this

[Column 2]
evening. Being positively worn out, really
too tired to go to the Young Ladies’ Con-
ference at 7.30 this evening, I have allowed
Miss Wallace to go without me.
	The wind blows wildly and the snow
falls fast. But we hope the young ladies
are having a good, cheering time in their
conference.
	Friday 12th. This morning we had a
delightful time with the children. Sister
Louisa C. Hale, Stake Superintendent of the
Primaries, and her assistants are doing a
noble work among the boys and girls in
this Stake of Zion. Bishop James L.
Wrathall of Grantsville, and several of the
leading brethren met with, and spoke en-
couragingly to the little ones and their
Primary officers.
	In the afternoon we met with the officers
of the three associations, Relief Society,
Young Ladies’ and Primaries. It was
truly a time of rejoicing and spiritual re-
freshing to us all. The older sisters and
young ones mingled their voices in songs
of praise, in prayer and testimony, and the
Spirit of the Lord was richly poured out,
strengthening, instructing and enlightening
all in the things of God.
	That was the closing of the conferences
and meetings which Sister Wallace and my-
self were appointed to attend. We have
both enjoyed much freedom in speaking to
the congregations with whom we have met,
and have rejoiced greatly with the people
here.
	After the Teacher’s meeting, as the
sisters called the last one, we again visited
Sister Hammond and her suffering darling,
in company with Sister House. Spoke as
cheeringly and soothingly as we could, and
Sister Hammond expressed herself as feel-
ing blest, and grateful for our visits. Her
little one still lingers between life and
death; but as it continues to grow weaker
there are now but faint hopes of its re-
covery. Before its illness it was evidently
a remarkably sweet and bright child.
	This evening we are glad to rest in our
friends’ quiet home, preparatory to a visit
to President M. A. Hunter tomorrow morn-
ing, and a ride home in the afternoon. We
have looked over Secretary House’s book,
and find it in excellent order; every thing re-
corde dup to date.
	Saturday 13th. President M. A. Hunter
we find bright and cheery as a girl. Glad
to see us and talk over business matters
connected with the Society, old times, the
experiences of our missionary boys, Temple
work etc. No one would suppose Sister
Hunter to be seventy years old from her
appearance but she is. She has not ven-
tured out of doors since her recent attack
of pneumonia. We have dinner with her,
and one of her grandsons takes us the ten
miles ride to the train. This finishes our
pleasant and successful visit to Grantsville.
		L. L. GREENE RICHARDS.
	P. S. Just before we left Sister Hunter’s
place, Sister Hammond’s son Willie came
in to tell us the baby, little Paul Leland,
died at noon. All we can now do is to ex-
tend our continued sympathy to the bereav-
ed family.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


INFANT FUNERAL HYMN.
(“Tune Nearer My God To Thee”)
PEACE to thee, little one,
	Gone from our fold!
Quickly thy course was run,
	Thy story told.


Peace to the hearts that mourn,
Sadly bereft and torn—
Christ hath all sorrows borne—
	God’s will be done !

Let not our thoughts remain,
	Neath the cold sod,
Where thy fair form is lain,
	Lead us to God;
Where thy pure spirit bright,
Basks in eternal light,
Where there is no more night,
	No death nor pain.

Though from thy mother’s breast,
	Death carries thee,
By angel arms caressed,
	Now thou art free,
In glory like the sun—
God’s loving will be done!
Peace to thee, little one—
	Rest, Darling, Rest!
						L. L. G. R.


R. S. REPORTS.

BEAVER STAKE.
Editor Woman’s Exponent:
	MINUTES of Conference of Beaver Stake
Relief Society held in the Society Hall,
Beaver City, Utah, March 5, 1897, com-
mencing at 10 o’clock a. m., Counselor
S. M. Dell presiding.
	Present of the brethren, Pres’t. C. D.
White and counselors, M. L. Shepherd and
J. F. Tolton, Bishop Geo. Mumford and
counselors, S. O. White, Patriarch Daniel
Tyler and others.
	Singing “And are we yet alive;” prayer
by Counselor M. L. Shepherd; singing “O
God our help in ages past;” minutes of
previous conference read and approved.
	Counselor S. M. Dell made a few open-
ing remarks, felt glad to see the sisters out
to conference. President Jane W. Bickley
reported the Beaver Relief Society in good
condition.
	President White felt pleased to meet in
conference with the sisters. “Bishops
appreciate the help they receive from the
Relief Society and the people ought to be-
cause they are a great blessing to all classes.
They are doing a good work and ought to
be sustained.” Spoke at some length on
the grain question, very much regretted
the accident to Sister Howd, felt satisfied
the Lord was pleased with her faithful
labors and would reward her for them.
	Statistical and financial reports of wards
and Stake were read. Counselor M. L.
Shepherd thought the sisters had ac-
complished a great amount of good. As
the people of the Lord we need to do every-
thing to the best possible advantage, also
live in peace with each other, without
jealousies and evil speaking, thus shall we
receive the blessings of our heavenly
Father.
	Sister Tyler thought the instructions we
had received excellent. All her labors had
been done willingly and cheerfully. “The
Prophet Joseph turned the key for women
and they are taking their place in the
world. May we all be earnest and faithful
in our labors.”
	Patriarch D. Tyler felt thankful that he
could hear and enjoy the most that was
said. The work the sisters have done in the
past speaks for them and testifies of their
faithful labors, and they will receive a
great reward.
	President C. D. White said they had
selected Sister R. W. Tyler for Stake presi-


dent, spoke very highly of her past labors,
said she is well qualified for the position. 
	The following officers were then present-
ed and unanimously sustained: Mrs. Ruth
W. Tyler President; Mrs. Mary A. White
First Counselor; Mrs. Cedarena C. Shep-
herd Second Counselor; Alice M. T. Tan-
ner Secretary.
	Meeting adjourned until 2 p.m.. Sing-
ing “Now let us rejoice:” benediction by
Counselor J. F. Tolton.
	AFTERNOON SESSION. Meeting con-
vened at 2 o’clock p.m., President R. W.
Tyler presiding. Prayer by Elder John
Griffiths; singing “O say what is truth.”
President Martha Walker of Minersville,
Sister Mary A. Jones of Adamsville and
President Mary Morris of Greenville re-
ported their branches of the Society in good
condition and working unitedly. Each
Society had change of officers at re-election
in February. Singing “We thank Thee
O God for a prophet.” Elder Watkin
Reese of Adamsville encouraged the sis-
ters in their good work. “We will meet
the records we make here when we pass
beyond the vale.”’
	Bishop Mumford was very much pleased
in viewing our granray. Spoke of the im-
portance of storing grain, spoke on economy
and the necessity of teaching our children
this principle.
	Elder John Briggs spoke in regard to the
training of our children. Counselor M. A.
White spoke on the same subject and gave
mothers excellent advice on the course to
pursue with our children. Prof. W. G.
Bickley said “We have had a feast this
afternoon.” Spoke of the greatness of the
gospel work and its spread, also spoke
encouragingly of the labors of the Relief
Society.
	President R. W. Tyler said that although
our labors have been great while building,
we have endeavored to see that none suffer-
ed. Encouraged the sisters to support the
EXPONENT.
	President C. D. White said every mother
in Israel should belong to the Relief Soci-
ety; teach our daughters to be virtuous and
throw a shield around our sons and daugh-
ters, also teach them obedience to the Priest-
hood of their parents, and not let them hear
us find fault with the authorities.
	Presidents J. W. Bickley and R. W.
Tyler spoke in regard to the grain. Meet-
ing adjourned for six months. Singing
"Lord dismiss us;” benediction by Bishop
George Mumford.
		R. W. TYLER, Pres’t.
		ALICE M. T. TANNER, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]	
	IN MEMORIAM.

	SlSTER KAREN PEDERSON NIELSEN

	SISTER KAREN PEDERSON NIELSEN died o
pneumonia at her home in American Fork on
Friday, Feb. 5, 1897, after an illness of one week.
Sister Nielsen was born at Vesterby on the Island
of Oland, Denmark, Dec 20, 1827, received the
Gospel and was baptized into the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints, Nov. 3, 1853.
Was married to Niels Nielson Feb. 3, 1854, and
emigrated the same year, arriving in Utah Oct.
5, and has resided in American Fork since 1856.
She leaves a husband and six children, one son
and five daughters. She was a faithful, and
energetic teacher in the Relief Society for more
than 20 years and always ready and willing to
wait on the sick both day and night. We revere
her memory as an humble, patient, persevering
Latter-day Saint and we miss her in our meetings,
for her testimony was true and faithful and al-
ways cheering and comforting. We realize that
all is well with her, for she has gone to receive

[Column 2]
the reward of the faithful, and may be a link
in the chain that binds us to our heavenly Father.
We sincerly condole with the bereaved family and
friends in this dispensation of Providence, and
pray the Lord to enable them to bear the burden
with humility and resignation. She has truly
fought the good fight and will gain her reward in
the Kingdom of God.

		EMILY HELEN TREASURE.

	IT is with feelings of deep regret that we have
to record the death of our much beloved sister
and friend, Emily Helen Treasure, who died Feb.
5, 1897, aged sixty-seven years.
	She was a faithful, unassuming, consistent
Latter-day Saint, and we realize our loss is her
gain. She has been the secretary of our Relief
Society ever since its organization in March 1885.
She was a model of promptness and order in
her books, for her records were kept in the best
of order and correctness.
	In losing her we have lost a very useful woman
and her place will be hard to fill.
	She has been a faithful member of the Church
for about forty years. She joined the Church in
Williamsburg, New York, and came to Utah in
1861, settled in Smithfield, Cache Co. and lived
there about ten years, then moved to Treasure-
ton, Bannock Co., Idaho and resided there un-
til her death.
	While residing in Smithfield she married Elder
William Treasure, a widower with seven children,
and proved herself a kind, loving mother to those
children who now gather round her bier, grieving
for the loss of a good mother. She never had
any children of her own. She has left a host of
step grand-children and friends to mourn her loss.
	May we emulate her noble example and live to
be worthy to meet her in the'morning of the first
Resurrection.
				Your sisters in the Gospel
					E. J. WILLIAMS, Pres
	JANE SMITH,
	SARAH J. SANT, Couns.
Treasureton, Idaho.
[Deseret Evening News please copy.]

		SARAH A. PITCHFORTH.

	DIED at the family residence in Nephi, Juab
Co., Utah, Feb. 24th, 1897, after a short illness of
bronchitis, Sister Sarah A. Pitchforth, beloved
wife of the late Samuel Pitchforth. She was
born Jan 13, 1829 at Swinton, Yorkshire, England,
was the daughter of John and Esther Golds-
brough, was at the time of her death sixty-seven
years, eight months and ten days old. She was
baptized as a member of the Church of Jesus
Christ of Latter-day Saints Sep. 5. 1849, left her
home on Jan. 1, 1850 and journeyed towards the
home of the Saints, arriving at Salt Lake City
Oct. 1, of the same year. She came in a sailing
vessel and crossed the plains in the old, slow,
tedious way, was married to the late Samuel
Pitchforth Dec. 20, 1851 and was the mother of
twelve children, six of whom have preceded her
to the great beyond. She thus leaves six child-
ren, twenty-two grand-children and a host of
relatives and friends to mourn her loss.
	She moved to Nephi with the family in 1852,
and has resided there ever since. She passed
through a great many trials and privations inci-
dent to the early settling of these valleys, but was
never heard to murmur or complain, but on the
contrary always had words of comfort and sym-
pathy to offer to those with whom she met. She
was a loving and affectionate wife mother and
friend.
	She was a teacher in the Relief Society and
faithfully discharged her duties in that capacity
for a number of years prior to her death.
	The funeral services were held in the Stake
Tabernacle, on Feb. 27, 1897.
	Appropriate remarks were made by Apostle
Teasdale, Presidents Angus M. Cannon and Wm.
Paxman and her Bishop.
	A large cortege followed the remains to the
cemetery where all that was earthly of our much
loved friend and sister was laid in the tomb by
the side of her departed husband and children.

	Dear sister, how we mourn our loss
	    Thou wert faithful, kind and true;
	And nobly bore your daily cross,
	     As He who sent desired you to.
	Dear Sister Sarah Ann has gone to rest,
	     She was prized by all who knew her worth;
	Her mission was to comfort and to bless,
	     While God saw fit to lend her to this earth
	She labored with untiring zeal
	     Nor deemed her cross too hard to bear;
	’Till God in mercy called her home
	     And a glorious crown awaits her there,

[Column 3]
RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT TO THE MEMORY OF
	SISTER SARAH A. PITCHFORTH.

	WHEREAS, Death has come into our midst
and taken from us our honored sister whom we
all loved, and an earnest supporter and teacher of
the society, be it
	RESOLVED, By the members of this Society that
we tender to the bereaved family our sincere
sympathy, and earnestly desire that God will
comfort them in their affliction.
	RESOLVED, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the family, a copy placed on record, and
one forwarded to the EXPONENT.
		E. R. UDALL,
				     President,
		M. A. GROVER,
		K L. PAXMAN,
						      Committee.


TO THE MEMORY OF GRANDMA
FREE.

	As the sun arose so beautiful and calm
one summer’s morning in the present cen-
tury, it brought into this world one noble
spirit, who has lived long and well, and
one too who has recently been called
“home ” to meet a host of friends, clasp
hands with noble ancestry, and wear the
crown of wife, mother, sister and compan-
on among those gone before. This time
we speak of Sister Sarah Hyder Free.
“Grandma,” as we familiarly called her,
was born of English parentage, her father
Wm. Jarrold being an honored officer in
the Duke of York’s regiment, located at
Summer Hill, Ireland in the year eighteen
hundred. It was here his babe was born
on July 20th of that year but he soon re-
turned to Cambridge with his family and
here Grandma’s earlier days were spent.
	At the age of twenty-four she married
Richard H. Hyder, but was left a widow
with six children in 1838. She was the
second person to embrace the Gospel in
Cambridge. With her three surviving
daughters she set sail for Salt Lake City in
March, 1851, and reached her destination in
October of the same year. Many of the
early trials of crossing the plains with ox
teams she unmurmuringly endured. Her
daughters married as a result of which
twenty-seven grand-children and sixty-six
great grand-children have honored her
name.
	Just think, dear reader, there are but
few indeed living today who can tell of the
great war of 1812, but ’t is only a short
time ago that some incidents of it could
have been told by our departed one.
Grandma often said, “I shall live to see
every son-in-law of mine laid peacefully
to rest.” This was fulfilled completely,
Brother Edward W. Davis being the last
one to complete that assertion. As the
light breeze of 1851 wafted Grandma’s
sailing vessel from the old world to the
new, after she had braved every peril and
finally landed her cargo on a brighter shore
—so has it been with the ships of Christ in
her case. She boarded that ship in the
bloom of womanhood, stood by it when
clouds of destruction arose and threatened
its safety, maintained her integrity to it
through summer hours and winter’s blasts
unto her very last moment. Truly all who
knew her can say, “she has fought the good
fight, she has kept the faith,” she has en-
dured faithfully to the end in the Truth,
and there are treasures in Heaven awaiting
her coming to claim them; which she has
done, having passed peacefully away on
the 18th ult. She shall awake again and
in glory dwell when “the dead in Christ
shall live.”			—S. E. D.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


BIRTHDAY CELEBRATION.

	On the afternoon of Monday the 8th an
enjoyable, and to those who participated in
it, a long to be remembered event took
place at the new residence of Sister Julia
Ives Pack, the occasion being the eightieth
anniversary of the birthday of that estima-
ble lady. About 3 p. m. those of Sis-
ter Pack’s children who reside here, with
a few others of the family surprised her,
bringing with them good wishes and good
cheer. The afternoon was spent in pleasant
converse and reminiscences of other days,
until just as the shades of evening fell a
burst of song from an adjoining room
heralded the arrival of the grandchildren
swelling the number to forty-two. A
bountiful feast was quickly spread and after
all had partaken, the cozy parlors were
again sought and a pleasing program car-
ried out, consisting of songs, recitations
and speeches. The latter were responded
to in a feeling manner by Mother Pack; also
by Sister Ruth M. Pack. A pleasing
feature in the program was the reading of
a poetical address by Sister Laura C. Pack,
also an historical sketch in verse, of events
in Sister Packs life, followed by a brief his-
torical address from the pen of Pres’t.
Ward E. Pack, for the benefit of the young-
er members of the family. With many
happy wishes and kind good nights, the
party separated feeling that such reunions
are as a rich oasis in the arid journey of
life.
	March 12th, 1897.
TO OUR MOTHER.
Dear mother, we lovingly greet thee
	This day of thy eightieth year,
In thy snug little home so cosy and neat
	And near to thy children so dear 

Though some are not now here with us, 
Though mountains and vales intervene,
We know their hearts with ours unite
	To crown their dear mother a queen. 

And bravely, yes nobly you’ve earned it,
	Through scenes of affliction and strife
Have e’er been a fond, loving mother,
	A noble and true, loving wife.

Your hand has been free to the needy
	To give succor to the poor and oppressed;
The suffering and needy have blessed you
	For you’ve cheered them in sorest distress.

We hope when the warm summer breezes
	Again shall kiss our fair land,
Our loved ones will come here to join us
	And again clasp the warm, loving hand.

We will do all we can to make welcome
	And happy while with us they stay,
We will have a reunion to strengthen
	And comfort us each on our way.

And we trust that each will look forward
	To the Grand Reunion to come,
And hope we may welcome each other
	Again in our Great Father’s home.


THE RESOLUTIONS.
	RESOLVED, That the National American
Woman Suffrage Association is and will
continue to be non-partisan, and appeals to
men of all parties to secure suffrage for wo-
men: 
	RESOLVED. That we rejoice in the estab-
lishment during the past year of full wo-
man suffrage by the States of Utah and
Idaho making with Wyoming and Colorado,
four free states for women.


RESOLVED, That the magnificent vote in
California (110,000 in favor of woman suf-
frage to 117,000 opposed) being a majority
of the votes of the entire State outside of
San Francisco and Oakland, show that the
heart and conscience of the people are with
us, and we recommend the immediate re-
submission of the question:
	RESOLVED, That we will continue to
petition Congress to protect women citizens
in their right to vote by a sixteenth consti-
tutional amendment and every other form
of appropriate legislation.
	RESOLVED, That we urge each State soci-
ety to memorialize its legislature at every
session for full legal and political equality
for women in every form and to secure
hearings in its behalf.
	RESOLVED, That as representatives of
the women of America, we are opposed
to the barbarism of war: we declare our
hearty approval of the treaty of arbitration
between the United States and Great
Britain, and we respectfully call upon our
senators to ratify the same.
	RESOLVED, That we thank Mr. Washing-
ton Duke, of Durham, N. C., and cordially
appreciate the gift of $100,000 to Trinity
college of that State on condition that
women shall receive the equal advantages
with men. 
	RESOLVED, Whereas it is stated that
Miss Stahlnacker alone has passed the civil
service examination for translator of mod-
ern languages in the office of the United
States Adjutant General, which requires
ability to speak and write six modern
languages, and to translate one to the other;
and
	Whereas, the Adjutant General refuses to
appoint her solely because she is a man,
therefore, be it
	RESOLVED, That we respectfully petition
the national executive to enforce the princi-
ple of civil service reform in application to
her appointment;
	RESOLVED, That we thank the Iowa
Senate for their courtesy in inviting the
Convention to present its claim before that
honorable body;
	RESOLVED, That we thank the people
of Des Moines for their generous hospitality
to the delegates in attendance on this
convention; to the newspapers of the city
for their full and fair report, and to the rail-
roads of the country for reduced rates; to
Frank A. Walden for the use of a type-
writer; to the Kimball Piano Co. for the
use of a piano.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Chicago Political Equality League
closes its public meetings for the season
with an all day meeting Saturday, April
3rd, at the Woman’s Club Hall. Forenoon
session at 10.30; afternoon at 2.30.
Among the speakers will be Mrs. Florence
Kelly, on Women and Children in Fact-
ories; Mrs. W. H. Rand, on the Women’s
and Children’s Protective Agency; Rev. J.
A. Rondthaler, D. D., on Woman Suffrage;
Mrs. Jennie C. Hutchins, on Current Suf-
frage Events; Mrs. Helen E. Starrett, on
Asking for her Share of Power; Mrs. Mary
Knowles Bartlett, on The Woman Question
in Mrs. Ward’s “Marcella” and “Sir
George Tressady;” Dr. Julia Holmes
Smith, on The Woman Question in Mere-
dith’s “Diana of the Crossways.”    —Ex.


THE Woman’s National Press Associa
tion transacted a good deal of routine busi-
ness at its meeting, March 19, and appoint-
ed Clara B. Colby and Carrie Harrison a
committee to draft a memorial to the Presi-
dent, asking his good office in securing the
impartial execution of the civil service laws,
and that the chiefs of divisions be no longer
allowed to discriminate against women in
the selection of clerks.


DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
WILL BEGIN HER
Class: in : Obstetrics
	On Monday April 12th 1897 with improved
facilities for instruction in this important study.
Special terms are given to societies sending
students. For further particulars communicate
with
ELLIS R. SHIPP M. D
75 Center St Salt Lake City Utah.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R. K. THOMAS

[Union Pacific logo with the following text on it]
UNION
PACIFIC
THE
OVERLAND
ROUTE
WORLD'S PICTORIAL LINE.

[the following is written to the right of the above logo]
The
People's
Favorite.

Trains leave and arrive Salt Lake City as fol-
lows. (In effect March 16, 1897):
DEPART.
“The Overland Limited’’ for Chicaga,
St. Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
City, Denver and Park City......... 7:00 a.m.
“The Fast Mail,” for Chicago, St.
Louis, Omaha, Kansas City and
Denver...........................7:00 p m.
From three to twelve hours quicker to all
above points than any other line.
ARRIVE:
“T[-]e Overland Lim[-]ted,” from Chi-
cago, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas City,
Denver and Park City..........3:10 p m.
"The Fast Mail," f[-]om Chicago, St.
Paul, St. Louis, Omaha, Kansas
City and Denver................3:30 a.m.
CITY TICKET OFFICE, 201 MAIN ST.
Telephone No. 665.
	The only line operating Through Pullman
Palace Sleepers, Library, Buffet Smoker, Dining
Cars, Tourist Sleepers and Free Reclining Ch[---]
Cars.
S. H. H. CLARK,
OLIVER W. MINK,
E. ELLERY ANDERSON,
JOHN W. DOANE,
FREDERICK R. COUDERT,
Receivers.
E. L. LOMAX, G. P. & T. Agt.
E. DICKENSON, Gen. Manager.
H. M. CLAY, Gene[-]al Agent.


[Illegible handwritten note]

WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Ballot in the Hands of the Women of Utah should be a Power to better the Home, the State and the Nation. 129

