VOL. 25. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 1, 1896. No. 3.


CONTENTS:
	The Farm—M. E. K. U. W. P. C.—Ellis R.
Shipp, Rec. Sec. S. L. CO, W. S. A.—Cassie
Newman, Sec. Notes And News. Half A Cen-
tury—Julia Cruse Howe. In The Dear Defunct
Deseret Hospital—Thomine Einarson. Ladies’
Semi-Monthly Meeting—Zina Y. Hyde Sec.
R. S. Report—E. J. Bennett, Sec. In Memoriam
—Susannah Mortenson—Emma Burrows—Ann
Cook Parsons. Woman’s Work And Woman’s
Endeavor—Frances Graham French. Utah
School For The Blind.
	EDITORIAL:—Abraham Hoagland Cannon.
Editorial Notes.
	Poetry:—In Memory Of Our Beloved Apostle
—R. M. F. Back Again—L. M. Hewlings. The
Little Head That Fell—Irene Ackerman.


IN MEMORY OF OUR BELOVED
APOSTLE.

ABRAHAM HOAGLAND CANNON.

BEND low your heads ye lofty peaks,
In sadness bow, fair Zion weeps;
And hide ye vales beneath a cloud,
While we her children weep aloud.

O murmur softly, rippling stream,
When hearts are sad too gay you seem;
To fairy dell go! hie away
Where stricken mortals never stray.

Cease song-bird, cease your glad refrain,
And tune your notes to softer strain;
How can ye be so blithe and free,
When all around, you sorrow see?

Did you not know that noble man,
That true apostle of the Lamb?
Of whom ’tis said his life was pure,
Whose absence we must now endure.

Have ye ne’er listened to the voice
That made his hearers heart rejoice?
As filled with charity and love,
He taught the way to God above.

Nor have ye seen the kindly smile,
That showed the heart contained no guile?
Nor heard the lonely widow bless,
The hand that brought her happiness?

And care ye nothing for the sire,
Whose bosom burns with heavenly fire?
But now with grief and sorrow wrung,
He mourns a brave and loyal son.

Do ye not heed the widow’s tears—
O Father soothe their coming years,
And guard them with Thy loving care,
Let hope and trust displace despair.

The children too, O Father bless.
And clasp them in Thy fond caress;
May harm or evil never come
To offspring of this chosen one.

And Father comfort all Thy saints,
And listen to our heartfelt plaints;
Teach us O Lord that we may see,
Thine hand controls our destiny.

Lo! comes the answer through the vale,
From mountain peaks and flow’ry dale;
And e’eu the voices from the tree,
Blend with the stream’s sweet melody.

“We cannot mourn the absent one,
That such a glor’ous work has done;
We know it was the Master’s will,
And joy His wishes to fulfill.


Ye erring mortals cease to grieve,
“Though he were dead yet shall he live,”
But join in our triumphal song,
That one so valiant and so strong—

In faith, and righteounsess and worth,
Was for a moment lent to earth,
An almost perfect light to shed,
That in its rays your feet may tread. 

Then being all too good to stay,
Like some bright star he leads the way;
Hosanna! this our song shall be,
Death’s swallowed up in victory.
							R. M. F.


[Column 1]
THE FARM.

	THE farm was the home of my child-
hood and early youth, and it does indeed
seem like a heavenly vision when called to
my recollection. Yet it may be because
of my youth which makes it seem so
heavenly, for that which pleases the eye
and gladdens the heart in youth is most 
charming I admit. Yet I think the aged
would not fail to appreciate this farm when
I tell them of the many good qualities it
had.
	It had previously been the home of my
grand parents before it came into our
hands, and also been the home of their
parents before this time. They were well
acquainted with what a farm needed and
accordingly this farm was in good condi-
tion. No irrigation, plentiful showers of
rain in the State of New York.
	In the first place the fruit which was my
delight was plentiful; early apples in July,
then fall apples and again winter apples.
Cherries and plums and pears, but no
peaches in Montgomery Co., but plentiful
further west, but strawberries, raspberries,
blackberries, gooseberries and currants
were abundant, and a variety of melons
and vegetables of every kind.
	Not only so, but we made our sugar
from our maples which was a delightful
task to do. Our bees made our honey,
our geese furnished us with nice feather
beds, and our sheep with good warm
blankets and heavy coverlets, besides good
clothing which was sent to the fulling
mills to be colored and pressed; it came
home as nice as if just from the store.
	This farm also had nice flax growing
on it, with which my grandmother and
her daughters spun beautiful linen. Our
pillow cases were as fine as you would
wish to see, also our table linen, and was
durable; some of it was brought to this
valley. The sheets were coarser and also
the counterpanes, which were woven with
heavy cords or ribbed forms. My grand-
mother spun herself a set of bed curtains
woven in damask form, and the top valence
was trimmed with netting and also the sides
of the curtains made by her own hands,
and also the top valence of the window
curtains:  Our table was well supplied
with milk, butter and eggs, beside fruit
and vegetables of every kind.
	We had sweet cider bottled down to a
syrup which was ready for our mince pies,
and also for our apple sauce which was

[Column 2]
made in the fall to last all winter. This
could be used for pies if we wished.
	But I must not forget to tell you that we
made our own threshing machine. It was
a fact. Our neighbors would come and help
thresh and take their pay off the farm in
grain and fruit, cider and vegetables,
which made their tables as comfortable as
ours.
	Then we could take a load of grain and
dried fruit etc., perhaps butter and eggs, to
Albany only 40 miles from our home, and
with these could buy silk or crepe or any
nice dress goods one wished to have for an
extra occasion; all this without money.
And when I think of it I often say in my
heart why go crazy because money is not
more plentiful. No, let us have more farms
and learn how to take proper care of them,
for all men are not farmers, oh no, some
men will raise a greater crop of weeds than
anything else. Such persons will do well
to raise stock, or learn a trade, then they
can earn money and pay the farmer for
his provisions if this suits them best. Yes
my uncles did this and I think they worked
more hours than when they lived on the
farm and were obliged to be so diligent and
faithful.
	How vividly do I call to mind the joy
and satisfaction of the farm, the home of
my childhood, although 77 years have
elapsed since that time, the time my grand-
father died after a lingering illness. Then
his sons felt the weight and burthen of
these cares, and thought it preferable to
enjoy a city life, and prefered to learn a
trade that they could handle money and
have a change. This they did; one chose
to be a carpenter, another a blacksmith,
and the youngest a coppersmith, and each
looked after their mother’s interest. This
they did, yet how soon they found how
slippery money was. It took all they
could earn to get food and clothing, with
other necessaries to make life comfortable,
and to their astonishment the money went
before they were aware of it, so it seems
in only buying the same comforts that
they had previously made on the farm.
But please remember the machinery to
make farming so light was not invented at
that time, that novelty they did not en-
joy.
	In my youth I could hardly see the use
of gold and silver, except for spoons or a
teapot or pitcher. or some furnishing for
the table. Oh no, to the farmer iron is
preferable for the same, the hammer and
the nails, as spikes must be of iron, and all
the implements he uses on the farm are to
a great extent made of iron you know.
Now I would ask if gold and silver were
not a circulating medium to exchange for
other commodoties, would it be of any
more worth than the rocks we pave the
streets with? I think not, for we read that
the time is coming when the Holy City
will be paved with gold. But at this time
it is valuable for a circulating medium; let us
use it in wisdom, remembering the words
of our God and Savior who said, if you are
not faithful to the Mammon of un-
righteousness, who will commit unto your


trust the true riches. I think this is food
for thought, is it not?
						M. E. K.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
U. W. P. C.

	ON account of other important meetings
being held on the 30th of June, which is
the regular night for the meeting of the
U. W. P. C., it was postponed until July
1st, and by consent of the President, Dr.
Ellis R. Shipp claimed the honor of enter-
taining the members at her residence, 75
Center St.
	The delightful summer evening was all
that could be desired, nature, reason and
intelligence making the occasion one long
to be remembered. Quite frequently have
we been honored with the presence of distin-
guished guests, but never before with so many
in a single evening. Among the number
were Mrs. Jennings, the honored President
of the Utah Woman’s Federation of Clubs 
of local fame, and the noted Woman
Suffrage speaker of national reputation,
Miss Elizabeth Upham Yates. The meet-
ing was called to order by the President
E. B. Wells, and opened with prayer by
Mrs. Emma J. McVicker. The Secretary
called the roll a good representation answ-
ering to their names. The minutes of
previous meeting were read and approved,
and miscellaneous business transacted. Pre-
sident Wells made a happy speech of wel-
come to our distinguished visitors.
	Mrs. E. J. McVicker gave a very interest-
ing report of her visit to Denver. In
meeting with the great number of women
united in the Colorado organization she felt a
sense of awe and reverence almost equal to
that experienced in standing in the pre-
sence of the Great Niagara. She had the
honor of presenting greetings from the
Utah clubs, and had met with the most
interested consideration, all being anxious 
to hear of this sister state. The Club Wo-
men of Denver had mutually agreed to
give no social functions on Saturdays, that
day being reserved for clubs. Spoke of
one especially brilliant affair the “Shakes-
peare breakfast”. Each lady had a
quotation from Shakespeare on her card and
was expected to give an impromptu res-
ponse in verse.
	The Denver women are very bright,
thinks the climate helps them, their work
is more bright and airy which naturally
invigorates the intellect; it is not an advan- 
tage to attempt too many things at once.
The study of Parliamentary Law helps 
brighten the mind. This club should es-
pecially excel as their work is mostly
original.
	Miss E. U. Yates was next introduced
to the Club, and all were delighted to
greet this most charming and interesting 
young woman, who had met with woman’s
clubs all over the United States. There is
nothing that so unites women as these
same clubs. 
	“Olive Schreiner’s “Book of Dreams” often
called to mind, in one of these dreams are
women seen clasping hands throughout
the world. The finest club house for wo-
men is found in Philadelphia, it is a
thoroughly financial success. In the
course of business, preceding its erection,
it was found that no married woman could
sign the business contract—none but spins-
ters according to law. I am glad to be
here in these gala days, when all are rejoic-
ing in Statehood; rejoiced to see that Utah’s

[Column 2]
star shines with a duplex radiance, both
sexes being recognized. Hail to the jubi-
lee that lets the captives go free! Speak not
of the ‘‘new woman” but the old in the
new environment. Better to study suffrage
than to go gossiping as women did former-
ly. The world is better every day for the
advanced conditions of women. The wo-
men of Utah stand on high vantage ground
and will not be only a text to the world, but
a sermon too."
	Mrs. I. Cameron Brown spoke of her
sojourn in Washington, which is really a
city of clubs, many fashionable and social
clubs; also a number of working women’s
clubs. But the Colonial Dames sweep
everything before them.
	The Woman’s Press Club is quite a
feature in Washington. The women of
these clubs are nearly all suffragists, and
are doing a good work.
	Some of these clubs have papers, others
will permit no manuscript whatever. One
very aristocratic club hold their shares at
$25.00 and will admit no working women.
They are all wealthy and own a fine club
house.
	Mrs. W. C. Jennings, was pleased to
have the opportunity of becoming acquaint-
ed with other clubs, thought all women
should keep posted and care to know what
other clubs are doing. Mrs. F. S. Rich-
ards was most happy to be present and
greet Miss Yates. Speaking of her work
in the Agricultural College, said it pre-
viously had a father but no mother.
Thought club work was more beneficial
than sewing bees and quiltings.”
	Miss Pearl Russell sang very sweetly,
“The Bridge of Sighs.” Miss Yates then
by request gave a most interesting ac-
count of her experience in China and the
characteristics of the Chinese women, said
they were our peers in intelligence and our
equals in arrogance. They were a most
peaceable and industrious people, “but they
have not educated their women. But what
can we say for America when we consider
that Harvard had been founded one hundred
and fifty years before they would even ad-
mit women to their annex; and even now
they measure up side by side with
men.”
	“It is an interesting fact that the very
first book ever written for the education of
women was written by a Chinese woman.
To be sure not a work of wide scope, but
we should recognize the fact. Infanticide
is not more common in China than Amer-
ca. An erroneous idea that all girl babies
have their necks wrung. Such a populous
nation—one tenth of the whole globe—
must have had mothers. They as a people
prefer sons because of their patriarchal
order of life. Girls go out from the
parental roof and become members of the
husband’s families. The daughters-in-law
become waiting maids to their husbands
families and the servants of the household.
All negotiations for marriage occur be-
tween the parents, and they sometimes get
fees for their services. In some instances
the parties most concerned never meet un-
til the marriage cermony. One advantage
is that the mother-in-law cannot complain
if she makes the selection herself. The
young men take their wives as a matter of
fact.
	“It is supposed that the custom of binding
the feet of infants originated from a princess
being born with deformed feet, and to hide
the condition the king thereupon issued a

[Column 3]
mandate that all girl babies should be thus
maimed. It is accomplished by breaking
the bone of the great toe and bending it
forward, the other toes being bent under
and bound tightly. This bandage impedes
the circulation and stops the growth. This
practice rarely begins before four years of
age. Large feet is a serious social factor
for women in China as prostitutes are
known by their large feet. But the Mis-
sion School has done much to check this
practice as they will not admit any with
bound feet.”
	The President suggested that our present
program be held over for the next meeting.
Hoped there would be increased interest
and punctual attendance. Meeting adjourn-
ed for one month. Mrs. Dickinson pro-
nounced the benediction.
	Strawberries, cake and cream were a fit-
ting finale to the “feast of reason and flow of
wit.”
			ELLIS R. SHIPP, Rec. Sec.


S. L. CO. W. S. A.

	MINUTES of Meeting held in the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT office, June 16, 1896.
Song ‘‘The Reason Why.” Regular pro-
gram defered for one month and Miss
Elliott invited to address the ladies. She
read extracts from letters received from
Clara Barton, bearing the Post mark of
Constantinople, in which she tells of her
work among the people who are suffering
from smallpox, dysentery and plague.
Tells of tools and grain being carried into
the interior the grain being planted and
watered until it is growing before leaving
the field, and of English doctors being sent
for to take the place of ignorant and super-
stitious ones to alleviate the pain and suf-
fering of the afflicted. She told the beauti-
ful story of the origin of the Order of the
Red Cross, and the great work done by the
members, and thinks that the work should
be in the hands of the government, al-
though every city responds to the call of
charity when any calamity befalls the
country. The Red Cross flag is the only
hospital flag known. It is the Swiss flag
reversed, the Swiss flag being a white
cross on a red back-ground, and the hos-
pital flag, a red cross on a white ground;
said that in 1892 America sent a ship-load
of grain to Russia to be planted for the
benefit of the famine stricken people. She
spoke of the great and thoroughly organiz-
ed work done by Miss Barton, and the
great good that she had done and is doing
to-day. Dr. Ferguson spoke of the work
that she and other women are doing in
Salt Lake City in organizing a Woman’s
League, where working women can be in-
structed in many ways and greatly benefit.
ed, and the dignity of labor upheld. A
letter written to the Governor of Utah
from a Boise paper, asking support from
the women of Utah was read and discussed,
after which Emily S. Richards gave an
address. Elizabeth J. McFarlane spoke
next, said that her great wish was to help -
womankind, and she believed in equai
rights to everybody. Resolved to form a
club called the Civic Club. Mrs. Fewson
Smith kindly offered her home for the next
meeting of the new club. Prayer was
offered by Mary Silver. Meeting ad-
journed for one month.
			CASSIE NEWMAN, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


BACK AGAIN.

BACK once more to the far-famed valley,
	After many long years away,
Amid its scenes awhile to tarry,
	In the evening of life’s day.
A few loved ones remain to greet me,
	From the number left here of yore,
While others are taking the places,
	Of those who have passed before.
We look upon some dear changed faces,
	Knowing that ours also has changed,
But thank God for the old-time friendships,
	And faith that has not been estranged.

We hail every token of progress—
	Improvements wrought out with the years,
Mark where once were barren waste places,
	Now beauty and blossom appears.
Glorious lake, mountain, and river,
	To this vale rich blessings impart,
Here, unique in grandeur forever,
	As marvels of nature and art.
Here too shines the *star of true freedom,
	That none may gainsay nor withstand,
Its clear light shall pierce thro’ all ages,
	For God, and home, and every land.
					L.M. HEWLINGS.
(*Equal Suffrage, no distinction of sex.)


[Column 1]
THE LITTLE HEAD THAT FELL.

I arose for household care
	When scarce shone forth the light of day,
And still, tho’ close into the night,
	A lot of sewing there did lay.
Yes all around me, everywhere
	The undarned socks and baby stuff,
The tiny dress, the little cap,
	The fluffy lace, and dainty ruff,
And other duties after that
	That mothers know they must obey.
All this I pondered on that night,
	The end of that long weary day;

Not knowing where to first begin
	So dazed was my brain with all,
When midst it came a childish voice—
	“Mamma, mamma” my boy did call,
Then rushing in with face aglow
	And eyes so bright and dimples deep,
Thro’ merry laughter ringing out,
	And roguish looks he could not keep—
"Oh Ma" he cried and danced about
	Until his curls did upward fly,
"I've such a funny dream to tell
	Just listen mamma dear—oh my!”

The night so hot the work undone,
	All then a burden seemed to me
That quickly in a rage I turned,
	And sharply cried “O let me be.”
Scarce had I spoke the bitter words,
	When all at once my careless gaze
Upon him rested thoughtlessly,
	But still I saw though in a daze,
Astonishment was on his face,
	That he the dream could not me tell.
His dancing stopped and in amaze
	The little head it fell.

Then I worked on till all complete,
	The night far gone I sat and thought
How hard my lot, how tired my feet,
	When I grew unconscious, aye was naught,
When came a sudden shining light
	And then a cloud obscured it all,
Then again it grew so bright,
	I heard a harp or baby call,
Celestial sounds came then to me,
	The light was bright the music near,
A flower was midst the star-lit air.
	An angel shining did appear.

[Column 2]
“Your lot is hard” she then did say
	“Hard work upon your spirits tell,
I come to take upon my breast,
	The little head that fell.”

Quick—with a cry of anguish wild,
	I then awoke—what was it all!
What was it all—that dream, my child!
	My brain confused I could not think,
Oh strength to rise oh power to know,
	To clear my head that’s crowded so.
Was that a dream—upon her breast
	To take my heart, my life, my joy,
Has she—Oh God, has she my boy?
	Did I repine oh— let me think,
What did the angel mean to tell
	The little head that fell.

Like one that staggered ’neath a blow,
	And strengthened up when strength re-
		turned,
I sprang upon my chamber floor,
	And fled while my poor brain yet burned,
Up with one bound the long dark stairs,
	My arm stretched out to feel the door,
Then turned the knob so silently
	My brain still by that angel tore.
There stood the cot—I could not move,
	My heart stopped beating, nor could I tell
What brought me there, nor could I see
	The little head that fell.

Then—then was the light; Oh clear,
	The cloud was gone—I was dreaming then not,
The angel then did appear,
	Smiling on me, and in the cot,
My heart cried out, I screamed with joy,
	Such joy that none but mothers tell,
And to my breast I lifted up
	The little head that fell.
					IRENE ACKERMAN.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE W. C. T. U. of New Jersey, is to
give a “Welcome Home” reception to Miss
Willard and Miss Gordon on their arrival
to their native land, about October 15th.
	AT the Kuntucky Chautauqua, held at
Lexington, the W. C. T. U. School of
Methods was in charge of Mrs. S. Fesseden,
President of the W. C. T. U. of Massa-
chusetts. One hour a day was given to
various lines of the work, and on Temper-
ance day the address was given by John G.
Woolley. There was a fine audience des-
pite the fact that the weather was not
favorable, and the multitude hung spell-
bound upon his impassioned eloquent words.
There were about two hundred white rib-
boners present during the entire assembly,
but a much larger attendance upon the day
of Mr. Woolley’s address. Mrs. Frances
E. Beauchamp, Kuntucky’s brilliant young
president is a firm believer in the value of
Chautauqua Assemblies as a means of
popular education, and believes also that a
W. C. T. U. School of Methods could be
made a most valuable adjunct to these
eighty odd Assemblies throughout the en-
tire nation. There is already a good
beginning in this direction since the W. C.
T. U. will be represented in the majority
of the leading Chautauquas during the sea-
son of 1896. The original Chautauquas
will head the list with August 5th. as its
grand W. C. T. U. day, when Miss Slack,
Mrs. Burt, Miss Ackerman and John G.
Woolley will be the speakers. There will
also be five conferences in the Hall of Phi-
losophy under the charge of Mrs. Steven-
son, where the various phases of white
ribbon work will be presented.


HALF A CENTURY.

	ON Thursday the 2nd of July, the day
being the anniversary of Sister Lydia D.
Alder’s 50th birthday, a few of her many
friends (numbering about 25) wended their
way to her residence about 4 o’clock p. m,
to offer her their sincere congratulations
	The lady, however, was not at home but
spending the afternoon with her son’s
family, but she was notified and soon made
her appearance, when happy greetings and
old time associations were freely indulged
in.
	An autograph album with her name
engraved in gold letters on the cover, was
presented to her, and at her request all pre-
sent wrote their names and sentiments
suitable to the occasion therein. Refresh-
ments with lemonade was then served,
after which a spiritual feast was indulged
in
	By the unanimus vote of the assembly,
our venerable and beloved president, Zina
D. H. Young, was elected chairman and
after singing and prayer President Young
made a few remarks and called upon others
to speak also, prominent among whom was
B. W. Smith, Helen Mar Whitney, Ellen
C. Clawson, Camilla Cobb, Sarah A.
Reece and indeed all present responded to
the call, even Sister Alder’s little nine year
old daughter May. Sister Phelps spoke
beautifully in tongues which was interpret-
ed by Sister Zina Young and enjoyed by
all.
	A very pleasing feature of the program
was the reading of some verses composed
by Sister Alder and suggested by President
Young’s remarks at one of the Sisters Con-
ferences viz. that we should take our bur-
dens to the Lord and leave them there.
The remarks of the speakers all tended to
show how necessary trials are to purify and
perfect us. As Paul of old says, “They
will work out for us a far more exceeding
and eternal weight of glory."
	President Young then laid her hands
upon Sister Alder and gave her a prophetic
blessing, which we all endorsed by a hearty
Amen. Benidection was pronounced by
Sister Rachel Grant.
	Mrs. George D. Alder Jun. rendered
some beautiful pieces on the piano while
social chat was again general for a short
time, when we bade adieu to our hostess
and family about 10 o’clock, all feeling
blest and comforted, at least this was the
experience of the writer.
				JULIA CRUSE HOWE.


WEIGH not so much what men assert, as
what they prove remembering that truth
is simple and naked, and needs not inven-
tion to apparel her comeliness.—Sir P. Sid-
ney.
	IAN MACLAREN sails for America on
September 16th. Dr. Robertson Nicoll ac-
companied by Mr. and Mrs. Barrie, will
also arrive in this country about the end of
September.—The Bookman.
	THE QUEEN OF DENMARK, who al-
though she is seventy-eight years of age, is
still pretty and retains her vivacity and
charm, declares that the only way she
keeps young is by keeping young people
about her. She always has a house-full of
them, and likes nothing better than to be
surrounded by her grandchildren and their
friends. She affirms that she is aunt to all
of Europe, to which she is not grand-
mother.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparei[-]
coace one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
spunt to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd-class matter.

		SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 1, 1896.


[Column 1]
ABRAHAM HOAGLAND CANNON.

	IT is quite impossible for one who knew
and loved Brother Abraham to write any-
thing good enough to satisfy one’s self, and
yet one is unwilling to be silent and not
offer a tribute to his memory. He was in-
deed one of “nature’s noblemen”, liberally
endowed with lofty characteristics; not only
those which entitled him to foremost places
among his fellowmen and his brethren in
the Church, but the finer qualities of the
heart which endeared him to all those who
love superior virtues, purity of life, refine-
ment and heavenly charity. “None knew
him but to love him” may truthfully be
said of Brother Abraham.
	So much has already been said by the
very ablest editors and writers, so many
tender and beautiful tributes paid to his
life and character, that one approaches the
subject with great diffidence; and yet the
writer feels in her inmost heart, to cast in
her offering among the many who admired
and felt an exceptional friendship for the
deceased, cut off in the midst of his great
usefulness, when every prospect of future
promise was at its highest and brightest. It
was said in days of old,
	“Whom the gods love die young.”
And surely our Heavenly Father Himself
loved such a one as Elder Cannon; and cer-
tainly His blessing was upon him, for in all he
did and in all that transpired with him he
seemed highly favored and blest of the
Lord. Looking back upon his course from
his boyhood until the time when his spirit
took its departure from mortality, one must
acknowledge his remarkable personality,
which attracted all who came into his
presence. Very few men possess this
personal attraction in as great a degree as
did Brother Abraham. His simplicity of
manner and of language were among his
pleasing traits. He was eloquent in his
public speaking, in plain simple language,
no ostentation, no show of oratory, but
powerfully impressive, straight-forward and
clear in all his sermons and addresses. He
had an intuitive understanding of people,
and therefore knew how to deal tactfully
with individual peculiarities, and eccentri-
cities of men and women with whom he
had business relations, or even casual ac-
quaintance.
	Brother Cannon was more than courteous,
he was naturally an exceedingly gracious
gentleman; beloved by men and women
everywhere, in all places where he had
traveled either on business, or as a mission-

[Column 2]
ary. The people and the Latter-day Saints
who knew him most intimately, and real-
zed his arduous labors and the heavy
burdens and responsibilities that rested up-
on him, had no thought of his dying; it
seemed remote from the minds of all. To
be sure he was sometimes warned that he
was doing too much, but still there seemed
more and more given him to do, and he
was ever and always willing. He possessed
business capacity in a very unusual degree,
and all public and private interests pros-
pered in his hands by means of his thrift,
diligence and successful management. But
say what we will, extol him as we may, he
has gone, and we shall see him no more in
this life. The young Elders in Israel
would do well to follow in his footsteps, to
emulate his example, to be as true, as
honest, as faithful and as obedient to coun-
sel and to the laws of God, as was this
young and valiant hero, in the battle of
life. His name and fame will live forever
in the hearts of this people, and his child-
ren have a heritage far more precious than
gold, or silver, or precious gems, or houses,
or lands, or other worldly possessions; the
unsullied life of an Elder in Israel, an
Apostle of Christ, whose example he sought
to follow; verily, “A good name is better to
be chosen than great riches.”
	Abraham Hoagland Cannon was born
in Salt Lake City, March 12, 1859; his
parents were George Q. and Elizabeth
Hoagland Cannon. President Cannon was
away in the Eastern States upon a mission
at the time of his birth. In his boyhood he
had the best advantages of school educa-
tion the times afforded in the ward schools,
and afterwards at the Deseret University.
He was naturally studious, and made good
use of his opportunities.
	His first mission was to Europe, and he
labored first in the Nottingham Conference
in England, until he was assigned to the
Swiss and German mission, where he
labored assiduously and converted many to
the truth of the Gospel; he became quite
“proficient in the German language, and
wrote some of the hymns which the Ger-
man Saints now sing in their congregations.”
He returned home in June 1882. His
mother died while he was absent upon this
mission.
	“On the 9th of October 1892, Elder Can-
non was ordained one of the First Seven
Presidents of Seventies, and on October 6,
1889, he was sustained at the General Con-
ference of the Church as one of the Twelve
Apostles. From that time he has been the
jnnior member of the Council of Apostles.”
	In all the duties pertaining to his calling and
ministry in the Church, he was scrupulously
exact and faithful; his fidelity and integrity
to the truth and in every relation of life,
are unquestioned and unquestionable. The
persecution borne by the Saints at the time
of the enforcement of the Edmund’s law,
he endured without a murmur; and his
heroic conduct on the occasion of his sen-
tence, and the explanation made to the
Judge, as published in the Deseret News,
from which we have copied it here, fully
illustrates his views, and is abundant testi-
mony of the sincerity of his sublime faith
in the principle of the Gospel for which he
was to suffer imprisonment.
	“As illustrative of his zeal and fidelity to
the Gospel may be cited an incident in
connection with the imprisonment referred
to, when he gave expression to views
characteristic of his whole life in its highest

[Column 3]
integrity to his convictions of right. He
had entered into the order of plural mar-
riage, and on March 17, 1886, being at that
time twenty-six years of age, he was sen-
tenced by Judge Zane to a term of six
months in the penitentiary for his obser-
vance of that law of God. When called to
receive the judgment of the court he said:”
	“I would like to state, your honor, that I have
always endeavored to keep the laws of the United
States, because I have been taught by my parents
that the Constitution was a sacred instrument.
That I have failed in this respect, and now stand
before you convicted of the crime of unlawful co-
habitation, is due to the fact that I acknowledge
a higher law than that of man, which is the law
of God; and that law being a part of my religion,
sir, I have attempted to obey it. When I em-
braced this religion, I promised to place all that I
had, even to life itself, upon the altar, and I ex-
pect to abide by that covenant which I made
and, sir, I hope the day will never come when I
must sacrifice principle, even to procure life or
liberty. Honor, sir, to me, is higher than any-
thing else upon the earth; and my religion is
dearer to me than anything else that I have yet
seen. I am prepared, sir, for the judgment of
the court.”
	Brother Cannon’s illness and death have
cast a gloom over the community, and it
will be some time before his friends (even
outside the family) recover from the shock;
but the Saints know what it is to bow to
the Providence of God in the greatest sor-
row, and acknowledge the hand of the
Lord in the death however sudden, of their
beloved ones, though taken as Brother
Abraham was in the prime of life, with his
bright and spotless armor on, full of zeal,
of courage, and of hope. And though we
mourn his absence and deeply feel his loss, 
yet we are comforted for as Paul says,
	“But I would not have you to be ignorant,
brethren, concerning them which are asleep,
that ye sorrow not as others thvt have no hope.”
	Apostle Abraham H. Cannon departed
this life, at his home in Cannon Ward, Salt
Lake City, July 19, 1896, at fifteen minutes
after four o’clock in the morning of the
Sabbath day. His funeral services were
held in the large Tabernacle in this City on
the following Sunday, July 26. The dec-
orations at the Tabernacle were very
elaborate and elegant. White crepe draped
tastefully and looped with cord and tassel
in the most graceful way on the stands
and the pillars near, as well as the great
organ. Ornamental flowers and shrubs
adorned the stands and platform in all the
available places. Tributes of flowers in
artistic designs came from many of the
relatives and friends. Several of the floral
pieces were surmounted with white doves
emblematic of the purity of the life of the
deceased. The effect of the whole was
loveliness itself, and surpassed anything
ever before attempted in the building, at
any time.
	The seating arrangements were as perfect
as possible; officers and employees of com-
panies and organizations of which Brother
Cannon was a member, were seated at the
right of the center aisle; the family and re-
latives with President George Q. Cannon,
(the father) at the head in the seats at the
left of the center aisle. There was no dis-
play of mourning apparel by any of the
family, and there was no need, for their
grief was too intense for outward sem-
blance.
	In the stand of the First Presidency were
Presidents Wilford Woodruff and Joseph
F. Smith, Patriarch John Smith, and of the
Apostles, President Lorenzo Snow, Elders


[Column 1]
F. D. Richards and H. J. Grant. The
next stand was occupied by Elders Brigham
Young, J. H. Smith, F. M. Lyman, Geo.
Teasdale, J. W. Taylor and M. W. Mer-
rill of the Quorum of the Apostles and
Elder Moses Thatcher who came in later,
and Elder Jos. E. Taylor and C. W. Pen-
rose of the Salt Lake Stake Presidency.
On the third stand were the Presiding
Council of Seventies and of High Priests
Quorums, and on the fourth, the Presid-
ing Bishopric and others.
	The casket was placed in the center of
the front platform between the floral em-
blems, and on the elegant white casket
were some of the most beautiful pale and
delicately arranged flowers. And one
could not help realizing these touching
lines of the poet,
	“AFTER the burden snd heat of the day,
		The starry calm of night;
	After the rough and toilsome way,
		A sleep in the robe of white.”
	The funeral was conducted under the
auspices of the quorum of the Twelve
Apostles, President Lorenzo Snow presid-
ing. Elder H. J. Grant announced the
opening hymn (reading the first verse,)
“The Resurrection Day.” A most sublime
prayer was offered by Elder F. D. Richards.
Mrs. Nellie Druce Pugsley sang the well
know soprano solo from the Messiah,
“I know that my Redeemer liveth. ”
	President Lorenzo Snow was the first
speaker, and he paid a glowing tribute to
the departed Apostle.
	The venerable President of the Church,
Wilford Woodruff, who spoke next, opened
his discourse with the words “Blessed are
the dead which die in the Lord from hence-
forth; yea, saith the Spirit, that they may
rest from their labors, and their works do
follow them.” His voice was clear and
yet one detected the tone of inward grief in
the intonation. He spoke reverently and
tenderly of the father, President George Q.
Cannon, and affectionately of the wives and
children and of the principle through and
by which he had received them, and ex-
horted them to be faithful and resigned,
and closed his remarks after occupying
about fifteen minutes in speaking sympa-
thetically and blessing them all and said:
“I hope and trust we may all pursue that
course that we may be justified and prepared
to pass to the other side of the vail as he
has done; God grant it for Christ’s sake,
Amen.”
	Brother R. C. Easton the famous tenor,
then sang to the organ accompaniment by
Prof. Daynes, that favorite invocation by
our beloved sister and poet, Eliza R. Snow,
“O my Father.”
	President Jos. F. Smith though deeply
affected delivered an eloquent discourse
enumerating the many arduous labors,
and characteristic virtues of the deceased,
and appealed to the congregation to follow
his righteous example and labor as diligent-
ly in the cause of Christ as he had done.
He read a portion of a Revelation from the
Doctrine and Covenants given through
Joseph Smith, the prophet, to the people of
the world in this dispensation, which com-
mences with, 
	“Behold mine house is a house of order, saith
the Lord God, and not a house of confusion.”
“Will I accept of an offering, saith the Lord,
that is not made in my name!” “Or will I re-
ceive at your hands that which I have not ap-
pointed!”

[Column 2]
	After President Smith finished his ser-
mon which occupied the remainder of the
afternoon, Horace Ensign and the choir
sang the Anthem.
		“When the soul is sad and weary,
		Seek relief in prayer.”
	The funeral procession was in charge of
a special Committee, General R. W. Young
being Marshal. Held’s band in neat uni-
forms were at the head of the column, and
carriages containing the Authorities of the 
Church, including Presidents Woodruff
and Smith and the Apostles, first, then the 
hearse; next the families; a beautiful sight
were the children in the large Drag, Utah,
all in white;—the procession was over a
mile in length and the streets were lined on
both sides the entire distance to the grave-
yard with people. The cemetery was also
packed with those who were anxious to
show their love and respect for one so high-
ly esteemed. When the casket had been
lowered, a quartette led by H. G. Whitney
sang
		“Rest, rest for the weary soul.”
	Elder F. M. Lyman offered the dedi-
catory prayer—and the grave of the depart-
ed was covered and literally embowered in
flowers. Elder H. J. Grant extended the
thanks of the family to all who had assisted
in their hour of sorrowing bereavement.
	May the consolation of the Holy Spirit be
and abide with those who mourn, and
above all may they seek to reconcile them-
selves to the rulings of an All Wise Provi-
dence, and strive to do the work he has left
unfinished inasmuch as it is possible, rely-
ing upon Him who sees even the sparrows
fall, and who has promised never to leave
or forsake those who put their trust in Him.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
EDITORIAL NOTES.

	IT is most earnestly requested by the
President of the Relief Society, Sister Zina
D. H. Young, that each Stake of Zion or-
ganized, should send forthwith a complete
list of the Stake officers of said Society, and
the name of every President and Secretary
in the Stake with the name of the Ward
where such officers have charge of Society, and
the Post Office address of each, so that
there may be a complete list for reference
published. It is now about six months
since this request was first made, and only
twenty have reported. Stake Secretaries
who have not sent will please take notice,
and send in a complete list according to
these directions immediately. Address the
Secretary, Mrs. E. B. Wells, Constitution
Building, Salt Lake City.
	OUR readers and patrons will please take
notice that classes in obstetrics will com-
mence in October, and in this connection
we wish to say a few words in favor of this
study and training. The sisters whose
advertisements appear in our columns, are
reliable women, and proficient in the medi-
cal profession. They are women of ability
and well known in the community and
throughout the State. There is great
need of competent help in the outside
settlements, and women adapted to this
line of work should prepare themselves
thoroughly before undertaking to practice;
and there is now no excuse for ignorance
in this respect. Every facility possible is
available, and women who study and quali-
fy themselves for this profession are pub-
lic benefactors to mankind.

[Column 2]
	Romania B. Pratt, M. D., was the first
woman from Utah to graduate in medicine
and surgery. She studied in the Woman’s
Medical College in Philadelphia, and re-
ceived her Diploma in 1877. She practised
one summer in the New England Woman’s
Hospital, and made herself familiar with
the Elmira Water Cure establishment in
New York, as well as others in different
places. Her success has proven her careful
and efficient. Dr. Pratt also took special
courses in the eye and ear under some of
the best practitioners in New York City.
Dr. Pratt was seven years resident physi-
cian in the Deseret Hospital, and her stand-
ing is well known to the Medical Board of
Salt Lake.
	Dr. Maggie C. Shipp stands high in her
profession; she graduated in the Woman’s
Medical College in Philadelphia, in 1879,
and has met with excellent success in the
profession she has chosen for her life work.
She is without doubt specially well
adapted to give instruction, as all her
students testify to her aptitude in this
particular. She is a woman of great
strength of character and splendid physique,
well calculated to inspire confidence in
her patients and in those who study in her
classes. She has traveled extensively in
Utah and adjacent states and territories,
giving lectures and teaching classes. She
has had a wide range of experience in this
way which is helpful in her work to those
who come for instruction.
	IN a letter just received from Miss Susan
B. Anthony, President of the National
Suffrage Association, she expresses great
anxiety in reference to the vote of the wo-
men of Utah at this first election.
She feels that the course taken here is
going to have a great bearing upon the
question in other States and as a whole.
Her advice is precisely in accordance with
that we shall give wherever and whenever
we have occasion or opportunity to speak
upon this question. Be sure whatever we
do will help or hinder the cause elsewhere;
if the women of this State are wise discreet,
judicious and conservative, if they stand for
the best men and women in the party to
which they give their preference, and are
true to their honest convictions, then their
influence will be powerful for good. But
every woman of proper age who is entitled
to vote, should cast her vote at the coming
election, and help in this critical time to
assist in maintaining the principles she
believes conscientiously to be for the best
good of the country.


IN THE DEAR DEFUNCT DESERET
HOSPITAL.

    IT was a  very  unpretentious  old  adobe
building, but it was there my life was saved
on March 18th, 1891.
    Through the kindness of the Gunnison
R. S., to whose credit some donations in
years past had been placed, I was sent
there for treatment.
	Drs. J. M. Benedict  and S. B. Young
performed an operation which relieved me
of two large ovarian tumors,  weighing 35
pounds; and so skillfully did they do their
work that I not only did not feel the oper-
ation in the least, but in ten days I was up
and improved right along; and through the
excellent nursing and diet I received there,
in 25 days after the operation I was able to


walk out of that, to me, so memorable
place.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt was resident phy-
sician at this time and was very able and
kind to the sick. The nurses and attend-
ants were both cheerful and helpful. I
remember there was a young brother there
his name was George Blanton or Blan-
thorne. He would sing for and pray with
the sick, as the case might be, and was of-
ten called to the bedside of the sick to
administer to them.
	It is to be hoped that in some future day
we will have another Deseret Hospital, or
some such institution where the same spirit
reigns, established again.
	And I feel that I must give Drs. Bene-
dict and Young, this all too tardy acknow-
ledgement. They knew, for I had told
them, that I had nothing to pay them with.
But that made no difference to those two
noble men. They treated me with as much
delicacy and consideration as if they had
been prepaid a royal sum.
	The hand of Dr. Benedict may tremble
now—but that same trembling hand has
done much to bless the poor as well as
those who were able to pay.
	Once of my boys was struck in the
face by a horse, receiving a large ugly
wound. He was taken in the patrol
wagon to one of the large hospitals in Salt
Lake City. He lay there for many hours
without anything being done for him, as
they did not know who was going to pay
for it. After he regained consciousness he
called for Dr. Benedict, who took his case
in hand and charged nothing. The same
boy was stricken down with typhoid fever,
and the same kind Dr. Benedict went every
day in his own conveyance to 12th East,
until he (to use the Dr’s. term) “pulled
him through. ” But he charged nothing
for it.
	I have heard the names of Drs. Bene-
dict and Young mentioned in connection
with such other deeds of unselfishness and
benevolence, which none but God can fit-
tingly reward. And they know that such
reward is sure.
	And our sweet gentle Dr. Ellis R. Shipp.
I shall never forget her kindness to me in
my distress. To those who may be afflict-
ed as I was, let me say, do not hesitate to
call in surgical help. For although we
have no Deseret Hospital, and we may
have very few Benedicts and Youngs
yet we have able and efficient physicians in
all our cities and towns, who are able if
called upon in time, to save a life, which
in my case was very near too late.
			THOMINE EINARSON.
Gunnison, July 27, 1896.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


<div>[Column 1]</div>LADIES’ SEMI-MONTHLY MEETING.
	Synopsis of the Minutes of the meeting
held in the Fourteenth Ward Hall, Satur-
day, May 15, 1896, President M. I.
Horne presiding. Singing “Our God we
raise to Thee’’, prayer by Sister M. O.
Brown, singing, “Welcome best of all
good meetings’’, Minutes of the previous
meeting read and approved. President
Horne addressed the sisters a short time;
spoke of the power of the adversary, but
felt we must be humble and acknowledge
the hand of the Lord in all His dealings
with His people; called upon Sister Alder
to give a description of her visit with the
Tabernacle choir to San Francisco. The
secretary of the Primary Association of the

[Column 2]
15th Ward then read her minutes. Sister
Alder told of her anxiety to go to Cali-
fornia as she had never visited there and
her parents at one time resided in San
Francisco. When the company pulled out
of the depot they were a happy crowd, and
felt the Spirit of the Lord was with them.
The reception of the choir at Oakland at
the first concert when they sang the
Hallelujah Chorus, was an ovation, the
audience rose to their feet. It certainly
seemed to be appreciated there more than
here at home; thought the prayers of those
at home were being answered. Refered to
the sermon of Apostle Heber J. Grant,
had never heard anything like it—it was
grand; some of the choir had remarked
that if no one in San Francisco was con-
verted, that they themselves were, and
they wanted on their return home to live
their religion. The speaker refered to the
great good the missionaries there were
doing; urged the sisters never to forget that
the Gospel is true.
	Sister B. W. Smith spoke of trusting
and sustaining our leaders; refered to the
little babe whose mother had died on the
Islands and who had been brought home
by the returning missionaries; felt that
there was a great destiny for that child.
She also exhorted the sisters to greater
diligence, and urged them to take more
interest in Temple work, and to keep the
Sabbath day holy; asked the Lord to bless
us all. Sister Alder added a few words
about the sisters in California who were
desirous of having an organization of the
Relief Society.
	Counselor Stevenson made a few re-
marks and spoke of her trip to Europe
several yeare ago, and of the
treatment she received from the pilot’s
wife when she found out that she was a
Mormon; remarked there was great need of
missionary work here at home, she had
given up every thing for her religion; felt
the need of our prayers for our young mis-
sionaries. Realized that God had changed
the hearts of the people of the world to-
wards us; knew that trials were to make
us humble, fasting and prayer would bring
a blessing; urged all to be faithful.
	Some other sisters in the congregation
bore excellent testimonies. The sisters
joined in singing “The Spirit of God” etc.
Sister Elizabeth Paul bore testimony that
while the hymn was being sung she felt
the influence of the Holy Spirit powerfully,
and a voice spoke to her, and she bore a
strong testimony of the truth of the Gospel.
Another sister bore testimony of the Word
of Wisdom, and Sister M. J. Smallie also
testified of the truth and refered to her
early experiences in the Church in Scot-
land. Related a dream she had about
a young man who had died and who ap-
peared to her and wanted to be officiated
for in the Temple; felt she wanted to
acknowledge God’s blessings to her.
	Presldent Horne closed with a few words
of blessing, Singing Doxology, prayer by
Counselor Elizabeth Webb.
				ZINA HYDE, Sec.

	SYNOPSIS of Minutes of Semi-Monthly
Meeting held Saturday, June 23, 1896,
President M. I. Horne presiding. Opened
by singing "There may all the faithful be”
prayer by Counselor E. Webb, singing "O
awake my slumbering minstrel,” Minutes
of previous meeting read and approved.
President Horne spoke of the Primary Con[-]

[Column 3]
ference convening that day, and being the
cause of the secretary’s absence; loved to
listen to the children, thought it very im-
portant that mothers should see that the
children attended the Primary, for if they
were not properly taught parents would be
under condemnation. Mothers should
consider this training of the children their
chief duty, sow good seed in their young
minds, for what they learned in childhood
would never be forgotten; for herself she
felt an interest in every thing that tended
to elevate and bless woman and humanity.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball thought the
time was precious. President Brigham
Young said he always felt a timidity in
arising to his feet to speak, he thought
why this was so, was that he saw a gleam
of the Deity in the eye of each one before
him. Heber C. Kimball always spoke on
the subject most on his mind, and in this
respect she was like him; Genealogy was
uppermost on her mind, she felt to speak
upon that, and to urge the necessity of
that work; made some excellent sugges-
tions. Sister Elmina S. Taylor, spoke of
her recent visit to the Conference at Tooele;
while there the Bishop said he thought
there was nothing that went ahead of the
Relief Society, and she then dwelt upon the
great good that had been accomplished
through that organization; thought we
should not be chary of kind words and little
kind deeds, they cost so little, but mean so
much; every heart knows its own sorrow,
and God knows us so well that He gave us
strength to bear the burdens put upon us.
Exhorted the sisters to greater faithfulness
and diligence. A sister related how her
grandson had been healed by the prayers
offered in that place at a previous meeting;
felt to thank God for His goodness. Sister
Rawlings, Aird, Barrow and other sisters
bore precious testimonies and gave wise
counsel. Counselor E. J. Stevenson spoke
of her recent visit to Sanpete Stake in
company with Sister Zina D. H. Young,
and the grand time they had, how the
Spirit of the Lord was poured out in rich
abundance. Sister Mary Ann Hyde
though eighty years of age, presided at the
Conference with the dignity of a queen.
Sister Hyde’s 80th birthday was publicly
celebrated by the people in a grand feast of
both temporal and spiritual things. She
was presented with a very handsome gold
watch and chain, as a token of their love and
respect for her, and in appreciation of her
labors in that County. Sister Stevenson
spoke feelingly and gratefully of the great
kindness shown them by Presidents Peter-
son, Mc’Allister and Maiben; these brethren
did everything in their power to make the
Conference a success and to help the sisters;
said it was an occasion long to be remem-
bered.
	Sisters Brown and Nunn, also Sister
Julia C. Howe spoke beautifully of the
work and urged redoubled efforts on behalf
of the children of Zion; were anxious we
should progress and prove faithful. Sisters
Hannah Conklin and Mary Sawyer Snow
bore their testimony of the Gospel and
testified to the goodness of God to them.
President Horne in a few appropriate
remarks closed the meeting and gave
notice of the Quarterly Conference of the
sisters, on June 27, which would be ob-
served as a memorial day in remembrance of
the martyrdom of the Prophet and Patri-
arch, Joseph and Hyrum Smith. Singing
“The time is far spent”, benediction by
Lydia D. Alder.		Zina Hyde, Sec.


SYNOPSIS of Semi-Monthly Meeting held
Saturday, July 11, 1896, Counselor E. J.
Stevenson presiding. Singing “Where the
voice of friendship’s heard” prayer by Julia
C. Howe, singing “Welcome” etc. Min-
utes of previous meeting read and accepted.
Sister Stevenson regretted the absence of
the beloved President and spoke encourag-
ingly to those present.
	Counselor B. W. Smith spoke of her
recent visit to Nephi, where she attended
the Sisters Conference, and mentioned the
arrival of Sister Horne; made excellent
suggestions to the sisters. Singing “We
thank Thee O God.”
	Counselor E. Webb felt this was a time
when we should feel very humble and live
near the Lord and put our trust in God
continually. Sister Rawlings made a few
appropriate remarks, expressing her faith
and joy in the Gospel.
	Sister M. W. Wilcox and Sister M.
Francis, Sister Plant, Sister Waterfall and
Sister Cornell, each bore testimony to the
truth and related some experiences; touched
upon many good subjects calculated to edify
and stimulate to good works. Sister Lucy
B. Young testified to answers to prayers,
felt to prophesy of Sister Zina’s great work
when she was called to preside over the
Relief Society. She also spoke in the gift
of tongues and interpreted it herself.
	Sister Lydia D. Alder exhorted those
who were in great sorrow to cast their bur-
dens upon the Lord, it was His way of
bringing them to Him. Felt the time
would soon come when we should know
why these things were; alluded to many
prophecies that had been made by Brigham
Young which were being fulfilled now
	President Horne explained why she was
late, she was detained by sickness; alluded
to some startling prophecies by Apostle
Parley P. Pratt in regard to Jackson
County; also spoke very impressively upon
charity, and said Satan had no power over
our thoughts but he had over our words;
a fault-finding spirit was not a happy one.
Mentioned the Relief Society excursion to
Saltair and hoped it would be a success.
Prayed that the Spirit of the Gospel might
be and abide with us. Singing Doxology, 
benediction by Counselor Clara Cannon.
				ZINA Y. HYDE Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.		23


R. S. REPORT.
		BINGHAM STAKE.
Dear Sister:
	THINKING a sketch of our late Conference
held at Iona, June 13, 1896, might be in-
teresting, we thought we would write a 
few lines for we felt highly honored by
having present with us Apostle F. D. 
Richards and Sister Zina D. H. Young,
and also Sister J. S. Richards.
	After going through with the general 
exercises President E. J. Bennett said she
was more than pleased in having present
with us one of the Apostles and our be-
loved sisters, and also Brother Stevens, and 
we would do away with our verbal reports;
stated that the Stake officers of the Relief
Society had just visited nearly every Society
in this Stake and found them in a prosper-
ous condition.
	President Zina D. H. Young instructed
mothers to encourage the reading of the
Book of Doctrine and Covenants in their
families, spoke some on the organization of 
the Relief Society and said we should learn
to love one another. Referred to the great


work that was being done in the Temple,
and also the great responsibility resting
upon us in doing the work for our dead;
spoke of the great work the Society was
doing, urged the sisters to be earnest in
prayer; Sister Young had heard the Prophet
Joseph say if we would be diligent in
prayer we would never lose the faith.
Gave many good instructions, and among
others did not forget the storing of grain.
Sister Monch of Ogden, then spoke a short
time to the sisters and gave many good
instructions.
	Sister Jane S. Richards then spoke to
the sisters, compared the great blessings
we have to day with the hardships in the
early days of the Church, and said in look-
ing upon the intelligent faces before her
and the bright prospects we have in the
future, she felt encouraged; urged us to
exercise a spirit of love and charity
especially to the sick and poor. Referred
to many of her experiences in the church.
Felt to desire that we might have a house
built and dedicated to the Lord. Apostle
Richards said these Societies were of great
interest to him, and he said how necessary
it was that man and woman should work
constantly together and that woman was to
partake of the blessings conferred upon
man; gave much encouragement and good
advice to all present, Brother Stevens
spoke of the great success the sisters had
made in storing grain, and also of the time
that we might need it.
	President Ricks of the Bannock Stake
and President Steel of Bingham Stake,
and Patriarch Hinckley and President
Bennett gave some very timely counsel and
encouraged the sisters in the Relief Society
work. 		E. J. BENNETT, Secretary


IN MEMORIAM.
		SUSANNAH MORTENSEN.
	RESOLUTIONS of Respect, by the officers and
members of the W. H. P. R. class of Brigham
City, to the memory of our departed sister,
Susannah Mortensen, who died January 29, 1896,
at the age of 39 years.
	Whereas, The hand of the Almighty has seen fit
to take to Himself our beloved sister and class-
mate, Susannah Mortensen, who was always
faithful in the cause of right, full of charity
and humility and long suffering. Therefore be
it
	Resolved, That we deeply mourn the loss of a
sincere worker, and tender our sympathies to the
children and relatives of the deceased.
	Resolved, That in our natural sorrow for the
loss of a devoted laborer, we find consolation in
the knowledge that it is well with her for whom
we mourn. Indeed though we miss her we can
but say—she was prepared to enter the bright
Celestial Shore.
	Resolved, That her loss is not only felt by the
W. H. P. R. class, but also the Relief Society,
Sunday School, Primary and all the associations
with which she was connected.

She is not dead—she dwells on that bright shore
	where angels tread
That bear our best loved things away, and then
	we call them dead.

	Resolved that these resolutions be published
in the WOMAN'S EXPONENT and also recorded in
the records of the W. H. P. R. Association, and
that one copy be tendered to her children.
	Maggie Rohwer, Mary Nelson, Melina Peters,
Emeline Watkins, Committee.

		BIOGRAPHY OF EMMA BURROWS.
	SISTER EMMA BURROWS was born Dec. 10,
1840, in Granthane, Lincolnshire, England. Her
father’s name was James Roberts and her
mother’s name was Abagal Leeson. She was
baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-
day Saints in Granthane. She was married to
Joseph Burrows on May 14, 1857, she emigrated to
Utah, May 6, 1863, arrived in Salt Lake City Oct.
3, 1863. She removed to Ogden Valley in 1865 
taking up her labor in the Relief Society as
teacher until 1876, when she was sustained as
Secretary, which place she occupied until her
death.
	She succeeded Sister Moselle Hall as Presi-
dent of the Young Ladies Association in 1885,
which position she also occupied until her death.
	She was the mother of nine children, six are
left to mourn her loss. She also raised an infant
of F. A. Hammond’s which was left without a
mother.
	She died May 4, 1896, at Huntsville Utah.
		RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT
Passed by the Y. L. M. I. Association. Huntsville
			May 30, 1896- 
	WHEREAS, The Omnipotent Ruler of the uni-
verse has, in His infinite wisdom, called from us
our useful and much esteemed Sister Emma
Burrows, and
	WHEREAS, Her position as President of the Y.
L. M. I. A. held during so many years, makes it
fitting for us to record our appreciation of her
untiring efforts devoted to our welfare, therefore
be it
	RESOLVED, That the vacancy in this Society,
caused by her sudden departure, will be deeply
realized by all members of the Association, and
will prove a grevious loss to our organization as
well as to the ward in which she has proven her-
self a useful and much appreciated leader.
	RESOLVED, That with deep sympathy with the
bereaved family and friends of the deceased, we
express an earnest hope that even under such
trying circumstances they will be comforted and
acknowledge the hand of God in their bereave-
ment. 
	RESOLVFD, That a copy of these resolutions be
sent to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT, one sent to the
members of the family, and that they be recorded
in the records of the Association.

Sister Emma true and faithful,
	Thou hast left us gone before.
Although thou’rt numbered with the faithful,
	Thy works shall live for evermore.
					MARA WANGAGARD.

	DIED at her home in Manti, April 22, 1896,
Sister Ann Cook Parsons. Sister Parsons was
born June 1, I823, at Stanford Bridge, Shrop-
shire, England. She was married to Henry
Parsons May 3, 1849, received the Gospel in 1850.
Emigrated to America in 1853, arrived at New
Orleans after a voyage of six weeks, ascended
the Mississippi to Koekuk intending to
continue their journey to Zion, but Sister Parsons
was attacked by rheumatism which so far dis-
abled her that she was unable to travel, conse-
quently she and her husband located at Koekuk,
where they remained until the Spring of 1862,
when they once more took up their line of march
toward the setting sun, traveling with an ox
team and making the entire trip from Koekuk to
Manti in thirteen weeks.
	Sister Parsons was the mother of ten children,
only one of whom survives her, seven having
died in infancy. Her only son was killed some
years ago by a fall from his horse, and on the
death of her eldest daughter some eleven years
ago who left a large family, she adopted the
baby upon whom she bestowed a mother’s teuder
care up to the time of her decease.
	Sister Parsons was a woman of sterling integ-
rity and possessed a deep and abiding faith in the
Gospel for which she had left home and kind-
red.
	She was also generous and benevolent in dispo-
sition, and was ever ready to respond to every
call for means to aid in the spread of the Gos-
pel. She also donated liberally to the Temple
and the Relief Society of which she was a faithful
and efficient teacher for many years.
	In her death the poor and unfortunate have
lost a liberal and sympathetic friend, her hus-
band a faithful and self-sacrificing wife, and her
surviving daughter, and her motherless grand-
children a wise and loving counselor. She was
unassuming and unostentatious in manner and
disposition, fully carrying out the scriptural injunc-
tion‘‘Let not thy right hand know what thy left 
hand doeth.”
During the later years of her life she was a
great sufferer from asthma, although the imme-
diate cause of her death was heart failure.
	She has gone to receive her reward for her
faithfulness in a long and well spent life,
chastened by affliction and glorified by kindly
deeds. Of her it can truthfully be said “Her
works do follow her.”,
May she rest in peace. 		A. L. C.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1] 
WOMAN’S WORK AND WOMAN’S 
ENDEAVOR. 

Editor Woman's Journal:
	IT may be of interest to your readers to
know that the Committee of the “Inter-
national Congress for Woman’s Work and
Woman’s Endeavor”—to be heid in Berlin,
has received notice of adherence from
association in America, France, England,
Belgium, Holland, Norway, Sweden, Rus-
sia, Italy, Switzerland and Poland.
Delegates are expected to be present from
all these countries, and the discussion of
economic, sociological and educational
questions will doubtless be of interest to all
present. Certificates of participation will
be at the rate of five marks ($1.19), and
are obtainable from the secretary, Frau
Lena Morgenstern, or from Frau Minna
Cauer, editress of “Die Frauenbewegung"
—from which journal I glean this infor-
mation.
	The International Congress of Women
held in Paris in May, developed somewhat
into a socialistic Congress, owing, per-
chane, to the fact that the French people
do not as yet realize that there is great
earnestness of purpose in the work of the
woman of the present day. Be her api-
tude economics, literature, science, medi-
cine or politics, the woman of the period
intends to hold her own—even if the stu-
dent of the Latin Quarter objects—and to
present her subject with open doors, so that
there will be free discussion.
	This year the German women take the
lead in the discussion of subjects of inter-
national interest; next year there is to be a
Congress in Belgium. The gradual pro-
gress in parliamentary ruling, and in the
elevated tone of the papers presented at our
own National Council of Women, at our
own Federation of Women’s Clubs, all in-
dicate that the more conservative element
dominates, and that there is gain in the
ranks of woman workers outside of their
own Lares and Penates.
	At the meeting of the League of the
International Press Clubs, first held in
Buffalo, two members of the Woman’s
National Press Association became active
workers in that body—Mrs. E. S. Crom-
well being made one of the Vice-Presidents,
and Mrs. O’Donoghue being placed on the
Executive Committee. Again your cor-
respondent has the honor of being a mem-
ber of the International Committee for the
“Internationaler Congress fur Frauenwerke
and Frauenbestrebungen in Berlin” above
referred to, and as a delegate is to present a
paper on “Woman’s progress in America”
(being written in German, its title is “Die
Frauenbewegungen in den Vereinigten-
Staaten”) before the body in September.
	The able paper of Mrs. Henrotin, at the
biennial meeting of the Federation—held in
Louisville—has awakened interest wher-
ever and whenever read, and its stirring
words in regard to “woman’s work for
humanity”, will long re-echo in the minds
of those who listened to her, and who long
since recognized her work and that of Mrs.
Palmer in Chicago.
	Two new books have greatly interested
me; the one entitled “Die hohere Frauen-
bildung in Grossbritannien,” by Karl
Heinrich Schaible, presents an historical
record of woman’s achievements in Great
Britain; the other, “Die Sociale Lage der
Frau”, by E. Gnauck-Kuhue, plainly
indicates how much woman has had to con-

[Column 2]
tend with in endeavoring to hold her own
as regards social, economic and industrial
conditions.
	The “Vita Femminile”, published since
July 1, 1895, in Rome, Italy, deals almost
entirely with the woman question in Italy.
it is edited by Prof. Guiseppe D’Aguanno
and others. While first issued quarterly
it now appears monthly, and its latest
numbers indicate that woman not only has
university privileges—a fact quite well
known—but that she is acquiring recog-
nized positions in post, telegraph and
telephone offices, which must seem rather a
novelty out of record with the dolce far-
niente life of the majority of women of
Southern climes.
	FRANCES GRAHAM FRENCH.
Washington, D. C. July 10, 1896. Ex.


UTAH SCHOOL FOR THE BLIND.

	IN September next there will be opened
in Ogden, in conection with the State
School for the Deaf and Dumb, the State
School for the Blind.
	This school will be free to all children
whose sight is too defective to allow of suc-
cessful work in public schools. That the
management of the school may know at an
early date how many children of this class
are likely to attend, it is important that all
parents or guardians of such children com-
municate at once with the Superintendent
who will furnish application blanks, and
any other information needed.
	Persons knowing of blind (or deaf-mute)
children will confer a favor by sending
their addresses to Frank W. Metcalf,
Superintendent, Salt Lake City Utah.
	The State School for the Blind and the
State School for the Deaf and Dumb, have
been amply provided for. The Genera
Government gave each of them 100,000
acres of land. This land when sold will
provide for them a permanent endowment.
The State has given these schools the
buildings and grounds formerly occupied
by the Reform School. [The Reform
School is being moved to a new location.]
These buildings occupy a commanding and
healthful site in the city of Ogden. They
are now being altered and refitted to accom-
modate the needs of the state schools above
mentioned. Teachers of special experience
in this work have been engaged for all
departments. The course of study com-
prises a thorough common school course.
In the department for the deaf it fits pupils
entrance to the National (Gallandet) Col-
lege for the Deaf, Washington D. C. [Two
pupils of the school successfully passed the
college examination in June last.] Besides
the above a thorough course in trade
instruction is given, fitting the pupils on
completing the course to become at once
self-supporting and useful citizens.
	[NOTE.—The Utah School for the Deaf
and Dumb has won all first prizes for man-
ual training at the Territorial Fairs for the
past seven years.]
	Over fifty blind children of school age
were reported in 1890, and the number has
undoubtedly increased since.


THE first woman who has received the
permission of the Minister of Public In-
struction to attend lectures in the University
of Munich, is Miss Ethel Gertrude Skeate,
daughter of Professor Skeate, the eminent
philologist.


GREAT occasions do not make heroes nor
cowards; they simply unvail them to the
eyes of men.
	THE practice of economy is no disgrace.
it is better living on a little than outliving
a great deal.
	THERE is a pleasure in contemplating
good; there is a greater pleasure in receiv-
ing good, but the greatest pleasure is doing
good, which comprehends the rest.


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
will commence her next class in OBSTETRICS
AND NURSING on Monday. October 12th,
1896, at her residence, 437 E. Second South Street,
Telephone 383. Special arrangements made when
counties send more than one person. The follow-
ing ladies from the doctor’s classes have passed
successful examinations before the State Medical
Board, and received certificates to practice: 
	Annie Calvin, Eden, Weber Co., Utah.
	E. A. Froever, Huntsville, Weber Co., Utah.
	Sarah H. Reed, Woodruff, Rich Co., Utah. 
	Fannie V. Schutt, Meadowville, Rich Co., Utah.
	Lucinda Patten, Payson, Utah Co., Utah. 
	Mary Hond, Benjamin, Utah Co., Utah.
	Annie Tillotson, Ogden City, Weber Co., Utah.
	Mary A. Turner, West Jordan, Salt Lake Co., Utah.
	Carrie Johnson, Union, Salt Lake Co., Utah.
	Annie Thurber, Richfield, Sevier Co., Utah.
	Mary Dewey, Deweyville, Box Elder Co., Utah.
	Minnie Baird, Layton, Davis Co., Utah.
	Sarah White, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Mary Edwards, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Millie Reynolds, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Carrie Anderson, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Mary Higgs, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Biddie Erickson, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Emily Lish, Rockland, Oneida Co., Idaho.

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT will commence
the winter class in midwifery October 7, 1896.
Several situations in small families for board.
Special terms to students sent by the Relief
Society. For further particulars please com-
municate with			DR. PRATT,
		226 Constitution Bldg., Main Street,
				Salt Lake City, Utah.

LOW RATES TO THE EAST.
	Your attention is directed to the exceptionally
low rates in effect this coming season to nearly
every prominent point in the East.
	Never before has such an excellent opportunity
been afforded for a Summer Vacation Tour, or for
visiting friends in the East. We mention below a
few of the places to which greatly reduced rates
have been made. The UNION PACIFIC is the line
it that will give you the best service to any of these
points.
Chicago, Ill., July 7. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Buffalo, N. Y., July 7-11. Rate—One fare for the round trip
	plus $2.00.
Washington, D. C., July 7-13. Rate—One fare for the round
	trip.
Milwaukee, Wis., July 16-19. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Omaha, Neb., July 21-24. Rate—One and one-third fare on
	certificate plan.
St. Louis, Mo., July 22. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Omaha, Neb., August 16-24. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Cleveland, Ohio, August 23-30. Rate—(Probably) one fare for
	the round trip.
Milwaukee, Wis., Aug. 25-27. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
St. Paul, Min., September 1-4. Rate—One fare for the round
	trip (in some cases less).
	For full information as to dates of sale and limit of tickets,
time of trains, etc., call on
		CITY TICKET OFFICE 201 MAIN STREET.
D. E. BURLEY, G. A. P. D.			D. S. TAGGART, T. P. A.

R.K. THOMAS
26, 28, 30 and 32 East 1st South St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.
VOL. 25. 
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, AUGUST 15, 1896.                    No. 4.


CONTENTS:
   Leaves  From  My Journal—Kim.   Notes  And
News.   Memorial Gathering—E.  B. W.   Califor.
nia—Woman's   Journal.   Woman’s   Home—Ex
Autobiagraphy Of Elizabeth L. Hyde.   R. S. And
P. A. Reports.   Miscellaneous. 
   EDITORIAL:—The   Woman’s  Vote.   Editorial
Notes. 

   POETRY:—Friends Of The Press  Club—Orielle
Curtis.     The   Spinet—Minna  Irving.    Remem-
brance—Lydia D. Alder.


FRIENDS OF THE PRESS CLUB. 
	WHILE you pore,
Over themes profound and vast,
Studying legendary lore,
Culling old world fancies o’er,
Tracing dim mysterious score,
Palimpsest from secret store
Cloistered in the whispering past;
Or perchance with thought more wise,
Pondering what directly lies
Under your observant eyes,—
Problems of the hour and day:--
How the brave balloonist tries
Task severe and high emprise,
Bravihg cold tempestuous skies;
How the searching Roentgen ray
Still new wonders brings alway;
Or how ’neath hypnotic sway
Minds from sentient thoughts astray,
Laws occult and strange obey;
Or, while patriotic zeal
Bids you seek the nation’s weal.
*         *         *         *         *         
While in your accustomed places,
You discuss with serious faces,
Themes of pith and weight like these,—
Pause—and place a dash or colon
in the essay good and wise;
Let me show you through my eyes,
Cedars tall and streams that roll on,
Hurrying to distant seas
With their wild sweet symphonies.

Tenderly fingers of evening were folding
Mantles of mist over valley and hill,
The eye in a rapture of beauty beholding
The red bloom of sunset fade softly and still,
When away from fair Utah, where sultry winds
	blow,
We sped as the arrow is shot from the bow,
As the eagle soars swift o’er the meadow be-
	low;—
Where the shriek of the steam sounded wild-
	ly and shrill.
On and still onward: in Eastern skies glowing
The saffron haired Dawn opened portals of
	flame,
Till through their bright arches fresh largess
	bestowing,
The Day King in splendor and majesty came.
Aquiver with gladness earth saw the light rise,
The flowers dried the dew in their tremulous
	eyes
And rang their soft joy-bells in grateful surprise,
Still westward we rolled over mountain and
	plain,

Here canons deep-shaded with crags beetling
	o’er us.
There, pink bloom of orchards that scented the
	breeze;
Now full bosomed rivers shone sparkling before
	us,
Or gleamed through the verdure of wide spread-
	ing trees.
We rushed through fair hamlets, we skirted broad
	plains,
With their rustling of grasses and waving of
	grains,
And paused where fair cities spread wide their
	domains,
Till we hailed the tall ships anchored safe from
	the seas.

How softly Pacific thy blue waves are glancing,
Mid moss vestured islands and silence serene!
So fair and so peaceful in liquid light dancing.
White crested Atlantic rolls billows of green,
What prairies all rustling with corn and with
	wheat,
What hills.where the amber grape clusters grow
	sweet,
What streams tripping seaward with silver shod
	feet,
What orchards and meadows lie smiling between!

Thine, Oh my country, these princely dominions,
Thy treasure-vaults mountains of wealth giving
	ore;
Thy tall masted ships spread their starry-crown
	pinions
And waft their rich gifts to Earth’s uttermost
	shore.
Shall the “land of the brave and the home of the
	free”
England’s vassal and appanage willingly be?
For a fetter of gold shall her statesmen find plea?
Then thy stars shall lead onward and upward no
	more.

So I mused as I sailed o’er the soft silken waters,
Where Puget Sound sings round her velvety
	isles,
And I asked shall the wisdom the ages have
	taught us.
Be vain to protect us from tyranny’s wiles?
But the waves rippled on in their musical glee,
And mirrored the grace of each vine-covered
	tree.
And beauty again seemed new born from the sea
Till thought grew entranced by earth’s magical
	smiles.

And now mydear friends in the hot dusty city,
I wish I could paint you the sylvan retreat,
Where I write at my ease and remember with
	pity
The tired throngs that swelter in fierce summer
	heat,
Think of trees just as far as the vision can go,
Reaching up to the skies in a numberless row,—
Spruce, cedar and fir,—leafy maple below,—
Vines and moss running riot with soft changing
	feet.
Embosomed in beauty imagine a clearing,
With mossy log fortalice circling it round,
Its cabin and garden securely ensphering,—
Here your Press correspondent cool refuge has
	found.
Birds, squirrels and bees join the Skykomish
song,
As the river flows bubbling and laughing along,
Green wave chasing wave in continuous throng,
With the soft grace of motion, the music of sound.

Here lightly the wild duck skims over the
	waters,
Or laves with their coolness her full-feathered
	breast.
From the snow mantled mountains the river has
	brought us,
Their soft dewy breezes, their blessings of rest.
Here awhile it is good the world’s strife to forget;
Its jostling and bustle, its envious fret,
Here nature’s sweet peace soothes life’s pain and
regret,
And hopes Paradise Bird in the heart builds her
	nest.

But friends of the Press Club, I gossip too long,—
Forgive the intrusion, I keow it is wrong;
The curb on my Pegasus needs to be strong,
Or he ambles on ground that to others
	belong.
I read your high Carnival 'neath the green
	shade.
And your glorious 4th with its pomp and
	parade,
With the beauty of Utah in splendor arrayed.
The miners and ranchers and railroad men
	here
Must perforce be content with very plain cheer.
*         *         *         *         *         
Success to the cause and the Press Club as
	well,
Remember with kindness your friend Orielle.

To Curtis I’ve hunted in vain for a rhyme, 
So l leave the last name for more leisurely
	time.


LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.
		Tuesday, Nov. 19, 1895.
	WE left Genoa by mid-day train, and
continuing along the Mediterranean Coast,
still found the scenery imposing. We
passed Chiavari, inclosed by cultivated
hills. It has several old towers, and in the
environs many handsome Villas. Our
guide pointed out the Anchovy fishery.
	We passed the renowned winter resort,
Spezzia, the largest Military seaport in 
Italy. Its ship yard is one of the largest in 
Europe.
	We saw the beautiful Carrara Mountains
in the Appennines, the quarries have been
worked for more than two thousand years.
It is said they were discovered by a herds-
man, and that these quarries furnished the
marble for Caesar’s Palaces.
	At six o’clock we arrived at Pisa. As we
neared the station we could see grouped to-
gether in one corner of the town, the
Cathedral. Baptistry and Leaning Tower.
Taking the diligence we drove to the
Grand Hotel, which was very clean and nice.
We are now away from rose embowered
hotels. This hotel entertains King Hum-
bert when he comes to Pisa. The host
showed us the apartments of the king;
they were very elegant. Our dinner was
excellent, the cooking was delicious.
	Looking from my window on the op-


posite side of the river, was an exqusite 
little marble Morgue. It was built for a
church, and then used for that purpose; the
first time in a strange city I ever saw one
of those places without a shudder. The
Arno reminded me more of one of the large
canals seen at Amsterdam, but an English
lady said to me "you should have seen the
river last week during the rains when it
was full to the brim, and seemed as if it
would tear everything before it.” The
river divides the city into two nearly
equal parts; the quays which run along the
banks are spacious, there are four bridges,
one is of marble.
NOV. 20. After breakfast we drove to
the Cathedral built of marble, which with
the Baptistry and Leaning Tower, is said
to be the finest specimen that exists of the
style called by Italians the Gotico Moresco.
The Cathedral was begun in 1063, conse-
crated in 1118. In 1560 it was nearly de-
stroyed by fire, except the choir, but was
restored. It is 311 feet long, 106 feet wide,
and the nave is 109 feet high. The facade
is magnificent, the interior is exqusite
in finish and very imposing. The bronze doors
were put up in 1602—after the fire, but
one of the earlier ones is to be seen in the
South Aisle. The great bronze lamp which
gave Galileo the idea of the pendulum,
hangs in the nave. We watched it and
could see it swing, but only by looking at
some object near it; then it was very
perceptible. The statues and paintings are
fine. The most remarkable pictures are,
Andrea del Sarto ‘‘St. Cecilia” ‘‘St. Peter”
and ‘‘St. Agnes.” There were two exqui-
site Madonnas, but I could not learn by
whom. The campanile or belfry, is the
most curious, a cylindrical tower of 178
feet in height, graceful in proportions and
constructed of successive rows of marble
pillars, remarkable for its inclination,
thirteen feet out of the perpiudicular,
from whence the name, Leaning Tower,
and also why it is called one of the
seven wonders of the world. The Tower
has a  peal of seven bells, the heaviest
weighing six tons.
	The Baptistry, completed in 1278, is
about 100 feet in diameter, and the height
of the dome 190 feet. The pulpit, the
masterpiece of Nicola Pesano’ (1260) and
the fount, quite as beautiful, would pay
you for the illness of the voyage, just to see
them. A priest gave us the wonderful
echo; first pianissimo, then in rich full
tones; it answered in the same rich tones.
	The Campo Santo, completed in 1283, is
a large oblong building or corridor, enclos-
ing the ‘‘holy ground” which contains
many shiploads of earth brought from
Mount Calvary. The funeral mounments,
sarcophagi and Greek and Roman Anti-
quities are very curious. One picture
represents the “Last Judgment”. It
would fill your soul with horror. One of
the party remarked “were I obliged to see
that every day I would live a pure life, for
I never wish to go there.” As we left the
buildings a man took our attention with a
cute, tiny, brown dog, Marengo, he said
he was named, after the village of Sardinia.
It stands on the borders of a great plain
where, on the 14th of June 1800, Bonaparte
defeated the Austrians under General
Melas. Doggie was bought by a member
of our party.
	The square of the University contains
marble buildings. The University is'the
oldest in Italy, and has a library, a botani-
cal garden, a cabinet of natural history, and
au observatory.
	Pisa is of great antiquity, having been
one of the twelve towns of Etruria, and
afterwards augmented by a colony from
Rome.
	After a substantial lunch we took the
train for Rome. The cars differ from those
of France, they are not the long cars with
a passage down one side, they are divided
into compartments with a door connecting
the two, a tiny bell between, and leading
into the next compartment.
	We had views on our right of the Medi-
terranean, it being clear after leaving
Cecina, a view of the Island ot Elba. The
train was packed. We had dinner on the
train between stations, one hour for meals,
the train stopped, we left our car, ran to
the diner next the engine, the meal was
excellent, we stopped, ran back to our car,
others went to the diner; it was all novel
and amusing.
	About midnight we arrive at Rome
“The Eternal City.” We were thankful
we had a manager and he attended to the
Custom Officers. Arrangements were
made for our stay at Hotel d’ Angleterre
de’ Paris, among the most comfortable in
the city. Our rooms were well aired, and
much fatigued we retired, to dream of the
beautiful fountain that met our gaze just
after leaving the station.
	Nov. 21, 1896.—In Rome. Our break-
fast the inevitable rolls and coffee, but
good. Carriages were ordered, we drove
along the Tiber, passed the Angel Bridge,
a bridge of the Emp. Hadrian, Castle St.
Angels, or tomb of Hadrian, the most im-
posing mansoleum  in Rome, begun by
Uadrian, completed by his successor, A.
D. 139. The bridge is the approach to the
tomb; it is wholly ancient except the para-
pets,—to St. Peters Church, we left the
carriages at the fountain in the space in
front of the Church. It is a large area of
oval form surrounded with a magnificent
colonnade, the work of Berinrei. Viewing
the building from the outside we then
entered the Church, which stands on the
site of the circus of Nero, where many
Christians were martyred, and where St.
Peter is said to have been buried after his
crucifixion.
	The crypt is all that remains of the early
basilica. The present edifice was begun in
1506, by Julius II, from designs by Bram-
ante. The work went on with various
changes and under several architects, until
Paul III, being “inspired by God” entrust-
ed it to Michael Angelo. The Church was
dedicated by Urban III, in 1626, the colon-
nade added by Alexander VII in 1667, and
the sacristy by Pius VI, in 1780. The
main building cost fifty million dollars; the
work was so heavy that Julius II and Leo
X, resorted to the sale of indulgences to
raise the money; this led to the Reforma-
tion. Go and see it, nothing can give you
an idea of its vastness, grandeur and plain
splendor; the arts of architecture, sculpture
and painting are in the highest perfection.
The most celebrated artists, Bramante,
Raphael, Vignola, Maderno, Bernni and
Michael Angelo, all worked upon it. The
patriarchal chair is a throne elevated to the
height of 70 feet. The high altar has be-
low it St. Peter’s tomb, above it is a can-
opy of brass towering to a height of 132
feet, before the door to the tomb is a lamp
always lighted. On the floor was marked
the length of all the large Cathedrals in
the world; this was much larger. In one
of the chapels was a painting of St. Paul
baptising his jailors. 
	Leaving the Church we crossed the An-
gel Bridge, passed the Fountain of Trevi,
the legend is “If you drink of the waters of
Trevi, it will ensure you a return to Rome”
to the hotel for lunch. Then a drive upon
the Janiculum Hill, where the gardens are
fine, and there is a splended view of Rome,
built upon seven hills, situated chiefly on
the left bank of the Tiber. The most regu-
larly built is near the northern gate Parte
del Popolo, and the quarter of Bargo. The
squares are numerous but small, and adorn-
ed with fountains, obelisks and monuments.
We drove on the Flaminian Way, the
northern road which led from Ancient
Rome through the gate of Paolo. Near
the gate is the tomb of Caius Cestius, en-
closed in the wall of Aurelian. It is a
brick pyramid cased with marble, 161 feet
high, with a base of 98 feet. In the Prot-
estant cemetery at its foot, is the grave of
Keats, and the tomb which contains the
heart of Shelley. The cypress trees are
very old. As we drove along by the old
walls of Rome, the beggar boys turned
cartwheels, for sue’s they were bright-eyed
laughing boys, attractive in spite of dirt
and rags, looking like Murillo’s Beggar
Boys. We reached the Basilica of St.
Paul, “S. Paolo fuori le Mura”, a magnifi-
cent church which marks the spot where
the Apostle is believed to have been
buried. It contains Mosaics of the 13th
Century; the interior is supported by eighty
granite columns. We judged it one of the
most beautiful churches we had seen. Re-
turning we visited the Mammertine prison,
where St, Peter was liberated by the an-
gel.
	It was now dark, and we returned to
the hotel for dinner.
KIM.


WOMANS EXPONENT


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE Boston University and the North-
western University at Evanston, Ill., have
both taken action to discountenance the
use of tobacco by their respective students.
Observations made by physicians on stu-
dents at Yale and Amherst, show that the
non-users of tobacco surpass the users in
both physical development and in scholar-
ship.						Ex.
	THE women of South Framingham,
Mass., are among the first in the State to
show especial interest in the political state
of affairs. At a public demonstration last
week, Mrs. Eleanor M. Martin, in behalf of
the women, presented a campaign flag to
the Middlesex Republicans. In 1840, the
ladies of this city gave a campaign flag to
the Whigs, which is now in the possession
of the Historical Society.		Ex.
	DR. GRACE N. KIMBALL of Bangor, Me.
now in charge of the principal relief work
in Armenia, where she has gained the title
of “heroine of the Van”, has been chosen
assistant physician of Vassar College. Dr.
Kimball has accepted and will leave Van at
the close of the harvest, in August, when
the relief work must end. She will visit
hospitals and schools in Europe before re-
turning. She has asked leave of absence
until January, before beginning her college
work. Dr. Kimball has obtained a nation-
al reputation for her bravery and work in
Van.							Ex.


WOMAN’S. EXPONENT.


THE SPINET.

By Minna Irving.
BENEATH the rafters, black and bare,
	The ancient spinet stands;
The spiders o’er its yellow keys
	Have stretched their filmy strands;
Around its weak and tottering frame
	The airy cobwebs blow,
In lieu of silken tapestries
	That mouldered long ago.
But windy nights a quaint old tune
	Comes stealing down the stairs;
For then she wakes the keys again,—
	A ghost with powdered hair.
The mice go dancing in and out
	To melodies she sung
When fashion trod the minuet
	And Washington was young.
Around her on the garret floor
	Her shining satins trail;
A haunting sorrow dims her eyes,
	Her face is proud and pale.
But when I climb the creaking stair,
	The gusty moonlight falls
On nothing but the withered herbs
	That hang along the walls.
And yet the spinet trembles still
	To that forgotten tune;
The ashes of a crumbled rose
	Upon the keys are strewn;
And yonder chest below the eaves
	Her gown of satin holds,
With sprigs of broken lavender
	Between its faded folds.


REMEMBRANCE.

[Lovingly dedicated to Mrs. Louise Spencer.]
As the years pass along in grand succession,
	Into the dim and shadowy Past,
How many we love join the grand procession,
	And with those that were,are silent classed.
Our fathers and mothers have each crossed o’er
	The river that rolls between,
And have met with those who crossed before,
	Who now only seem as a dream.
The young and the blithe, the grave and the gay,
	Who in life’s bright summer morning,
Gathered flowers of love that grew by the way,
	When the day was softly dawning.
How many, how many have grown tired and worn
	Like the child that is weary of playing,
And have laid down to rest, when hearts were all
		torn,
	And over their graves a low voice is saying:
“Softly sleep, softly sleep, lo! the battle is done,
	Sweetly rest, sweetly rest, for thy work is o’er,
Joyful now, joyful now, for thy crown is won,
	And thy home on another shore.”
As silent I muse in the eve’s changing light.
	Each friend comes to mind as in days of old,
And in the dear faces love is beaming bright
	Though their hair be dark, or shining gold.
And some that are left have gathered to day,
	To speak of the loved gone before,
May the flowers of love bloom for us while we
		stay,
	For this journey will end on another shore.
Let the flowers of friendship live on forever,
	Let remembrance shine out from the stars,
Let the breeze whisper love that is sighing ever
	And Music chant love in its changing bars.
For love is a plant that will never fade,
	Though blown by the cold winds of Time,
For its birth was immortal, and by God ’twas
		made,
	In His presence forever to shine.


Remember, remember though laughing or gay,
	That changes await us here,
Though life be happy as blooming May,
	Yet her leaves will grow yellow and sere,
And fall to the earth in whirling heaps,
Drifting hither and thither like worthless things
But our mother the earth in her bosom still
		keeps,
	The trust that the dead Summer brings.
O, wondrous life with thy toil and heat,
	Thy changes both sad and gay,
Thy kisses of joy both dear and sweet,
	And the flowers that bloom by the way,
Shed o’er us thy blessings on this happy day,
	And songs of rejoicing we’ll sing,
That in the old days that seem far away,
	In our galaxy of friends, we write Hannah T.
		King.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
June 19, 1896.


MEMORIAL GATHERING.

	ON Friday, June 19, a number of inti-
mate friends of the late Sister Hannah T.
King, met by invitation of her daughter,
Mrs. Louisa Spencer, at the residence of
Mr. and Mrs. Jacob Spencer in this city, in
memory of the gifted and much loved sister.
This pretty idea of social gathering to keep
her memory fresh and green, and to honor
her name and fame, was the idea of Mrs.
S. M. Kimball and Mrs. J. Fewson Smith,
and has been continued, yearly since her
death. The conversation is usually upon
Mrs. King’s characteristics, her writings,
her letters, and reminiscences of her event-
ful life and remarkable personality.
	The gathering was in the season of
roses and the perfume of the flowers was
delightful in the house, and the table dec-
orations were very fine. The ladies
present were M. Isabella Horne, Sarah M.
Kimball, Rachel Grant, Helen M. Whitney,
Julia C. Howe, Eliza V. Smith, Margaret
Alford, Lydia D. Alder, Emily H. Wood-
mansee, Kate Brockbank, Louisa Spencer
and the writer.
	The conversation at table, though there
were no toasts or set speeches, was very
delightful and very like old-fashioned tea
table talk, and the spirit of it was quite re-
freshing to the soul, and the delicacies
partaken of were of the best and daintiest
of the season.
	If Mrs. King could have been present in
person, she would have been satisfied with
the perfect taste and order of the arrange-
ments.
						E. B. W.


CALIFORNIA.
	JULY 17, was Woman’s Day at the Chau-
tauqua Assembly at Pacific Grove. The
exercises were altogether in their hands,
and they used the opportunity to specially
discuss the amendment issue. The meet-
ing at 11 o’clock was called to order by
Mrs. A. A. Sargent, president of the State
Suffrage Association. Miss Susan B.
Anthony was elected president of the day.
	Rev. Anna H. Shaw presided over the
question box, and answered with great
wit the many objections against suffrage.
	In the afternoon Miss Susan B. Anthony
made an address, directing her speech more
particularly to the amendment question.
	Mrs. Sarah B. Cooper followed, and gave
her many hearers cogent reasons for her


alliance with the suffrage cause. Miss
Shaw then resumed the query-box. One
quite prominent question in relation to the
possible attitude of women on the silver
question, in case they secured the ballot,
was answered at length, and was interest-
ingly disposed of. Miss Shaw said the
trouble with most women is they never
have enough money to make silver a prob-
lem. She also stated she did not expect
that all women would be more intelligent
on the silver and tariff questions than men
en masse, but she thought that woman’s
greatest influence in politics would be in
local affairs. The grandest result of their
ballot would be to take all local and muni-
cipal affairs out of politics. She closed by
saying: “My greatest endeavors will be in
the direction of good government and good
morals.” Practical results of woman suf-
frage in Wyoming and Colorado had been
in this direction she said.
The successful day was closed by a bril-
liant address by Miss Shaw, before a large
gathering in the evening.— Woman's
Journal.


WOMAN’S HOME.

	THE formal opening of the Industrial
Farm Colony for Inebriate Women, took
place at Duxhurst, Surrey, England, July
6th. Her Royal Highness, Princess Mary
Duchess of Teck, laid the foundation stones
for three cottages, there being already six
cottages, a large main building, a church,
a hospital and a manor house for ladies of
quality. Purses of money from White
Ribbon women and others in all parts of
England were presented to her Royal
Highness in aid of the Institution. Prayer
was offered by the Hon. the Dean of Here-
ford. Lady Henry Somerset gave an ad-
dress of welcome. The Park sisters, the
well known cornet quartette from New
York, a band and a choir of boys furnished
the music.
	This home was founded by the British
Woman’s Temperance Association led by
Lady Henry Somerset, and is the first
attempt to provide for inebriate women, the
ameliorative surroundings of country air and
out door occupations in homes rather then
corrective institutions.
	The following guests were entertained at
luncheon at Reigate Priory, with Princess
Mary. The Duchess of Teck, the Duchess of
St. Albans; Adeline, Duchess of Bedford;
Lily, Duchess of Marlborough; Lord Will-
am Beresford; Lady Katherine and Mr.
Somers Somerset; Lady Louise Loder;
Lady Edward Cavendish; Lady Patersen;
Lady Eva and Mr. Dugdale; Lady Barnes;
Lady Hope and Mr. Denny; Lady Hylton;
Sir Wilfred and Lady Lawson; the Dean of
Hereford; Hon. Mrs. Leigh; Sir Algernon 
West; Mrs. Eva McClaren; Miss Frances
Willard; Mrs. and Miss Wilberforce; Miss
Tufnall, Lady in Waiting; Hon. A. Hood;
Hon. Mr. Cubitt H. P.; Richard Harding
Davis, Esq.
	THE appointment of H. R. H. Princess
Beatrice, to be Governor of the Isle of
Wight, in successon to the late Prince
Henry of Battenberg, is not only a step
popular to the inhabitants of the Island,
but one which carries on the best traditions
of English history, when women succeeded
to posts of honor and responsibility, irre-
spective of prejudice, where hereditary
right and circumstances indicated them, as
fitting persons.				Ex.


28 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT
EMMELINE B. WELLS, - -  Editor. 
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.
Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage, one year, 25 cts.
Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
coace one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
spunt to regular advertisers.
EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
tng, Main Street, opposite Z.C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-class matter.
SALT LAKE CITY, AUGUST 15, 1896.


THE WOMAN’S VOTE.

	WHAT the women of Utah will do with
suffrage this year, seems to be puzzling
people very greatly, not only abroad in the
land, but here at home. It is a matter for
the most profound thought, and careful 
consideration. It would be very strange if
women themselves knew just exactly what
they ought to do for the best and highest
good, at a critical time like the present,
when men who have had the franchise for
years are breaking away from the political
party which they have always sustained,
and looking elsewhere for the help to secure
the country from peril, who shall decide
these grave questions for women?
	It is the positive duty of every individual
woman to study and examine these grave
and solemn questions for herself, and not
rest satisfied until she has at least sufficient
knowledge of the matter to satisfy her own
conscience. There is much good in both
the great parties, and there are able speak-
ers on both sides, eloquent and logical,
who can convince one against her own will,
as it were. But women though they may
be deceived by sophistry, will not be
bought in large numbers as men have often
been, that is one consolation. Generally
speaking, women will stand by the home,
and the vital question that concern the
family.
	The women of Utah will certainly be
conservative, with very few exceptions.
Those who have passed through “The 
narrows” so to speak, will not risk uncer-
tainties in the matter of voting, they will
at least act conscientiously, seeking for
wisdom and counsel from reliable sources.
There seems to be a wave of unrest passing
over the country such as has not been
known since the civil war; what
is its significance even men who have been
weighing and discussing political economy
and methods all their lives, are unable to
determine, and are drifting hither and
thither with the current that has set in for
good or ill, as the result must prove.
	But the writer has implicit faith in the
future of Utah, and does not believe it de-
pends on partyism entirely, but on
industry, thrift, morality, honesty, integrity
constancy and virtue of its people. What-
ever will promote these sterling qualities
and attributes, will uplift the people of the
new state.
	Yet no one has stronger hopes of the
good to be accomplished by equal suffrage
than the writer. The love of home and
country is rooted and grounded in true


woman’s nature, and that land is safest
where women are free and untramelled, and
can exercise the rights of citizenship I
without fear and intelligently. If every 
woman in Utah who prizes her liberty, and
loves her mountain home, will seek to
comprehend the causes and effects of the 
present conditions over which there
seems to be so much trouble, in nine
cases out of ten she will undoubtedly ar-
rive at a satisfactory conclusion, and be
able to cast her vote judiciously. Re-
member this is an important time, and one
had far better study the question of the
hour and mark the signs of the times,
than to indulge in any frivolity or pas-
time that is only fleeting, and be car-
ried away by the current of circumstances.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	ANOTHER very able woman has been
added to the Board of Regents of the
Utah University, Mrs. Rebecca E. Little.
We congratulate her and feel confident
of her good judgment and reliability.
	MISS CLARA BARTON, President of the
Red Cross in America, is on her way
home from Constantinople The Sultan
has conferred upon her, the emblem of the
second order of Chefakat.
	THE excursion to Saltair which has
been planned for the Relief Society and
the women of the new state, will afford
a good opportunity to hear able speeches
on the vital questions now confronting
the nation. They will be made by young
men born in this Intermountain region,
who feel deeply and strongly in regard to
the future welfare of Utah.
	A Relief Society was organized in Can-
non Ward on Tuesday, August 4th,
Bishop Lewis M. Cannon presiding.
Officers elected were, Sarah J. Cannon,
President, Rebecca A. Sharp and Sarah A.
J. Cannon, Counselors. A fuller account
of the organization will be given later.
The speakers were Bishop L. M. Cannon,
Elders C. H. Gould and L. John Nuttall,
Sisters M. I. Horne, B. W. Smith, E. B-
Wells and Annie T. Hyde.
	ONE of Salt Lake’s favorite merchants,
R. K. Thomas Esq., has recently moved
his dry goods establishment into a hand-
some and commodious new store on Main
St., Nos. 48 and , 50 between South Tem-
ple and First South Sts. The store is taste-
fully fitted up and quite a variety of new
goods has been added to the stock. Very
elegant silk dress goods, Dresden with Per-
sian effects, and at extremely low prices
considering the quality. Mr. Thomas
keeps an excellent variety in ladies dress
goods and this line of fabrics, and as he al-
ways does his own purchasing in the East-
ern markets and has very fine taste, his
patrons and customers may be sure of a
good article in this line. There is no better 
place to buy dry goods nor where ladies
are more likely to be suited, than at R. K.
Thomas’s, and the clerks are attentive and
obliging.


AUTOBIAGRAPHY
OF
ELIZABETH L. HYDE.

[By request of my dear friend and long
time neighbor, the editor of the EXPO-
NENT, I have written a brief sketch of my
long and successful life.]

	I am now in my 86th year; my memory
is good, my mental faculties unimpaired,
but my bodily strength is failing me. My
name is Elizabeth Lane Hyde. My parents
were James L. Lane, and Jane Lane. I
was born in the (County) town of New
Radnor, Radnorshire, England, February
26, 1811. My birth was very humble, my
father being a laboring man; but my par-
ents were honest and industrious people,
and managed to give me as good an educa-
tion as the schools of Radnor afforded in
those days.
	When I was old enough I learned the
dressmaking, and worked in that business
in my native town until I was twenty-six
years of age. During this time I became
acquainted with a very respectable young
man, a farmer’s son in the neighborhood.
We kept company for six years, but cir-
cumstances and my lack of fortune com-
bined to separate us. He married another
young woman but was never happy in his
home life, and died in a few years.
	I mention this circumstance because it
was the reason I remained single to the age
of thirty-five years. I could not remain at
home, so I went to London and worked in
a millinery establishment nearly three
years. I came back home the next week
after Queen Victoria was married, but I
could not settle there again. I had some
friends in another town not far away, so I
went there and commenced business in the
millinery, and soon had a good prospect.
I was always inclined to be religious, and
I soon became a leading member in the Bap-
tist Church and Sunday School.
	In 1846, I was married to a widower,
with two fine boys, whom I loved very
much, and in time I had a son born to me,
but he only lived three months.
	I soon found I had made a mistake in my
marriage. My husband was a drinking
man and he had deceived me; he despised
every religion, and he would sometimes
swear about my going to meeting. Such
is a brief sketch of my life before the true
Gospel of Jesus Christ found me.
	In the fall of 1847, a farmer's daughter
from a distance came to my establishment
to learn the business. She brought some
books with her which I accidentally found.
I was very much alarmed about these
books, on account of the other young girls
under my charge; but she was so good-
natured over it that she soon disarmed me,
and I became much interested myself in
what they contained. I read the Voice of
Warning through, and then every other
Mormon book I could get. It took right
hold of me; I could see truth in every line,
and I durst not trifle with it, let the conse-
quence be what it might. I was clandes-
tinely baptized on the 25th of February,
1848, and the Lord gave me such a know-
ledge of the truth, that I felt able to face
the whole world. Every trial that I have
had to pass through, has strengthened my
faith, and I have been tried in very deed.
As soon as it was known that I had become
a convert to the Mormon faith, my Baptist
friends forsook me, and my husband acted
more like a fiend than a man. I tried to
do my duty; attended to my business and
household affairs. At times I felt above
such petty ways, and sometimes like run-
ing away out of it; but when I stopped to
consider, that seemed folly, so I began to
lay plans. All my means was in my busi-


[Column 1]
ness, so I commenced sending money to
Liverpool as often as I could spare it, until
I had sent enough, to pay for my emigra-
tion to Zion the cheapest possible way.
	In the spring of 1856, I started for Salt
Lake City, on April 19, with a company of
Welsh Saints. I shipped on board a sailing
vessel named the “S. Curling”, in honor of
the captain, who was part owner. Our
president’s name was Captain Dan Jones.
I became acquainted with David Grant and
John Oakley, returning missionaries, and
cooked for them on the passage, which was
a very rough one. While on board I
composed an article for the captain, and
our president presented it to him; he was
very much pleased with it, and paid me
some fine compliments:
ON THE ATLANTIC OCEAN,
MAY, 1856.

CAPTAIN CURLING.
COME Mormons, and sing; let the deep waters
	ring,
All praise to our guide on the ocean;
Pray for him to have rest when Thy people are
	blest,
To have part in the first resurrection.
All hail to the captain, for he is our chieftain,
In crossing the mighty blue sea;
No danger we fear while onward we steer,
Can a captain be kinder than he?
United we pray to see the glad day,
Roll on when the righteous are blest,
Long live Captain Curling, his canvas unfurling,
In perils may God give him rest.
Now we bid you adieu, with all the ship’s crew,
Glad to meet you again in the West.
					ELIZABETH LANE.
	We landed in Boston, Mass., the 23rd of
May, 1856, and went straight to the cars
and started for the Mormon camp at Iowa,
there to make ready for our journey of 1300
miles with hand carts. Captain Edward
Bunker was appointed to conduct us
through. We started on our way West
June 24, and arrived safe at Florence, and
stopped there two weeks, and left for the
plains July 30. I had always been iso-
lated from the Church, so that I had not one
particular friend; I seemed to travel all
alone. I was allowed to bring 15 pounds
of baggage; this was put on the cart with
a man and his wife. This man had a wood-
en leg, his name was Thomas Evans, and
he lives at Spanish Fork. He soon gave
out in the deep sands of Nebraska, and his
wife and myself took the cart all the way to
Laramie. When the man got better, I
became lame while we were traveling in
the Black hills, I had rheumatism in my
ankles and had to give up pulling the cart.
I made a friend of one of the teamsters,
and he put a small bundle on the wagon
for me, after Captain Bunker had refused
to do so, and then I was free to walk alone.
There was one man in the camp I shall
always remember with gratitude, his name
is John Cousins, he lives at Bear Lake.
He has carried me on his back through
many rivers, and when Captain Bunker
put me out of the wagon at Laramie River,
he picked me up and carried me through
the water.
	We finally came to Green River, and I
was behind the camp; there was no one in
sight and it was near sundown. I sat down
and thought this is the last. After a while
began to ask myself what brought you
here? I called myself a coward. So I got
up and asked the Lord to help me, and pre-
pared to wade the river; and the Lord did

[Column 2]
help me, and I got safe to the camp just as
they were preparing to come after me.
But the next morning I could not stand;
I had been chilled through. Brother
David Grant, then the Captain of our one
hundred, was sent for and had me lifted in-
to one of the wagons for the forenoon, and
gave orders to the teamster that I should
wade no more rivers, and the order was
obeyed.
	We arrived in Salt Lake City, Oct. 2,
and camped on what is now the University
Square, where we partook of a good supper
after a fast of thirty hours. We were com-
manded to eat our last rations beyond the
big mountain at noon the day before, as
they expected provisions at the camping
place that night, but were disappointed, and
we had walked fifteen miles that day with-
out food.
	I had now reached Salt Lake City, the
goal of my ambition; but no one came to
greet me as they did others, and take them
to their homes. I knew the young woman
that brought the Gospel to me was in the
City and married, but I knew not where to
find her, and she was searching for me with
a wrong name as I had traveled in my
maiden name of Lane, so she missed find-
ing me. I made the camp my home until
after Conference, and then went to Kays-
ville with some friends. While there I got
the friend’s address whom I was looking
for, so I came back to the city and found
her. She was very glad to meet me, and
offered me a home for the winter; but she
was very much changed, we were not of
the same spirit now; her people and herself
were finding fault with everything, especi-
ally the Church affairs. So I began to
think of making a home for myself, which
was a difficult thing to do in my case as I
did not want another husband in this life if
could possibly help it, though I knew
that marriage was an eternal principle or-
dained of God. I realized the Savior had
said in the resurrection they were not mar-
ried or given in marriage. From this I
understand, that in order to partake of that
eternal principle, the marriage has to be
solemnized in this life. It was the time of
the Reformation, and I had plenty of suit-
ors, among whom were three widowers
with good homes. Each one of them told
me the same thing, if I would marry him
he would not take another wife; but I de-
clined, that was not what I wanted. I had
sacrificed my affections twice, I was now
trying to act upon principle.
	Through Brother David Grant I be-
came acquainted with his father-in-law,
Heman Hyde and his good wife. They
were generally called Father and Mother
Hyde, they were getting to be old people.
They had a nice home on State St. in the
13th Ward In them I found congenial
spirits, I could sit and talk with them
about Mormonism by the hour and not get
weary. Heman Hyde had been a prosper-
ous business man in New York State when
Mormonism came to them, and all his fami-
ly of five children, most of them grown up,
came into the Church. He sold or bartered
away all his fine property, and followed the
Church to Kirtland, thence to Missouri,
and afterwards Nauvoo, and finally to this
valley. By this time their ample fortune
was greatly reduced, but for that I did not
care; I was willing to work and help them
in their declining years; and I consented to
become one of the family, and was sealed to
Brother Hyde as his wife, in the new and
everlasting covenant, on the 6th of Decem-

[Column 3]
ber that same year. I have always been
happy and contented in my last choice, and
so were Brother and Sister Hyde. Mother,
as I always called Sister Hyde, would say,
“Elizabeth it was the Lord brought you
here to comfort me.” We lived together
nearly six years without a jar. I took care
of her for seven months in her last sickness
(with dropsy.) She died in September, 1862.
	I had always been self sustaining, and
while traveling I would often think, what
could I do when I arrived here. I could do
almost anything except washing or weav-
ing. What was my surprise the first week
to find that the Hyde family kept a laundry
and did washing for gentlemen. I said
nothing, but turned to and helped, and soon
mastered the business, and took the lead
and made a success. It was the chief sup-
port of the family as long as Brother
Hyde lived; he was taken sick and died in
June, 1869, at the age of 81 years. He
was a very just man and protected me by
making a will he left me the use and inter-
est of the property as long as I lived. The
Will was probated, and Brother Hyde’s son
Rosel Hyde, with two grandsons, appointed
trustees. They put everything in order
and left it in my charge. I soon realized
that I could not manage the land to make
a living, so I petitioned the Court and
they sold a five acre lot, and helped: me to
build two tennement houses on the city
property, to rent. I managed them and
the rents made me quite comfortable for
twenty years.
	I had always been a member of the
Relief Society; I was now a teacher going
around the blocks in the ward, looking
after the poor and sick, which office I held
until age disabled me for all such labor.
	In the boom of 1889, we sold the old
home and realized a good price. The
trustees put the money to interest for my
benefit, and it brings me a nice income. I
live with one of the grandsons. I have a
room to myself and pay for my board and
attendance. They respect and love me,
anticipate all my wants, and there is noth-
ing too good for “grandma.”
	When I look back on my past life my
trials are nothing when compared with the
prospect of sharing in the reward that is in
store for this great and good people, the
Latter-day Saints, whom the God of heaven
has picked out from among the nations, and
brought to Zion to learn of His ways and
keep His commandments, and make “The
desert blossom as the rose.”
		ELIZABETH LANE HYDE.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. AND P. A. REPORTS.

SANPETE STAKE.
	MINUTES of the Relief Society Confer-
ence of the Sanpete Stake of Zion, held
June 5th, 1896, at Manti, President M. A.
P. Hyde presiding. Singing, “Lord we
come before Thee now”, prayer by Pres’t.
John Maiben, singing “Where the voice of
friendship’s heard.” Roll called and min-
utes read and approved.
	Pres’t. M. A. Hyde made a few opening re-
marks. Pres’t. Zina Young thought of the
dear ones (Sisters M. W. Snow and S. A.
Peterson), who had just passed away, that
they would work with even more interest
than before. Since we have become ac-
quainted with the eternal truths, we have
another guarding angel to watch over us.
Spoke of apostacy, and for an example
could take father Marsh with his palsied


[Column 1]
hand, who had said “If any of you want to
apostatize, look at me.” Said she loved to
see the faithful. We have many joys in
the Gospel that take us above earthly sor-
rows; we have great reason to rejoice, being
united with the eternal priesthood of God.
	The vacancy caused through the depart-
ure of the Stake counselors, was then filled.
On motion of Pres’t. Zina Young, Alvira
S. Cox was to act in the vacancy caused by
the death of Minerva W. Snow, and Abbie
Shoemaker was to fill the place of Sarah A.
Peterson.
	Pres’t. John B. Maiben said “we are sub-
ject to change, but we must acknowledge
the hand of God in all things. Let us ex-
ercise those God-like qualities.” Gave
words of consolation to Pres’t. C. Peterson
in his bereavement, said “God remembers
the mission of the faithful, therefore, let us
be comforted. May the spirit of wisdom,
righteousness, of truth, of kindness and good
will rest upon us.”
	Pres’t. M. A. Hyde felt favored with the
presence of Sisters Zina Young and E. J.
Stevenson. Spoke of the great loss
sustained in the death of her counselors,
but it is not pleasing in the sight of God to
mourn.
	The Ephraim North Ward Relief Society
was represented by Pres’t. Sophia Ander-
son, Ephraim South Ward by Pres’t. Ellen
Dorius, Fountain Green by Pres’t. Polly A.
Johnson, Fairview by Pres’t. Eliza Barthol-
omew, and Gunnison by Pres’t. Helena
Madsen.
	Pres’t. C. Peterson felt that the sisters
just called would be as much beloved as
those who had passed away. He requested
the sisters to come and be set apart.
	Sister Aivira Cox was set apart by Pres’t.
John Maiben, and Sister Abbie Shoemaker
by Pres’t. William Y. Reid.
	The resignation of Helen E. Young as
Cor. Stake Secretary was read and accepted
with a vote of thanks. Singing. Benedic-
tion by Hans Jensen.
	Pres’t. Rebecca Wareham of Manti ex-
tended an invitation to the officers and
visitors attending Conference to attend a
banquet in honor of Pres’t. Hyde on her 
80th birthday, where she was presented
with an elegant gold watch and chain.

	AFTERNOON SESSION: Singing by the
choir, prayer by Brother J. F. Allred, sing-
ing. President Hyde returned her thanks and
appreciation for the kindness shown her;
hoped we might be one. Spoke upon the
wheat question, said we must store grain
and take care of it.
	Sister Caroline Simpson represented the
Relief Society of Mt. Pleasant, Pres’t.
Rebecca Wareham represented the North
Ward of Manti, Pres’t. Esther Anderson
the South Ward of Manti, Pres’t. Annie
Hardy, Moroni, Pres’t. Matilda Olsen, May-
field, Pres’t. M. A. Frantzen, Spring City, 
Pres’t. Elizabeth Thompson, Sterling, and
Pres’t. Ann Midgley, of Wales.
	Sister E. J. Stevenson of Salt Lake, said
the association of the Saints was more to
her than any thing else. We should learn
our duty and be humble, for it is those
whom the Lord will bless. We should
cultivate the spirit of cheerfulness and
gentleness; we will not make many mis-
takes if we have the Spirit of the Lord to
direct us. Was pleased to note that the
sisters had read the Doctrine and Covenants
according to instructions. Pres’t. Zina
Young spoke of blessing the sick, said we

[Column 2]
must be wise in our administration in all
holy ordinances.
	Counselor Alvira Ccx asked an interest
in our faith and prayers to assist her in her
great calling. Desired to be worthy of the
respect and esteem of the Saints. Coun-
selor Abbie Shoemaker felt her calling a
great responsibility, but if the Lord would
help her she would round up her shoulders,
and try to do her part
	Pres’t. J. D. T. McCallister (of the
Temple) felt that we were blessed indeed to
be here, to see and enjoy the Society of
“Aunt Zina.” Thought at times great
things were imparted to us for our en-
couragement, and we should be careful
whom we impart them to. We should
read the revelations of God, they are gems
there are things in the Doctrine and Cove-
nants that will lead us to celestial glory.
Thought the spirit of love and forgiveness
was present. God has blessed the honest
toil of this people; he felt humble in his
spirit.
	Sisters Stevenson and Young encouraged
the people in taking the EXPONENT. Sis-
ter M. A. Hyde spoke in tongues and
Sister Zina Young interpreted.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
Singing “Do what is right.” Benediction by
C. Madsen.
		MARIA WILLARDSON Sec.

PRIMARY STAKE FAIR OF SEVIER.
	According to appointments, Stake Pri-
mary President, Louisana Heppler, with
her counselors, and Secretary Mary Rick-
enbach, started to visit the Primary Fairs
in the county. On the 1st. of June they
should have held one for Sigurd and Vir-
million, but on account of sickness could
not hold one. On the 2nd of June, we left
our homes and arrived in Aurora at 10
o’clock a. m. After opening the Fair, we
viewed the things, saw that a great deal of
interest had been taken by the children,
especially by the boys in making tables,
rakes, barrows etc. We held a meeting in
the afternoon, and attended a Primary
concert at night. Next morning we went
to Salina and attended the Fair in the fore-
noon, and in looking over the things found
that both girls and boys had done some
very neat work. At 2 o’clock we held a
meeting and spoke for some time to a
houseful of children, and also had the
pleasure of attending a concert at night and
enjoyed ourselves very much.
	After a short ride from Salina, we
arrived at Redmond and were surprised
when we entered the house and saw how
well everything was arranged. After ex-
amining the things, we could not help but
think the children had done well, every-
thing being so neat. Parents and children
gathered at 2 p.m. in the meeting house
and we held a meeting, and enjoyed our-
selves very much. They also gave, as in
other places, a concert at night.
	A long and dreary ride through the dust
and sun, brought us to Richfield on the
5th. We were greatly disappointed in
not seeing more of an interest taken, but
felt like giving credit to all those who made
something. A program was prepared for
the afternoon meeting, and the children
had learned their parts well, which gave
Sister Heppler much joy in seeing that they
like others were interested. We returned
home that evening feeling well.
	We rested three days and then took a
long dreary ride over the dugways and
arrived in Monroe at 10;30 on the 9th of

[Column 3]
June. We attended the Fair in the fore-
noon. After looking at the things, we
saw that the girls were interested, one girl
having fourteen articles; but we were great-
ly disappointed in not finding one thing
made by the boys. We held a meeting in
the afternoon, and were pleased with the way
thechildren rendered their parts. Next day
we met with the Joseph Primary. They
also had a good Fair for the few things pre-
pared. In the afternoon we held a meet-
ing, and attended a concert at night. A
short ride from Joseph found us in Elsi-
nore. We were somewhat disappointed in
not seeing more of an interest taken by the
parents and children. At 2 p. m. we held
a meeting, and enjoyed ourselves very
much; then we partook of a picnic that the
children had brought.
	On the 12th of June we met with the
nverury and Annabella Ward’s Fair, and
were pleased to see so much interest taken
by the children in making something for
the Fair and in taking their part in the meet-
ing. We attended a Primary concert at
night. We again returned home, and on
Tuesday went to a Fair in Glenwood, and
credit is surely due to both parents and
children in making such a display of fancy
work, cooking and carpenter work. We
held a meeting in the afternoon and attend-
ed a conceit at night. After a day’s long
and tiresome ride, we arrived in Koosharem,
and next day we met with the Burrville
and Koosharem Primaries, and were pleased
with the Fair, and had a good time during
our meeting. We went to a concert at
night. Driving over dugways and through
dust, at 2 p. m. we arrived in Wallsville,
and were pleased to see that, though being
the smallest place, it had the best Fair.
We then returned home, feeling well paid
for our trip in seeing the parents and child-
ren taking so much interest.
		MARY RICKENBACH, Sec.

ONEIDA STAKE.

	THE Quarterly Conference of the: Relief
Society, convened at Trout Creek, June.7,
1896.
	President Elizabeth Fox with her coun-
selors, Mary A. Hawks and Delilah. E.
Dudley, met at Mink Creek, Saturday,
June 6, at 12 o’clock, where the first
special meeting was held with the Mink
Creek Relief Society. They were kindly
entertained by Brother and Sister Graham.
	Meeting commenced at 2 o’clock. Pre-
sent on the stand, besides the Stake officers,
were Pres’t. Graham, counselors and
secretary, and one of the counselors to the
Bishop, (John Olsen.)
	Meeting opened with usual exercises,
Pres’t. Fox presiding. All the speakers
felt well, and much good and timely in-
struction was given, and all felt blessed.
	From Mink Creek we proceeded on our
journey in company with Brother Anderson
of Franklin, Idaho, to Trout Ceeek, where
we were kindly taken care of by the sisters.
	Sunday morning we met with the Sab-
bath school in a nice meeting house. Every
thing was so neat and clean. The aisles
are carpeted with new home made carpet,
the building is seated with comfortable
home made seats, the whole interior being
painted in a delicate drab color. They
have an organ, a good supply of music-
books as well as a good supply of Sabbath
School books. The stand is also carpeted
and seated with comfortable chairs, table
and Church standard works, and last but
not least, a beautiful set of silver Sacrament


[Column 1]
dishes given by the Relief Society of the
ward. The house was divided into apart-
ments by curtains, while the walls are
painted in cream pink with a beautiful
border of neat design.
	Bishop McGee Harris and Superintendent
John Turner were present. Miss Violet
Sorenson played the organ in a masterly
way, and in connection with the children’s
clear voices, produced soul-stirring music
as they sang the praises of our Father in
heaven.
	At 2 o’clock the Relief Society Con-
ference convened. Meeting was called to
order and opened by the usual exercises of
singing and prayer, Pres’t. Elizabeth Fox
presiding.
	Bishop Harris of Trout Creek, Bishop
Bennett of Mound Valley Ward, Pres’t.
Eliza Hale of Mound Valley Relief Society,
Counselor Jessie Harris of Thatcher Ward,
and Pres’t. Ingrid Graham of Mink Creek,
were present on the stand with the presid-
ing officers. After the roll was called,
the minutes of the last Conference were read
and accepted, and a favorable report was
given by each representative present.
	Counselor D. E. Dudley was happy to
make the acquaintance of so many bright
and intelligent faces, but felt a timidity in
attempting to instruct them; but she real-
zed it was the work of the Lord that we
are engaged in. We came not to do our
own will, but the Father’s who sent us;
and gave much instruction to the mothers,
daughters and teachers, and exhorted all to
be up with the spirit of the times, and to
keep the commandments of God, in fact
to “Seek first the kingdom of God and its
righteouness and all things shall be added.”
	Counselor Hawks spoke of the difference
between the peace enjoyed in our midst and
the horrors and wickedness that was going
on in the world. Advised all to step for-
ward in performance of every duty, and see
that their lamps were filled and burning
and ready at any time to go out to meet
every call and requirement made of them
by the servants of God.
	President Fox felt well pleased to again
meet with the Saints living in the vicinity
of Trout Creek, and was pleased to see
their new meeting house, and to feel the
quiet spirit of peace which seemed to pre-
vail in their midst. Said she attended the
General Relief Society Conference in Salt
Lake City in April, and testified to the
spirit and power enjoyed and manifested in
the meeting held by the sisters, and to the
interest manifested, and the good counsel
and instructions given there by the breth-
ren who were present. She spoke at great
length on the counsel and advice and items
of business given at the General Conference.
Instructed the sisters to keep on and be
encouraged in the good work, to persevere
in the storing of grain, caring for the poor,
the sick and afflicted etc.
	Bishop Harris spoke a short time. He
appreciated the labors and assistance of the
Relief Society in his ward, and testified to
their faithfulness. Bishop Bennett also
gave good counsel and instruction in a brief
manner. Conference adjourned for three
months, and the meeting then closed by
singing and prayer.
	At five o’clock we proceeded on our
journey for ten or fifteen miles, and we
were kindly entertained over night by
Brother and Sister Harris of Thatcher Ward.
	On the morning of the 8th we started for
Chesterfield at 7 o’clock a. m. Noon found
us at Bancroft, where we rested and were

[Column 2]
refreshed at Brother and Sister Banks, who
were old acquaintances of Sister Hawk’s,
lately of Spanish Fork.
	We arrived at Chesterfield in time to fill
our appointments at 5 o’clock. The sisters
all felt well and we had a good meeting.
Bishop Tollman not being at home, his
counselors met with us. There we were
kindly entertained for the night by Brother
and Sister Muir and Sister Call.
	We started for Dempsie Ward the morn-
ing of the 9th., at 7 a. m. On account of
not being acquainted with the roads, we
traveled two hours and a half on the wrong
side of the Port Neuf River, and did not
have time to retrace our steps, so we were
obliged to ford the river, which we did
very comfortably, having found a good
ford. We then proceeded on through the
canyon on a good dugway, high enough to
have a good view of the falls with all their
grandeur until we came suddenly to the
opening, where we found Brother and Sis-
ter Boice and Sister Rhoda Bingham, with
a beautiful dinner in waiting for us, includ-
ing a large platter of beautiful salmon trout.
To say we enjoyed their hospitality would
not half describe our feelings, as they all
were old time acquaintances; and the only
tiling we regretted was that we could not
stay with them longer, and take part in
catching as well as in eating the fish. We
visited the Warm Springs, where so many
go every year to bathe in its waters, to re-
ceive the benefit of its medical virtues.
	We held a spirited meeting at two o’clock
in which all felt well, and much good in-
struction was given by the company, as well
as by the local sisters and brethren; a full
report of which would make this article too
lengthy. We proceeded on as far as Mc.
Cammon, at 4 o’clock, leaving our sisters
and brethren with a hearty, God speed,
standing at the meeting house door. We
reached Mc. Cammon at 4 o’clock, and held
an evening meeting at Brother Norton’s
house, where we remained over night, and
took the train for Pocatello at 11 a. m. next
morning.
	At 2 p. m. our meeting was called to or-
der at Pocatello, with a full house. Present
on the stand was Stake President Fox,
counselors Mary Hawks and Delilah E.
Dudley, President Regenia Pond, Coun-
selors Mary Ann Spillman and Nettie Har-
grave, Secretary C. Harrison and Silva
Dawson; also Bishop Charles Cannon,
counselor N. P. Nelson, Elders N. S.
Pond, and Morgan Jaines. Meeting opened
by the usual exercises, President Elizabeth
Fox presiding. The roll was called,
showing fifty four members enrolled. The
minutes were excellent and given in a very
able manner, showing both tact and ability.
	Pres’t. Pond gave a pleasing report of
their labors, and welcomed the sisters to
Pocatello; said their visit was very much
appreciated.
	Pres’t. Fox was pleased to be able to
visit Pocatello, and find the Relief Society
in such good circumstances, and feeling so
well. She laid before the meeting the in-
structions given at the General Conference
in April, and exhorted them to continue in
the good work etc. She was followed by
Mary Hawks and Delilah E. Dudley, who
each in her turn gave excellent instruction.
	Bishop Cannon testified to the faithful
labors of the sisters, and said in the strength
of the different organizations, lay the
strength of the Church.
	Counselor N. P. Nelson followed with

[Column 2]
many words of counsel and encouragement;
so also did Brother Morgan Jaines.
	Sister Homes, late from the Island of
Tasmania, gave an account of how she re-
ceived the Gospel and how she had been
able to emigrate to Zion, and how much
she appreciated being with the Saints.
	At the close of the meeting we were
kindly escorted to the adjoining room be-
longing to the Relief Society, where a
grand banquet awaited all. Tables were
set the whole length of the room, and
beautifully decorated with flowers of all
kinds too numerous to mention, and loaded
with every variety of cake, ice cream,
lemonade, angel food etc. After the guests
and members were seated and thanks re-
turned to the bountiful Giver of all, we
enjoyed a regular time of feasting and
visiting was participated in while willing
hands and loving hearts administered to the
wants of all, even to the least child; and
the sick were also remembered. More
than one hundred were entertained at the
tables before the feast was ended.
	One grand feature of it all is the Relief
Society have dishes enough of their own to
set the tables for a large number, a cook
stove, pans, cutlery, table linen etc., and
a large convenient cupboard to store them
all away securely between times of using in
their own comfortable Relief Society meet-
ing house They also own a full set of
silver ware, which they keep elsewhere for
security’s sake. Much praise is due to those
who so willingly administered to the wants
of all present. In the evening we attended
a meeting of the Woodman’s Club held at
the Pavilion. A program was rendered
with very good music and recitations, and
speeches and some business; at the close of
the meeting dancing was introduced. This
we did not stay to see as the evening was
far spent, but we returned to Sister Pond’s
and Sister Nelson’s for the night.
	Pocatello is a neat little town full of life
and business, and is the County seat of
Bannock Co. There are many good build-
ings, prominent among which are four
or five churches of different denominations,
two large schoolhouses, very roomy and
commodious looking, banks and stores, mu-
sic stores, machine shops, grocery stores,
besides dwelling houses etc.
	We left Pocatello the morning of the
nth. at 7 o’clock, in company with Brother
Nelson. We traveled about twenty-five
miles in a comfortable buggy, and we en
joyed seeing the natural scenery of the
mountains and river, and the huge masses
of lava rock piled up in walls or tumbled
into piles by the thousand tons, and ex-
tending for ten or fifteen miles in an un-
broken chain along the bed of the Port-
Neuf River. At a glance the multitudes of
rock which compose the masses, appear to
be the same shape, but on closer inspection
no two are exactly alike. One would
think to look at them that the very foun-
dation of the earth had been ploughed up.
We passed through a part of the Indian
Reservation, where you will see once in a
while a family living in a log cabin with
a stable and a corrall and a small patch of
grain partly fenced, and many are living in
a semi-civilized condition. We reached
Garden Creek in time to hold our meeting,
which was appointed at 11 o’clock. Pres’t.
Martha Henderson and her two counselors
and also Bishop Capel were present.
	Meeting opened with singing by the choir
and the usual exercises, and the speakers
were as follows: President Elizabeth Fox,


Mary Hawks, Delilah E. Dudley, Brother
Nelson, of Pocatello, and Bishop Capel. I
must not forget to say they had a good sub-
stantial new meeting house, and a good
choir with a good organ which is a great
help in any ward.
	We continued our journey after bidding
good bye to Brother Nelson and the brethren
and sisters of Garden Creek, to Nine Mile,
where we had a much needed rest that
evening, and stayed over night at Pres’t.
Coffin’s.
	We held our final meeting at Oxford, at
2 o’clock on the afternoon of the 12th.
There were present on the stand, besides
the Stake Presidency, Pres’t. Lewis,
and Counselors Hannah Croshaw and Lynna
Fisher, Secretary Susie Homer, Bishop
Lewis and Elder Nephi Cummings. The
instructions here given were similar to
our former meetings except that views
of a political character were added, and
quite an interesting time was given to this
subject.
	Elder George Lewis who had just return-
ed from an Australian mission, gave us an
account of his labors while there and bore
a strong testimony to the truth of the Gos-
pel. From Oxford we proceeded on to our
several homes, with a feeling of comfort
and relief to think we had once again been
permitted to do our duty and return home
in safety, with many loving remembrances
of our faithful sisters.
	ELIZABETH FOX, Pres't.
	MARY A. HAWKS, Counselor.
	D. E. DUDLEY. Sec. pro tem.


30 WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MISCELLANEOUS.
	To be gentle is the test of a lady.
	Do not be ashamed to confess your
ignorance whenever you see an opportunity
of acquiring knowledge.
	WE should look upon life as a gift of
days, only one to be used and improved at
a time, as its duties can be done and all its
burdens borne.
	PREACHING is of much avail, but
practice is far more potent. A godly life is
the strongest argument that you can offer to
the skeptic.—Hosea Ballou.
	LIBERTY cannot spring up from blood;
the sword cannot prepare the soil where it
is to grow up. Truth, light and reason
alone are the nurses of liberty.
	IN vain do they talk of happiness who
never subdued an impulse in obedience to a
principle. He who never sacrificed a pre-
sent to a future good, or a personal to a
general one, can speak of happiness only as
the blind do of colors.
	TO one who has said, “I do not believe
there is an honest, man in the world,”
another replied, “It is impossible that one
man should know all the world, but quite
possible that one should know himself.”
—Montreal Star.
	CHARACTER is not shaped by trifles any
more than marble is sculptured by puffs of
air. Only by hard struggles and conflicts
with temptation, and resolute self-mastery,
does the divine principle assert its suprem-
acy and carve its immortal loveliness into
every faculty and mood of the mind. The
sharpness of our trials and the hardness of
our lot show what we are made of.


IN MEMORIAM.
	To the memory of our beloved president, Karen
P. Hanson, who departed this life May 12, 1896,
bom Feb. 3, 1825, in Albert Denmark, baptized
by Brother James Hanson. March 9, 1853, mar-
ried to Peter Hanson April 24, 1853. She left
her native land 1854. While crossing the plains
she buried her husband and two children, one an
infant a few days old.
	In 1856 she was married to James Hanson in
Salt Lake City. At the time of the move came
to Spanish Fork, and was called to be a counselor
in the first organization of the Relief Society in
the 4th Ward of Spanish Fork, 1858, until 1875,
when the several branches were merged into one
Society, she was chosen presiding teacher, and
was ever faithful and at her post for fourteen
years. When the Society was again divided into
four wards in 1891, she was chosen President
of the 4th Ward Association, which office she
held until the time of her death. She was a
faithful Saint and mother in Israel in word and
in very deed; no sacrifice was too great for her to
make for the Gospel’s sake. She had six child-
ren by her second marriage, four of whom survive
her, two sons and two daughters and twenty-one
grandchildren. Sister Hanson with Brother Han-
son honored the principle of celestial marriage in a
patriarchal family with love and devotion; with
humble dignity and honor to herself. She was a
noble representative and exponent of the princi-
ple.
	Six of Brother Hanson’s sons acted as pall
bearers.
	RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	WHEREAS, Sister Hanson our beloved Presi-
dent has been called from our midst to a brighter
and more holy sphere,
	RESOLVED, That we recognize in her death the
loss of a faithful and energetic president, a friend
to the needy and comforter in the hour of trouble,
a devoted wife and mother and faithful Saint.
	RESOLVED, That we esteem her labors and de-
votion to the interests of Zion, as worthy the
emulation of every member of our Society.
	RESOLVED, That we condole with the bereaved
husband and children, and extend to them our
heartfelt sympathy in the loss of a loving wife
and mother, and sincere friend.
	RESOLVED, That these resolutions be inserted
in our records, and a copy sent to the bereaved
family, and a copy to the WOMAN'S EXPONENT
for publication.
MARY BAXTER			} President.
MARTHA NELSON, 		}
MARY S. CHRISTISON 	} Committee.


MRS. LYLE M. STANSBURY, of Denver,
Col., and Mrs. Helen M. Gougar, of Lafay-
ette, Ind., were among the speakers at the
National Silver Convention at St. Louis.
It is reported that Mrs W. G. White of
Durango, Col., was in attendance as a
delegate-at-large from that State. Mrs.
Gougar proposed to organize a Woman’s
Silver League. Ex.
	THE managers of the Centennial at
Cleveland, O., set July 28, apart for wo-
men, who began their program at nine
o’clock in the Armory. “Philanthropy”
was the topic discussed at ten o’clock.
Among the speakers was Mrs. M. Schwab,
representing the national council of
Jewish women. At eleven o’clock “House-
hold Economies” was the topic; Mrs. Helen
Campbell was the principal speaker. One
o’clock was club hour, and many women
prominent in women’s clubs, made short
speeches. At 12.30 Mrs. May Wright
Sewall discussed the domestic effects of the
higher education of women. Women active
in club and philanthropic work from all
parts of the country were there, and the
gathering was a notable one.	Ex.
	REV. ANNA H. Shaw delivered a lec-
ture on a recent Saturday night at Los
Angeles, the proceeds of which are to be
added to the fund for the relief of Mrs.
Phoebe Couzins. The collection netted
$1100.


THE Deceased Wife’s Sister Bill has pass-
ed at last, and an Englishman may, if he
and she wish, marry the sister of his dead
wife—often a natural and suitable thing to
do. To Americans the danger of the wife’s
dying by slow poison that this end might
be obtained, has always seemed absurdly,
remote.
	Since the news of the passage of this
bill, it has been stated that the bill has
not yet passed the House of Commons,


DR. MAGGIE C. SHIPP
will commence her next class in OBSTETRICS
AND NURSING on Monday, October 12th,
1896, at her residence, 437 E. Second South Street,
Telephone 383. Special arrangements made when
counties send more than one person. The follow-
ing ladies from the doctor’s classes have passed
successful examinations before the State Medical
Board, and received certificates to practice:
	Annie Calvin, Eden, Weber Co., Utah.
	E. A. Froever, Huntsville, Weber Co., Utah.
	Sarah H. Reed, Woodruff, Rich Co., Utah.
	Fannie V. Schutt, Meadowvllle, Rich Co., Utah.
	Lucinda Patten, Payson, Utah Co., Utah.
	Mary Hond, Benjamin, Utah Co., Utah.
	Annie Tillotson, Ogden City, Weber Co., Utah.
	Mary A. Turner, West Jordan, Salt Lake Co., Utah.
	Carrie Johnson, Union, Salt Lake Co., Utah.
	Annie Thurber, Richfield, Sevier Co., Utah.
	Mary Dewey, Deweyville, Box Elder Co., Utah.
	Minnie Baird, Layton, Davis Co., Utah.
	Sarah White, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Mary Edwards, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Millie Reynolds, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Carrie Anderson, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Mary Higgs, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Biddie Erickson, Salt Lake City, Utah.
	Emily Lish, Rockland, Oneida Co., Idaho.

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT will commence
the winter class in midwifery October 7, 1896.
Several situations in small families for board.
Special terms to students sent by the Relief
Society. For further particulars please com-
municate with		DR. PRATT,  
		226 Constitution Bldg., Main Street,
				Salt Lake City, Utah.

LOW RATES TO THE EAST.
	Your attention is directed to the exceptionally
low rates in effect this coming season to nearly
every prominent point in the East.
	Never before has such an excellent opportunity
been afforded for a Summer Vacation Tour, or for
visiting friends in the East. We mention below a
few of the places to which greatly reduced rates
have been made. The UNION PACIFIC is the line
that will give you the best service to any of these
points.
Chicago, Ill., July 7. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Buffalo, N. Y., July 7-11. Rate—One fare for the round trip
	plus $2.00.
Washington, D. C., July 7-13. Rate—One fare for the round
	trip.
Milwaukee, Wis., July 16-19. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Omaha, Neb., July 21-24. Rate—One and one-third fare on
	certificate plan.
St. Louis, Mo., July 22. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Omaha, Neb., August 16-24. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Cleveland, Ohio, August 23-30. Rate—(Probably) one fare for
	the round trip.
Milwaukee, Wis., Aug. 25-27. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
St. Paul, Min., September 1-4. Rate—One fare for the round
	trip (in some cases less).
	For full information as to dates of sale and limit of tickets,
time of trains, etc., call on
CITY TICKET OFFICE 201 MAIN STREET.
D. E. BURLEY, G. A. P. D.	D. S. TAGGART, T. P. A,

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 


