VOL. 25.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, OCTOBER 1, 1896.	NO. 7.


CONTENTS:
	Thread—M. C. Woods. Leaves From. My
Journal—Kim. Sixtieth Wedding Anniversary—
Alice M. Tyler Tanner. Idaho Equal Suffrage
Planks. Ellen Hartwell—Camelia. In Memoriam.
Relief Society Conference—L. D. Alder. Wed-
ding Anniversary—Alice M. T. Tanner. Forest
Dale Relief Society.
	EDITORIAL:—Among The Pines. Women In
Politics. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—My Ship—Elizabeth Akers Allen.
A Year After Marriage—Lulu. Unfinished—
Lydia D. Alder.


MY SHIP.

DOWN to the wharves, as the sun goes down,
	And the daylight’s tumult and dust and din
Are dying away in the busy town,
	I go to see if my ship comes in.

I gaze far over the quiet sea,
	Rosy with sunset like mellow wine,
Where ships like lilies lie tranquilly,
	Many and far—but I see not mine.

I question the sailors every night,
	Who over the bulwarks idly lean,
Noting the sails as they come in sight,
	“Have you seen my beautiful ship come in?”

“Whence does she come?” they ask of me, 
	Who was her master? and what her name?’ 
And they smile upon me pityingly
	When my answer is ever and ever the same. 

Oh, mine was a vessel of strength and truth;
	Her sails were as white as the young lamb’s
		fleece,
She sailed long since from the port of Youth;
	Her master was Love, her name was Peace.

And like all beloved and beauteous things,
	She faded in distance and doubt away
With only a tremble of snowy wings,
	She floated swan-like down the bay.

Carrying with her a precious freight,
	All I had gathered by years of pain—
A tempting prize to the pirate Fate;
	And still I watch for her back again.

Watch for the earliest morning light
	Till the pale stars grieve o’er the dying day,
To catch the gleam of her canvas white
	Among the islands that gem the bay.

But she comes not yet; she will never come
	To gladden my eyes and my spirit more;
And my heart grows hopeless and faint and dumb
	As I wait and wait on the lonesome shore,

Knowing the tempest and time and storm
	Have wrecked and shattered my beauteous
		bark;
Rank seaweeds cover her wasting form, 
	And her sails are tattered and stained and dark.
But the tide comes up, and the tide goes down,
	And the daylight follows the night’s eclipse;
And still, with the sailors tanned and brown,
	I wait on the wharves and watch the ships.

And still with a patience that is not hope,
	For vain and empty it long hath been,
I sit on the rough shore’s rocky slope
	And watch to see if my ship comes in.
				ELIZABETH AKERS ALLEN.


[Column 1]
THREAD?
	CERTAINLY, one of the very commonest
of necessities of human invention, as well
as one of the two oldest, since our mother
Eve must have used some sort of thread to
sew the strings on her fig leaf apron. Of
all the different kinds of thread, none ap-
peal more strongly to our imagination and
interest than the “Thread of Destiny.”—
The ancient Romans and Greeks imagined
a grave maiden called Clotho, spun from
her distaff the destiny of man, and as she
spun, one of her sisters, Lachesis, worked
out the events wh[-]ch were in store, and
Atrops, the other sister, cut the thread at
the point when death was to occur. There
are many curious stories and legends about
thread among them the one of “A St.
Thomas Thread.” The tale is that St.
Thomas planted Christianity in China and
then returned to Malabar; here he saw a
huge timber floating on the sea near the
coast, the King endeavoring with a force
of men and elephants to haul it ashore, but
it would not stir. St. Thomas desired
leave to build a church with it, and his re-
quest being granted he dragged it easily
ashore with a piece of pack thread.
	You remember the story of the Greek
maiden Arachire, who was so vain of her
skill with the needle and thread that she
defied Minerva to contest and so excited the
ire of the goddess that she changed her into
a spider, that she and her posterity might
spin thread forever.
	The first thread of which we have any
record, was that from which the first piece
of manufactured cloth was produced on the
surface of this Terrestial globe by an ingen-
ious artisan of “Nodville,” and whose
name (as his Holiness Pope Alexander
tells us) was Arkite Ghiden Glselen; it
was akin to what we call matting and was
produced of thread made of leaf stems and
fibers. The next obvious improvement in
thread was the twisting of the peel of rush-
es into fine strings, by which means supe-
rior textures were produced, but this was
not till after the death of Methuselah.
Threads from the first were used to weave
matting on a flexible sort of cloth, where-
with our ancestors covered their nakedness
and consequently after the first discovery
numerous experiments were made with the
fibres of different plants, among them,
hemp and flax, to produce as fine filaments
as possible; and I can’t help thinking that
the first idea of spinning with the distaff
was taken from the much abused little
spider, and no doubt exists in my mind, as
to Eve having taken lessons in sewing
from the deft little tailor bird. Gilroy says,
“We are creditably informed, that the de-
cendants of our first parents obtained the
knowledge of spinning flax into thread, by
supernatural agency.”
	Thread of gold, silver, silk, flax, wood
and cotton were known to the ancients, as
far back as we have any authentic history.
In the Bible we have constant allusions to
embroidery and raiment of fine needle work
and the embroidery of Pomegrantes of
purple and blue and scarlet, around the

[Column 2]
hem thereof, of the High Priests robe.
The Grecian ladies were celebrated in very
early times for their skill in embroidery and
needlework, necessitating certainly the use
of various threads. On the Tombs and
Sarcophagi of the Egyptians are depicted
on the outer tunics and robes of State, edg-
ings of crotchet in gold, silver and divers
colors of thread. The Romans were fami-
liar with gold thread work, and even, as
the discovery of gold needles in the Scan-
dinavian Tumuli can testify, the love of
ornamentation by thread work was known
to exist among less civilized nations of
antiquity. The custom of knightly families
to send out their daughters to the castles of
their Suzerian Lords, to be taught the art
of spinning and embroidery was common in
Europe and continued until the middle of
the 18th Century.
	In the Public Record Office, Eng., there
is a charge of 8 shillings for the silk thread
bought for embroidery work for Margaret,
daughter of Edward 1st, and another entry
for 4 oz. of gold thread.
	The manufacture of thread is a branch of
trade so intimately connected with that of
all ordinary textile fabrics, that you must
pardon me if I lose at any time the thread
of my discourse, and encroach on topics
nearly allied to my own.
	The manufacture of cotton thread is the
outstanding feature of the industries of
Paisley, and is carried forward on a great
scale at Glasgow. From Paisley alone,
there is probably sent out a greater weight
and length of sewing thread, than from all
the other factories of Great Britain com-
bined.
	The manufacture of cotton thread thro’
the universal introduction of sewing ma-
chines, which generally carry double
threads, has greatly increased within the
last 30 or 40 years. The process of thread
making is chiefly carried on by Twisters,
who secure the spun cotton from the fac-
tories; and it is considered in our time an al-
together separate business from that of
spinning. The manufacture of sewing
cotton is, therefore, generally understood
as confined to the twisting or doubling of
yarn previously obtained from the spinner.
When the yarn is received it is tested by
being reeled from the cops (or spindles) and
having a certain length of hank weighed;
this is called sizing. The next process
is winding it on bobbins 2 or 3 ply, as re-
quired; these bobbins are taken to the
twisting frame and twisted, first 2 ply, then
this is doubled or trebled for 4 or 6 cord,
as required. Each yarn has it own twist,
that is, the number of twists it gets per inch.
When finished the thread is taken from the
twisting frames, and according to the size so
much is wound upon a large bobbin, from
which it is reeled into hanks for bleaching
and dying. After bleaching, it is given
out in bundles to the hank winders, who
wind it on large bobbins, and in turn is
hauded to the spooler who fills the spool
with a certain length of thread, 100 200
300 yds. and upwards, the thread passing
through a gas flame on its way from
machine to spool, to remove the hanging


[Column 1]
fibre and render it smooth. The largest
portion of thread made is sold on spools;
after the spools are filled they are labelled
on each end arranged in dozens and grosses,
papered and stringed and finished for the
market. The principal qualities used are
3-4 and 6 cord. A large quantity of
thread is now polished and is known to the
trade as glace; crochet and embroidery
cottons and linens are manufactured by a
somewhat similar process. The spools are
made of birch and ash obtained chiefly from
the Highlands of Scotland. Clarks O. N
T. Jno. Clark Jr., Mile End and J. P. Coats
best six cord come from Scotland, tho’ the
Scotch spindles are only as 1, to 25 of the
English, and their power looms as 1 to 14.
In Great Britain in 1819—the quantity of
cotton thread or yams produced by spinning
was 98,566,200 lb, consumed at home—
80,480,790 lb, exported—18,085,410 lb.
In 1876—57 years later 1,131,056,000 lb
were produced---232,150,000 lb were ex-
ported-- 898,906,000 consumed at home.
The value of capital invested is at least,
£87,000,000 or $435,000,000 which figures
are for Great Britain alone.
	Up to 1791 America possessed no manu-
facture of thread except for domestic pro-
duction and family use, but a cotton mill
was erected that year in the State of Rhode
Island. Today it has become an impor-
tant industry, but the product now exceeds
the demand for home consumption, and
under the influence of protection the very
means we adopt to shut out all other man-
ufactures from our markets, must and does
have the effect of shutting out our own from
the markets of the world.
	But let us leave dry statistics for more
pleasant knowledge. Most of our embroid-
ery cottons, linens and silks come from
France and a few from the Continental
countries. Threads of such gossamer fine-
ness they rival the marvelous filaments
spun by the spiders on our rose bushes,
used for making the finest Brussels lace, is
spun by hand, from flax, in an under-
ground room, as contact with the dry air
causes the thread to break. The spinners
of this “airy tissue” must do the work in
dark rooms where but a single ray of light,
from a narrow aperture is admitted and the
room is so arranged that the faint gleam
falls directly on the work; by the most in-
tense attention, and eye discipline of the
severest kind, they accomplish their pain-
fully difficult task. This fine thread is
worth its weight and more in gold, ranging
in price from $800, $1,500 to $2,500
a pound. A pound is sufficient to manu-
facture lace worth $3,500. No wonder
such workers lose their eyesight in a few
years, or that such fabulous prices must be
paid for such thistle down tissues.
	The finest thread used in this country is
3 cord, used for point lace, 1 sample cotton,
1, linen embroidery cotton loose twist
comes 4 cord, linen 2 cord, hosiery cotton
2 cord, Paris lisle 2 and 3 cord, machine
sewing silk 3 cord, knitting silk 2 cord,
embroidery silk 2 and 3 cord.
	It remained for our generation, so far as
known, to spin the exceeding fine threads
of  glass, so flexible as to supply material for
dress goods, ribbons, ties etc., and table
cloths and napkins. And, so we see,
thread of some sort is the foundation of
modesty, (as we understand it) comfort,
cleanliness, convenience and fashion of the
people of our day. From the coarsest
twine to the finest cobweb thread we are

[Column 2]
indebted to plant life, as even Solomon in
all his glory of purple and fine linen was in-
debted to the humble little lily of the field,
the blue flax blossom!!

	Hoping that the yarn I have spun, may
weave in with the warf and woof woven by
others, without marring the finished web,
I will close like the wearied seamstress, by
cutting off the thread!!!
M. C. WOODS.
WALLACE, IDAHO, Sep. 1894.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

	WE now crossed over the river,
passing the home of Horace and had a view
of the cascades and falls, and of the plain
and hills and Rome, the Dome of St. Peter
above everything else, and the sun was just
over it so the effect was fine; then to Ha-
drian’s Villa, it covered a square mile, dates
from the later years of this far-traveled
Emperor. ’Tis said when he saw in any
country anything splendid he returned and
added one like it to this Palace; it was a
marvel of architecture and landscape
gardening. From the 16th Century to the
present day the ruins furnished works of
art, including many of the principal
treasures of the Vatican, and the ruins still
retain traces of mosaic and beautiful colored
marble, inlaying one marble with another,
and glass molded in ornamental relief,
while some of the magnificent grounds re-
main as they were. From here he could
look at Rome and the magnificent land-
scape he used to drive out in his chariot
with his slaves running at the horses heads,
and if one fell dead they passed on. He
built the Villa, paying his workmen with
the lash if they fainted under their burdens.
Do you wonder God buried it all? We
came home just at sunset when he went
down in a bank of gold; soon purple clouds
fringed the gold; it made me think of the
New Jerusalem where the walls are all
jasper and gold, and as the beautiful scene
receded from my view, I felt regret that the
day was ended. At night as the moon was
just right, I drove to the Colosseum and
Forum; there were no ugly shadows, the
Arches, Colosseum and Palaces were intox-
catingly, divinely beautiful. The driver
said “Ladies you don’t know how beauti-
ful Rome is until you see it by moonlight.”
	Tuesday, 26. Taking a last look at the
obelisk brought from Egypt and set up in
honor of Apollo by Augustus, then a drive
on the Pincian Hill, adorned with rostral
columns, statues, marble bas-reliefs, inter-
spersed with cypresses and pines.
	A winding road lined with memosas and
other flowering shrubs leads to the upper
platform now laid out in public drives and
gardens, but till twenty years ago a desert-
ed waste where the ghost of Nero was be-
lieved to wander in the middle ages. The
Eternal City is seen spread at our feet and
beyond it the wide spreading Campagna,
till a silver line marks the sea melting into
the horizon beyond Ostia. Then the Arch-
es which record important historical events;
Arch of Titus, the destruction of Jerusalem
the Jews loathe it; ’tis said to this day
no Jew has passed through it; Arch of
Septimius Severus, the victory over the
Parthians; that of Constantine, the end of
the tyrannical reign of Maxentius.
	The rest of the day was devoted to shop-
ping and packing trunks.

[Column 2]
	Wednesday, Nov. 27. Left at an early
hour for Naples 161 miles southeast from
Rome. Upon leaving the station we took
a regretful look at the enormous Dome of
St. Peter then made ourselves comfortable
for the day. As we traveled along I re-
marked to our guide, “We would call
those mountains, hills in America, what do
you call mountains?” these are 8,000 ft.
high; they did not seem so. The Appen-
nines traverse Italy in its whole length
from north to south dividing it nearly
equally; their highest point is Mount Car-
no, 9,521 feet above sea level; they are not
peaked but smooth and undulating their
bare rocks appearing only at their highest
point. The vegetation covers them up to
3,000 ft., on the lower belts the olive, palm,
citron and orange grow, which we saw on
the tops of some old mountains. We pass-
ed Caserta not far from Naples, noted for
its royal palaces built in 1752 by Charles
III, an immense pile with extensive gardens
called the Versailles of Naples. Excepting
a few Monastaries nothing of special interest
until the volcano of Vesuvius; it was
night and the view unsurpassed. A few
moments brought us to Naples the "City
of Sirens.”
	Arriving at Hotel Royal des Etrangers,
my bedroom was beautifully situated, the
evening was warm, I stood at the open
window and looked out upon the quay; the
beautiful Bay and beyond to the Promon-
tory then to the street below where soldiers
were marching, listening to their music,
thought it delightful to be here. The
city has a magnificent situation, rising like
an amphitheatre from the shore.
	On the west is the Castle of St. Elmo
once of immense strength, which covers
the hill of St. Erosmo. On the seaside are
the fortresses of Castle Nuovo often com-
pared to the Tower of London, and adorned
with a triumphal arch in honor of Alfonso
of Aragon, 1442. The Castle dell Ovo
with its traditions about Virgil probably
built by Norman Wm. I. 1150.
	The city is divided into the old and the
new town by the ridge extending from the
palace of Capodimonte to the sea, dividing
the city into a double crescent. Many of
the streets are crooked, narrow and steep;
the principal Via Roma (formerly Toledo)
winds along the curving shore of the Bay
and is the fashionable promenade of the
city and commands fine views; the lower
part of the street showed us the habits and
life of the lower classes. Some pictures
were striking and unlike anything I ever
saw except Indian scenes in early days.
The beggars annoy one so persistently and
seem happy; along the shore the fishermen
sell you the sea-horse for luck, and one
told me he would eat a devil fish for a sue,
a hidous looking fish they seem fond of.
I replied nothing would induce me to look
at him and he seemed to understand. Of
the large theatres we saw none, the Prof.
told us the San Carlo was the largest and
most elegant. The National Museum is one
of the most interesting and largest in the
world and contains many treasures from
Pompeii and the best bronzes found at Her-
culaneum. The aquarium is most inter-
esting containing a complete collection of
sea fishes. The church domes glitter with
gilded and colored tiles, the Cathedral San
Gennaro contains the priceless treasures of
the Saints and the small phials said to con-
tain the blood of St. Gennaro, which is be-
lieved to liquify twice every year. Naples


[Column 1]
has a number of squares but they are not
beautiful although decorated with obelisks
and fountains, they looked well trodden,
there was no sign “Keep off the grass.”
The Royal Palace at the extremity of the
Via Roma is home like, the young Prince
resides there; it contains old paintings and
many beautiful things, the Royal entrance
is magnificent, the ballroom is handsome;
leading from it on each side are a series of
beautiful rooms where the dancers sit or
promenade. The effect is like that of the
President’s room in the Capital at
Washington, D. C., looking into the mir-
rors the room each side is reflected a score
of times, a most beautiful sight; the theatre
is pretty but does not compare with those
of the Bourbon Princes. The double Balcony
was a dream of delight, with exquisite
views of the Bay and Vesuvius.
	Thursday Nov. 28. A fair day and calm
sea, we determined to visit the wonderful
Blue Grotto or “Grotto of the Nymphs,”
as should the sea be rough it would be im-
possible to enter there. Capri is an island
of Italy in the Mediterranean at the entrance
of the Bay of Naples, and twenty miles
south of the City of Naples.
	We started early and going aboard a
beautiful yacht steamed away to the Island,
the water beautifully calm and blue, the
views superb, the fiery crest of Vesuvius
a striking contrast. Arriving at Capri the
boats were waiting to take us into the
Grotto, two in a boat. As we neared the
entrance the men shouted to us to lie down,
Miss L. was in my boat, we could not sit
up as the opening was not high enough and
is only visible at low tide; the spectacle
was most beautiful. The chamber is 175
ft. by 100 and is 41 ft. high, illuminated
only from the entrance and by the reflection
from the bottom 60 ft. below; the walls ol
the cave, the boats and people were an in-
describably beautiful blue, the water like a
“Lambent sheet of blue flame,” the oars
looked like they were spangled with jewels,
the boys that dive, look when they come
to the surface, as if incased in blue armor.
	Returning to the yacht we now proceeded
to the picturesque village on the Island
where we were to lunch, then drive.
’Twas here Tiberius passed the last ten
years of his life, where he built twelve vil-
las the remains of which are still to be seen,
and the rock “II Salto” from which it is
said the tyrant used to throw his victims.
As we landed the natives urged us to ride
their donkeys up the steep incline to our
hotel on the edge of a hill with remarka-
ble views of the sea and Isles. The lunch
was served on the veranda surrounded with
orange, lemon and cition trees; the natives
sold us beautiful coral. After lunch we
drove about the Island. There were mar-
velous views of villas, garden, and castles
and the imposing volcano which we seem
never to lose sight of. Returning to the
yacht we resumed our voyage to Sorrento
where we were to remain the night. Arriv-
ing at Grand Hotel Victoria situated on the
very margin of the Cliffs we entered what
seemed like a tunnel where the porters were
waiting for us with the information, “The
lilt was out of repair;” so we walked up
this steep incline, entered the gardens and
passed into the hotel. The proprietor met
us and we were shown to our rooms, our
baggage soon followed and we dressed for
Table d' Hote at 7 o’clock.
	This part of Italy has a world-wide repu-
tation for beauty of scene and charm

[Column 2]
of climate. My window commands views
of the Bay and hills. I walked out upon
the terrace, the air was warm and filled
with perfume, the moonlight dazzling, and
down the Cliffs is the swish of the blue
waters; the scene was just heavenly. At
dinner there were other Americans who
came via Gibraltar, will remain two weeks.
The dinner was extremely fine, at dessert,
the waiter passed me something wrapped in
grape leaves “A specialite” of Sorrento,
they were dried grapes of delicious flavor
another “Indian fruit,” which is found to
be cactus fruit. I had eaten the fruit of
the cactus, this was sweeter.
	After dinner we went into the ballroom
where the natives danced and sang for us
dressed in their gorgeous costumes; they
were very graceful. Among the dances by
men and women was the Tarentalla and 
the Zingarella, very beautiful. Their
voices too were fine and they finished the
entertainment with “God save the Queen”
for the English guests, and “Yankee
Doodle” for the Americans; we all rose to
our feet while they sang. The evening
passed delightfully.
						KIM.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


SIXTIETH WEDDING ANNIVER-
SARY.

	[REFLECTIONS on the sixtieth wedding
anniversary of Patriarch Daniel Tyler and
wife, by their daughter Alice M. Tyler
Tanner.]
	My dear Parents, Relatives and Friends:
Sixty years ago today a young man and
maiden started on a voyage down the
stream of life together. They were then
in the bloom of youth, and life was bright
before them. They had one grand lofty
aim in view, and pressed forward hand in
hand determined to win the reward
promised to those who falter not.
	Together they have shared their joys and
sorrows and when demons have attacked
their little boat and declared they should
not win the prize, they pressed boldly for-
ward and left far behind those who sought
their destruction.
	Again we see them when the young
man was called to fight for his country’s
cause and leave his dear companion’s side.
She took the oars and guided the little ves-
sel safely on its course until the flag of our
country was planted on this dear soil of
ours, where once the rule of Mexican au-
thority had been.
	Again we see them side by side and as
the years go swiftly by, other forms and
faces are welcomed by them on their little
vessel. Three generations now claim a
share in their love and none are repelled,
but a blessing is ever on the lips of this
dear couple who are now feeble and grey,
not only for their own little crew, but for
the many others who seek their blessings
and counsel.


MRS. JOHN MUNROE, of Elbridge, N.
Y., seventy-five years of age, made a quan-
tity of maple syrup with her own hands
from the trees that grew in her yard. She
then invited her friends to come to her
house and partake of it. By this unique
“Suffrage Sociable” she cleared ten dollars
for the Organization Fund.
	MISS CLARA BARTON, has arrived in
New York. She declines to talk much
to interviewers, but is preparing a detailed


report of her work for the National Red
Cross Society and the Relief Committee.
It will be awaited with much interest.
Miss Barton declares, however, that the
Armenians were starving, and that they
must be helped. “The problem which
will confront the civilized world next win-
ter,” Miss Barton said, “is whether it
will permit these poor people to starve to
death. It is one that demands an im-
mediate answer. The world has a respon-
sibility on its hands.”
	MRS. MAY WRIGHT SEWALL attended
the Peace Congress at Buda Pesth last
month.


A YEAR AFTER MARRIAGE

A year ago today, we knelt
	Before the sacred shrine;
And only peace and joy I felt,
	To link my fate with thine.

You ask me now if I regret— 
	Had I the power to show
What value on your love I set,
	I need not answer, no ! 

Though fond and tender then you seemed,
	And I no scruples knew;
With all my faith I had not dreamed,
	Of one so wholly true.
							LULA


UNFINISHED.

“LEFT unfinished by the author’s death,”
	So I read the other day;
Left unfinished, the author gone,
	There was nothing more to say.

The story was left unfinished, 
	Though the author’s work was done;
And what he had in his busy brain,
	Not known to any one.

Was he ready, willing, or glad?
	His writing was all put aside,
And never another can finish it,
	Though ever so hard, he tried.

“Left unfinished,” what a tale this tells!
	His character left standing alone;
And all because the author’s work
	Was at that moment done.

Thoughts many and varying rise;
	Shall we finish our story in life?
Will our writings be ended and done,
	Nor left where wondering is ri[-]e?

“Left unfinished” the author gone,
	Can never another’s pen,
Trace his thoughts and tell us
	What the end might have been.

Nay! into the Great Beyond,
	The author has journeyed on;
And heart and brain are resting,
	While the story is left undone.

I wonder how many yet living,
	Will have written on the page,
“Left unfinished by the author’s death,”
	On receipt of the dread message.

There is something pathetic about it,
	Sadly I ponder it o’er;
It tells of hopes dead, and untasted joys,
	And now he can write no more.

Let us swiftly pick up the last stiches,
	And make our lives complete;
That it may not be said “Unfinished,”
	When we go our record to meet.
					LYDIA D. ALDER.


WOMAN S EXPONENT

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
second-cla s matter.

SALT LAKE CITY OCTOBER 1, 1896.


[Column 1]
AMONG THE PINES.

	Up among the pines in the Coeur d’
Alenes is a good place to rusticate if one is
weary and needs repose; “the forest
primeval” is brought to mind forcibly in
that land of woods and solitude. Journey-
ing through the mountains in the beautiful
Autumn months when the bright colors
begin to show wherever the frost has
touched the leaves, and the great pines
that never change but are ever green sigh
and moan in the soft breeze of September,
one cannot help growing sentimental, how-
ever practical one may otherwise be. It is
certainly a beautiful country as far as scen-
ery can make it picturesque, and there are
many romantic incidents to help one’s fer-
tile imagination if one hears the tales of the
miners, the mountaineers and the “old
stagers.”
	The mountains of pine and balsam
beautiful as they are, do not form the only
attraction by any means, the outside is not
the most desirable except to the poet or
enthusiast, it is the shining metal that runs
in veins or is deposited in little pockets far
below the outer surface that appears so
desirous to the eye of the traveler; deep in the
recesses of these vast fastnesses the precious
ore lies buried that is only obtained by
patient toil of the pick, the shovel, and the
brawn and sinew of man. All through
these grand old hills one sees here and
there, the sure signs of the miner seeking
the hidden treasure of which men are so
greedy in this day and age, and which
treasure has been brought to the surface,
and to the mint and the market, by those
hardy sons of toil; some have amassed for-
tunes there, and many more have sunk
their all, little or much, as the case might
be in these holes in the hills. Nevertheless
it is a wonderful country and has a strange
history, very much of it yet unwritten.
There is much in it delightful and also
pathetic, much that is rude and wild and
“uncanny” perchance, but if one were in-
clined to the weird and sensational there is
the material with which to weave fiction if
one had sufficient originality of style suit-
able to the theme. Indeed it is tempting
to one given to a vivid imagination to
undertake the task. A man like Rudyard
Kipling with his genius and power, going
into that locality might add vast riches to
his stock in trade, by visiting the Coeur d’
Alenes and seeing and hearing the variety

[Column 2]
of incidents, experiences and explorations
that have transpired, and wrought their
effects upon the country, its people and its
conditions.
	The grand old woods, the clear running
water, the lovely lakes—all these are
picturesque and charming, and together
with the mining and the people engaged in
the occupation of delving for the “raw
material,” or putting up machinery or
other necessaries, and bringing supplies of
all kinds to keep the whole in motion, the
peculiar methods resorted to for amuse-
ment and recreation while all is crude and
hard and as it were desolate, isolated from
all great cities of commerce and manufac-
tures, few resources and little time to spend
upon culture of mind or manners, methods
and habits of civilization, lonely, yet long-
ing for some change of excitement, catch-
ing at the first new thing that comes when
some new arrival makes an appearance,
these old-time, early miners, one can
scarcely call them settlers, present a phase
of character even a type entirely different
to the men who have since come among
them. They have queer notions of their
own, a bond of fellowship, if one may be
allowed the expression, strong and endur-
ing; many of these miners have ended their
lives in their lonely log cabin in the hills
and are buried under the pines, and the
sighing and moaning of these kings of the
forest are the only requiem chanted over
their graves. Sad to think that no one
mourns, or it may be having waited for
tidings when none came, have lost all heart
while the poor wanderer far from his home
and loved ones dies neglected and alone.


[Column 1]	
WOMEN IN POLITICS.

	THERE never has been a time when
greater wisdom was needed in the exercise
of the franchise than the present, not only
in our own State but throughout the entire
Republic of the United States. In three of
these states women now have equal suf-
frage and are privileged to vote on all sub-
jects even for presidential electors, and
every woman should vote her conscientious
convictions, because of the great responsi-
bility which the subject involves. Women
who have looked forward and anticipated
taking part in governmental matters have
argued that woman’s influence in politics
would be for the betterment of the con-
ditions of society public and private, and
now that this great privilege has been ac-
corded them, it behooves every individual
woman to stand for the right and know for
herself, all that it is possible to comprehend
of the affairs in which she is called to take
part. All the questions before the people
in this campaign seem to be of vital im-
portance and prove beyond a doubt that the
nation is bordering upon some great change,
which ever party comes into power, all the
forces of activity in the great common-
wealth are keenly alive to the practical and
economic side of the great questions, and
other matters and influences must bide
until these are adjusted, so the great leaders
of both parties are saying. And therefore
the small part women can take in political
affairs is looked upon as insignificant ex-
cept in so far as swelling the number of
voters on one side or the other.
	In consequence of this very feeling per-
haps women have not been as energetic in
coming forward as they might otherwise
have been; they have not taken the pains to

[Column 2]
go into the Primaries as it was their duty
to do and vote there, many of them think-
ing it unnecessary and others afraid of being
taxed with boldness or a lack of womanly
modesty; but when great issues are at
stake such as seem imminent at the present
time one must consider the well being of
the community and the best interest of the
people, more than ill-natured remarks or
sarcasm, or even their own private feelings
in the matter. Men may argue that the
only question now, or the paramount one is
the financial question and women know so 
little of it in a public sense banks and 
banking or capital and labor that their
participation except in casting their bal-
lots is of small consequence, but women
should exercise all their powers for the pro-
motion of peace and tranquillity, and exert
to the utmost a moral and uplifting influ-
ence, looking towards a hopeful outcome of
the problems that seem now so difficult of
a peaceful solution. Instead of love pre-
vailing, or any sort of “unity in diversity”
of opinions or views, dissension and ill-feel-
ing seem much more prevalent. In a great
measure this may be modified by women,
who though somewhat diverse in their
ideas of right and wrong, are naturally-
peacemakers; and certainly this sort of ele-
ment is needed now, the old maxim or tru-
ism of “pouring oil on the troubled
waters,” is certainly essential in the pre-
sent state of political affairs. It is always
commendable and never unwomanly to be
valiant in a good cause, and here is the
opportunity; and it may require a great deal
of moral courage. Do not be misled with 
fear of blame, remember strong and vivid
qualities are always recognized and claim
admiration when the struggle is over, even
by one's opponents. Men claim that wo-
men are too emotional to be of any practical
use in politics, but after all are men always
controlled by parliamentary usages? His-
tory does not so record their acts. One of
our great historians says, “A nation with
whom sentiment is nothing, is on the way
to became no nation at all.” Women may
possibly furnish the sentiment in politics,
and let us hope it will be patriotic senti-
ment at all events. And in face of every-
thing however dark the hour may be, ex-
ercise that faith in God and His promises,
that will sustain the drooping spirits of
those around and inspire them with confi-
dence.
	Women have been given the franchise in
this hour of need undoubtedly for a wise
purpose. The spirit that wrought upon
the great women of the nineteenth century,
to urge the claim of equal suffrage was just
as much from the Almighty, as that which
inspired Washington or Columbus. It was
in the interest of the great cause of freedom
and liberty of conscience; and no power
is ever given to the children of men
without responsibility, therefore in confer-
ing upon women the right of suffrage,
there is a corresponding responsibility,
and women will not be altogether excused
(any more than men) if this duty is not
faithfully and conscientiously fulfilled.
	Would that it were possible to con-
vince by any force of reasoning those
who are so indifferent to the public weal,
and even to the conditions that prevail
around them in their own locality. How
anxious tender mothers are that their
children should grow up pure, how can
they when the whole atmosphere outside
their own homes is filled with impure and


unwholesome germs? No woman’s child
is safe until all are safe! And yet wo-
men sit contentedly down and say, what
need have I to care, my husband repre-
sents me, or my son, or my father. Yet
remember if you go wrong, if your son,
or daughter, or sister is led away, no
one can represent either of them; that
punishment must be met in person. The
law does not permit one’s husband,
father, brother or son to become responsi-
ble for any wrong committed by wife,
daughter, sister or mother.
	The women of Utah have been given
the franchise at an opportune time, they
should see to it that the opportunity is
not thrown away. Those world-famous
words of Nelson at Trafalgar, have been
echoed round the world since that day,
“England expects every man to do his
duty.” At the present time it seems ap-
parent that Utah expects every woman to
do her duty, as well as every man. And
that duty as it appears to the writer, is
not only to cast her ballot but to use her
power of speech whether it be silver or
golden in the direction of “peace and
goodwill,” and the promotion of harmony
instead of friction and a spirit of conten-
tion. These are days of unrest among the
children of men and a power of control, or
strength of self-control is always helpful
in every trying hour, and under all cir-
cumstances. The women of the Latter-
day Saints who have passed through such
trying ordeals, who have been taught such
lessons of humility and self-sacrifice by
the very force of circumstances, above all
women in the world, should be able to
act wisely in the present crisis of affairs
in the new state. And if they are not
recognized as the peers of men, should
show by their fidelity and faith, their
loyalty and love for the principles of
justice and equality that shine so conspicu-
ously in all times of great undertakings or
of telling events, and eventually cannot
fail of recognition. It is incumbent upon
the women of this people to stand by the
right in weal or woe. The future of
which so much has been prophesied de-
mands that there be no failure in the
moral and spiritual courage of the wo-
men of today. “Dare to do right, Dare
to be true,” and trust in God for the re-
sult.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


EDITORAL NOTES.

	AS the cool weather approaches the plea-
sure seekers forsake the mountain retreats
and lake resorts, and are reopening their
houses and making ready for in-door past-
times and amusements. The theatre has
already opened its doors and some most de-
lightful plays have been given and two
very charming concerts are promised for
the present week.
	A BUSINESS meeting of the officers and
members of the State Suffrage Association
will be held on Wednesday, October 7, at
11 a. m. at Room 228 Constitution
Building. All members of Associations
throughout the State, who are in the
city or can come are urgently requested
to attend and take part in the proceedings
as matters, of special importance will be
under consideration.
	THE school children are turning out their
books and pencils and hunting up promo-


tion cards preparatory to the opening of the
city schools and the beginning of the winter
work. While the schools are in a most
promising condition, efficient teachers, plea-
sant buildings and all that, still there is one
most serious charge to make against the
school board, and that is the over-crowding
of the school room. Last year almost every
teacher had twice the number of students he
or she could do justice to, and the rooms
were crowded to such an extent as to en-
danger the health, if not the lives of the
children. If there are no funds for more
buildings surely rooms can be rented and
more teachers employed, even if some of the
salaries have to be lowered. Do not let the
children suffer from badly ventilated rooms.


IDAHO EQUAL SUFFRAGE PLANKS.

	THE following planks were adopted by
the four state conventions of Idaho:
	Resolutions adopted by the Populists
convention: “Believing in equal rights to
all and special privileges to none, we favor
the adoption of the pending woman’s suf-
frage amendment to the constitution.”
	Resolution passed by the Democratic
convention: “We recommend to the
favorable consideration of the voters of the
state the proposed constitutional amend-
ment granting equal suffrage, believing
that this great question should receive the
earnest attention of every person as an im-
portant factor in the future welfare of the
state.
	Resolution passed by the Republican
convention: “We favor the amendment
to the constitution of the state proposed by
the late Republican legislature, including
equal suffrage for men and women, and
recommend their adoption.”
	Resolution passed by the silver Repub-
licans: “We favor the adoption of the
proposed amendment to the constitution of
the state providing for the extension of the
right of suffrage to women; for the separa-
tion of the offices of county school superin-
tendent and probate judge, and for the sub-
stitution of a state attorney for each judic<ia>l
district.”


[Column 1]
ELLEN HARTWELL

	“THERE it is finished and the work is
done if only they accept it even for second;”
thus spoke a young woman as she sealed-
up a neatly arranged package with accom-
panying letter for the mail. Ellen Hartwell
had been teaching her first half year in the
public school and as the holidays approach-
ed and she anticipated a visit to her country
home, she began to realize how much she
would need to purchase the gifts she would
be expected to bring and how little she had
saved from her salary for that purpose.
Poor Ellen, when the salary of forty dollars a
month was offered her, both to herself and
family it seemed a small fortune, for she
had been raised in a country town where
money was a rare commodity and the people
could barter and exchange their different
articles and live quite comfortably if not
luxuriously without a sight of it for months
together, and Ellen had always seemed ex-
ceptionally bright, the parents had made
many sacrifices that she might receive a
good education. Other children it is true,
had to attend to many of the home duties
to give her sufficient time to study and
were deprived in various ways. “But never

[Column 2]
mind dears,” the gentle, mother would say,
“Ellen will pay it all back some day. She
will come home and teach you and help
you along just as we help her now.” Poor,
proud, expectant mother, how many of
your kind are in the world today sacrificing
the whole family that one ambitious, selfish
child may have her desires.
	’Tis true, at heart, Ellen meant well; she
knew the whole family had gone without
necessary things that she might live in the
city and attend the university for the four
years normal course, but one year of teach-
ing she believed would pay it all back, she
did not dream of the many expenses the
city life would bring her for she loved
society, she loved music and she always
had adored nice clothes, besides it was quite
necessary for her to have them on else peo-
ple would guy her and say she was
countryfied and that she could never endure,
not that she was ashamed of having come
from the country, oh no indeed, but she
wanted folks to think if a country girl she
had just as good taste and manners as the
city-bred. So she reasoned and so she ex-
cused herself for her many extravagances
of theatre, and concert tickets, bon bons,
light gloves, fine shoes, dainty waists, her
perfect fitting winter jacket, her feathered
and be-ribboned hat, her perfumes and
flowers and all the trifles which go to com-
pose the paraphernalia of a pretty girl’s
wardrobe. She knew she was pretty and
she loved attention and though she was
rather poor she was somewhat sought after
by girls who had fine homes and plenty of
means, for her society was pleasant and
she always had many admirers. But the
last few days Ellen’s conscience had been
troubling her a good deal; she had received
a letter from her mother with a few hints of
what they father expected her to bring,
and her purse would by no means supply
them. Though vain and thoughtless she
might have been, the last few nights, as
soon as her school work was over she had
been calling to her aid all the intellectual
and literary ability she possessed in order
to write a story in competition f[-]r the prize
of fifteen dollars that a daily paper had of-
fered. The story was at last finished and
the girl co[-]pletely exhausted with hard
work and loss of sleep had now for two
weeks to sit on the anxious seat, for she
would not know before then, what the re-
sult would be. Her fears and hopes were
equally balanced, so much so t[-]at she
dreaded the announcement of the successful
story almost or quite as much as she longed
for it, and at any rate her journey home
would have to be postponed a few days for
she could never face the family without
some remembrance and she had very little
means, scarcely enough to buy her ticket
home. In the begining of the winter she
had promised herself that her mother should
have a fine warm shawl, her two sisters each a
pretty new dress with materials to make
them up, her three brothers, two of them a
pair of skates and the baby, dear, chubby
little Tom a sled, and her dear hard working
father a new overcoat; and now her
one cry was, oh if I only had been careful!
During the school hours the day seemed to
drag and how dreadfully nervous the buzz-
ing lips and scuffling feet of the school
children made her; would the day never end?
how close the school-room felt and how
disagreeable the children were. It was
quite evident Miss Hartwell was not so in-
terested in the children, and their work be-


[Column 1]
gan to tell the story. Complaints reached
the principal and the matter had to be look-
ed into.
	The principal was a rather severe man
though a perfect gentleman and he had
noted the change in his assistant before any
one had complained but he had attributed
it to home sickness brought on by the ap-
proach of vacation, though he was deeply
interested in keeping up the good standard
the school had made, but now it became his
duty to speak to Miss Hartwell quite
plainly of the seeming neglect and the poor
work her pupils were doing.
	All girls like Ellen Hartwell, beautiful,
vain, ambitious and selfish, also possess a
great deal of pride and hauteur and to be
censured for lack of interest in her work
just at this most anxious time was beyond
endurance.
	“Miss Hartwell,” her superior
said, “I am very sorry that I have to
speak to you on this subject but the parents
of your pupils are not at all satisfied with
the work their children are doing; they
claim you have no order in the school room,
and the children take no interest whatever
in their work and are not progressing at all.
I should not have noticed these complaints
just at this time had I not myself discover-
ed something wrong in your school room,
and unless there is a radical change before
the end of the summer the trustees will
certainly supply your place with a more
efficient teacher.”
	What a speech for a conscience strick-
en, anxious girl to hear! At first
she blushed scarlet, then turned death-
ly white as though she should faint,
then a great lump rose in her throat and
she knew she was about to cry, but the
thought of such a humiliation caused her
to muster all her pride to her assistance
and after a few moments painful silence
during which time she swallowed the lump
in her throat, brushed the tears from her
eyes and tried to call back some color to
her face, she slowly and quietly asked:
	“How long, Mr. Barton have I seemed to
give such poor satisfaction?”
	“I have heard no complaint nor seen any-
thing wrong with your school work, Miss
Hartwell, until recently, within the last
two weeks perhaps.”
	“Thank you,” was all she said and
turning slowly she was leaving the room
without either explanation or promise,
when the principal called her back, for
though he had noticed her fondness for
society and pretty extravagances, and had
wondered sometimes if she only had herself
to think of, he had always admired her
punctuality and conscientious school work,
for to her credit Ellen had striven to earn
her money by good, faithful work. She
had said it is such a pleasure to have means
and be able to enjoy it, and her fault had
been she had enjoyed too freely.
	“Miss Hartwell you must consider this
moment well and take no rash step; I
presume you have to earn your living or
else you would not be away from home
teaching, and remember should you be
dismissed from the public school for incom-
petentcy or lack of interest it would be very
hard for you to get another situation. A
past record is always required before engag-
ing a teacher and I would strongly advise
you to lose no time in disproving any state-
ment made against you, by more earnest,
diligent work than you have ever done be-
fore. Give up for the present at least,

[Column 2]
some of the amusements and pastimes in
which you indulge, associate more with
children, call on their parents and be more
particular about their deportment and study
while in school. I do not wish to infer so
much neglect of these duties, but this is
a most serious matter with you, and I
would like to see you look at it in that way;
conquer your pride and submit humbly to
the duty of a teacher.”
	She could stand no more; at first she
broke out in disgust. How she hated those
tattling quarreling children who had to be
humored and coaxed and persuaded this
way and that, and still more how she hated
those abominable parents, who could scarce-
ly endure their own children’s voice for the
short afternoon but expected a teacher to
take a whole room full of them and love
them and adore them and put up with all
their impudence and ignorance and be per-
fectly delighted to have the chance; call on
them! indeed she would do no such thing;
and those horrible trustees always did make
her blood turn cold and her heart stop
beating, even when she saw them ap-
proaching for they were always looking for
flaws and trying to show their own supe-
rior knowledge. She hated the sight of
them all, the trustees, the parents, the
children, the school rooms, the books; it
was all a perfect nightmare. Having
relieved herself thus far by this unwise,
hysterical speech she burst into a flood of
tears; she knew she had done a very fool-
ish thing and all her beauty, wit and pride
would have to be humbled now to the very
dust if she hoped for any favor from Mr.
Barton or had any desire to retain her posi-
tion, and this she certainly did hope, for
what in the world would she do if she lost
it and how in the world could she ever face
her darling parents and her home friends
or indeed her new made city friends either;
oh why was she so weak and foolish! As
her weeping grew less noticeable Mr. Bar-
ton said “I am extremely sorry Miss
Hartwell you look upon your position in so
light a manner and though I am perfectly
aware of the trials of teaching I can scarce-
ly sympathize with your feelings; you
should never have chosen such a profession
if you did not love it. A teacher must en-
joy his work or he can never make a suc-
cess of it. My dinner will be waiting and
if you have sufficiently recovered I think
we had better close this painful interview.”
	There was no help for it now she had to
go, even had she ever so many confessions
to make she could’nt keep a man any long-
er when he said his dinner was waiting, oh
how she hated the thought of eating but
trust a man to turn all sentiment, all pity
everything aside if the thought of dinner
enter his head and for once she was wise
enough to be quiet and withdraw. With
a quiet good evening, they separated, he to
his home and a well prepared dinner, with
a mind filled with the idea he had been
most thoughtful and careful of her feelings,
and yet perfectly just to her; and she—it
would be difficult to tell the state her mind
was in; she knew he had been just, and
she foolish and yet she blamed him, that
he did not consider her circumstances.
Poor unreasonable soul, how could he do
that when he did not know them. As she
became calmer, with her walk home in the
open air, she began to consider this fact
and also the real seriousness of her position
and began to study some way out of her
dilemma. If this school trouble had not

[Column 3]
happened she might have asked for a small
advance of her wages but now of course
that was wholly out of the question, per-
haps her position too was gone. Oh, what
could she do! borrow she would not, even
if some girl friend would be willing, it
would place her in such a peculiar light
with them; after all she had only spent
her own money, and goodness knows, she
had worked hard enough for it. She would
have to write home that she could not come
and send them a few trifles and then, when
the summer vacation came she would have
something nice to bring them. Her posi-
tion she determined to keep, no matter
what it cost her pride she would write to
Mr. Barton a note, apologize and tell him
about her anxiety, her loss of sleep and the
whole truth, and promise to do differently;
thus she condoled with herself and planned
as she walked along and her thoughts
grew more hopeful, her heart grew lighter
so by the time she had reached her board-
ing house all traces of her secret disturbance
had disappeared, only she was a trifle pale.
	“Why are you so late Miss Nellie? A
messenger boy has been here with a note
for you, and he has waited a very long
time for an answer.”
	The note was an invitation to an opera
that evening and she had so wanted to go,
but could she accept under the circum-
stance, she hastily ascended to her room,
examined her wardrobe and saw she must
certainly have new gloves, oh well she
might as well begin now to make her
sacrifices. She had on that homeward
walk seen all to plainly how much had
been sacrificed for her and though no ac-
count had been kept, she fully realized that
her debt was a great one and would take
her a very long time to repay. So she 
wrote a very short note declining the invita-
tion, making the excuse that she was
suffering from head ache which was indeed
true and heart ache as well, for she was
greatly touched. Before going again down
stairs she wrote a very courteous note to
Mr. Barton, in which she confessed her ex-
travagance and how she had over-strained
her nerves trying to write her story, in fact
she told him her whole story, as an excuse
for her poor school work and closed with a
neat, little apology to him for her behavior
that afternoon. The landlady’s boy was
dispatched with the note and it reached
Mr. Barton just as he had finished a very
satisfactory dinner finding him in the
best of spirits. A very fortunate time for
Miss Hartwell. If ever one wants a favor
from a man, try to ask it at such a time, it
will go down awfully well with a good
dinner. Mr. Barton’s wife was a very
kind hearted, motherly woman and though
she had scarcely liked this pretty assistant
of her husband’s, thinking her rather frivo-
lous, still this simple note, laying bare the
girl’s follies, desires, failures and hopes
touched the tender chords of her kind heart
and won her over completely. She insisted
on her husband taking her over to see Miss
Hartwell that very night and talk over her
affairs. Ellen was a little surprised, not to
say annoyed when Mr. and Mrs. Barton
sent up their cards and desired a few mo-
ments conversation with her, she had hoped 
after her note and her own battle with her-
self to have a quiet evening and not to
think of the ordeal she had passed, but she
went into the sitting room quite prepared
for a lecture or two on morality, selfishness
and frivolity or some such subject, with


[Column 1]
perhaps a condescending forgiveness. She
felt equal to anything, for a listless, dulness
had come over her and she was resigned to
suffer anything. To her surprise, Mrs.
Barton met her at the door, put her arms
gently around her and kissed her tenderly
on the forehead. She had never met the
girl before but her heart had gone out to
her and she was one of those few women,
who can love and protect and aid another
woman when the mind is distressed, with-
out words, simply by the tender touch of
sympathy.
	“My dear girl,” she said “we want you
to come home with us and spend this last
week before your vacation, Mr. Barton in-
tended mentioning it before, but men are
so forgetful.”
	Now to tell the truth, Mr. Barton had no
idea what his wife had intended to do, and
he was as much surprised as Nelly at the
invitation, but he saw in an instant how
such an arrangement would benefit her, she
would save a week’s board and as the guest
of her principal would probably stand in a
better light concerning her school work.
She was herself too surprised by the invita-
tion to notice how slow Mr. Barton was to
second it, nor could she at first see any ad-
vantage it might bring her. In fact in her
present state of mind she felt she must de-
cline, but Mrs. Barton refused to take
no, for an answer and was so cordial and
motherly with it all, that Nelly finally con-
sented. The week was very busy for Ellen
Hartwell; she kept her promise and work-
ed incessantly to regain favor with the
school children, their parents and the board.
In that she succeeded admirably al-
though at times it seemed that the noise of
the school room would drive her wild, still
she did not complain or show her annoy-
ance, and her past neglect was soon for-
gotten. On the fifteenth of December, she
received a note from the newspaper and her
hand trembled so with fear and hope com-
bined that she could not open it. Mrs.
Barton knew the secret about the story and
had never doubted that Ellen Hartwell
would get the prize, so with a steady hand
and much assurance she opened the envel-
ope and discovered a check for ten dollars
and the brief notice, “Miss Ellen Hartwell,
your story signed Nelly received second
prize, and will be published after the holi-
days.’’ After all what did she expect, she
was disappointed yet she had hardly dared
to hope this much, at any rate her trip
home could now be taken and though she
could not do as much for them as she had
hoped, and knew her parents expected, still
with Mrs. Barton’s good judgment and keen
bargaining she was able to do considerable
and take home very useful and pretty pre-
sents. The baby’s sled she had set her
heart on and that was the only toy she
bought, other gifts were useful. Her
friends in the city she was forced to slight,
though they remembered her very prettily.
Had it not been for Mrs. Barton’s protec-
tion she might have been tempted to do
less for her loved ones and more for her
newer friends, but that good lady was the
friend in need, Oh, would that all foolish
girls, when their moment of trial comes,
might fall into such kind and wise care as
Ellen Hartwell did. Her little visit home
was most happy and though her sisters
thought she had been rather lavish on her-
self and done little for them, still they were
very proud of her and were extremely
sorry when she had to return to the city.
The father it was, who saw that his

[Column 2]
daughter had indulged herself and forgot-
ten the great sacrifices that had been made
for her, and he looked with sorrow upon
his girls at home as he realized the partial-
ity that had been shown the oldest girl.
The night before Ellen’s return he took
occasion to tell her of his disappointment.
He talked plainly and firmly, yet not un-
kindly of how the mother and the other
girls had worked and toiled on the farm
with scarcely the comforts of life, while
she had had no burdens and had wanted
nothing. The mother protested for she
was so proud of her oldest daughter, that
she was willing to make any sacrifice but
the father saw the wrong to the others and
to Nelly as well for it had tended to make
her more selfish. She acknowledged, to
her father the right of his censure and re-
warded him by a confession of her trials
just before coming home and told them
then, for the first time about her story.
She had learned a hard lesson but she be-
lieved a good one, and she was fully deter-
mined to deny herself and save and help
her family hereafter. This she did accom-
plish in different ways, her salary she was
able to save almost entirely for them, for
her first success with literary work prompt-
ed her to continue it and she was able to
make a little money that way, enough at
any rate for the “extras” she allowed her-
self; they were not so many now as
formerly. She never ceased to be grateful
to Mrs. Barton. Had it not been for her she
could never have gone home that winter
and it was more the sight of the denials
and sacrifices of her family than the talk
she had that determined her course of
saving and care. She fulfilled after all the
expectations of her family and became a
most successful teacher and a writer of no
mean ability.
					CAMELIA.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
IN MEMORIAM.

REBECCA M. WILLIAMS.
	SISTER REBECCA MANNING WILLIAMS was
born in Norwich, Norfork, England, April 22,
1858, and emigrated to Utah in her thirteenth
year in company with her mother and brother
Henry. Settled first in the Nineteenth ward in
this city and afterwards moved into the Four-
teenth and finally settled in the Twentieth,
where she met with and was married to, Joseph
S. Williams in 1876. Their’s was one of the very
few ideal marriages for they became not only
“one flesh” but one spirit, seeing eye to eye in all
the important things of life. She was emphatic-
ally a “help meet for him” to whom the Lord had
given her.
	The young couple moved their home in the
eastern part of the ward so that when the divi-
sion was made they were found to be in the 21st
ward where she preserved the even tenor of her
life until Saturday, Sep. 12th, when she died sud-
denly after only a few hours illness.
	She was remarkable for the gravity and nobil-
ty of her character; life with her was “real,” it
was earnest, it was a means to the end which she
never lost sight of, hence she improved the time
to the benefit, as far as possible, of her fellow
beings even at a personal sacrifice. The writer
recalls having seen her more than once, a young
mother with a babe on her lap leading the sing-
ing for the Young Ladies Association and taking
the minutes, for she was their secretary, and so
efficiently did she discharge her duty that the
Association thought they could not possibly de-
spense with her services; but as her family in-
creased in number she retired into the home cir-
cle and devoted herself exclusively to that great-
est and most sacred of all woman’s duties, the
raising of her children; still for some time she
continued a member of the ward choir.
	She was the mother of ten children, five boys
and five girls, seven of whom survive her. Her
eldest son Joseph is appointed to go on a mission-
shortly, and her last earthly duty was the prepar-

[Column 2]
ation for his departure. We earnestly pray that
the memory of her will ever remain green in his
heart, a talisman against all temptation. We also
pray the Healer of all wounded hearts will make
the husband, children and relatives His especial
care.
								CON.
DIeD—In Salt Lake City, September 4th, 1896,
at 6 a. m , after a severe and lingering illness,
Alice Daniels Weinel. Alice Daniels was born
January 16th, 1823, at Manchester Eng. She was
the daughter of Ephriam Daniels and Elizabeth
Salthouse. Having been baptized into the
Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints early
in the year 1841, in the same year she emigrated
to America. Landing in New Orleans she pro-
ceeded directly to Nauvoo, at that time the
gathering place of the followers of the Prophet
Joseph Smith.
	One can well imagine that faith and fortitude
were required to enable a young girl unacquaint-
ed with the ways of the world, having scarcely
been outside her native town, to leave home and
friends and travel on sea and land to cast her lot
with a despised and persecuted people; but she
had received a testimony of the truth of the Gos-
pel she had embraced, and went forth undaunted
and fearless.
	After remaining at Nauvoo for a season she
went to Quincy where she obtained employment
at her trade as a milliner. Here she became ac-
quainted with her husband, the late John Weinel,
to whom she was married in the year 1842.
	After the death of the Prophet they removed to
Mt. Pisgah, Iowa, and in the year 1849 followed
the Pioneers to Salt Lake Valley and soon after
located in the 14th Ward Salt Lake City, where
they have since resided.
	In the year 1860 the writer of this brief
sketch first became acquainted with Sister
Weinel, and from that time till her death was an
intimate friend. Many pleasant and profitable
hours have been spent in her company, listening
to her reminiscences of the Prophet Joseph, and
of the suffering and experiences of the Saints,
their exodus from Nauvoo and their early trials
and privations in this new and forbidding
country. Through all these trying times she was
staunch to her religion for she knew it was of
God, lived its principles and endeavored to ex-
emplify them in her daily life.
	Sister Weinel was a woman of great strength of
character intellectual and refined. She never
had the honor to be a mother and for many years
this was a very severe trial to her. Brother and
Sister Weinel entered into the order of plural
marriage in the early days in the valley, and for
all the sacrifices she had made in accepting this
principle, she was amply rewarded by the devoted
attention and nursing bestowed by the sister
wife during her long sickness which covered a
period of nearly five years.
	Thus one by one those who personally knew
the Prophet Joseph are passing to the other side,
but they leave with us their earnest testimony
that he was a man of God, and their faith in the
ultimate triumph of the glorious work he was
sent to establish. May her friends who remain
be as staunch and true as was our departed sister,
that they may be privileged to renew their friend-
ship with her and all loved ones gone before.
								E. S. T.


RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE.

	THE regular quarterly Conference of the
Salt Lake Stake Relief Society convened
in the Assembly Hall, September 19, 1896,
President M. I. Horne presiding. Meeting
opened by singing "We thank Thee O,
God for a prophet;" prayer by Julia Howe;
continued by singing "Glorious things of
Thee are spoken." Roll called, minutes of
morning session of the previous conference
read and approved. Statistical and finan-
cial reports read, 26 wards having reported
and 24 not reported. The names of those
wards failing to report were read. 
	President Horne said the failure
of these wards to send in their reports makes one
sorry and angry, for the Salt Lake Stake is
looked upon as a pattern. "It is due to
me and all those that labor with me, to be
able to give a full representation of our
labors at the Stake Conference. I hope


this will be remembered the next, time re-
ports are due. We should now be think-
ing of the poor during the coming winter.
We have been taught what is required of
us, shall we not now be faithful? I hope I
shall not have to complain again about the
reports, I want all those who have not
sent them in, to send them in at once, so
that our report will be better for the Gener-
al Conference.” Prayed the spirit of the
Lord to rest upon the sisters, that they
might have wisdom to guide them in the
performance of all their duties.
The 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12, 13,
14, 15, 17, 18, and 19 wards gave verbal
reports of a very encouraging nature.
	Conference adjourned until 2 o’clock p.
m. by singing “Our God we raise to
Thee.” Benediction by Bishop Allen.
AFTERNOON SESSION.
	Meeting commenced by singing “ Where
the voice of friendship’s heard;” prayer
by Sister Webb; continued by singing
“Do what is right.” Minutes of previous
afternoon session read and approved.
	Counselor B. W. Smith was pleased to
be at this conference. “We should observe
every law that will bring us back into the
presence of our Father. Greet each other
kindly, leave our sorrows behind and en-
courage each other to perform every duty
which comes before us in life as true
women.
	Rachel Grant said “I meditate great a deal
as I cannot hear. We have trials that we
may be benefited. President Young once
said if we never have another, we have had
enough to take us straight into the Celes-
tial kingdom, we should prepare ourselves
for the great things which await the faith-
ful.”
	Counselor Jane S. Richards said through
the blessing of the Lord  we are here today.
This Society was organized by inspiration.
There is much for us to learn, we all want
to do that which we came here to do from
our patriarchal blessings we learn that our
work was planned before we came here, in
these meetings we receive the spiritual food
we need, and receive strength from our
Father. We have been told the day would
come when we would try each other more
than we had ever been tried—therefore “do
good to each other and be comforted.”
	Counselor Annie Hyde made some inter-
esting remarks.
	President Zina D. H. Young said our
Prophet organized this Society according
to the Holy Priesthood, and it is worth our
while to come together to testify of these
things. “ How I wish these benches were
full! I feel that the daughters of Zion are
holy in the sight of the Lord, and pray that
He will bless you all.”
	Counselor Clara C. Cannon bore her
testimony as did a number of sisters.
	Reports were received from the 21st,
22nd, 23rd, wards, Center ward and Can-
non ward.
	Sister Emily S. Richards made a few re-
marks. President Horne again reminded the
sisters to bring their reports, and felt to
bless all who were present. Meeting closed
by singing “ ’Mid scenes of confusion.”
Benediction by President Zina D. H.
Young.
		L. D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MRS. CARRIE CHAPMAN-CATT is in Cali-
fornia, addressing large audiences.


WEDDING ANNIVERSARY.

Dear Sister:
	FRIDAY the 11th inst. being the sixtieth
wedding anniversary of Patriarch D. Tyler
and wife, members of the High Priest’s
Quorum of which Brother Tyler is presi-
dent, and their wives, also members of the
Relief Society of which Sister Tyler is pres-
dent, and their husbands with members of
the family and other invited guests, met in
the Assembly Hall at 10 o’clock p. m. to
celebrate the occasion.
	The hall was tastefully and artistically
decorated and draped with flags, bunting,
evergreens and flowers. The afternoon exer-
cises consisted of speeches, recitations, instru-
metal and vocal music, an essay, verses com-
posed for the occasion and reminiscences by
the worthy couple, after which an excellent
repast in picnic form was partaken of.
After all had feasted to their hearts content
(and their appetites also) order being re-
stored, toasts and sentiments were indulged
in for a short time.
	I will also remark that Stake President
Sister Lucinda Houd, who has been confin-
ed to her room for some time and to her
bed for some time from a stroke, was
brought in a buggy and assisted to an easy
chair on the stand where she was heartily
welcomed by those present.
	The afternoon’s proceedings being con-
cluded all returned to their homes, being
however, invited to return in the evening
and participate in the dance a few hours,
which they did, all seeming to enjoy them-
selves to the utmost. The aged couple
were each presented with an easy chair
besides other presents.
		Very Respectfully
			ALICE M. T. TANNER.
BEAVER, UTAH, Sep. 14, 1896.


FOREST DALE RELIEF SOCIETY.

	ON the 22nd of September 1896, at 4
o’clock p. m., a meeting was held in the
Forest Dale meeting house in Salt Lake
Stake for the purpose of organizing a
Relief Society. 
	Bishop James Jensen and Counselor
Royal B. Young were present. Sister M. Isa-
bella Horne, President of the Relief Society
of Salt Lake Stake was the first speaker.
She referred to the time when the Society
was first organized in Nauvoo by the
Prophet Joseph Smith, which was very
interesting and instructive. The following
officers were chosen and set apart: Cor-
nelia P. Driggs, President, Louisa Steven-
son and Addie Morris Cannon, Counselors,
Sarah Strock, Secretary, Agnes Rumel,
Ass’t. Secretary and Telitha Hendry
Treasurer.
	There were twenty-one members whose
names were enrolled.


DR. GRACE KIMBALL in an interview in
the London Daily Chronicle, describes the
recent disturbance in Constantinople, of
which she was an eye-witness. Dr. Kim-
ball was standing on the steps of the Otto-
man Bank on the day it was seized, a short
time before the attack took place.
	MRS. S. V. ROOT, of St. Paul, Minn.,
has been appointed by Mayor Moran as a
special police officer, possessing full power


to make arrests. Mrs. Root will not patrol
a beat, yet she will wear a star. She desir-
ed the appointment to aid her work in con-
nection with the rescue home, an institution
for the reformation of fallen women, with
which she has long been connected.


BOSTON NOT HIS CENTER.

	A PARTY of summer tourists in the
White Mountains of New Hampshire in
their rambles one day came across an old
hermit. He gave the party information
concerning the mountains, then asked them
where they had come from.
	“We are from Boston," said one of the
party.
	“Boston,” said the old man; “I never
heard o’ that place. How fur is it to
Boston?”
	“Abont two hundred miles,” was the
reply.
	“Good Lord!” exclaimed the old hermit,
“How can ye bear to live so fur off?"


CLARA BARTON is at home, having been
a passenger on the Umbria, which arrived
on the 12th of Sep. Miss Barton will re-
turn to Armenia should the situation call
for the services of the Red Cross Society.


DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
Instructor in the School of OB-
stetrics and Nursing.
	The winter session opens Oct. 12, 1896, with
greatly improved facilities for education in this
important branch of study. Reduced prices to
societies. For further information communicate
with Ellis R Shipp M. D., 75 Center St. Salt
Lake City. Telephone 555.

PRIMARY ASSOCIATION.

	THE semi-annual meeting of Stake
officers of the Primary Association will be
held Monday, Oct. 5, at 4 p. m., at 155
North Main Street.
			L.B. FELT, Pres’t.
			MARY ANDERSON, Sec.

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT will commence
the winter class in midwifery October 7, 1896.
Several situations in small families for board.
Special terms to students sent by the Relief
Society. For further particulars please com-
municate with			DR. PRATT,
			226 Constitution Bldg., Main Street,
				Salt Lake City, Utah.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House.
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.	
—
