VOL. 25.		SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 15, 1896.	No. 11.


CONTENTS:

	Utah Woman’s Press Club—E. R. Shipp, Sec
National Council Of Women Of The United
States. Leaves From My Journal—Kim. Relief
Society General Conference—E. B. Wells, Sec.
Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meeting—Zina Hyde, Sec.
In Memoriam. Woman’s Co-op Store—D. Wel-
come Idaho! Ceramics—S. L. M.
	EDITORIAL—Editorial Notes.  A Tender
Tribute. A Kensington Tea.
	POETRY:—Thanksgiving—L. M. Hewlings. 
Moonlight On The Pier—Hyacinth That Little
Brook—E. B. W. Thanksgiving thoughts—Ellis
R. Shipp.


For the Exponent.
THANKSGIVING.
As a flower from the soil looks up
	To greet the gladsome light,
That fills with fragrance its gay cup.
	And makes its petals bright;
So may our hearts look up to Thee,
	Oh God, our Sun, our Spring!
And every grateful faculty
	To Thee its glad song sing!
For tables bountifully spread, 
	For homes and hearts that love,
For every good that crowns our head, 
	For hopes that live above.
For all the streams of good that flow
	Down from Thy distant rills,
We thank Thee God, they come we know, 
	From Thine eternal hills.
We thank Thee for the friends still ours,
	We thank Thee none the less
For those we’ve had although their powers 
	Our lives no longer bless.
For like a meteor in the sky,
	Though they have gone from sight,
Their passing trail still greets the eye,
	And makes our night-sky bright.
Teach us to hear the songs of life;
	Teach us to see its beauty;
Oh strengthen us in every strife,
	Gird us for every duty.
And since whate’er we have was given,
	And still by right is Thine,
Teach us that earth is likest heaven
	Through charity divine.
					L. M. HEWLINGS.
S. L. C.


MOONLIGHT ON THE PIER.

’TWAS an autumn night,
	  Full of mellow light,
		Long, long ago—
When the whisp'ring breeze,
	From the distant leas,
 		Blew soft and low— 
Till its soothing breath, 
	Stole with unseen stealth,
That with mystic art,
	Calmed my troubled heart,
		Long, long ago.


Where the wooden pier,
	Stands with unfelt fear,
		All, all alone—
While the turbid waves,
	Round it fondly laves, 
		With quiet tone.
And the ripples round, 
	Dance with merry bound, 
Making music rare, 
	Fill the balmy air, 
		All, all alone.
Gleams the moonbeams’ light, 
	O’er the mountains’ hight, 
		Far, far away—
Soon its shining ray,
	Meets the waters’ spray, 
		Cold, cold and gray.
Now they wanton rest,
	On the wavelets crest, 
Till their mingled tone,
	Sends an echoed moan,
		Far, far away.
Far from friendly land, 
	We in silence stand,
		On, on the pier--
With its feeble hold,
	Sunk ’neath waters cold,
		As in a bier. 
Round us moonbeams fall,
	Like a silver pall,
Veiling unknown thought
	From each howe'er sought,
		On, on the pier. 
				HYACINTH.


[Column 1]
UTAH WOMAN’S PRESS CLUB

REVIEW OF THE YEAR ENDING OCT. 31, 1896.
	THE past year has been one of unflagging
interest and most gratifying progress.
	We have held our meetings on the last
day of every month, with occasional bi-
monthly meetings for the transaction of
business. We do not limit our member-
ship and our members have increased
steadily, and we find by consulting our
roll many brilliant women added to our
number.
	Our object is to encourage young writers,
our president being an adept in bringing
out latent talent; and we find that every
well-directed effort brings its own reward.
	Our work has been nearly all original.
Biographical sketches, original sentiments
and poems, and impromptu speeches. We
have been addressed by many renowned
speakers both of national reputation and
local fame; among the former are the
Misses Chase of Boston; Dr. Sarah J.
Elliott, a friend and champion of Clara Bar-
ton; Laura M. Johns, the W. S A. organ-
izer and speaker; and the beautiful and
talented Elizabeth Upham Yates; and to
others though perhaps not so world famous
but to us none the less dear, have we listen-
ed, Pres. Zina D. H. Young, our Pres. E.
B. Wells, Emma J. McVicker, one of the
Board of Regents of the University of
Utah; Mrs. Emily S. Richards, member
of the Board of the Agricultural College of
Logan; Dr. E. B. Fergusen, a noted

[Column 2]
lecturer and public speaker; Isabel Cameron
Brown, wife of U. S. Senator Arthur
Brown; Mrs. Martha B. Jennings, Presi-
dent of the Utah Federation of Woman’s
Clubs, and many others.
	Our subjects for discussion have been,
historical, scientific, poetical and political;
we have debated the double money stand-
ard, single tax question and Parliamentary
Law. 
	We elect officers once a year. No officer
is permitted, according to our Constitution,
to hold an office more than two years; so
a greater number has the opportunity for
the experience. It has been our good
pleasure to entertain a number of notable
personages, and we have likewise been the
recipient of most pleasant entertainment by
the Ladies Literary Club, and several of
our own members.
	We encourage sociability, feeling that it
fosters love and unity which in turn is the
true secret of strength. We as an organ-
ization have great respect for the general
press; we consider it the friend of practice
and reason, the best exponent of virtue,
and a potent subduer of vice. Think of the
condition of the world before printing was
invented. One writer has said:  “From
that hour the brain and not the arm, the
thinker and not the soldier, books and not
kings were to rule the world; weapons
forged in the mind keen-edged and brighter
than the sunbeam were to supplant the
sword and the battle ax.”
                           E. R. SHIPP, Secretary.


NATIONAL COUNCIL OF WOMEN
OF THE UNITED STATES.

THE COMING MEETING IN BOSTON.
	THE Annual Executive Meeting of the
National Council of Women will be held
this year in Boston the 2, 3, and 4 of Dec.,
in the hall of the Y. M. C. A.
	The meetings of the National Council, as
such, occur triennially in Washington.
The last in 1895, covered a period of two
weeks including three sessions a day. At
these triennials each national society com-
posing the Council finds opportunity to
present its work before representatives of
all the other societies, thus coming in touch
with much larger audiences than it could
otherwise reach. The wide range of topics
and the ability with which they are pre-
sented give a significance and value to these
conferences which should be very helpful in
practical lines of work.
	The Executive Board is composed of the
President and one representative from each
organization in the Council. The annual
meeting of such a Board means more than
simply the transaction of its own business.
This coming session in Boston, while pri-
marily the annual meeting of the Board,
will include three public gatherings of
great interest. At these meetings promi-
nent women from all over the country will
be present, and the occasion will be a
notable one.
	Of the three meetings of the Council this


[Column 
year one will be given to the consideration 
of the work of the organizations composing
the Council; another will be devoted to the
work of the standing Committees. Repre-
sentative workers from all o ganizations
will thus be heard from in regard to the
lines of work unitedly attempted by the
Council. The third or final session will be
given to the consideration of the general
subjects which are under the charge of
heads of departments. Among these sub-
jects will be Religion, Philanthropy, Educa-
tion, Moral Reform, Social Economics and
others
	All members of organizations whether
associated with the Council or not, and all
other persons interested are cordially invited
to be present.
SOME OP THE PEOPLE TO BE PRESENT.
	The Countess of Aberdeen cannot return
from British Columbia in time for the forth-
coming Annual Executive Meeting of the
National Council of Women which will be
held in the Y. M. C. A. hall, Boston, Dec.
2, 3, 4. But the International Council will
be ably represented by Mrs. May Wright
Sewall, First Vice-President at large and
former President of the National Council of
the United States. The Woman's Council
of Canada will be represented by its Corres-
ponding Secretary, Mrs. Willoughby
Cummings, and also by Mrs. Archibald,
President of the Halifax Local Council.
	Miss Frances E. Willard, the first Presi-
dent of the National Council is expected to 
add the exceeding interest of her presence
and her words to this occasion.
	Among other well known women whose
faces and voices will be welcomed, will be
the Rev. Anna Howard Shaw, the Vice-
President of the Council, and so widely
known as an able and scholarly orator.
	Mrs. Rachel Foster Avery, former
Corresponding Secretary of the Council,
whose name is a synonym for honest, solid,
practical work, will represent her own
special department in the present Council,
that which relates directly to the welfare of
the Home.
	Mrs. J. Ellen Foster is also expected to
be present at these sessions, and her speak-
ing everywhere is characterized by earnest-
ness that captures the attention and by
logic that convinces the mind.
	The National Woman's Republican
Association of which Mrs. Foster is
President, will also be represented by its
able and charming Secretary, Mrs. Emily
Chace.
	The Woman's Relief Corps will be repre-
sented by its National President, Mrs.
Agnes Hitt, and by Miss Kate Brownlee
Sherwood, Chairman of the Committee on
Patriotic Instruction, who will speak on the
subject of Higher Citizenship.
	Many other women of prominence will
attend these meetings and present topics of
interest and value.
PAST MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
	The National Council of Women will
hold its annual Executive Board meeting
the 2, 3, and 4, of December in the Y. M.
C. A. Hall in Boston.
	Meetings of the National Council always
mean something of more than ordinary
interest. The coming annual session will
include one or more noteworthy meetings.
	Among previous meetings and con-
ferences under the auspices of the Council,
one naturally adverts to the World's Con-

[Column 2]
gress of Representative Women in Chicago
at the time of the Columbian Exposition.
This gathering of prominent women from 
many different countries served as a grand
introduction to the series of World's Con-
gresses. Its sessions lasted seven days and
its program contained the names of more
than three hundred speakers the majority of
whom were women of national reputation
in their special fields of work. This assem-
blage of women including members from
the National Council of England, France,
Germany, Italy and other countries, was
brought together by invitation of the
National Council of the United States.
	At the first triennial meeting of the
Council in Washington in 1891, seven
organizations composed it. The session at
this time was of a week's duration, thirty-
eight associations reported through frater-
nal delegates, and the International Coun-
cil was represented by its American officers.
	During the exposition in Atlanta in 1895,
the Council held a conference which lasted
six days as part of the Congress of Women.
	Among the subjects brought before these
meetings were the Red Cross movement,
practical philanthropy, Florence Crittenden
mission, the education of the future, wo-
man's position in the industrial world, wo-
man's work as minister and missionary,
woman's place in the government, social
economics and many others of equal interest
and importance.
	The notable meeting in New York City
of a year ago—the Pioneer Reunion held on
the date of Elizabeth Cady Stanton's eigh-
tieth birthday—was likewise under the
auspices of the National Council. This
unique gathering brought together for the
recognition of the younger generation the
large number of the white-haired pioneers
in women's work along the lines; education-
al, philanthropic, reformatory, and many
others. The largest opera house in New
York was filled with the guests. Greetings
came from distinguished people all over the
world. A volume including the account
and full significance of the gathering would
prove most interesting reading to a new
generation.
THE COUNCIL IDEA. WHAT IS IT?
	What does the National Council of Wo-
men mean? What does it stand for? What
is its underlying idea?
	This idea is first, that a Council is not
composed of individuals, but of societies;
second, that a Council does not seek to com-
bine people of one mind, but it seeks to
unite societies with different aims, objects
and methods. Thus the National Council
is approximately, and will become more and
more a republic of ideas.
	The Council grew out of a birthday cele-
bration. This was the fortieth anniversary
of “the first organized demand for equal
educational, professional and political rights
for women.” The central idea was that of
freedom for the body, mind and soul of wo-
men. Included within this were all the
other ideas represented by the fifty-one
national societies which this first gathering
brought together.
	The Council idea is to bring together all
 the best thought and hope for the world.
For its education, its philanthropy, its tem-
perance, its industries, its professions, its
legal conditions, its political conditions, its
moral education. Finally, the Council
would organize and unify all these as the
truest method for strengthening and de-
veloping each one.

[Column 3]
	The Council idea is to give “greater
unity of thought and sympathy of purpose”
to woman's work, and has been characterized
as the “climax in the organization of the mor-
al forces of society by women.” Again it
stands for the broadest mutual respect and 
sympathy, and for the peace which “makes
for righteouness.”
	The Council was organized by women
having the sincere belief that the best good
of their homes and of the nation would be
advanced by their own greater unity of
thought, sympathy and purpose, and that
an organized movement of women would
best conserve the highest good of the fam-
ily and state.
ADVANTAGES TO ORGANIZATIONS.
	The organizations which have banded
themselves together to form the National
Council of Women recognize that by means
of the Council Conference they secure for
their special lines of work, a larger hearing
than they can ever command for their
separate meetings.
	Certain special lines of work have been
prosecuted through standing Committees of
the Council, such as—equal pay for equal
work; divorce reform; improved dress;
patriotic instruction; and these can
be infinitely better furthered by such an
aggregation of organizations than by separ-
ate associations of women, each organized
for a special object.
	The existence of a National Council of
Women in any country must also by its
successful prosecution of various lines of
work militate against the multiplication of
the organizations which would otherwise
spring up to cope with these problems.
	No one doubts that the individual wo-
man is broadened and her life enriched by
becoming a member of an organization for
personal culture or altruistic effort. It is
equally true that members of each organiza-
tion of the National Council “find inspira-
tion, breadth and release from limitation,”
through the respect they learn to feel for
the work of women from whose opinions
they may differ radically, yet for the
nobility of whose efforts for the uplifting
of humanity they feel a deep sympathy.
	The advantage that the Council gives
its constituents are seen by a glance at the
following summary of its object.
	To make better known to the general
public the magnitude and variety of wo-
man's work for humanity.
	To avoid the multiplication of organiza-
tions each with some one special object.
	To bring together women of all lines of
work.
	To give the united influence of all these
women to such general kinds of work as
can be heartily agreed upon by all.
	The present occasion though only one of
the regular annual meetings of the Execu-
tive Board, will be attended by many not-
able women from all over the country, and
its public meetings will be of great interest.
	Public meetings will be held Thursday
and Friday mornings, December the 3rd
and 4th, and Friday evening December 4th.
One and one third rates will be given on all
railroads, if the attendance numbers one
hundred. Procure certificates at place
where ticket is bought. Hotels will give
reduced rates.
	MISS ELIZABETH UPHAM YATES, of
Maine, will give her lecture on “China
and the Chinese,” with costume in Town
Hall, Belmont, Mass.


WOMANS EXPONENT


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


THAT LITTLE BROOK.

THAT little brook beside my childhood's home,
Rippling and warbling as it danced along,
What ferns and mosses grew around its brink;
The picture haunts me whereso'er I roam,
Methinks I listen to its sweet, old song,
And once again its cooling waters drink.

The winding brook flow'd through a hemlock
grove,
As fair as "Eden's bowers," to me it seem'd,
Sweet wild-wood flowers in every shady nook;
Grew 'neath those trees; there I was wont to rove,
Or on the moss-grown rocks idly I dream'd,
And listen'd to the babbling of the brook.

The birds sang sweeter in those happy days,
Their music thrilled my soul with melody,
As pensively I wander'd by the brook,
Amid the graces of those woodland ways,
And ponder'd o'er my future destiny,
Till life itself seemed one delightful book.
E. B. W.


THANKSGIVING THOUGHTS.

How helpless and weak man comes to this world,
As frail as the wing of a bird yet unfurled !
Dependent on Him who measures our souls.
And-all of our life and being controls.
He gives us our mind and power of thought—
Opens the vaults where its treasures are sought.
He touches the spring its wealth comes to view,
Enlightening those who this pathway pursue
E’er seeking, for truth and infinite light—
His presence divine—to lead us aright.
Why should humanity puny and weak,
Try to aggrandize self, and vain honors seek?
The pomp of this world, its glory and pride,
Elude our firm grasp, and flit from our side.
But Truth will endure while time takes its flight
It lives still undimmed by tarnish or blight.
Truth the holiest boon our Father hath given—
Lifting the veil between earth and Heaven.
This beautiful world, has music and flowers,
Far-reaching landscapes, and bright sunny hours
Seasons of snow—bringing wealth to our soil-
Increasing our stores, and decreasing our toil.
Our warm cosy homes, our friends,good and true,
Are earth’s dearest treasures for me and for you
Then holy thanksgiving and praise let us give,
To Him, whose great mercy, permits us to live.
					ELLIS R. SHIPP.
Nov. 26, 1896.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

			FLORENCE Italy,
					Dec. 5, l895.
	Breakfast at eight, as we wish to see as
much of this delightful Tuscan City as pos-
sible, we take early drives in the immediate
vicinity, they are of extreme beauty and we
cannot spare the time when the Galleries
are to be visited. We drive over the Viale
dei Colli, the hilly road leading to the height
of San Miniato from Piazzale Michael
Angelo, where stands his famous statue of
David, we had glorious views of the city
and the valley of the Arno, our manager
pointing out all places of interest and giv-
ing us bits of history. We took a different
route back and paused near the Church San
Miniato, Mr. Mc V. pointed out the Church
S. Niccolo before which the citizens assem-
bled in 1529 to swear to defend Florence.
It was in the belfry of this church that
Michael Angelo concealed himself after the
city, was betrayed to the imperialists, till
Clement VII. had promised to pardon him
the fortification he had constructed. We
drove past a villa of the Medici, now a

[Column 2]
girls' school and the Tarre del Gallo, used
by Galileo as an observatory, and the Villa
where he lived and was visited by Milton
in 1638. We did not go on to La Certosa,
a large Carthusian Monastery built in the
14th century; the prospect is beautiful of
the Vol d’ Emo, they have some fine monu-
ments by Donatello in a chapel dedicated
to the Acciajuolo family. The Monks
make Chartreuse wine; we drank of it.
Hare says Certosa of the Val d’ Emo has a
beautiful position with lovely views and the
convent crowning a cypress-covered hill is
very picturesque. The Certosa was found-
ed in 1341 by Nicolo Acciajuoli, Grand
Seneschal to Queen Joanna of Naples, and
its fortifications were especially granted by
the Republic. The principal church is
decorated with frescoes, marbles and pietra-
dura. There is a beautiful Gothic Church
of 1300; the architecture is attributed to
Orcagna; it contains good Florentine stain-
ed glass; a picture of St. Francis receiv-
ing the Stigmata, by Cigoli; a crucifixion
by Giotto, and a picture by Fra. Angelico.
In another chapel is a Madonna and Child
with Saints, by Perugino, of which I have
a photograph.
	We drove through the via Maggio,
saw the tablet on the wall of Caso Guidi
inscribed to the memory of the English
poetess who lived there so many years and
died there in 1861, Elizabeth Barrett
Browning. On the right of this turning to-
wards the river, at the corner of the via
Marsigli, is the house where. Bernardo
Buoutalenti lived and whither Tasso rode
from Ferrara, to thank him for having con-
tributed to the success of his “Aminta,”
by the scenery he had painted for it. Mr.
Mc V. gave us the story; although we had
read of it, it seemed new and interesting.
	We now drove to the Church Santa
Croce, the Westminister Abbey of Italy
here are buried Galileo and Michael Angelo.
In 1514 Santa Croce became celebrated for
a religious revival under Fra Francisco de
Montepulciano. Over the interior of the
West door is a statue of St. Louis of Tou-
louse by Donatello, not a good work but
the Sculptor said it was good enough for
a man who had been so foolish as to ex-
change a Kingdom for a Monastery. The
rose window is from a design of Lorengo
Ghiberti; below it is a tablet with the
monogram of our Savior.
	The Church is almost surrounded with
monuments of the great men of Italy. Rus-
kin says of some of them, “See those huge
tombs on your right hand and left with
their alternate gable and round tops, and
the paltriest of all possible sculpture, trying
to be grand by bigness, and pathetic by ex-
pense.”
	These immense churches are full of
chapels the Cappella Medici contains the
best church art. There is a magnificent
altar piece by Giotto, “The Coronation of
the Virgin, and in the choir the walls have
frescoes by Agnolo Gaddi; on the left “The
History of the True Cross.” Outside the
church on the South is an arcade ornament-
ed in frescoes by pupils of Taddeo Gaddi it
looks down upon a cloister which ends in
the Chapel of the Pazzi, one of the best
works of Brunelleschi. The dome outside
and the friezes within are ornamented, with
Della Robbia work. In the cupola are the
Twelve Apostles and the Four Evangelists.
The Chapel was used as a chapter-house
and in it four thousand Monks listened to
the regulations issued by Pius V. for the
establishment of the inquisition in Florence.

[Column 3]
	Next to the Church St. Lorenzo ‘which
contains the magnificent Mosaleum of the
Medici’s. The church was due to the mu-
nificence of the Christian Matron Guiliana,
who vowed if she should give birth to a
son to erect a church in honor of Saint
Lorenzo. “Lergusson” says “No church
can be freer from bad taste than this one;
there is no false construction nor anything
to offend. Where it fails is in the want of
sufficient solidity and mass in the supporting
pillars and the pier-arches with reference to
the load they have to bear.” The same
thought was in my mind ere Mr. Mc V.
told us of Lergusson. In front of the high
altar a porphyry slab covers the remains of
Cosimo Medici, in the “New Sacristy,”
are the tombs of the Medici adorned with
M. Angelo’s “Day and Night,” “Morning
and Evening.” Ruskin says “Four in-
effable types not of darkness nor of day—not
of morning nor evening; but of the depart-
ure and the resurrection; the twilight and
the dawn of the souls of men.”
	Strozzi wrote of the figure of night:
	“Carved by an angel in this marble white,
	Sweetly reposing, lo, the Goddess Night.
	Calmly she sleeps, and so must living be;
	Awake her gently; she will speak to thee.”
To which Michael Angelo replied:
“Grateful is sleep, whilst wrong and shame sur-
	vive, 
More grateful still is senseless stone to live,
Gladly both sight and hearing I forgo;
Oh, then, awake me not. Hush, whisper low!”
				[Translated by Wright]
	I at first glance thought them ugly; as I
recall them now, think them beautiful;
his works grow upon you; his genius
has never been contested; all place him in
the first rank as painter, sculptor and archi-
tect. ’Tis said beauties and excellences of
all kinds are to be found in his works; he
sought to obtain the sublime in Art.
							KIM.


CHEYENNE, Wyo. Nov. 6.- For the first
time in history a woman will vote as a
member of the electoral college for a Presi-
dent of the United States. This woman is
Mrs. Sarah Malloy of this city. She was
requested to run on the Republican ticket
and accepted. The honor was thrust upon
her. Mrs. Malloy is a native of Ohio. She
was born in College Centre, near Columbus.
Her father was a soldier in the civil war,
and was retired because of incapacity due to
wounds received on the field of battle.
Mrs. Malloy has lived in Wyoming since
1870. She is in full sympathy with the
woman suffrage, which has been in vogue
in Wyoming ever since she settled in it.
She has served as a delegate to Republican
county conventions, and has always done
her duty. She never misses voting on
election day. While Mrs. Malloy takes
extreme interest in politics, she is a good
housewife and a kind mother. She has four
children, the eldest a civil engineer 18 years
old. Mr. Malloy is superintendent of the
Union Pacific Railroad from Cheyenne to
Ogden, a stretch of 500 miles. Many of his
Democratic friends in the service of the
road voted for the wife of their superior
officer. Mrs. Malloy is being congratulat-
ed for the unique distinction thrust upon
her. She will cast her electoral vote for
Major McKinley.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.

WOMAN’S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN’S EXPONENT,
						SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.

	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
 econd-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY, DECEMBER 1, 1896.


EDITORIAL NOTES

	THE sisters will we trust read the arti-
cles containing information of the National
Council of Women, as it is the organiza-
tion to which the Relief Society and Y. L.
M. A. are connected, and in which Zina D.
H. Young and Elmina S. Taylor are Vice-
Presidents by virtue of their office as Presi-
dents of these two great Associations, and
they are consulted in all matters pertain-
ing to the National Society as a whole. It
is well for all our Relief Society and also
the Young Ladies’ to make themselves
familiar with the workings of the Council
as it is a powerful organized body of wo-
men of great attainments and influence, and
cannot fail to accomplish much in the ad-
vancement of the world and the better-
ment of society.
	TWO celebrated women visited Utah dur-
ing the election time with a view of writ-
ing up the woman’s side of the election.
Mrs. Black well known as (Annie Laurie)
in San Francisco and New York papers;
and Virginia V. Douge, who was sent here
by the National Republican Committee.
We hope we shall see the published account
given by them of the recent election, as we
think we know something of the subject
from the inside view. Both these ladies
are accomplished and talented women, and
will doubtless handle the subject in a mas-
terly way. Miss Douge has lived much in
Spanish American countries, and has writ-
ten considerably upon subjects relating to
these countries, has also published some
books; does artistic work of various kinds;
is somewhat familiar with the silk industry
in Utah, having been connected with the
Committee of Judges at the World’s Fair.
Miss Douge lectured in Logan before the
students of the Agricultural College of
Logan by invitation, during her stay in
Utah of only a few days.
	THE notice of the demise of Sister Rachel
Tanner published was taken from the
Deseret Evening News, and though com-
plete in itself and historical also, yet we
wish to add a word or two in honor of this
veteran saint who has passed away. Our
readers will remember we published the
sixtieth wedding anniversary party held
at her daughter’s, Sister E. S. Richards
in this city last June 30th. Sister Tanner
was looking very frail at that time, yet her
death being so near was not then thought
of. Sister Tanner had at the time of her


demise more than one hundred descendants
and only a few days before she passed away
she remarked that of all the numerous
children and grand-children she had never
had an unkind word. This is a remarka-
ble testimony and shows beyond a doubt in
what high esteem she was held by her
family. This record of itself is an en-
comuim upon her life any mother in Israel
might be proud of, in a day when there is
so much indifference to superiors and lack
of reverence for the aged.


[Column 1]
A TENDER TRIBUTE.

HELEN MAR KIMBALL WHITNEY.
	So—by small slow footsteps,
		By the daily cross,
	By the heart’s unspoken yearnings,
		By its grief and loss;
	So—He brings them home to rest
	With the victors, crowned and blest.
	So—by scattered ruins, 
		By sweet links unbound,
	By fair blossoms all unheeded, 
		Trampled on the ground;
	So—He brings them home to Him,
	Where no cloud their joy can dim.
	Perhaps no woman in Israel now living
knew Sister Helen better than the writer,
her past history, her inner life. I knew her
in her youthful pride and brilliancy when
it was often said of her, “She was the
handsomest girl in Nauvoo.” She was
beautiful with the dignity of a queen. I
saw her in the Temple when she plighted
her marriage vows to Horace K. Whitney
(eldest son of Bishop Newel K. Whitney,)
on that day she seemed to have attained the
realization of her ambitious hopes and
dreams! A few days after we left Nauvoo,
crossed the Misissippi river on the ice and
began that wearisome journey over the un-
broken prairies of Iowa; not a very propi-
tious wedding trip. But I am not going to
give you her history, only a few remarks
on her eventful life. She had been almost
idolized by her father, as nearly so as such
a man as the Apostle Heber C. Kimball
could do consistently. When the pioneers
were called to search out a resting place
for the Saints, Helen’s husband and father
were both among the men chosen.
	Those were the days of sickness, sorrow,
privation, hardship and death, such as tried
men’s souls and women’s likewise. Helen’s
first babe a beautiful little girl was born
and died.
	The pioneers returned in safety and there
was great rejoicing when we heard of the
beautiful vale in the West in the fastnesses
of the Rocky mountains.
	The following spring we started across
the plains, when about half way hither a
fine son was born to Helen, and there was
joy over the advent of this little one even
though the way was toilsome and travel
could not be delayed; five days afterwards
he was laid in a lonely grave by the way-
side. It would be impossible to tell the
grief and anguish of the young mother at
this second bereavement. All that faith and
works combined could do was done by lov-
ing relatives and friends. Reason tottered
and only the almost superhuman faith of
her father prevailed.
“And if sometimes commingled with life’s wine
	We find the wormwood, and rebel and shrink,
Be sure a wiser hand than yours or mine
	Pours out this potion for our lips to drink.”

[Column 2]
And if through patient toil we reach the land
	Where tired feet with sandals loosed may rest 
Where we shall clearly know and understand,
	I think that we shall say, “God knew the
		best.”
	The life of Sister H. M. Whitney
abounds with thriling events, and volumes
might be written of her history, which is in
fact a history of the Church, so closely has
she been connected with its founders and
leading men and women. Intimately
associated with Joseph Smith when a child
and from that time until his martyrdom,
and also with Brigham Young who lived in
Heber C. Kimball’s family after the death
of his first wife in the State of New York,
and journeyed with Heber’s family to Kirt-
land, taking with him his two little mother-
less girls Elizabeth, and Vilate, who were
like sisters to Helen; and Sister Kimball
was indeed like a mother. Looking back
over these events brings to mind many
things of which Helen often talked. The
Gospel was her all, she cared for little else and
being of a particularly spiritual nature she
loved to bear testimony of things she knew
so well.
	After our arrival in the valley early in
Oct. 1848, Horace settled on the lot facing
City Creek where the family lived until
recently. It was there Helen’s children
were born that are living now,and there too
several of them died. One very beautiful
daughter, Vilate, named for Vilate Kimball
others when babes, and one beautiful little
girl the youngest, Phebe. Through all the
trying scenes Helen has been called to pass
she maintained perfect integrity to the truth
of the Gospel and the divine mission of
Joseph Smith; she accepted practically
every principle of the Gospel and was will-
ing to make sacrifices for the establishment
of the same.
	Naturally Helen had literary and refined
tastes but in writing she inclined to the
heroic and prophetic, inheriting from her
illustrious father the gift of prophecy. Her
delicate health was a great hindrance to
her in writing; many times during the
last few years she would have published
her thoughts and views on the burning
questions of the day if she had had the
physical strength; but she has gone now
where she can doubtless give expression to
her feelings without thinking and without
bodily pain. And so one by one the com-
panions of our youth, the friends we have
known in adversity as well as in prosperity
leave us, but by and by we shall all meet
over there if we are so fortunate as to
“Fight the good fight and hold out to. the
end.”
	The early reminiscences that Helen wrote
for the EXPONENT a few years back con-
tained much Church history and were well
worth preserving; her two books “Plural
Marriage as taught by Joseph the Prophet”
and “Why we Practice Plural Marriage,”
are for sale at the office of the Juvenile
Instructor, and are (so far as the writer
knows) the only books of the kind publish-
ed by a Mormon woman. They have gone
to many countries, and these alone should
make Helen Whitney famous.
	As a mother Sister Whitney was exem-
plary, she taught her children faith and the
efficacy of prayer, and she set them a living
example worthy of imitation. As a wife
she was loving, devoted, loyal, true and
constant. Duty was always first whether


[Column 1]
as wife or mother; her devotion to her par-
ents was as exceptional as their love for
her, for certainly with all Helen’s trials and
sacrifices she was greatly blessed in being
favored with the love of parents, husband,
children and friends, and in being shielded
by them from every care and perplexity pos-
sible.
	In friendship no truer woman ever lived
than Helen; she was constancy itself; and
possessed that sweet charity for the weak,
the erring and unfortunate that partakes of
the sublime. All in all she was a grand
and magnificent woman. Of this dear and
departed one the writer can truthfully say,
                     “Thou art the friend
To whom the shadows of long years extend.”
	Helen Mar Kimball was born in Mendon,
Monroe County, New York, August 22,
1828, and was married to Horace K. Whit-
ney in Nauvoo, Illinois, February 3, 1846;
died in Salt Lake City, November 15, 1896,
aged 68 years, 2 months and 26 days. 
	She was the mother of eleven children,
only five of whom survive her, six others
having passed away. What a happy
reunion there must be, and what rejoicing
there when the meeting takes place, far
exceeding in intensity the sorrow of those
left behind.
	Sister Whitney’s funeral services were
held in the 18th Ward chapel where her
son Orson F. Whitney has been Bishop for
a number of years, and where his mother
always attended service when she was able
and has borne many testimonies of the
Gospel. The pure white casket contain-
ing her mortal body was borne by her brothers
and sons in law from the hearse to the chapel;
over the casket was a coverlet of flowers beau-
tiful and pure, emblems of her own sweet
life. Other floral gifts from the children,
relatives and friends were numerous and
very lovely; indeed the fragrance filled the
house.
	The services were conducted by the
Bishop’s Counselor, Robert Patrick, and the
speakers were, after Patriarch Jos. C.
Kingsbury an old and esteemed friend of
the family, Apostles H. J. Grant and John
Henry Smith, President Angus M. Cannon
and President Jos. F. Smith, each one
testifying of her virtue, her integrity and
her fidelity to the Gospel. The music was
furnished by H. G. Whitney and the
Eighteenth ward choir and was very sweet.
Opened with singing “I need Thee every
hour;” prayer by Elder John Nicholson;
singing “Unveil thy bosom faithful
tomb;” at an interval during the services
Miss Bessie Edmonds sang exquisitely the
beautiful solo “The Bright Beyond,” by
special request of the deceased. The entire
service was a remarkably impressive one,
many divine truths concerning life and the
resurrection were dwelt upon and clearly
substantiated by the written words as con-
tained in the Bible and the Book of Mor-
mon. The spirit of the Lord in rich
abundance seemed to rest upon all who
addressed the congregation. Closing prayer
was by Elder C. W. Penrose. Sister Whit-
ney was buried beside her husband, near
other members of the family.
	The music at the grave was particularly
sweet “Rest on the hillside rest,” sung by
a quartette by special request; and so
Helen has gone to rest, that rest on the
other shore for which she longed when
racked with intense pain from which she felt
no earthly power could give relief.
	The grave was dedicated by Counselor

[Column 2]
Wm. Barton of the 18th ward Bishopric,
and when all was finished the coverlet of
sweet flowers was thrown over the mound,
and tearfully the long procession of mourn-
ers turned homewards. May the Lord
comfort them all and especially the child-
ren and grandchildren, and give them
peace, strength and courage to abide in the
faith, and fight the good fight as valiantly
as their sainted mother has done. 
	“So He giveth His beloved sleep.”
—Psalm CXXVII. v. 2.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A KENSINGTON TEA.

	MRS. JAMES SHARP gave a delightful
Kensington party on Friday, November 20,
at the handsome family residence on South
Temple. The parlors, library and dining-
room were beautifully decorated with
flowers “in season and out of season;” vio-
lets from the Pacific Coast, carnations, chry-
santhemums of various shades, scarlet geran-
iums, while the faint oder of heliotrope
mingled with the sweet fragrance of the
larger blossoms. The tables were beauti-
ful in snow white damask with fine hand-
painted china, and the repast was dainty
enough for the most fastidious taste, and
was gracefully served by members of the
household which made it all the more
tempting to the guests if that were possible.
The part of the enjoyment most highly in-
teresting was the music given by Miss
Celie Sharp whose exquisite rendering of
difficult music is well-known and on this
occasion was highly appreciated by lovers
of the divine art. Miss Sharp gave im-
promptu Chopin 2nd and 12th Rhapsodies,
Lizt, Tannhauser and others. Conversa-
tion was general and of course interesting
when thirty women or more assembled
principally to enjoy a social afternoon. It
was scarcely an old fashioned tea party,
because there were too many modern lux-
uries and more new fashioned costumes.
	The guests present were Mesdames Zina
D. H. Young, Bathsheba W. Smith, Emma
Woodruff, Sarah Jane Cannon, Charlotte
F. Richards, Susan H. Smith, Susanna
Spencer, Sophia Sharp, Mary A. Freeze,
Chloe Eldridge, Martha T. Cannon, Maggie
Sharp, Sarah Dinwoodey, Mary Schettler,
Carlie Y. Cannon, Maria Y. Dougall,
Phebe Y. Beatie, Camilla Cobb, Martha B.
Winder and Mrs. T. G. Webber, Mrs. S.
P. Teasdel, Mrs. Willard Young, Mrs.
Lafayette Holbrook, Mrs. John Sharp, Mrs.
H. M. Wells, Mrs. Legrande Young, Mrs.
O.W. Beebee, Mrs. James Saville, Mrs.
Ben Eldridge, Mrs. James Hay, and the
writer, Mr. and Mrs. Sharp are to be con-
gratulated on the fine talent as well as the
excellent taste displayed in the family in
music and art, not only have they accom-
plished daughters in music etc., but two
sons who have natural gifts in drawing and
sculpture.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL CON-
FERENCE.

	GENERAL meeting at the Assembly Hall
Oct. 3, 1896, at 7.30 p. m., Sister Zina D.
H. Young presiding. On the stand were
Sisters Jane S. Richards, Bathsheba W.
Smith, E. B. Wells, Dr. R. B. Pratt, Mary
Pitchforth, Ann C. Woodbury, Temperance
Hinckley and Annie T. Hyde. Meeting
opened with singing “O, my Father,”

[Column 2]
prayer by Sister Ann C. Woodbury, sing-
ing “Now let us rejoice in the day of sal-
vation.” The first speaker was Sister
Mary Pitchforth, President of the Relief
Society of Juab Stake; she expressed her-
self as feeling we had much to be thank
ful for as a society, and felt that in their
Stake they had been greatly blessed tem-
porally and spiritually; a few years ago they
had one small meeting house but the land
on which it was built was very valuable
and they had sold it for $3000 and after-
wards built two new respectable houses,
one for each ward in Nephi with every con-
venience for meeting and storing things
which they had on hand, and the rooms
were provided with suitable furniture,
chairs, rockers etc., they also have a tene-
ment house of two nice adobe rooms; these
things are done by faith and works com-
bined. The Relief Society in all places
should have something of its own; spoke
of the good time the sisters had in 1847,
when Sister Eliza R. Snow would meet
with them from house to house in the Old
Fort.
	Sister Annie J. Wixom, Secretary of the
Relief Society of Box Elder Stake, repre-
sented the work there in place of the presi-
dent who was not well enough to attend.
She stated that when the Stake Tabernacle
in Brigham City was burned, each ward
society agreed to give ten dollars and save
their Sunday eggs as a donation; however
the poor with them had always been the
first consideration, the sisters in that county
were interested in the silk industry, they
are anxious to make the business more re-
munerative than it is. “Like others in our
place we are preparing for the great privi-
lege of voting. I have never heard instruc-
tion given to men about preparing to vote.”
Sister Wixom made other excellent re-
marks on woman’s work and duties.
	Sister Lydia Rich, President of the R.
S. of Morgan Stake testified to the union in
their Stake; they visited all around twice a 
year, she felt thankful that the Relief Soci-
ety had been such a blessing to her and to
all, thought all were improving and doing
a good work looking after the poor and the
aged and gathering up wheat; she often
wondered why the aged seemed so near to
her, felt blest in all her labors, asked the
Lord to care for us all.
	Sister L. M. Hart, Counselor R. S. of
Bear Lake Stake was proud to be associated
with the noble work of the Relief Society,
they had twenty-three branches to visit and
go by teams, the sisters attend meetings
regularly; thought we should all inform
ourselves upon the principles of the Gospel
and understand them, that they might give
a reason for the hope and faith within us.
	Sister Minerva Mc’Carroll from R. S.
San Juan Stake, Colorado, spoke briefly of
the work of the Society there, they had six
branches all in good working order and
united perfectly.
	Sister Priscilla Worthington of Cassia
Stake, represented the R. S. in the absence
of Sister Louisa Haight, the President, they
had six hundred miles to travel by team to
visit the branches. Sister Worthington
made an excellent financial report, very
gratifying, and also spoke well of the spir-
itual labors of the sisters.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde Counselor in the
R. S. Salt Lake Stake, represented the
work in the absence of President Horne,
who was very sick at the time, she spoke 
feelingly of the great work Sister Horne


[Column 1]
had accomplished in the Society, manifest-
ed the utmost interest in the industries es-
tablished in our midst, was pleased to hear
Sister Kimball speak of a building, intended
to do all in her power to promote the move-
ment.
	Sister Jane S. Richards, President R. S.
Weber Stake had been much edified in
hearing the reports, was pleased to hear
Sister Pitchforth’s remarks about the meet-
ing houses and tenements, felt if we could
only get some donation from each Stake of
Zion we could build a place of our own
thought we should not feel poor, we have
not had cyclones, and the high winds we
had were only a taste of what the world is
having; we have plenty of opportunities to
do good, we need to ask our Father in
heaven what our duty is from time to time;
the Lord blesses us in this work, and how
much better can we do, is for each of us to
answer; we don’t know any of us how
soon we may need help ourselves, thought
we should be very charitable and tender to
the sick and the sorrowing. The Bishops
sent for her and her Counselors when they
needed their assistance, and she always
tried to respond and do all she could
whether in organizing, or in administering
to the sick, or caring for the dead. She
felt she would like to get a little Temple
work done, but the living also must be
cared for, did not know whether she had
done the best she could but was trying to,
thought we often had impressions for our
good.
	Sister B. W. Smith felt happy and had
enjoyed the day, we should not be ashamed
of this work but take delight in it, she
liked to see her sisters old and young, love
was necessary to all, and for the dead, we
love them more as we labor for them; the
way we can gain the affections of our friends
and our children is by an increase of love; 
giving among the poor and receiving their
blessings, brings a blessing to us, they have
the greatest promises and we should re-
member them and in that we get the same
blessing; she loved to associate with good
and faithful people, and had enjoyed great
advantages in that respect; was very well
acquainted with the Prophet Joseph and his
father and mother and brothers and sisters,
she saw Brother Joseph the first day the
ordinance was performed for the dead, saw
him go down into the water the first time.
She had ministered much in Temples and
thought that was why she felt so much
interest in the work for the dead; she
realized also the blessings of patriarchs,
she had been much impressed by the bless-
ing of Patriarch Father Smith, and advised
the young people to get their patriarchal
blessings. Sister Smith also made some
remarks about the Kindergarten the teach-
ing given the little ones, especially upon
honesty, truth and virtue.
	Sister Zina referred to her visit to Poca-
tello and commended the labors of the
President there, Sister Regina Pond, and
the labors of the sisters they were so
united; they have a fine hall owned by
the sisters with every convenience for meet-
ing and taking care of articles used in their
work; also furnishing and stove and dishes
for picnics or entertainments all in order; 
she was there on the first of August, and it
was the 60th anniversary of her baptism in
the State of New York. Sister Zina spoke
earnestly of the silk industry and of the
EXPONENT, said “ You may call them my
hobbies if you will, ” said too if we would

[Column 2]
live within our means and would study
economy we would be blest and would not
need to complain, she had seen times when
she had got on her knees to ask the Lord
for something to eat, we did not know
much about hard times now. Sister Zina
then spoke a few words very impressively
in tongues; the interpretation was given by
Sister Elizabeth Marriott of Weber Stake.
Sister Jane Holt, Counselor in the R. S.
of Davis Stake made a brief report in the
absence of the President, Sister Susan Grant
who was absent in the North, having been
called to her daughter Sister Vilate Muir
who was sick, and had since been called
away behind the vail, it was a very sad
death, she had left a number of little child-
ren. Sister Holt spoke highly of Sister
Grant’s faithful labors and of the union
among the sisters in their labors of love,
also made special mention of the saving of
of wheat. Congregation sang “The Spirit
of God; the Conference was adjourned un-
til April, 1897, closing prayer by Sister E.
B. Wells.
				E. B. WELLS, Sec.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
LADIES’ SEMI-MOMTHLY MEETING.

	MINUTES of Ladies’ Meeting held in the
14th ward Assembly hall Oct. 31, 1896,
President M. I. Horne presiding. Opened
by singing “Come, come ye Saints;”
prayer by Counselor E. Webb; continued
by singing “O, ye mountains high.”
President M. I. Horne thanked the sisters
for their faith and prayers, felt they had
weight with her Heavenly Father in restor-
ing her to health, gave good counsel to the
sisters to rise and bear their testimonies, for
all would be strengthened thereby. Spoke
at some length on the discernment of
spirits and urged the sisters to be watchful
and prayerful. “Find fault with none but
ourselves; we have no right to judge
another. Attach our faith to no person or
we might be overcome; trust to the Lord
and all will be well with us.”
	Sister Margaret Brown made a few happy
and encouraging remarks concerning the
Gospel and the lives of the Saints.
	Counselor E. Webb referred to Sister
Kimball speaking on the subject of Faith,
and spoke at some length in that respect,
and also of prayer and the work for the
dead, and urged the sisters to attend to this
part of our religion.
	Sister Frances Smith spoke of the work
in the Temple aad how she enjoyed herself
therein, and prayed for Sister Horne and all
faithful sisters.
	Sister Elizabeth Paul spoke of Temple
work and wished she was better so that she
could work still more in that holy house;
also spoke at some length on the subject of
speaking ill of each other.
	Sister Louisa Stevenson spoke also on
Temple work for the dead, also alluded to
being healed by the administration of her
young son.
	Sister Julia C. Howe said as regards
Saints, “By their works ye should know
them.” Urged the sisters to cultivate
Faith and spoke of the revelation in the
Doctrine and Covenants on this subject.
Felt that she could prophesy that Sister
Horne would live for many, many years yet.
Made other encouraging remarks.
	Sister Davis spoke of the faith of her
brother who is on a mission, and how well
he had been received where he was.
	Sister Jane James felt to bear her testi-

[Column 2]
mony and rejoiced that she had beheld the
Prophet and Patriarch Joseph and Hyrum
Smith, and wished she could go into the
Temple; but she felt to wait in patience on
her Heavenly Father. Prayed to be faith-
ful unto the end and alluded to the time she
embraced the Gospel, and how she rejoiced
even until today in the same.
	Sister Julia Samson spoke of the privileges
of the Saints both in Sunday school and
meetings. Felt thankful for all the bless-
ing she had received at her Heavenly
Father’s hands, and bore her testimony to
the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Jones bore her testimony to the
truth of the Gospel. Wondered where the
sisters were who used to come to these
meetings. “Surely they have not stepped
aside! I pray for all our sisters in the
name of Jesus.”
	Sister Waterfall spoke of the pleasure it
gave her to be able to come to meeting
again, and told of a vision she had when
she was ill. One whom she saw said “We
are watching you;” also bore her testimony
to the truth of the Gospel.
	Sister Mary Silver encouraged the sisters
to be faithful and true.
	Sister Sarah Goss spoke of the healing of
her little daughter by the faith of herself
and of others, and also of the healing of
her little son and Sister Jones’ mother.
Said she had many blessings by being here
and thanked her Heavenly Father that she
had heard and received the Gospel.
	President M. I. Horne made closing re-
marks; thought she would like us to con-
tinue the subject of Faith next meeting.
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks.
Closed by singing “ ’Mid scenes of con-
fusion.” Benediction by L. D. Alder.
	LYDIA D. ALDER, Sec. pro tem.

	MINUTES of Ladies’ Semi-Monthly
Meeting held in the 14th ward Assembly
Hall, Saturday, November 14th 1896, Pres.
M. I. Horne presiding. Singing “For the
strength of the hills;” prayer by Coun-
selor Elizabeth Webb; singing “Welcome
best of all good meetings.” The minutes of
the previous meeting were read and approv-
ed. President Horne felt truly thankful
to meet her sisters today, and wished the
sisters to continue speaking on the subject
of Faith for it was Faith that prompted us
to do everything that is good; faith that
brought us the desires of our hearts. “The
humble and the faithful ones are the ones
that will reap the blessings. We have no
time to criticise the actions of the author-
ties.” If they did wrong or were led
astray the Lord would remove them; urged
the sisters to be guarded in their speeches
and prayed God to bless us.
	Counselor E. J. Stevenson spoke of her
gratitude in having the privilege of meeting
with the sisters and said it was twelve
weeks since she had enjoyed this treat; re-
ferred to her husband’s illness and said that
through faith and the administration of the
Elders he had recovered. Felt to rejoice in
this. Spoke very earnestly on faith and
prayed we might have a time of rejoicing
here together.
	Sister Waterfall made some excellent re-
marks on Faith, and told how the Lord
had opened up her way before her in a very
remarkable manner. Prayed the Lord to
bless us all. 
	Sister Lydia D. Alder though not feeling
well, felt to bear her testimony; urged
the sisters to cultivate the Spirit of God


[Column 1]
and guard against losing it.; felt that fault
finding was the first thing towards it.
Prayed that our faith might increase and
that we might always be in possession of
the Spirit of God.
	Dr. E. S. Barney said it was many years
since she had spoken in this building, and
spoke on faith, bringing up passages of
scripture to explain the meaning and told
of the inspiration she enjoyed one morning
on arising, and which she was compelled
to write. Made some very excellent and
encouraging remarks, and bore a faithful
testimony. Testified that the Spirit of
God was in this room, and prayed the
Lord to bless us all and increase our faith.
	Sister Julia Samson felt she must bear
her testimony. Said her heart was ready
to burst with joy to think we were number-
ed with the Church of the “First Born,”
and felt she could shout. Urged the sisters
to be united and have faith; for we must
cultivate it. Bore a strong testimony.
	Counselor Annie T. Hyde was pleased
to meet with her sisters, said she had been
deprived of this privilege for some time;
also spoke upon faith. Felt it was faith
that sustained us in our trials; in our
prayers we should always say “Not my
will O, God be done, but Thine.” Her
remarks on faith were beautiful. Prayed
that we might have faith that we could
know there was a God who watched over
us and heard us at all times.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball made some ex-
cellent remarks on faith, and spoke of the
WOMAN'S EXPONENT and felt that it was
not sustained as it should be. It was a
very excellent little paper and was a wo-
man’s paper and should be sustained by the
women of Utah at least. Urged the sisters
to do better in the future, and refered to the
remarks of Sister Alder on the resurrection,
she also had heard Joseph Smith say that
when the keys of the resurrection were
given it would be so simple that we would
wonder we had not seen it before. Prayed
the Lord to bless us all.
	Sister Jane James bore a faithful testi-
mony and said she had been terribly afflict-
ed in her head, and she took her consecrated
oil and anointed herself and she was heal-
ed. Felt that that was faith, and praised
the Lord for her blessings.
	Sister Barrow told how she had anointed
her children with oil and blessed them, and
they recovered; also spoke of the gift of
wisdom and discernment; said she had
always been blest with faith. Pra[-]ed
the Lord to help us to overcome evil and
have our faith increased. Testified God
heard and answered prayers when He was
sought in faith. The speaker finished by
speaking in tongues, which was interpreted
by Dr. E. S. Barney.
	Sister Elizabeth Paul felt there had never
been a greater flow of the Spirit in this
building than now. Told how she had
been blest by going to the Temple. Spoke
on faith, and felt there was a great day at
hand. Prayed we might be able to endure.
	President Horne made closing remarks.
Felt we had had a feast of fat things. Sis-
ter Horne spoke of the EXPONENT; said
there was no paper that had done the good
and allayed the prejudice that that little
paper had done. The price of it was very
low, and in the reach of all. Urged the
sisters to do all they could in this direction,
and speak of it in their Relief Society meet-
ings; also spoke of the Woman’s Store
and the competent help in there now, and

[Column 2]
hoped the sisters would patronize them.
Felt these were temporal things to speak
of, but we had to mix the temporal with
the spiritual. Urged the sisters to induce
and persuade more of the sisters to come to
these meetings; she felt they were becom-
ing better all the time.
	Adjourned for two weeks. Singing Dox-
ology, benediction by Sister J. C. Howe.
ZINA HYDE, Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


IN MEMORIAM.

RACHEL W. S. TANNER.
	SISTER RACHEL WINTER SMITH TANNER died
 at her home in South Cottonwood on Saturday,
Nov. 7th, 1896, aged 78 years and a little over six
months. She was the daughter of William and
Jane Calkin Smith and was born at Bolton War-
ren county, New York, May 1, 1818. When she
was but 13 years of age she embraced the Gospel
and was baptized into the Church of Jesus Christ 
of Latter day Saints. On the 30th of June 1836
she was married to Elder Nathan Tanner who
was then laboring in the ministry and has been a
well know figure in Church history for many
years. She removed with her husband and
parents to Kirtland in the fall of the
same year, where her first child a daughter, was
born. She afterwards went with her husband to
Far West, Missouri, where she shared in the terri-
ble persecutions endured by the Saints such as
burning and pillaging their houses and driving the
Saints therefrom, while her husband was under
guard in the town. Sister Tanner and her sister
were alone at her home about a mile and a half
distant with her only child, an infant daughter,
lying at the point of death. Not knowing what
hour she might be forced to flee, homeless and
friendless, she with her own brave hands dug its
little grave beneath the floor and sat the night
out with her precious babe wrapped in its mantle
prepared to consign its little form to mother earth
should it breathe its last before she was forced to
flee. Through her unbounded love, tender and
affectionate care and fervent faith and prayers,
the babe lived and grew to womanhood; and al-
though she died at the early age of thirty-five had
over forty descendents, the children and grand-
children of Elder James S. Brown of this city.
With her husband Sister Tanner left Far West in
the exodus of the Saints, and moved to a place
called New Liberty in Adams county, Illinois,
where they remained for a couple of years when
they removed to near Montrose just across the
river from Nauvoo. Here they remained till
driven from Nauvoo. From Nauvoo they went
to Winter Quarters where they tarried a year,
and in 1848 they came to Utah and settled at
South Cottonwood. Sister Tanner has been be-
loved by all her acquaintances as well as by her
family for her kind and affectionate disposition as
well as for her devotion to the principles of the
everlasting Gospel. She was fully prepared for
her decease which she met with the same calm-
ness and fortitude that distinguished her through
life. She and her husband, Elder Nathan Tanner
were just previous to her departure among the
oldest if they were not the very oldest living
members of the Church. Her daughter Mrs.
Emily S. Richards is well known in Utah, as is
her son Nathan Tanner of Ogden. She called
her children to her bedside and with a clear
mind and full faith in her glorious future disposed
of her earthly effects, and gave directions as to
her funeral. It was numerously attended in the
South Cottonwood meeting house, where the
services were conducted by Bishop J. S. Rawlins,
who bore a splendid testimony to the worth of the
deceased. Impressive addresses were delivered
by Elders F. D. Richards, F. M. Lyman and F. S.
Richards, and President Joseph F. Smith preached
a funeral discourse of great feeling, power and
light, In which principles pertaining to futurity
were clearly portrayed, and the life and character
of the departed were eulogized in appropriate
language. After benediction by Elder John T.
Caine the remains were followed by a large pro-
cession of carriages to the Salt Lake cemetery.
	Thus this faithful pioneer has gone to join the
goodly company of the blest who have preceded
her, to enjoy the sweet rest of the just and pre-
pare for the glorious resurrection morn, when
those who are in Christ shall come forth to in-
herit the reward that is prepared for them. The
memory of the pure in heart is blessed!
								[COM.


WOMAN’S CO OP STORE.

	Dear Sister:—We desire to call your
attention to the fact that the Woman’s
Co-op on 1st South, four doors West of
Dinwoodey Furniture Store is under new
management and will, we think, interest
our readers if they will call there and see
for themselves the improved aspect of the
store.
	The committee have engaged Sister Fran-
cis and her daughter, Sister Kelly, to take
charge. The former is a woman of great
business tact having held prominent posi- 
tions for over 20 years. Her testimonials
from English mercantile houses are undeni-
able proofs of her ability. Mrs. Kelly was
in the employ of a Court milliner and dress-
maker in London and was her mother’s
first hand during the six years they had
large dressmaking parlors of their own
previous to leaving England.
	We can now undertake dressmaking in
all its branches and can assure perfect fit
and style; ladies capes and jackets a spec-
ality. Our charges are moderate. Dresses
from $5.00 up.
	The Millinery Department is now replete
with all the novelties of the season, both in
trimmed and untrimmed hats, also bonnets
and toques, turbans and children’s hats and
caps.
	We have a special line of ladies and child-
rens Logan knitted stockings, union suits,
vests etc. very cheap.
	We wish to call your attention to the
knitted garments, small size (ladies) $3.50
a pair, and large size $4.00. All who have
worn them are well pleased. Every requi-
site for Temple work always on hand.
	As the share holders of the Woman’s
Co-op are all interested in the welfare of
Utah and home industries and productions,
and desirous of establishing home institu-
tions, therefore we feel that we shall not
appeal in vain in asking for the patronage
of the sisters and the general public to come
and see us and we will do our best to give
you satisfaction
								D.


WELCOME IDAHO!

	TELEGRAM from Hon. Edgar Wilson,
member of Congress from Idaho, to the
Woman's Journal:
		BOISE, IDAHO, November 9, 1896.
	It will be impossible to give the figures
of the vote on the woman suffrage Amend-
ment until the official count has been com-
pleted in the counties. Returns as yet are 
incomplete. Information received indicates
that the Amendment has received two-
thirds of the votes cast on that proposition, 
but less than two-thirds of the entire votes
polled. On account of a peculiar provision
of our state Constitution it is claimed that
an Amendment must receive two-thirds of
all the votes cast in a general election. If 
this construction prevail the Amendment
will be lost. 
						—Ex.


CERAMICS.

(Read before the U. W. Press Club.)
	GERMANY claims to have made enameled
ware in the 13th century; be that as it
may, it has attained considerable reputation
in Ceramics. It is difficult to determine


[Column 1]
which is the superior work, Sevres or Dres-
den. In flowers, birds, insects, animals
and figures the Dresden is superior. In
colors, especially rose and blue, the Sevres
excels. The price of Sevres is much
greater than Dresden, however.
	France stands among the first in the
manufacture of porcelain. In 1698 soft
porcelains were made in France, and from
that time on many factories were establish-
ed until 1756 when the famous Sevres
works were established and owned by
Louis V., and he issued a decree forbidding
any person making painted or gilded porce-
lain. Thus for a long time only royalty
could buy Sevres. The most eminent
artists were employed and their marks were
placed upon the ware they decorated. The
pictures of the great Masters, Raphael,
Vandyke and Titian were copied by them.
	The most celebrated service ever made
there was executed in 1778 for the Empress
of Russia, Catharine II., consisting of 740
pieces and costing $200,000.
	The characteristic color of Sevres is deep
dark blue. The cost of the ware depends
upon the work as well as the breakage,
which often required the molding and bak-
ing of several pieces before a perfect one
was finished.
	We come now to cultivated England our
friend and our foe. The ancient pot-
ters of England were numerous, the art
having been used by the various tribes who
possessed and governed the British Isles at
different periods—Celtic, Roman, British.
Saxon and Norman potters abound in
tombs and barrows. The Celtic are chiefly
funeral urns, domestic vessels, cups, bowls
and lamps. It has been supposed they
were made by women. Norman potters
show but small advance and for a long
time after the Norman conquest there was
little improvement. Tiles were made and
many churches were paved with them in
the 13th and 14th century; many of them
are still preserved.
	Drinking cups of lead glazed ware with
two or four handles were made and they
were often large enough to satisfy the de-
sires of three or four persons seated around,
then each one of them could lift it by his
own handle and drink from his side of the
rim. In the 17th century the English pot-
ters began to produce a ware resembling
Delft to take the place of pewter, and the
arms, mottoes and names of the owners were
painted upon them in blue. There is one
in the Kensington Museum marked Anne
Chapman 1660, one with the motto “Be
merry and wise.”—1660.—The only
color used was blue, and one master work-
man who was given to fiddling and rhym-
ing when his men would ask for instruc-
tions would sing,
		“Tip it with blue
		And then it will do.” 
	Pottery was also used as mortuary tablets
in some of the old English church-yards in
the early part of the 18th century.
	Today it is said that the English potters 
not only rival all the continental factories
in every department, but surpass them.
Certainly some of their wares are very
beautiful. When the old ladies of
England were ridiculed for their devotion
to old china, their critics little knew of the
latent force resting in a cabinet containing
a few old teapots and cups and saucers.
These old pieces of china stimulated the
desire to reproduce them, and thus an in-
dustry grew up which gave employment to

[Column 2]
hundreds of workmen. But for the collec
tors of England, we and they, might have
gone on a century longer eating from cheap
Delft or pewter.
	In the first half of the 18th century
Josiah Wedgewood the first student of art
among English potters introduced many
improvements, Many factories were al-
ready established with fine productions,
but always expensive; but the Wedgewood
remained moderately so. Chelsea, Derby,
Worcester made at this time occasional
wares, mostly the best continental pottery,
but these were exceptional. The public
taste was not up to the highest order in
the early part of this century.
	When public museums began to show
the people of England what Ceramic art
had done in ancient and modern times, and
when the old collections in private hands,
for which the women of England had been
ridiculed, were exhibited a new era began
in English Ceramic art. Until today it
claims in this, as in everything else, to sur-
pass the world; which of course is a mat-
ter of question.
	This piece of Wedgewood I have here is a
fac simile of the famous Portland vase as near
as pottery and glass can be made
	The Portland vase is a work of the 2nd, or
3rd century. It is a beautiful cinerary urn of
transparent dark blue glass formed of two
strata and cut in cameo style. It was
found the middle of the 16th century in a
marble sarcophagus near Rome. It was
deposited in the Barberini palace Rome,
hence it is often called the Barberini vase.
It was afterwards purchased by the Duchess
of Portland for $6000. It admits of no
classification as it stands alone of its
kind. The Duchess loaned it to the British
museum where a drunken medical student
smashed it with a stone. The pieces were
so skillfully put together that much of its
beauty still remains. It still remains in
the British museum. The first copies made
by Wedgewood sold for $130 apiece.
	Holland has become noted from the
ware made in Delft which just now seems
to be in such demand that the factories can-
not fill their orders which show what a fad
can accomplish. It also makes a porcelain
which closely resembles the French ware,
but at much less price. A story is told
that a Delft manufacturer had four daughters
about to marry four Ceramic painters of
pottery on the same day. His workmen
made four violins of pottery and at the
marriage feast the four grooms played on
the four violins, while others played upon
various other instruments that were made
of the same material. The violins were
preserved in the family.
	America abounds in Delft ware. Our
Dutch ancestors on Long Island ornamented 
their chimneys with delft tiles on which
scriptural subjects were painted. English
potters produce the ware now.
	Sweden did not manufacture faience
until the 18th century, and has never
attained any eminence.
	Denmark has some potteries at Kiel
which are celebrated for their delicate
molding and painting of wares, but her
most celebrated are the Copenhagen ware.
	Russia borrowed the art of making ware
from Holland, Peter the Great having
brought potters from Delft. Today they
make some beautiful wares, and their ex-
hibit at the World’s Fair was excellent.
	Austria is chiefly noted for its Vienna
ware.

[Column 3]
	Switzerland seems to have devoted her
talents to enameled ware, to making stoves.
	From mounds in North and South
America there has been taken many speci-
mens of soft pottery, but no date. Every-
thing prior to the discovery of the western
continent is buried in obscurity. The
specimens found, however, show close
resemblance to European fabric. After
the settlement of America by Europeans
coarse pottery was made here, but our
ancestors used pewter and wooden dishes.
	Pottery was not common in America until
the middle of the 18th century, and few of
revolutionary times had ever seen porce-
lain. Tea was not used in Europe until
the middle of the 17th century, and teapots
and teacups and saucers were not made in
Europe until the latter part of the 17th
century. So consequently when the people
of Mass. gave their great tea-party in Boston
harbor, porcelain was conspicuous by its
absence.
	Before the end of the 18th century many
potteries were established. In 1770 China
works were established in Philiadelpia a few
specimens of which are preserved. In 1847
a factory was established in Bennington,
Vt. In 1848 another factory was establish-
ed, but the glazing cracked and the body
blistered. After many failures it was found
they had a man in their employ who was
paid by English parties to make failures.
He was discharged and the porcelain no
longer cracked. From that time to this
potteries have increased until now there are
nearly one thousand potteries in the United
States turning out all kinds of ware, from
terra cotta to porcelain. I will speak brief-
ly on a few and show what beautiful ware
America attained to under the greatest
difficulty. 
						S. L. M. 
                   (Continued.)


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


MRS. OLIVE C. BUTLER Mrs. Evange-
line Heartz and Mrs. M. A. B. Conine, of
Denver have been elected members of the
Colorado House of Representatives on the
Populists fusion ticket. One of these
legislators-elect, Mrs. Butler, is entitled to
especially cordial congratulations from
Massachusetts, since she is a Massachusetts
emigrant, a Boston woman, born under the
very shadow of Bunker Hill Monument,
and educated in the public and private
schools of Massachusetts.
	THE Vermont Senate, last Thursday,
Nov 5, passed the Municipal Woman Suf-
frage bill by an almost unanimous vote,
only one Senator voting against it.
	MISS GRACE E. PATTON of the Colorado
State Agricultural College, has just been
elected State Superintendent of public in-
struction, to succeed Mrs. Angenette M.
Peavey.


R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K.THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

A Christmas Greeting and a Happy New Year to All.	


