VOL. 25.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER I, I896. No. 5.


CONTENTS:
	Gail Hamilton. Woman Know Thyself—Ellis
R  Shipp. Ladies’ Semi-Monthly Meetirg—A.
T. Hyde, Sec. Items From Parowan—E. Crane
Watson.  Message From “Deborah.” U. W. P.
C—Ellis R. Shipp, Sec. Leaves From My Journal
—Kim. The Apostle Peter Wept—Zion,s Con-
vert.
	EDITORIAL:—Ellen Curtis Spencer Clawson.
Woman’s Day At Saltair. Editorial Notes.
	POETRY:—Spirit Whisperings—E. R. S.
The Soul’s Vision—Laura Spencer Porter.
Dawn—Stuart Steine. The Conqueror—Bessie
Chandler.


SPIRIT WHISPERINGS.

HOW impotent, feeble and weak,
	Would frail mortality be,
How unfit to cope with the world
	And its stern reality,
Without divine inspiration
	To lead and guide us aright;
To prompt each impulse and action,
	Endow with superior light.
How futile would be all effort,
	How weak the power of speech,
How vain our bravest endeavors,
	Great aims we never could reach,
Without our Father’s assistance
	To climb the wearisome hills.
To cheer, to comfort and strengthen
	Our changing, oft-flagging wills.
How poignant would be the anguish
	Found in our journey through life,
Pain, sickness, sorrow and parting,
	The cares of the world and its strife,
Without these sweet silent powers,
	Leading us into the light.
Like the fragrance of the flowers
	And breaking of day after night.
In the still haunts of the midnight,
	The silence of dawn’s purple haze,
Through busy cares of the daylight,
	We list with a silent amaze
To the voices whispering to us,
	Our spirits truly commune,
A Presence seems to imbue us
	Like the joys of roseate June.
That power of infinite mercy
	Guiding all mortals on earth.
Leading through life’s fitful journey.
	To the goal of Heavenly birth.
The whisperings of angels, and loved ones,
	In that fair mystic beyond;
The voice of the infinite Father,
	To whom our feelings respond.
E. R. S.


THE SOUL'S VISION.

	By Laura Spencer Porter.
“O Soul, look forth, and tell me now
	What seest thou?"
	"I see,” the Soul replies,
	With eager eyes,
"The morning meadows full of blossoms rare;
I fain would pluck what is so wondrous fair.
May I not put this tiresome work away?”
‘‘Not yet,” Life cries "full long the summer’s day
	Return thou to thy work.”


“Again, O Soul, look forth, and now
	What seest thou?”
"I see” the Soul replies,
	With tired eyes.
“The aged mountains stretched along the west. 
I fain would leave my work to seek their rest
The breath of pines would cool the dusty noon!”
"Stay yet!" life cries; "would’st thou give up so
	soon?
	Return thou to thy work." 
“Once more, O Soul, look forth, and'now
	What seest thou?”
“I see,” the Soul replies,
	With saddened eyes,
‘Beyond the hills the stretch of peaceful sky.”
“It is a signal, and the time draws nigh!”
Life cries. “The meaning of yon low-hung moon
is that the day is o’er, the night comes soon.
	Put thou aside thy work.”
Disturbed, the Soul looked forth, and now, 
	With troubled brow,
‘‘I fain would stay!” she cries 
	With earnest eyes.
“What matter that in yonder western sky
The moon's pale finger curveth beckoningly?
Unfinished is the work, O darkening west.
I am not ready yet to take my rest;
	I still would stay and work!”


GAIL HAMILTON

	HAMILTON, Mass., Aug. 17—Miss
Abigail Dodge (Gail Hamilton), the famous
author, died tonight at her beautiful home,
from the effects of a paralytic shock. Too
much work in mailing her last book, “The
Valley of Death,” during the hot weather
broke her strength. 
	Miss Mary Abigail Dodge, writer, bio-
grapher and controversialist, widely known
under the pen name of Gail Hamilton, Was
a native of the town in which she died,
haying been born in the year 1830. At the
age of ten years she went to Dr. Clark’s
private school in Cambridge. She was
graduated from Ipswich academy at the age
of 20. At the age of 21 she went to Hart-
ford as assistant in the Hartford high
school. She refused to take the customary
examination, but was given the position
without doing so. She was also instructor
in physical science in this school for sever-
al years and was subsequently governess in
the family of Dr. Gamaliel Bailey of
Washington D. C., editor of the National
Era, to which paper she became a con-
tributor.
	In 1865-67, she became one of the editors
of Our Young Folks, a magazine for child-
ren, published in Boston. From 1870 un-
til’a little over a year ago she had lived
most of the time with her cousin, Mrs.
James G. Blaine, in Washington. In the
course of this daily contact with the Blaine
family, Miss Dodge was led into a very
close friendship with Mr. Blaine, and at the
death of the latter she became his literary
executor, having posession of all his papers
and documents of value to her as his author-
zed biographer. She was engaged, as
frequently as her health would permit, on
Mr. Blaine’s biography from, the time of his
death until her illness of last year, and it is
thought her untiring devotion to the work
was instrumental in bringing about that
prostration.
	Since the illness that came on so sudden-
ly in the Blaine mansion in Washington,
Miss Dodge has lived very quietly in her
old home at Hamilton, Mass.
	Gail Hamilton was a frequent contributor
to prominent magazines, and her published
works written in a witty and aggressive
style, consist largely of selections from her
contributions. Her books include Country
loving and Country thinking, Gala Days,
New Atmosphere and Stumbling Blocks,
Skirmishes and Sketches, Red Letter Days
in Applethrope and Summer Rest, Wool
Gathering, Woman’s Wrongs, A Counter
Irritant, Battle of Books, Woman’s Worth
and Worthiness, Little Folks’ Life, Child
World, Twelve Miles from Lemmon,
Nursery Noonings, Sermons for the Clergy,
First Love is Best, What Think Ye of
Christ? Our Common School System, Di-
vine Guidance, Memorial to Allen W.
Dodge and Unsuppressible Book,
	in 1887 she wrote a series of letters on
civil service reform for a New York paper,-
Letters on a wide range of public questions
written for the Boston journal were widely
copied throughout the United States. .
	Miss Dodge’s one novel, First Love is
Best, had not the success which attended,
some of her other works.


WOMAN KNOW THYSELF.

	IN these days when schools, seminaries,
colleges and universities are being estab- 
lished to propagate the weal and wisdom of
the world, let us not overlook a school for
women wherein they can obtain a know-
ledge of themselves and the great scientific
laws that govern their physical organiza-
tion. This, indeed, should be made a point
of every woman’s education to fully qualify
her for the crowning mission of life, that of
motherhood.
	The old maxim “Man know thyself’’ is
equally applicable to woman. The ideal
education fits and prepares a woman, or
man either, for the practical duties of life.
Therefore, they should make a serious study
of life; its origin from its very incipiency,
that intricate problem which can only be
solved by inspirational genius; indeed she
should go back of this and consider well
the potent influences of heredity; its bear-
ing upon the physical, mental and moral
development of posterity. Of hygiene she
should be a very master. She should study
well the constituent elements of air, food
and drink, clothing and exercise, their
chemical and organic properties and their 
physiological effects upon the human or-
ganization. If the mother recognizes the
normal standard, how readily will her
quick eye detect any deviation therefrom;
when simple remedies promptly applied
will often prevent more protracted and ser-
ious maladies. These subjects should en-
gage the attention of every woman, what-


ever her life work or vocation may be.
And should she possess any desire to be-
come a professional nurse or efficient ac-
coucheur, still greater is the need of the
knowledge. If any one doubts the ever
present and growing demand for skilled
help for suffering women, especially in our
distant towns and villages, that one should
sojourn in those districts beyond the reach
of competent physicians, and listen as the
writer has listened, to the recitals of suf-
fering caused through a lack of skill and
knowledge. Also notice the results in the
failing health, the loss of strength, the
shortened lives of the masses of women;
with the broken homes. the lonely firesides,
the motherless children. Then can we
fully sense how precious are the lives of
wives and mothers, and how all-important to
prolong those lives in health and vigor.
	In many places women are through
sheer necessity forced to practice because in
the kindness of their heart they desire to
benefit their fellow creatures. All unmind-
ful of personal comfort, they answer these
untimely calls. Night or day, rain or shine
ministering to their sister women with all
the inherent gentleness of their sex, and all
too often without the least remuneration
for these wearisome services. That this
mission is one of philanthropy and unselfish
love no one can gainsay, and had she been
prepared for this labor of mercy by
thorough education in the science of Ob-
stetrics, how much greater would be the
good accomplished; then could she meet
every emergency that might arise.
	How much more fitting that woman
should receive these delicate attentions
from one of her own sex, if one can be se-
cured who is qualified for such offices.
	Knowledge and skill are the great pre-
requisites, for occasions not unfrequently
arise when life is in great peril and there is
no time to send miles away for competent
assistance. Thus is emphasized the neces-
sity of skilled help in every town and vil-
lage. Truly the educated nurse and
obstetrician should be co-eval with the race,
and found wherever there is habitation of
man.
	Ellis R. Shipp M. D.


WOMANS EXPONENT


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY
MEETING.
	MINUTES of meeting held in the 14th
Ward Assembly Rooms, July 25, 1896,
Prest. M. Isabella Horne presiding Sing-
ing “For the strength of the hills” etc.,
prayer by Sister S. A. Gibson, singing
“We thank Thee O God for a Prophet.”
President Horne spoke of the necessity of 
serving the Lord. It is a duty for us to 
attend these meetings as they were organiz-
ed by President Young for the benefit of 
the sisters. The Lord has a a book of re-
membrance, and how can we expect a great
reward if we neglect these opportunities.
Pleasure and vanity seem to be the order
of the day, and the spirit of the times in 
which we live. Life is real and earnest,
how much better if we can look back and be
like Paul, sure of a reward among the just.
Solomon says “For all these things we shall
be brought to judgment.” She said that 
her grandson was healed by faith and the
prayers that were offered up in his behalf.
Felt to mourn the loss of Abraham H.
Cannon, one of Zion’s best, purest and 
brightest men; he has gone to receive the
reward of his labors. We always have our

[Column 2]
Father to bless and comfort us in our sor-
row. We realize the power of Satan, but
we must not be discouraged, but be full of 
faith. Urged the sisters to bear their testi-
monies; we may ask God to help us, but 
if we do not get up and make an effort he
can not do so. She gave much more good
and timely instruction to the sisters.
	A sister felt to thank the Lord that he had 
been so kind to her in permitting her to en-
joy the many blessings of the Gospel.
	Sister Brown felt to thank the Lord for 
His blessings, and it behooves us to meet
often together. Spoke of the blessings
that we have in the Temple. The Lord
made us, is our great physician, and we 
should call on Him to heal us. 
	Sister Martha G. Young felt impressed to 
speak. She always felt a great interest in 
the Relief Society, and knew this was the 
work of God. She spoke of the great bless-
ings of the Lord to her, and said she had felt
to thank Him for the love she had for this
work. “We are sent on a mission and will
have strength to perform it. How blessed 
it is to know that He will bear us through.”
	Sister Jane James bore her testimony;
felt there was nothing else to live for than
this kingdom of God, and knew that the 
Spirit of the Lord was here. She felt to 
rejoice that she had the privilege of seeing 
the prophet Joseph.
	Sister Peterson bore her testimony of 
being healed by faith. Another sister tes-
tified, she had seen the lame walk and the
blind restored to sight, and also had been 
healed herself. She knew the Lord would 
bless those who tried to benefit others, and 
work in the Relief Society. Spoke of the 
missionaries, and the great work they had
to perform; hoped the Lord would bless us
all. A sister sang “Sweetly may the bless-
ed Spirit.”
	A sister bore her testimony to the truth
of the Gospel. Although she lived some 
distance, she felt that all were working in 
the same cause; spoke of the signs of the 
times, that they indicated the coming of 
the Son of God. Felt that the labor in the 
Temple gave more satisfaction than any
other, and said that inasmuch as we keep
the commandments of the Lord, we shall
be blest and receive our reward.
	Sister Morris sang “O My Father.” A
sister spoke of the great pleasure she re-
ceived from her work in the Temple. Her
husband’s father, who was dead, came to 
her in a dream and said: “You are free and
I am in a prison, why do you not do a 
work for me so that I can be liberated.”
Felt like spending her life in doing work
for the dead. She also spoke on the Word
of Wisdom, and told how her children were
all afflicted with diptheria and she told her
Father that she had kept the Word of Wis-
dom, and now she claimed His blessing.
Her children were all saved as He had 
promised.
	Sister Smith prayed for the kingdom of 
God, and bore her testimony to the truth of 
this work. Spoke of her sorrow at the 
death of Apostle A. H. Cannon, and said we 
must love one another. Asked the bless-
ing of the Lord on all. 
	Another sister spoke of the necessity of 
guarding our children to keep them from 
evil. Testified to her boy being cured of 
fits through faith; but he was left blind and 
afterwards had his sight restored. 
	Sister Barrow spoke of the time of the 
maimed and frozen emigrants, and the 
great faith needed to endure these things. 

[Column 3]
Spoke of the great care needed to guard our
young people; said we all want our child-
ren hereafter, urged the necessity of moth-
ers to teach them continually. She also
bore testimony of her children being healed
by faith, and of one son afterwards going
on a mission to New Zealand for three
years.
	Sister Zina Young spoke of her daughter-
in-law who the doctors said had a cataract
in her eyes, and who would be hopelessly 
blind, receiving her sight through faith. 
Thought the younger people should take 
an interest in the Relief Society and attend, 
so that they would be able to perform their
duties when the older sisters passed away. 
Joseph Smith said this society was organiz-
ed after the order of the Holy Priesthood.
	Sister Annie Taylor Hyde said that her 
father was unable to meet with his family 
at his birthday party before his death, but 
sent a letter in which he expressed a desire
among other things, that his family should
identify themselves with the Relief Society
and other organizations that were estab-
lished in the Church, and said: “While
you are receiving information and benefit,
you at the same time, may make yourselves
useful and a blessing unto others.” He
said the Prophet Joseph Smith organized
the Relief Society for that purpose. She felt 
a just desire, in her humble way, to use 
her talents to help build up the kingdom of
God.
	A sister made a few remarks on the 
promises of the Lord, and said those who 
grind the faces of the poor will be destroyed. 
	Sister Mary P. Silver said that the M. I.
A. and other associations had grown out of 
the Relief Society. 
	Sister Hazon had a humble testimony to 
bear of the truth of the work, and prayed 
that we might all remain faithful. 
	Sister Phelps thought we all had a know-
ledge of the Lord, and hoped we might all 
give heed to the prophets and prophetesses
among us. She hoped the sisters would all 
have integrity in the exercise of suffrage,
and not any one of them sell her vote. 
	Sister Morris knew this was the work of 
God, had received many blessings from the 
Lord. Another sister felt timid but thank-
ful for the Gospel. Felt that the Lord bless-
ed her greatly. 
	Sister Horne spoke of the contemplated 
excursion to Saltair. Thought there was 
a lack of respect for the aged people, and 
also to the authorities of the Church. 
Spoke of the organization of the Society;
said Joseph the prophet organized it, and it 
can not be organized without the priest-
hood, aud would say to the sisters, do not 
organize your societies without consulting 
the bishop; and strive to have harmony in 
all that you do. 
	Meeting adjourned for two weeks. 
Singing “When first the glorious light of
Truth.” Benediction by Sister Julia C.
Howe. 
		A.T. HYDE, Sec. pro tem.


IN New York there is a free-silver club
of women to urge the election of Mr. Bryan.
It has been suggested that these women
favor silver, because speech is silver and
silence is gold. But this can scarcely be
We have every confidence that the great
and overwhelming majority of women are
for gold. Gold is the metal of the wed-
ding-ring.—Baltimore Sun.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT


DAWN

Stuart Stetne.
Time after time, a mystery divine,
	The nameless wonder of the dawn, we see,
	Stealing o’er heaven and earth so silently,
	With touch so gentle and so infinite fine.
No subtlest sense could see and mark the line
	When the first gleam of breaking day, set free
	Even from the night itself, shall come to be
	More than a paler dark, where faintly shine
The stars of heaven. But clearer and more clear,
	Slowly a thousand things come forth to sight,
	And forms and tints half hidden, far and near,
Melt from gray shadow into amber light,
	Till from its ever-swelling streams are born
	The full-flushed splendors of the perfect morn.
	—Century.


THE CONQUEROR.

	Bessie Chandler
To his dead heart alone I will surrender:
	He whom death conquered, now has conquered
	me.
I held my fort like a brave defender—
	Now it stands open for the world to see.
There was a castle once, in ancient story,
	Besieged by one so noble in his fame
That when he died the people thought it glory
	To yield him what no living knight could
	claim.
So as he lay, in dented armor sleeping—
	A-hero, after wearing strife at ease—
They gathered near, and gave unto his keeping,
	Safe in his mailed hand, their castle keys.
So do I yield to-day to you my lover—
	Who died before my hard heart’s frowning
	wall,
And never knew its harshness did but cover
	Only a longing to surrender all.
Here are the keys, the last reserve is broken—
	What does it matter now, since all is past?
Let all men hear, and know that by this token
	I loved you only, loved you first and last.
	—Scribner's Magazine.


ITEMS FROM PAROWAN.

Editor Exponent:
	Yesterday and today we had a royal
feast in the way of meetings. Our Relief
Society Conference convened yesterday, and
reports of a commendable nature were
heard from all the wards but one, and
many praisworthy subjects were treated
upon by the brothers and sisters, besides
the testimonies that were borne to the divin-
ty of the restored Gospel.
	Today all attendants at Primary meeting 
were more than repaid for their trouble,
the children far excelled our best anticipa-
tions; every part was appropriate and well
rendered, and those little ones unwittingly
taught older ones many good lessons.
	A very touching occurrence has over-
shadowed our townspeople with a sadness
that would be almost more than could be
endured were we not willing to acknow-
ledge a Providential care in all things; it is
the demise of one of our Primary counselors
Sister Eliza Gurr Micklesen, a lovely wo-
nan just 36 years old, the mother of eight
children seven of whom survive her, and
the wife of Joseph Mickleson. A more de-
voted couple to each other and their child-
ren is very rarely found. From the time
her beautiful baby was born, her condition
was extremely critical though sister Eliza


realized it not, and was full of hope to the
last. She tarried but three days with her
loved ones, dying Aug. 2.
	Three weeks before her death her seven-
teen year old daughter was shown in a
dream, seven nights in succession, the birth
of her baby brother, the family surround-
ing the death bed in prayer and supplication
for the mother's life, and even the white
casket being covered with wreaths and
bouquets by her, just as it took place on that
solemn occasion.
	Most people are convinced that no earthly
skill, not even the faith and prayers of the
priesthood and loved ones (which never
ceased) could keep her on this earthly
sphere, for as was remarked by one dear
sister today, “she was doubtlessly needed to
work in that great Primary over the river
of Time.”
	The husband and children have nothing
to regret in regard to their course during
her life; so noble, considerate and true
were they all in every respect. What a
solace this must be and how intensified will
be the happiness of the meeting of this ex-
emplary family when they unite to part no
more! Until then, one fond farewell Sis-
ter Eliza. 
	E. CRANE WATSON.


[Column 1]
MESSAGE FROM “DEBORAH.”

	MRS. ZERELDA G. WALLACE, whose
79th birthday, August 6, was celebrated in
Indiana on “franchise day”, is known in
W. C. T. U. ranks as “Deborah”, because
of the wisdom of her counsel during the
many years she devoted herself to woman
suffrage and Temperance work. The follow-
ing message was written by Mrs. Wallace
for the “franchise number” of the Indian-
apolis Organizer.
			CATARACT, JUNE 18, 1896.
To my Sisters of the W. C. T. U., who are
	working for temperance and the freedom
	of women:
	Learning from our dear Miss Reed that
you will observe the 6th of August for the
furtherance of these two great movements,
I feel moved by the Spirit, as our dear
friends the Quakers would say, to send a
word of greeting and encouragement. Al-
though a disabled soldier, my hopes are as
bright and my interest as great as it ever
was, in the ultimate triumph of these great
reforms. We all should rejoice at the ad-
vance and the present outlook for woman’s
progress. Her freedom lies at the base of
all true racial growth and development. If
it be true, as Mr. Gladstone and many other
wise men have said, that America is to be-
come the world’s educator in free institu-
tions, it is time that the ballot should be
put in the hands of all its citizens, without
regard to sex limitations. Let it be the de-
termined effort and persistent purpose of all
women to work to this end.
	Yours for the uplifting of Humanity,
					Z. G. WALLACE.
	The familiar ring of the words recalls the
days between 1880 and ’84, when it was
my privilege to be associated in suffrage
work with “Mother” Wallace, as the
younger women are wont to call her rever-
ently. Richly has she earned the endear-
ing title, for she has literally “mothered”
three sets of children. And, furthermore,
to quote her own plea most frequently
made, has thereby “earned her right to the
ballot.”

[Column 2]
In those days she was keeping house in
the old homestead, looking well to the ways
of her household, and to the upcoming of
four grandchildren left to her care at the
death of a beloved daughter. To avoid
taking her away from home so frequently,
the executive committee of the State Suf-
frage Association met in her old-fashioned
parlors, and occasionally the individual
members thereof made their way thither
with perplexing questions, and came away 
with their burdens lightened.
	One of the most impressive pictures in
my memory is of the times, when business
disposed of, this noble woman, “strong, 
steady and serene”, philosophized concern- 
ing the bearing of woman suffrage upon 
national and human progress. Matronly
in figure, sitting there in her rocking-chair,
industriously knitting on a half grown
stocking, she would have delighted the eye
of an artist seeking a model typical of
feminine personality and occupation; yet
her strong features and massive head, with
its crown of beautiful curling gray hair,
which she wore simply parted in front and
cut short at the neck, always reminded me .
of the portraits of the ablest early American
statesmen. Intensely devoted to her
country, loving humanity as a mother
loveth, unswerving in her belief in an over-
ruling, beneficent Providence, she gathered 
lessons from the history of civilization and
religion, and then looked into the far future
and saw America free and righteous, ex-
alted among the nations.
	What an inspiration she was! Deborah,
the wise, the prophetess!
	Her enthusism and diligence were a
standing example and reproof to us who
grew tired and discouraged during an
“amendment campaign.” Instant in sea-
son, no effort too arduous, no means too
humble. She enlightened the woman who 
served in her kitchen, and through her
reached the brothers and cousins who could
vote. She gave suffrage tracts to her
butcher and to her grocer. She was not
offensive in her proselyting, nor did she
offer tracts with an apology. She took it
for granted that men were interested in
current public questions, and would be glad
to read. She marked her WOMAN’S JOUR-
NALS and mailed them to friends, with direc-
tions to read and to send on and on. As a
public speaker she was much in demand,
and she responded willingly, yet was ever
ready to give way to others. Later on
when the grandchildren had flitted their 
several ways, she gave up her house
and went into the lecture field. She
attended conventions both Woman Suffrage
and W. C. T. U., addressed legislatures
and traveled from state to state, sparing not
herself, until one day the silver cord was
suddenly strained, and she was compelled
to retire from active service.
	No doubt she still finds ways to work for
Woman Suffrage, for she often used to de-
clare with solemn emphasis, "It is a part
of my religion.”—Woman's Journal.


MRS. HENRY WARD BEECHER was
eighty-four years old on August 26.
	“At the National Council of Education at
Buffalo, N. Y., one of the most interesting
papers was on schoolroom hygiene. The re-
port was based on papers received from teach-
ers all over the country who have made a
special study of the hygienic conditions of
their own schoolrooms."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS, - - Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributer.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparei[-]
coace one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
spunt to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 & 228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M. I. Business hours from
10 a. m. to 5 p. m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
	PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
econd-class matter.

	SALT LAKE CITY SEPTEMBER 1, 1896.


[Column 1]
ELLEN CURTIS SPENCER CLAWSON.
	IT is very painful to be called to part
with those we have known and loved so
many years, and with whom we have been
closely associated in our life and labor.
The sister whose demise we now record
was a dear friend of bye-gone days, and her
death calls up many reminiscences and ex-
periences of the past. A true and sincere
friend at all times and in all places was
Sister Ellen C. Clawson; her life has been a
noble example from her childhood until her
spirit took its flight from earth to a brighter
realm. Her last moments, just previous to
her departure, were singularly calm and
peaceful. One of her daughters remarked
to the writer that she was quite sure her
mother had an escort to accompany her to
the spirit world.
	Sister Clawson's death occurred Aug. 25,
1896. Her husband and all her children were
gathered around her bedside, where she lay
perfectly conscious and, as ever during her
life, thoughtful of every one but herself.
Her faculties of mind were bright and active
until the last when her beautiful gentle
spirit departed from this world to join the
innumerable hosts of Saints who have
gone before.
	Sister Clawson was of New England
parentage. Her grandfather, Daniel Spenc-
er served in the Revolutionary war; her
father Orson Spencer, was college bred and
distinguished for his scholarly attainments.
He was a Baptist minister prior to his be-
coming a Latter-day Saint. Her mother,
Catherine Curtis, was also of Puritan de-
scent. As a child and a young girl Miss
Spencer endeared herself to a host of young
people to whom she has always been
strongly attached, though many of them
have passed on before her. She was bap-
tized at nine years of age in the Mississippi
River at Nauvoo. At the time of the exo-
dus from Illinois, her mother who had
never been accustomed to any hardships
(until leaving her home in the East) was
taken sick and died a martyr to the cruel
persecutions of the Saints. The eldest
daughter immediately assumed the duties
of a little mother to the children of the
household; and all through that toilsome
journey to the encampment on the Missouri
River (now called Florence) she faithfully
performed her duty for her father and the
little ones.
	About six months after the death of Mrs.

[Column 2]
Spencer, Elder Orson Spencer was called
on a mission to Great Britain and the little
daughter took charge of the family crossing
the plains, assisted by such help in domestic
cares as could be furnished by those who
were like herself journeying towards the
valley of the Great Salt Lake. Here she
fulfilled the same duties until the return of
her father from his mission to Europe.
	In March 1850 Miss Spencer was united
in marriage to Hiram B. Clawson a very
popular young man in Salt Lake at that
time, and since then well known here and
elsewhere in mercantile and business affairs.
He has been for several years past bishop
of the Twelfth ward of this city. Mrs. 
Clawson has been the mother of fourteen
children, nine of whom are still living, and
she has numerous grandchildren. She was
almost idolized by her own family, which
cannot be wondered at when one considers
how particularly unselfish her whole life
has been. Although extremely diffident in
all public affairs, yet because of her intense
devotion to her religion, she accepted a
position that brought her into prominence
in women’s organizations. In April, 1879,
she was elected to preside over the Primary
Association in the Twelfth ward, and June
19, 1880, she was called and set apart at a
Conference held in the Assembly Hall in
this city, to preside over the Primary Asso-
ciation in the Salt Lake Stake. This of-
fice she has filled with honor and to the
entire satisfaction of all interested parties
ever since. She had a particular gift in this
direction, and with her Counselors has
traveled in this Stake, organizing and en-
couraging the labors of the sisters and the
advancement of the children as much as
possible for sixteen years. She is greatly
beloved by the children all through this
Stake of Zion, and wherever she is known.
	Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson was a member of
the Reapers Club from its first organization
and a regular attendant until her delicate
health prevented, but came occasionally
since her first serious illness, always indeed
whenever she felt able. To the writer she
often spoke of her interest in the club work
and her desire to keep in touch with the
topics of the times, and to make such ad-
vancement along all lines as would better
qualify her to do good to all humanity. In
the best sense of the word Sister Clawson
was a true philanthropist and possessed that
sweet charity “that thinketh no evil.”
Looking over the large list of names of
members of the Reapers Club, we find that
Ellen C. Clawson is the first one whose
death has caused a vacancy, out of about
sixty names that have been enrolled since
it was first organized, Oct. 3, 1892.
	Her loss will be deeply felt in the commu-
nity where she has labored so faithfully, as
well as by her own particular friends and
family. The writer herself feels deeply the
loss of her society and friendship, but fully
realizes that her lovely character, her pure
life, her integrity to the Gospel, have en-
titled her to the exaltation for which she
lived and sacrificed, and that her joy now is
beyond expression. Jesus said “It hath not
entered into the heart of man to conceive
the glory our Father hath in store for them
that love him.”
	Therefore, we should all be reconciled
when one of our number departs who has
“fought the good fight and kept the faith,”
knowing she has worked out for herself "a
far more exceeding and eternal weight of
glory,” in the celestial kingdom.

[Column 3]
"THOU art not with the frozen dead
	Whom earth in the earth we lay,
While the bearers softly tread,
	And the mourners kneel and pray;
From thy semblance dumb and stark.
	The soul has taken its flight—
Out of the finite dark, 
	Into the Infinite light."


WOMAN’S DAY AT SALTAIR.

	THE Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake
and the Women of the State arranged for an
excursion to Saltair on Tuesday, August
20. The affair was in the hands of a com-
mittee of women represented by Mrs. M. I.
Horne, President of the Relief Society of
Salt Lake Stake, and Mrs. E. B. Wells Pre-
sident of the State Suffrage Association. The
day was not very satisfactory even though the
Carnival of Madrid was well advertised,
and consequently many who had intended
to patronize the ladies did not attend; how-
ever there was quite a good-sized gathering
and a rather pleasing program of exercises,
though one of the distinguished gentlemen
who was expected to speak disappointed
the audience by his absence, Judge W. H.
King. The exercises commenced at 5 p.
m. General John Q. Cannon acting as
Master of Ceremonies, called the assembly
to order and announced prayer by Sister
Zina D. H. Young, who then offered an
eloquent prayer, and next came the Pream-
ble and Sentiments by ladies in different
parts of the state, a part of which were
read by General Cannon in a clear distinct
voice, followed by the Governor whose re-
marks to the women of the state are given
here.
 PREAMBLE.
	IN all the years past since the pioneers enter-
ed this then barren, desert valley, years full
of startling episodes and thrilling incidents,
woman has fulfilled her part of the pro-
gramme equally with man, and has emulat-
ed the noble example of the heroic pilgrim
mothers of New England, in bearing the
burdens and sharing the toil of the men
who have made the “desert blossom as the
rose,” and after many years of patient
struggle and endurance have at last suc-
ceeded in establishing a great common-
wealth, ranking equal with other states in
this free Republic, aud in one respect
surpassing all, except Wyoming and Colo-
rado, in according to women equal suffrage
with men. Thus has a new era opened up
for woman. She has now entered into her
land of promise; the eyes of the world are turn-
ed hither to see what the women of Utah will
do with this boasted right, the ballot. We
must not disappoint our friends or gratify
our opponents by our indifference or neglect,
but show our true patriotism in this hour
of our country’s greatest need. We should
prove worthy the sublime confidence re-
posed in us by those valiant men, who
championed our cause in the memorable
Constitutional Convention of 1895.
	We cannot too strongly urge upon wo-
men voters the grave responsibility
devolving upon them in the present condi-
tion of affairs in our state and nation, and
entreat them to come proudly forward and
take part in the struggle for right now be-
ing agitated, by casting their votes and us-
ing their utmost influence to maintain the
principles of justice, freedom and liberty,
our noble inheritance from our revered fore-


[Column 1]
fathers, according to their honest convic-
tions of right and wrong.
SENTIMENTS
	THE sacred right, but at the same .time
privilege, of the franchise has been obtained
by the women of Utah.
	We are watched by three classes of men
and women. By the cynic who expects
that we will make but a poor use or, per-
chance, no use at all of it, by the timid
women who fear for “the consequences”,
and by earnest women of many states who
look to us to vindicate their hopes and as-
pirations. And deeper down in the heart
of things there is the great need for the
good, pure resolute women of these United
States to rise in their might and help right
the deplorable condition of our country!
Let every woman voter in Utah feel her
responsibility and study the questions at
issue, and then vote her convictions.

	WOMAN’S domestic qualities will in no
sense deteriorate because of her political
equalities; she will lose none of her woman-
ly wifely attributes; her influence will be
exerted to purify the political atmosphere
and secure a rigorous enforcement of all
just laws, and an equally prompt repeal of
obnoxious ones.
	The female pioneer element, which is
largely represented in this state, now as in
days of old, developes the noblest womanly
characteristics, and already is observed a
marked independence of action and charact-
er which is seldom found in older civiliza-
tions where fashion and social distinction
rule with autocratic sway.

	The franchise is one of the highest privi-
leges granted to the individual under a free
government. If to vote is one of the great-
est privileges, is it not then a sacred duty
which no woman who desires the sanctity
of her home protected, the right to life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness, sus-
tained and preserved inviolate, both of her
loved ones and herself, will neglect to per-
form? It is now an imperative obligation
devolving upon the women of Utah, to en-
courage, teach and sustain each other in
voting intelligently for honest efficient
officers, who will labor unswervingly for
the best interest of the people trusting
them with the affairs of state, county or
city. 
	Whether women purify the ballot or not
remains to be seen; but most certainly they
will add an element tending to greater per-
fection, the same as exemplified in the
family, which is the unit of government.
	A one sided organization only half per-
forms the work; when the other half is
added it rounds out into a perfect whole.
	If the study of politics is the main work of
women’s clubs from now until November,
a more determining vote for the good
of the whole country will be polled than
ever before in Utah. Women all rise to
the hight of your privileges!

	A victory gained for a great principle if
barren of results, is more to be deplored
than defeat; for defeat leads to renewed
effort, while victory followed by apathy
and indifference, is like Dead Sea Fruit and
the Apples of Sodom. If the women of
Utah who one year ago were earnestly de-
manding and striving for the right of suf-
frage, now sit down supinely and fold their
hands and say, “We have the ballot, we

[Column 2]
will vote but beyond that will take no fur-
ther interest in politics”, they are not
worthy of the rights of citizenship in a
growing state or great nation.  
	The acceptance of the position and privi-
leges of a citizen carries with it the obliga-
tions and responsibilities of citizenship, and
in my opinion, it is the duty of every wo-
man, not only to vote, but inform herself
on the vital issues of the day, and acquaint
herself thoroughly with the great principles
that uplift and benefit humanity, and un-
derlie all correct legislation, good govern-
ment and true prosperity. Having done
this for herself, I believe she is then bound
by her duty to the state and nation to dis-
seminate those principles, and to see, as far
as she can assist them, that all other women
within her reach, vote and understand what
they are voting for. It is only through the
efforts and influence of women alive to
their duties and responsibilities that the
state or nation will be benefited by wo-
man’s enfranchisememt.

	I think we have had a great privilege
granted us in having the franchise at such
an important time, when great political
questions are confronting us as at the pre-
sent. When we as citizens of this great
Republic, will feel in duty bound to take
part in the great issues that lie before us;
and may we do so conscientiously according
to our convictions of right, and strive with
all diligence to understand our duties and
the great responsibilities that rest upon us
as citizens of this great Republic, as well as
of our own fair state of Utah.
	We know we are on the eve of a great
financial crisis; its importance we can only
realize in part; how it will end the Lord
only knows. We must use the wisdom of
Solomon, aided by the Spirit of the Lord to
direct us that we may be on His side, then
we need not fear what the result would be.
	I often think of the reply that President
Joseph Smith made to Senator Douglas
when he asked him how he managed to
govern the people. He said he taught
them correct principles and let them govern
themselves.
	That is what we want today, to under-
stand the correct principles that underlie
our Government. It is this lack of know-
ledge with us as a people that I fear at this
time when there is so much at stake. We
have never had such a responsibility resting
upon us before, as the privilege of voting
for the highest official of this great Com-
monwealth; and may we give this question
and every other, that due deliberation, that
we may vote intelligently upon all ques-
tions that come before us, even holding it
as a sacred trust that can be neither bought
nor sold for any consideration. And may
we always have reason to be grateful to
those who worked so faithfully that we
might enjoy political freedom.
GOVERNOR HEBER M. WELLS.
	We are making history rapidly What-
ever future centuries may bring forth, they
must concede to the Nineteenth, that it
revolutionized the world industrially, polti-
ically and religiously.
	Freedom of thought and action was
never so great as now, the yoke of religious
creed or despotic government never so far
removed or successfully repelled, the main-
tainance of human liberties never so well
sustained.
	What wonder then, that this progressive

[Column 3]
age of human enlightenment should witness
the breaking forth of women from the
chrysalis of exclusive domesticity into ac-
tive participation in Government affairs,
and that man’s assumption of the right to
vote and govern, without consultation with
his equal and natural partner and compan-
ion, should be relegated to the past.
	The women of Utah are to be congratu-
lated upon their accession to the rights of
American citizens. To attain these rights
Herculean work has been performed; wo-
men, themselves, as well as men have had
to be converted to the cause, strong antipa-
thies and prejudices have had to be over-
come in both, and only the most persistent
and determined effort could have accom-
plished so much in comparatively so short
a time.
	The credit of this great work belongs to
the women of Utah, for whom no words
of commendation can be misplaced. Their
reward is great for they now enjoy many
privileges that are vouchsafed to but com-
paratively few women of our country.
They will not be content with this, how-
ever, as their cause is too great to permit of
their resting satisfied with merely local
advantages—it is the enfranchisement of
half the Nation, the better half—they are
contending for, and no doubt, the influence
of the women of Utah will be felt in behalf
of “Woman Suffrage” until the last woman
in this broad land shall have been enfran-
chised.
	History will record you among the pion-
eers of this great work, and the memory of
your good deeds will live after you.
	After the Governor’s address W. C. Dun-
bar delighted the audience with selections
upon his Highland bagpipes, and was
warmly applauded. Senator Frank J.
Cannon made a thrilling speech in which
he dwelt strongly upon the present condi-
tion of the masses of the people here and
in the United States, and paid a glowing
tribute to the women of Utah, their cour-
age, integrity and patient endurance of
toil and hardship, and cited incidents in
the life and experience of the General
President of the Relief Society, making a
pathetic picture and extoling her virtues
and excellence of character. No greater or
more eloquent compliment could be paid
to a mother in Israel. We expected his
remarks in brief to publish, but hope now
to have them for the next issue of the
paper.
	Miss Webster’s skipping-rope dance
came next and was very pretty and grace-
ful and in perfect time. Miss Webster is
quite a favorite wherever she appears.
The bagpipes were introduced again and
were as welcome as at first. Then followed
a further reading of sentiments and resolu-
tions.

	THIS is our sentiment: Woman, the
equal of man, and the crowning glory of
the celestial kingdom.

	I think that as women are amenable to
the laws of our state and bear equally the
responsibilities with men, woman should
also share in all the privileges accorded to
men, not only in voting, but in holding
offices of honor, emolument and trust suit-
able to their sex.

	IN my judgment the women of Utah,
having been given the elective franchise,
would do well to read the editorial and


[Column 1]
political portions of our own state press,
which not only has the welfare of the peo-
ple of the state in view, but is as patriotic
as any portion of our national press; and
they should endeavor to post themselves
upon the questions that are to be settled by
the ballot, and in voting should be guided
more by judgment and principle than by
partisanship.

	FOR a long time I have been in favor of
suffrage. I believe it will be the means of
elevating us. Woman can accomplish
more than man if she is prepared for the
work. She can have statesmen born and
raised under her influence so that they can
become a power in the land. I believe
there is a need for such men, and it can
never be accomplished while women are
considered inferior to men. I don’t see
why we cannot understand the political
situation of our country. I am convinced
that if we are united we can do a great
deal of good towards elevating our race.

	HAVING, after a long struggle, gained
the right of suffrage, I think it becomes
our duty as citizens of the new state of
Utah, to arouse from our lethargy and use
all our energy and the intelligence God has
given us to study the best way to use this right
not only in this state but also in the nation,
and also use our influence in getting them
to see the necessity of the same.
	Statistics show that a large percent of the
women in the United States are self-sup-
porting.
	They are expected to pay taxes and help
support the Government. This being the
case should they not take an interest in
national affairs? “Taxation without repre-
sentation is tyranny.”
	I would like to ask you gentlemen
and ladies, if the franchise rightly used,
will not tend to morally revolutionize our
government and place it on that grand un-
selfish, unintriguing political platform that
was presented to us by our forefathers.

	WE ought to be alive to the best interest
of the country. We want silver restored to
its full value (sixteen to one) that we can
pay our debts from the products of our
farm's without selling real estate. We
ought to let all other considerations be as
minor ones until that is accomplished, then
see that our laws are carried out, or some
of them mended, and not leave the law in
the hands of men that will not carry them
out, there are thousands of cases where
justice sleeps, and I for one am tired of it.
Can we as women sit by and see such out-
rages commited and not say anything about
it? I say out with such men!
	Let us have honorable men and women
for our officers, and see to it that we get
them. Don’t let us shirk our duties. See
that all women are registered and vote, and
also attend our Primaries. Keep abreast of
the times; stand for our rights and do not
be daunted. These are some of my views
also the most of the women that I am ac-
quainted with. They seem to be waking
up—the women of Utah—to their rights.

	EVERY person of observation who has
noticed the great strides every nation is
making in more humane and liberal govern-
ment. has also noticed the rapid advance-
ment of women throughout the world.
Co-eval with all greatness among nations,
comes the God-given liberty of women.

[Column 2]
Just as the misty clouds of superstition and
fogyism about woman’s sphere gives way
to the scearch-light of truth, will she take
her place politically, and will not only take
her place, but man will willingly recognize
it, learning at last that all their interests are
one. Now that equal suffrage has been
granted to the women of Utah, the obsta-
cles raised by our opponents have all melted
away. Everything works in harmony, and
all seem perfectly satisfied. Ladies who
declared they would never exercise the
franchise, are today enthusiastic over the
great questions that are holding the atten-
tion of the nation, and are ready to cast
their ballots. I see nothing discouraging,
but believe the little stone of Woman Suf-
frage set rolling here in the West will yet fill
the whole earth.

	I think the status of the women in the
new state is very good and is destined to
place woman upon the high elevation des-
tined by her Creator; nor will the true
woman of the state fill less her domestic
relations as a wife and mother because she
has a right estimate of her position and new
responsibilities. She will preserve her
self respect and dignity in her new position
as in her home life, and seek with true
nobility to refine and purify the political
and moral atmosphere.
	The influence of woman is the same
everywhere. Her condition influences the
morals and character of the people in the
community of which she is a member. The
granting of the franchise to women shows
the political status of the people. The wo-
men of the new state asked many times for
this great boon ere it was again bestowed;
and having received it again, I have no
fears that she will abuse this great blessing,
nor transcend the proper limits of womanly
dignity, but by study and thought prove
herself the intellectual peer of her brother
man. Her education is extended; her
knowledge is increased; she is proving her
capabilities to grasp and understand, and
discuss the leading questions of the day as
intelligently as the majority of the other
sex. In many cases her conceptions are
clearer, while her opportunities are increas-
ing and her field of labor widening, I feel
assured she will prove herself equal to the
occasion. I think the women of the new
state will prove to our opponents and the
world at large, that we do appreciate the
franchise, by studying the political issues
of the day and voting for men and measures
that are best calculated to advance the in-
terests of all mankind. Therefore, in my
humble opinion, the granting of the fran-
chise or equal suffrage, has raised the status
of the women In the new state materially
and will eventually prove a great blessing
not only to herself, but to future genera-
tions. Let the good work go on until all
women shall receive the same blessing that
the women of Utah now enjoy, by using
and not abusing this great boon.
RESOLUTIONS.
	WHEREAS, The constitution of the state
provides that the rights of citizens of the
state of Utah to vote and hold office shall
not be denied or abridged on account of
sex; and
	WHEREAS, Experience has taught us
that by woman’s entering into the profes-
sions of law, medicine and teaching, those
professions have been raised to a higher
place; that by her admission to the colleges
and universities of our country the moral

[Column 3]
tone of our institutions of learning has been
elevated and the standard of scholarship ad-
vanced; that by the product of her brain
and pen the progress of the whole human 
race has been promoted; that in the limited
opportunities offered her she has demonstrat-
ed her capacity to grasp governmental
questions and her ability to solve them; to
be equal to that of her male contemporaries;
and
	WHEREAS, Woman possesses in a very
high degree the power to reform, ennoble
and purify every organization of a religious,
social or political nature; now, therefore, be
it
	RESOLVED, That it is the duty of every
woman of the state possessing the requisite
qualifications, to enter into active political
work, to the end that our new privileges
may be exercised in behalf of pure govern-
ment.
	RESOLVED, That we agree to identify
ourselves with the political party that is the
best exponent of our political ideas, and
that we will participate in the Primaries and
Conventions of our respective parties as well
as vote upon election day that our voice
may be heard in formulating our party’s
policy, and that candidates may be nomi-
nated worthy of our support.
	RESOLVED, That we extend our hearty
greetings to our sister voters of the neigh-
boring states of Wyoming and Colorado and
we express the desire that ere long the
people of our whole nation may recognize 
the inestimable blessings conferred upon the 
body politic by the admission of man and
his helpmate, woman, to equal political
privileges.
	(Signed.)
ELIZABETH J. MCFARLANE.
MRS. J. FEWSON SMITH,
ETIZABETH M. PRICE,
				Committee.
FINAL RESOLUTION.
	RESOLVED, That the women of Utah
take the heartiest interest in all organiza-
tions tending to ameliorate the condition of 
women throughout the world.
	That they recognize the great education-
al work of the Federation of Clubs, and will
as far as they are able, co-operate with
them.
	That they sympathize with the persecut-
ed inhabitants of Armenia, and call upon
the nation to show their interest by gener-
ous contributions to a starving nation.
	Mrs. Elizabeth J. McFarlane was intro
duced and recited a very appropriate
selection in a most pleasing style. The
address was entitled “To Our Brothers.’’


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


EDITORIAL NOTES.

	The Relief Society of the Salt Lake
Stake will hold their Quarterly Conference
on Saturday, September 19, in the Assem-
bly Hall in this city, meetings commencing
as usual at 10 a. m. and at 2 p. m. It is
desired there should be as large an atten-
dance as possible from the members of the
society throughout the city and county
and that each Presidemt be present, for
send an authorized representative. The
public are cordially invited.
	The Woman’s Co-operative Store has
been removed from Main St. to the Nauvoo
Building, on First South St., West, where
they have commodious sales-rooms, and


have also been purchasing new good; and
are very desirous of the patronage of the
ladies. The store makes a speciality of its
millinery and of burial clothing. The sis-
ters of the Relief Society and others would
do well to call before purchasing elsewhere,
as it is hoped the store will be a success
even though the times are a little hard.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


U. W. P. C.

	IN response to the kindly invitation of
Mrs. Rachel Miller, the members of the
Press Club met at her residence, July 31,
1896 President E. B, Wells called the
meeting to order and prayer was offered by
Mrs. Lizzie Wilcox. The roll was called
and presence signified by poetic sentiments.
Lengthy minutes of the interesting June
meeting were read and approved. Mis-
cellaneous business being next in order the
president reported the completion of pay-
ment to the Federation, and proposed the
name, of Mrs. Mary J. Lambert, and Mrs.
R. S. Miller the name of Martha Miller as
members of the U. W. P. C. The motion
was put and carried. In accordance with
our president’s oft repeated wish that our
club should have a critic, Mrs. E. J. Mc-
Vicker was proposed by Miss S. L. Monroe
as critic. The motion was carried
unanimously. The nominee very modest-
ly expressed thanks for the honor, and said
sheould try to exercise discretion in this
duty, and desired all to feel free to criticise
the critic. A discussion then followed on
the pronunciation of the word “program”,
and all were advised to “look it up.” Mrs.
L. D. Alder then read an original poem en-
titled “Left unfinished.” President E. B.
Wells then read a letter from Susan B.
Anthony advising the Utah women as to
their duties in voting, and the advisability
of their holding office. Mrs. I. C. Brown
entertained the club with reminiscences of
Washington life, dwelling upon the social
and domestic qualities of President Cleve-
land and his beautiful wife and lovely
children. Mrs. L. S. Wilcox, by request,
read a poem written by Dr. Orielle Curtis
entitled “Friends of the Press Club.” The
meeting was then adjourned for one month
and closed with prayer by E. W. Hyde.
	After this our hostess and her fair
daughters served most delicious refresh-
ments, flitting in and out of the brilliantly
lighted parlors, in their airy summer cos-
tumes, making a picture long to be remem-
bered.
		ELLIS R. SHIPP. Rec. Sec.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

Friday, Nov. 22, 1895
	AFTER breakfast carriages were ordered for
the Roman Forum. We were to tread the
ruins, “Each memorable spot, where Ro-
mulus stood, Tully spoke and Caesar fell.”
We left the carriages at the Capitol, which
is 160 ft. above sea level, by the ground
staircase. La Cordounata, which in its
present form dates from 1536; at its foot
are two lions of Egyptian porphyry; at its
head the colossal statues of Castor and Pol-
lux; beyond these the sculptures, “mis-
named” the Trophies of Marius, and the
statue of Constantine, and his son, the
open space here, the ancient Intermoun-
train where Brutus harangued the people
after the murder of Caesar. In the center

[Column 2]
the only perfect ancient equestrian statue is
of Marcus Aurelius. On the right is the
palace of the Conservatori, on the left the
Museum of the Capitol, both designed by
Michael Angelo. The Palace of the Sena-
tor is on the site of the Tabularium, a build-
ing used tor the state Archives, and is a
combination of the vaulted roof and the
arch; the fountain at the foot is adorned
with statues of the river-gods, the Tiber
and the Nile. The tower contains the great
bell, rung only to announce the carnival, or
the death of a Pope.
	Descending on the south side, we reach
the Roman Forum, an open place where
Courts were held. The street “Via Lacra”
divided the Temples from the public mar-
ket place. Mr. Mc V. gave us a lecture
upon Roman Archaeology, beginning with
Ancient Rome and the Hellenic Period,
until the present time. Enough of the
ruins remain to tell of the splendor of the
buildings; there are massive stone remains
of the orator’s tribune, erected by Julius
Caesar, facing the Capitol is the Temple of
Caesar, near which Caesar had erected a
new oratorical tribune; from this tribune at
the funeral of the murdered dictator, Mark
Antony pronounced his celebrated ora-
tion.
	We stood where Virginius stood when he
killed his daughter to save her honor. We
were deeply interested in Plazza Ara Coeli.
On sight of the Temple of Jupiter Capito-
lenus, the tradition is, Augustus erected an
altar to commemorate the prophecy of the
Delphic Sibyl, respecting the birth of
Jesus.
	On the central spot where the flight of
steps leading to the Capitol joins the flight
of steps leading to the Church, on these
steps, when a Pagan Temple, the priests
(133 B C) thrust out Tiberius Gracchus,
who sought sanctuary here, and was killed
by the Patrician mob. Fifteen hundred
years later, the Temple had become a
Christian Church, the priests barred the
doors against Rienzi, who died there cover-
ed by a hundred wounds. Julius Caesar is
said to have descended these steps on his
knees after his victories in Gaul and Brit-
ian. One could spend months agreeably
in these magnificent ruins. While looking
at the Colosseum “The great Flavian
Amphitheatre of Imperial Rome,” one
friend remarked to me “What mattered it
that all this splendor was buried under the
ashes of Vesuvius?”
	We returned to our carriages. I am al-
ways interested in people, during our drives
the people, beggars and donkeys amuse me
immensely. The streets too are pictur-
esque, with their washing hanging from
the windows; while I would not adopt the
custom, I admire it here. Our destination
was the Vatican Palace, on Vatican Hill.
(The hill not included in Ancient Rome.)
The Vatican has been the official residence
and palace of the Popes since the 15th Century.
The outside does not impress one as splen-
did. We secured tickets of admission,
passed the guards, (Italian solders) whose
costume and hats with feathers drooping
over the right shoulder, I had only seen in
Opera or a picture, up the immense flight
of steps to the entrance of this remarkable
building with its 11,000 rooms, fronting
and inclosing twenty different courts; it
contains much architectural display in the
building on the courts, and in the interior
of halls and galleries, and is noted for its
wall paintings, which we were to see first.

[Column 3]
Crossing one long hall and going to an
open window, we had a fine view, and
breathed in the delicious odors from the
gardens of the Pope; the walks were broad
and lined with flowers; there the orange
and citron grew, the grounds were so
beautiful and bright, we judged he must
pass much time in them and hoped to catch
sight of him, but they told us, now, he is
seldom seen there, being too feeble; his
kitchen garden (as they call them in Eng-
land) showed perfect order, and every good 
thing growing.
	In all the rooms were artists busy; I
lingered near one who seemed fond of
copying Fra Angelico’s celestial creatures;
they are gorgeous in robes of gold and
green, in gold and scarlet with radiant
wings, their faces turned heavenward, and
holding trumpets, and shown sometimes
seem to be sounding the key-note. He is
the only artist, so an Italian told me, who
paints on a gold background; he with
Raphael and Murillo, are called the “Paint-
ers of Heaven” but Angelico’s required
study ere I saw their extreme beauty. We
passed rapidly along the Sistine Chapel,
built in 1473; it is 133 ft, long and 45 ft.
wide. The side walls are adorned by such
artists as Perugins, Signorelli, Potticelli
and Ghirlandajo, a Florentine; one of his
was “The calling of the Apostles on the
Lake of Genesarath.”
	The entire ceiling is covered with the
renowned frescoes of Michael Angelo, be-
ginning with the Creation of Light, the
Sun and Moon, Separating the waters from
the land, Creation of Adam and Eve, the
fall and expulsion, the Deluge etc., the
angels Jessie, Asa, Esechias, Josiah, Zara-
bable, Hosea and others. On the altar is
his great fresco “The Last Judgment”,
which he painted many years later and
which occupied him seven years. It is
considered marvelous. All the pictures
have suffered from dampness and incense.
My first impression was disappointment,
but they handed me a mirror which
brought the paintings nearer, and they
began to look beautiful and interesting.
The Loggie of Raphael, are corridors dec-
orated by Raphael and his pupils, “Joseph
interpreting Pharaoh’s Dream”, Raphael
and Ginlio Romano, “Temptation of
Adam and Eve” by the same, “Moses
saved from the Nile”, “Meeting of Jacob
and Rachel” by Raphael and other pupils.
The Stanza, are a series of rooms with
frescoes by Raphael; one the most famous,
“School of Athens”; all are famous but
faded and defaced. It is useless to try and
write minutely of the beautiful and wonder-
ful things we saw. The Museum of
Sculpture contains the largest collection of
classical statuary in Europe; most of the
pieces are Roman copies of Greek originals.
We were anxious to see the Apollo Bel-
videre, Laocoon and some others we had
heard so much of, but we left this and the
Etruscon and Egyptian museums, until
another day. The tapestries are fine,
and the Ancient maps in Golleria Geogra-
fica. The library is famous. In connec-
tion with the library is an immense
collection of gems and objects of art, pre-
sented to different Popes. We just walked
through it, looking only at a few things
as it would take months to see all.
	The Picture Gallery contains choice
paintings among which are Raphael’s
“Transfiguration” and “Madonna del
Foliguo” she and the infant are up in the


clouds with angels all about them. There
are paintings by Murillo so famous for his
perfect flesh tints, and Domenichino’s
masterpiece of the "Last Communion of
St. Jerome” and the lovely “Madonna del
Resario” by Sassoferrati; she and the infant
Jesus are enthroned in the clouds, her feet
resting on the crescent, with angels all
about them. We now visited the Barber-
ino Palace to see Reni Guido’s “Beatrice
Cenci.” I always thought her’s the sweet-
est face, but heard it written up as baby
face, so judged it might not be all I im-
agined; but it is indeed beautiful, and those
eyes—well I have seen sick babies when
easy for a moment after intense suffering,
look up with just that expression. The
other one where her lawyer is urging her
to confess and end the torture, looks just as
I imagine (after seeing the rack) one would
look, having endured its exquisite torture.
	We now drove outside the gates along
the Appian Way. “And from thence,
when the brethren heard us, they came to
meet us as far as Appii-forum, and The
Three Taverns, whom when Paul saw he
thanked God and took courage.” Acts,
28 chapter, 15 verse. And a delightful
drive it is; when as far as the “Three
Taverns” we returned, going into the
Catacombs of St. Calixtus, original palace
of Sepulture of Saint Cecilia. We entered
the chapel where a priest gave us lighted
tapers, then showing us some sacred relics,
among them the print of the Savior’s foot-
steps in the sand, we began to descend,
with the solemn warning to all keep to-
gether near the priest, as so many had been
lost forever. Everything was so awe-in-
spiring and this filled us with fear, as we
filed along through the narrow passes
which were a perfect maze, and so short,
and the turnings so numerous; and when
you know they are thousands of miles,
and ever so many stories under ground,
you may judge we obeyed orders. We saw
the blood of the martyrs and their bones,
the slabs of marble which told who lay
buried there; the turtle dove and branch of
laurel indicated a young girl. We saw the
turning where the Christians used to con-
fuse the soldiers when they came to take
them. There were two turnings side by
side, and of course the soldiers ran down
the first; that was the last of them thank
God! All breathed a sigh of relief when
we reached the outside, and were thankful
we lived in this 19th Century. I have been
told the burning of so many candles in the
Catholic Church is emblematic of the time
when they dare not read the Bible openly,
and sought sanctuary in those old tombs.
	Driving home via the Corso,—a most
beautiful street at night; we were cheered
at dinner with singing and music.
KIM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
THE APOSTLE PETER WEPT. 

	AND why did he weep? Was it not be-
cause he saw the prophecy of our Savior
fulfilled to the very letter? Yes he had
denied his Lord three times as Jesus said he
would, after telling him that “Satan de-
sires to sift thee as wheat, but I have pray-
ed for thee that thy faith fail not; and when
thou art converted, strengthen thy breth-
ren.”—St. Luke, 22 chapter, 32 verse.
	But Peter did not comprehend these 
words for his reply was: “Lord I am ready
to go with thee, both into prison and to
death.” How could his Lord doubt his

[Column 2]
love for Him? But what was His reply?
He said: “I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall
not crow this day, before that thou shalt
thrice deny that thou knowest me.”—Luke,
22 chapter, 34 verse.
	And in the 35th verse He said unto them:
“When I sent you without purse and scrip
and shoes, lacked ye many things?” They
said: “No nothing.”
	Then said He unto them: “But now he
that hath a purse let him take it, and like-
wise his scrip; and he that hath no sword,
let him sell his garment and buy one.”
	“For I say unto you that which is writ-
ten, must yet be accomplished in me, for
the things concerning me have an end.”
	“And they said unto Him, “Lord we
have two swords.” And He said unto them
“It is enough.” 38th verse the same chap.
	“He then withdrew from them about a
stone’s throw, and kneeled down and pray-
ed, and when He arose from prayer He
found them sleeping.” 
	“He said unto them, “Why sleep ye?
Arise and pray, lest ye enter into tempta-
tion.”
	“While he yet spoke behold a multitude,
and Judas was one of them, and drew near
to Jesus to kiss Him. But Jesus said unto
him, “Judas betrayest thou the Son of
man with a kiss?”
	“Then said one of His disciples “Shall
we smite with the sword?” At this mo-
ment one of them smote the servant of the
high priest, and cut off his right ear. Je-
sus answered and said: “Suffer ye thus far”
and He touched his ear and healed him.”
	Luke 22nd chapter, 50th to 60th verse.
Peter said: “Man I know not what thou
sayest” and while speaking the cock crew;
and the Lord turned and looked upon
Peter, and Peter remembered the words of
Jesus and he went out and wept bitterly.”
	Here we see that the sieve was a profi-
table lesson to the Apostle Peter. Here he
learned the difference between the spirit of
the Gospel and that of the world.
	After the spirit of the world left him,
then our Savior’s words were vividly im-
pressed and rushed to his memory, bringing
greater love for the Lord and Master than
he ever experienced in doubt. Did he hear
the high priest ask, as written in Mark,
14th chapter, and part of verse 61, “Art
thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?”
And Jesus said: “I am, and ye shall see
the Son of man sitting on the right hand of
power, and coming in the clouds of hea-
ven.”
	"Watch ye therefore, and pray always,
that ye may be accounted worthy to escape
all these things that shall come to pass and
stand before the Son of man.”
					ZION'S CONVERT


THE Chicago Civic Federation has an-
nounced its intention to concentrate its
efforts on two important objects—the prose-
cution of city employees who are systematic-
ally robbing the city treasury, and the election
of State legislators who will give Chicago
new reform measures.
	THE twenty-fourth Congress of Women
will be held in St. Johns, New Burnswick,
Sep. 16, 17 and 18. Members of the A. A.
W. expecting to attend should write at once
to Mrs W. H. Tuck, Orange Street, St.
Johns, N. B., in order to receive names and
addresses of their hostesses.


“Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe never
ceased to believe that women were needed
in government as truly as in the family,
and ought to be clothed with the same polit-
cal rights and charged with the same polit-
cal duties as men.”
	Western Womanhood of Fargo, North De-
kota edited and published by Mary A. Whe-
don comes out in a new and attractive form
with its third volume. It is a general wo-
man’s paper—confined to no single hobby,
but concerning woman’s work in the home
and out—probably the only journal in the
West giving an outlook over such a broad
field. W. C. T. U., Equal Suffrage,
Home, Children, School Room, Sunday
school, all have their part and place. The
leading page contains a delightful picture
and sketch of Mrs. Ella Knowles Haskell,
of Montana, the first and only lady Assist-
ant Attorney General in this country.


DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
Instructor in the School of Ob-
stetrics and Nursing.
	The winter session opens Oct. 12, 1896 with
greatly improved facilities for education in this
important branch of study. Reduced prices to
societies. For further information communicate
with Ellis R Shipp M. D., 75 Center St. Salt
Lake City. Telephone 555.

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT will commence
the winter class in midwifery October 7, 1896.
Several situations in small families for board.
Special terms to students sent by the Relief
Society. For further particulars please com-
municate with		Dr. Pratt,
	226 Constitution Bldg., Main Street,
		Salt Lake City, Utah.

LOW RATES TO THE EAST.
	Your attention is directed to the exceptionally
low rates in effect this coming season to nearly
every prominent point in the East.
	Never before has such an excellent opportunity
b en afford d for a  ummer Vacation Tour, or for
visiting friends in the East. We mention below a
few of the places to which greatly reduced rates
have been made. The UNION PACIFIC is the line
that will give you the best service to any of these
points.
Chicago, Ill., July 7. Rate— One fare for the round trip.
Buffalo, N. Y., July 7-11. Rate—One fare for the round trip
	plus $2.00.
Washington, D. C., July 7-13. Rate—One fare for the round
	trip.
Milwaukee, Wis., July 16-19. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Omaha, Neb., July 21-24. Rate—One and one-third fare on
	certificate plan.
St Louis, Mo., July 22. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Omaha, Neb., August 16-24. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
Cleveland, Ohio, August 23-30. Rate—(Probably) one fare for
	the round trip.
Milwaukee, Wis., Aug. 25-27. Rate—One fare for the round trip.
St. Paul, Min., September 1-4. Rate—One fare for the round
	trip (in some cases less).
	For full information as to dates of sale and limit of tickets,
time of trains, etc., call on
CITY TICKET OFFICE 201 MAIN STREET.
D. E. BURLEY, G. A. P. D.	D. S. TAGGART, T. P. A 
R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St,
SALT LAKE CITY.
The Leading Retail
Cash House,
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations.	41
Vol. 25.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SEPTEMBER 15, 1896.	No 6.


CONTENTS:
	A Few Words About India—Dilbhur. Primary
Report. Ladies’ Semi-monthly Meeting—Zina
Y. Hyde, Secretary. U. W. P. C—Ella W.
Hyde. “September Seventh.”—Lulu. Facts
About Miss Dodge. Leaves From My Journal— 
Kim. Notes And News. In Memoriam. Honor
To A Veteran—L. W. Jones. Reception To The
Ladies Literary Club—D. S. Ought Women
To Want to Vote?
	EDITORIAL:—The Political Outlook. Cannon
Ward Relief Society.
	POETRY:—Thoughts—L. D. Alder. Isle Of The
Beautiful Past—L. M. H. The Mountains—Mrs.
Victoria Alexandra Stone.


[Column 1]
THOUGHTS,

On the death of Mrs. Ellen C. Clawson.
SING, dear one sing, and shout for very joy!
In the world above the stars, where strife cannot
	annoy;
The incense from this lower world, of work so 
	nobly done,
Will rise and bless thee ever, while countless
	ages come. 
Thy heart so full of heavenly joy, shall now be 
	satisfied;
And in His presence thou wilt bask, who for us
	bled and died;
And tho’ we drop the tear of love and sigh that 
	thou art gone,
Yet joy is bubbling uppermost, that thou a crown
	hast won. 
I think of how you humbly stood, and of the 
	Master spoke,—
The echoes in the listeners’ ears, such rapturous
	strains awoke—
The light of angels hovering near, thy trembling
	form embraced,
And “Well beloved of the Lord,” was on each 
	feature traced.
Forget thee? No! Though all thy friends again 
	may meet;
We’ll miss thy saintly face, thy presence calm
	and sweet;
And a sigh of love will rise, from every faithful
	heart,
And a tear of sweet remembrance, from saddened
	eyes will start. 
But O, for thee a glorious day has been revealed
 	to view;
Where Cherubim and Seraphim, and other 
	glories new.
Will greet thy stately entrance, where all the 
	Saints will meet,
As the fragrance rare of flowers most fair, arise
	beneath thy feet.
‘‘Well done!” Come where the rippling waters
	softly flow along;
Where on the ambient air, in triumph sounds the
	victor’s song;
And hear the blessed music, thy heart has 
	yearned to know,
While wandering thro' the darkness, that besets
	us here below. 
Faithful unto death! Thy Covenant vows un-
	broke;
And singing in thy heart the song the Gospel
	sound awoke;

[Column 2]
O, who would shrink the burden, when the crown
	is sure to come;
‘Who bears the cross, will wear the crown,” the
	prophets all have sung. 
And peace doth come when the journey’s o’er—
The warrior must not rest when the battle is be-
	fore!—
But when the victory’s won, the ease is sure to 
	come;
As a well of lasting pleasure are the welcome 
	words ‘‘Well done.”
So, tolling bells ring out a joyous sound!
And tell the gathered Saints who weeping stand
	around,
’Tis well with her, though the world is closed to
	view,
For she has fought the fight, to God has proven
	true. 
Brave hearts, true hearts, who walk the way in
	tears,
And only trace the journey by the slowly, chang-
	ing years,
Be comforted! though strife and sorrow too, be 
	rife;
Hear thro’ the gloom and darkness, “I am the
	Resurrection and the Life.” 
Dear one adieu! adieu! But O, ’twill not be long,
Till we who mourn thee now, must learn the 
	changing song;
For fairer in the East dawns the Resurrection
	morn—
The grave will yield its sleepers up, and of its 
	power be shorn. 
Then in thy snowy robes, gems sparkling on thy
	brow,—
The Past beneath thy feet, and only pleasure
	now,—
Wilt in thy shining mansion, that ever will be
	home,
Throw open wide the portals, and bid thy loved
	ones “Come.”
					LYDIA D. ALDER.
August 25, 1896.
	*At a gathering of the sisters in the home of
the writer on July 2, 1896, while speaking Sister 
Clawson said, “I sing in my heart all the time,
and sometimes I could shout for very joy I feel so
happy; but I never was a singer.”
	On resuming her seat, Sister Zina D. H. Young,
the venerable president of the Relief Society who 
presided at the meeting, uttered the follow-
ing prophetic words, “Sister Clawson, you shall 
sing until your heart is satisfied; you shall 
be one of the sweetest singers when you go beyond
the Veil.”
								L. D. A.


[Column 1]
A FEW WORDS ABOUT INDIA.

	As a rule I think readers are more inter-
ested in details of a foreign country when
given by one who has really visited it, and
personally witnessed the various scenes
depicted. As many years of my life were
spent in India, I shall have great pleasure-
if I can interest you with a few details re-
garding it, its inhabitants and my exper
ences while there.

	I arrived in Calcutta in December 1860,
after a four months’ passage on board a

[Column 2]
sailing vessel, of which my uncle was the
captain. 
	The river Hugli by which Calcutta is
reached is a most dangerous river on ac-
count of its shifting sands, consequently
the pilot who takes charge of the vessel
at the Sand Heads, that is, where the
mouth of the river is entered from the Bay
of Bengal, has men sounding and shouting
out every five minutes the depth of water.
It is always a most exciting time when
entering a foreign port, and Eastern ports
are more especially interesting to those
who have never seen anything but the
Western hemisphere surroundings. The
banks with their strange trees of cocoanut
and palms have a great charm; the houses
with their strange forms and colors, fill the
stranger with curiosity to know what the
interior of such remarkable buildings must 
be, and what the inhabitants are like.
	First we pass Tangir Island where
nobody can live as it is infested with the
largest species of Bengal tigers, and where
many Europeans every year lose their
lives in tiger hunting.
	On sailing up the river the next sight
that interests one in nearing the city is the
residence of the late King of Oude. When
the British took possession of his territory
he was brought to Calcutta and a large
tract of land, together with a handsome
pension was granted to him. The reason
of the forfeiture of his territory I will ex-
plain later on. He has many houses in his
grounds, all of different colors and designs,
where he has an immense harem. He also
keeps thousands of pigeons, and it is most in-
teresting to see them flying about in flocks.
The old man is never allowed to leave Cal-
cutta, and is frequently seen taking a drive
in an old-fashioned carriage attended by
about 20 troopers, natives of course. They are
dirty, badly dressed, badly mounted, are
poor riders and most unsoldierly in appear-
ance. The attendants of a third class circus
in a procession are quite respectable com-
pared with these royal body guards; it is
indeed a relic of departed grandeur. To
give a clear idea of Calcutta to those who
have never seen it is not easy. The city may
be roughly divided into two parts—the
European and the native; though in the
native part some poor Europeans live, and
in the European part some rich natives re-
side. Here are the fine houses that give
Calcutta the name of “The City of
Palaces.”
	They are built of brick and plastered
white, with verandahs and venetians paint-
ed bright green; when clean and the paint
fresh, a Calcutta house is very pretty. The
roofs are mostly flat, and in the evenings
we sit there and chat, dance and generally
enjoy ourselves, for however hot the day
may have been there is nearly always a
pleasant cool breeze from the sea that comes up
the river in the evening, and I assure you it is
enjoyable. There is a fine drive called the
Strand where in the evening may be seen
every imaginable conveyance, as everybody
who can get one takes a drive to see and
be seen—others walk and enjoy the sight
Of the gay dresses, the flirtations, etc., that are


[Column 1]
going on. All the scandal of Calcutta is
discussed on the Strand. There is a small
park with a band stand, and whilst the
band is playing, every item of news is dis-
cussed. If Miss So and So is engaged it is
made known there as she is seen driving
with Mr. So and So for the first time alone,
and Mrs. Grundy is sure it must be so! A
curious feature of Calcutta is the native
part of the town, especially China bazaar,
a row of native shops. When the shops
are open about 10 o’clock, the business of
the day commences; and a lively scene
it is. A stranger is pestered as he walks 
along or his carriage is stopped by the tout
who declares you are certain to get all you
want at his shop, and further that at his
shop you will have honest men to deal with
whilst at all his rivals there are only liars
and rogues. At times they seem as if they
were going to fight, but you need not fear
they are mere words and they have no idea 
of giving offence; in fact if you look back 
after refusing to deal with any of them, you
will see they are having a good laugh to-
gether at your expense. In China bazaars
you can meet with almost everything you
can require, but you will have great diffi-
culty in finding it, and when found, in get- 
ing it at anything like a reasonable price,
especially if you cannot speak the language
and do not understand the customs of the
people. They usually ask about double
what they will take. There is an old say-
ing amongst the Europeans, “Multiply by
2, divide by 4, and then give them a half of
that.” The Balameal Gardens are the
next place I visited. I saw the wonderful
Banyan Tree which is said to be large
enough to shelter 10,000 men. The new
branches of the tree run down until they
touch the ground where they take root and
become supporters and feeders of the older
parts of the tree. There is no reason why
this tree should not in the course of years
spread so that it will cover miles. I have
frequently spent a pleasant day’s picnic un-
der this tree where we have put up curtains
and had a cook-room, kitchen, parlor with
cane chairs and couches, dining-room etc.,
and have had our servants there with every
necessity for the tables which have been
spread on the ground, to satisfy ourselves
very thoroughly, in dancing, racing,
courting, playing hide and seek, and on one
occasion we went down the river in native
boats to the residence of Sir Barnes Peacock,
about forty of us. We were told to be
sure to take to our boats again before 7
o’clock, as we could not turn a certain
point after 8 o'clock as the current in the
Hugli River was very stormy four hours’
in and eight out. However some of the
girls and boys did not attend to the beating
of the gong, and the consequence was
when we reached the point it was found to
be impossible to round it, and there we
had to stay tied up to the bank all night
in open boats, eaten up by mosquitoes
and frightened to death almost by hearing
the owls shriek, the hyenas laugh and
the jackals howl. But we were well se-
cured by strong ropes about 100 yards from
the bank; and I can assure you we were
very glad when the tide turned at 4 o’clock
in the morning and we reached Calcutta in
about an hour and a half, very hungry, as
we had demolished everything before we left
for the boat. In one of the baskets, one of
the gentlemen who was desired to see if
there was anything eatable in them, found a
piece of cheese and a cucumber, which were

[Column 2]
speedily devoured, but no bread or biscuits
or even water; the river water was scarcely
palatable as it is a common thing to see
dead bodies float up and down the river
with great vultures, or adjutants as they
are called, picking at them, and sometimes
the sight is too dreadful to describe.
	Another place of interest on the banks of
the Hugli is the burning ghaul of Kale 
ghaul, as it is called, where the natives
burn their dead. I have frequently sat on
board the ship in the Hugli River and
seen the natives build their pyre and when
ready pour the fat on it and set fire to
it. When hot enough they bring the corpse
down on a charpoi (or bamboo couch made
of strirg and bamboo) and turn it over,
throwing the corpse into the middle of the
burning mass; then begin the howling and
shouting such as only the native Indians
can make. At one time it was the custom
to burn the widow with her husband, but
now it is forbidden by the English law though
doubtless it is done secretly. Until the
law interfered many a child of tender years
who had been married when perhaps four
or five years of age and whose husband
might have been twenty or thirty, and had
died, was thrown into the fire with her hus-
band and burned to death. The cries of
the victim were drowned by the howling
and shouting of the mad fanatics.
Child marriage is still very common; some
girls are married about as soon as born,
where there is some advantage to be derived
from the union.
	Plural marriage is also very general, but
among the poorer natives it is seldom until
the first wife is about 40 when the man takes
another about 15 and the first then becomes
usually a slave to the second, and is very
cruelly treated. The rich natives have
many wives at once, and they are generally
very happy living in the harem together
where they live in great luxury and idle-
ness; but the pour suffer terribly from the
custom.
	As a rule the natives are a quiet, docile
race, and when treated kindly become
greatly attached to their employers. It is
the custom to keep a great number of ser-
vants, eight being the usual staff. Each one
has his or her duties to perform, and if the
mistress is a good manager she can conduct
her house with very little trouble. They
respect a master and mistress who insist
upon each doing his duty, and if they
know they will not be allowed to shirk it,
they will do it faithfully, and have no de-
sire to leave their service. One thing is
imperative on a master and mistress, that is
to keep their word at all times and pay them
honestly and regularly. It is well to treat
them as children; let them see you are
satisfied when they do well, and punish
them if they do wrong. They are keenly
alive to any injustice but ready to acknowl-
edge themselves in the wrong if it is proved
against them. When you have proved
it without doubt they will fall on their
knees and putting their hands together say,
“Put your foot on me,” and after obtaining
forgiveness will serve you well until found
out again. They can be trusted with un-
told gold if they think you know exactly
what you have placed in their care, but
should not like to trust them otherwise.
	There is a kind of freemasonry amongst
them, and they will never tell of one anoth-
er, consequently it is not an easy matter to
find out an offence. Their cunning and
duplicity is most extraordinary; it would

[Column 3]
never enter into the mind of any other race,
I think, to make the excuses and make up
the plausible tale that the native Indian can.
					DILBHUR.


WOMANS EXPONENT


PRIMARY REPORT.
	
UINTAH P. A.
To the Exponent:
	WISHING to be remembered as one of the
Primaries of Zion we send the minutes of
our last Conference to the Exponent.
	Minutes of the Primary Conference of
Uintah Stake of Zion, held at the Stake
House in Vernal, June 1, 1896, President
Abigail Oaks presiding. Singing “Gladly
meeting kindly greeting” opening prayer
offered by second Counselor Roseltha N.
Pearse; singing “Joseph Smith’s First
Prayer.” Minutes of the previous Confer-
ence were read and accepted. Report for
the past year was read, roll called, showing
representatives of seven local officers and
thirteen ward officers.
	Sentiments of President Brigham Young’s
were given in concert by six primary
associations.
	The program was rendered in a pleasing
manner. An essay was given by Charles
Colton “Sketch of President Brigham
Young’s Life.” Sister Annie K. Bartlett
spoke to the children, giving the reason
Primary Conference was held on this day;
that it was in honor of our noble president
who labored so diligently in the cause of
truth; impressed on their minds the value
of being good and following President
Young’s example of obeying the command-
ments of the Lord.
	Vernal Primary answered in concert some
questions on the life of President Young.
The remainder of the program was rendered
in an interesting way. Meeting was ad-
journed until two o’clock p. m.
	The following brethren were present
during the forenoon: President S. R.
Bennion, 2nd Stake Counselor James
Hacking, Bros. Wm. Shaffer, John Timo-
thy, James Gines, I. M. Jones, C. C.
Bartlett, Thomas Bingham and James
Cook. Singing “Nay, speak no ill.”
Benediction by Sister Sarah Colton.
	Afternoon meeting was called to order by
President Oaks. Singing “Day dawn is
breaking;” opening prayer by Maggie
Ambrosen; singing “We Thank Thee O
God for a Prophet.” General officers were
sustained as they were last Conference, and
local officers were unanimously sustained.
Program rendered. An essay on
the life of President Young was given by
Brother O’Niel’s little girl. President Oaks
spoke encouragingly to the children; she
felt grateful for the interest manifested, and
thanked all for their attendance, and especi-
ally those who had taken part, and helped
to make the Conference a success; asked
God to bless all. Conference adjourned
until next September.
	Jenson ward was appointed to lead the
singing the ensuing Conference. Singing,
“Lead us gently Shepherd.” Benediction
by Counselor Annie Hacking.
			ABIGAIL OAKS, President
			ANNIE HACKING,		}Counselors
			ROSELTHA M. PEASE,


A SPECIAL invitation has been extended
to California to take part in an international
horticultural exhibition to be held at Ham-
burg, Germany, in 1897.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


ISLE OF THE BEAUTIFUL PAST.

THERE'S a beautiful Isle in the River of Time,
Where softest of echoes are straying;
And the air is as soft as a musical chime,
On the exquisite breath of tropical clime,
Where sweet summer flowers are swaying.
There’s where Memory dwells with her pure
	golden hue,
And music forever is flowing;
With low murmured tones that come trembling
	thro’
Strangely touching the heart, yet sweeten it too,
As soft zephyrs o’er water when blowing.
There are shadowy halls in that fairy-like isle,
Where pictures of beauty are gleaming;
Yet the light of their eyes, and their sweet sunny
	smile.
Only flash round the heart with a ’wildering wile,
And leave us to feel ’tis but dreaming.
And this fancy-like isle is the Beautiful Past,
Richest treasures are buried there;
There are beings of beauty too lovely to last—
There are fairest of blossoms, with dust o’er them
	cast,
There are tresses and ringlets of hair.
There are fragments of song only memory sings,
And the words of a dear mother’s prayer,
There’s a harp long unsought, and a lute without
	strings—
Hallowed tokens that love used to wear.
*******
From this beautiful isle hands are beckoning us
	there,
And with joy that is almost a pain,
We delight to turn back, and in wandering there,
Thro’ the shadowy halls of this island so fair,
We behold our loved treasures again.
Oh! this isle of the Past, with its phantom-like
	show,
Is a vista exceedingly bright;
And the River of Time in its turbulent flow,
Is oft soothed by the voices we heard long ago,
When our days were a dream of delight.
L. M. H.


THE MOUNTAINS.

BY MRS. VICTORIA ALEXANDRA STONE.
“THE mountains are growing old.”—Talmage.
Are the mountains old? Old, did you say?
	Aye, but when will they be stronger?
For they lift their heads as strong today
	As in the days when they were younger.
in pride they defy the lightning’s wrath,
	And the hoarsely bellowing thunder,
While they cleave a path for the tempest’s breath
	Which the storm has cleft asunder.

Old did you say? are they growing old?
	Aye, but when shall they be older ?
For time rolls on with its tale untold
	And the heart of man grows colder.
Oh, dear are the hills that our fathers trod
	Made dearer by song and story
But dearer by far are the hills of God,
	That shine ’neath the shine of glory.

Are the mountains old? If they are who cares?
	Since high in his cloud of thunder,
He sits; and the sword in his right hand bears
	That cleaves the rocks asunder.
Oh, rich is his love as the earth is broad.
	And the heart and the hand grow stronger,
To think we shall dwell on the hills of God,
	When time shall be no longer!


[Column 1]
LADIES SEMI-MONTHLY
MEETING.
	SYNOPSIS of minutes of meeting held in
the 14th Ward Assembly Rooms, Saturday,
Augusts 8, 1896, President M. Isabella

[Column 2]
Horne presiding. Singing “O, Jesus the
Giver;” prayer by Counselor E. Webb;
singing “Our God we raise to Thee.”
Minutes of previous meeting read and after
some corrections approved. President
Horne addressed the audience upon home
matters and referred with much feeling to
the condition of the government at the
present time, and the necessity of women
voting for good men; alluded to the wor-
ship of Mammon by the world, and especi-
ally the keeping of the Sabbath day holy.
Spoke Of Sister Eliza’s words concerning
those who attended these meetings, that they
were the “salt of the wards.” Prayed the
blessing of God upon all and His Holy
Spirit to guide us.
	Sister Sarah M. Kimball felt very desir-
ous of attending these meetings; thought
our nation was in a very critical condition
today, spoke seriously of the coming elec-
tion and the great importance of it; said she
had studied political matters all her life, and
that they were a part of her religion; she ex-
pected to study this subject more carefully
now than ever, and to do more praying
over it and she considered it the duty of
everybody; there was nothing that absorbed
the minds of the people as much as this
subject, because of the interests involved.
Prayed God to bless us all.
	Sister Bathsheba W. Smith spoke of
some of the sayings of Sister Eliza Snow
and the fulfillment of them; said she was
not much in love with politics until the
people could learn to acknowledge the hand
of the Lord in dealing with these questions.
Prayed the Lord would prepare us all to
be saved.
	Sister Hannah Conklin, Maria Barnes and
others bore faithful testimonies to the truth
of this work. Singing “How firm a found-
ation.” Sister Sarah Alger from St.
George made some interesting remarks.
Sister Alger is familiar with sericulture and
has labored much in its interest in Dixie;
is President of the Silk Association of St.
George.
	Sister Zina Young, President of the Re-
lief Society, felt the walls of the house
were sacred; where so many good things
had been said, and so many hearts comfort-
ed. ‘‘Sisters stand firm and never trip
over the car of state, but keep it evenly bal-
anced; say with Brother Goddard ‘Who’s
on the Lord’s side, who?’ ” Entreated the
sisters to be prayerful and made a very apt
illustrat on concerning prayer in domestic
affairs. Referred to her recent visit to
Pocatello, Idaho, and gave an account of
the meetings held there; prayed the Lord to
bless us and that we might be prepared to
see the Savior’s face.
	Sister Mary L. Morris spoke of some re-
marks Sister Zina had made twenty years
ago and that they had always been with
her; made other good remarks.
	Pres’t. Horne gave out the notice of the
excursion to Saltair on the 20th, stating the
last one had been such a failure on account
of the unpleasant weather. Singing “Lord
dismiss us with Thy blessing.” Benediction
by Counselor E. J. Stevenson.
		ZINA Y. HYDE, Ass’t. Sec.
	SYNOPSIS of minutes of meeting held in
the 14th Ward Hall August 22, 1896,
President M. Isabella Horne presiding.
Singing ‘‘Arise, O glorious Zion;” prayer by
Sister Lydia D. Alder singing “Now let us
rejoice.” Minutes of previous meeting
read and accepted. President Horne was
not feeling very well, but was anxious to

[Column 3]
hear others speak; realized the sisters were
improving and also gradually overcoming
their timidity; it took courageous people to
be Latter-day Saints, we should pray for
strength to overcome our trials and tribula-
tions; spoke earnestly upon the subject of
prayer and its helpfulness in all things.
	Sister Rachel R. Grant spoke of having come
to the meeting to see the faces of her sisters
as she could not hear, but although she
could not hear what was said she partook
of the spirit of the gatherings she attended.
Alluded to the signs of the times and was
impressed that the time was short; begged
the sisters to guard against fault-finding;
gave much good advice and suggested that
we were a blessed people, to be shielded
and protected from the terrible calamities
that were happening in the world; said her
greatest trial was her deafness; wished we
would all pray for her that her hearing
might be restored.
	Sister Elmina S. Taylor referred to the
remarks of the former speakers, and partic-
ularly to Sister Grant whose patient aud
sweet spirit notwithstanding her afflictions
was an example to us all. Protested
against evil speaking especially “against
the Lord's anointed;” it brought darkness
and unpleasantness and was not the Spirit
of God. “We have a right to judge our-
selves but no one else, we must have char-
ity; every hour in the day we should say
Oh, God help us and guide us continually
in every act of our lives.”
	Sister Lydia D. Alder referred to a con-
versation with a strange lady who had visit-
ed the Tabernacle, and the peculiar feeling
the lady had when she looked over to the
Temple and of other remarks made in the
course of conversation, which showed im-
pressions were made upon strangers by our
surroundings and our teachings even in
private talks with people we met casually.
Sisters Bozzi, Barrows and others bore
beautiful testimonies calculated to strength-
en the faith of all who heard. Sister Sarah
Phelps realized the work was rolling along
and the people were being tested; asked
the Lord to show to the young people in
Zion what was passing, and give them the
strength to withstand the temptations
around them, and keep them from evil.
	Sister Julia C. Howe thought it very
necessary that we should have the spirit of
discernment; exhorted the sisters to set
good examples in all places, and to teach
at all times the principles taught in the
holy Scriptures, to observe the Sabbath
day and to keep all the commandments;
realized we were a blessed people.
	Sister Margaret Brown gave some of
her experiences and how she came to join
the Church, and repeated part of a con-
versation with a young man whom she
met and believed she had sown some
good seed in his heart.
	Singing “Let Zion in her beauty rise.”
Sister Rawlings bore her testimony, and
after the transaction of some business, and
giving out the notice of the Relief Society
Stake Conference, the meeting was ad-
journed; singing “This God is the God
we adore.” Benediction by Counselor E.
Webb.
		ZINA Y. HYDE, Ass’t. Sec.


WHY should not women vote? The es-
sence of all republicanism is that they who
feel the pressure of the law shall have a
voice in its enactment.—REV. JOHN PIER-
PONT.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
WOMAN'S EXPONENT

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.
ANNIE WELLS CANNON (Camelia), Editorial Contributor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: one copy one year, $1.00; one copy six months,
50 cts. No reduction made for clubs. City papers deliv-
ered by mail, extra for postage one year, 25 cts.
	Advertising rates: Each square, ten lines of nonp[-]reil
space one time, $2.50; per month, $3.00. A liberal dis-
count to regular advertisers.
	EXPONENT office, Rooms 227 &228 Constitution Build-
ing, Main Street, opposite Z. C. M, I. Business hours from
10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day, except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		PUBLISHER WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
					SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH.
	Entered at the Post Office in Salt Lake City, Utah, as
cond-class matter.

SALT LAKE CITY SEPTEMBER 15, 1896.


The Relief Society of the Salt Lake
Stake will hold their Quarterly Conference
on Saturday, September 19, in the Assem-
bly Hall in this city, meetings commencing
as usual at 10 a. m. and at 2 p. m. It is
desired there should be as large an atten-
dance as possible from the members of the
society throughout the city and county
and that each President be present or
send an authorized representative. The
public are cordially invited.


[Column 1]
THE POLITICAL OUTLOOK.

	IN the midst of the excitement over the
political situation designated critical now
prevailing in the United States, it seems
positively necessary that those who believe
in an over-ruling power should exercise
their utmost faith in appealing to the Lord
in behalf of the people in this great nation;
that the government “by the people and of
the people,” of which Americans have
boasted so much and have been so justly
proud, may be preserved intact; that no
conflict between capital and labor shall
reach that stage of bitterness and ill-feeling
that it cannot be amicably adjusted, and the
nation saved from ruin, which according to
some eminent statesmen now seems impend-
ing, unless great and radical monetary
changes are made in the near future.
	The efficacy of prayer cannot be over-
rated; thousands of instances might be cited
to prove this assertion. Throughout the
world, when all other or earthly
means fail, prayer is the only refuge.
Among the Latter-day Saints fasting and
prayer has accomplished what to all human
appearance seemed utterly impossible; testi-
mony upon testimony might be adduced in
our own day to substantiate this fact, but to
the people of the world who believe in the
Holy Scriptures, Bible proof is more con-
vincing still; and how many times the Lord
hearkened and heard when besought in
mighty faith through prayer both by the
ancients, and what we term Former-day
Saints.
	Men may scoff and ridicule this method
of settling difficulties, and warding off dan-
gers, and insist that “the wisdom of the
wise” is sufficient; but in all ages of the
world, God has revealed Himself at differ-
ent times so visibly that the most confirmed
agnostic could not disprove the fact, though
he might deny the interposition of the Al-

[Column 2]
mighty. That faith without works is dead
is true; but when all things fail and one
sees how utterly fruitless is human knowl-
edge and skill, then only God is in the
thoughts, and this of itself should teach the
most doubting unbeliever that His power is
supreme. Then why not appeal to Him
through it all, not waiting until all other
means fail, but acknowledge Him in that
universe over all, and follow the whisper-
ings of Divine spirit even though darkness
obscures all else, and one can but take one
step at a time, not knowing fully, only
trusting in the infinite.
   The whole country is (as it were) in a
tumult of uncertainty, and one who does
not trust in God might easily be persuaded
that a reign of terror is imminent; but He
who can command the fierce winds and
stormy waves can also move upon the hearts
of designing men to soften and subdue
hatred, malice, avarice and unwarranted
ambition for power, and wicked purposes.
   That the Lord intended America for a
land of liberty, for the oppressed of all na-
tions, seems now to be an accepted fact.
That Columbus was inspired to seek it out,
not knowing what the future would unfold,
is equally so. That the Pilgrim fathers and
mothers (although they did leave their
dear old England because of religious per-
secution) were led hither under the guid-
ance and protection of the Almighty, to es-
tablish freedom of conscience, no one
attempts to deny; and that the Constitution
of this Republic was an inspired instrument
is coming to be, and will be eventually,
universally acknowledged. And we go
even farther than this, and assert that the
Latter-day Saints were led to these barren
vales to open up a new and more extended
country where more and more of the op-
pressed and down-trodden from among the
nations might have refuge and rest, with
homes and advantages such as other
countries did not afford; and this is none
the less true because of this people having
been driven into the wilderness, beyond the
pale of civilization, forced to flee, as were
their Puritan forefathers, because of their
objectionable religious belief.
   The prosperity that has attended this
people has been "a marvel and a wonder”
while they have been pursuing such occupa-
tion as tend to thrift, morality and laudable
enterprise, and their flocks and herds have
increased, and their fields and farms have
yielded bountiful harvests. Blessings have
been showered upon them of late, as it were,
until instead of being a reproach as in for-
mer days, they have come to be highly es-
teemed, and in many respects considered an
example to neighboring states. What does
all this portend? Surely not that they
should forsake the quiet industrious habits
and ways of the founders of this state and
the intermountain country adjacent, and
give themselves over to the speculations
and methods of those who are not for the
laws of God, nor human brotherhood.
Hitherto the teaching of the Savior, “Love
thy neighbor as thyself,” has largely pre-
vailed, and His injunction, “Watch and
pray lest ye enter into temptation!” Let
us hope the future will prove further still
in this new state the integrity and honesty
of the people who are now being brought
under conditions of greater responsibility,
and that they will stand for purity and up-
rightness in all that pertains to life, liberty
and the pursuit of happiness and the princi-

[Column 3]
ple of good government, whatever comes,
whether prosperity or adversity. There
will assuredly be opportunity to prove the
loyalty of the people in this Western land,
that is a foregone conclusion; honest men
will be needed, for as the wealth of the hills
is developed and the world grows greedy of
gain as it assuredly will, those who keep
their faith and trust in God inviolate will
come into prominence because of those
sterling qualities, that always command re-
spect and admiration in every age of the
world. 
   It is as true now as in days of old that
“The love of money is the root of all evil.”
When a nation or a people admit that the
question of paramount importance is the
money question, and it is put first before
any other consideration, danger is lurking
near and the steadfast faith and sincere
prayers of the humble and the meek are
needed to help keep “the ship of state” from
being dashed to pieces by the storms that
threaten to rise from warring human ele-
ments and passions of man in our own
country, that are sometimes more to be
dreaded than the invasion of foreign power.
   In this crisis of the present time women
as a class all over the land are manifesting
greater interest than ever before, and giving
more intelligent thought to public questions
and needs; the opportunities have come to
them through the spirit of the times, and
the Herculean efforts of some of the wo-
men of our day, energetic workers and
moulders of public sentiment, such as
Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady Stanton and
Susan B. Anthony, with many others fol-
lowing in their lead; this element in politics
should be a conservative one, to help cor-
rect and modify; there may be and un-
doubtedly will be, a few extremists, but
they will be scarce, if only because of the
timidity and lack of confidence among wo-
men of their own understanding of these
vital questions that are now being agitated.
There certainly is great need of conserva-
tism when opinions run riot as they do
now, and spring up spontaneously, like
mushrooms without the least thought or
cultivation; and spread abroad too like
wild-fire.
   The women of Utah who have just been
given equal suffrage, have a hard question
before them to solve, and they should above
all else study carefully and prayerfully
over these matters that are so new to them,
and of such grave importance. Better do
too little than too much, but be sure to
register properly, and be ready to vote
light, if possible, when election time comes.
What the women of Utah are going to do
with the ballot is being much talked of at
home and elsewhere, but it is not a good
thing to be too fearful. The pioneer women
have had many lessons that ought to serve a
good purpose now if they would recall
them. The prophecies of Heber C. Kim-
ball, that the time would come when a barrel
of wheat would be worth a barrel of gold,
will yet come to pass, and in view of that it
it would seem there are other considerations
for women at least, than the money
question; it would be a sad state of affairs
if this people had not something better than
silver or gold. The blessing of the Gospel
and the holy priesthood are always first,
and other things secondary in importance;
the saying of the Savior, ‘Silver and gold
I have not, but such as I have I give unto


you,” should be a lesson for us. Better to
have homes in which to dwell, and some-
thing to eat, than all the gold in these
mountains, or silver either, and lose the
sweet simple spirit of the Gospel. Conten-
tion does not bring a spirit of peace and
love, such as the Saints should enjoy, and
women as well as men need to be on their
guard at all times and keep from evil say-
ing, and seek the Lord for wisdom in polit-
cal as well as in all other matters; the votes
of women and their candid opinions will be
needed, but the faith and prayers and the
spirit of peace which ought to characterize
women in the political atmosphere as much
as in society and in the home will help very
greatly. The writer has great faith in the
women of Utah that they will be wise con-
siderate, and prayerful, and if they are they
will not fail to be right in political matters
and honest with their own consciences.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
CANNON WARD RELIEF SOCIETY.
	ON the 6th of August 1896, at 2 p.m.,
a meeting was held in the Cannon school
house for the purpose of organizing a Re-
lief Society in that ward. Bishop Lewis
M. Cannon and one of his Counselors, F.
A. Gould, were present and also Elder L.
John Nuttall, and some sisters who had
been invited to be present. Bishop L. M.
Cannon presided and meeting opened with
singing, “Come, come ye Saints;” prayer
was offered by Elder Gould; continued by
singing “Now let us rejoice.” Sister M.
Isabella Horne, President of the Relief
Society of Salt Lake Stake, was the first
speaker; she made some explanations in re-
gard to the Society as a whole, its origin
and growth, and the changes made to se-
cure property legally; also as to the Society
becoming connected to the National Council
of Women of the United States. Referred
to the Prophet Joseph’s words concerning
the future of the organization, and said the
prophecies he made at that time seemed
scarcely possible of fulfillment, but had
since come to pass in a wonderful way.
Deemed it our duty to take advantage of
these organizations, and thought it strange
so many should be indifferent in regard to
women’s associations; she knew we made
greater advancement when organized than
we possibly could otherwise. Said we
should not yield to evil or temptation, but
keep humble and prayerful and we would
not be led astray.
	Sister Annie T. Hyde, Counselor to
Sister Horne, in her remarks, said she had
been thinking of the number that were pre-
sent at the first organization in the Masonic
Hall in Nauvoo, Illinois. On that occasion
Joseph Smith read the revelation about
Emma Smith in which she is called “the
Elect Lady,” and said “she was called then
but was now elected.” Sister Hyde spoke
of those sisters who were present that morn-
ing, Sarah M. Kimball, Bathsheba W.
Smith and Leonora Taylor, (the aunt of
President Cannon;) she also made other
good remarks, and added she had heard
these things from her father, Elder John
Taylor, who was present at the organiza-
tion. Sister Bathsheba W. Smith in speak-
ing said she did not realize the blessing it was
then to be a member of this Society as she
did now; the Prophet organized them in
the name of the Lord, and taught them
many things, and met with them from time
to time. She was present when he said “he

[Column 2]
would not be with us long,” the effect of
his words was very powerful; his voice
trembled and he seemed much affected; she
wished she had written more of his sayings,
then she would have remembered things
better. “Our labors among the poor are not
changed because of the change in the name
or legalizing of our property; we must live
our religion and never apostatize, and must
be punctual in all our duties.”
	Sister E. B. Wells spoke briefly upon the
educational benefits of the Society, morally
and spiritually, and what she realized it had
been to the women in these valleys, and
the vast work that had been accomplished
for mankind through the Society. Exhort-
ed the young women to take hold of the
work and help carry the responsibility,
while there were still some of those living
who had labored so diligently in laying the
foundation. Sister Smith and Horne each
spoke again a few words alluding to wo-
man’s mission in this and other dispensa-
tions, and referred to Miriam and to Sarah
who were so greatly honored of the Lord.
	Elder L. John Nuttall, spoke upon the
first organization of the Relief Society by
the Prophet, and of the fulfillment of the
revelation to Emma Smith, and the won-
derful changes that had come to pass among
women all over the world since, because of
the key of knowledge that was turned for
women by the Prophet at that time; said
he had studied the subject considerably and
found that Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth
Cady Stanton had called the first Ccmmittee
of women in 1848—while our organization
dated back to March 17, 1842; he also al-
luded to the saying of Joseph Smith that
“the sisters should provoke the brethren to
good works;” referred to many things
that happened in those days, and said the
changes made now were not the only ones
that had been made in the Relief Society,
nor in the Church as progress was made;
thought the sisters should become familiar
with parliamentary usages; these regula-
tions had been permitted and every one
should understand and observe them. Elder
Nuttall then read the “Rules or By-laws,”
and the Society was organized.
	Mrs. Sarah Jane Cannon, President,
Rebecca A. Sharp and Sarah A. J. Cannon,
Vice Presidents, Sarah Temery, Secretary,
Mary A. West, Treasurer; Trustees Carlie
Y. Cannon, Sarah A. Davey and Martha
T. Cannon. A number of members were
enrolled. The Society is to be known as
the Cannon Ward Relief Society. Presi-
dent Horne gave some further instruction
about the duties of the members, and told
them that beside the record kept here the
angels were silent notes taking, and they
were recorded in heaven. Minutes of the
organization were read and accepted and
meeting was adjourned to complete the or-
ganization by setting apart the officers etc.,
until Tuesday, August 18, at 2 p. m. at the
same place. Dismissed with prayer.


U W. P. C.

	THE Utah Woman’s Press Club met at
the EXPONENT Office, Aug. 31, 1896, Presi-
dent E. B. Wells in the chair. Prayer was
offered by Mrs. Lizzie Shipp. The roll
was called, members responding with or-
iginal sentiments; minutes of the July
meeting were read and approved. President
E. B. Wells said she had received a card


from the Ladies Literary Club, inviting the
members of the Press Club to be present at
their opening day exercises, which would
include a reception to the retiring president;
also a book containing their plan of work
for the year. Miss Monroe moved that a
vote of thanks be tendered the Literary
Club for their invitation; the motion was
carried unanimously. Dr. R. B. Pratt read
a poem from Jean Ingelow entitled, “The
Dead Year,” followed by a sketch from the
life of Margaret, Queen of St Louis of
France. Dr. E. B. Ferguson gave an in-
teresting account of the Democratic conven-
tion held at Chicago to which she was sent
as a delegate. Meeting was then adjourned
for one month. Closing prayer by Mrs.
Mary Morris; after which delicious refresh-
ments were served, and pleasant chat en-
gaged in.
		ELLA W. HYDE, Cor. Sec.


“SEPTEMBER SEVENTH.”
		1896.

	IT is Labor Day. The stores and shops
are closed and business is principally sus-
pended. Where are those ladies going,
those small groups, now two or three to-
gether, and later on one and then another
alone?
	Don’t you know whose birthday this is?
Don’t you remember that blessed “friend of
mankind,” Aunt Prescendia Kimball?
This is the 86th anniversary of her birth.
Sister Elizabeth Stevenson has opened her
doors to a few of the special friends of
Aunt Prescendia, to celebrate the memory
of that dear woman.
	And yet, not a tithe of those who were her
special friends can here be entertained; her
favorites and those with whom she was a
favorite, were as numerous as those who
ever heard her voice or felt her hand in
blessing; and they are shall we say without
number?
	Those first comers are the two Nebeker
sisters. Next comes Sister Zina, followed
at intervals by B. W. Smith, M. I. Horne,
E. H. Paul, M. E. Kimball, M. C. Sharp,
A. Airmit, P. Y. Beatie, M. R. Alford, J.
C. Howe, M. A. Hyde, J. P. Fowler, M.
J. Howard, A. Tate, E. Jackson, S. E.
Young, L. L. G. Richards, S. M. Kimball,
E. S. Wilcox, H. Saunders and B. How-
arth.
	Very pleasant conversation first; then
dinner, served by the hostess, in a most
agreeable manner; after which a meeting
was held, presided over by President M. I.
Horne.
	Singing, “We thank Thee O God for a
Prophet.” All kneel in prayer led by Sis-
ter Richards. Singing, “O, my Father,”
etc. And now, every one present has a
testimony to offer concerning the love, the
power of blessing, and the extraordinary
faith which was possessed and exercised by
the favored daughter of God in whose hon-
or they had met. Each speak in turn; all
hearts are full to overflowing with gratitude
that they have known and felt the influence
of the boundless sympathy, and the affec-
tionate, tender yet strong and courageous
character possessed by Sister Prescendia
Kimball.
	The gifts of the Gospel are exercised
in touching and pathetic language by Sis-


ters M. A. Hyde, Z. D. Young, M. P.
Howe and E. H. Paul.
	A sharp thunder shower comes up during
the progress of the meeting, but clears off
in time for dismissal at half past five.
“Nearer my God to Thee,” is sung, Presi-
dent M. I. Horne offers benediction, and all
go home rejoicing in the bonds of love.
							LULA.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
FACTS ABOUT MISS DODGE.

	MISS DODGE first came into public notice
by her little book called “Wool-Gathering”
printed about twenty-five years ago. Hav-
ing been induced to invest some money in
a sheep farm in one of the Western States,
and having lost all her investment through
bad management or misrepresentation, or
both, she made an investigation of the wool
business, and wrote one of her characteristic
screeds about it. The book had an
enormous circulation all over the country.
It was the first evidence of her remarkable
power, and from that time forward every-
thing from her pen was eagerly read.
	During the war she won fame by her
championship of the case of a midshipman
in the navy, who had been accused of
mutiny and sedition and hanged at a yard-
arm. The lad was a nephew of a member
of the cabinet, and family influence
was set at work to convince Miss Dodge
that the boy was innocent. She made an
investigation of the charges, and succeeded
in convincing a great many people that the
midshipman had organized a sort of secret
society simply for fun, and not with any
seditious intent.
	Miss Dodge’s strong characteristics left
their impress upon the career of James G.
Blaine. It is one of the traditions of life
in the capital that Mr. Blaine always leaned
upon her judgment When in doubt as to
matters political, literary or diplomatic, it
was with her that he wished to consult be-
fore any one else. Miss Dodge’s skill as a
politician and her judgment of men were
remarkably keen, and with his wife and her
cousin as his advisers, it used to be a com-
mon saying in Washington that Mr. Blaine
had a cabinet which a President might
envy.
	Years ago, before Mr. Blaine’s literary
reputation was as firmly established as it
was before his death, there was a popular
belief that Miss Dodge wrote his speeches
and reviews for him. As late as 1881
when Blaine was in the Garfield cabinet,
he was suspected of having Miss Dodge as
his assistant in the preparation of diplomatic
dispatches.
	She worked very hard on the life of
James G. Blaine, and finished it just before
her illness, in June, 1895. She had in her
possession all the personal papers referring
to Mr. Blaine’s own affairs, and his business
and private correspondence.
	In the course of that sickness Miss Dodge
was unconscious for some time, and she
afterward wrote her experiences, which
were published in the New York Indepen-
dent, under the title, “Passing Through
the Shadow.” In this article Miss Dodge
declared that she died, and she detailed her
experience after death.
	In addition, Miss Dodge never ceased
her efforts to secure the release of Mrs.
Maybrick, the American woman imprisoned
for life in London on accusation of poison-

[Column 2]
ing her husband. She was the first woman
in America to engage in anything like a
systematic effort to accomplish Mrs. May-
brick’s release, and every day and every
week since she busied herself about this
same project.
	Miss Dodge had a keenly intellectual
face. Her hair was pure white and her
eyes were bright and penetrating, and
framed in this white hair her face was re-
markably impressive. She looked like a
bright broad-minded woman. Her life had
been one of constant work and excitment.
	When Gen. Butler was Governor of
Massachusetts he offered Miss Dodge a
position as one of the trustees of the State
workhouse at Bridgewater, a vacancy hav-
ing occurred on the board by reason of the
resignation of Mrs. James T. Fields.
	She was a kind and sympathetic woman,
dearly loved by her neighbors.
	Though not in favor of woman suffrage,
Miss Dodge was impatient of the fallacies
of its opponents, and her little book ridicul-
ing the Rev. John Todd for his contempt-
uous disparagement of womanhood, was
wonderfully keen and effective. In this
book nearly all the stock arguments of the
remonstrants are dissected with merciless
scalpel. In reply to the threadbare ob-
jection that if women voted they must en-
gage in every kind of rough manual labor,
Gail Hamilton caustically demanded why
it should follow, if equal suffrage were
granted, that Lucretia Mott must go to the
North Sea and hunt seals, while the Rev.
John Todd might stay at home and write
sermons? The early advocates of woman’s
rights will never forget her services to the
cause by this and other early writings. In-
deed her entire literary career has been an
object lesson in woman’s capacity as a
political thinker and writer.
	It is a singular anomaly that a woman
who exerted all her life so strong an in-
fluence on American politics should never
have been allowed to vote.—Woman's
Journal.


[Column 1]
LEAVES FROM MY JOURNAL.

SATURDAY, NOV. 23
	WE were to spend the morning at
Palatine Hill, there is so much of interest
to be seen—we drive early, changing the
road each time that we may see the different
points; so first to the Tarpeian Rock, under
which Tarpeia was buried and afterward
named for her, and from which the Christ-
ians were precipitated, then to Ghetto (Jews
quarter) and Portico of Octavia, again to
the Forum just to view the ruins of past
greatness and supremacy; also to view the
Hill from this point. The Caesars could
come from the Hill to the Forum under-
ground. The Prof. called our attention to
some iron bars,—looking down these was a
small stream of water which runs into the
aqueducts, “A lake or morass suddenly
appeared in the Forum; the Oracle said it
would never close until Rome threw into it
its most precious possessions; thereupon M.
Curtius a Roman youth, devoted himself to
the infernal gods for the safety of his
country. Arming himself he mounted his
horse and they plunged into the abyss—
which instantly closed over him.” 362 B.
C. This marks the spot where they leapt
in. We now left the carriages to ascend
the Hill, passing the house where St. Paul
lived, then to the Wolf’s Cave, under the

[Column 2]
Palace, and walled over, leaving it as it was
when, according to tradition, Romulus the
founder of Rome, the son of Mars and Ilia,
and twin brother of Remus; the twins were
thrown into the Tiber by their mother and
were cast ashore at this point, where they
were suckled by a she-wolf till they were
rescued by Faustulus, a shepherd who
brought them up. Disputes arising between
them as to who should rule Rome, Romulus
caused Remus to be slain. Plutarch says
they were the sons of Rhea Sylvia, daughter
of Numitor King of Alba. She was among
the Vestals, but being delivered of these
two children, declared the god Mars was
their father. Amulius who had usurped
the throne of Numitor, his brother,
caused the children to be thrown into the
Tiber, where they were found by Faustulus.
Romulus put Remus to death and after-
ward founded Rome.
	Ascending the Hill we had splendid
views of the city, Islands of Tiber and the
river; it is deep but only about 200 ft. wide,
rises in the Appennines and falls into the
Mediterranean about fifteen miles below
Rome. I was disappointed in the river.
Lord Macauley says in ‘‘Lays of Ancient
Rome,”
	“Never I ween did swimmer,
		in such an evil case,
	Struggle through such a raging flood,
		Safe to the landing place;
	But his limbs were borne up bravely,
		By the brave heart within,
	And our good father Tiber
		Bore bravely up his chin.”
	“Cocles, a celebrated Roman, though
wounded and impeded by his arms and
armour, leapt into the Tiber and swam
safely across.” Don’t know what there is
about that to make me imagine the Tiber a
mile wide; perhaps it was larger then; many
of our streams that were once torrents are
now only bubbling brooks. The Palaces
of the Caesars covered this hill, and in the
time of Nero—portions of the neighboring
ones. Enough of the ruins remain to tell
us of their splendor; brick encased in mar-
ble all differing one from another, built at
different epochs and separated by streets
and squares. The house of Augustus is
most ancient, situated on the side of the
Circus Maximus northeast angle of the hill;
the house of Tiberius on the Valabruse; the
house of Caligula at the northeast angle
upon the Forum; the house of the infam-
ous Nero, the Caesar celebrated for his
cruelty and vice. It is said he was in the
habit of visiting the meanest taverns and
scenes of depravity during the night.
Among his ugly deeds was a resolve to burn
Rome and build a greater. In A.D. 64,
he caused the city to be set on fire in differ-
ent places, the conflagration lasting nine
days during which time he placed himself
on the top of a tower and sang of the de-
struction of Troy, accompanying himself
on a lyre; of the fourteen city wards three
were entirely, and seven nearly destroyed,
many costly and old monuments and many
masterpieces of Greek art were destroyed.
Nero’s golden house on the S. side of
the Esquiline Hill, soon after his death fell
into decay; on the site of the artificial lake
between the gardens, Vespasian began to
build the Coliseum; part of this golden
palace was utilized by Titus as a foundation
for his baths; they point out the towers
where Nero sat, but doubtful,as there were
several in that vicinity at the time.


[Column 1]
	We stood where Paul appealed as a Ro-
man citizen to Caesar; there are fragments
of the confessional and judgment seat at
which these two men met face to face as
prisoner and judge. “And he found no
fault in him.” It was not Nero who con-
demned him to death; we know this spot to
be authentic, as there was no other place
where he received the people.
	We next saw the house of Germanicus
on Palatine Hill in perfect preservation,
the interior decorations were beautiful, the
pictures which decorated the walls are con-
sidered as the best among those found at
Rome. As we turned away to examine
the gardens, which were beautiful, I asked
the guard whose duty it is to see that tour-
sts take nothing, if I might have an ivy
leaf that clung to the wall. He smiled and
replied yes, giving me also a rose.
	Near the temple of Vesta was a beautiful
statue—in fragments—of one of the Vestal
virgins; it was magnificently sculptured.
Vesta a goddess, daughter of Rhea and
Saturn; the Palladium, a celebrated statue
of Pallas was supposed to be preserved
within the sanctuary where fire was contin-
ually burning. The Vestal virgins, (priest-
esses consecrated to the service of Vesta,)
were required to be of a good family and
free from blemish and deformity. One of
their duties was to see the sacred fire was
not extinguished; they were sworn to vows
of chastity and if broken were buried alive.
They were ten years in preparation, ten in
service, ten in retirement, taking thirty
years of their life. ’Tis said but seven of
their number ever broke their vow. We
had a very interesting lecture while view-
ing the extensive remains of the Stradium.
All the Emperors built booths, each en-
deavored to eclipse the other in structure
and magnificence. It is said when Diocle-
tian built his on Viminal Hill he employed
40,000 soldiers, then destroyed all the
workmen. Baths were deemed a necessity,
but Alexander Servius first permitted the
people to use them at night.
	Augustus bought and placed in the tem-
ple of Caesar that beautiful painting by
Appellas, “Venus rising from the sea.”
We now visited the Scala Santa, a flight
of 28 marble steps reputed to be from the
house of Pilate. Charlemagne, who was
crowned Emperor of Rome and assumed
the title of Caesar and Augustus on Christmas
Day, 800, in the old Cathedral of St. Peter,
was the first man of unmixed blood who
became Emperor of Rome. Luther’s visit
marks the begining of the Reformation,
“To visit the fountain head of Christian
faith, seeking help and guidance. Roderigo
was Pope; all know the crimes wrought in
his time under the shadow of St. Peter.”
People ascend these stairs on their knees
saying a prayer on each step, thereby gain-
ing indulgence of a thousand years. Luth-
er ascended half way up when he suddenly
stood erect, and lifting his face heavenward
turned and walked slowly down. He said
as he toiled up the stairs it seemed a voice
as if from heaven whispered to him the old
well known words which had been his
battle cry in so many victorious conflicts.
“The just shall live by faith.”
	Sunday 24. Raining; so with a cheer-
ful wood fire in my room remain in, letter
writing.
	Monday, Nov. 25. Breakfast early, off
for Tivoli, a fashionable resort in the time
of Horace, to explore the temples, grottoes,
villas and ruins of the locality. Along the

[Column 2]
Campagna plain we saw the beautiful effect
of light on the broad rolling landscape; we
saw the peasants in their bright colored
costumes, and the old watering place or
health resort sulphur springs, and frag-
ments of aqueducts. The Campagna is
bounded on North by the Cinimian For-
est, on the West by the sea, East by the
Appennines Chain of the Sabine Mountains
Labuie, once covered with feudal castles
and cities, but were all buried under the
eruption of Vesuvius; passed through the
Alban Mountains; the olive trees were old
and full of fruit, the air and woods full of
delicate perfume; crossed the Arno and
soon reached the old town, the streets were
just wide enough for us to pass; you could
look into the houses, and the smells, oh
my! The girls were pretty with dark com-
plexions and bright eyes, and black tresses
We saw several dwarfs just my ideal from
goblin stories, very tiny with monstrous
head and feet. We crossed the bridge and
went to a chalet on the hill, near the cas-
cades; our lunch was prepared in the thea-
tre which had windows opening on the
veranda, from which superb views of the
town and a rectangular Ionic temple were
to be seen; the gardens were most beauti-
ful. We walked to the cascades, they are
formed by the Arno as it falls into the
Tiber. The walks were through the forest
and all terraced; we climbed to the new
waterfall 330 ft. in height; this fall is arti-
fical being formed by diverting parts of the
water of Arno into a new channel by
means of two long tunnels through the
limestone rock. This was done to prevent
the inundations like that of 1826, which
destroyed a part of the village. We walked
down to the Sibyls Cave, looking up, the
three cascades were to be seen; they are in-
deed beautiful. Returning to chalet we
had an excellent dinner, the host himself
attending to us with all the grace of a
Beau Brummel; we promised to send our
friends there.
							KIM.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


NOTES AND NEWS.

	MISS HELEN V. CRAWFORD, the gifted
elocutionist who so ably officiated at the
Portland Woman’s Congress as chief read-
ing clerk, has been chosen as Professor of Elo-
cution for the Agricultural College at Cor-
vallis Ore.
	MISS FRANCES GRAHAM FRENCH, of the
Bureau of Education (better known to the
readers of the Woman’s Journal as our
correspondent “Graham”) and Mrs. Belva
A. Lockwood have been, appointed by the
State Department to represent the United
States at the second International Congress
of Charities, and the second international
Congress for the Protection of Children, to
open at Geneva on Sep. 15. They also ex-
pect to be present at the International Peace
Congress at Budapest, and the International
Woman’s Congress which will open at Ber-
lin, Sep. 19.— Woman’s Journal.


IN MEMORIAM
		'The parted spirit
Knoweth not our sorrow? Answereth not
Its blessing to our tears?”


“THE circle is broken—one seat is forsaken—
One bud from the tree of our friendship is shaken,
One heart from among us no longer shall thrill
With joy in our gladneas, or grief in our ill.”
	Mrs. Ellen Curtis Spencer Clawson was a
member of the Reapers Club at its first or-
ganization, Oct. 3, 1892, and which now
has an enrollment of some sixty members.
She is the first to be called to the “Heaven-
ly Home.” There is not a member whose
heart is not pained in the loss of so kind
and sweet a friend. To look upon her of
late the feeling would creep into the heart,
that she was daily growing more ethereal
and spirituelle by the paleness of her classic
face, and the liquid depth of her clear eye.
The mother love was as a filled quiver and
her many gifted children are evidence of
her refined, poetic influence and training.
As a club we shall miss her interesting-
papers as her name comes around in the
roll. She read with a low, sweet, sympa-
thetic voice that lulled all hearts in peace
and chained them in sympathy. Sweet
friend we miss thee! yet mourn not that
thou so worthy hast been called to a holier
sphere, where pain, and death, and sorrow
can pierce thy gentle heart no more—
“The heart ever open to Charity’s claim
Unmoved from its purpose by censure or blame
While vainly alike in her eye and her ear
Fell the scorn of the heartless, the jesting and
	jeer.
As a cloud of the sunset, slow melting in heaven
As a star that is lost when the daylight is given
As a glad dream of slumber, which wakens in
	bliss,
She has passed to the world of the holy, from
	this.”
	ROMANIA B. PRATT,
	JULIA DRUCE,		}Committee.
	LUCY B. YOUNG,


RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	ADOPTED by the officers and members of the
Thomas Fork Relief Society in memory of our
beloved sister, Samantha Adeline Hoops, who de-
parted this life July 15, 1896, at her home in
Thomas Fork, Bear Lake Co. 
	WHEREAS, Our Heavenly Father in His wisdom
has seen fit to take from our midst our beloved
sister, Samantha Hoops, be it
	RESOLVED, That while we bow in humble sub-
mission to the will of Him “Who doeth all things
well,” we do recognize in her death the loss of a
faithful member in our society, a true friend, a
devoted wife and mother and a true Latter day
Saint.
	We also recognize in her faithful labors and de-
votion to the cause of truth, an example worthy
the emulation of our Society.
	RESOLVED, That we sincerly sympathize with
the bereaved husband, Brother Francis M.
Hoops, her. children and her friends in the loss
of faithful wife, a loving mother and sincere
friend.
	Also that these resolutions be placed on the
records of the Thomas Fork Relief Society, and
be published in the WOMAN’S EXPONENT, and
that a copy be sent to the family of our dear de-
parted sister with these lines selected:
	A gentle woman’s gone to rest;
		A gentle mother’s voice is still;
	Sweet children and a husband kind
		Bow humbly to the Father’s will.
	The loss we feel is sister’s gain— 
		A Heavenly bliss is her reward,
	For while on earth she ever strove
		To faithfully obey the Lord.
	And those who mourn for mother, wife
		May they find peace from God above;
	And if they lead as pure a life,
		Again they’ll know a mother’s love.
								A MEMBER.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


HONOR TO A VETERAN.

Dear Sister Wells:
	According to previous appointment a few
sisters, thirteen in number, met at the
residence of Sister Howd Aug. 24, to com-
fort and cheer her in her affliction. You
have heard, perhaps, how she met with an
accident on June 7, which laid her upon a
bed of sickness and deprived her of the use
of her right limb. She has now so far re-
covered as to be able to sit up, but cannot
use her limb to walk. The sisters surprised
her completely, and she felt pleased and
grateful that we had thought of her. By
request of Sister Howd we held a little
meeting, Sister R. W. Tyler presiding.
Opened by singing and prayer, after which
all the sisters expressed themselves as
happy and thankful in meeting with Sister
Howd and seeing her so far recovered.
Sister Howd testified that it was only
through the power of God and the prayers
of the faithful brethren and sisters that she
had been restored thus far, and she felt that
He would continue to bless her until she
could walk. Sister Tyler said whomsoever
the Lord loveth He chasteneth, and afflic-
tions cause us to draw near to our heavenly
Father.
	At the close of the meeting a bounteous
picnic was served in an adjoining room.
Sister Howd was carried in her chair and
placed at the head of the table, and all had
a feast of good things as they had previous-
ly enjoyed a feast of the Holy Spirit.
	A sweet and heavenly influence prevaded
during all the proceedings, and we left
Sister Howd feeling much better. It is the
intention to visit in a similar manner, other
sisters who are confined to their homes, as
we cannot honor too much these aged ones
who, having spent their lives in humbly
serving God, are now drawing close to the
other side.
	Respectfully your sister in the Gospel,
						   L. W. JONES.
BEAVER, Aug. 31, 1896.


RECEPTION TO THE LADIES LITER-
ARY CLUB.

	ON Friday, the 11th of September, all
members of clubs belonging to the Utah
Federation were invited to the opening day
exercises of the Ladies Literary
Club, and to an informal reception
tendered Mrs. Corinne M. Allen, the re-
tiring president of the club.
	The large room on the second floor of the
Executive Building was beautifully decor-
ated for the occasion with trailing vines and
bright-hued autumn flowers.
	Mrs. Allen, who is the wife of Represen-
tative C. E. Allen, spent last winter at the
national capital and while there she visited a
number of woman’s clubs and she thinks
ours compare favorably with any of them,
though of course they have the advantage
of us in being so located as to get items of
interest almost if not quite as soon as the
newspapers. As far as the Federation is
concerned we are in advance—only twelve
out of a possible fifty are members of the
District Federation, while in Utah every
club of any size or influence has joined the
Utah Federation.
	After Mrs. Allen’s report Mrs. La Barthe,
the new president, was conducted to the
chair; she was greeted with prolonged ap-
plause and at its close made a most eloquent


address thanking the ladies for their greet-
ing and outlining the work of the club for
the coming year At the close of Mrs. La
Barthe’s speech the invited ladies went for-
ward to shake hands with Mrs. Allen and
welcome her home and partake of dainty
refreshments served by ladies, amid sweet
strains of music. 
						D. I. S.


OUGHT WOMEN TO WANT TO 
VOTE?

BY RACHEL FOSTER AVERY.
	IN a republican form of government the
vote means the power to control the condi-
tions of living; ought not the mothers of
the land to be interested in this? Have
they not opinions worth the counting as to
the conditions, moral, mental and physical,
under which their children shall grow to
manhood and womanhood, or struggling
against which they shall fill an early grave?
	When in this great nation (great in ex-
tent, in wealth and in number,) we know
there are public schools in which one teacher
is supposed to instruct (?) over one hundred
little children at each session; when in some
of our cities there are thousands of children
unable even to gain admission to our public
schools; when the death rate in certain por-
tions of New York City among its tene-
ments is six times the average of the city
in general—ought not the women of the na-
tion to wish fervently for the power to help
the best men in their struggle to bring
about a better condition of things?
	With all our boasts concerning our great
and grand Republic, we have an oligarchy
of sex under which we enjoy mismanaged
municipalities, states in which the office
holders seem to regard the government
as their own peculiar prey, and a national
government apparently incapable of coping
with the great crying needs of our people.
Women have opinions worth considering on
all these men-made conditions. I am safe
in saying there is not a woman in a hundred
in these days, who has not an opinion upon
the issues which will be voted upon in No-
vember, nor are they chary of expressing
their opinions; I believe they will compare
favorably with the opinions of men as to
common sense and information, yet many
of these same women would think it unwor-
thy to express an opinion by casting a ballot
which would crystallize it into law!
	There has never been a time in all our
history when the American Republic so
much needed the help of all who are inter-
ested in the perpetuity of this nation; wo-
men as a part of the nation ought to feel
themselves bound to give their best thought
and work to its support, yet only in Wyo-
ming, Colorado and Utah will the vote of wo-
men be cast in November to help decide the
policy of our government during the next
four years.—Ex.


THE September “Godey’s” has an inter-
esting article on Anna Ella Carroll proving
the fact already acknowledged by commit-
tees of Congress, that she was the author
of the plan that saved the Union.

	MRS. MARY A. DAVIS of North Sutton,
N. H., is chairman of the school board in
her town. She is also, it is said, the sec-
ond woman appointed notary public in New
Hampshire.


MRS. HATTIE M. WATERBURY, of Chip-
ley, Florida, has been appointed a notary
public for the State at large, by Governor
Mitchell. Among other legal acts she can
perform the marriage ceremony.
	MISS MARY ABIGAIL DODGE, better
known under her pen name of Gail Hamil-
ton, died of paralysis, Aug. 17, at her home
in Hamilton, Mass., aged 66 years. She
was one of the wittiest and most forcible
writers of her day, and has made her mark
in politics, religion and philanthropy. Her
published works consist principally of c[-]l-
lections of fugitive writings called out by
passing events, of which she was a close
observer and keen critic. She took for a
pen name the last syllable of Abigail and,
with the name of her birthplace, Hamilton,
formed the pseudonym “Gail Hamilton.”
	Some interesting details are given in the
Australasian Review of Reviews concerning
the recent general election in South Aus-
tralia. The occasion was the first time that
women have exercised the franchise, and
if any doubt existed as to whether women
themselves desired to be clothed with func-
tions of a comple[-]e citizenship, the ballot
boxes were a final answer to that doubt.
The rolls included 77,494 male adults and
59,066 women voters; the act of voting
for South Australian women, was of course
new and strange, yet they voted in solid
battalions, and, as the small number of in-
formal votes showed, with signal intelli-
gence; and the percentage of voting among
women voters was quite as high as that of
the stronger sex. The women of South
Australia, in a word, take the franchise
quite seriously.—Ex.


DR. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON.
Instructor in the School of Ob-
stetrics and Nursing.
	The winter session opens Oct. 12, 1896, with
greatly improved facilities for education in this
important branch of study. Reduced prices to
societies. For further information communicate
with Ellis R. Shipp M. D., 75 Center St. Salt
Lake City. Telephone 555.

CLASS IN MIDWIFERY
	DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT will commence
the winter class in midwifery October 7, 1896.
Several situations in small families for board.
Special terms to students sent by the Relief
Society. For farther particulars please com-
municate with 	DR. PRATT,
226 Constitution Bldg., Main Street,
Salt Lake City, Utah.

R. K. THOMAS
Removed to 48 and 50 Main St.
SALT LAKE CITY.

The Leading Retail
Cash House
R. K. THOMAS


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

The Rights of the Women of Zion, and the Rights of the Women of all Nations. 49

