[Vol50 | June 1963 | Page 416 | Fiction | Tuesday Is Relief Society Ruth | Nicholson Pepper]
"You should come one 'Tuesday with me to Relief Society, Mrs. Renton, when you're feeling better. You would enjoy it," answered Marjorie, hoping upon hope that Mrs. Renton wasn't going to launch forth on the subject of health. Not now anyway. ORMALLY, Marjorie was only too happy to take time off to listen sympathetically to Mrs. Renton's troubles, with her indifferent health and her teenage family worries, but time was fast running out. Anxiously, she glanced at the kitchen clock. Four minutes to lock up and get to the end of the block. "Thank you, dear, I will one of these days." Mrs. Renton took the packet of spice. "I suppose I'm holding you up." Thankfully, she saw Mrs. Renton slowly get to her feet. "That's all TUESDAY IS RELIEF SOCIETY right, Mrs. Renton. I'm all ready. I've just to lock up the back door, then we can both go through the front,' she answered. "Better not forget young Chris." Mrs. Renton chatted on, following her, as she went for Chris, who was playing gaily on the floor, surrounded by half his entire wardrobe — rompers, shirts, socks, and pants. What a mess — but it would have to wait until she returned. Scooping up the little fat bundle, she hurried through to her bedroom and slid her stockinged feet into her high heels, then back again into the kitchen. "All ready?" Mrs. Renton asked, and as Marjorie picked up her basket, she nodded. "Yes, I think Pll just make it," she answered. She locked the front door behind them, and as they went up the path, Marjorie found herself half running, half walking, unconsciously chafing at having to match Mrs. Renton's ponderous steps. "What are you doing this morning at Relief Society?" her neighbor asked curiously. "You seem to have good lessons, judging by those Magazines you lend me." "It's work meeting morning. We are discussing home management. It's good for me,' Marjorie said hurnedly. "Then Sister Peterson promised to teach us smocking afterwards." 'Then she remembered. "Oh, dear, ['ve forgotten my sewing things!" She looked at Mrs. Renton, undecided. Had she time to slip back and get them? If the clock had been nght,. The bus was due any moment. 


 UT the decision was made for lner. "Here, give me Chris and I'll walk to the bus with him," said Mrs. Renton, suddenly brisk. "If the bus comes I'll ask the driver to wait a moment for you." With thanks for her helpfulness, Marjorie handed over her baby and dashed back to the house, running to her sewing box and popping the articles she would need into her basket. Slamming the door and locking it behind her again, she glanced up the path. A red-haired salesman, brief case in hand, greeted her cheerily. "Not today — [ll miss my bus," she almost panted. "Sorry!" And she ran past him, out of the gate and up the street once more. The bus passed the top of the street, slowing down to a halt just around the corner of the block. Mrs. Renton, with little Chris, was nowhere in sight. She hoped the driver could be persuaded to wait! As she rounded the corner, the bus was still there. Mrs. Renton was walking towards her, with her married daughter, who had apparently just got off the bus. But where was Chris? Mrs. Renton was carrying her own little grandson. "Chris is on the bus — a lady has him." "Thank you." Marjorie tried to smile, but couldn't help feeling annoyed that her neighbor had given her son to a stranger to mind. Suppose the bus had gone? She did not have time to dwell on it, though, and she was glad to jump on board. 'The bus began to move off even before she had thanked the driver for waiting or 414 paid her fare. Slipping her ticket into the basket, she glanced around at the faces before her, searching for her baby. Curious faces stared up at her; disinterested faces turned away — blank faces. No Chris. Must be up the back, Marjorie thought, and as the bus gathered speed, she walked unsteadily up the aisle looking to each side for the woman who had her baby. Y the time she was two thirds of the way along the bus and she could see all the occupants, she felt a small niggle of doubt in her heart. Where was Chris? Don't be silly, Marj, she told herself, as she turned around, he's probably up in front, after all. But he wasn't. Panic rose in her throat like a choking hand, and as she looked around frantically, the bus almost swaying her off her feet, she tried to stay calm. 'Trembling, she made her way back to the driver. She must ask him to stop and let her get off. 'There had been a mistake. Her baby was not on the bus. Just as she was about to speak, a woman came up behind her. Darkhaired and slim, she smiled in a hard way, pointing to Marjorie's Relief Society Magazine in_ her basket. "If you want to know where your baby is, look on page 27, and be there at noon today." Hardly knowing what she did, Marjorie obeyed, sinking into an empty seat beside her. Page 27 — it was a picture of a park. A park? She did not understand. She did not understand anything! Marjorie looked up for the woman to explain, but she had gone. Unbelievingly, the word kidnapped went through her mind. The woman, the red-haired salesman, Mrs. Renton — had they all been in the plot to kidnap her baby? What was happening? Where was her baby? She must stop the bus. She was weeping now, the tears rolling down her cheeks. "Stop the bus — please — my baby — I've lost my baby!" She could hardly speak for the sobs in her tight throat, and the bus driver did not hear hon "Mv baby." TUESDAY IS RELIEF SOCIETY GOMEONE began to shake her by the shoulder, gently and insistently, and her husband's sleepy voice was at her side. "Wake up, sweetheart — you're dreaming." "What? It's Chris." She opened her eyes and saw Don in the darkness. "I'm dreaming," she repeated, still not quite awake, and she could feel the wetness of her cheeks. Slowly she smiled with utter relief. "Thank goodness." When morning came it would be Tuesday, and she would go to Relief Society.