[Vol50 | June 1963 | Page 409 | Poem | Rhymed or Pattern Free — Frontispiece Alberta H. Christensen Strange Loneliness | Christie Lund Coles]
[Rhymed or Pattern Free — Frontispiece Alberta H. Christensen Strange Loneliness Christie Lund Coles]

The man who restored the gospel 410 Joseph Smith Part I — Presipenr BricHAaMm Younc and the organization of the Church, the Prophet Joseph Smith, he regarded as the greatest man who had lived since Jesus Christ of Nazareth. Following are a few of the comments which President Brigham Young made, during his lifetime, about the Prophet Joseph Smith: "What I have received from the Lord, I have received by Joseph Smith; he was the instrument made use of" (Journal of Discourses 6:280). "I feel like shouting Hallelujah all the time, when I think that I ever knew Joseph Smith, the Prophet, whom the Lord raised up and ordained, and to whom he gave keys and power to build up the Kingdom of God on earth and _ sustain it. These keys are committed unto this people, and we have power to continue the work until everything is prepared for the coming of the Son of Man" (Ibid., 3:51). "Joseph Smith has laid the foundation of the Kingdom of God in the last davs; others will rear the superstructure" (Ibid., 9:364). E HO can say aught against Joseph Smith? I was as well acquainted with him as any man. I do not believe that his father and mother knew him any better than I did. I do not think that a man lives on the earth that knew him any better than I did, and I am bold to say that, Jesus Christ excepted, no Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian better man ever lived or does live upon this earth. I am his witness" (Ibid., 9:332). "Many of the Prophets have sealed their testimony with their blood, that their testament might go forth with force and not return void. As in ancient days, so in modem days. When Joseph Smith sealed his testimony with his blood, his testament from that moment was in force to all the world; and woe to those who fight against it" (Ibid., 19:5). "The question was asked a great many times of Joseph Smith, by gentlemen who came to see him and his people, "How is it that you control your people so easy. It appears that they do nothing but what you say; how is it that you can govern them so easily?'