[Vol50 | June 1963 | Page 435 | Special Feature | Essentials of the Short Story Rosa | Lee Lloyd]
Lloyd, who is already well known to readers of the Magazine, is the author of "Essentials of the Short Story," on page 424 of this issuc of the Magazine. 431 432 A Patio Dinner for Summertime by Linnie F. Robinson, eMWlenu (Serves twelve) Roast leg of lamb, surrounded by broiled peaches, with mint jelly, and browned potatoes (There will be some of the meat left over, which can be sliced or cubed and used for other dinners) Crenshaw summer salad (A large cantaloupe or casaba may be substituted for the Crenshaw melon) Relishes, as desired Hot rolls or baking powder biscuits (See "Baking Day at Home," The Relief Society Magazine, September 1962, page 672.) Spinach, with onions and toast Fudge cake, with ice-cream balls and chocolate sauce ROAST LEG OF One 6 - 8 Ib. Leg of lamb boned and stuffed with ground veal. Season with salt and pepper, freshly ground. Place on rotisserie or in oven at 300° and bake 4 hrs. Baste with currant jelly or in its own juices. Serve while hot, a must for lamb. LAME pPPmearararr MATA TALS Select 3 Ibs. Of potatoes 2 to 3 inches in diameter. Wash and cook in salted water until done, peel, and set aside until meat is ready, then fry in your favorite fat until brown. Keep shaking the pan so the potatoes will brown evenly and will not stick. WITH MINT JELLY (fresh, canned, or frozen peaches) BROILED PEACHE: Twelve or more peach halves, drained and each one filled with a teaspoon of green mint jelly. Place peaches on broiler pan and set in cool place until meat is done. Then broil for a minute to get the peaches hot and place alternately with the browned potatoes around the lamb. Serve at once. CRENSHAW SUMMER SALAD 2 c. Watermelon balls 2 c. Banana chunks 1 large Crenshaw melon, chilled 1 large pkg. Cream cheese (dipped in pine- 2 c. Large ripe apple juice to strawberries keep from dis- 1 C. Pineapple coloration ) chunks 1 ¢C. Seedless grapes 1 pkg. Slightly sweetened coconut Peel the melon down to where it ls good to eat, and slice off the top and the bottom so it will stand upright, remove ~ the seeds and membrane, and wipe the sides dry with a clean absorbent towel. Prepare cream cheese by softening with milk or cream and spread over the outside of the melon. If you spread as soon as the melon is wiped, the cheese goes on easily. Fill melon with fruits from the top and place on tray with a carving set. Cut some slices but leave melon standing, 434 so guests may have some of the melon as well as the fruit. The melon itself may be prepared ahead of serving time and put in the refrigerator. Do not put in fruit until ready to serve. Sprinkle the outside of the melon with coconut. Garnish with strawberries and sliced bananas. SPINACH WITH ONIONS AND TOAST 2 pkgs. Fresh (or frozen) spinach 1 bunch green onions, minced fine 3 slices of bread buttered on both sides and toasted Bring spinach to a boil in %4 c. Water, or wilt, turning and slicing with a sharp knife until properly wilted. Remove from heat and add the minced onions, and in a few minutes add the toast broken into pieces, about 1% inch squares. Serve as soon as possible. This dish will keep, if it is kept warm only until the other foods are ready for serving. FUDGE CAKE WITH ICE-CREAM BALLS AND CHOCOLATE SAUCE 12 Ice-cream balls 1 fudge cake made from baked in angel strawberry ice food tin, and cream iced 1 c. Chocolate sauce Make ice-cream balls ahead of time, and put on wax paper on tray to freeze hard. Bake your favorite fudge cake in an angel food tin, cool, and ice, and at serving time place on a tall cake dish and heap ice-cream balls on top. Pour on sauce. Serve at once. CHOCOLATE SAUCE 1 tbsp. Butter % c. Canned milk powdered sugar to thicken, as needed 1 square chocolate melted over hot water 6 large marshmallows cut fine Melt chocolate over hot water and add milk. Stir in marshmallows. Remove from heat and add butter and powdered sugar as needed to thicken to the desired consistency. Cool and pour over icecream balls on top of cake. "We Narrows approaching Raft Sund _g @ BERGEN DSTERRISOR NORRE SUNDB i AALBORG DENMARK ae COPENHAGEN I Sj NORWAY a Road by the Sea Claire Noall N the summer of 1962, I found the scenic beauty of our coastal cruise be- " tween the mainland of Norway and its chain of islands enriched by the thought that our early missionaries must once have sailed these waters. 'They perhaps trekked a path similar to the one I was looking at from the deck of our excursion ship — an unpaved road paralleling the sea along the base of verdant, snow-patched mountains. The larger islands and the mainland rose precipitously. All coasts were indented, some tremendously so by the glacial-carved fjords. In places there was little evidence of population. But, as I gazed at the road, in my heart's pride I pictured two young men — Book of Mormon and satchel in hand — following this lonely path. I thought of the elders traveling both by sea and by land to spread the gospel message in this country. 435 Photo by author Ancient Village Near Head of Sognefjord Frequent farmsteads enlivened the narrow strip between ocean and mountain slope wherever the rocks had decayed sufficiently to make the ground arable. Yet, in those northern waters, there were still great stretches of unoccupied coastline. Occasionally, like a chain of beads, the villages strung along the coast, anywhere from two to a dozen farmsteads being grouped as a single settlement. In July, in suddenly radiant life like lovely — jewels, fields of brilliant yellow flowers embroidered the narrow shoreline. In places villages gave way to cities, some being built on clustering islands, making a waterway of streets. Handsome bridges crossed some of these waterways. Parents, children, and infants in prams queued up at the gangplank at almost all the stations where the coastal steamer docked. In summer, people travel two hundred miles for an hour's visit in another city; young folk embark on honeymoons, friends crowd the quay to greet passing relatives. 'The ships carry local passengers by the hundreds, cargo by the bale, and a few tourists on each journey. Always, it seemed, wherever our ship docked, the immediate waterfront would give way to steeply tiered homes, then to enormously high mountains, barren except for the green of the moss and the low shrubs which crowded the granite and the snow. In this landscape it might be reasonable to suppose that the heart of man would bear a somber streak; but there is evident a tender and a happy vein. Only a well-balanced people could face life in such a climate and on such a land. Surviving from a rich sea and a poor, meager soil, strong in their ancient traditions, people of such a race do not easily give up their established religion. 436 Photo by author Village Church, Ulvig ——— " Photo by author LL this I knew, and yet I was aware of the Norwegian contribution of sturdy and faithful saints who gathered to the Rocky Mountains of America in the early days of the Church. I was aware also of those present saints in Norway who have built up and maintain thriving branches in this rugged land. For many years (1851-1905), Norway formed a part of the Scandinavian Mission. Then the Danish-Norwegian Mission was organized. In 1920 the Norwegian Mission was created. So the gospel net was spread in this magnificent northern land. Elder Erastus Snow, a member of the Council of the Twelve, introduced the gospel into the Scandinavian countries in 1850. One of the first converts was Hans F'. Petersen of Aalborg in Northern Denmark. In September 1851, Elder Petersen was requested bv Elder Snow to journey to Norway and begin missionary work in the land of the steep mountains and the great fjords. Elder Petersen took passage on a sailing vessel bound from Denmark to @stcrissgr, a city on the Oslo Fjord in Norway. However, Elder Petersen had neglected to obtain a passport, and so he returned to Denmark. The captain of the ship which carried Elder Petersen on this voyage to and from Norway was Svend Larsen, a devout Norwegian who became interested in the gospel through the efforts of Elder Petersen. He was baptized on September 23, 1851, and became "the first fruit of the gospel in Norway." In October of 1851, Elder Petersen returned to Norway and in the following November two converts were baptized. From this small beginning, the members of the Church increased, and by July 16, 1852, the first branch in Norway was organized in the city of Osterissgr, with John Olsen as presiding elder. 'This branch was composed of eightccn members. In the month of August, a small vessel "The Lion of Zion" was purchased, and this good ship made many journeys along the coast of 437 aR MT H ardangerfjord Norway, in and out of the precipitous fjords, and among the rock-bound islands. Back and forth between Denmark and Norway, the small ship sailed and many faithful Scandinavians heard "the gospel's joyful sound." Soon branches were organized in Frederikstad and Brevig, and Elder John A. Ahmansen became President of the Norwegian area of the Scandinavian Mission. So the gospel was taken to Norway, and the saints rejoiced and shared the glad tidings with their neighbors. N 1870 a group of missionaries arrived in Trondheim, the first capital of Norway, a magnificent city located on a deeply sculptured fjord which cuts more than half way through Norway at this point of the narrowing of the land. At this time, on the island of Frgya, the uttermost island beyond Trondheim towards the Atlantic, lived an "eager, highly intelligent fishermaiden,' Anna Karine Gaarden, and her lovely sister Petroline — two Norwegian girls destined to find a later home in a western land "in the tops of the mountains." As we traveled northward along this rugged and uplifted shore — northward beyond Trondheim, I thought of the story of the girlhood of Anna, how she watched the eider duck, followed by her fledglings, sailing the swells of the waves around the island of Frgya, and I, too, watched for the pattern of wings. 'The waterways were treacherous, with numerous submarine reefs. Few pilots, in Anna's time, could safely bring a ship to port. Anna and Petroline were the daughters of a sea captain, and their father had told them something of the world beyond the Norwegian coast. In 1870 Anna married a young schoolteacher, John Anders Widtsoe, from the Norwegian mainland, and in 1874 the young couple established a fine home in Namsos, a coastal city some eighty miles north of 'Trondheim. Traveling past these villages and cities so dear to the hearts of the 438 Photo by author Native Fruits, India and nutmeg. Place in slow oven for an hour. This is made with the canned fruit. This fruit bake is delicious with any roast, if one tablespoon of curry powder is used in place of the cinnamon, ginger, and nutmeg. Finger Cookies The dessert is a favorite of Koreans. The finger cookies are made from the following recipe, but any favorite plain cookie will do. 1 c. Shortening 2 c. Granulated sugar 3 @§ES 3% to 4 c. Flour tsp. Salt tsp. Baking powder tsp. Almond extract ~ Ne Cream the shortening and sugar together; add eggs and flavoring and beat until fluffy. Sift flour, measure, and add salt and baking powder. Add to the wet ingredients. Stir until a medium soft dough is formed. Chill for several hours. Roll very thin and cut into "finger cookies," approximately % of an inch wide and 3 inches long. Place 1 inch apart on greased cookie sheet and bake at 350° for 8 to 10 minutes or until a light golden brown. For serving, a bowl of hot honey, a bowl of finely chopped pinenuts, and a platc of the cookies is provided for each group of diners. All dip their cookies into the samc dish of honey, then into the pinenuts, before each bite. For the main dish — a mound of rice — large or small according to one's appetite, is placed on the plate. Over this is spooned the hot curried chicken. On top are heaped the boys, a generous spoonful of each. On the buffet, place the chafing dish of rice first, then the curried chicken (also in something to keep it hot), then the row of boys. Or the boys may be placed in a circle around the two main dishes.