[Vol50 | June 1963 | Page 426 | Fiction | His life's Savings | Frances Yost]
His Life's Savings Frances Yost A NN Lindley wished she had a -\_ private room instead of being in the maternity ward. It would take care of this... This embarrassment of not having any Mother's Day presents to exhibit. The other three young mothers had such an assortment. It was rather hard to keep smiling and saying "How lovely, how nice," and never be able to unwrap a gift and say "See what I have." Only yesterday when the three of them had been chatting, Carma Rogers and Reah Summerlaid had come right out and said they didn't have money to pay for their hospital care, and the doctor would simply have to wait for his fee. Today, they were accepting all sorts of presents from their husbands. It seemed rather false economy to Ann. Yet, from the looks of things, she was the one not in harmony, the one out of step. Because she was married to a sensible man, who put first things first. Les was one to pay his bills even though it never left anything for frills. But how could you explain that to two inexperienced young mothers? She wouldn't try. Ann turned over in her bed and faced the green wall. Green was supposed to be soothing. She guessed she was just tired of these hospital walls. She thought of the pale blue wallpaper in her bedroom at home, with the tiny pink roses. Some people might call her wallpaper "busy," but it surely was com- 416 forting to her. Ann wished she was there, with little Mike and Ricky close by, and the new baby there, too. Presents didn't really matter. Yes, she would have to chalk this miserable feeling all up to homesickness. Surely she wasn't jealous of another's gifts. Things had never been too important to Ann. People were the important thing. Ann wished Les would come. She looked at her wristwatch. Visiting hours would be over in ten minutes. She wondered if Les had taken the little boys to Sunday School. He probably had, that was why he was late getting here. Surely he would come to see her... On Mother's Day. Ann closed her eyes and pretended sleep. If the others in the room thought she was asleep, they would stop their chatter about gifts for awhile. Ann wished she could actually sleep, not just have to lie here and pretend. No, she must not cry. That would be rather silly, downright childish to break down and cry. She was a big girl now, a mother with three little children. She smiled, thinking about her children. Mike was seven and enrolled in school. He could print so nicely. Ricky was three, and of course, there was baby Sue now, almost a week old. Ann would like nothing better than to be home, in her own bed. She could visualize the picture so plainly, the little boys peeping over the edge of the bed, watching baby Sue as she quietly slept in her arms. Ann felt tears coming in spite of herself. She reached under her pillow for her handkerchief. She knew the hospital provided disposable tissues, but to reach a tissue, she would have to turn over to the night stand. If she lay here on her side, the others would still think she was asleep. It was good not to hear chatter about candy, flowers, fancy nighties, and things. 'STARLING, are you asleep? I'm sorry I was late getting here, Ann." Ann opened her eyes. She guessed she had dozed off after all. She looked up. Les was smiling down at her, so handsome and solicitous. What was he saying? "Ann, the doctor said it would be all night for you and baby Sue to go home today. Aunt Beth said she would be most happy to stay on and help out as long as we need her. Do you want to slip on your clothes and go home?" "Oh, Les, I'd love to go home." Les reached in his pocket, took from it a slip of paper, and handed it to Ann. "A receipt from the hospital, paid in full." Ann smiled at him. "Got one from Doctor Simonson, too." Les beamed. "That's a mighty fine Mother's Day present, to have one's baby all paid for, the very best." "Mother's Day! I guess I forgot all about that." Les looked sheepish. "That reminds me. Mike sent something. He asked me to be sure and give it to you." HIS LIFE'S SAVINGS Les reached in his breast pocket and brought out an envelope and handed it to Ann. "What is it?" "Search me. Mike said it was a secret, special for Mommie. He's a pretty excited boy about it, though." Ann was all thumbs as she tore open the smudgy envelope. She pulled out a card. She remembered having seen the card. It had come to Mike on his birthday several months ago. At the top he had carefully erased his name and printed Mother. At the bottom he had carefully erased "From Grandma" and printed "from your children." Over the "Happy Birthday" was pasted a clipping from the daily paper advertisements which read Mothers Day. 'True, the whole thing was a seven-year-old job. The evidence was there, he had done it all himself. It was mighty nice to be remembered. Just then a tiny envelope fell from the card. "What's this?" Ann asked. "Search me." Then Les added proudly, "We have quite a boy, our Mike." Ann ran her fingernail under the flap and loosened the seal without tearing the envelope. Out fell two dimes and a nickel. Mike had been saving his money for a long time. Ann knew it was for something special. She had supposed it was something for himself, but he had given it to her. Ann couldn't look up into Les' eyes just yet. She wasn't quite ready to smile. Something was happening to her heart. Her tiny son had remembered Mother's Day all by himself.. He had given of himself, all (Continued on page 479) 417 Irmagene N. Holloway Safety Program Specialist, Division of Accident Prevention Public Health Service, U. S. Department of Health, Education, and Welfare T is night. The telephone rings. Half awake, you quickly jump out of bed for a race to the phone. You fail to turn on the electric light, because the switch is on the other side of the room. You hurry to answer the phone and, since you are still drowsy, you trip on a rug or over a stool or chair, and fall... An accident! You are the loser — and not just in the race to the phone. The result is time spent recuperating, money paid out for medical attention, and pain. The green light changes to amber, and amber to red, as you attempt to walk across the street. You halt suddenly, but not quickly enough. A speeding motorist hits you, and you drop to the street unconscious — time lost, money spent, and pain suffered — another tragedy. These stories do not describe pleasant pictures, but you know that each of them happens almost every day. "Why?" you ask. Someone failed to think. 'That person did not consider his course of action or examine and make safe his physical 418 environment. Each accident in the past had causes; each accident in the future will have causes. The reasons will be definite and specific. No one knows the time, the manner, or the place where an accident will happen to him. It seems to be a common philosophy to think that an accident will happen to that other fellow. "It couldn't happen to me" has haunted safety personnel for years. For too long people interested in preventing accidents have been haunted by one other phrase, too: "Accidents are a matter of fate." Each day we read of someone's life being cut short by an accident. This is not a hopeless situation, however. 'There are many ways in which one can live safely in an everincreasingly hazardous environment. This means knowing what to do and performing in a safe way. This pattern for safe conduct should become part and parcel of our living experiences. How to do it is a question for all of us. First of all, we must recognize that accidents are in some ways like a disease. And as such, the causes need to be found and programs developed which will enable the person to know how to prevent them. It is scientific information that ls needed: the why, the where, the to whom, and what can be learned to prevent accidents. The question: "Where do most accidents occur?" has an interesting answer. Most accidents occur in a place where you least expect them to occur — this is in the home. In traffic, as a pedestrian and as a driver, you expect to find them, and you do. In the National Health Statistics from the United States National Health Survey, 1962, we find "45 million persons per year sustained injuries requiring medical attention or causing restriction of usual activities for a day or more 18,772,000 were injured in the home." Fatalities in_ traffic have now reached the 40, coco mark for one year. ACCIDENT statistics deal in numbers and are meaningless until they are related to human beings. As Christians, we are interested in the individual and in ways to free him from accidents as much as from polio or smallpox. It is true that we react to statistics with our own prejudices and knowledge. If a member of our family has experienced an accident, this accident category in a listing of statistics has a different meaning than if no one close to us had been injured. The Public Health Service views accidents as in some ways comparable to disease. Our unique contribution is an application of the SAFETY MAKES SENSE technique of epidemiology, i. E., to find the source of the disease and treat it accordingly. To do this we employ scientific observation and inductive reasoning to develop an understanding of mechanisms of disease and accidental injury. In traffic accidents, we would seek information about the car, the driver, and his passenger; about the environment, the road, the weather, or the lighting; and the agent, the automobile. 'To prevent accidents one or more of these groupings may need to be modified. Malaria was controlled by depriving the carrier insects of a home — draining swamps or spraying them with insecticide. Finding the causes of accidents can be a way to prevent them in the future — by eliminating or minimizing the hazard. Something can be learned from each accident. Listen to its message and incorporate into your pattern of living those techniques which will prevent a recurrence. And, what is equally important, this information should be shared with others. To be afraid of having an accident is not a means of prevention. Rather, fear may cause you to become mentally and physically tense. This in turn prevents freedom of movement and may be conducive to a mishap. Knowledge of what should be done reduces the chance of injury. Some of the things which specifically can be done by a mother: 1. Become acquainted with the Family Safety Plan. 'This is the family getting together to discuss what each person can do to prevent accidents in the home, on the street, Al9 JUNE 1963 and in recreational activities. Many parents live in a fool's paradise in their belief that a few laws, a few signs, and a few policemen will keep their kiddies safe. Safety, like charity, must begin at home. Work meetings offer an excellent opportunity to get the sisters discussing the hazards which exist in all our homes, and methods for eliminating them — that our homes may truly be a place of refuge. Guidelines for the family to use in teaching safety might include the following: a. Set aside one night a month for the meeting. For the home, assign each person a responsibility — Dad might be the safety engineer; mother, safety supervisor; and the children, inspectors. Each child should be assigned inspection jobs which correspond to his age and interests. B. Inspect the home for hazards. Home inspection blanks might be secured from the National Safety Council, from an insurance company, or the local health department. Perhaps families might develop a checklist for their first meetings. This would be the first step in teaching family members to recognize a hazard when they see one. C. Keep a record of the accidents or near-accidents experienced by the family members. Study the accident and find the causes, and use this information to teach others what they should do. This will serve as a guide for the accidentprevention program. D. Erect a family safety bulletin board. This will be a place to keep the family up-to-date on what to do and _ perhaps commendation of those who have made an important contribution. E. Plan fire exit drills. These should consider the family during the sleeping hours as well as during the day. It is too late after the fire starts to think of this; the wise family has this worked out with the hope it may never be used. 420 f. Conduct quizzes on the prevention of accidents. These can be obtained from newspapers, or from organizations interested in prevention of accidents. The Slogan for the Family Safety Council might be "The Family That Works Together For Safety — Stays Alive." 2. Plan for neighborhood safety discussion groups. This could be a neighborhood = discussion, I which would get women talking about ways and means of preventing accidents in their community. Consideration should be given to hazards which might be found in the home, on the street, or in recreation. 'The emphasis should be on the prevention of accidents, and not a testimonial of the gory details of the unpleasant experience. It should be analysis of the accident to find the causes. When the causes are determined, then ways to prevent this accident should be pointed out. As your safety plan is developed, it is wise to remember that most people know much more about what to do to prevent the accident than most of us think. These ideals must be brought to a conscious level of thinking. 'The slogan for such a group might be 'Each One Teach One to Be Safe." A mother could use this slogan for herself and family. Make the habit automatic, Of cleaning up the attic. No clean and careful dweller Keeps rubbish in the cellar. It's foolish to deposit Oily dusters in the closet. Make with fire no alliances, Check electrical appliances. Be watchful and be wise, And you'll save the family lives. ELLE S. SPAFFORD, General President of Relief Society, was given the Distinguished Achievement Award at Ricks College, Rexburg, Idaho, April 10, 1963. The award was presented by President John L. Clarke. Mrs. Spafford had been invited to speak at the Devotional Assembly, as a part of Women's Week, sponsored by the Associated Women of Ricks College. D*® ELIZABETH S. RUSSELL and her assistant Ann M. Michelson are a research team noted for their experiments in the field of muscular dystrophy. The two women, working under a grant from the Muscular Dystrophy Association of America, are on the staff of the Roscoe B. Jackson Memorial Laboratory at Bar Harbor, Maine. OAN BAEZ is one of the best ioved folk singers in the United States. Her voice has been described as "a strong, untrained, and thrilling soprano." Miss Baez represents a resurgence in popularity of a type of singing said to be descriptive of the "roots of the Nation." RS. RICHARD THOMPSON is director of costume research and design for the unique Shakespearean Festival of the College of Southern Utah in Cedar City. This festival has become an annual affair and this year will be presented July 8-24th. A completely. Authentic Shake

spearean wardrobe of the best and most exquisite materials, valued at $28,000, has been amassed at a minimum cost because of volunteer labor on the costumes. Mrs. Norman Child, who has _ previously played leading roles in several of the plays, will probably appear as an actress again this year. Barbara Gaddie, Iron County School District Speech and Hearing Therapist, will direct the "Recorder Society" in providing music of the "Recorder," an ancient flute-like instrument, and other instruments of the Elizabethan period. ARYHALE WOOLSEY, a contributor to The Relief Society Magazine, is the author of The Keys and the Candle, published in March 1963, by Abingdon Press. The main character in the story is a youth who, as a scribe, aids in the translation and preservation of the precious manuscripts of the Bible.