[Vol50 | June 1963 | Page 432 | General Feature | Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker FEATURES FOR | THE HOME]
[Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities Hulda Parker FEATURES FOR THE HOME]

It seemed to take Davy a long time to cross the room. At last he stood before Irene, his elfin face animated with pleasure. He was reluctant to give the baby up, but Kathy was growing loud. In her protest over the delay of her dinner. Almost reverently, Davy laid the infant tenderly in Irene's outstretched arms. He remained standing there, lost. His empty little arms were still cupped, as if Kathy Ella were still cradled there. Without warning, he spoke — "Baby." The sharp intake of Dick's breath was the only sound in the room. Irene gasped. Her voice was breathy when she finally managed to speak. "Oh, Davy!" Her words broke the shocked silence. Dick went down cn one knee beside them. "What did you say, fella?" His voice was husky with emotion. Davy's eyes were sparkling. He was enjoying their reaction im- -mensely. That enveloping grin took possession of his face as he tried the word again, "Baby." ICK gathered the three of them into his arms. 'There was a film in his eyes. He didn't trust himself to speak or to rise. Irene let tears of relief and joy run unashamed down her cheeks. The months of anxiety and frustration fell away into nothingness. All of it... Every bit of it had been worth the wonder of this one moment. KEEP MY OWN Davy delightedly kept repeating the magic word that had opened his lonely, wordless world. "Baby. Baby. Baby." Other words would follow. Wonderful, healing words. 'The awful seal of silence had been broken. The house resounded with unity and love. Davy's laughter, intermingled with Kathy EF lla's infant noises, were absorbed into the walls and drunk up by the rafters in every room as those family noises of the past had also been assimilated. For the first time Irene felt truly at home in the house. She felt that now she belonged there, just as the others belonged. She shivered, not with cold as she had shivered on that day in early spring, but with oneness, pleasure, belonging. I belong, she said over and over to herself. I really belong. The realization was pure enchantment. Dick helped her to bed. He leaned down and kissed her gently before he left the room. The whispering autumn leaves on the trees outside merged their voices with that of the house, and Irene fell asleep hearing all of them murmuring a sonorous song of "Welcome home, Irene. Welcome home." A NEW SERIAL "KISS OF THE WIND" TO BEGIN IN THE JULY MAGAZINE _ A new serial "Kiss of the Wind," by Rosa Lee Lloyd, will begin in the July issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The story takes place on a pineapple plantation in Hawaii, and relates the problems and the aspirations of a loving and closely knit family. Mrs.