[Vol50 | June 1963 | Page 476 | Lesson | Literature — America's Literature Briant | S. Jacobs]
Surfaces change, yes, in things and in that inner world which literature creates and sustains. As the United States has changed, so has her literature; were it not so the literature could not be true, and without integrity, nothing of value can either be created or survive. In America, as elsewhere, both in place as through time, her great writerartists bring us to ourselves. The year's lesson titles and objectives follow: Lesson 41 — Mark Twain, a Great American Conscience (1835-1910) Objective: To recognize Mark Twain's moral ideals and conflicts which shaped his literary art and his greatness.

Lesson 42 — Huck Finn's Initiation "ato Truth Objective: To understand and experience Huck's progression from innocence toward moral maturity. LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 43 — The Quickening Spirit of Emily Dickinson (1830-1886) Objective: To mtroduce ourselves to Emily Dickinson's mind and _ heart, first by entering her home, then her poctry. Lesson 44 — William Dean Howells, Democratic Realist (1837-1920) Objective: To define and exemplify American Realism by studying the life and writings of its prime spokesman. Lesson 45 — Robert Frost, Modern New England Classic (1874-1963) Objective: To discover Robert Frost through a sympathetic understanding of his poetry. Lesson 46 — Willa Cather, Lover of Life (1874-1947) Objective: 'To understand and enjoy the sustaming values of Willa Cather's world. Lesson 47 — Sinclair Lewis, Amertican Self-Satirist (1885-1951 ) Objective: To study and _ evaluate middle-class United States of America during the 1920's as represented in the life and writings of Sinclair Lewis. Lesson 48 — Carl Sandburg, American Folk Singer (1878- ) Objective: To understand and enjoy Carl Sandburg's substantial contribution to the American tradition. 475 - Se A FP "A AE SPAN EW I SOCIAL SCIENCE re Ee PE SC SE In BOE REP a A ats a le a gn ee er Divine Law and Church Government SE Se eee AVINIZaTION ANG orvcture Elder Ariel S. Ballif a piste Church is the body of believers, organized according to divine law. It is invested with the necessary rights, powers and authority to carry forward on earth the purposes of the Almighty Father as contained in his plan of salvation for his children on earth" (WwortSOE, Joun A.: Program of the Church, 1937 ed., page 24). In the various dispensations of time, God has instituted his government and offered his services to the human family. Having in mind the welfare of his children and being fully aware of the purpose of creation, he has revealed a system of government for his Church that would make possible peace on earth and good will among men. As has been pointed out in previous lessons, divine law is the wisdom, counsel, and guidance of God, giving direction to man so that he may attain perfection. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is the kingdom of God upon the earth. In it there is a fulness of the gospel. This means that all the advice, counsel, and direction (divine law) that God has revealed to man, to assist him in his quest for joy, happiness, and exaltation, have been restored. In the wisdom of the Creator, the 476 government of the Church is designed for the welfare and development of mankind. The Savior pointed out that the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. So with the government of the Church, it is so organized as to direct all the benefits of government to the growth and perfection of the governed. Divine law is communication from God through his servants, revealing the techniques of effective living, providing the pattern of life for the individual and the group that will produce happiness, progress, and exaltation. The organization of the Church is without flaw. 'The imperfection of man, the human element, is the limiting factor in its operation. The effectiveness of the Latter-day Saint Church government is dependent upon the faithful, dedicated response of the members to lay leadership. 'The Church does not have a professional ministry, but every member serves for the love of service. 'The Priesthood directs, and the membership anticipates the opportunity of serving. Activity is the essence of religious conviction and the recognition of divine authority. The Priesthood gives authorized direction in the performance of Church callings. In this series of lessons, we will become familiar with the structure of Church government. We will review each part and examine its function, at the same time being aware of the interrelationship of each part to the effectiveness of the government of the Church. The government of the Church is the Priesthood in action. The Priesthood is the power and the authority of God given to man for his enlightenment, righteous direction, and peaceful association. We will clarify the distinction between Priesthood line of authority and _ ecclesiastical line of authority, showing the function and importance of each to Church organization. Each lesson explores a part of the structure of Church government, setting forth its function and relating it to a unified whole. Lesson 8 — I Gor ¢ ) Objective: To help the members of Relief Society understand that Church government is the Priesthood or the power of God in action. Lesson 9 — The Organization of the C h J h Cl I Objective: To emphasize the divinity of the organization of the Church and the obligation this places on the membership of the Church. Lesson 1 7 ¢ ml - C f Objective: To acquaint Relief Society members with the importance of quorum organization and the obligation of quorum membership. — ae ie —_— oe se ee ee ee ee es ee ee ee ee ee THREE PART CHORAL MUSIC FOR SINGING MOTHERS a ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTILE—Madsen.20 _ COME YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER—Madsen.20 a o GIVE ME YOUR TIRED, YOUR POOR—Berlin 25 l I I 1 l l I I I I I I I I I I I pm GOSPEL GIVES I UNBOUNDED i STRENGTH—Schreiner._.30 I. HEAVENS ARE l I I l l I 1 I l I! I l I I l l l I TELLING—Haydn 200 022 26 ie LET NOT YOUR SONG END—Cain 00000 25 _—_ LORD BLESS THEE AND KEEP THEE—Madsen.20 we LORD IS MY SHEPHERD—Smart.20 a LORD'S PRAYER—Robertson...22 =. O LOVE THAT WILT NOT LET ME GO—Schubert.20 a, OMNIPOTENCE—Schubert.20 eee: OPEN OUR EYES—Macfarlane.25 Use this advertisement as your order blank Music Sent on Approval DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah \ ] I Please send the music indicated I above. C] On Approval ([] Charge 1 C] Money Enclosed I Ch MTLLAMALIMAILL eg 15 E. Lst South > Qa Q a ® " wv eee eee eee / salt Lake City 11, Utah I Lesson 11 — Quorum Relationship to Wards and Stakes Objective: To clarify the working relationship of Priesthood quorums to the operation of Church government. You re treated so well Lesson 12 — Church Courts (Councils of Justice), an Essential Part of Church Government Objective: To help establish an appreciation for justice and mercy in the divine Church. Lesson 13 — The Opportunity and Responsibility of a Calling in Church Government Objective: To stress the importance of each and every calling to the successful operation of Church government. Lesson 14 — Summary of Organizathe Zions tion and Structure of the Church Savings Bug, Objective: To emphasize the evidence of divine influence in the strucZions Savings & Loan offers ture and operation of Church governpremiums in service always — e Choice of savings plans e Confidentia