VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MAY 15, 1878	No. 24


[For the EXPONENT.
				TO QUERY,

AND ALL MY DEAR SISTERS IN ZION.

		"All the mothers are abroad to-day
		Guiding tiny feet along the way,
		Crowning tender brows with garlands gay.

		"But among the mothers we shall meet,
		Pausing oft to favor little feet,
		None will be so blest as I, my sweet.

		"None among the children is so fair
		As my baby with her golden hair
		Like the aureoles the angels wear."

								FLORENCE PERCY. 

	Dear friend, come lay your cool hand on my brow,
		Come count the measured beatings of my heart
	And know 'tis not my own and single woe,
		From all my precious sisterhood apart,
	That stirs such depth of feeling in my breast
		And wrings such bitter tear-drops from my eyes,
	For mine the noble mate of soul possessed
		Too great, too true to wear such selfish guise."

	Not his the tongue a scornful word to fling,
		To wonnd a sister soul and rankle there;
	Not his the heart to whisper I am king
		And she my subject now and evermore;
	Not he says haughtily This child is mine,
		But tenderly and proudly It is ours;
	And deems the marriage vow a pledge divine
		Of mutual bonds, and equal joys and powers.

	Frail, woman's strength and heavy is her load,
		But true her heart and full of love and trust;
	Does man so far excel that he dare boast
		"I am your head," and still say God is just?
	Nay, call this truth, upon a single throne
		The King and Queen together reign as one;
	No mine, no thine, no first nor last be known,
		But we desire our Father's will be done.

										LU DALTON.
St. George, May 7th, 1878.


[Column 1]

SCRIPTURE WOMEN.

BY HANNAH T. KING.
[concluded.]

	I now present another tableau in the life
of the sisters of Bethany, "Six days before
the passover, Jesus came to Bethany, where
he had raised Lazarus from the dead; there
they made him a supper, and Martha serv-
ed; but Lazarus was one that sat at table
with him. Then Mary took a box of oint-
ment of spikenard, very costly, and
anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped them
with her hair, and the house was filled with
the sweet odor of the ointment. Judas
who was present, objected saying, why was
not this ointment sold for three hundred
pence and given to the poor; not that he
cared for the poor, but he "carried the bag"
and was a dishonest man, and wanted to
handle the money. Then said Jesus "Let
her alone, against the day of my burial
hath she done this;" again did he sustain
her. From this time we hear no more of
Martha. Time passes, the Savior's life on
earth is drawing to a close; his life has
been one of obedience, and now approaches
his suffering death. At his crucifixion we
read that there stood by his cross Mary, his
mother, and Mary, the wife of Cleophas,
and Mary Magdalene; true unto the death
were these most remarkable and highly
favored women; they wait and watch all
through those tremendous sufferings, they
hear his last groan, his last words "It is fin-
ished;" still they wait till the body is taken

[Column 2]

down from the accursed tree. They see it
received by kind and appreciative friends,
laid in a new tomb, embalmed by sweet
spices, myrrh and aloes, according to the
order of the Jews, and robed in linen
pure and white, and all of his troubled life
is over. We pass on—"The first day of the
week cometh Mary Magdalene while it was
yet dark, unto the Sepulchre, and seeth the
stone taken away; she then goes to Peter
and other disciples whom Jesus loved and
tells them, they have taken away the Lord
out of the Sepulchre, and we know not
where they have laid him. The disciples
return with her, and make their own obser-
vations, they then go away to their own
houses; but Mary remained mourning at
the sepulchre, and stooping down she look-
eth in, and saw two angels in white, sitting
one at the head and the other at the feet
where the body of Jesus had lain; and they
say unto her, "Why weepest thou?" She
answered, because they have taken away
my Lord, and I know not where they have
laid him; and turning round she beheld a
personage standing by her, whom she
thought must be the gardener, and said to
him, Sir, if thou hast borne him hence, tell
me where thou hast laid him, and I will
take him away. Jesus saith unto her
Mary! she turned herself and saith unto
him Rabboni! How often have I pondered
on this most wonderful scene; I have pic-
tured it in my mind and tried to realize it.
How was it that she did not know him till
he pronounced her name? What was the
tone in which he uttered it? Why did she
instantly recognize him? Why were her
eyes instantly opened? Was it some tone
of peculiar graciousness, in which he had
at times addressed her? There must have
been some power, some intuition that flung
the veil from her vision as he pronounced
that ever pure and beautiful name, and she
answers it by another name, grand and
glorious Rabboni! I seem easily to realize
her tone, even her attitude, and the very
expression of her countenance yes even the
very sensations of her soul at that blissful
moment of her life! Did it not repay her
for all her sufferings? Methinks it was in-
deed the pearl dissolved in the acid cup of
life! I picture her throwing herself upon
her knees and stooping to kiss his feet, but
he exclaims, "Touch me not, for I have not
yet ascended to my Father! but go to my
brethren and say unto them, I ascend to
my Father and to your Father, to my God,
and your God! What gracious comforting
words are these, how they call forth the
love and worship of every Saint; how pas-
sive we feel under their god-like influence.
Blessed Mary! blessed Martha! blessed all
noble women upon the face of the wide-
spread earth! God loves them, they are
his special care; only let them be true to
themselves. Woman know thyself—study
thy divine mechanism; leave the science
of mathamatics if you must give up one;
but read yourself like an open book. Walk
through the length and breadth of your
heart and brain, and you will find the hand
of God has been busy there; see that you
render back some return to the Divine
Architect. The Scriptures say no more on
the Sisters of Bethany, but it is all written
in that book which has yet to be opened.

[Column 3]

	The next character the inspired penman
describes as a woman full of good works,
and alms deeds; by name, Tabitha or Dor-
cas; she took sick and died, and the friends
prepared her body for interment. They
then sent two men to Peter desiring that
he would not delay coming unto them; and
he arose and went with the messengers,
and they took him into an upper room
where the body was laid, washed and dress-
ed for burial; and all the saints and widows
stood by him weeping, and shewing the
coats and garments that Dorcas had made
while she was with them. But Peter put
them all forth and kneeled down and pray-
ed, and turning him to the body, said Ta-
bitha arise! and she opened her eyes, and
when she saw Peter she sat up, and he gave
her his hand and lifted her up; and when
he had called the saints and widows, he
presented her alive! and many believed on
the Lord.
	I have taken only the most prominent
women of Scripture, and even their charac-
ters are very brief in holy writ; I might
have elaborated them more, but I felt our
paper is small, and I must not exceed my
allotted space; enough has been said to ex-
cite interest in some minds that, perhaps,
have not made the old Scriptures much of
a study, but the models are fine and we
should study them.


MISCELLANEOUS.

	DEFINITION OF TRUE POLITENESS: "One
who listens with interest to things he
knows all about, when they are told by a
person who knows nothing about them."

	THE just-published report of an Irish be-
nevolent society contains one paragraph
rich in caustic humor. It says—"notwith-
standing the large amount paid for mede-
cine and medical attendance, very few
deaths occurred during the year.

	AT the recent close of the sittings in the
Illinois House of Representatives, the
clerk read the following: "I am requested
ed to announce that the Rev. Dr. Mc'Far-
land will deliver a lecture this evening in
the Hall "On Education of Idiots" mem-
bers of the Legislature are invited to at-
tend.

	THE novel which has attained the larg-
est circulation during the life of its author,
and the novel which has brought its author
the largest profit, were both written by wo-
men, viz., "Uncle Tom's Cabin," which is
believed to have sold to the extent of a
million copies, and "Daniel Deronda," which
has yielded £16,000.

	FOR some time after the fall of Napoleon
III., the Royal Family seemed not to un-
derstand how to treat the Bonapartes. The
Queen did not even visit her old friend the
Empress for nearly a month. But now the
friendship is established very safely. The
Prince of Wales and Prince Louis Napoleon
are great friends, and a constant series of
visits kept up between Chiselhurst and
Marlborough House.


186		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	The Fourth Annual Meeting of the Y.
L. M. I. A. of the First Ward was held
Apr. 2, 1878. After the usual exercises
and reading of the minutes, the President
Mrs. Sarah Graham alluded to their organi-
zation four years previous and the good re-
sults of their labors in spiritual improve-
ment, and closed by saying several of the
sisters of great wisdom and experience had
been invited to speak to them. Miss E.
R. Snow made some interesting remarks
and urged upon the young the necessity of
earnestness and prompt action in attending
to duties and responsibilities in the church
and kingdom of God. She spoke of the de-
sire of the saints to become Saviors upon
Mount Zion, and that it required the people
of God to help redeem the human family,
otherwise there was no attaining such a
high position, such blessings were not for
those who followed after the fashions of the
world; if any of us thought so we would
meet with disappointments, and she feared
that many would. Miss Snow remarked
that in many instances the young ladies
who had stepped forward in the organiza-
tions for improvement had exerted a pow-
erful influence for good over the young
men in their respective districts. She gave
much good advice to the President of the
Association in regard to the influence that
could be used with the young. She felt
the subject was inexhaustible and that we
required the aid of the Spirit of God con-
tinually in disciplining and molding the
daughters of Zion for future usefulness in
the church and kingdom of God. Mrs. M.
I. Horne thought many of the sisters did
not realize and fully appreciate the bless-
ings and privileges which were bestowed
upon them, said that those who lived near-
est to the Lord were the happiest under all
circumstances. Exhorted the young ladies
to honor the principle of Celestial Marriage.
Mrs. Horne dwelt quite earnestly upon the
principle of order and the necessity of in-
culcating it in the habits of our children at
an early age; thought that example was be-
fore precept with the young and regretted
that many mothers paid so little heed to
their own lives; made some excellent re-
marks upon economy and the management
of home; said that children should be
taught respect and obedience in early life;
said many other good things. Counselors
Agnes Campbell, Jane Van Tassell, Ellen
Hill, Miss Amy Adams, Mrs. M. G. Chase,
President of the Relief Society, and Mrs.
Margaret Steel her Counselor, all made re-
marks calculated to benefit and stimulate
the young ladies in their efforts to improve.
	Some business in the interest of the As-
sociation was transacted previous to ad-
journment. The good spirit seemed to rest
upon all present.
	AMY H. ADAMS, Secretary.

	PLEASANT GROVE, Apr. 24th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Not having been represented through the
columns of your much esteemed paper, for
some time, we herewith send a report of 
our progress. At our last monthly meeting
we were favored with a visit from a num-
ber of sisters from American Fork, who
spoke interestingly on experience gained
in this church, and bore faithful testimony
of the divinity of the Latter-day work; the
Spirit of God was present with us, and we
were mutually benefitted.
	Our Annual Report ending Jan. 6th, 1878,
reprensented the Society in a prosperous

[Column 2]

state financially. We have stock in Co-op
Store and Provo Factory, three city lots well-
fenced, where we have planted mulberry
and fruit trees, all these with property in
treasury amounting to $ 1,075. 10.
	The aged and infirm are cared for and
supplied with necessaries. We have not
been idle in the good work of storing grain;
we own a bin in the United Order Granary,
a substantial rock building just completed,
capable of storing one thousand bushels of
grain, having one hundred and fifty bush-
els on hand at present.
	We, as a society are striving to increase
our efforts for good and wish ever to be
found valiant in the cause of Zion.
	P. E. Brown, Sec'y.
	F. E. Stuart, Ass't.

	VIRGIN CITY, KANE CO., Feb. 15, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In our Relief Society the sisters are do-
ing the best they can under the circumstan-
ces. We cannot raise much wheat here,but
still we wish to store up all we can for Zion-
The sisters are now busily engaged in mak-
ing quilts, and as a general thing feel well,
and try to assist in all good works, such as
donating means for the building of Temples
and also helping to feed and clothe those
who work on them. The health of the peo-
ple of our little settlement is good, with
the exception of a few who have bad colds
We are having a heavy rain storm, the
first for a long time.
	SARAH A. WORKMAN

	HEBER CITY, WASATCH Co, Apr. 78.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	The Relief Society of Heber City was
organized June 7, 1869, Mrs. Margaret
Muir was elected President, Mrs. Ann Mur-
dock and Mrs. Mary Mc'Mullin, Counselors,
Mrs. Ann Harvey, Secretary, and Mrs.
Amelia Gallagher, Treasurer. The Society
numbers ninety-nine members, and has
supported three persons almost entirely for
a number of years, besides giving aid to
several others. We have erected and fin-
ished a commodious building one and a half
stories high for meetings and general busi-
ness of the society; cost estimated at from
five to six hundred dollars. We have pre-
sented the branch of the Church of Heber
City with a Silver Service for Sacramental
purposes, which cost eighty dollars; and
paid to the Deseret Silk Association, six-
teen dollars and twenty cents;also have one
share in the Co-operative Store, of ten dol-
lars; one share in the Tannery, twenty dol-
lars; and donated ten dollars to the Salt
Lake City Temple. We are now earnestly
considering the necessity of laying up
grain; Mrs. Ann Murdock and Mrs. Cath-
rine Foreman were appointed a committee
to attend to that business. We have been
assisted all through our labors and exer-
tions by the wise counsel of President
Hatch. The officers at present are as fol-
lows: Mrs. M. Muir, President, Mrs. A.
Murdock and Mrs. Jane Hatch, Counselors,
Mrs. Ellen Lee, Secretary, and Mrs. Louisa
Johnson, Treasurer.
	Yours very Respectfully,
		ELLEN LEE.

	ROCKPORT, May 4th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Our little Society was organized Septem-
ber 20, 1873 with twenty members, by Bish-

[Column 3]

ops' Atwood and Harder from Kamas, with
the the following sisters as officers:
	Ann Bryant, President,
	Elizabeth Vernon,		Counselors,
	Alice M. Malin,
	Sarah Staker, Secretary
	Charlotte Marchent, Treasurer.
	There has been donated to our Society
since that time..............................$	77 80
	Disbursed to the poor...........	23 80
	Salt Lake Temple................	23 80
	Indian Clothing..................	  9 70
	Wheat for storing..............	  3 00
	Centennial Flag...................	 13 00
	Silk Worms..........................	  3 00
	Lumber for wheat bin...........	  2 00
		Total				77 80
	Have now in Treasury in quilts
		and sundries...................	10 50
	Cash....................................	  7 25
		Total				17 75
	This last sum was obtained by making
articles and selling them.
	The Society raised twenty-two bushels of
wheat on a piece of land belonging to Bish-
op Edwin Bryant. After furnishing seed
last year we had on hand bought and donat-
ed, eight bushels, making on hand in bin,
thirty bushels.
	We held our yearly meeting April 1st,
1878. Teachers reported our members feel-
ing well. After the usual exercises the
sisters spoke to one another, exhorting to
good words and works. We are trying to
do the best we can and wish to be one with
other branches of the Relief Society in
Zion.
	Ever praying for the welfare of the
Daughters of Zion, we remain your sisters
in the Gospel,
	ANN BRYANT, President.
	SARAH STAKER, Secretary.

	FAIRFIELD, UTAH CO., April 16, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	We the Young Ladies' M. I. A., have
long wished to have a few lines in your lit-
tle paper to show our sisters and friends
that we have a welfare in Zion. Having
been reorganized we will let you know
what we are doing. Our society is very
small, our former president and a number
other sisters having moved away, leaves us
but few in number, although we feel deter-
mined to be united and do all in our power
to forward the great and mighty work in
these Latter-days. We have begun storing
grain and feel it a duty that all the Saints
should take interest in. We have had a
great deal of the opposite spirit to contend
with, although by adhering to good coun-
sel, also having faith and unity, we are
gaining ground, and feel greatly encourag-
ed, and know that there is encouragement
for all who seek faithfully for the paths that
our Savior trod. We meet every Tuesday,
and hold a conjoint meeting once a month.
Our prayers are fervent for all who seek af-
ter righteousness. We take the EXPO-
NENT which is a welcome friend, and wish
it success.
	Your sisters in the Gospel,
		Zilpha R. Young, President,
		Marintha Carson,
		Sophy Beesinger,	Counselors
		Sophy Beesinger, Secretary,
		Caroline Carson, Treasurer.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		187


ADIEU TO THE VIOLETS..

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	Farewell loved harbingers of Spring!
		Thy glory's past, thy reign is o'er,
	No more shall I thy beauties sing
		Thy luscious sweets inhale no more!

	How many a moment of delight
		Thy sweets bestowed thy presence gave,
	But now thou'rt fading from my sight
		And passing to thy humble grave!

	Tis ever thus, with things of earth
		The loveliest e'er the lost one is—
	But all must die that e'er had birth
		Though 'bodying all our earthly bliss.

	Though thou art gone, on memory's page
		Thy modest worth shall cling to me,
	And thou through life, in good or ill,
		My humble monitor still shall be.

	Like thee, may I in humble guise
		Far from the world live out my days
	Its pomps and vanities despise
		Upheld amid its luring maze—

	And when the hand of death appears
		Which no vain mortal can control,
	And friends have shed the parting tears
		And Christ, my God received my soul,

	Then raise for me no "storied Urn,"
		No gorgeous Temple be my bed,
	My native earth upon me turn
		And plant the Violet at my head;

	There, like that sweet and humble flower
		May I (the grave's cold winter past)
	Bloom forth again in Heaven's own bower
		When summoned by the trumpet's blast.

Salt Lake City, May, 1878.


[Column 1]

CORRESPONDENCE.

	LAIE, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
		April 8th, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	In my last I told you I would try and
glean some information concerning the cus-
toms and manners of this people, that would
be interesting to the readers of our paper.
When I see the habits of this people the
old saying is brought forcibly to my mind,
"one half of the world has but little idea
how the other half live." The males here,
as a general thing, take what we call the
heavier part of the house work, cooking
and preparing the food, and frequently do
their own washing and ironing. For a wo-
man to have a meal prepared for her hus-
band when he returns from work would, to
say the least, be out of the common course
of doing business here, not that the women
are lazy, but it is not customary. Many of
the women work in the field, and at many
kinds of out door work, to almost as good
advantage as the men. They make their
own clothes, and sometimes their husbands.
They are all good braiders, make their own
hats, which are very nice and becoming to
the people, and adapted to the climate; they
also braid a great many mats out of the 
Pandamus leaf, which constitutes the prin-
cipal part of the furniture of a genuine
Hawaiian house; they compose the floor, and
by adding a few extra ones at one end of
the room, they answer for bed and bed-
stead, and a smaller one to spread down in
the centre at meal time, is all that is neces-
sary for a table; some few have tables but
they are more for an ornament than for use.
They never think of spreading their food
upon them and sitting around them as we
do. It is becoming fashionable with the
more wealthy to have a few chairs in the
room, but a native seldom uses one, custom
having made the mat or floor an easier seat
for him.
	Their style of washing clothes is quite

[Column 2]

different and much easier, I think, than
ours. Taking them to the brook or spring,
they soak them and place them on a flat
rock, sit down and pound them with a
stick, or stone, until the dirt is out; pouring
clean water over them as they require it;
but clothes washed in this primitive way
do not last as long as they do with our more
mild treatment. This people are not epi-
cures, they do not require to be taught re-
trenchment, especially in their diet. as
their appetites scarcely ever crave more
than three or four kinds of food at the same
meal. Poi is the staff of life with them,
as bread is with us; the next most pal-
atable viand is raw fish, and also cooked
pork; after which comes what they call ex-
tras, li-mu (sea moss) na we, (a species of
shell fish) bannannas, etc., on this fare any no-
ble of the land could feast. Their habit how-
ever in irregular eating frequently leads
many of them to overload their stomachs,
and is the cause, I believe, of much sick-
ness among them.
	The District Conference for this Island,
was held at Honolulu on the 30th, and 31st
ult., at which a great many of the Saints
were present from different parts of the
island, as well as quite a number of unbe-
lievers. Her Majesty Queen Kapiolani at-
tended the services Sunday morning, and
gave attention to the teachings of Elders
J. S. Woodbury, H. P. Richards, J. Gates,
jr., and M. K. Hawaii, who bore a strong
testimony to the truth of the Gospel.
	Our regular Conference here closed on
the 7th inst , different branches on all the
islands being much better represented than
usual on such occasions. A good spirit was
manifested by all, and much valuable in-
struction was given to the elders both for-
eign and native.
	We are having a severe drouth which is
very detrimental to this little place. The
verdure on our once evergreen hills and
slopes, presents an appearance of having
been frost-bitten. Such an extreme drouth
has not been known for many years, which
is causing much suffering both to man and
beast.
	Your sister and fellow laborer in the
cause of Truth.
	J. E. MOLEN.


[Column 1]
		R. S. REPORTS.

	MAYFIELD, SANPETE CO., Apr. 28, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT :
	As we have not yet given any account of
our Society, we are anxious to do so. Be-
fore the reorganization of the Church we
were two societies; but we were called to-
gether at a special meeting appointed by
Bishop O. C. Olsen and Counselor Henry
Jenson, and Thomas A. Williams, and
were reorganized into one society on the
2nd of August, 1877. We have fifty-four
members and officers as follows: 
	Sina Neilson, President;
		Maria Olsen, 
		Elsey C. Christensen,	} Counselors.
		Etta Williams,
		Matilda Olsen,		} Secretaries.
		Sina Larson, Treasurer.
	We are most picturesquely situated in
this vicinity, but rather in a scattered con-
dition, a creek and a piece of farming land
being between the settlement. We have
our meetings twice a month and enjoy our-
selves together very much. The largest
portion of our town lies on the south side
of the creek, the meeting house being on
that side, and we have lively good meet-
ings, our brethren meeting with us occa-
sionally and giving us encouragement to go

[Column 2]
on in the work in which we are engaged.
We have a lot on the Public Square which
we intend to fence and plant with mul-
berry trees as soon as we can, we also have
a lot of two and a half acres on the north
side of the creek. We have one hundred,
and twenty-three bushels of wheat stored,
and some other means in our Treasury.
There are several numbers of the EXPO-
NENT taken in this place and we are very
much interested when we peruse its pages.
	May God bless and prosper all the sisters
that are engaged in the Latter-day work is
the prayer of yours truly, 	
			ETTA WILLIAMS, Seretary.

	CLARKSTON, CACHE CO. April 9th, ’78.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We were reorganized in a Young Ladies
Mutual Improvement Association, March
5th, 1877, by our Bishop John Jardine; of-
ficers as follows.
	Marinda Homer, President,
	Sarah Walker,
	Emily J. Homer,
	Sarah Clark,
	Isabel Morton,
	Huldah Malmberg,
	Margaret Archibald,	} Counselors
	Mary A. Homer, Secretary,
	Agnes Jardine, Treasurer.
	Since our organization we have donated
five dollars to the Salt Lake Temple; nine 
dollars to our new meeting house; and are
now trying to do something for the Tem-
ple at Logan. Our meetings are well at-
tended, in them we feel well and enjoy the
spirit of the Gospel. We desire to improve
ourselves by refraining from that which we
know to be evil, by trying to elevate and
cultivate our minds, and by being united
and doing all the good we can.	
	Wishing success to your valuable paper,
we remain your sisters in the Gospel,
			MARINDA HOMER, Pres't.
			MARY A. HOMER, Sec'y. 
	MINERSVILLE, BEAVER CO., Apr 15, 78.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you the Annual Report of our So-
ciety, read at our Annual meeting, which
shows our society to be in a prosperous con-
dition; we have laid up seventy-five bush-
els of grain, which we intend adding to as
fast as possible; we are anxious to do all the
good we can, and wish to try and carry out
in a proper manner, the counsel that is giv-
en us. We have commenced making straw
hats and hope to make this business a suc-
cess. A short time ago the sisters arrang-
ed a dance and picnic, and the brethren
turned out and fenced our city lot which we
intend setting out in mulberry trees as
soon as we can obtain them, for we wish to
be one wtth our sisters in trying to raise
silk. Our society numbers fifty members
and we hold our meetings every two weeks
when we receive good counsel and instruc-
tion from our president and many others of
the sisters. We are desirous of doing all
the good we can in this great work in which
we are engaged.
	Annual Report ending March 7, 1878.
	Donations to Temple		$ 24 75
	Donations received			50 37
	Property in Society			78 22
	Disbursements			118 32
	Balance in Treasury		35 02
	We remain your sisters in the Gospel,
		Polly Ann Zebriskia, President;
		Sarah Myres,
		Nancy Blackburn,	} Counselors.
		Susan Roberts, Secretary,
		Jane Corbridge, Treasurer.


188		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms; One copy one year, $2.00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MAY. 15, 1878.


FINIS OF VOLUME SIX.

THE present number closes the Sixth Volume
of the WOMAN'S EXPONENT. We trust our
patrons will make some effort to renew their
subscriptions promptly and also to extend the
circulation so as to enable us to enlarge it, or
make it a weekly. At the end of each volume
it has been the aim to do so, but money comes in
so slowly that as yet it has been utterly impos-
sible to do more than keep out of debt. It is
doubtful whether the women of this Territory
realize the power they hold in their own hands
for good, in having a newspaper in which they
can represent their views, and encourage all
home-industries. The WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
during the time of its publication, has done a
vast amount of home and foreign missionary
work, as we have an abundant opportunity of
knowing. We trust the numerous friends of
the EXPONENT will use their utmost influence
through the agency of women's organizations
in the Territory, to make the paper all that the
most earnest workers in woman's cause could
desire, by their help, their faith and their pray-
ers; and rest assured no pains shall be spared on
our part to sustain it.


[Column 1]

EDUCATE THE HEART.

	It is just possible there is a neglect in the
present age of hurry and bustle, of the culti-
vation of the affections. People are too anx-
ious to "get on in the world" to take time to
cultivate sentiment, and so one of the most
prolific sources of happiness is left barren. To
be sure novelists do this sort of thing and in
many cases the work is left entirely to them;
but generally their heroes and heroines are
only possessed of one selfish, passionate, all-
controlling love that absorbs every other gen-
erous attachment, and consequently the effect
is not to inculcate generosity of soul and lib-
erality of heart. This love cannot be defined
as sentiment in any wide sense.
	Everything now bands towards the cultiva-
tion of the mind, and if the balance is pretty
equally divided between the mind and the
body, one is apt to think that such a person is
likely to make life a success. But to every
human soul however prosperous life may be in
the aggregate, there is an abstract element of
sentiment that at times makes itself per-
ceptibly felt, if one's heart is not wholly hard-
ened in the pursuit of knowledge or of gain;
and this like an inward monitor leads one to
exclaim "All is vanity!"
	Sentiment in the broadest acceptation of the
term is something so elevating and inspiring
that it adds more to the true enjoyment of
life than all the learning we gather from
books. What is it gives such sweet content to
the humble cottager?  It is a true affection for

[Column 2]

family and friends; it is the genuine sentiment
of the heart springing from the fresh and pure
fountains within. In almost all natures this
element is spontaneous, until it is choked by
pride, or avarice, or torn up by harshness or
some other powerful controlling influence, de-
veloped by circumstances or education.
	What is life to the little child who grows up
without love? A barren dreary waste. To
some persons of strong mental or physical
powers that rule them wholly, life without
love may be made fruitful by working out an
enterprise or accomplishing some settled
purpose; but in nine cases out of ten, the
child who is not cherished with love is like
a solitary tree in the desert, which dies a
literal death for the want of nature's vegetating
nourishment, leaving a withered trunk devoid
of beauty, and roots dried up and sapless. It
has the sunshine, it has the soil, but it has not
the soft gentle rain, nor the moisture of the 
[-]ills beneath that silently invigorate the roots.
So is the child without love. Its tenderer na-
ture dies, it has not been nourished with that
affection that calls into play the finer qualities
of the heart, and it grows up without the soft-
ening, tender influences which make the spirit
pliable and the heart yielding. No life is so
full and complete as that into which enters all
the finer elements of pure and genuine affec-
tion. In persons possessing the highest culti-
vation of the heart we find the most exalted
appreciation of all the beauties of nature's realms;
the song of birds, the ripple of water, the sigh-
ing of trees, the lowing of far off kine, the bleat-
ing of lambs, and all the delightful sounds that
make up the harmony of nature's rhythm, the
soft and indefinable influences which thrill the
soul with music, and make pleasant the rough-
est way, and brighten the darkest path, strik-
ing a sympathetic chord in the soul which
echoes through all its holiest emotions.
	Jesus, in His teachings appeals constantly to
the heart, and seldom, if ever, refers to the in-
tellect. St. Paul declared "knowledge puffeth
up, but charity edifieth," and charity is one of
the finest qualities of the human heart. And
the logic that carries conviction to the heart is
true logic, and the sure testimony is that
which finds an echo in the soul. Faith is
another element which exists in the human
heart, and if cultivated, is most productive of
love, "perfect faith is born of perfect love."
	Mothers draw closely to you the hearts of
your children; never let any coldness spring up,
keep the fountain of love and affection ever
pure; you can do much towards making them
kind, tender and forbearing with love; do not
imagine that personal habits have nothing
to do with molding the feelings and principles
of your children. Let the associations in child-
hood be such as shall draw out the better and
kindlier nature, rather than the rough disciplin-
ing of harshness and severity by which many
a boy and girl have been driven to seek among
strangers the kindness they failed to find at
home.
	In the hour of trial that eventually comes to
all, in the time of sorrow, "when all things
earthly, seem empty," where does the heart
seek for consolation? In the Lord, yes; but how
dear are the tender ministrations of affection
for which instinctively as it were, the heart
yearns; then those who excel in superiority of
heart, whose kindly souls are fullest of
real sympathy are the best comforters. Heart
speaks to heart in the rich eloquence of tender-
ness and "we weep with those who weep," "we
mourn with those who mourn."


SCHOOLBOY'S THEORY:—Teacher: "How
is the earth divided my lad?" Ans. "By
earthquakes sir."


HOME AFFAIRS.

	REPORTS have been received from Tres Ala-
mis, Clarkston, Cedar City, Malad, Ephraim,
Rockville and Herriman, which we will give to
the public as early as possible. We have also
on hand other productions in poetry and prose,
but we solicit more matter from our contribu-
tors that we may be able to cull the best.

	MRS ELLIS R. SHIPP, M.D., having recently
returned from Philadelphia, has opened an of-
fice for practice in Bishop Hunter's former resi-
dence, on Main Street, well known to all old
settlers. Her advertisement appears now, for
the first time, in our columns. Mrs. Shipp hav-
ing thoroughly qualified herself for the profes-
sion, we trust will receive the patronage of the
public.

	WE CALL attention to the card of Dr. Ellen
B. Ferguson, in another column. This lady
who has been engaged in the practice of medi-
cine for the past fifteen years, has met with re-
markable success in the treatment of diseases
of children, especially diphtheria and other
diseases affecting the throat and lungs. We
would also announce that the classes in Music,
French and Drawing conducted by Dr. Fergu-
son, at her residence, will re-assemble next
week. She will also organize a class of young
ladies and gentlemen for the study of elocution
and dramatic reading.

	THE transit of Mercury which took place on
the 7th inst., gave to the scientists an opportu-
nity to test the photohelioscope, the invention
of M. Angot, which proved to be effective for ob-
servations of this nature and wi[-]l be useful
probably in witnessing the next transit of Ve-
nus in 1882. Photographic views were taken as
the planet traveled across the sun. It is ex-
pected the labors of these scientists during the
transit will materially aid in a more perfect
observation of the next transit of Venus, and
in determining the exact distance of the sun
from the Earth.

	CURTIS MATHEMATICAL MODELS: Mrs. Liz-
zie H. Shipp has the patented right of this
model and wishes to establish agents in city
and county for its sale on liberal terms. She
has located at Mrs. Rumell's millinery store on
Main Street, just below the Co-op Drug store.
Mrs. Shipp is prepared to give instruction with
the sale of the model in its adaptability to
practical use. This model is the invention
of a Latter-day Saint sister, and being a home
production should recommend it to use here
in the Territory. It has acquired a reputation
through the practice of years from some of our
sisters who testify to its having been a com-
plete success. There is one a model for dress-mak-
ing and another for tailoring, both eminently
satisfactory to those who have used them.

	A FEW little girls following the example of
the older ones met at the residence of Mrs. B.
W. Smith and formed what is termed the Ju-
venile Association of Little Girls. The presi-
dent is ten years old the secretary nine. They
have had regular meetings for some months in
which they sing, pray and bear their testimony
to the Gospel. They have recently contributed
means, bought calico and pieced a quilt, the
elder sisters quilted it for them, the children
arranging a picnic for the quilters. The little
girls took the quilt to Bishop Edward Hunter
and donated it to the Temple. The good seed
of the Gospel is being sown, and some of it is
bearing rich fruit. It is easy to predict what
will be the future of such children if they con-
tinue to walk in the narrow way. They will
ripen into noble women, women of God.


THE GENERAL Retrenchment meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Satur-
day, May 11th, was one of special interest.
Counselor Zina D. Young presided and spoke
upon baptism for the dead, prayer and the ne-
cessity of building Temples. Mrs. Young re-
quested the presidents of Relief Societies who
were present to make a few remarks. Big Cot-
tonwood, South Cottonwood and Brighton, al-
so First, Second, Fourth, Ninth and Ffteenth
Wards of the city were represented by their
presidents. The Y. L. M. I. A. of the Ninth,
Fourteenth and Seventeenth Wards were rep-
resented by their respective Superintendents.
Many interesting things were said by these la
dies calculated to stimulate and encourage the
sisters in spiritual improvement, and in prac-
cal work. These meetings are a source of 
spiritual growth to our community; and those
who attend them regularly feel an influence
which helps them to live better lives, and to be
more zealous of good works.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		189


[Column 1]
					For the Exponent.
PECUNIARY DEPENDENCE OF WO-
				MEN.

	It is much against Madame Grundy's rule
for a woman to earn money. If a married wo-
man manages in any direct way to earn her
own pocket money, society immediately
frowns her down—what right has a married
woman to earn money? Why don't her hus-
band support her? These and numberless oth-
er questions are asked if any woman dare be
brave enough, or has sufficient independence
to go out of the common groove. Men usual-
ly are very much ashamed of a wife who in-
sists on earning money herself, and it irritates
them beyond expression to feel that a woman
should want any pocket money she will not
ask them for, and give them an account of.
Don't they provide everything that's neces-
sary, and do they ever refuse to hand over to
the wife for extras? But supposing they want
to spend a little means aside from family ex-
penditures, do they ever feel called upon to ac-
count for it? No, why should they, don't they
earn all the money, every cent. I once heard
a mau make the remark when I was a wee bit
of a girl, "my wife never earned a cent in her
life, I've kept my family in style by my own
hard earnings and business tact, ever since we
were married, and we've had ten children to
educate." This was said as a sort of boast that
he was a good husband and father, but, al-
though I was a very little girl then I knew wo-
men had rights as well as men, though that
woman didn't seem to realize it, and I began
from that time to soliloquize on this subject.
I wonder who endured all the sorrows, trials,
aches and pains incident to bearing those ten
children, and in nursing and rearing them;
who but the mother knows the toil, the pa-
tience, the forbearance it requires, leaving out
the hard work, the making and mending and 
cooking. No doubt the very woman to whom
reference had been made, had done all her
household work, save when help was actually
a necessity. When will men feel that their
wives are equal partners in pecuniary matters?
Many women could manage household expen-
ses much more economically were they al-
lowed to make their own purchases; their na-
tures are adapted to these matters and they
know what is most suitable and really make
better bargains than men, besides taking more
pains to get the right thing, instead of just
anything.
	Women have been led into resorting to all
sorts of snbterfuges, and "telling lots of little

[Column 2]
fi[-]s" to get what they want, or money to make
small purchases; to be sure they should not be
tempted to wrong doing even through unjust
or unkind treatment, but such is the bent of 
human nature. Wives feel they have a right
to a certain portion of the means which the
husband earns, if not by right of wifehood, for
cooking his meals, washing his clothes and be-
ing a domestic servant generally, or "maid of
all work," and "by hook or crook" there are
some who will have it however niggardly the
husband may be with them, or however tight
a string he may draw on his purse. Women
have different methods of getting what they
want, some by coaxing and wheedling, some
by tears and entreaties, and others afraid of an
open rupture, or of being denied will accom-
plish their purpose in a way which actually
degrades them in their own eyes, because they
feel it to be morally wrong, but excuse them
selves by thinking there was no other alterna-
tive. No one need think that married women
have time at their disposal, or inclination to go
and earn money if there were no need of it,
and therefore Madame Grundy should be si-
lent on this score at least. The best of hus-
bands is apt to "put on airs" when the wife
wants extra money, but would be astounded
were she to question him as to how, or where
he spends money that he gives no account of
whatever. Many a man worth his thousands
unconsciously perhaps (for charity's sake we
will grant it so), makes his wife undergo a hu-
miliation as grinding as that of the old Quak-
er's wife in the anecdote, when she trembling-
ly asked him for a little change and was re-
torted upon with the question "What hast
thee done with that dime I gave thee last
week?" And many a woman who lives in an
elegant house (her husband's) and rides in a 
handsome carriage (her husband's) cannot
command sufficient money to purchase any
little trifle without making an explanation of
all the why's and wherefore's, and running the
risk of being snubbed into the bargain, or per-
haps flatly refused. All these things are very
mortifying to a sensitive nature, and if the evil
could be remedied, it would save much unhap-
piness, as well as deceit between husband and 
wife, where perfect concord should exist if not
so much for their own comfort, for the sake of
the children who comprehend much more
readily than parents are apt to imagine the lit-
tle causes of unpleasantness and annoyances
between father and mother.

	There are very few married women compar-
atively speaking, who have any time to earn
money however willing they may be, and
however great may be their tact or ingenuity.
Household cares require strict supervision and
young women raising families need all their
physical and mental vigor for maternity and
motherhood, and the husband if thoughtful
and considerate will render material help to 
his posterity by careful attentions and timely
consideration for the wife and mother. Every
woman under these peculiar circumstances
feels much more acutely any neglect, or in-
difference, any unkindness or denial, and the
husband cannot be too careful of the mother
of his offspring. Yet such unfortunately is
not the case; women must learn to look to the
Lord, to lean on the Lord, so we teach and so
we believe, but this does not leave the hns-
band without excuse. If men who are not
willing women should enter a profession, or go
into business, would set the example of liber-
ality towards women in sharing the means
they earn it might have a good effect. Wo-
men who cut, make, mend and do all the work
of a household are scarcely entitled in com-

[Column 3]
mon parlance to more than their board and
clothes, and dare not presume to any extra
privileges, and if their husband takes them
now and then to a theatre, or concert makes
them feel they have had a favor conferred up-
on them, for which they should be most grate-
ful. Many women lie awake at night in fear
and trembling when they are compelled to
ask the husband for money, for even ordinary
comforts; Mrs. Sara J. Andrews Spencer said
at the Woman's Congress in Cleveland last
year, that once in Washington she was listen-
ing to a lecture upon this subject and the 
speaker made the daring assertion that of all
the women there, "not one of them had
twenty-five cents to spend as she pleased with-
out asking somebody for it; "Upon this," said
Mrs. S. "all the old maids and widows clapped
their hands upon their pockets, but the mar-
ried women who were "supported," hung
their heads in silence. They knew it was too
true."
							THYRA.
	S. L. City, May 11, 1878.


WOMEN'S SPHERE.

	As I said Betsey Bobbet is awful opposed
to wimmin's having any right only the 
right to get married. She holds on to that
right as tight as any single woman I ever
see, which makes it hard and wearyin' on
the single men round here. For take the 
men that are the most opposed to wimmin's
havin' a right, and talk the most about its
bein' her duty to cling to man like a vine
to a tree, they don't want Betsey to cling
to them, they won't let her cling to them.
For when they would be goin' on about
how wicked it was for wimmen to vote—
and it was her only spear to marry, says I
to 'em, which had you rather do, let Betsey
Bobbet cling to you or let her vote? and
they would every one of 'em quail before
that question. They would drop their heads
before my keen grey eyes, and move off
the subject.
	But Betsey don't get discourajed. Every
Time I see her, she says in a hopeful wish-
ful tone, "That the deepest men of minds
in the country agree with her in thinking
that it is wimmin's duty to marry and not to
vote. And then she talks a sight about the
retiring modesty and dignity of the fair
sect, and how shameful and revoltin' it
would be to see wimmin throwin' them
away, and boldly and unblushin'ly talkin'
about law and justice. Why to hear Betsey
Bobbet talk about wimmin's throwin' their
modesty away, you would think if ever
they went to the political pole, they would
have to take their dignity and modesty and
throw them against the pole, and go with-
out any, all the rest of their lives.
	Now I don't believe in such stuff as that,
I think a woman can be bold and unwoman-
ly in other things besides going with a 
thick veil over her face, and a brass mount-
ed parasol, once a year, and gently and
quietly dropping a vote for a Christian
president, or a religious or noble minded
pathmaster.—My Opinion's and Betsey
Bobbet's.—English Woman's Review.


It is repo[-]ted that ex-Queen Isabella is
about to make London her residence.

	WHAT letters of the alphabet are most
valuable to a man in business? N. R. G.
(energy).

	AN intelligent German thus expressed
his preference for a quack doctor—"I
vouldn't call him iv mine cat vas dead."


190		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
SKETCH OF MRS. HAYES.

	The Presidential election of November
1876, so bitterly contested, ended in a man-
ner remarkable as unexpected for the wo-
men of the United States; for it gave to the
nation a President's wife. This statement
does not imply that worthy women have
not in recent presidential terms, shared the
honors of the Executive Mansion at Wash-
ington, good wives, and estimable mothers,
but Mrs. Hayes during the year of her oc-
cupancy of the White House has added to
these womanly characteristics, a grace and
power which has made the President's
wife an honored reality before the nation.
	To those who have felt the charm of her
presence to those who know by experience
the genuineness of her professions, and the 
purity of her friendship, it is quite unnec-
essary to inquire concerning the early in-
fluences which developed this rich fruitage
of womanly character. To the greater
throng, however, who study her solely from
afar, there can be no such hesitancy, and for
them this brief sketch of her life, may be
both instructive and helpful.
	Lucy Ware Webb was born of honored
ancestry and her life from early childhood
was spent in the state of Ohio.
	Her father, a physician, died while she
was still an infant, but a mother, such as is
vouchsafed to but few daughters, was long
spared to bless the infant child.
	This widowed mother had two other
children, sons, and for their sakes, she
early removed to Delaware, Ohio, where
was located the Ohio Wesleyan University.
In this institution the boys were entered
for a full university course. Mrs. Webb
was independent as to fortune, and relig-
iously devoted her time and attention to
the care of her three children. Lucy was,
at the period of the removal to Delaware,
ten years of age. Her early education was
ordered with care by this wise mother,
she herself selecting her private instructors,
and at length, obtaining for her the privi-
lege of recitation from the professors.
	It was one of these identical college pro-
fessors, who so long ago inaugurated with a
hearty good-will the co-education of Lucy
Webb with her brothers, who on the night
of December 30th, 1877, ratified with sol-
emn religious service, the renewed vows
entered upon by the President and Mrs.
Hayes on the silver anniversary of their
wedding. Twenty-five years before in hap-
py remembrance of this university episode
in the bride's early girlhood, the professor
had been called to perform the ceremony,
and now again in Washington he was re-
called to assist in the thanksgiving of her-
self and husband over an accomplished
quarter of a century of wedded life. When
the daughter was about fifteen years of age
the sons having graduated at Delaware, and
both being about to enter upon the study
of medicine in Cincinnati, the devoted
mother removed thither also, having the
additional reason for her change of resi-
dence in the desire to place Lucy in the
Wesleyan Female College located in that
city. She was promptly entered there, and
without hindrance or interruption, but
blessed and helped beyond computation by
her mother's guardianship, she spent three
consecutive years in the prosecution of her
studies, and graduated with honor in June,
1850.
	It is a fact fraught with significance that
at this time when the question of the high-
er education of women occupies the atten-
tion of the wisest educators and legislators
in the land—the nation may be said to be

[Column 2]
engaged in honoring a woman who is a 
graduate of the first chartered college for
the education of woman in the United
States.
	This title of college was conferred upon
this institution in the charter granted by
the Legislature of Ohio, February 24, 1846.
The curriculum of study was extended,
and the several college classes were care-
fully graded. Mathematics and the class-
ics were rigidly and faithfully taught, and
the graduates of the institution in the ear-
lier years of its history will to day stand
well the test if compared as to their colle-
giate training with the graduates of the
older colleges for young men.
	To Lucy Webb and her associates those
years of college life, were not careless,
songful years, but-toilful, satisfying ones
nevertheless. The secret of the existence
of this college for women so far in advance,
as to years, of the times, is to be found in
the consecration of another life, whose im-
press Mrs. Hayes' character bears in a strik-
ing manner. The life referred to was that
of President Wilber—Rev. P. B. Wilber,
D. D.—who for thirteen years (or from the
inception of the Wesleyan College, until
one June day in 1859, when he fell insensi-
ble at his post), was its energetic and de-
voted president.
	President Wilber, whose memory Mrs.
Hayes in common with the 243 Alumnae
who had graduated before his death, de-
lights to honor, was a remarkable man. As
an educator and inspirer of young women,
those qualified to judge, esteemed him
without a peer. In the professor's chair,
giving didactic instruction he took high
rank, but from the president's desk in the
college chapel he exerted his lasting influ-
ence. There he eliminated from woman's 
life all that was frivolous, all that was un-
worthy, and there morning after morning,
year by year he exalted the holiest and pur-
est ideals until life grew so solemn that
young hearts drew back and feared to live,
if living was so fraught with responsibility
and accountability.
	Measured in this crucial test of daily in-
trospection, Lucy Webb was not found
wanting. From childhood a christian she
drew her help from the Divine fountain of
wisdom, and went forth from college halls
to assume the duties of womanhood, well
disciplined, and, as the sequel has proven,
thoroughly equipped for the work which
has fallen to her lot.
	While she was yet a member of President
Wilber's family, a rising young lawyer,
used "to open the big iron gate of the Wes-
leyan Female College on Vine Street, pretty
regularly every Friday evening" (reception
evening for the college girls) that he might
greet the bashful undergraduate who was
destined to be his wife.
	Two years later, or in 1852, R. B. Hayes
and Lucy W. Webb were married in Cin-
cinnati. Into the privacy of a home such as
theirs the world may not enter. Suffice it,
that it was a household of rare happiness.
The good mother rested from her cares in
the daughter's home, and enjoyed its peace
for a number of years, until from its bosom
she was "called to go up higher."
	Seven children were born, five of whom
still live. Intertwined among these years
came the war of the rebellion, calling Gen-
eral Hayes to the field of battle, where his
wife courageously and devotedly attended
him.
	The limits of an article such as this can-
not embrace details where each incident
seems replete with interest. Mrs. Hayes'
present record is before the whole people.

[Column 3]
They have read attentively, and that they
approve, is shown by the hearty commend-
ation bestowed on every hand.
	Scarcely less than her husband is she at
present a power in our national life, with
this difference, however, that Mrs. Hayes'
constituency recognizes no party lines. The
womanly womanliness which in home life
apportions "letters to the older boys, and
dolls and pettings to the little ones"—in
public life a cordial greeting to all who seek
her presence, reserving her brightest
smiles for those who in circumstances of
trial or temptation struggle towards the 
right, which in social life sets an example
touching the great moral and religious
questions of the day, which the feeblest as
well as the strongest among lookers on may
follow,—this womanliness thus displayed
commands the respect of people of every
section, name and party.
			—Prof. RACHEL L. BODLEY.
	"Woman's Words."


﻿UTAH COUNTY SILK MEETING.

	AMERICAN FORK MEETING HOUSE,
						April 2nd, 1878.

	Meeting opened in usual order; minutes
read, etc. A report of a meeting of the
Executive Board was read which presented
several questions for consideration; first, the
necessity of petitioning the County Court
for an appropriation for the furtherance of
the silk business. Elder Graves spoke on
the subject and motioned that we apply for
fifty dollars, seconded by Mrs. Hindley;
Bishop L. E. Harrington also made some
appropriate remarks on the subject, approv-
ing of the motion. Elder H. Cluff followed
with some interesting remarks encouraging
to silk-raisers, felt assured that the County
Court would do all in their power for the
furtherance of the enterprise, but was also
in favor that if the Court refused to aid us,
that we raise fifty or one hundred dollars
by subscription offering to donate ten dol-
lars himself. Made an amendment that we
apply for one hundred instead of fifty dol-
lars, which was seconded by Bishop Har-
rington, and carried unanimously. The
next question before the meeting was
whether the sisters of the Relief and
Young Ladies Societies are members of the
Silk Association, by virtue of their mem-
bership in these Associations, or must they
be enrolled. Elder Graves considered they
are already members through the call of
President Brigham Young. Motioned by
Bishop Harrington that the Ladies of the
Relief and Y. L. I. Associations are all
members of the Silk Association; carried.
Some other items of business were trans-
acted; after which Mrs. Zina D. Young ad-
dressed the meeting; spoke very interest-
ingly on the raising and manufacturing of
the silk. Referred to the mission given to
the sisters by President Brigham Young.
Spoke of the duties of mothers to their
children, and the necessity of furnishing
employment and clothing to them and also
to ourselves. Told the sisters not to get
discouraged by failures, but to "try again;"
related some of her experience in the silk
business and encouraged the sisters to keep
on persevering until they make it a suc-
cess. Spoke of Celestial Marriage as a di-
vine principle, and calculated to purify and
elevate the saints of God, said many things
that were cheering and profitable and full of
the spirit of the Gospel. Urged the sisters
to plant cuttings and put in seed of the
mulberry, and persevere in the work ob-
taining a little knowledge here and a little


there. We have no time to spare in none
sense or frivolity, but let us be of one heart
and one mind, and seek to do all the good
we can while we live upon the earth, that
when our time comes to go, we shall have
nothing to fear, but all will be peace. Let
us seek each other's interest and welfare by
wearing the clothes made by our own
hands, thus showing our faith by our works.
We know that we are in advance of the
women of the world, and they know that
we are superior to them in many respects.
	Let us speak well of each other, and pray
for each other, and bear each other's bur-
dens. We take with us throughout eter-
nity the improvement we make in our
minds. There is nothing that gives us the
same satisfaction as heavenly things; we
have no sorrow only for sin, and there is in
the gospel a healing balm for every wound.
	The reports of the sisters from the var-
ious settlements were interesting and satis-
factory, all manifesting their willingness
and anxiety to do all in their power for the
furtherance of silk culture, also bore faith-
ful testimonies to the principles of life and 
salvation. Altogether the meeting was
both pleasing and profitable. The spirit of
the Lord prevailed and all felt benefitted
and blest in coming together.
	Mrs. Young announced that Miss M. A.
Rockwood would take pupils to learn reel-
ing and twisting of silk, for $5,00 each.
	On motion of Mrs. Hindley the meeting
adjourned until July next.
		MRS. MARY HINDLEY, Pres't.
		MRS. EMMA FEATHERSTONE, Sec'y.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		191


[Column 1]
						For the EXPONENT.
				THOREAU.*

	Thoreau's life was in many respects a
strange one. If his life were a strange
one, was it an exception to what life
in general is? It was and it was not. In
this strange and mysterious consciousness
called life, the potent and all pervading fact
of it is that it is. Thoreau's life was an ex-
ception to the common experience in so
much that he steered its course out of the
ordinary; and he betook himself to the
woods and their lakes "not that he loved
man less, but that he loved nature more."
He absented himself from man and his oc-
cupations that he might know him better,
and not because he loved not man and his
ways.
	In the universe man stands alone; he
may find in others a sympathy of ideas and
feelings, and yet he must gaze upon his fel-
low man as a part of an incomprehensible uni
verse; the universe of himself and his mind;
the thought suggests itself to him, am I a
part of the universe, or is the universe a
part of me? A question unknown and un-
knowable. This is what Thoreau must have
thought and felt when he retired to Wal-
den.
	He went here; as he himself says, to live
one of his lives, and that he might the
better meet and master the new lives to
come. He did not despise the revolutioniz-
ing improvements and advancements of
nineteenth century progress. The whistle
of the locomotive was to him not the death-
cry of beauty and of nature in its primi-
tiveness before man began his despoilation
of all for gain, but was rather the merry
laugh of a conscious being bringing comfort
to those who needed, loving friends and
faithful hands to those who mourned. In
this he is the opposite of Ruskin with his
Scotch lakes and Highland dells. Ruskin
sees in the advance of civilization an uni-
versal onslaught upon the beauty and har-

[Column 2]
mony of nature; not so Thoreau. Thor-
eau sees man expanding his nature, and de-
veloping an unknown and illimitable power
that is within him.
	Although he lived alone he was no her-
mit. Is he a hermit who communes with
the stars; sings with the birds; talks with
the beasts of the field, the fowls of the air,
and the fishes of the sea? No; to him all
nature and nature's is a companion, a loving
voice, a sympathizing soul. "Consider the
lilies of the field, they toil not, neither do
they spin, and yet I say unto you that even
Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed
like one of these." None ever more fully
realized the truth and beauty of this pas-
sage than Thoreau. He had at Walden
what he would have found in human soci-
ety,—companions as God made them and
not as society fashioned them. Here at
Walden his life was simple and philosophic
in the extreme; his bean field supplied
the place of the cabbage patch of
Cincinnatus. Indeed we deem this
portion of his life most poetical and 
was not that of a melancholic and misan-
thrope. Well has he earned the appellation
of "poet-naturalist." He was a poet after
the model of Sidney and Mill. All that
we can say of his life during these years of
solitude is that it was such as might have
been the envy of the angels.
	His ideas of government were preemi-
nently republican; and yet he greatly de-
precated the evils of republican institutions.
His ideal of a society would have been to
have had a primitive equality, a society
like that of the Village of Grand Pre,
where "the richest were poor, and the poor-
est lived in abundance." Certainly this is
an ideal that is most desirable, but too Uto-
pian for actual realization. Man wants no
equality unless it betters his condition.
They will cry equality who have nothing to
lose, everything to gain. Observation
teaches us that there is only one society
and one country where is absolute equality
—that society is the dead, that country the
grave.
	Mr. Pago has done a service to the mem-
ory of Thoreau, though his book is not all
we could have wished. We think he has
refuted, and fully, the assertion of Mr. Al-
ger, that Thorean was an egotist and self-
praiser. Thoreau only found within him-
self a centre from which all his ideas radi-
ated, and which returned again to that cen-
tre. Man's knowledge of mankind will al-
ways be and only be commensurate with
the knowledge of his personal self.
	Thoreau sleeps in his own beloved Con-
cord, where he was laid by distinguished
and loving friends. May we some day vis-
it this birth-place and home of so much
American genius.
	We hope some day that we shall be fav-
ored with a life and the letters of Thoreau.
							A. L. F.
	*	Thoreau: His Life and Aims, a study,
by H. A. Page.


[Column 1]
RELIEF SOCIETY QUARTERLY CON-
			FERENCE.

	We had the pleasure of attending the Con-
ference held by the sisters of Weber County,
in Ogden at the Tabernacle, on Thursday, May
2nd, commencing at 10 o'clock, a. m., and 2
o'clock; p. m. The congregation was very
large, the weather was fine, and all things
combined to render the meetings very satisfac-
tory. President Peery and others of the local
authorities of that Stake of Zion were present,
also Elder Erastus Snow of the Quorum of the
Apostles. The complete organization of the

[Column 2]
Relief Society of that county was effected by
electing Mrs. Sarah Herricks an[-] Mrs. Hattie
Brown Counselors to Mrs. Jane S. Richards,
Mrs. A. M. Frodsham, Secretary, and Mrs.
Josephine West Corresponding Secretary.
Quarterly reports from all the branches of the
Relief Society in Weber County were read,
which showed that since the last Quarterly
Conference, there had been disbursed to the
poor $170.13, donated to the Temple, $119.99,
total amount in sundries $290 12, total amount
on hand in property, $1,247.26. The meeting
was conducted by President Jane S. Richards.
After the reports were read and the conference
business transacted, Elder Erastus Snow ad-
dressed the sisters upon the important duties
and responsibilities resting upon the women of
Israel. Exhorted them to be mindful of the
poor, the sick and the aged, to minister to
them in a loving and tender manner; to search
out the poor in their respective districts and be
careful that none were left to suffer. His in-
structions were excellent and he blessed the
sisters for their praiseworthy efforts in assist-
ing to build up Zion. In the afternoon Mrs.
Zina D. Young was the first speaker. Mrs.
Young spoke of seri-culture, of what had been
done, and future prospects; entreated the sis-
ters to use their utmost influence to make a
permanent start of the silk raising. She spoke
impressively upon the subject of women
physicians, the great need of having women
in the various settlements thoroughly quali-
fied to attend to the sick, especially women and
children. Said we have now in Salt Lake City,
ladies who have graduated and are prepared to
teach others, they are women of God, and it is
such women who should minister among the
sick. She said many other excellent things.
Miss Snow spoke eloquently upon the mission
of women in the Latter days and of the power
given to the saints and the advantages they
engoyed beyond the women of the world;
spoke of the neglect there had been in times
past in the spiritual cultivation of the young;
of the first organizations of the girls, and the
opposition they had to meet, of the great ben-
efits which had resulted already from these as-
sociations, of the influence for good the young
girls could exercise in the community. Ex-
horted the sisters to renewed diligence and
faithfulness, spoke upon Celestial Marriage,
the glorious anticipations of those who em-
braced and lived in it in purity and honored it;
of home industries; sericulture, straw-work and
other branches, of the storing of wheat by the
sisters, and the many subjects of the present
day which make up the sum of woman's work
of benevolence, improvement etc., in the
kingdom of God. President Peery expressed
his approbation with the movements of the sis-
ters and encouraged them to go on in well do-
ing. President Jane S. Richards made a few
appropriate remarks. Each society was then
called by Pres't P[-]ery's suggestion to be repre-
sented through its president or some other
officer. Mrs. Adeline Belknap, Hooper; Mrs.
Melissa Shirtliff, Harrisville; Mrs. Mary Farr,
Monnd's Fort; Mrs. C. M. Lund, Huntsville;
Mrs. Martha Bingham, Riverdale; Mrs. Mary
Fields; Slaterville; Mrs. Ann Bickington,
Lynne and Marriot; Mrs. Emily Shirtliff, Plain
City; each spoke a few words, bearing faithful
testimony to the Gospel. Mrs. Emily S. Rich-
ards, President of the Y. L. M. I. A. of Ogden
City, made a few most excellent remarks ex-
pressing her great desire to be useful, and her
interest in the spiritual progress of the young;
she also spoke of the home industries and her
willingness to assist in their establishment.
	The conference was adjourned for three
months, until the first Thursday in August.
These Conferences of the Sisters are calculat-


ed to do a vast amount of good and awake a
more general interest in home-industries, as
well as in all benevolent works among the wo-
men of the Latter-day Saints.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


THE TEMPERANCE Reform and The Great
Reformers," is the title of a work on the sub-
ject of Temperance by Rev. W. H. Daniels M.
A., with an introduction by Rev. Theo. L.
Cuyler, D. D. The book is divided into nine
sections and gives an outline of all the great
temperance movements in America, with
sketches of the different societies organized to 
assist in the work and pictures of celebrated
workers, men and women. It is printed upon
fine tinted paper in clear readable type and
contains 600 pages. The book is sold by sub-
scrip[-]io[-] only; price $2,00 Mrs. Hewlings,
(widow of Rev. G. R. Hewlings lately deceas-
ed,) is agent in this Territory, and is now can-
vassing through this city. We recommend
her to the courtesy of our sisters, and wish her
success in her noble efforts for good. Her no-
ble heart is in the cause of Temperance and
Reform. She has lectured on that and other
subjects in some of the Eastern and Western
States, and has been an efficient practical
worker in the cause. Mrs. Hewlings has visit-
ed Inebriate Homes, Asylums and Prisons in
the interest of the Temperance Cause. This
lady is about to visit the southern settlements
of this Territory and intends canvassing in the
villages and towns upon the way. God speed
the cause of Temperance in this and other
lands and, and bless those who devote their
energies to so laudable a work.


[Column 1]
MRS. ELLIS R. SHIPP,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
Office, Main Street, south of Z. C. M. I. next
door to Williams & Young.
	Resi[-]ence, 11th ward, 7th East Street, between 1st
and 2d South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics, diseases of
women and minor surgery.

DR. ELLEN B. FERGUSON,
Physician and Surgeon,
Office and residence, First East Street, between First and 
second South Streets.
	Special attention given to Obstetrics and diseases of 
Children, also diseases of the throat and Lungs.

MRS. M. L. MORRIS
Wishes to announce to her former patrons and others
that she
CLEANS, REMODELS AND DYES
STRAW AND TUSCAN HATS.
LEGHORN made a specialty. Ladies' own material
made up.
Residence—One block west and half a block
south of Court House.

SILKWORM EGGS FOR SALE
at the residence of
MRS. ZINA D. YOUNG,
State Road, 13th Ward.
Price $4.00 Per Ounce.

Home Industrial Straw Manufactory.
Mrs. A. RUMEL,
Wishing to accommodate her patrons, the Ladies of Salt
Lake City and Vicinity, has Removed her Show and
Saleroom to
No. 49 MAIN STREET,
Two doors south of Jennings Corner, and respectfully
invites the friends of Home Industry, and the Public gen-
erally, to call and examine her stock of Hats made from
the late[-]t Parisian style and shape. Ladies will also find
a variety of Imported Hats and Bonnets, with every-
thing pertaining to a first-class Millinery Establishment,
at moderate prices.
and Panama, Leghorn and Straw Hats, Cleaned, Dyed
Altered.

[Column 2]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
					JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.	97 Kimball Block.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.
[Drawing of a machine]
	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
					GEO. A. LUKE & CO.,
						Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[--] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc., Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING,
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descr[-]ptions.
		MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.

NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH 
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
AT 
TEASDEL'S.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY,
FOR ALL KINDS OF
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the 13th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE AND ADDRESS—Main Street, over Dr.
Richards' Drug Store, nearly opposite Z.C.M.I.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Ja[-]es,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are p[-]t at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and 
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
		Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE,
			                       		Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
CALDER & CARELESS.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in 
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO ALL!

P. SHWARTZ
Has removed, with his entire New Stock of
FANCY & STAPLE DRY GOODS,
Opposite the Salt Lake House, and will 
sell as Cheap or Cheaper than ever.
REMEMBER ALL.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake

