VOL. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, DECEMBER 1, 1877.	No. 13.


"THE REIGN OF THE CONSTITUTION AND LAWS HAS
	BEEN RESTORED" (IN UTAH.)
—JAMES BUCHANAN'S MESSAGE TO CONGRESS.
	RESPONSE.

Tell Congress, sir, that yonder sun
	Will nature’s laws obey,
And has, accordingly, begun
	To shed the solar ray.
Announce to Congress that the moon
	Will yield obedience
To Nature, and will, therefore, soon
	Her honored light dispense.
Say too, the twinkling orbs of night
	Will now in order move—
Thenceforth they’ll decorate with light
	The galaxy above
Tell Congress that the Seasons n[-]w,
	In strictest loyalty
To Nature's Constitution, bow
	With all fidelity. 
Let Congress know the orbs above
	Have all agreed to shine—
The seasons, in their course to move,
	Have formed a late design. 
Or else announce one fact instead,
	Which long will be deplored,
That wisdom to our Nation's head
	Has not its "reign restored."
QUERY: Where have the Constitution and laws reigned
during the last two years but in Utah?	E. R. Snow
G. S. L. City, Aug. 4, 1858,


[Column 1]

	[For the EXPONENT.
	AFTER LONG YEARS.

	LETTER III.

	Tread softly through the halls of olden time,
	List to the music of the echoes there—
	Reverberating solemn and sublime,
	Mellow'd in cadence yet in sweetness rare.
	
	Beautiful thoughts are oft awakened by
some rude scene of Nature's decay, or per-
chance some old sentiment is revived by
listening to "a song of other days." It
strikes a sympathetic chord in the soul, and
anon the harp once properly attuned to the
harmonies of life, but which has long been
hung upon the willows, is inadvertently
tonched and for a moment sends forth its
notes again in a minor key, corresponding
to the inner music of the soul. It brings
back the pleasure of the time when all un-
conscious of the future we reveled in the
very luxury of innocence and mirth. When
our eyes opened to all that was lovable
around us, and our hearts were impulsively
susceptible to tender emotions, when we
drank first at the fountain of love and be-
lieved in its ideal visions. Years tone
down much of the enthusiasm of the young;
a calmer and more pathetic feeling takes
the place of the exuberance of spirits, but
yet there is a subdued and cultivated senti-
ment that is still in keeping with the true
elements of life.
	We should have charity for one another.
It is well to judge carefully, for how can
one tell what another may have had to en-
dure? We make but sorry judges in our
own weakness; life is so unlike in its
phases, and all have their own peculiar ex-
periences, which act upon them according
to their circumstances and surroundings;
and the condition of the person mentally,

[Column 2]
physically, and perhaps spiritually. In
looking around,or in considering our friends,
we find much thought for reflection, aside
from differences in character and tempera-
ment, there are incidents in certain lives
which render persons perhaps gloomy, mo-
rose, irritable and disagreeable. In many
instances all these are, or may be the re-
sult of sad experiences and bitter disap-
pointments.
	There is scarcely a human heart so hard
that it cannot be softened by some remem-
brance of the past. Those, who after years
wasted in dissipation and folly, care noth-
ing for the future, have no hopes, no trust,
no faith, are seldom oblivious of the past;
recall to them some reminiscence of their
childhood, or mother, or home, and see if
deep down in the recesses of their soul
there is not a treasured memory that wells
up and finds vent, if not in words, in tears,
or in a stifled sob. Many are the precious
golden links that bind our hearts to the
friends and scenes of other days; simple
things in themselves, yet magnetic in
charm, and powerful in their hold upon
memory. A lock of hair carefully laid
away, a letter faded and worn, these and a 
thousand other tender mementoes are oft
times the choicest treasures of men and
women of the highest type of character,
men and women who possess affection of
the loftiest tone and sublimity.
	AUNT EM.


CO-EDUCATION IN NEW ZEALAND.

	At the presentation of the B. A. degree
to Miss Edgar, at Auckland, on the 12th of
August, the Bishop of Auckland said:—

	I salute the oldest, and at the same time
the youngest Bachelor of Arts who is a lady,
in New Zealand or the British Empire. I
may say that I myself submitted no higher
intellectual test for other degrees than that
which has admitted to that degree. As to
the value of the degree now conferred on
Miss Edgar, I can testify that the chairman
has said nothing more than is literally true
when he said it was quite as good, and
in some respects more valuable, than an or-
dinary B. A. degree conferred by Cam-
bridge; certainly in my time. There are
many matters in connection with this sub-
ject, on which this community might be
congratulated. The admission of a lady to
this degree is the triumph of a great princi-
ple. Ladies have sought to be admitted
to degrees at Edinburgh, if not at other uni-
versities, and have been refused.
	The Rev. B. Bruce, as a member of the
Senate of New Zealand University, said:
As to the value of the degree itself, I may
tell you that what has already been said of
this degree does not distinctly point out the
very high character of it as an academical
standard. It is customary to estimate the
value of these things by comparison. Now,
the standard of examination in some Scotch
Universities is even higher than that of
Cambridge. The standard of the Univer-
sity of Victoria, was, until lately, the high-
est, but the standard of the University of
New Zealand is even higher than that of
Victoria. It is now the highest in the


world for admission to a B. A. degree; such
a degree as Miss Edgar has obtained.
 Miss Edgar has already received an ap-
pointment in the Canterbury Ladies' Col-
lege, with an emolument of [pound sign]300 a year.--
"The New Zealand Queenslander."


MISCELLANEOUS.

   THERE are circumstances in life when
speed is folly, and to be slow is to be almost
insured to safety.  Take friendship as an
example. How many of us are apt to run
headlong into those pleasant bonds of affec-
tion for well-seeming and charming people,
of whom in reality we know nothing, only
to find that seeming and being are by no
means interchangeable terms, and that what
we took to be harmony with ourselves turns
out to be discord instead!
"MAN of leisure" is the polite term for a
genteel drone.  We call his ragged, penni-
less fellow-sluggard with unkempt hair and
unwashed face a "loafer;" but as the former
manifests some respect for the decencies of
life, and has the wherewithal to pay his
way instead of begging it, we dignify him
with the title of "man of leisure."  Mor-
ally, however, the twain are fellow-tribes-
men.  There is no essential difference be-
tween them, the only disparity being in
their pecuniary circumstances and methods
of wasting time.  Both are lazy; neither
fulfills the purpose for which he was created.

PARENT AND CHILD.--Charity is not the
only quality which begins at home.  It is
throwing away money to spend a thousand
a year on the teaching of three boys, if
they are to return from school only to find
the older members of their family intent on
amusing themselves at any cost of time and
trouble, or sacrificing self-respect in ignoble
efforts to struggle into a social grade above
their own.  The child will never place his
aims high and pursue them steadily unless
the parent has taught him what energy and
elevation of purpose mean, not less by ex-
ample than by precept.


FLORAL HINTS.

	PRESERVING FLOWERS, ETC.——Many
flowers and leaves may be beautifully pre-
served by covering them in every part with
melted sperm. The best way is to cut a
candle into pieces and melt it in an old sau-
cer on the back of the range—it must not
be hot enough to smoke. First dip in the
stems, the sperm will harden almost at
once. so that the stem may be held while
immersing the flower or blade of the leaf.
Dip but once and that quickly. The pro-
cess is too severe for delicate petals, melt-
ing them as it were together, of others
heat will change the colors. Variegated
leaves, such as those of the Pelargoniums,
Maples, Ivies and fancy-leaved Caladiums
will perhaps give the best satisfaction.
When arranged into bouquets or wreaths
they are less liable to curl if protected by
a glass globe, like those used for wax flow-
ers; still, if not so protected, with a little
care in a coolish atmosphere they will re-
tain their form and colors for months.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


R. S. REPORTS.

SPANISH FORK, Oct. 27, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
I send you a few lines to let your readers
know that the Relief Society here are anx-
ious to do their part in all the various duties
and requirements of the times; especially
in regard to Storing Grain for Zion, a re-
port of which will be sent as directed in
your issue of the 15th.  Silk raising has not 
been lost sight of, although but little has been
done the past season, we hope for better
things in the future, for this truly useful
branch of industry, as our President and 
many others are awake to its importance.
At the annual meeting of the Society held
the second day of July last, an increase of
members, and a good financial condition
was reported.
	Our first meeting after the death of our
beloved President Brigham Young was a 
very solemn one; all present feeling the 
loss of him who had, under God led Israel
so long and so faithfully.  Many of the sis-
ters spoke with much feeling, and express-
ed a determination to carry out in the fu-
ture more fully the counsels he had given
us; also recognizing this to be the kingdom
of God, and upholding  and sustaining who-
ever may be appointed to guide and direct
its affairs on the earth.  The Epistle of the
Twelve to the saints was read and all felt
comforted.
	Among other plans for saving grain, it
was proposed that all the sisters that could,
should go to the fields and glean, which was
heart[-]lly responded to. The result was
twenty-five bushels more of wheat to add
to Zion's granary.  The young ladies of the
Mutual Improvement Society, who are also
members of the Relief Society, had a glean-
ing "bee" and also gathered nearly twenty-
five bushels of wheat and finished the day
with a ball in the City Hall which was
quite an enjoyable affair.  Two of our mem-
bers have been called away by death during
the past year; at the request of their friends
I send their obituary notices.
	The spirit of union is increasing among
us. With love to all who love our Lord and
Savior Jesus Christ in sincerity and truth,
we remain your sisters in the Gospel.
				MARY FERGUSON, Pres't
		HANNAH CORNABY, Cor. Sec'y.

	SALT LAKE CITY, Oct. 31st, 1877.
	Minutes of a Special Meeting of the
Young Ladies' Retrenchment Association,
held in the Eighth Ward Assembly Rooms,
Oct. 31st, 1877.
	Usual opening exercises; minutes read
and accepted.  By invitation of Counselor
Sarah Jane Chamberlain, Mrs. Elizabeth
Howard made some very good remarks, of
which the following is a synopsis:  "I am
well satisfied with your minutes, and am
glad to see so many young ladies present.
I advise the young to read church works.
You will yet see the day when you will be
thankful for these meetings.  We should
try to help in all home industries; we, as 
Latter-day Saints, should study economy;
we should not spend so much time and 
money on the foolish fashions, but save our
means to help build up the kingdom of
God."
	Mrs. M. I. Horne: " I am pleased to meet
with  you, and feel to thank my Heavenly
Father for his protecting care over us. I
advise you to watch and pray, and associate
with those who act from good principles;
there is a warfare before us, and we can
choose good or evil; if we are humble and
prayerful we will be able to conquer all
things.  Every one who is before me ought
to have a testimony of this work.  We are
not like the world, for with our husbands
we hold a portion of the priesthood; if we 
do not qualify ourselves, we cannot enter
the presence of our Father; it would not 
be appropriate or consistent if our husbands
were intelligent and we were the reverse.
The Lord gives us nothing to waste, and if 
we are wise we will dress neat and plain."
Mrs. Horne also spoke of the fault finding
spirit there is with those who do not try to 
live their religion.
	Mrs. E. S. Barney: " I feel at home in 
this meeting.  At the late Conference,
President Taylor said that every woman
should have a membership in the Relief
Society and in these Mutual Improvement
Associations.  Singing is a part of our re-
ligion, and I have been very much edified
with the singing this afternoon."  She 
spoke of obedience to parents, and the
principle of plural marriage, and made
other very interesting remarks.
	 Mrs. Zina Y. Williams: "I did not expect
to be called upon to-day.  Plural marriage
and the United Order should be taught at 
home by the  many trails attending it, but we
gain many blessings through it."  Spoke of 
the word of wisdom and plain living; we 
will live longer and be brighter stars in
Zion if we study the laws of nature.
	Bishop E. F. Sheets: "I feel to endorse
all that has been advanced by my sisters
this afternoon, and hope that each one will
bear it in mind and improve thereby."  It 
was moved and seconded to change the
name of our Society from Retrenchment to
Mutual Improvement Association.  Sisters
E. G. Barney and E. Snell were chosen as
Counselors. President Mary Leaver said 
she approved of what had been said.  She 
then invited the guests, the members of
the Association and the officers of the Re-
lief Society to partake of a supper at the 
Bishop's house after meeting.  Adjourned
for two weeks.  Benediction by Elder
Isaac Brockbank.
			MRS. M. S. LEAVER, President
			MISS S. A. HAWKINS, Secretary.


[Column 1]
SANTAQUIN, Nov. 4, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our Ninth Annual Meeting on 
Sept. 6th, 1877. Our reports were all read,
showing that we had received during the
year, $222, 73; disbursed during the year
to charitable and other needful purposes,
$120,29, leaving a balance of $102, 44. The
Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Asso-
ciation held their 4th Annual Meeting at
the same time. Their reports were very
favorable. Our meeting was addressed by
Bishop George Halladay, and President E.
J. Stickney on matters pertaining to our
temporal as well as spiritual welfare. All
present seemed united and a good spirit
prevailed.
	Death has taken away one of our sisters,
Sarah Maria Wall. She died Oct. 27, 1877,
with the heart disease, aged 51 years and 8
months. She was a member of the choir,
a teacher in the Sunday School and a teach-
er in the Relief Society. All of these offices
she ever faithfully filled. She bore the tri-
als of life as a true woman and mother in
Israel should, being loving and kind to all
with whom she associated. She has left a
husband, five children, and a large circle of
friends to mourn her loss. She died as she
had lived a true Latter-day Saint.

[Column 2]
	The majority of the sisters are interested
in Storing Grain, according to the counsel
given by our beloved President Brigham
Young. We are striving in our weak way,
to obey the counsel of those placed over us,
and try to do all the good we can in helping
to build temples, taking care of the poor,
etc. We deeply mourn the loss of our be-
loved Prophet Brigham Young, and truly
sympathize with his family in their bereave-
ment.
	With the best of wishes for yourself and
our valuable paper, we remain your sisters
etc.	E. J. STICKNEY, President,
	ELIZABETH CARTER, Secretary.

SALT LAKE CITY, THIRD WARD,
	NOV. 12, 1877.

EDITOR EXPONENT.
	Always feelings anxious to mingle our
voices with our sisters of the Relief Socie-
ties, we send a brief sketch of our efforts
in the Third Ward. We are holding meet-
ings regularly three times a month, and
those that attend are united, we have teach-
ers appointed to visit and report once a
month, should there be any one in need
their wants may be administered to: a very
interesting meeting was held Oct. 10, Mrs.
Zina D. Young and Mrs. Prescinda Kimball
were present. There was a much larger at-
tendance than usual. These sisters gave us
some good instructions which we truly ap-
preciated, and it will long be remembered;
we are also trying to respond to the coun-
sels of our late beloved and esteemed Pres-
ident Brigham Young in storing up wheat.
Bishop Weiler kindly offered us a bin to
put it in and donated five bushels of wheat,
and several dollars in cash; several of the
sisters douate monthly for this purpose.
The EXPONENT is always welcome and read
with a great deal of interest.
	Ever with you in good works.
	MRS. ELIZABETH WEILER, Pres't.
	MRS. ZURVIAH G. EARDLEY, Scc'y.

	BEAVER CITY, Nov. 12, 1877.

EDITOR EXPONENT:

	The following is the Annual Report of
our Society, for the year beginning June,
1876, ending 1877:

	Receipts $ 277 10
	Disbursed to the poor 42 75
	Misionaries 99 65
	St. George Temple 81 00
	Repairs on Meeting House 43 70
	Total, 267 10
	Remaining in treasury 10 00
	In teasury, at present date, 110 35

	The society is in a thriving condition;
peace and union prevails, the meetings are
well attended, and all seem anxious to carry
out the wishes of our late President, par-
ticularly in regard to storing grain.
	Wishing success to your valuable paper,
and all the interests of Zion, we remain
your co-workers in the great Latter-day
work.
	Officers: Ruth W. Tyler, President; Eliza
W. Hawkins, and Ann Lewis, Counselors.
	MARY E. ASHWORTH, Sec'y.


AT THE recent Woman's Congress at
Cleveland, Mrs. Frances W. Harper, a col-
ored woman, read a paper "On the colored
women of America."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		99


[Column 1]
						[For the EXPONENT.
	THE MOTHER'S DOMINION.

	"A nurse," to take care of my Treasures!
		No! cousin, I could not agree
	To grant to another the pleasures
		Which God has intended for me.
	"A girl just to take them out walking?"
		Why, I need, myself, the fresh air;
	And while we're thus socially talking,
		It's no task to watch them with care.

	My "talents need more cultivation:"
		Well, yes—but I sometimes reflect;
	And think that my home-education
		Has no cause to complain of neglect.
	I read and seek daily for knowledge,
		And hope, as a mother and wife,
	To prepare my own offspring for college,
		Or to fill worthy stations in life.

	True, I cannot study forever,
		Like the school girl who has but her book,
	But I'm striving as well, to be clever,
		As housekeeper, seamstress and cook.
	Yet all else I would freely surrender,
		Rooms, toilet, pantry and purse.
	Ere my darlings, so precious and tender,
		I'd leave to the care of a nurse.

	"With another I'll change"—Pretty cousin,
		You mistake, and perhaps you may blame:
	But should I have ten or a dozen,
		I hope you'll still find me the same;
	Except I become still more careful,
		More diligent, patient and just;
	More willing to serve and more prayerful,
		For th' souls which God gives me in trust.

	Oft times it is all that a mother
		Can do, to be wise with her own;
	Should she trust her pure gems with another,
		Whose feelings and traits are unknown?
	'Twere e'en better that calls be rejected,
		Though friendship be weakened or spoiled,
	Than an innocent child be neglected,
		Or one little spirit be soiled.

	I know those who give more attention
		To fashion, and things of that kind;
	But I keep for myself a prevention
		Of this fault, by bearing in mind
	The fact when we enter death's portal,
		such pleasures no longer we'll claim;
	But the souls of my babes are immortal,
		And will live to my glory, or shame.

	Dear cousin, when you are a mother,
		You'll see then, the same as I see;
	If faithful, you never can smother
		Such thoughts as you've wakened in me.
	You may yield to another's opinion,
		The arrangement of table or shelf;
	But the CHILDREN, the mother's dominion,
		You will choose to look after yourself.
											LULA.
S. L. City, Nov. 21st, 1877.

[Column 2]
not say to the hand I have no need of th[-]e,
nor the head to the feet I have no need of
you. Even those members which seem
most feeble in the human frame are necessa-
ry, and so," as the Apostle continues, "is
the case with the church or body of Christ."
We are all necessary, howe'er feeble in un-
derstanding; and as you say we must pro-
gress—onward and upward!
	Aunt Em, how often I have wished of
late that I might become a blessing and a
benefactor to my people. It constantly oc-
cupies my thoughts and is always men-
tioned in my prayers. What a comfort it
must be to declining age, and to the last
hours of the dying man, to know that his
name will live after him in the hearts of
his cotemporaries and generations then un-
born. Not as the hero of a thousand battle-
fields, who "wades through slaughter to a
throne," whose wreath of glory is stained
with the blood of innocence, and whose
song of triumph mingles with the groans of
the dying and is echoed by the curses of pos-
terity; nor as the noisy political demagogue
who prostitutes his talents and the office to
which hypocrisy and an over-credulous pub-
lic has lifted him, to self-aggrandizement
and the subversion of the rights of his
fellowmen; nor in any walk in life as one
who works for nought but wealth and popu-
larity; but as the public benefactor, the
votary of benevolence, the man of the peo-
ple, who spends his life, energies, and men-
tal endowments for the advancement and
salvation of his fellow creatures. He is
the true hero, and the only one whose name
will survive the resurrection morn. All
else is of the earth, earthy, and will crum-
ble at the sound of the trump that bespeaks
its dissolution. Virtue alone will live for-
ever, and grow brighter with its age. Your
remarks on the future of Zion I appreciate
to the uttermost. We have a glorious his-
tory before us, an era for which we must
prepare. Would that we all could see the
fact as a few do! For taken throughout, in
view of the blessed privileges awaiting us,
and our superior advantages over the entire
outer world, we are criminally careless and
ignorant. Especially is this the case with
the young. They know nothing of their
true position—I now speak from my per-
sonal experience before a merciful Provi-
dence opened my eyes to the truth. There
are hundreds of them right in our own city
who are just the same as I was. Self-con-
ceited, wilful and irreverent, studying
everything and learning nothing, without a
care for the present or a hope for the future,
so far as concerns eternal salvation. This
state of things cannot exist much longer;
the time is too far spent. God will not
countenance it. It devolves as a solemn
duty upon parents, teachers and employers,
together with all who are now rescued from
the dangerous sloughs of sloth and infidel-
ity, to join their efforts for the redemption
of their brethren, children and friends.
The youth of Zion must reform, and God
grant it speedily. Every Saint should be a
missionary, for of a surety the harvest is
great and the laborers but few. "Awake,
awake! put on thy strength, O Zion; put
on thy beautiful garments. Shake thyself
from the dust; loose thyself from the bands
of thy neck, O captive daughter of Zion."
	I have filled two public appointments in
Kirtland village. I am now staying at
Uncle Sam's, and have done considerable
exhorting by the fireside, wherever chances
were presented, but I am not encouraged to
believe my efforts were productive of any
manifest benefit, save in one or two in-
stances, and even these are conjectural
merely.

[Column 3]
	I like the idea of a home literature. 'Tis
pleasant to think of what the next decade
may bring forth, though, as you say, it re-
quires pecuniary assistance.
	I shall return to Elyria within a month.
Have not seen an EXPONENT for two months,
but suppose they are all awaiting me in
Elyria. If you write soon address Mentor;
Lake Co, O.; otherwise Elyria, as hereto-
fore.
	Yours very truly,			ORT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

	KIRTLAND, OHIO, Nov. 15, 1877.
DEAR AUNT EM:
	Your favor of the 4th inst. came to hand
a day or two ago, and, as usual, pleased me
with its interesting contents. The very
topic so dear to you, but which you present
to me with an apology for so doing, is the
one which engaged my closest attention; so 
you see, in a measure, I am not the same
being as when frivolity was a ruling char-
acteristic of my nature. But I do not mean
to play the egotist—all I wish to say is that
I too claim a deep and abiding, a growing
and earnest sympathy with all that pertains
to the upbuilding of Zion. Her destiny is
mine, for I am a part of her; her name is 
dear, for it is a theme of which I never
weary; her people are my people, her God
my God. I am but a feeble portion of the 
great and increasing whole, a slender piece
of the stupendous frame; but in the hands
of the Almighty, who takes the weak things
of the world to accomplish His purposes,
who can say what I may not do to be useful
to the cause of Zion? Moreover, "we are
not one member, but many; the eye can


R. S. REPORTS.

	MALAD, IDAHO.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Having read the EXPONENT, and know-
ing the interest you take in the Relief So-
cieties in any portion of the vineyard, I
thought a few items from our quiet little
corner might be interesting and acceptable.
Our Society was organized February 11,
1874, Mrs. Jane Price was selected as Pres-
ident; Mrs. Ann Daniels and Mrs Esther
Lusk Counselors; Mrs. Martha Jones as
Treasurer, we have twenty-six teachers and
eighty members. We are not many in
numbers, but we feel united in our efforts
and desire to be one in all our works and ac-
tions, that the spirit of the Lord may rest
upon us in our undertakings. We have
been buying grain according to the counsel
of the servants of the Lord; and we intend
to take every available means to buy more.
The teachers feel like doing their best, in-
structing the saints to love one another and
to encourage the spirit of kindness one to-
wards another, that they may live their holy
religion and be faithful to their covenants.
The Lord has truly blest us in our labors of
love among our sisters. We have made
several good quilts, some for the poor and
some to sell and buy grain. We had the
pleasure of holding a conference here on
Sunday, October 21, several brethren from
Salt Lake City being present, also Elder
Lorenzo Snow and his son Oliver Snow, our
beloved President, Elder George Dunford
who was ordained our Presiding Bishop,
his counselors and other brethren. We
had good advice and instruction, and the 
spirit of kindness and encouragement will
long be remembered. Our local brethren
often pay us a visit in our general meetings
which we hold once in two weeks, and bless
and cheer us; teaching us to be faithful in 
the good work we have begun for the up-
building of the kingdom of God, and
strengthening the hands of our President
Mrs. Jane Price who is laboring with us,
and reminding the saints to be obedient to 
the counsel they receive from time to time;
we are striving to prevail upon the saints
to realize the importance of home manufac-
ture; some can see the benefit to be obtain-
ed by following this counsel, and we pray
the Lord to open the eyes of the under-
standing of those that cannot see, that they
may obey good counsel and pursue a praise-
worthy course in life.
	Ever praying for the prosperity of Zion
and the success of the EXPONENT, I sub-
scribe myself your fellow laborer.
	ANNE SAWYER, Sec'y.


THE WORKING WOMAN'S Hotel, New York
City, erected by legacy from A. T. Stewart, is
now nearly finished, and will be opened, it is 
expected, on New Year's day. "It is said to
exceed any hotel in the city in its construction
and arrangement, and thoroughness of appoint-
ment."


100		WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	-	-	-	-	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $[-].00: one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonpareil space, one
time, $2.00: per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
				Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
							Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, DEC. 1, 1877.


[Column 1]

FITNESS FOR PRACTICAL WORK.

	Men and women of prestige in this age are
becoming so thoroughly practical that every
thing seems about to be measured by its adapt-
ation to use. That theory, or rule, which can-
not be made conveniently subservient to prac-
tical purposes, is deemed next to worthless,
the term "not practical" is continually being
applied to plans which do not succeed well, or
inventions which have not been utilized. Men
of all classes and professions are estimated not
so much according to the knowledge they pos-
sess, as the faculty or tact they have for its
utilization, in pursuing the varied affairs of
life.
	It is only by gradual processes that sure re-
sults are attained; and if any system of reform
in society is introduced by women, it cannot
be made eminently practical immediately.
Work progresses according to the fitness of
those who prosecute it, and much may, and
does depend upon earnestness and devotion to
the cause one may be engaged in. In any con-
dition of life, those who prepare for certain,
special places are more likely to fill them with
dignity and credit to themselves and all inter-
ested, than those who jump into, or usurp po-
sitions for which they were not previously pre-
pared. To be sure the Lord sometimes quali-
fies persons by some special interposition, as
He did "Jesus' disciples," but this is in excep-
tional cases, when the exigencies of a time, or
times demand it. Such persons are usually re-
ferred to as having rare endowments, or fine
talents, which circumstances mold at the mo-
ment of action, making them equal to the
emergency.
	This day is spoken of as the Woman's day,
or as one in which woman is moving forward
and claiming rights and privileges which have
long been denied her; and is it not absolutely
essential that women should prepare them-
selves for the blessings of freedom and inde-
pendence in thought and action, which they,
some of them, claim and desire to enjoy, as an
inherent and God-given boon? We believe it
is:
	The laws of the land in withholding politi-
cal freedom from woman, have by very conse-
quence, also wrought, out her moral, mental and
social slavery. Can they then as a class rise in
one supreme moment from ignominious bond-
age which has enthralled them body and soul,
to a high standard of mental and social great-
ness, such as some conceive to be the true
ideal of their ambitious hopes? No! woman as
well as man must qualify herself for that to
which she aspires. It does not signify only,
that she may be good and pure, but she must
also comprehend what is her mission and the
necessary qualification for the fulfillment of
that definite labor, by all available means and

[Column 2]

opportunities; that she may become equal to
the position she desires to maintain. Other-
wise she cannot expect to retain a firm hold of
rights that may come to her through the inter- 
vention of others, who have qualified them-
selves not only to assert and maintain their
own respective rights, but have stood boldly
forth in the defense of their less courageous sis-
ters. Of what use is the ballot in the hands
of women who will not use it, who cannot be
made to understand it as an avenue of escape
from wrongs and outrages, as a door by which
woman may enter, a wider sphere of usefulness
and through her influence,potent in its power,
cleanse, and purify, and renovate much that is
radically wrong, immoral and impure. If ever
modern society is purified from the moral pes-
tilence which now pervades its ranks, if ever
intemperance is checked, woman must in a
material, efficient and practical manner, aid in
its renovation. It is no doubt her true province
to assist in restoring a purer and higher tone
to society, but will man allow her to do it ac-
cording to her own broad and philanthropic
ideas and sentiments? Not yet! But when
women as a class, are educated up to that high-
er standard of excellence, when they are so
thoroughly systematized in the work they have
undertaken, that of reformation in social life,
then they will be able to brook all restraint
imposed by man-made laws, and achieve the
triumph over custom and tradition which now
binds them with galling chains. The wo-
men of America have begun, other countries
are following her glorious example, and even-
tually, (God willing) woman will regain her
true position as man’s companion and co- 
worker.
	Mormon women have had some peculiar ex-
periences, and opportunities for discipline, that
ought to have materially aided them in a
higher education than the women of the world
enjoy. The system of woman’s work organized
here in Utah, should, if the sisters would fit
themselves efficiently, prepare them for prac-
tical work in every department in life which
pertains to the mission of perfect womanhood. 
Can they be made to realize these things? Are
they moving forward and becoming useful to
the extent of their ability? In short, do they
seek to educate and qualify themselves to stand
as helpmeets to the brethren, who are building
up Zion? This is a subject on which much
might be said. Of what use is it to clamor for
posiion, if one is not fitted for the work it in-
volves? None whatever. The work to be done
requires not only the few, who may be diligent
and lead out, but it requires the universal help
of all the women in Israel; and when in one
strong phalanx they shall unite, having fitted
themselves for practical helpfulness, then will
not glad shouts of Hosanna arise, and will not
all the people with one accord say Amen?


HOME AFFAIRS.

THE COMMITTEE of Consultation in the in-
terest of WOMAN'S EXPONENT, is respectfully
requested to meet at the office of WOMAN'S
EXPONENT, Tuesday, Dec. 4, at 2 o’clock, p. m.
A punctual attendance is required.
 COL. J. R. Winder and Gen. R. T. Burton
returned Tuesday evening, from a business trip
to Chicago.  They have been transacting busi-
ness for the Co-operative Tannery and Woolen
Factories.
 BISHOP JOHN Sharp left for New York City
this morning on business.  Mrs. Nellie
R. Webber accompanied him to meet her
husband, who is on his way home from his
mission to Europe, having been recalled to at-
tend to business here.
	In remembrance of our own school-days in
New Salem, Mass., we publish the following,
clipped from the Woman's Journal, of Boston:
 "New Salem, Mass., is proud of its district
school, under charge of Mrs. Hattie A. Clary,
formerly Miss Bridges of Deerfield, which closed
with an examination and exhibition last week.
Special prominence has been given to drawing,
and, with 1400 days of attendance by twenty-
eight pupils, there have been but thirteen days
absence."
 DR. ROMANIA B. PRATT has opened her office
in the 12th Ward, 2d South St., between 5th
and 6th East Streets.  She has made a specialty
of eye and ear diseases, having taken special
courses in the Eye department of Drs. Noyes,
Little and Callan, of the New York Eye and
Ear Infirmary, and of Dr. McClure of Well’s
Hospital, and of Dr. Heyl of the Philadelphia
Dispensary, of Philadelphia.  She also took a
clinical course on the ear, of Dr. Burnett, the
first Ansal surgeon of Philadelphia.  She also
gives special attention to obstetrics and diseases
of women.
 MRS. D. P. Bowers, an actress of some con-
siderable fame, played in the Salt Lake Thea-
tre three evenings this week.  Queen Eliza-
beth, Lady Audley and Camille were the parts
she represented.  Her voice is pleasant, her
manners graceful, and her rendering of each of
these characters exquisitely poetical.  Mr. Mc-
Collum, who travels with her, is an actor of
prepossessing appearance and more than aver-
age abilty. They have drawn good houses,
even in “these hard times.” They were well
supported by the local dramatic company.
 ERRATA.--In the minutes of the Relief So-
ciety meeting of the First Ward, published in
No. 12, Nov. 15, on the 6th page, a mistake oc-
curred, which we consider it necessary to cor-
rect.  In the remarks made by Miss E. R.
Snow, which commence with the last para-
graph of the second column, we have published
"We were not sent here to consult our own
consciences;” which should read “we were not
sent here to consult our own convenience.”
	In the R.S. Report of Honeyville, published
in Sept. 1st, No. 7, in stating the amount of
wheat stored—55 bushels—a mistake in the fig-
ures made it read 505 bushels.
 ELDER O. H. Riggs returned Saturday Nov.
24 from his mission to Europe.  The English
climate seriously affected his health, and he
was therefore advised to return home. He
stayed a short time visiting his friends and ac-
quaintances in the States.  Mr. James Dwyer
returned from the East in company with Elder
Riggs.  He has been purchasing holiday goods
for the little folks’ Santa Claus.  He expects
dear old Santa Claus to come to him for his
supplies for the children's stockings and to or-
nament Christmas trees, etc.; he has also pro-
vided goods in his line suitable for all ages,
and Santa Claus will please call at Mr. James
Dwyer's and examine his stock of Merchandise
before making large purchases elsewhere.
 WE HAVE just returned from a most inter-
esting, visit to Tooele City, where we went in
company with Miss E. R. Snow and Mrs. E.
Howard.  The party of us were heartily wel-
comed by the good sisters there, and the breth-
ren too seemed pleased with the visit.  We
left by the seven o’clock train, Monday morn-
ing, Nov. 26, and on arriving at the nearest
point adjacent to Tooele, found Brother Tate
and wife and Mrs. Micklejohn in waiting, with
a carriage and fine spirited span of horses.
	The meeting was at two o’clock; meantime


[Column 1]
we had the opportunity of meeting at the
house of Brother Robert Micklejohn, where
we took dinner, Bishop Tuttle of Tooele, his
wife and daughter, Mrs. Annie Musser, a dear
friend of ours, and several other good sisters
from Lakeview. At the meeting house (a good,
substantial, rock building) we met with Mrs.
Hunter, the President of the Relief Society of
Grantsville, and several other sisters from that
place, who had come over to attend the meet-
ings. The afternoon meeting was under the
auspices of the Relief Society, presided over
by Mrs. Elizabeth Clegg, Counselor to Mrs.
Micklejohn, who was called away to attend a
sick person.
	The meeting house is commodious and well-
finished inside, has a large, comfortable vestry
adjoining, and a gallery opposite the stand.
The singing was excellent, the selections choice
and well rendered. After the sisters from Salt
Lake had spoken, Bishop Tuttle made some
most sententious remarks. The house was well
filled, and prior to adjournment a notice was
given out that the meeting in the evening
would be conducted by the Young Ladies M.
I. Association; The Young Men's M. I. A.
were invited to join them, also a general invi-
tation extended to all who wished to attend.
The house was well filled, a larger number of
brethren being present than is usual at such
meetings. The Superintendent of the Asso-
ciation, Mrs. Tate, presided. Miss Emily War-
burton, Secretary, read the minutes of their
last meeting, which gave some idea of the
work they are doing in the interest of the
kingdom of God. Miss E. R. Snow addressed
the meeting, speaking on almost all the differ-
ent topics of the greatest importance in laying
the foundation for a life of usefulness here,
and living for an exaltation hereafter. Mrs.
Howard, in her remarks, dwelt considerably
upon the necessity of economy, and strongly
advised the young people to marry and settle
down without waiting to accumulate wealth
first. She also urged the young men to be
temperate, to leave off bad habits, if they had
been addicted to any. President F. M. Lyman
made some excellent remarks at the close of
the meeting, and expressed himself well pleased
with the sisters' visit and their instructions to
the people. Meeting adjourned until eleven
o'clock the following day. Tuesday morning
at eleven o'clock, a goodly number of brethren
and sisters were assembled; Mrs. Micklejohn
presided. After singing and prayer, Secretary
Mrs. Emily Warburton read the minutes of
their last meeting. They gave a very good
idea of the condition of the Society, and were
rich in testimony of the Gospel, and the good
spirit and feelings of those who were associat-
ed together in works of charity and love. The
subjects treated upon by the sisters who spoke
were the duties and responsibilities of women,
especially mothers, the training of the youth,
the development of capabilities through cul-
ture and proper discipline, the influence of
women upon society and in the formation of
the character of nations, celestial marriage, its
relationships and its advantages. This meet-
ing adjourned until half past six in the eve-
ning, when the house was again filled, The
people paid strict attention to the speakers in
all the meetings, and good order was strictly
observed. Indeed we have never seen more
attentive audiences. We thank the good peo-
ple of Tooele for the many kindnesses and gen-
erous hospitality extended to the party during
their brief stay, and trust that some good seed
may have been sown, that will yield fruit in
due season. These visits of the sisters to the
various settlements, in the interest of Relief 
Societies and Young Ladies' Associations, have

[Column 2]
in some instances been productive of great
good in awakening the slothful and indifferent
to a sense of the responsibilities devolving up-
on them in this day and age of the world.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.		0


[Column 1]
				DISCOURSE
					BY
PRESIDENT BRIGHAM YOUNG,
				DELIVERED
In the Tabernacle, Ogden, at a Meeting of the
	Relief Societies of Weber County,
			July 19th, 1877.

		REPORTED BY JAMES TAYLOR.

				[CONTINUED.]

	Here are mothers. Who give the key to the
nations of the earth with regard to their feel-
ings, pride, prejudices; their religion, habits
and customs, and, I may say, who, in a great
degree, govern, that lay the foundation for the
ability that is exhibited among the nations of 
men? It is the mothers. Who have laid the
foundations in the hearts of children to prepare
them to be great and good men? It is not the 
fathers--it is the mothers. It is like the say-
ing of the Savior with regard to the poor.
Speaking to his disciples. he says "For the 
poor always ye have with you, but me ye have
not always." Now the children are always
with the mother, and the mother is always
with the children, but the father they have not.
He is in the field, at his work; and the mother
is all the time making impressions upon the
minds of the children. Permit me here to say,
mothers, and my sisters, you who are young,
it will do you good if you will only observe it.
You see, hear and witness a good deal of con-
tention among children--some of you do, if
not all—and I will give you a few words with
regard to your future lives, that you may have
children that are not contentious, not quarrel-
some. Always be good-natured yourselves, is
the first step. Never allow yourselves to be-
come out of temper and get fretful. Why,
mother says, "this is a very mischievous little
boy or little girl." What do you see? That
amount of vitality in those little children that
they cannot be still. If they cannot do any-
thing else they will tip over the chairs, cut up
and pull away at anything to raise a row. They
are so full of life that they cannot contain
themselves; and they are something like our-
selves—boys. They have so much vitality in
them that their bones fairly ache with strength.
They have such an amount of vitality, life,
strength and activity, that they must dispose
of them; and the young ones will contend with 
each other. Do not be out of temper yourselves.
Always sympathize with them and soothe
them. Be mild and pleasant. If you see a 
child with knives and forks, playing with them,
it might put out its eyes. It will not do to give
it a hammer and a lookinglass. What will you
do? I am a person of experience, and know
how to deal with children. If the child has in 
its hand that which it should not have, let the
mother or the father, or whoever has charge of
the child or has the right, take such things from
it, and put them away where they belong. Now,
mother, listen to this—never ask a child to
give up that which it should not have. Step
up kindly and put the article where it be-
longs. The child will not say anything. A lit-
tle circumstance took place in Salt Lake City.
I had busine[-]s in a house where I had under-
stood there had been considerable trouble occa
sionally; and the mother would not let the
father speak to the children, to chastise them

[Column 2]
I went into the house and talked to the man.
The lady came in, and sat down. I pretty soon
saw a little girl, about two years old, with a 
top thimble in her mouth, sucking it. I went
up to the girl, took the thimble from her and
put it on the mantle shelf. Says I to the moth-
er—"You must not allow the child to have this
thing; if it should go into the stomach it will
decay." The man looked at me as if he would
faint away. He was a large man, but I sup-
pose he never attempted to say such a thing to
his wife in his life. I said it; and the mother
was so confounded that she did not say a word;
and it would not have done her any good if she
had. Now, if you will mind this--you bring
up your children correctly, and teach them
those principles and habits which are correct
and you will find that you will improve very
materially in your families. If you find that
the children are cruel, do not contend with
them, soothe them, and invite those who
through accident, have injured a little sister to
pity her. "You have accidentally hurt your
little sister, go and kiss her." By taking this
course you will have good children, and they
will not contend with each other. I am talk-
ing to you of that which I know. I have had
an experience in these matters.
	I will relate a little incident that occurred in
my own family. A little boy about three and 
a half years old was very ill. His mother
would feed him bread and milk, or whatever he
wished. As soon as he could stand by her,
every day he wanted his bread and milk. Just
as soon as he had got what he wanted, he would
throw up his hand, and away went the basin
to the floor. His mother did not know what to 
do. Said I, "If you will do just as I tell you, I
will tell you what to do. The next time you 
sit down to feed this little boy, when he has
got through he will knock the dish out of your
hand." Said I, "Lean him against the chair,
do not say one word to him, go to your work,
pay no attention to him whatever." She did
so. The little fellow stood there, looked at her,
watched her; then he would look at the basin
and the spoon, watch his mother, and look at
the basin and the spoon again. By and by he
got down and crept along the floor and climbed
up to the chair, and then set the basin on the
table, and crept until he got the spoon and put
it on the table. He never tried to knock that
dish out of her hand again. Now she might
have whipped him and injured him, as a great
many would have done; but if they know what
to do, they can correct the child without vio
lence.
			[To be continued]


NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE LADIES of Missouri sent a Delegate to
the funeral of Senator Morton, with a shaft of
laurel and ivy leaves, surmounted by a white
dove, from whose beak depended a wreath of
smilax and ivy, and the motto, "A slight tes-
timonial of the gratitude we bear to one who
was the unswerving advocate of Woman Suf-
frage."  The offering was made by Mrs. Fran-
ces Minor and Mrs. Phebe Cozens, of Missouri.
	FRANCE.—The resignation of the ministry
has at length been accepted by President Mac-
Mahon.  They will, however, retain their port-
folios until their successors in office are quali-
fied.  In the Chamber of Deputies, after stormy
speeches by Duc de Broglie and M. Gambetta,
the Electoral Inquiry Bill was voted by 320 to
203.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


GRAIN MEETING. 

REPORT READ AT FIRST ANNUAL MEET-
     ING, HELD IN THE COUNCIL HOUSE
     S. L. City, Nov. 17, 1877.

  At the suggestion and by the advice and 
counsel of President Brigham Young a call
was made upon the sisters through the WO-
MAN'S EXPONENT of Oct. 15, 1876 to store
up and hold in trust grain for Zion, in all
the towns and settlements of this Territory;
also to build granaries in the various locali-
ties and sections; and to solicit the brethren
for donations of grain, and to build store-
houses.  Acting promptly upon the counsel
given, a meeting was held in the Social
Hall one year ago to-day, under the auspi-
ces of a Central Committee who had been
previously appointed by the unanimous
vote of a general meeting of the sisters in the 
Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms, Nov.,
11, 1876.  The subject of storing grain was
discussed by the presiding sisters of Re-
lief Societies, and such practical measures
decided upon, and arrangements made, as
were deemed proper and advisable.  Since
that time the sisters in almost all parts of 
the Territory have been diligently follow-
ing out the instructions given on that sub-
ject, and the reports that have been re-
ceived from the different localities are a 
guarantee of the energy and good faith of 
the sisters in this noble enterprise.
   Synopsis of reports of grain stores and
held in trust by women in the various towns
and settlements of this Territory, as per re-
ports to the President of Central Commit-
tee.  These reports are from Relief Socie-
ties and Young Ladies' Associations. The
aggregate amount of grain reported in good
condition, stored within the year, since
Nov. 17, 1876 up to the present time is 
10,465 bushels.  Of this wheat 299 bush-
els were gleaned by the sisters of the 
Relief and Young Ladies' Societies.  Fifty
bushels were bought with Sunday eggs
saved by the good sisters of Dewey-
ville, Box Elder County for that ex-
press purpose.  There is also a quantity of 
flour stored and held in trust for the same 
purpose, the aggregate amount in weight
being 7,358 pounds.  The Societies have also 
on hand in cash with which to purchase
wheat forthwith $329,10; besides many ar-
ticles, such as quilts, carpets and other pro-
ducts of the labors of the sisters in their or-
ganizations as Societies, which they in-
tend disposing of to purchase wheat.  There
have been excellent gr[-]naries built in the 
17th and 15th wards of this city, and prepar-
ations are being made in several other pla-
ces to build good substantial granaries and 
store-houses.  Many of the Societies have
bins of their own in buildings belonging to 
the Society, or ward.  The Bishops, in 
many places have lent all the aid and influ-
ence possible to assist the sisters in this be-
nevolent work.  The storing up of wheat
is not allowed to interfere with other du-
ties which pertain to the calling of the sis
ters of the Relief Societies.  The wheat re-
ported here is in Salt Lake.  Utah, Mil-
lard, Beaver, Sanpete, Sevier, Summit,
Tooele, Davis, Weber, Morgan, Cache and 
Box Elder Counties.  There are several
towns and settlements that have not yet
reported to the Central Committee.
REPORT OF FIRST ANNUAL MEETING.

President Mrs. E. B. Wells presiding.
Mrs. E. Howard was nominated and accept-
ed as secretary pro tem.  President John Tay-
lor, Bishop Edward Hunter, Miss E. R. Snow,
Mrs. Bathsheba W. Smith, Mrs. Phebe Wood-
ruff, Mrs. E. A. Whitney, Mrs. M. I. Horne,
Mrs. Zina D. Young and a large congregation
of ladies of this city and near localities were 
present.  An annual report of the quantiy of 
grain stored was read by the secretary.  Re-
marks made by Bishop Hunter:  "It has been
said that bread is the staff of life.  When we
first came to these valleys, and indeed since
then, we have suffered for the want of it.
We don't want to go through so severe a trial
again; at all times we should have wheat on
hand.  The Lord has been merciful to us;
He has blessed us with much grain, and 
much of it has been wasted. but in the fu-
ture I hope we will be more careful of what
the Lord has so abundantly blessed us with.
Our Relief Societies are doing much good;
they have saved much suffering, and have
been a great help to the Bishops.  They
have the Priesthood--a portion of priest-
hood rests upon the sisters.  They are do-
ing a good work, and particularly the stor-
ing of grain is commendable.  May you
continue and succeed in your work."
 Remarks by President John Taylor: "I
am pleased to have the opportunity of meet-
ing with the sisters, and I am also glad to 
make a few remarks.  I often think the la-
bors of the sisters are not sufficiently appre-
ciated.  I look upon it that the works of the
sisters are as great in their sphere, as the
works of brethren are in theirs.  We
are mutually dependent one on the other.
 The sisters are doing an important work
in their Relief Societies; they are quite
an assistance to the Bishops, they are more
capable of entering into the feelings of 
women than men are, and there are many
little things that are essential that they
can perform much better, and are more
appropriate to their sphere.  They are use-
ful in these organizations in trying to ele-
vate the state of society, in our morals, in 
our deportment, in our actions, in our dress,
in our governing families, and many other
things in the sphere they occupy.  I know
it is a delicate thing to speak of things that
are wrong in households, or families, but in
your associations they can be considered and
try to rectify them.  For instance, there
are some people who do not know how to
use the things they are in possession of;
they are not capable of taking care of what
is put into their hands; take two families
with the same income, and you will find
quite a difference in their management; in 
one the table will not be so clean and tidy
as it should be; the bread will not be prop-
erly made, and the whole place will be
rather repulsive to one of different habits.
The other will be neat, clean, wholesome,
everything in order, and you will feel per-
fectly at home there; therefore, if we could
use an influence to make our homes clean,
neat, tidy, pleasant and cheerful we would
be doing a good work.
We want to educate our youth, to a better
and more elevated state than they are in 
at present.  A little tact, a little more por-
suasion will help our young people to do 
better; let us watch over our young sisters
and not let them associate with company
not fit for them to keep; but lead them, in-
struct them, that they may grow to be hon
orable, good, pure useful women in the 
Kingdom of God.  There are none of us 
but what need instruction, and the great ad-
vantage is in feeling right ourselves which 
we cannot do without the guidance of the 
Lord.  He will help us to instruct each oth-
er and to promote each other's welfare.
I consider this gathering and storing of 
wheat as of great importance.  I am pleased
to find that you have succeeded as well as
you have, yet you have not a great deal,
considering the size of the Territory, but 
you will increase; it puts me in mind of the 
history of Joseph; it took seven years in 
that day to prepare for the seven years that 
was to come; we have not got any defined
time but we will have to keep pace with 
the growth of our families, which you know
are increasing rapidly.  I will tell you an 
anecdote I read somewhere."  President
Taylor then related an anecdote, which il-
lustrated woman's intuition in the affairs of 
life.
"If you ladies can help us and succeed in 
saving wheat for a case of emergency, it 
will be one of the greatest acts of state-
manship that could occur.  We have been 
careless, we did not save our wheat as we 
should have done, and now if the sisters
take heed to these things the men will find
out that their wives have been wise in doing 
this thing according to counsel.  The ladies
are generally considered the weaker and 
most beautiful sex; but if we all do our part
we will be in a position to receive the bless-
ings of the Lord.  I am pleased to see that 
our young sisters are taking an active part
in this work.  Let us improve in our man-
ners, improve in sisterly and brotherly feel-
ing and in all that will make us feel that 
we are an integral part of the Kingdom of
God.  May God bless you and lead you in 
the paths of life.  Amen."
[To be continued.]


HONOR.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	In my observations in daily life on charac-
ter I have particularly noted the want of
honor among the generality of people in the
small affairs of life, even those who have
been liberally educated, from whom we
have a right to expect all that constitutes a
true lady or gentleman. Where we find
honor is wanting in a character a feeling of
contempt at once springs up and the mer-
cury in our heart's glass runs down, perhaps
below zero! If we see honor in small things
it is a guarantee that it will be exercised
in matters of importance. Our simple
word, we should make a point of duty to
perform and endorse by action. Trifles
shew character often more than great ac-
tions, as straws show which way the wind
blows; were honor and order strictly obeyed
we should have much less need of law; I
will illustrate this by saying in England,
where horse-racing has been, time imme-
morial, a national entertainment, and large
sums of money are lost and won, and being
a species of gambling, the law does not per-
mit debts incurred therein to be recovered
by it, it is therefore thrown upon honor,
and those who fail to meet such debts, are
branded as "black-legs" and never permit-
ted to enter the race course again, even
though he were a prince of the royal fam-
ily of England. Another instance where
honor was beautifully exemplified, was in the
life of the great Richard Brinsley Sheridan
who was of the nobility of England, but of
very small fortune; he possessed talents of
the highest order, as a statesman and ora-
tor, brilliant and beloved as an associate
and friend, and was courted by the highest
and greatest; but poverty was his bane, for
his position obliged him to live expensive-
ly. Byron says he once saw him shed tears
and say he never had a shilling to call his
own; of course he was often in debt, and
one day a tradesman called, and requested
to see him, the footman carried his request
to his master, who told him to show him


up; Sheridan was writing as he entered,
and presented his bill of some hundred
pounds, Sheridan ran his eye over the pa-
per, and candidly said, I am unable to pay
this; I have not the money; "Pardon me
Sir," said the man of business respectfully,
"but I perceive you have written a cheque
for a higher sum than my bill," "That is
true" answered Sheridan, "but this is a
debt of honor!" The tradesman instantly
tore his bill into shreds, saying, now sir,
mine is a debt of honor!" All readers will
remember Byron's inimitable monody on
the death of this renowned man, concluding:
"Nature made but one such a man, and
broke the die in molding Sheridan." These
cases will illustrate the dignity of honor.
and men and women who are careful to ob-
serve it are of a far higher type than those
who neglect it. Scripture also in its brief
but ever impressive language says, "Whoso
sweareth to his neighbor and disappointeth
him not, though it be to his own hindrance,
shall not fall." Everything that has truth
in it belongs to the Saints of Latter-days.
We can read the lives of the great and the
noble, both men and women, and learn les-
sons of importance from them, even though
some of them were pagans, their characters
were so high and noble in tone that they
stood as burning and shining lights to the
world" for unknown to them they were led
by the hand of their Maker, "though un-
seen, and guided by His voice."


WOMAN'S EXPONENT﻿.


[Column 1]
		CORRESPONDENCE.

	LAIE, OAHU, SANDWICH ISLANDS,
						Oct. 12, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I regret to say I am not prepared to give
you a sketch of the history of this little dot
of land, and people, situated in the midst
of the great Pacific Ocean, as you desired,
for I have seen but little of the country
and people, being confined to this small
Mormon settlement, Laie, the gathering
place for the Saints here. Should an op-
portunity present itself for me to glean any-
thing of interest on the subject, I will gladly
communicate the same for the benefit of
the many readers of our woman's paper.
The Elders of this mission reached here in
time for our October Conference; to us it
was a re-union of dear friends, and I think
none but those who have been deprived of
those of our faith, engaged in the same
cause that we are, and alike strangers in a
strange land, can better appreciate each
other's society than we. Elders Lambert,
Woolley and families were released a few
days since to return to the dear ones at
home, and are now on their way home to
Salt Lake City. They have performed a
long and faithful mission here; their de-
parture leaves me the only white woman at
Laie, or within twenty miles of this place;
so you see I do not indulge in that much to
be detested propensity of gossiping and
backbiting. I thought I should be very
lonesome, but I seem to content myself
much better than I expected. My labors
and cares seem to occupy my mind and
drive away all thought of my seclusion,
and the Spirit of the Lord seems to remind
me that I have a mission to perform among
this people, and notwithstanding their
many faults, the spirit of Charity seems to
urge us to be lenient and to continue our
exertions in their behalf, that a remnant of
them may be saved.
	This is a kind-hearted, hospitable people,
strangers and friends are alike made wel-
come to their store of provisions as long as

[Column 2]
they last, and when gone they all fast to-
gether, without murmuring, until some
more is provided. They frequently go one
and two days without eating, and especially
in times of scarcity of food, which is a very
common occurrence, they being of a dis-
position "to take no thought for the mor-
row," and neglect to plant in the season
thereof. This nation is fast dwindling
away both from the effects of disease and
barrenness—probably not more than one
woman in ten becomes a mother. They
appear to be very fond of children, but,
strange to say, mothers think nothing of
giving their offspring away and adopting
others in their stead; this has been custom-
ary with them from time immemorial, and
many of their old traditions cling tena-
ciously to them,- notwithstanding their
advances in civilization, and it is not prob-
ble, from present appearances, that even the
light of the Holy Gospel will enable them
to overcome many of them in this genera-
tion.
	We had an excellent Conference here on
the 6th and 7th inst. President W. E.
Pack, and Elders J. Keeler and S. M. Mo-
len were appointed to labor at this place,
Laie; Elder J. S. Woodbury to travel on
the islands of Kanai and Oahu; Elder H.
P. Richards on the islands of Mani, Molo-
kai and Lanai; Elder J. Gates, Jun., on the
island of Hawaii; for which places they
will take their departure in a few days.
	With kind remembrances to all our
friends, I am your sister,
					JANE E. MOLEN.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	TWELFTH WARD, S. L. CITY, Nov. 13.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Synopsis of the minutes of the re-organ-
ization meeting of the Young Ladies' Re-
trenchment Association. The meeting was
called to order by the President Romania
B. Pratt; singing by the choir, reading of
minutes, etc.
	There were several members of other
wards present among whom were Sisters
E. A. Whitney, M. I. Horne, E. R. Snow,
Z. D. Young and many other prominent sis-
ters of the Relief Society, and Elder Mi-
lando Pratt. Remarks were first made by
President Romania B. Pratt. She was happy
to have the privilege of attending to-day
and meeting with those assembled, she
hoped the young ladies would combine to
make the meetings interesting and for one
she would do her best. Mrs. Horne spoke
of the advantages to be gained from these
associations, and gave some excellent ad-
vice to her hearers. She dwelt most es-
pecially on the subject of the youth of our
Church that parents should be careful in 
the training of their children, to bring them
up in the paths of truth and virtue, and
they should take pains to win the confi-
dence of their offspring, thereby gain-
ing a great reward; more rests with the
mother than she generally realizes, and it
is her duty to watch her own children,from
their earliest infancy, to the time when
they shall know and do for themselves. 
And in return for all the kindness and care
bestowed upon them, shall the girls and
boys give nothing? They are in a position
to do a great work, and the young ladies
do not realize to the fullest extent, the
privileges they have in meeting together
and talking to each other, nor do they ap-
preciate it as they should. Young ladies 
should choose their company and in so do-
ing be careful in their selections; another

[Column 2]

thing, they should always let their parents
know where and with whom they are asso-
ciating. The subject of gathering was al-
so touched upon by Mrs. Horne and several
other things were alluded to. Sister Zina
D. Young said that the women have a work
to perform which is already begun, and we
must be up and doing, and be diligent and
true helpmeets to our husbands and fathers.
The organizations among the women in
this church were instituted by the Lord.
There were people right here in our midst
who would speak disrespectfully of Celes-
tial Marriage, but they had a darkness in
their minds which must sometime be
cleared away; said many other good things.
Miss E. R. Snow said she felt honored to
have the privilege of associating with the
saints. Before arising, she had experien-
ced a great variety of feelings. The ques-
tion arose in her mind, “What were we
here for? And the answer "For the promo-
tion of the welfare of the young," speedily
followed. She thought there should have
been at least one hundred and fifty of the
brethren here, and felt to bless the one
brother who had attended. Have the men
no interest in the welfare of the young! If
it had been a cattle show, they would have
turned out in full force. She had known as
many as one hundred and fifty brethren to
attend one of the sisters meetings; she said
there is an apathy on the part, not only of
the fathers, but the mothers, in regard to
the position of the young. She told the
young sisters it was their privilege to com-
mune with God; to realize that they were
born to be Saviors on Mt. Zion. She said God
was calling on the sisters in unison with the
brethren to do what he has been calling on
the saints to perform for years, and they
want the assistance of the young sisters.
When called before the Holy Tribunal, she
added, will we think of the pleasure we
enjoyed in this world, or will we consider
the good we have or might have done?
She said a record is kept by some one be-
sides your secretary here; no matter how
accurately she writes your minutes, it is all
put down in another book. Young sisters,
take care of your health, of your bodies,
but do not spend all for these, spare some
time in feeding your souls. And now, no
matter how good you are, begin from to-day
and live for God. This organization of
young ladies was revealed by the Lord.
Sister Whitney sung a song of Zion. Mrs.
E. B. Wells said she thought there were
some women in the Gentile world who were
trying to reform society, but they had not
the advantages with which we were bless-
ed, however more will be required of us;
because we have had opportunities that
others have not. We had a more systematic
organization, on a more permanent found-
ation.
	Elder Milando Pratt made some very
good remarks. He said he had been much
interested in the proceedings this afternoon,
and was pleased with the privilege of hear-
ing the sisters speak. He related some of
his experience while on a mission.
	Mrs. Pratt arose and said she had felt
God's spirit burning in her bosom, and
thought we all had. Said it had been
moved and seconded that the name of the
society be changed to Y. L. M. I. A. The
vote was unanimous. It was also moved
seconded and carried that Misses Josephine
Young and Elizabeth Kingsbury be accept-
ed as fifth and sixth counselors to the presi-
dent of this society.
	Meeting adjourned, and closed with usual
exercises.
	MAMIE YOUNG, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

WORK ADAPTED TO THE WORKERS.

	Extract from the paper read by Mrs. An-
toinnette Brown Blackwell, at the Woman's
Congress:
	"Pecuniary independence wonderfully
promotes mental and moral independence.
*	* 'Give me neither poveriy or riches'
is a good prayer; but in this age, the major-
ity of women are not destined to become
rich in their own right and certainly not as
the reward of their own industry.	*	*
There is many a woman who would be pro-
foundly glad to own something in a differ-
ent sense from that which is hers as a part of
the general family estate. The need is al-
most as imperative in the grown daughters
as in the wife.
	No one who has reflected upon the diffi-
culties which hedge about every scheme for
adjusting with equity the involved proper-
ty interests of the family, can for a moment
doubt, that our civilization being essentially
what it now is, it would be well if the wo-
men of many households had some profes-
sion, some specialty, by which, without
relinquishing home-duties, they could yet
honorably earn, at least, something for cur-
rent pocket money. Home-duties preclude,
and must always preclude, their taking up
business occupations after the usual routine
of masculine methods. Exceptional wo-
men are doing this; exceptional talent can
always prescribe work and methods of work
for itself, but to average womanhood do-
mestic arrangements are not adapted to or-
dinary business enterprises.
	One may hold, as I do, that a good wife
is justly entitled to one half of the property
of the wedded firm. For all that, no true
woman who found her husband struggling
with pecuniary embarrassments would feel
at liberty to expend a dollar which was not
rigidly indispensable; and if the partner of
one's joys, as well as sorrows, though mod-
erately prosperous, was always feeling the
need for a larger capital, or lived in chronic
eagerness to become rich, the coveted luxu-
ry, if purchased under such conditions,
would become ashes on the lips; yet if a
wife had been paid by strangers for some
special work of her own, she might, per-
haps, expend that sum with a satisfied con-
science. Or if she chose rather to add such
earnings to the family store, the luxury of
doing so, would be especially refreshing.
	What then can be done practically in sim-
ilar cases? We will not ask what would be
best in an ideal society, which may come
some time in the future; but what can be
accomplished in the present state of things
as now existing? Is it better for vigorous
and sensible American women to be always
doing without something which they very
much desire, or is it perhaps best, that with-
out relinquishing most of their usual house-
hold employments, they should search out
ways of directly earning money enough to
enable them to gratify their own personal
tastes and requirements?		*	*
	We cannot doubt that tens of thousands
would eagerly elect to earn, if the earning
were feasible without loss of caste. Very
many advantages would accrue from the
broadening of occupations. Life would be
less a round of common place, and the sense
of genuine independence, would be delight-
ful, if only as a novelty. Could this be
even partially effected, its broadest good
would lie in the fact that remunerative
work might thus become as honorable to
women as to men.
	The earning once achieved, all the rest is

[Column 2]

easy and natural. The trouble has been
that so few women have even thought of
positive earnings that the whole class has
been forced into a pernicious system of
money-saving, which has left nearly all
feminine industries some centuries behind
the industries of men.
	Cleveland, Ohio, Oct. 1877.


[Column 1]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.,
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style. Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
						JOSEPHINE GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.				97 Kimball Block.

	The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.

	[Image of a knitting machine]

	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner. Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail filled promptly.
							GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
									Proprietors.

		NEW FALL STOCK.

	F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pa'rs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cu[-] and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West. Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods. Etc. Etc.

	THE LADIES
		Are invited to call and inspect the stock of
Home Manufactured Goods
					IN THE 
		OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDINC.
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and
Fancy Articles of all descriptions.
			MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

		ROWE'S
			CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
	Big Boot, Main Street.

	No Cheap Shoddy Goods Kept.

		HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
	CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
	READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
			AT
TEASDEL'S.

	Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
	OFFICE AND RESIDENCE in 12th Ward on
2d South St., between 5th and 6th East Sts.,
six blocks East of Post Office.

[Column 2]
	Z. C. M. I.
		Wholesale and Retail Dealing
			in all kinds of
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
	HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
		GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
		STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
	AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENTS, &c.

DAVID JAMES
		(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter,
			AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
		Pumps Repaired on short notice.
☞ Orders from the country promptly responded to. ☜
		Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

		THE FINE ARTS.

	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence. Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock. Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
			Send your orders to		C. R. SAVAGE
								Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
	Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
				for five years, on
	INSTALMENTS
				OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS.
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly, or six
monthly. Prices low and no interest charged. Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
			CALDER & CARELESS.

MRS. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
	In connection with the above, Ladies' Hair Work in
all its branches. Good work guaranteed.

	NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
	DRY GOODS,
					IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
	Opposite the Herald Office. Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY,
	WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
	SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES.
Feathers Wall Paper
		AND
	BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake City


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.
