Vol. 6.	SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, MARCH 1, 1878	No. 19.


AN OPEN VISION.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

Angels still are on the earth,
	I have seen them, felt their breath,
In the chill simooning dearth,
	In the atmosphere of death.

Angels? yes, they hovered round
	When affliction laid me low,
Placing me on holy ground,
	Leaving Heaven where they go.

Angels! they have bronght to me
	All that I had strength to bear,
Through the gloom they made me see
	Visions, glorious, bright and fair.

Angels! heaven is in the name—
	On my track they've ever been,
If one left, another came,
	Faithful through life's changing scene.

Angels! some stand by me now,
	Firm and faithful by my side,
Last, but first of all below,
	Treasured with a holy pride.

Last, but oh! my most approved!
	Brothers, sisters, helpmeets mine!
Trying scenes thy love has proved
	And my heart is ever thine!

Last, but truer than the first,
	Bound by links that form a chain
Time, nor change can ever burst,
	Through Eternity's domain!

Brothers, sisters, leave me not,
	Let me never more know change—
Thou canst never be forgot
	Through Eternity's broad range.

When, oh! when shall my rapt soul
	Clasp your hands in realms divine?
Bound by laws the Gods control,
	Then each will whisper Mine and Thine!

S. L. City, Feb. 6, 1878.


[Column 1]

NOTES AND NEWS.

	THE black veil was taken, Tuesday, Jan.
9, by six young women at the convent of
the Sisters of Mercy in Hartford, Ct.
	MRS. CAROLINE A. Soule, in Nebraska,
on Sunday, Dec. 19, organized the First
Universalist parish at Tecumseh with
thirty-two members. "Surely the world
moves."—Ex.
	IT IS stated that the House-committee
on Territories have agreed to report un-
favorably on the admission of Utah as a
state. It is thought nothing will be done
to deprive women in this Territory of the 
the ballot.
	THE NEW Pope, Leo XIII, has been for-
mally installed in office. There are various
reports in circulation as to the future course
of action in reference to the Italian Govern-
ment. It is now believed he will for the 
present remain in seclusion in the Vatican.
	MRS. ISABELLA Beecher Hooker had a
hearing before the senate-committee on
privileges and elections, on the 22d ult.
She said the corner-stone of the American
Republic was God's own doctrine of per-
sonal liberty and personal responsibility.
She defined Liberty as the steam, Respon-
sibility as the brakes, election-day the safe-
ty-valve. She maintained among other
things the assertion that Lucretia Mott
could long ago have settled peacefully some
of the most unpopular and knotty problems
of the day without a standing army.

[Column 2]

	TELEGRAMS OF the 28th ult. state that
the treaty of peace between Russia and 
Turkey is on the point of being signed. It
is thought possible the Grand Duke Nicho-
las will visit the Sultan at Constantinople.
The 26, Vienna Special says: Austria will
not submit to some of the preliminary ar-
rangements for peace between the two
great hostile powers as it will infringe upon
her grounds.
	THE Princess Mercedes, King Alfonso's
future wife, though bred in France, is a 
Spaniard at heart, and insists on being call-
ed Spanish, yet there has hitherto been a 
strong prejudice against her marriage, her
father, the Duc de Montpensier, being wide-
ly unpopular because of the fatal duel with 
his cousin, Don Enrique de Bourdon, and
his pronunciamento of Cadiz, which began
the series of political convulsions that has
hardly ceased to agitate Spain.
	MISS RHODA Broughton, the authoress,
lives the greater part of the time in the
beautiful vale of Clwyd, Wales, and has
doubtless derived her love of scenery and
her power of describing it from constantly
having before her the mountains and vales
of that beautiful country. She is about
thirty years of age, and is described as
"spiritual in expression, with a light, quick,
impatient manner. Her face is an intel-
lectual one, with an appearance of active
imagination. She has a good figure, of 
about the average height.
	THE WOMAN SUFFRAGE HEARING.—On
Tuesday, Jan. 29, the Committee on Wo-
man Suffrage of the Massachusetts Legis-
lature, gave a public hearing to the peti-
tioners, in the Green Room of the State
House, in Boston. The attendance was
very large, and evidently in sympathy
with the petitioners. The first speaker was
Mr. Henry B. Blackwell, who said:—
	Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen:—In be-
half of the thousands of petitioners who 
are already before you, and of thousands
more, who, day by day, are sending in simi-
lar petitions, I desire to state, 1st, What we
ask: 2d, Why we ask: and 3d, By whom
the request is made.
	1. For a change in the law which regu-
lates elections for town, city and county
officers, removing the restriction of sex, so
that, hereafter, women may be enabled to
vote in such elections, on the same terms as
men.
	2. For a change in the law which regu-
lates Presidential elections, removing the
restriction of sex, so that hereafter women
may be enabled to vote for electors of Pres-
ident and Vice-President of the United
States.
	3. For a Joint Resolve for a Constitution-
al Amendment abolishing all political dis-
tinctions on account of sex.
	To make the first and second steps, no
change in the Constitution is needed, but
only a majority of the Senate and House of
Representatives with the assent of the Gov-
ernor.
	To change the Constitution requires the 
action of two successive Legislatures, rati-
fied afterwards by a majority of the quali-
fied voters.
	So much for what we ask; now why do
we ask it?

[Column 3]

	1st. Because the fundamental principle
of American Government affirms, that all
mankind are endowed by nature with cer-
tain inalienable rights of life, liberty and
the pursuit of happiness, and to secure
these rights governments are instituted,
deriving their just powers from the consent
of the governed. Every one will admit
that a woman has the same right to life,
liberty and the pursuit of happiness as a 
man; that to secure these rights govern-
ment exists; that she is governed; why
then should she be forbidden to consent or
dissent like other citizens? What is Suf-
frage? The authoritative expression of an
opinion. What is its essence? Rational
choice. Are rational choice and its ex-
pression a masculine function? Are they
a feminine function? No; they are a human
function. We ask that women may vote,
for the same reason that they vote already
as stockholders in a railroad company or in
a manufacturing corporation. They are
equal stockholders, as citizens, in the great
political corporation called Government,
and it is unjust to deprive them of their
equal expression, since they are equally in-
terested in its safety and prosperity.
	But the principles of our State Constitu-
tion affirm Woman's right to Suffrage.
	All power resides in the people and is de-
rived from them." Women are people.
	"The people...have a right to institute
government and to reform, alter or change
the same." They can do so only by voting.
	Again, we ask Suffrage for women, be-
cause they are different from men. There
are no two classes of human beings in so-
ciety so different from each other as the 
larger classes known as men and women.
Each class has special qualities more highly
developed than the other. I need hardly
stop to enumerate them. The qualities
which specially characterize women are the
very ones in which our government is de-
ficient. Women excel men in gentleness,
temperance, chastity, economy, and respect
for law. They are and always will be the 
wives and mothers of men. Woman Suf-
frage therefore means the representation of 
the Home; the domestic interests directly
expressed by women, just as the business
interests are directly expressed by men.
Instead of an aristocracy of sex, which is 
class legislation, we want human nature
manifested in a truly representative gov-
ernment of men and women.—"Woman's
Journal."
	Most substantial and positive reasous
were brought to bear in this meeting by
both men and women. Mrs. Lucy Stone's
speech was pathetic in parts, and rich with
the pathos of womanly feeling. Miss Ann
C. Garlin's speech was short but contained
some forcible arguments strongly present-
ed. Mr. Garrison dwelt very much upon
reform and what urgent measures it requir-
ed, etc. Mrs. E. H. Webster, George T.
Stevens and Miss Lorenza Haynes were the
other speakers and received great applause
from the audience. They presented such
claims and backed them with such conclu-
sive evidences, illustrations and facts, that
in reading them over one feels that they
ought to convince the most bitter opponents
of Woman's Suffrage.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]

R. S. REPORTS.

	The General Retrenchment Meeting in
the Fourteenth Ward Assembly Rooms on
Saturday Feb. 2, 1878, was largely attended
Mrs. M. I. Horne presiding.  Mrs.M.I.Horne
spoke upon the coming election, the privi-
liges of the ballot, and the necessity of nat-
uralization. She spoke upon sericulture
and reminded the sisters that the Presi-
dents of Relief Societies and of Mutual Im-
provement Associations were sustained as
local presidents of the silk-culture in their
respective districts. She urged upon them
the necessity of setting out mulberry trees
in the season, and not postpone planting
them out in time. President Horne sug-
gested the sisters should speak upon the
subject which had been presented before
the meeting. Counselor E. R. Snow ex-
pressed herself as coinciding with the views
of Sister Horne, and exhorted the sisters
to the spirit of union, and repeated the
words of Jesus "If ye are not one ye are
not mine." Sister Snow remarked the two
subjects Mrs. Horne had spoken upon were
closely connected, one was for the establish-
ing of the kingdom of God and one for sus-
taining us in it. President Young gave to
the sisters the mission of raising silk, and
said if they would take hold of it they
would succeed. There are some settlements
in which mulberry trees will not grow—yet
those sisters in that vicinity are not excused
from this mission. Those who cannot labor
with their handscan exercise faith and pray.
Mrs. Mary A. Clark of Farmington, made
some remarks upon the Relief Society in that
settlement. Counselor Bathsheba W. Smith
alluded to the expense attending the peti-
tions and called upon the sisters to donate
towards defraying the same. The sisters
were extremely liberal in giving and suffi-
cient money was donated to pay for paper
and express charges. Mrs. Rachel R.
Grant spoke upon the coming election, and
the spirit of union, that it was just as neces-
sary in this as in other things, that unless
we were one, we were not the people of
God. Counselor Phebe Woodruff said she
would as soon think of neglecting her pray-
ers as neglecting to go to the polls. Joseph
Smith said keep in the channel of the
priesthood and you are sure to be right.
Mrs. E. A. M. Watmough spoke of her
thankfulness to have the privilege of the
ballot, said she never neglected her duty in
that matter. Mrs. E. S. Barney said she
could testify to living up to her privilege in
this respect, as she had in the straw manu-
facture; she had worn a home-made straw
hat ever since they had been manufactured
here.
	Pres. Joseph Young spoke of the great
field open for self-action from the remarks
of the sisters here. Said there was much
to be done but our Heavenly Father was
more reasonable than we were and would
not blame us for what we could not accom-
plish. If we could fully understand each
other and the motives which actuate us, we
should be more charitable than we are.
This congregation I believe are one in spirit
and feeling, but it is the practical points in
which we differ and these are harder to as-
similate; he gave his views upon retrench-
ment and made some remarks upon home-
industries and upon the preservation of
health. Miss Snow then informed the sis-
ters that they could obtain mulberry-trees
of all sizes from President Young's farm, by
applying to Mr. Rossiter at the President's
office, and that silk-worm eggs could be
bought of Mrs. Dora Robinson of Farming-
ton, or of Paul A. Schettler in this city.

[Column 2]

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Knowing the sisters are interested in
each other's welfare, I submit the following
report. Wednesday, Feb. 6, Sister E. R.
Snow and your humble servant left this
city to visit the sisters at Fort Herriman
and West Jordan.
	Bro. Robert Danzie met us at Draper and
conveyed us to Bishop Crane's at the Fort;
we enjoyed a pleasant visit with the Bishop
and his family; after dinner we were con-
ducted to the school-house by Sister Alice
Crane, President of the Relief Society,
where we met with the sisters, and were
also honored with the presence of the Bish-
op and all the brethren of the settlement
both old and young; we had an excellent
meeting and at the close another meeting
was called by the vote of the people for
half-past six. We visited sister Mumford
and were again invited to return to the
school-house, where we found tables bounti
fully spread with the good things of the
earth, and we sat down with two hundred
brethren and sisters; during supper we
were regaled by soul-stirring strains from
the Martial Band of Herriman, composed of
nineteen members ranging from twenty-
five years old down to little boys, one being
only nine; they have been organized only
a short time, but have made rapid progress
in their musical studies, as well as their
martial bearing. The settlement is beauti-
fully located and numbers two hundred
and fifteen persons, including all ages.
They all seemed happy enjoying the spirit
of their religion, and alive to its require-
ments; we had a good meeting in the even-
ing and all felt thankful for the good in-
struction received from Sister Snow.
	Thursday morning, 7th, Bro. Danzie took
us to West Jordan, we met with the sisters
and a few brethren at 2 o'clock p. m. when
Sister Snow addressed the sisters, and or-
ganized the Young Ladies M. I. A., with
the following named officers: Miss Adella
Gardner, President; Misses Mirinda Bate-
man; Rachel Hill; Mary A. Cooper, Polly
Egbert, Ellen Jensen, Adeline Williams,
Counselors; Miss Elizabeth Cutter, Secre-
tary; Miss Rebecca Gardner, Assistant Sec-
retary; Miss Elizabeth Cooper, Treasurer;
and forty members. I never remember
seeing so many fine, noble and good looking
young ladies in one settlement together be-
fore, if their works correspond with their
looks, we shall have some brilliant reports
from them, ere long. After meeting we
were entertained by Sister Agnes Cooper,
where we had a pleasant visit with many of
our sisters, and next morning we took
train for home and arrived in safety.
	ELIZABETH DAVIS.

	LEVAN, Dec. I1th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT.
	Thinking a few lines from the Young
Ladies' Improvement Association of Levan
would not be uninteresting to your readers,
we venture a brief report of our Society.
	We were organized, under the direction
of President George Teasdale, on the 3rd of
November, 1877, with the following offi-
cers.
	Miss Cenie Peterson, President.
	Mrs. Olive E. Wilbeck,
	Sarah Francis,			Counselors.
	Miss Sarah D. Pierce, Secretary.
	"	Eliza Smith, Assistant Secretary.
	"	Martha E. Morgan, Treasurer.
	We meet once a week; our Society num-
bers thirty members, who take a great in-
terest in trying to improve their minds.
	We met Dec. 10, at Pres't. Teasdale's, and
he and other brethren were present and

[Column 3]

gave us some very good counsel and in-
struction. A good spirit prevailed through-
out the meeting.
	Hoping that God will bless our Society
and labors, and the labors of all who are
working for the advancement of truth and
righteousness upon the earth, we subscribe
ourselves,
	Your sisters in the covenant of peace.
		GENIE PETERSON, President,
		SARAH D. PIERCE, Secretary.

	SPANISH FORK, Dec. 13th, 1877.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
The Young Men's Mutual Improvement
Association and the Young Ladies' Re-
trenchment Association held the anniver-
sary of their monthly conjoint meeting in
the meeting house, Nov. 29, 1877. There
was a very large attendance of both sexes,
and an excellent spirit prevailed through-
out the meeting.
	The opening address, by Bro. George H.
Brimhall, was replete with good counsel,
and was followed by speeches, recitations,
songs, &c., according to programme, all of
which were rendered in a manner that in-
dicates marked progress in mental and
moral culture. The closing remarks were
made by Mrs. Mary Jane Morrison: she
said she desired to be guided by the Spirit
of God at all times. Exhorted all to study
good books, keep good company, and serve
the Lord.
	The name of the Y. L. R. A. was changed
to Y. L. M. I. A. by a unanimous vote.
	A vote of thanks was tendered the Com-
mittee of Arrangements.
	Althogether it was a feast of good things.
Many among us are awaking to the bless-
ings to be derived from these societies, and
are desirous to show our gratitude to our
Heavenly Father, for inspiring our leaders
to organize the youth of our Territory.
	Wishing you, dear Editor, and the nu-
merous readers of the EXPONENT the com-
pliments of the season, I remain your sister
in the Gospel,
	HANNAH CORNABY, Cor. Sec'y.

	CLARKSTON, CACHE CO., Feb. 8, 1878.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	We held our Annual Meeting on Monday,
the 4th inst. The report of the last year's
doings was read, which showed we had
paid $133 to help build a new Meeting
House, $27 paid in shares to Logan Woolen
Factory, and $19 to the Logan Temple, be-
sides assisting the poor and needy. Means
on hand:—Cash $3,100 lbs of flour, $45 in
Woolen Factory, $89 in Co-op Store and $12
in sheep, 44 bushels of wheat. We have
not been able to get much wheat, as our
crops were mostly destroyed by grasshop-
pers, but we hope to save some this year,
as the grasshoppers all left without deposit-
ing their eggs, and I think we have a fair
prospect to raise a good crop.
	Our Annual Meeting was well attended by
the sisters, and some of the brethren hon-
ored us with their presence; we received
some valuable instructions from our worthy
Bishop and some of the other brethren,
also by our much esteemed President, Mary
Griffin; others of the sisters spoke as well.
We had a good meeting and the Spirit of
God was with us. In the evening we had
a dance and picnic, and all present seemed
to enjoy themselves. There are about forty
members in our Society.
	Desiring the welfare of the great work
in which we are engaged, we remain your
sisters in the Gospel,
	MARY GRIFFIN, President,
	JANE GODFREY, Secretary.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
A DREAM OF HOME.

Oh mother! last night I was with you,
	And many glad stories I told;
It was Summer, and sunset, the valley
	All curtained in crimson and gold.

We were down on the farm and the breezes
	Came sweet from the meadow and creek;
I heard their soft sighs and responsive,
	My heart throbs were happy and quick.

I swept and cleaned house with my sisters—
	They were there with us, mother, all three—
And we sang while we worked all together,
	As happy as happy could be.

I sported and laughed with my brothers,
	And frightened the fish in the spring,
And waltzed round the room with babies;
	The gladdest and merriest thing.

Through the barn-yard I scouted and scrambled
	And rollicked the hill-tops about,
Like a young colt, which, stabled all Winter,
	Has been for the Summer "turned out."

Half wearied at last, I was sitting,
	In soft, dusky twilight alone:
Save one—my beloved one—was near me,
	And spoke in his kind, wooing tone.

I awoke, and grim Winter's stiff daylight,
	The window had coldly o'erspread;
I suppose 'twas the evenings's light prattle
	That brought it all into my head.

But say, when the Springtime is over,
	And Summer has certainly come,
May I live for a brief little season,
	Again with my mother at home?

When the city grows dusty and snltry,
	May I lay care and labors all by,
And come to the farm for a respite,
	And spend happy June and July?

		LULA.
S. L. City, Feb.1874.	Lula G. Richards


<wioii:)in.r.y han2t4n="" t.="" king,="" i="" :="" l..h="" 'heft="" ,fv="" .="" —----="" )!.="">[Column 1]
	[For the EXPONENT.
WOMEN OF THE SCRIPTURES.

BY HANNAH T. KING.

	The womon of the Old Scriptures are ad-
mirable specimens of the Genus; there ap-
pears no vanity, no frivolity, no weakness;
all is simple dignity, stern duty, and strict
obedience to principle. In the short space
allowed in a small paper, it is impossible to 
elaborate the subject; I will, then, briefly
enumerate some of the principal women;
and at some future time, perhaps, take up
the rest.
	Eve, the sovereign mother of all living!
She stands in close proximity to God the
Father, for she is the life-giving spirit of 
the innumerable hosts that have figured
upon this earth. The one grand, stupend-
ous act of her life is all that is told of her
in the Bible, and it is enough. Milton
draws her picture with the pen of inspira-
tion:
		"Grace was in all her steps, Heaven in her eye;
		In every gesture dignity and love!"
	Sarah, the wife of Abraham, one highly
favored of the Lord, is distinguished by
her truth and faithfulness in all the travels
and changes of their lives. At the time
that the Lord promised her great and sin-
gular blessings, He changed the orthogra-
phy of her name, adding the letter h as the 
finale; and placing it in the centre of the
name of Abram, making it Abraham! Of
course He had a purpose in this, though it
is not explained; h is said to be a cabalistic
letter, and if so it denoted increased power
and blessings.
	Hagar is also a remarkable character; her
position and peculiar trials, and her entire
dependence upon God under them, ejacu-
lating, in the fulness of her heart, "Thou
God seest me," called down to her relief in
the desert an angel of God! Her history
is full of thrilling pathos, and calls out our
richest sympathy.

[Column 2]

	The description of Rebecca is very sweet
and womanly, and as a young girl she ex-
hibits a degree of understanding and de-
cision rarely found in mature characters.
She decided at once, after hearing the mis-
sion of the servant of Abraham, who had
been sent to find a wife for his son Isaac,
to accompany him back to his master
Abraham, and she became the wife of Isaac,
and appears to have been an instrument in
the hands of God in bringing about His
purposes with regard to Abraham's poster-
ity, and is ever named as a devoted wife
and mother.
	Rachel next appears; her character is
sweet and gentle, She is the beloved of
Jacob, who served seven years for her—
and they seemed but so many days, for the
love he had for her. Joseph and Benjamin
were her sons, and were an honor to her
and a blessing to their family; Joseph's
history is grand and romantic, and through
much tribulation he became the Savior of
his father's house, and a type of the future
that was then in the distance.
	Miriam, the prophet sister of Moses and
Aaron, was a very remarkable character;
her destiny appears to be interwoven in
that of her august brother. When Moses,
as an infant, was hidden, by his mother,
in the bulrushes of the river Nile, to pre-
serve his life from the cruel mandate of
Pharaoh, who had commanded the male
children to be destroyed. Miriam was
placed by her mother to watch the infant.
Soon the daughter of the King came down
to the river with her maidens to bathe and
seeing the child she was astonished and
delighted with his beauty, as he smiled
upon her in his sweet innocence. Miriam
then approached and the princess told her
to go and get a nurse for him, as she meant
to bring him up as her own son. The de-
lighted girl ran for his mother, and she was
taken within the palace to nurse adn attend
him. Again, Miriam appears in his after
life, when he had been called of God to be-
come the leader and the law-giver of Is-
rael; we find her walking foot to foot, hand
to hand with the servant of God; she ap-
pears in all the grand epochs of that event-
ful pilgrimage of forty years' travel through
the wilderness; and on one occasion was
called conjointly with her brothers, Moses
and Aaron, by the voice of God! At one
time she erred in her judgement of Moses,
and her punishment was severe; but by
the prayer of Moses she was healed. On
all triumphant occasions it appears that she
took her harp and led the songs of Zion;
and her glorious song of triumph, after the
passage of the Red Sea, is thrilling and in-
spiring, even at this remote date; all de-
note her a noble woman, a priestess and a
prophetess of God.
	The next prominent feminine character is
Deborah; she judged Israel forty years,
and she "dwelt under a palm tree," and
"the children of Israel came up to her for
 judgement." Barak seems to have full
faith in her prophetic office, and received
the word of the Lord through her lips; but
yet declared that unless she would accom-
pany the army of Israel, he would not go
up; and she answered him, "I will surely
go with thee;" and he went up with ten
thousand men, and Deborah went with
him;" and the armies of Israel prevailed
and were mighty conquerors. Then fol-
lows the sublime song of Deborah; she is
an inspired improvisatrice, and is the leader
in that song—for the Scripture saith, "then
sang Deborah and Barak." Her character
stands out in bold relief, mighty and irre-
proachable!
	The history of Esther the Queen is a
beautiful illustration of the devotion of wo-

[Column 3]

man! Her purity, her filial love for Mor-
decai—who had reared her, she being an
orphan—and her obedience to his counsel,
and reliance upon his judgement in the
critical circumstances in which they and
their people were placed at that time, are
all beautifully portrayed in the sacred
pages. In this day of liberty, of freedom
of speech and action, we can hardly judge
of the dangerous situation in which she
was placed. The king, Ahasuerus, was an
absolute monarch; his word was the law,
and he had decreed that no one should ap-
proach him, man or woman, for thirty days!
—death was to be the penalty to any who
presumed to disobey this mandate, unless
the king held out the golden sceptre, as the
emblem of peace. There had been a con-
spiracy raised against Mordecai and his peo-
ple, the Jews, and before the thirty days
they would all have been destroyed. Hence
Mordecai sent to entreat Esther to seek an
audience with the king, and lay before him
the critical circumstances in which they
were placed. She fasts and prays, and then
she goes forward, with her life in her hand,
saying, "If I perish, I perish!" The king
held out to her the golden sceptre, heard
her story, and her people were saved!


TO MOTHERS.

	How often do we hear mothers complain
of the tax on strength and patience their
children are. I confess to have felt and
spoken similarly myself often, but the
thought soon gave way to another idea—
what well-spring of comfort they are, and
how dark the world would be without their
presence. I believe they in their innocence
are a great incentive to a holy life. The
little ones when yet without sin cause the
mother's heart to yearn for purity. She
cannot look into the sweet eyes and indulge
in anger or malice. Then when baby days
are over and the little ones can trot after
the mother using their sharp eyes and ears,
does it not make her careful that nothing
she may say or do, may stain the little one's
heart, who has not yet learned right from
wrong, to whom mother's doings are
perfect. How many lessons do we learn
from these little ones.
	A mother's lessons of faith taught through
her children is often more powerful than
all the world can do. In darkness or dan-
ger the little ones cling the closer to the
mother, fearing nothing because mother is
there, often this prompts her to prayer ask-
ing earnestly "Lord give me the faith in
Thee that these little ones have in me. If
we could but have the teachable spirit that
children have, how obedient we would be.
When the heart aches it would save us
many pangs, if the presence of the spirit
of God were enough for us as the mother is
for her children, we would indeed be at
peace. God is very gracious to us, and
when duties press hard upon us, He gives
us more strength and courage to endure if
we rely upon Him. It is surely a blessing
to be helped in our efforts to overcome evil
by our child's influence. If we are spared
to train up our children in the way they
should go, what a blessing we realize
through their refining and purifying influ-
ence. There is danger of the mother mak-
ing the child an idol, but this is of course
through wrong discipline; the mother
should preserve her character as tutor and
disciplinarian of the infant mind, yet hum-
ble herself as a child relying upon God,
that we and our children may gain an ex-
altation in His kingdom.
	ANN TATE.
Tooele City, Sept. 25, 1877.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

THE WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

EMMELINE B. WELLS,	Editor.

	Published semi-monthly, in Salt Lake City, Utah.
Terms: One copy one year, $2.00;  one copy six months,
1.00. Ten copies for the price of nine. Advertising
rates: Each square, ten lines of nonparell space, one
time, $2.00; per month, $3.00. A liberal discount to
regular advertisers.
	Exponent Office, corner of South Temple, and First
East streets, opposite Eagle Gate. Business hours from 10
a.m. to 5 p.m. every day except Sunday.
	Address all business communications to
		Publisher WOMAN'S EXPONENT,
			Salt Lake City, Utah.

SALT LAKE CITY, MARCH. 1, 1878


[Column 1]

SPECIAL LIFE-MISSIONS

	Sometime recently in the writings of an
eminently popular and learned man; we read,
"The greatest nuisance in society, at the pres-
ent time, is a woman who thinks she has a
special mission." The writer elaborated the
subject, and gave it all the benefit of his man-
nish style of ridicule and witticism, "These
women," said he, "force themselves into all
sorts of places, and speak and harangue upon
all sorts of unwomanly topics." In short, he
inferred that the TONE of society was being de-
stroyed by "THESE WOMEN," who were contin-
ually asking for constitutional rights (as they
termed them), and crying out for reform.
	So every woman, every mother, every sister,
"whose soul is pained with wrong and out-
rage with which earth is filled," who feels in
her inmost heart that she is fitted to labor for
some noble object, by the inspiration of high
and holy impulses, to put her hand to the wheel
that is propelling society and humanity down-
wards, and assist in arresting the tendency to
destruction of life and health, must brave the
odium of public opinion, and incur the risk of
losing caste with modern society. It requires
the urgent demands of a special mission to in-
duce women who shrink from all that is coarse,
low, and corrupt, to stem the the current of
tradition and long continued custom, and
stand fearlessly for the rights of legal protec-
tion, for the wrongs and indignities perpetrated
upon the unfortunate and unsophisticated,
left without the means of redress, and plunged
lower and lower in the sloughs of iniquity.
It is of little use to enumerate the catalogue of
crimes in which men are the chief actors and
women the real sufferers, but suffice it to say,
there is a mission for some women at the pres-
ent time, arousing them to take a decided
stand for the liberty which will break the
shackles of custom, and lead them into a
broader field of usefulness.
	When men complain of special missions for
women, let them refer to the historical records
of all ages, and see whether there have not
been, in every eventful time, women with
special missions. And in many instances
these missions have been actually given from
God. Men seem afraid to trust woman to mark
out her own course of action, yet will acknow-
ledge that woman's suggestions are general-
ly wise in any emergency where the de-
mand for intuition is almost imperative. If
woman has so much wisdom to counsel others,
if her advice is judicious and her influence
salutary, then why may she not be capable of
acting out her own nature, expressing her own
views, instead of doing so by proxy through

[Column 2]

her husband, her brother, or some friend? A
good instance of this proxy work came under
our observation when only a little girl, in the
wife of our village pastor.
	We can but deplore the condition of things
that gives woman so little scope, so narrow a
compass, and accords to man all the space for
his powers, and all the honors which the wife
has helped him to attain.
	From all such abject slavery woman will
yet be emancipated. It is this longing for
freedom that is inspiring some women of all
the various conditions in life, to make war
against the bondage with which they have
been enslaved, and seek, by every available
means, to inspire a universal feeling among
men and women for equal rights and privi-
leges in the sphere God has assigned them. In
this age, rife with improvements, and new dis-
coveries and inventions, it cannot be expected
that woman will stand still, making no pro-
gress. Woman is sensitively alive to the impe-
tus of the grand movements that are distinct-
ive features of the Nineteenth Century. Her
place is beside man in all that tends to better
the condition of mankind.
	Social life is considered to take its tone
mostly from women; then if such is the case
there is need of woman's advancement. The
object of woman's suffrage is not to destroy
men's influence for good, but to make it doubly
strong by woman's co-operation and efficient
help. There are yet plenty of women silly
enough to drink in all the praise and flatttery
of men, and find only too late, that it was all
"words, words, empty words." Recently, "A
very eminent man of letters;" (says a writer
in the Quarterly Review) frankly avowed that
his beau ideal of a mistress, or a wife, was a
pretty woman who would sit on a footstool at
his feet, look up fondly into his face and listen
with rapt attention, and only interrupt him to
whisper, that he was the handsomest and
cleverest man on earth." When men of such
opinions are the leaders of society, what can
be expected of the future mothers of the race?
	These women with missions, so dispicable in
the eyes of the masses, are not the ones who
squander money, or dissipate their powers in
the frivolities of fashionable life. It is not
their highest aim to please man, but to lift
manhood and womanhood to a higher and
purer atmosphere. They do not waste their
mornings in novels, and their afternoons in
calls upon the fashionable ladies of society.
They work industriously and energetically at
home and abroad, and though they may not
now be appreciated, like bread cast upon the
waters that will return after many days, so
will their labors be. The struggle for a wider,
higher and broader sphere is sure to result in
good, though the dark cloud is not yet lifted,
still it grows thinner and the faint dawn of the
morning which shall usher in the era of wo-
man's emancipation is becoming perceptible
to the quick eye of the observer.
	E. B. Wells


[Column 1]

HOME AFFAIRS.

	THE "AMATEUR," Feb. 20, published in Og-
den City, has been received, and is a very
good number. We are glad to note the inter-
est now apparent in the Mutual Improvement
Associations, but there is still need of more
extended work in this field of labor, now open
as an avenue for elevation, mental and spirit-
ual, to the young of both sexes.
	WE HAVE received recently several letters
from ladies in the East who are among the ac-

[Column 2]

tive workers in reform, and they express them-
selves as much interested in the women of
Utah. They are anxious to become more ac-
quainted with them and the work they are do-
ing here. We publish in this issue in our edito-
rial columns, some of the sentiments of the la-
dies of the National Woman's Suffrage Asso-
ciation. We give space also to a Memorial to
Congress, which we consider a sermon in it-
self to all persons, young and old. We hope
it will be carefully perused by our patrons, and 
will open the eyes of some, who, having lived
all their lifetime in seclusion, are unsophisti-
cated in the ways of the world at large.
	REPORTS OF R. S. and Y. L. M. I. A. re-
ceived and laid over for future use are as fol-
lows: Eighth Ward, S. L. City; North Jordan
Ward, S. L. Co.; Kingston Plute Co.; VirginCity,
Kane Co.; Manti and Mt. Pleasant, Sanpete
Co. We have also an article entitled "Im-
provement," by Kate, and some poetry and
other items. We mention this, lest our con-
tributors might think we had not received
them. We would be glad to receive more ar-
ticles from the pens of our sisters, on any of
the various subjects which demand attention
and promote improvement, and a broader and
clearer range of thought; then we would be
able to make selections, and thereby elevate
our paper to a higher standard of literary ex-
cellence.
	WE HAD intended to publish, in this number,
some of the speeches made before the commit-
tee in Congress on the Woman Question, but
our paper is small, and we are obliged to keep
up with reports from women's organizations in
the various districts and settlements; but we
will note one or two items here, which have a 
special interest for us. The communications
from Washington tell us that Mr. Cannon, the
Delegate from Utah, was in the midst of a very
able argument against the passage of THE BILL,
when Mrs. Sara J. A. Spencer and Isabella
Beecher Hooker entered the Committee Room.
Mr. Cannon immediately gave way to Mrs.
Spencer, who took up the argument just as
Mr. Cannon was merging from the legal to the 
moral point of view, as relates to polygamy.
She suggested that the bill be made to apply
to both Mormon and Gentile, and wondered
how many men in the United States would be
qualified to cast the ballot, if faithfulness to
the marriage vow was made the standard.
	OUR EXCHANGES of last month have been
full of interest on the woman subject, as the
recent discussions in Congress, the Convention
in Washington, and the meeting in Boston all
have had considerable space devoted to a de-
scription of the work and the workers. "Wo-
man's Words contained many items of inter-
est, and a sketch and wood cut of Mrs. Sara J.
Andrews Spencer, with which we were well
pleased, and intend to re-publish the brief no-
tice of this eminent woman. Mrs. Mary A.
Reynolds, of this city, has a letter in the Feb-
ruary No. of this paper, in which she has spok-
en for the women of Utah in a praiseworthy
manner. Such testimonies of appreciation of
the franchise must certainly be productive of
good abroad. With the "Woman's Journal"
of Feb. 16, we received a supplement, giving in
full the argument of William I. Bowditch, styled
"Tax-Payer's Hearing." It gives many histo-
rical facts, and is an ably written article in de-
fense of "Taxation without Representation."
	THE TWENTY-THIRD session of the Utah
Legislature closed its assembly on Saturday
morning, Feb. 23d, the Friday evening session


commencing at seven o'clock, and continuing
up to that time. There has been a great deal
of business dispatched during this term. Some
excellent bills have been passed, among which
are the revenue and election bills. Several
bills have been introduced that have passed
both Houses, and been vetoed, or remained
without the Governor's signature. Probably
His Excellency, Governor Emery, has done as
well as any man could have done, under the
combination of peculiar circumstances. One
bill, which was designed to make women eligi-
ble to certain offices, such as Superintendents
of schools, &c., the Governor refused to sign,
after it had passed both Houses. We do not
wish to judge in this matter, but we cannot
understand why, in a Territory where women
have had the suffrage eight years, and have
proved themselves capable of maintaining the
ballot without becoming extremists, they may
not be allowed office such as they are qualified
to fill. It seems to us it would have been an
act of nobility in Gov. Emery to put his sig-
nature to that bill, and he would certainly
have won laurels for himself by so doing, in
our humble estimation. As an example of
woman's curiosity, we would like to find out
why he didn't sign that bill?


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[For the EXPONENT.
IM MEMORIAM.

	We have to record the demise of another no-
ble daughter of Zion, Josephine de la Harpe
Ursenbach, who departed this life Feb. 23d, at
her residence 16th Ward, Salt Lake City. She
was a native of Switzerland, and of a very an-
cient family some of the male members of
which hear an honorable name in the history
of their country; General de la Harpe served
under Napoleon I; her father was the Seigneur
de la Harpe, a man of wealth and position.
She was reared in affluence, and received a
liberal education. Early in life she married a
Russian gentlemen, Monsieur Luedert, in the
Court of St. Petersburg, and she moved in the
highest ranks of that country. In a few years
she was left a widow, with three children—her
two daughters are now residing in high life at
St. Petersburg; her son, Joseph, is at this time
in New York. She embraced the Gospel in
her native land, and shortly after emigrated to 
Utah, bringing her young son with her. She
crossed the plains in "the Hand-cart company,"
and suffered much—drawing her hand-cart all
through that long and trying journey. She
has ever been a faithful Latter-day Saint, has
borne her testimony to many of the nobles of 
the earth, among them Victor Hugo, who an-
swered her letter under his own hand, giving
her credit for being a sincere and noble wo-
man. She has lived and died in obscurity, lit-
tle known or appreciated, but she has made
her calling and election sure; and her name
will yet be held in honorable remembrance in
the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter day
Saints.
	"Res quiescat in Pace!"
		H. T. K.
	Died, in Salt Lake City, Jan. 9, 1878, Mrs.
Sarah Ann Burbage Long. Dceased was born
June 26, 1817, at Maidstone, County of Kent,
England. She was the daughter of Thomas
and Mary Ann Mason Burbage, and was a la[-]y
of superior education, cultivation and attain-
ments, and of pleasing and attractive manners.
She was well known in this city as an artist of
considerable merit. Her sufferings, during a
protracted illness, were very great, but she
bore all with saintly patience and fortitude.
She was a faithful Latter-day Saint. Mrs.﻿

[Column 2]

Burbage Long might well be considered a wo-
man of strong character; she had exalted ideas
of woman, and being a thorough scholar and
well versed in history, could converse intelli-
gently upon any subject, yet shrank from pub-
lic notoriety. During the earlier years after
the settlement of this city she did much
towards the cultivation of music and painting
among our young people. Her life has been a
very useful one, and her name is held in hon-
orable remembrance for good works. [Millen-
nial Star please copy.]
	In the City of Ogden, Feb. 7, 1878, at five
o'clock, of heart disease, Sarah Baker, beloved
wife of James Dudman. She was born May
27, 1812, in Devigis, Wiltshire, England; was
baptized July 11, 1844, by Elder Thomas Smith,
in the city of Bath, England. Emigrated 23
years ago to Utah; most of the time she resid-
ed in Salt Lake City. For many years she
practised as an accoucher, with very good suc-
cess. She was much respected by all who were
acquainted with her. It can be said of our
dear sister, She rests in peace, and her works
will follow her. She was a good wife, affec-
tionate mother, and a faithful Saint.
	M. W.


DEATH OF AN ENGLISH CLERGY-
MAN.

	Died, in Salt Lake City, Nov. 16, 1877, Rev.
George R. Hewlings. Deceased was born in
London, England, in July, 1807. His father
was a member of the British Parliament, and
educated him for the law, but he preferring
the ministry, his father acceded to his wishes.
He graduated at Cambridge in 1832, and was
ordained to the Christian ministry in the In-
dependent Church. He subsequently had
charge of a church in Lincolnshire eight years,
after which he removed to Worcester, where
he had a very large church eight years. His
health became impaired, from constant labor
in his profession, and he concluded to resign
and come to America. He preached in Massa-
chusetts, Illinois and other States. He also
delivered many lectures on moral, historical
and religious themes. He was strictly con-
scientious and upright, honest in his convic
tions, and candid in expressing his seuti-
ments. His whole life had been remarkable
for piety and strict adherence to pastoral and
domestic duties.
	Rev. George R Hewlings came to this city
in the spring of 1872, on a visit to his wife's
relatives. He was a stranger to this people,
their views and condition, but was delight-
ed with the climate, and had remained tem-
porarily up to the time of his death, thinking
each year he would return again to his native
land, where he had a beloved daughter and
son and ther families, to all of whom he was
fondly attached. He has also a son settled in
New Zealand. He was a man of superior at-
tainments in education, and a firm friend to
those who were worthy, of whatever faith or
creed. He had a strong admiration for men
who acted from principle, and despised a trai-
tor, or a hypocrite. We speak from knowledge
of this good man (our brother by marriage),
knowing his many excellent qualities of head
and heart. He took great pleasure in reading
the Exponent, and often sent it to England
to ladies of his acquaintance, that they might
judge of Mormon women by their writings.
He believed in the higher education of women,
and was warmly interested in all literary pur-
suits. We can say of him truly, that although
not espousing the doctrines of the Church of
Latter day Saints, he was a strong advocate


for the social, political and religious rights of
this people; he believed in their sincerity, and
when ill unto death felt the efficacy of the
prayer of Mormon Elders.
	It is pleasant to know that there are some
noble, candid, honorable men of the world,
who can live and die among the Mormons and
not allow themselves to become prejudiced, or
biased, by partisanism. This is a praiseworthy
tribute in itself to the memory of any man—
proving his strong sense of justice, and abun-
dant charity; and no greater gift can any man
have than charity for his fellow-men.


TO LOVERS OF PURITY EVERY-
WHERE.

	"Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of
thistles?"
	"Can an evil tree bring forth good fruit, or a
corrupt fountain send forth pure waters?"
	The continual increase in the number of
criminals, lunatics, and helpless, wretched human
beings, from all classes of society; the increas-
ing tendency to sensuality as evinced by the
dress and literature of the times, and the fre-
quent cases of seduction, suicide, abortion, in-
fanticide, jealousy and murder; the debilitated,
diseased, wrecked condition of married women,
and the increasing mortality of infants—all of
these accumulated horrors unite to demand of
us, as American women, a thorough investiga-
tion of the causes of these fearful disorders,
and a fearless application of whatever reme-
dies lie within our reach.
	We therefore submit the following proposi-
tions, held to be true by many noble, philan-
thropic minds, and ask for them the candid
dispassionate consideration of all lovers of hu-
manity:
	1. That according to Divine order, every hu-
man person should experience a conscious de-
light in living, and in performing the uses of
life; but that the race, by a long course of self-
ish, sensual, devitalizing indulgence, has lost
zest in, and relish for, the daily blessings and
uses of a pure life.
	2. That the act by which a human soul is
called into existence is a creative act, designed
by the Infinite Creator to people earth and
heaven with pure, happy human beings, each
soul to be the sublimated essence of the best
qualities and happiest conditions of its parents;
and that the earthly agents of our Heavenly
Father have no right to degrade this high and
holy use to low and selfish purposes.
	3. That through ignorance and selfishness
the human family have perverted this exalted
office to merely sensual indulgence, resulting
in a diseased, abnormal condition, which phy-
sicians and the world in general call "normal
appetite," "natural propensity," physical nec-
cessity," and, more deplorably still, resulting
in a constant and frightful I increase of vicious
depraved, and diseased human beings, doomed
to infamy and suffering by the sins of their
parents before they were born, according to
the inexorable law, "the fathers have eaten
sour grapes, and the children's teeth shall
grind."
	4. That thus, through the degradation of a
holy sacrament, the earth is filled with vio-
lence and crime, and the regions of despair
with lost human souls.
	5. That men themselves need all the vital
force which is not demanded for parentage to
enable them to perform the mighty material,
intellectual and moral labors to which, as sons
of the Most High, they are called; and that by
wasting their powers in enervating indulgence
they sacrifice vigor, health, happiness, and the


most glorious possibilities of manhood, here
and hereafter.
	6. That the present condition of the human
race imperatively demands the active exercise
of the refining, elevating, spiritualizing power
of pure womanhood, to eradicate moral poison,
restore spiritual and physical health, and thus
to lead humanity to a higher plane of thought
and feeling, and to richer fountains of peren-
nial joy.
	11. That while the mother's body is the tem-
ple of a possible angel, sacred duty to her un-
born child should take precedence of all other
duties.
	12. That suffering herself to be degraded,
while in that holy state, for merely sensual
purposes, is a crime against the human race, a
sin against her own soul and against the Holy
Spirit.
	We appeal to all lovers of Purity, Peace, and
Order to aid us by counsel, suggestion, or co-
operation, in our work of social purification
and reform.
	Published by Sara Andrews Spencer in 1871.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


CORRESPONDENCE.

EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I send you a contribution from the pen
of a young friend of mine, who has been
called early from a circle of loving relatives
and acquaintances.
	MISS Agatha Allula Perry, was born in
Provo, Feb. 28, 1863, and died Nov. 1877,
of typhoid fever. She was a Normal stu-
dent in the B. Y. Academy, and took great
pride in fitting herself for a teacher, being
respected by all from the principal to the
pupils. She was also first counselor in the
Mutual Improvement Association of the
First Ward. Endowed with mind and
manners calculated to win the esteem of
those with whom she associated, with in-
dulgent parents and every prospect of hap-
piness in long life, she was called, at the
early age of fourteen years and eight
months, to join the holy angels in the beau-
tiful land of peace and love, while her sor-
rowing friends can only say "Why is it?"
God knows best. Before her last illness she
wrote the following piece, which so pleased
her teacher that she expressed a desire of
sending it to the Exponent, and I take
pleasure in complying with her wish.
	Provo.	M. J. Tanner.


AN ESSAY ON THE LAYING ON OF
HANDS.

	After we are baptized, through the ad-
ministration of the laying on of hands we
receive our confirmation into the Church,
and the gift of the Holy Ghost also, which
is given to cheer, comfort and enlighten
the mind, strengthen the memory, and lead
unto all truth, that men and women may
become perfect. Among the many mani-
festations of the Holy Ghost are faith, heal-
ing, and miraculous powers. After we
have received this blessing, in order to re-
tain it we should be very humble and
prayerful, and strive to keep all the com-
mandments of the Lord, observe all His
precepts, and live by every word that pro-
ceeds from His mouth, and by so doing we
will have faith in our Creator. If any are
sick among us we send for the Elders, and
they anoint the sick with oil, and adminis-
ter to them in the name of the Lord, and
by faith in God the hand of the destroyer
is stayed, and they are healed, if not ap-
pointed unto death; for this blessing and
privilege we should feel very grateful.


The Apostle James says, "The prayer of
faith shall heal the sick, and the Lord our
God shall raise them up, and if they have
committed any sins they shall be forgiven
them." And through this miraculous
power of God displayed in the healing of
the sick, evil spirits have been cast out,
the blind made to see and the lame to walk;
through the goodness and power of God,
many other manifestations have been real-
ized. The knowledge of this power comes
from our Heavenly Father, and is not kept
under a bushel, but is gratuitously extend-
ed to every nation, kindred tongue and
people; it is the power of God unto salva-
tion, whereby we may gain an inheritance
hereafter: even an exaltation in the king-
dom of Heaven.
	Also, through the laying on of hands we
receive our Patriarchal blessings. By this
ordinance children are blessed, thus having
a name in the Church; also by this ordi-
nance the priesthood was conferred upon
every officer in the Church, from the Pro-
phet Josoph Smith to the deacon. The
Holy Priesthood was given direct from
heaven, and no man can hold it except he
be ordained by one who holds it.
		AGATHA A. PERRY.
	[For the Theological Class, B. Y. Acade-
my, Provo City, Utah, Sept. 8, 1877.


[Column 1]
			For the EXPONENT.
		DUTY OF PARENTS.

	This is a subject I have reflected much
upon, and I feel that I would like to give
some of my views in regard to it. Not that
my ideas will be anything new, but we
sometimes need reminding and awakening
to our duties and obligations. Realizing as
I do the importance of the day in which we
live, and knowing that Satan is at work
among the saints and trying to sew the
seeds of infidelity in the hearts of our
children, is what prompts me to write and
see if we cannot by our united efforts ward
off the impending evil. I have noticed for
years back the rising generation, and asked
myself the question; are they coming up
to the standard of what the children of the
Latter-day Saints should be? Some of them
are all that we could wish, while others are
reckless and regardless of the good advice
of parents and are evidently on their way
to ruin unless they repent. O, that I had
the language and the voice of an angel to
reach the hearts of all such, and cause them
to stop and reflect ere it is too late. The
Sunday Schools and Improvement Associa-
tions for young people of both sexes are do-
ing much I think to bring this about; but
let us Latter-day Saints go back a little and
see if we have done our duty as parents.
And if we who have raised large families
can see wherein we have failed to take the
right course, those who are just starting out
in life may profit by our experience and do
better. God's first commandment to Adam
and Eve was to "multiply and replenish
the earth;" the same words are repeated to
our young people when they kneel at the
holy altar and are united in the order of
Celestial Marriage. They are not told to
gather to themselves riches, but to multiply,
and keep the commandments of God and
they shall be blessed with eternal lives.
How little attention is paid to the true
meaning of the words; should not their aim
be to try and bring forth good spirits into
the world, for what will add more to their
glory than good and noble children provid-
ing they grow up in the truth. The saints
are anxious for posterity but do they realize
when children are born unto them that it

[Column 2]
depends much upon their lives and exam-
ple whether they become the children of
our God, or children of the Evil One. The
question might arise, why is it that some
of the children born in plural marriage are
opposed to the principles of that sacred mar-
riage covenant? We know that Polygamy
as it is called, is the bugbear of the so call-
ed enlightened world. Many persons say
if it was not for that principle we might
join your Church. Satan knows his power,
for he not only stirs up the hearts of the
children of the world, but is also cunningly
at work with those born in that covenant,
for he knows if he can poison their minds
against Celestial Marriage, he has gained
one grand point.
	Then let us awake to the danger. Some
may ask how can it be prevented? I can-
not say, but think something might be
done by commencing at the root of the evil.
The evil may commence even before we
are aware, perhaps impressions are made
upon the mother while bearing her child-
ren; a woman's nature when undergoing
the pain and suffering incident to becoming
a mother in many cases is almost entirely
changed. She is more susceptible of joy
or sorrow, the least unkind word will bring
tears when at other times it would not be
noticed. Often sick in body, and wearied
with household duties, is more dependant
upon her husband, needs his help with the
children, if she already has little ones, needs
sympathy and kind words to help her bear
her burden. It is said that woman has the
power to mold the mind of her child, and
that children born of good mothers will
prove to be good sons and daughters. Now
if this is the case would they not be still
better if they have good fathers for they
are often like him in disposition. Few per-
sons realize that what is mostly before the
mother during the period of maternity,
will make the strongest impression upon
her offspring. Then should not the father
be very careful, and let his actions be such
that he might be proud for his child to pat-
tern after him. Most fathers throw too
much respsonsibility upon the mothers in
regard to training their children, not but
that many a woman is capable of doing so
alone, but it is not the surest way; to have
a well ordered family in my humble opin-
ion takes both parents unitedly.
	I remember it was my father who used
to sit with us in the evenings (when my
mother was busy perhaps mending or mak-
ing little clothes) and try to get us interest-
ed in our studies, and help us with our hard
lessons; and at times would tell us of God,
and draw our young minds towards Him.
Happy childhood memories. I would that
every child could say of their parents as I
can say of mine, that I could see no fault
in them, nor ever heard a cross word pass
between them. But I am digressing from
my subject. Another course of evil is I
think, a neglect of prayers in families, or if
it is attended to it is done in such a man-
ner as not to interest or benefit the child-
ren.
	In the first place we should get the spirit
of prayer, for without the spirit of prayer
we can never enter into the Celestial King-
dom. Then if this is so necessary why not
pray so that our children can understand.
Perhaps have the prayer shorter and more
to the point, so they need not get weary;
call on them to take a part while young,
and they will grow up with this spirit, and
when the husband is absent, the wife
should take that place and never let prayer
be neglected, or in any way leave any gaps
for the evil one to creep in.
	Sometimes husbands cannot attend to all


the little duties which would otherwise be-
long to them, as their time is taken up
with public business. Then let us as moth-
ers do our part nobly and well, and not let
our children get too old before we teach
them the principles of the Gospel; for if we
do we cannot by redoubled diligence make
up for lost time. Another thing, mothers
should be very careful how they talk be-
fore their children, especially in bringing
up the faults of the father; it is too often
the case that he is spoken of with disre-
spect, (especially does this transpire in very
large families, where there are many in-
fluences and dispositions,) and by a few
words from the mother, the child may be-
gin to distrust the father and think he is
not the man he should be; this feeling
strengthens until he is ready to disbelieve
in the principles the father has espoused.
Much might be said upon this subject, but
this may be sufficient. My experience has
taught me that it is easier for us to think
what we can do than it is to do it.
	Over twenty years ago when Brother Jed-
ediah M. Grant was so zealous in trying to
bring about a reformation with the people,
I was quite young, (my second child was
then a babe,) I seemed to enter into the
spirit of what he said, and felt thankful
that I lived in this day, and that I was in
my youth, and resolved in my own mind
that I would try to bring up my children
right. Since then I have been the mother
of a large family, and although I have no
great cause to complain, yet have found
that I could not come up to my standard of
excellence, controlled as I was, more or less
by circumstances, having poverty and sick-
ness to contend with, and all their train of
consequences. But we can be found trying
to do our duty, and then leave the rest to
Him Who sees and knows all things.
	When we go to school we know that in
order to have a finished education we must
learn every letter well, and every small
word must be committed to memory; so in
entering the school of the Gospel, we must
learn the little lessons as they come, so we
may be ready for greater ones. Obey coun-
sel, keep the commandments, so that in
time we may become graduates in heaven,
and take seats in the Celestial Kingdom
with our Father, which is the prayer of
your sister.
	NAOMI.


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
MEMORIAL OF THE BOARD OF TRUS-
	TEES OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUM-
	BIA GIRLS' REFORM SCHOOL, AND
	OF OFFICERS AND CITIZENS OF
	WASHINGTON.

	To the Senate and House of Representatives
	of the United States in Congress assembled:
	WHEREAS, it is well known to your Hon.
orable Body that, except the workhouse
and the common jail, there is no provision
in the Capital of the United States for the
shelter of young, ruined, deserted girls,
who are driven to desperation to the fearful
crime of abortion and child-murder, nor for
helpless infants who are therefore subjected
to violent death, or to death by exposure
on our streets, nor for the training and re-
formation of girls who have become vicious
and abandoned, and are peopling the coun-
try with criminals; and,
	Whereas existing laws in this District are
so framed and executed as to protect men
in the highest crimes against the souls and
bodies of women and of poor, ignorant and
misguided girls, men of all ages and sta-
tions being permitted to seduce, or liberal-

[Column 2]
<l>y reward procuresses for securing for them,
new victims at every convenient opportu-
nity, and being allowed to abandon the
mothers and disown the children born out
of wedlock, while all the legal penalties fall
only upon the wretched mothers; and,
	Whereas, all criminal legislation to be
permanently effective, should tend toward
reform and remedy, toward the abolition of
arbitrary, cruel and barbarous distinctions
against the weak and in favor of the strong,
toward justice to women and kindness to
children, toward securing to the State a
multitude of trained, intelligent and useful
citizens instead of an ignorant and vicious
generation of outcasts and criminals, and
should provide as liberally for the direct
and immediate consequences of vice, as it
provides ways and means to fall into temp-
tation and sin; and,
	Whereas, the District Legislature in 1873,
in response to a petition from our best citi-
zens, granted a charter for the establish-
ment of a Girl's Reform School, and made
an appropriation for the purchase of land,
provided Congress would order the con[-]
struction of buildings, which appropriation
for land was lost through the failure of the
Forty-third Congress to pass the bill for the
construction of buildings reported favora-
bly by the Committe on Public Buildings
and Grounds; and,
	Whereas, the long delay in making pro-
vision for these classes of persons has led to
terrible suffering among young women, and
to fearful slaughter of infant life; and,
	Whereas, it has appeared in debate that
there is a general kindly feeling in the
House of Representatives toward the estab-
lishment of a suitable institution for these
classes, and that negligence in passing the
bill has not arisen from ignorance of the
need, nor from indifference, but from the
fact that the persons to be provided for are
women, and not your constituents, while
you believe it to be your first and constant
duty to pass such measures as your constit-
uents imperatively demand; and,
	Whereas, although we cannot declare
that your constituents imperatively demand
this measure, we do declare that your con-
stituents, the men of the United States, are
largely responsible for the moral and social
atmosphere and condition of the capital of
the nation, and may more appropriately be
taxed for the protection and care of these
wretched women, and for the education and
training of their unfortunate children than
fot their arrest and punishment as crimi-
nals; and,
	Whereas, the citizens of this District
support fifteen benevolent institutions
which do not depend upon Congress for aid,
although receiving inmates from every
part of the United States and from every
quarter of the globe, while Congress en-
tirely supports but three, and partially sup-
ports but four benevolent institutions, all of
which are national in their character; and,
	Whereas, the care of the persons de-
scribed in this Memorial, has fallen for
years mainly on a few women, who are
wholly unable to bear the expenses, or to
save the sufferers from exposure or subse-
quent degradation:
	Therefore, we pray your Honorable Body
to immediately take from the calendar H.
R. Bill No. 3765, add thereto the appropri-
ations named therein as limits to the cost
for land and for buildings for a Shelter for
the Sick, an Infant's Home, and a Reform
School for Girls, and enact the same in such
manner that it may be speedily effective;
and we further pray,
	That you will appropriate a sum to be im-
mediately available for the shelter and

[Column 3]
care of urgent cases of young women about
to become mothers in temporary quarters
until suitable buildings can be constructed.
		BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
Sara J. Spencer, President; E. D. E. N.
Southworth, Vice President; Ellen H.
Sheldon, Corresponding Socretary; Susan
A. Edson, M. D., Recording Secretary;
Mrs. Le Droict Langdon, Treasurer; A. G.
Riddle, Solicitor. John F. Cook, Auditor.
		CITIZENS.

	I wish that this bill might be passed, and
the sooner the better.
	HENRY H. WELLS, District Atty.
	There is most pressing necessity for this
Institution. Common humanity demands
it.
				J. H. THOMPSON,
	Surgeon in Chief Columbia Lying-in
Hospital.


HYGIENIC NOTES.

	New Remedy for Wakefulness.—When the
mind is active, reasons Dr. John L. Cook, of Ken-
tucky, the brain is correspondingly active; we
breathe more frequently, and the movements of the
heart are more rapid and vigorous. On the other
hand, when the mind is at rest, as in healthy
sleep, the circulation in the brain is notably di-
minished, the heart-beats are less rapid and forci-
ble, and the breathing is perceptibly slower. In
the wakeful state the mind, as a rule, is intensely
occupied, whence we may infer an increased
amount of blood in the brain. Dr. Cook's sug-
gestion is to withdraw a portion of this from the
head, or lower the brain circulation, by taking
deep and slow inspirations—say twelve or fifteen
a minute. By this means the action of the heart,
pulses and brain is reduced, and very soon a quiet
feeling, ending in sleep, follows. The system
slows up like a railroad train when the locomotive
throws off steam. The imitation of sleep pro-
duces the reality. Probably, also, the effort of
changing the respiration diverts the mind, thus
promoting the desired end, as when one falls
asleep often against his will in listentng to con.
tinuous reading or public speaking. A remedy so
simple and natural, having none of the objections
of drugs, will commend itself to many sufferers
who will test its value by actual experiment.
	Night Dresses for Children.—A mother writing
in the 'Household' says that she made her little
one's night dresses of cotton flannel, with legs to
them, so that if he got uncovered he should not
take cold. Observing that he lost flesh and grew
cold towards morning, she called in a physician.
She continues—"He said that cotton flannel was
not the material for children, for when it gets wet
it clings to them and is cold as ice. He also de-
nounced the idea of making legs to the dresses;
said that the limbs should not be separated, but
should come together. His directions were to
make a night dress of flannel long enough to lie
on the floor half a yard, just like a big bag, run
a string in the bottom of this, and when the
child goes to bed tie it up. In this way the leg[-]
cannot get out, and there is perfect freedom of
motion. We did so at once, and it worked like a
charm. No more lying awake at nights and won-
dering what the trouble is. The little fellow
sleeps, soundly, and wakes in the morning refreshed
and with a good appetite."


FIRST school-girl (sweet eighteen) "I am
so tired of walking along by twos and twos
in this way! It's as bad as animals going
into the ark! Second ditto (ditto ditto)—
"Worse. Half of them were masculine!"


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


STUDENTS' DIET.

	A correspondent of the "Tribune" N. W.
says: "The use of stimulants by students is
a growing evil. I have known young ladies
who felt weak to drink strong tea between
meals to brace them up. I know a young
lady who is in the habit of taking quinine
just before going to recitation, because it
makes her feel brighter. And I have known
instances of the opium habit being formed
by students." Students and all others
should know that there is no substitute for
wholesome, nutritious food. The stomach
may seem to bear imposition with impunity,
but its final resentments are terrible. If
you are told by one of these transgressors
that these things do not hurt him, tell him
we are all born but not buried, and that you
will want to know his opinion on the sub-
ject ten years hence,—provided he shall not
have gone where there is no work nor de-
vice. The simple yet rigidly immutable
laws of health are not set aside to accommo-
date Thomas, Richard or Henry, as Tom,
Dick and Harry will find too late when Na-
ture arraigns them for their violations.
Seest thou a student wise in his own con-
ceit y working on stimulants? There is
more hope of a fool than of him. For a
time he may run like the fox in the fable,
but in the end the intellectual tortoise will
undo him, and so the fable holds good as an
illustration. Soda biscuit is an article that
should be eschewed by all students, also
greasy food, fried meats, rich pastries; fruit
and the cereals, with milk, eggs, fresh meat,
oysters and fish, will make them strong to
study, strong to succeed, strong to enjoy."


MISCELLANEOUS.

	MRS. Chisholm of Kemper County (Miss.)
massacre memory has taken a $900 clerk-
ship in the treasury Department at Wash-
ington, D. C.
	TESTIMONY OF GOVERNOR T[-]AYER:—
"The following is an extract from the Mes-
sage of Governor Thayer, of Wyoming.
'Woman Suffrage has now been in practical
operation in our Territory for six years, and
has, during the time, increased in popular-
ity and in the confidence of the people. In
my judgment, its results have been bene-
ficial, and its influence favorable to the best
interests of the community. A right or
privilege, once granted, is not easily sur-
rendered. In this case it is difficult to per-
ceive any good reason why it should be."
	Cheyenne, Nov. 2, 1875.—Ex.


[Column 1]
	NOTICE.

	All who may wish to purchase silk-worm
eggs can obtain them from Mrs. Dora Robinson
of Farmington.  It would be well for those
who intend to purchase to secure what quanti-
ty they may need, and if desirable they could
leave them in Mrs. Robinson's care till it was
time to make use of them.  Mulberry trees of 
all sizes can be obtained from President
Young's farm, just south of the city, by apply-
ing to Wm. Rossiter, at the President's Office.
The [-]rees are from five to forty cents apiece,
according to size.

GENEALOGICAL!
LATTER-DAY SAINTS who come from the States of 
New England, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania
or Delaware, or whose ancestors were native[-] of either
of those States, who desire to obtain their Genealogies,
could no do better than to employ B. F. Cummings, Jr.,
who proposes to go east for that purpose during the 
present Winter.  Parties interested should send for Cir-
[--]lar, giving terms and full instructions.
	Address,
	B. F. CUMMINGS, JR.,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

[Column 2]
FRENCH HAIR STORE.

	Ladies are requested to call and examine the most
complete assortment of Curls, Braids, Switches, Etc.
at Reduced Prices.
	All kinds of Hair Work made up in the most Artistic
style.  Cash paid for Human Hair and Combings.
	JOSEPHINR GREGORY,
	Salt Lake City.	97 Kimball Block.

The Lamb Knitting Machine Agency.
[printed drawing of knitting machine]
	Knitting Factory for first class home-made Socks and
Stockings of all kinds, call at the Factory on First South
Street, a few doors west of Jennings' corner.  Orders
from the country at wholesale or retail, filled promptly.
	GEO. A. LUKE & Co.,
	Proprietors.

NEW FALL STOCK.

F. AUERBACH & BROTHER,
55 EAST TEMPLE STREET, SALT LAKE CITY.
Five hundred pieces of Dress Goods, Embroideries, Ruch-
ings, Five Hundred pairs Kid Gloves, Trimmings, Ladies'
Ties, Cuf and Collars, 100 Cartoons of Ribbons.
	Largest Wholesale Millinery Stock in the West.  Notions,
Boots and Shoes, Gents' and Boys' Clothing and Furnishing
Goods.  Etc., Etc.

THE LADIES
Are invited to call and inspect the stock of 
Home Manufactured Goods
IN THE 
OLD CONSTITUTION BUILDING,
	Where they can find all kinds of Woolen Goods, Linseys,
Yarns, Blankets, Shawls, Hosiery, Waterproofs and 
Fancy Articles of all descr ptions.
	MINNIE HORNE, CLERK.

ROWE'S
CELEBRATED
HOME-MADE BOOTS AND SHOES,
Big Boot, Main Street.
NO CHEAP SHODDY GOODS KEPT.

HOLIDAYS!
Thanksgiving, Christmas and New Years
CAN BE SUPPLIED WITH
CURRANTS AND RAISINS
READY CLEANED, WITH FULL
Choice Stock of Groceries,
AT
TEASDEL'S.

THE LAMB KNITTING FACTORY,
FOR ALL KINDS OF 
Home-Made Socks and Stockings.
CALL AND SEE FOR YOURSELF, ON
SECOND SOUTH STREET,
Opposite the [--]th Ward Meat Market.
MRS. H. E. STRICKLAND.

Mrs. ROMANIA B. PRATT,
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON,
OFFICE AND RESIDENCE in 12th Ward on
2d South St., between 5th and 6th East Sts.,
six blocks East of Post Office.

[Column 3]
Z. C. M. I.
Wholesale and Retail Dealing
in all kinds of 
DRY GOODS, NOTIONS, GROCERIES,
HEAVY AND SHELF HARDWARE,
GLASS AND QUEENSWARE,
STUDEBAKER WAGONS,
AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMNETS, &c.

DAVID JAMES,
(Successor to Mitchell & Jawes,)
Tinner, Gas, Water & Steam Fitter
AGENT FOR
RUMSEY'S CELEBRATED LIFT AND FORCE PUMPS.
Pumps Repaired on short notice.
Orders from the country promptly responped to.
Address, David James, Box 306, Salt Lake City.

THE FINE ARTS.
	The Ladies of Utah are invited to visit our New Art
Gallery, the finest in the West.
	We will show them specimens of our first premium por-
trait and Landscape Photographs in all branches includ-
ing enlargements from small pictures, any size or style,
the coloring in water colors, ink or oil, is by G. M. Ottin-
ger, which is a sufficient guarantee of excellence.  Our
prices are pnt at living rates.
	We spare no pains to produce satisfactory work, and 
are determined to excel in all we do.
	A full assortment of Day and Sunday School Prizes
kept in stock.  Frames, Chromos and Pictures of all kinds
on hand.
	Send your orders to        C. R. SAVAGE,
	Salt Lake City, Utah.

PIANOS & ORGANS,
Of the Very Best manufacture, and warranted
for five years, on
INSTALMENTS
OF ONE, TWO OR
THREE YEARS,
	Payments can be made monthly, quarterly or six
monthly.  Prices low and no interest charged.  Send to
us for catalogue and further information.
	CALDER & CARELESS.

Mrs. C. E. DYE,
	Invites all Ladies visiting Conference, also Ladies of 
Salt Lake City, to call at her Palace of Fashion, No. 17,
East Temple Street, and examine her New Stock of Milli-
nery Goods, in all its branches, from the most exquisite
Parisian styles to the cheapest American products.
In connection with the above, Ladies' Ha[--] Work in
all its branches.  Good work guaranteed.

NOTICE TO THE LADIES.

THE BEST AND CHEAPEST STORE TO BUY YOUR
DRY GOODS,
IS AT
SCHWARTZ' STORE,
Opposite the Herald Office.  Remember all.

H. DINWOODEY
WHOLESALE AND RETAIL DEALER IN
FURNITURE
SPRING BEDS, WIRE MATTRESSES,
Feathers Wall Paper
AND 
BABY CARRIAGES.
75, 77 & 79 First South St., Salt Lake C


WOMAN'S EXPONENT.

