			SAMPETE STAKE.
	Relief Society Conference held Dec. 10th,
1887, in the meeting house at Mt. Pleasant.
Opened with singing. Prayer by Bro. Reynolds.
Continued with singing.
	Prest. M. A. Hyde opened the meeting and
addressed the congregation assembled. Felt
very much impressed about the departure of
our beloved sister and co-worker, E. R. Snow
Smith; said we have no reason to mourn her
loss, her works and her intelligence will follow
her, and will also live after her here. Spoke
about the prophecies being fulfilled; Joseph
Smith had spoken of these days. Said the first
duty of the Relief Society was to look after
the sick and poor, as we had been taught by
our departed “Sister Eliza;” she always had a
love for the sisters of Sanpete, and placed them
in excellence and diligence next to the sisters
of Box Elder Stake. “We are often called to
mourn about the evils that happen among us.
Referred to a circumstance that happened in
our county. Urged the parents to look well
after their children, and above all things, as

[Column Two]

actions speak louder than words, show to them
a good example.
	Her Counselor, Sarah Peterson, from Eph-
raim, felt glad and thankful that she was
united in the same faith, and had come here
with the same feeling, to be instructed. "We
live in a day when we must draw nearer to our
God. I thought, when Sister Hyde spoke
about the teaching of our children, that we
must teach them to be honest and true; often
little school-children will bring articles home
that they claim to have found, but parents
should be particular to have them return such
things; by so doing we can form in them a
habit of truthfulness; but we must ourselves
show a good example to our children.” Gave
a good report from the Ephraim Wards; said
the sick and the poor were well looked after.
	Sister M. P. Madsen felt much edified in the
instructions given; we should treasure it up
aud put it into every day practice. Spoke
about the privilege of going to the Temple, and
made other good remarks.
	Sister E. B. Wells, of Salt lake City, had
come from Moroni the same morning. Said
she felt greatly disappointed, as she had hoped
to have Sister Zina Young and Sister Minerva
Snow with her, but circumstances were such
that she had to come without them. Sister
Young and Sister Snow sent their love to the
sisters of Sanpete. Said she met with the
sisters of Moroni the day before, and also with
the Primary; noticed a great improvement in
the children in their exercises. Sister Wells
told us as much as she could of Sister Eliza’s
sickness and death. Said how beautiful she
was in her coffin; looked more like a bride than
one dead; referred to the interesting remarks
made at her funeral; thought she had never at-
tended a funeral where there was so much good 
said of a person, but not too much good could
he said of Sister Eliza. Spoke of the Hospital;
thought it should be sustained, as if was an
institution for the benefit of the afflicted.
	Sister Pritchet, of Fairview, reported her
ward; said the sisters were willing to respond to
every call.	
	Sister Acord, of Spring City, represented
her ward; said a portion of the sisters are al-
ways on hand, but another portion were sloth-
ful and neglectful. “We must try to the best
of our ability to live nearer unto the Lord,
that we may earn the crown that is in store for
the faithful.”
	Bishop Irons, of Moroni, found a great help
in the Relief Society. Said, "Mothers, set a
good example before your children, and the
Lord will take note of it. The sisters are doing
well;" he never had called upon the Society but
they had responded to the call.
	Prest. Peterson said he liked to meet with the
sisters. “We live in an important time; the
angel Moroni spoke about these days; the
prophecies are going to be fulfilled.” He re-
ferred to the 33rd chapter of Isaiah speaking
about this time. Was thankful that we could
worship a God with body, parts and passions, a
God which the Christian world know not of
and do not believe in.
	Prest Hyde made closing remarks, and con-
ference adjourned until the second Saturday in
March. Singing, “O, my Father" etc. Bene-
diction by Bishop Lund.
			Y. L. M. I. A.
	(Minutes of the quarterly conference of the
Y. L. M. I. A. of Sanpete Stake, held at Mt.
Pleasant, Dec. 10, 1887, Miss Helen Armstrong
presiding.)
	(Miss Olive Lowrey) represented the Associa-
tion of Manti as being in a good condition; said
some were very diligent, and were doing their
utmost to forward the work, while others were
negligent. “Youth is the time for study, and
we will be held responsible by the great Judge
for the way the time allotted to us is spent, and


also for the cultivation of our talents. We
should all seek for a testimony, for we all have
an equal privilege to know of the truth of this
work.”
	The Y. L. of Mt. Pleasant South Ward was
represented by the President, Ella Wheelock,
who said they were doing very well; the meet-
ings were well attended, and each one seemed
willing to help the other along.
	Miss Lowrey was requested by Prest. Peter-
sen to relate some of her experience, which she
did, as follows: "During the past year I was
very ill, and beside being sick physically, I also
felt much depressed in spirits. One night as
I was lying upon my bed a beautiful light ap-
peared to me; I thought it might be a reflection,
but looking around the room I soon ascertained
that it was not. It was so clear and bright 
that it is beyond comparison to anything on
earth, and it brought with it such a divine in-
fluence and made me feel so happy, that I
thought I could never more feel sad; but after 
it left me the sad hours would come again.
While I felt pretty well I did not have this
visitation, but when I had another attack it
would again return and cheer me. One night
my mother was sleeping with me, and that
night the Elders had administered to me, and
as a general thing after their administration I 
could sleep, but not so on this particular even-
ing. My mother asked me why I was not
sleeping? I told her I could see that beautiful
light again, and asked her if she could not see
it; she said she could, and while we were talk-
ing about it, it moved into another corner of 
the room. My father was called in, and he
also saw the light. Christmas night my sister
was in my room, and as she was going to bed
at about eleven o’clock, she exclaimed, “Oh,
what a beautiful light above you!” I looked 
up and saw it, and I resolved to ask it as I
would a person if I should ever have my health
restored to me. I did so, and it disappeared.
I still felt uncertain, and I asked it to return
in all its brightness if I should ever be like my
former self again. It reappeared, and came
down so close that it almost rested upon me,
and a feeling like an electric shock passed
through my body. I am here to-day, and I
bear testimony to you, my brethren and sisters,
that I know there is a God who hears and an-
swers our prayers, and whose power was mani-
fested to me in this wonderful manner."
	Clara Kofford, of Mt. Pleasant North Ward,
said the young ladies there were much interested;
hoped they would keep on improving.
	Prest. M. A. Hyde bore her testimony to the
truth of what Miss Lowrey had said. “The
great privileges we enjoy are not appreciated
by all. Why are instances like the one just
related more rare than they were when the
Church was in its infancy? Is it because we
have less faith? The adversary has great power
on this earth, and we will all, no doubt, be
thrown into society where we must possess a
portion of the Holy Spirit if we resist the evil
influences that are brought to bear against us.”
Invoked the blessings of God upon us. She
then spoke with the gift of tongues, which was
interpreted by Sister Wells.)	*	*	*
	Miss Willardsen hoped the young ladies
would be alive to their duties, and always strive
to improve.
	Coun. Sarah Petersen said we should remem-
ber the Creator in the days of our youth.
Spoke of the Relief Society of Ephraim as in
a good condition, and exhorted the young
ladies to faithfulness and diligence.
	Prest. M. F. C. Morrison made a few interest-
ing remarks; said mothers should instil into the 
minds of their children the principles of truth.
	Sister E. B. Wells said, “We have many 
manifestations of the goodness of Providence.
We are blessed above all our expectations.
Sometimes we complain of poverty, but we do
not know what poverty is compared with what

[Column Two]

the Saints passed through during the persecu-
tions and mobbings of other days.” Spoke of
seeing some of the convicts at the penitentiary
in their prison garb. Gave an interesting ac-
count of her travels in the East, and her inter-
view with the Poet Whittier. “It takes a great 
deal of humility to embrace the Gospel” Re-
lated an incident to illustrate the same.
	Prest. Canute Petersen was very thankful
for the testimonies borne; hoped they would be
of encouragement to others, and that all would
be united and go on improving.
	Conference was adjourned to meet at Spring
City the second Saturday in March, 1888.
Closed with singing the Doxology, and a bene-
diction.
		A. LOUISE HASLER, Cor. Sec. pro tem.


