	OUR HOLIDAYS IN CANADA.

	No matter where the Saints are—in the sunny
South or snowy North—you may depend on their
being as cheerful and happy as their circumstances
will permit.  
	Such being the case with us, I feel a desire for
the loved kindred and friends at home to know—
as at this season of the year our hearts turn with 
greater fondness to "our very own"—how their
absent, but not forgotten friends in Canada spent
their holidays.
	Christmas Eve found us—all but two sweet
mamas and their very new little Canadians—
gathered at the residence of President Card.  In 
the kitchen were our fifty children, big and little;
the front room was reserved for their parents, and
the centre room was devoted to a large Christmas
Tree and our old-time friend, Santa Claus, who
was fat, jolly, and saucy as ever.  
	The tree bore fruit of a "home made" nature, as
trees ought, and from its well laden boughs was
seen some little token of remembrance for all, for 
Santa had engaged the willing and nimble fingers
of our Relief Society and Young Ladies' Associa-
tions to assist him,as his cash was low, though
his will was good,for his trip from Utah had
nearly exhausted his exchequer for this year, but 
knowing how happily surprised our children 
would be with his attentions in our new home, he
set merrily to work.  
	Hush! don't you hear a horn?  Suddenly the
doors fly open; all is silent.  A short prayer of 
praise and thankfulness, and the children march
in, gazing on the brilliant tree, and their much
talked of, but seldom seen, "Santa Claus."  Little
Joseph, with his arms around his brother,s neck,
says, "I almost scart," but his fears vanish when
he receives his little home made wagon, and soon 
they are all supplied—balls, dolls, work-bags
tidies, etc., etc., are distributed, with sweetmeats
in little tastie lace stockings, mittens and socks, 
till such a munching, laughing, joking crowd as
our darlings present is enough to make the hearts
of the parents glad, and old Santa sweat, which
he did long before the tree was divested of its
fruit.  But at last the pleasant task is ended, the 
tree put to one side, the room cleared, and our 
young folks dance; the little ones play games and 
frolic in the kitchen, while their elders repair to 
the sitting room, and pass a delightful evening, 
singing, reciting, chatting, and talking over the 
goodness of God to us while strangers in a strange
land.  No round dancing amongst the young, no 
rudeness amongst the children, no disunion
amongst the parents, and thus ends the first never-
to-be-forgotten Christmas Eve in Canada, which
all declare to have been most enjoyable.  
	Sunday finds us gathered in Sunday School and
meeting, after which families meet in their own 
snug homes and partake of the bounties of the


earth, such as prarie chickens, plum pudding, etc.,
etc. In our nest are gathered the brethren who
have no families here; they help us demolish the
fine turkey sent us from MacLeod by Capt. Allen,
the Custom House Inspector.
	New Year's day was given to the service of the
Lord, and some of us invited in a few friends after
meeting, and enjoyed ourselves in quiet chat till
evening meeting.
	On the 7th our Young Men’s and Young Ladies’
Associations gave an excellent entertainment,
Bro. G. L. Farrell having charge of the music.
Sister Zina of the recitations, dialogues, etc., and
Bro. G. L. Robinson general manager. A num-
ber of our friendly neighbors were invited, and
one and all were enthusiastic in their praise of
our humble efforts to entertain them.
	I will conclude by telling you of our happy dis-
appointment over our winter, which has been very
mild, so far, only a few cold days at a time, and
snow only five or six inches deep. The health of
our colony is excellent, and all rejoice in freedom
and peace, and the everlasting Gospel.
									RENO.


