A LECTURE DELIVERED BY PRESIDENT J.
	M. HOWELL, IN THE RELIEF SOCIETY
	MEETING, HELD AT CLIFTON, JUNE,
	1887.
	
	Our bodies are made in harmony with certain
laws, and every person should learn them, in
order to regulate his or her actions and duties,
so that health may be preserved, and the powers
of enjoyment and usefulness continue while life
lasts.
	First. It is a law of the bones and muscles
that they should either be used in some kind of
labor, or called into action by social play or
healthful sport. 
	Second. All admit that food is necessary to 
sustain life; and unless it be of a proper kind,
taken in proper quantities and at proper times,
the digestive organs will be deranged and pro-
duce disease.
	Third. Pure air is essential to the full en-
joyment of good health. If you breathe impure
air, you may not immediately feel the effects of
it, yet it is a violation of the physical laws, and 
sooner or later you will pay the penalty in dis-
ease and suffering.
	Fourth. The body also requires sleep; and if
it be not taken at the right time, or with rugu-
larity, we do not feel full refreshment. Let
the youth of Zion be taught that "early to bed
and early to rise" gives them health and all its
attendant blessings. The brain, like other 
organs of the body, should be called into ac-
tion at proper times. The office of the skin is
to remove the impure and worn out particles
of matter from the body; it is very important
that it should be bathed often to keep it clean
and the pores open. This is very important in 
the preservation of health. It is seldom neces-
sary to employ a doctor in the common diseases
we have to contend with, especially in the first 
stages. In all instances of disease it is proper
to rest not only the body, but the mind. The 
patient should cease her physical labor, and 
also withdraw her mind from study and business;
this should be done even if the patient is but
slightly ill. The sick room should be roomy
and as little exposed to outside noise as possible,
as noise and confusion greatly excite the 
nervous system. The sick room should be well
ventilated, and have no unnecessary furniture.
Care should be taken in regulating the light of 
the sick room; a strong light will produce an
increased action of the brain, while a moderate
light will stimulate this organ. Sick persons
should not be disturbed by too many visitors.
It is very important in cold, and in fact all dis-
eases, that the skin be kept clean. If the 120
or 130 ounces of waste, hurtful matter that
passes through the pores of the skin in twenty-
four hours, are not removed by frequent bath-
ing and dry rubbing, it deranges the vessels
that separate this waste matter from the blood,
and thus increases the disease of the inside
organs. Every sick person should breathe
pure air; the purer the blood that courses
through the body, the greater the energy of
the system to remove the disease.
	It requires knowledge and practice to
properly nurse the sick. Woman, from her
constitution and habits, is the natural nurse of
the sick, and in this Church no small portion
of her time is spent in ministering at the bed

[Column 2]
of disease and suffering. No girl should con-
sider her education complete who is not ac-
quainted with the principles of the duties of a
nurse or the laws of health. The nurse, before
commencing to bathe the patient, should pro-
vide herself with water, two towels, a sponge, a 
piece of soft flannel and a sheet. Use tepid or
warm water; apply the wet sponge to one part
of the body at a time; by so doing the danger
of taking cold is lessened; take a dry, soft
towel, wipe the bathed part, and follow this by
a vigorous rubbing with a bath towel; then use
briskly a piece of soft flannel, to remove all
moisture that may exist on the skin, and par-
ticularly between the fingers and underneath
the joints. But before using the sponge to 
bathe, a sheet or fold of cloth should be spread
smoothly over the bed and under the patient,
to prevent the bed clothes on which the patient
is from becoming damp or wet. In this manner
the entire body should be bathed an least once
every twenty-four hours. The practice of
daubing the face and hands with a towel
dipped in hot rum, camphor and vinegar does
not remove the impurities, but causes the skin
to soon feel dry, hard and uncomfortable.
	The diet of the sick should be simple, and
should be prepared in a neat and careful man-
ner. In ventilating the sick room great care
should be taken that the patient does not feel
the draught or current. Bed linen, as well as
that of the body, should be aired every day,
and oftener changed in sickness than in health. 
All clothing, when changed, should be well
dried and warmed by a fire previous to its be-
ing put on the patient or bed. The tempera-
ture of the sick room should be moderate; if
the room is kept too warm, the patient will be
weakened, and is more liable to take cold on
leaving the sick room. The movements of the 
nurse should be gentle and noiseless. Shutting
doors violently, creaking hinges, and all un-
necessary noise should be avoided. Whisper-
ing in the sick chamber is more annoying than
a common tone. The remarks of the nurse to
the patient should always be encouraging.
Never speak of the illness of a friend or a re-
cent death in the sick room.
	The nurse should not confine herself to the
sick room too long at a time. She should eat
her food regularly, have sufficient sleep, and
take exercise daily in the open air. There is
but little danger of contracting disease if the 
nurse attends to the simple laws of health, and
remains not more than six hours at a time in
the sick room. Watchers should always eat
supper before entering the sick room. Alcohol, 
whiskey, tea and coffee should never be used
as a stimulant in times of sickness or in
health.
	Now, in connection with our works, faith
should be exercised also; faith in God our 
Heavenly Father, and in His promises, that if
we will keep the word of wisdom we shall be
healthy and strong, and the destroying angel
shall pass by our doors and will not have
power to take our little ones from us. When 
we have need of physicians send for the Elders
who hold a portion of the holy priesthood,
which is the power to act in the ordinances of
the house of God, and exercise faith in the
promises of God, being humble and prayerful
at all times. Never forget to thank God for 
His mercies on such occasions, and give Him
the glory


﻿Miss Susan B. Anthony had a hearing before
the House Judiciary Committee at Washington,
Tuesday, Feb. 8.
	Mary Howitt who has just died at the age of
eighty-four, was a very small woman with a
very sweet sweet face. She translated Fred-
erika Bremer’s works, and wrote many charm-
ing stories for children. She was born a
Quaker and died a Roman Catholic.


