REVERIE.
	I am sitting by the fire alone to-night, and
while gazing into the bright flame and glowing
embers, my mind calls up, one after another,
fond pictures of days that are gone, faces and
forms of beloved ones of the long ago, those
whom I have loved and whose presence blesses
me no more.
	I can see in the misty past myself as a little
child, surrounded by a band of affectionate
brothers and sisters, and the dear parents, whose
loving protection banished every care from my
heart. Oh! the sweet relief, when little troubles
filled my childish soul with woe, to find com-
fort on my dear mother’s lap, to hear the words
Of consolation that fell from her lips. The
troubles of maturer years are not so easily
reconciled.
	How well I remember those happy days in
the old orchard, picking fruit, climbing and
swinging among the trees, and later on, the
pleasant strolls in the'deep grass and fragrant
shade with dear friends of my girlhood, until
each particular spot seems sanctified with
precious memories. Then, too, memory recalls
the playful pranks of hide and seek in the old
rooms, chasing up and down stairs, starting out
of dark corners with mimic fright, and many
other joyous pranks, which the futile mind of
youth produces. What merry voices and gay
laughter used to fill the old home; but those
days passed only too quickly, and separation
from home and friends came only too soon; and
what changes a few short years bring—youth
grown to manhood, and dark and glossy hairs
have turned to grey. The old home is occu-
pied by strangers now, and one by one the
oved ones go to rest, some in ripe old age,
some, alas! in youth and beauty, and others
still in budding childhood, and cares and
sorrow already wrinkle the brow that then
glowed with light heartedness and joy.
	In gazing into the fire my mind is so busy
with the scenes and friends of the past that I
fancy myself among them again. I can hear
the gentle voice of my darling mother in words,
of advice and admonition, and the mingled
tones of merry friends I loved. I turn from
the flame to realize that they are all scattered.
Some are happy, loving parents, while others,
fate has dealt with less kindly, and some, too,
haye wandered from the path of rectitude.
Truly life is a chequered dream, and though
old-time friends have passed away, new ones
are found, little forms and faces take the places
of those who are gone; and the hurrying patter
of little feet, and the sound of childish voices,


require me to live in the present and quit the
past. But I am thankful for the half hour I
have had with my childhood’s home and
friends.	
					AUNT POLLY.
	Salt Lake City, January, 1888.


