AN INTERESTING VISIT.

	On the 17th day of October, 1887, Sister M.
Isabella Horne left this city on a visiting tour to
her friends at a distance, meeting her husband in
Ogden, who joined her in the journey. The same
evening, at 7 p.m., they took the Union Pacific
train for San Francisco, and arrived there after a
pleasant journey of two days. They stopped at
the well-known Russ House, and spent a little
time in sight seeing in that famous Ocean city.
The remained only a few days, however, when
they resumed their journey down into Southern
California to visit Bro. Horne’s Sister, Mrs. Re-
becca Mallory, who resides in Hollister, in San
Benito Co., a very handsome little town. The
view from the railway in traveling from San Fran-
cisco down was very fine, they thought, and it
made the trip very enjoyable; the great profusion
of beautiful flowers, pyramids of them, even, was
to them, as it is to all on their first visit, almost
marvelous. Bro. and Sister Horne visited at
Hollister two weeks; meantime the birthday of
Mrs. Mallory occurred; they enjoyed a very pleas-
ant time with the friends,and acquaintances of the
Mallory family.
	Around and in the counties of San Benito and
Santa Clara are large farming districts; farms
from one hundred to a thousand, and from ten to
twenty thousand acres, these being the old Mexi-
can land grants. These lands are mostly still held
by the Mexicans, and they lease the farms to men
who sub-lease; and the farming population depend
so much upon rain in the fall of the year, and when
that fails there is a failure of crops, that they are
in much the same condition as the Irish peasantry.
One Spanish lady, Sister Horne was creditably in-
formed, owned an immense track of land, which
yielded recently 40,000 bushels of wheat. Two
young Spanish ladies own one of the largest of
these farms, with an elegant house and grounds,
where they visit once or twice a year, and hold
parties, etc. Sister Horne was much interested
in these matters, as she is in industries of all
kinds, agricultural or otherwise, especially those
pertaining to women.
	When leaving Hollister, Bro. and Sister Horne
could not purchase tickets on the Southern Pacific
Railroad at that place, but went on to San Jose, a
short distance away,and took the railway train. Be-
fore reaching Los Angelos on this railway route,
there is a tunnel a mile and a half long through
which the train passes, and as Bro. and Sister
Horne came westward ahead of railroads, this
was a novelty to them. Further on, towards Mari-
copa, in Arizona, the country is very desolate in-
deed. They reached Maricopa station at two
o’clock in the morning, stayed there until daylight,
then took the train for Tempe, where they were
met by their eldest son, Henry, whom they had not
seen for several years. From there they drove to
his farm, a distance of nine miles, arriving at Mesa
his place of residence, on the evening of the 19th
of November. Bro. Horne laughingly remarked
to his daughter-in-law, that Sister Horne ought to
have sent word ahead that the next day would be
her birthday and had the turkeys ready. The
daughter replied that weuld be easily done, and
accordingly arrangements were made, and on the
following day they spent a very agreeable time in
visiting with friends of former days, and many
hearty greetings were interchanged, and pleasant
renewals of old friendships, as well as feasting
upon turkeys and other luxuries.
	Sister Horne met with the Relief Society in
Mesa on Thursday, Dec. first, in a special meeting.
Sister Hakes, the local President, presided. It
was a very full meeting, and an excellent spirit
prevailed. Most of the time was occupied by Sis-


ter Horne in giving instruction to the sisters, in
regard to the duties pertaining to the Relief So-
ciety in all its various departments of work. Sister
Horne was the first of the leading sisters from the
centre Stake of Zion who had visited them, and of 
course they were all anxious to see and hear her.
She also met with the R. S. in their teacher’s
meeting on the 5th of December, and gave them
much good counsel. Sisters Hakes and McDonald
also addressed the meeting in an interesting man-
ner, and all seemed to enjoy the visit of Sister
Horne and to regret her short stay among them.
On Thursday, the 8th of December, Sister Horne
went over to Jonesville, now called Lehi, situated
four miles from Mesa, to attend a meeting called
specially for her to speak to the sisters there.
Sister Lizzie McDonald presided. There were a
goodly number of sisters present, and an excellent
time enjoyed.
	Thursday, the 15th, went with some of the sis
ters from Mesa to meet with the Relief Society at
Alma, two miles distant, and there, as every where
she went, they had an excellent meeting, good at-
tendance and a good spirit.
	While away, and journeying here and there,
Sister Horne sought every opportunity to do good
among the sisters, and in these remote districts
they are greatly in need of information as well as
strength and encouragement. At some of the
meetings Sister Horne attended, two members of
the Presidency of the Stake-Brothers McDonald
and Robson—were present, and expressed them-
selves as much pleased with her visit and instruc-
tions.  
	On Monday, Jan. 2nd, 1888, there was a New
Year’s party at the residence of Elder Henry
Horne, in honor of the visit of the father and
mother, Bro. and Sister Horne of this city, and
the Presidency of the Stake and many others were
invited, and they enjoyed a most delightful evening
in conversation and such entertainment as was
most suited to such a happy occasion.
	On Tuesday afternoon, Jan. 3rd, Bro. and Sister
Horne left Mesa and went over to St. David’s, in
Cochise Co., where they visited two of their grand-
children, who are married and settled at that place.
On Sunday evening following, at 7 o’clock, Sister
Horne met with a special meeting of the Relief
Society, called on her account, the local President,
Sister Maria McRae, presiding. It was a very
large gathering of both brethren and sisters.
	Bro. and Sister Horneunexpectediy met with
many old friends at Mesa City and St. David’s.
From the latter place they drove over to Benson,
where they were to take the train, but being be-
hind time stayed at the Hotel all night, where
Sister Horne held quite an interesting conversa-
tion with some ladies. She told her husband she
didn’t mind waiting for the train, as she had the
chance of talking with these ladies upon our re-
ligion. We will give the interview in Sister
Horne’s own words, as she related it after her re-
turn home.
	“The ladies asked me which way I was travel
ing? I told them we were on our way to Salt Lake
City. One of them inquired if we were of the
Mormon faith? I answered in the affirmative.
That led to some questions, which gave me an op-
portunity of preaching the Gospel to them and
bearing my testimony to the truth. I explained
the first principles of our faith, which are, faith
in God and in His Son Jesus Christ, then repent-
ance for sin, next baptism by immersion for the
remission of sins, then the laying on of hands by
one having authority, for the gift of the
Holy Ghost; quoting Scripture to prove that
we taught the same doctrine that our Savior
and the Apostles taught in their day. I ex-
plained to them the atonement of Christ for
original sin, which took away from us Adam’s
transgression; but that we were account-
able and would have to answer for our own sins
and our works, whether.they were good or evil;

[Column 2]
the Scriptures say every one will be judged and
rewarded or condemned according to the deeds
done in the body. I explained to them the order
of celestial marriage, which they wished to hear
about. I told them it was a pure and holy princi-
ple of our religion, which we knew to be as true
as any other principle of our faith; but that no one
was forced or coerced into obeying; but our re-
ligious convictions caused us to accept it and to
live in the order of plural marriage. I informed
these ladies that I knew families in Salt Lake City,
not of our faith, who had more trouble in their
families, than there was in the patriarchal order of
marriage, or where there was a plurality of wives
among our people. I explained to them that all
were not good who had a name in our Church, and
referred them to our Savior, who taught His disci-
ples that the Gospel was like unto a fish-net cast
into the sea, that gathered of all kinds; but by
and bye, said I, there will be a separation. Our
doctrine, I told them, did not sanction evil-doing
in anyone. To these ladies I bore a very strong
testimony to the truth, refuting the many false re-
ports that are circulated about our people; as I
expect to be judged for my words and acts, I
spoke earnestly and fearlessly, for I knew whereof
I testified, and felt this was an opportunity to be
improved. I can only give a short sketch of our
conversation, but it proved to them my sincerity
and earnestness. They seemed much interested
in my testimony, one of them particularly asking
many questions, which I answered according to
facts and principles. She said to me that I had
enlightened her very much on the Scriptures, more
than she had ever expected to understand. Our
conversation lasted about two hours, and when I
arose to retire, they bade me good night, saying,
I wish every one was as much interested in the
religion they profess as you are. I replied that I
loved my religion, as it was so broad and compre-
hensive, and that we were willing to suffer persecu
tion for the Gospel’s sake, knowing that we shall
be blest in time and in eternity, and receive eter-
nal life if we are faithful in the kingdom of God.
	“The following day we left Benson by train,
coming a very tedious route, changing cars five
times before we reached the D. & R. G. At La
Junta we met with Dr. Ellis R. Shipp and two little
girls, and traveled with her the remainder of the
journey home, which was very pleasant for us
both, and an agreeable surprise.
	“After we left Pueblo on the D. & R. G. train,
a gentleman passenger, who found I was going to
Salt Lake, introduced himself to me by saying he
had purchased property near the Jordan river, and
should make that place his future home. We
afterwards drifted into a conversation on religion.
He informed me that he was a Baptist by profes-
sion. I told him he would find we were not the
people we were represented to be, and that we
believed in being at peace with all mankind. I
explained to fiim the first principles of our religion,
quoting Scripture to prove to him it was the same
doctrine taught by Christ and His Apostles. I
said to him, we are accused of every kind of evil,
even the crime of murder, which are false accusa-
tions, as we know that a murderer never can be
forgiven in this world nor in the world to come.
	“He said he begged to differ with me, as he
believed all sin would be forgiven if the person
repented. I referred him to the saying of the
Savior, that a murderer hath not eternal
life abiding in him; but every man would
be judged by his works. I alluded to the mission
of our Savior while His body laid in the tomb,
which was to preach to the spirits in prison, that
were disobedient in the days o Noah, while the
ark was preparing; and that the Savior unlocked
the prison doors and set the captives free; they
had paid the debt of their disobedience, and
would be judged according to men in the flesh.. I
told him how the Apostle Paul explained the
condition of the people after the judgment; that

[Column 3]
there was one glory of the sun, another glory of
the moon, another of the star, and as one star
differeth from another in glory, so, also, is the
resurrection of the dead. All do not go to one
place, as the majority of the religious people of
to-day believe. The Savior said all manner of
sin would be forgiven except the shedding of inno-
cent blood, or denying the Holy Ghost, or .the
atonement of Christ, for that would crucify the
Man of God afresh and put him to an open
shame.
	This is but a brief synopsis of our conversa-
tion. We reached home on Saturday evening,
Jan. 14, after an absence of three months, having
journeyed over three thousand miles. We enjoyed
the visits and sight-seeing, but returned with the
same feeling as the poet who wrote,
	" ‘There is no place like home. ’ "


