THE MIND.
	The mind is the intelligent part in man, the 
understanding, the soul. It is a great power
which our Heavenly Father has given us to im-
prove and educate; a store-house in which to 
garner all knowledge gained on this earth, for
future use. The Doctrine and Covenants
teaches us that intelligence is the glory of God,
or, in other words, light and knowledge.
	We come upon the earth in a very helpless
state; our minds are almost a blank; the only
thing we understand is that most ancient of all
language, “the cry.” But see how the mind
of the babe grasps a knowledge of all things
passing around it, both in actions and in words;
see the great amount of knowledge it gains
and brings into active use in the short period
of two years; it can walk, talk, and imitate al-
most every action of its associates, and make 
practical use of its knowledge. It has confi-
dence in the words of older people, and has no
desire to do evil, or to gain riches, but merely
a desire to gain knowledge and become great, 
large and old, as its companions are. When 
the child becomes acquainted with its surround-
ings, its mind is still open to receive intelli-
gence, and if its mind is not occupied in some-
thing useful or not useful at home, so as to be
contented, it will seek for something away
from home, in the street, or wherever it is to
be found, good or bad, it mattereth not to the 
child at this tender age, so it satisfies the crav-
ings of the mind, just as food satisfies the
cravings of the stomach.
	My dear sisters, this is the time to place be-
fore the minds of our children everything good,
noble and of an elevating character, and im-
plant the moral education which is so necessary
for every man and woman to have to direct
the path of their future lives, for as the ball is
directed by the first four feet of its course by
its passage through the gun barrel, so, also, in
most cases, are the actions of men and women
by the training they receive in their youth.
God has told us very plainly that parents hav-
ing children in Zion, or in any of her stakes,
which are organized, who teach them not to un-
derstand the doctrine of repentance, faith in
Christ, the Son of the living God, and of bap-
tism, and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the
laying on of hands, when eight years old, the sins
will be upon the heads of the parents; and they
shall also teach their children to pray and walk
uprightly before the Lord. 
	The moral education is by far the most
necessary; it should be as a motive power to di-
rect all our actions; without it scientific knowl-
edge may prove a curse instead of a blessing.
But add to a moral training a thorough educa-
tion of the arts and sciences, and all other use-
ful knowledge, both mental and physical, then 
we have it in our power to do the greatest
amount of good, and we are approaching
nearer to the perfect man or woman God de-
signed us to be.
	All are interested in their children and their 
welfare, but all do not see nor understand alike.
We should not allow our children to spend


their time in idleness, but keep them constant-
ly employed in something useful, and always
remember fine clothes will wear out, pleasant
sights and scenes will fade from memory, fleet-
ing pleasures will soon be a thing of the past,
but time aud money spent in gaining a useful
education, will build a  foundation of everlast-
ing happiness and profit, which will pay an
honest interest both in time and eternity. It
will bring riches which can never be taken
from us; will make us useful in society, agree-
able companions, and is the only thing gained
upon this earth which we are permitted to take
with us when we die. 	
	We must understand the mind grows by
what it is fed upon, and the brain, the seat of.
the mind, is sustained by the growth of the
body, and the body grows by good food, fresh
air, and work and rest in suitable proportions;
hence, in our endeavors to improve and store
the mind, we should be equally interested in
the health and growth of the body. Sleep is
as necessary to the mind as food, for during the
day the process of tearing down goes on, and
during the night the process of building up
should restore the loss. Children require more
sleep than grown people, as the child has to
build the structure and keep up repairs at the
same time. Children often require more food
than grown people.
	The Lord has given us rules regarding our
food, and among them we find that hot drinks
are not good for man, neither are strong drinks
good for man, and tobacco is not good for man,
but was intended as a medicine for sick cattle.
Thus the Lord, in His mercy, has removed all
doubt on these subjects, and we should be very
diligent as mothers in Israel in teaching these
things in plainness to our children. The fol-
lowing I copy from “The Child’s Health
Primer:”
	“Tobacco is not good for man, but there is a
very good reason why it is worse for boys. If
you were going to build a house, would it be
wise for yoif to put in the stonework of the
cellar something that would make it less strong?
Something in the brickwork or the mortar, the
woodwork or the nails, the walls or the chim-
neys, that would make them weak and tottering
instead of strong and steady? It would be
bad enough if you should repair your house
with poor material, but surely it must be built
in the first place with the best material you
can get.
	“Wise doctors have said that the boy who
used tobacco while he is growing makes every
part of the body less strong than it otherwise
would be. Tobacco, in any form is an enemy
to youth; it stunts the growth, hurts the mind,
and cripples in every way the boy or girl w[--]
uses it.”
	The brain, the seat of thought, is placed
above all the other organs of the body, and is
calculated to control and dictate the passions
and desires. Hence, when we come to the un-
derstanding that such things are injurious to
our bodies, we should listen to the voice of
reason and let them severely alone, governing
our appetites, not letting our appetites govern
us. God designed that the mind,should govern
the body, and that we should control our
thoughts, words, actions, and everything con-
nected with them, and bring them into subjec-
tion to His revealed will. The powers of the
mind are beyond our comprehension; the more
we learn the more we can learn and the faster
and more capable we are to learn.
	We often hear people remark that a certain
young man has finished his education; but he
has merely  learned the rudiments or rules
whereby he is enabled to go on learning as long
as life lasts. None should consider his or her
education finished while life and reason lasts,
for the opportunities for increasing our knowl-
edge will not end with this life, but will extend
into eternity, according to the word of God.

[column 2]
	We, as mothers, should lay a broad founda-
tion upon the rock of revelation for each of
our children to build upon in the future, watch-
ing with all diligence, that nothing be allowed
to creep in to weaken or in any way mar the 
strength or beauty by our neglect.
							D. E. DUDLEY.
	Clifton, Feb. 6, 1888.


