INTERESTING PARTY.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	Marion, Idaho; is a part of the country better
known as Goose Creek. Our Society has been
organized about a year, before which time we
were a branch of the Oakley Society. We
have many good times together, and excellently
well attended meetings; we take the Exponent,
and reading from its columns forms a feature
of our gatherings.
	After introducing ourselves, we wish to tell
you, as briefly as possible, of a happy time we
recently enjoyed, the occasion being that of a
surprise party given Sister Susan K. Greene,
with whom many of your readers are well ac-
quainted.
	At a little before noon sixteen members of
the Relief Society alighted from their vehicles
at Sister Greene’s door, laden with lunch bas-
kets and cheery smiles.
	After the greetings were over, and all seated,
a hymn was sung. Prayer by Sister Clara
Smith, followed by singing, alter which the
following poem was read:		

		LINES
 ADDRESSED TO SISTER SUSAN, K.. GREENE, AT A
	SURPRISE PARTY. 
With joy we greet you, sister dear;
Respect and love have brought us here; 
[column 2]
With joy we come to give you cheer,	
   And show you our affection.

Your faith, which has all doubt defied,
Your many, many charms beside;	
You whom age has beautified,
   Command our close attention. 
	
That faith, through many trials, firm, 
Through it you do His will discern;
Through it a glory you will earn,
   E'en in the resurrection. 	

Though feeble now—your locks are gray—
No longer young, nor blithe, nor gay,
Yet to your children you're a ray
   Of daily consolation.

Their youthful joys you used to share,
In all their troubles you were there;
To cherish you is now their care,
   Yes, by their true devotion.

And friends to you now truer stand,
Yes, far and near, throughout the land, 
They hold to you a helping hand,
   And show appreciation.

Yet, though the body now is old,
The spirit's age has not been told;
'Twill soar, when death its wings unfold
   Unto its destination.

Unto its Father it will fly,
To dwell with Him in courts on high;
O, sweet the thought of by-and-by,
   When such will be your station.

And dear ones there will gather round,
Then friends long parted will be found;
O, sweet, so sweet will be the sound
   Of welcome salutation.

Shall we, O, sister dear, shall we
Among these blessed chosen be?
Shall we be favored and meet thee?
   It is for our selection.

That all your days may hence be peace,
That your good works may never cease,
And that your blessings may increase,
   Is the prayer of us your sisters. 
			LOUISA PICKETT,
		In behalf of the Relief Society.

	After the reading, the sisters presented Sister
Greene with a token of their love and appre-
ciation in the tangible form of a purse and its
contents.	
	Our President, Sister Fannie Gorringe, made
a few brief remarks bearing on the occasion of
our visit there.
	Sister Greene expressed her thanks to the
sisters for their remembrance, and the pleasure
afforded by their visit; also favored them with
her strong testimony of the truth, some inci-
dents of her experience, and much good coun-
sel and teaching, which we are always pleased
of having the opportunity to receive from one
so well qualified for giving instruction.
	Appropriate remarks followed by Sisters
Melissa Homer, Alice Tohnan, Clara Smith,
Annie Clark, Sarah E. Bates, Hattie Whitney
and Lavenia Bates. Another hymn was sung,
after which the tables were set, and all partook
of a bounteous repast.
	After spending an agreeable hour or so, a
closing hymn was sung, and the gathering
closed with prayer by Sister Greene. We de-
parted for our homes, each one feeling they had
spent a day long to be remembered.
		Truly your sisters,
			FANNIE GORRINGE, Prest.
			LOUSIA PICKETT, Sec.
	Marion, Idaho, Eeb. 6, 1888.


