SALT LAKE CITY, 	-	-	FFBRUARY 15,1888.


[column 1]
    FORTIETH ANNIVERSARY OF THE
	 WOMAN SUFFRAGE MOVE-
				MENT.
	The International Council, which will be held
next month in Washington, D. C., and of which
we have already published several notices, is to be
a more elaborate sort of Jubilee for women than
was at first anticipated, even by the ladies who
planned the campaign. Miss Susan B. Anthony
has been interviewed by Washington reporters,
and has spoken quite wittily upon the subject.
	Dear Miss Anthony, whom all suffragists love
very dearly, has the most ready wit at her com-
mand, and reporters or interrogaters either never
get the best of her. We have always noticed,
whether on the platform or in the reception or
drawing-room, she always has an answer ready
for every satirist, and so cool and collected as to
preserve her womanly dignity under the most
trying circumstances Her courage and equan-
imity are unsurpassed. Such women as Miss
Anthony are rare, and in genuine originality she
equals any of the leaders in the suffrage cause.
Mrs. Stanton and Lucy Stone are, perhaps, more
motherly in their views and thoughts, but Miss
Anthony is a leader born, and carries both the
mothers and daughters along with her, fearlessly,
independently and without hesitation. Young
women look up to her as an oracle almost, and
her very manner gives prestige to her work. No
one who has ever seen Miss Anthony can help
noticing her peculiar face and figure, so positive
in its character, so remarkable in its outline; and
so emphatic is she in her declaration of right, and
denunciation of wrong, that she cannot fail to
impress her convictions upon the public.
	We venture to say this movement will forward
the suffrage for women that has been delayed al-
most everywhere for forty years, and that States
and Territories will, with renewed energy, take
up the subject and accomplish something credit-
able in favor of the ballot for women. The asso-
ciations to be represented are to be mostly of a
national character. Miss Anthony said to a Wash-
ington reporter, “When first we thought of hold
ing this woman’s jubilee none of us imagined we
should find more than half a dozen Nationally
organized associations of women, and the Secre-
tary tells me we have sent out to associations
nearly forty official invitations.”
	The question then asked Miss Anthony was.
“Have you invited only nationally organized bodies
of women?” Miss Anthony’s reply was, “That
has been our rule so far as invitations are con-
cerned. Besides these, we have invited a number
of distinguished women to speak on various kinds
of unorganized work. For instance take the various
professions. We have women physicians, lawyers
ministers, publishers, editors. No associations
of women in these lines of work exist, yet they
must be heard of at our council if we wish to
make it anything approaching a complete picture
of what women have done and are doing. So we
[column 2]
have invited women who are acquainted from
practice with these professions.” From this one
may gather a little what the nature of the Council
will be.
	By letter from Mrs. Spofford, the Treasurer, we
learn that the price for the use of Albaugh’s Opera
House will be $1,800, but she says, “The largest
churches here will not hold the people that come
to our regular meetings.”
	The programme, of the International Counci
was not quite complete at the latest information
we received, but among the delegates from nation-
ally organized bodies of women in this country
are Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, Mrs. Lucy Stone,
Miss Francis Willard, Mrs. Caroline Buell, Mrs.
Julia Ward Howe, Miss Mary F. Eastman and
Miss Clara Barton. The Western Association of
Collegiate Alumnae send their President, the
eminent microscopist of the Michigan University,
Louise Reed Stowell. Mrs. Frazier will represent
the Moral Education Society. Mrs. Laura Mc-
Neir, the ladies of the G. A. R. Rev. Antoinette
Brown Blackwell, the first woman ordained to the
ministry, will be present; also Rev. Anna Shaw,
the only ordained Methodist women. Pendita
Ramabai will speak for the women of India. Fin-
land, Denmark and Sweden are to send representa-
tives. France has elected Madame Bagelot of
Paris as a delegate,and England sends to the
Council Miss Helen Taylor, step daughter of
John Stuart Mill. Miss Henrietta Muller, a mem-
ber of the London school board, will come to the
Council. and also Mrs. Alice Scratcherd, a promi-
nent woman suffragist in  England, Helen
Campbell, author of the “Prisoners of Poverty,”
who, on account of her work in England, will not
be able to attend in person, will send a paper,
which will be read, as also a report by Fanny
Zampini Salazaro of Rome. This lady is editor 
of the Review of the interests of women pub- I
lished in Rome, and will write upon the work of
Italian women.
	This altogether new movement on the part of
tbe N. W. S. A. is distinctive in itself, and will
do more towards making woman suffrage popular
than any work that has yet been done, or any
convention that has been called. It is bringing
together in a General Assembly the brightest and
ablest leaders, and the most intellectual women of
the age that are before the public. It is an inspira-
tion in the advancement of the cause of woman
that will promote all the several interests of the
great subjects under consideration by both men
and women of progressive thought.
	Industrial enterprises that will give employment
to woman and to girls, by which they can gain a
livlihood in the over-crowded cities of the old
and new world, is one of the most important mat-
ters to be hoped for from the ballot in the hands
of women, or from the powerful influence of a
popular body of interested workers in this direc-
tion. That much can be done in suppressing vice
by industry there is little doubt. When pure-
minded women move earnestly and in unity upon
some of these momentous questions at issue, and
when noble, lion-hearted men are willing to join
harmoniously in these great and high en-
deavors for the bettering of the condition of
those who are powerless to lift themselves, in-
stead of buying votes for whiskey then there will
be something permanent accomplished. Mean-
time let us hope that Congress will treat no other
class of women as its members have treated
“Mormon” women after they had been given the
ballot, and voted for seventeen years, to
take it away without cause or provocation
of any kind and only this frivolous pre-
sumption, “We have the power and you can’t help
yourselves.’
	The worst excuse for not granting suffrage to
other women is that “Mormon” women voted a
“Mormon” tictket. “It was quoted as 
trong argument why none of the women in
[column 3]
the United States should be permitted to vote.”
This does seem ridiculous but nevertheless the
statement is published in the papers.


