EDITOR WOMAN'S EXPONENT:
	May God bless Aunt Ruth for her able article
 in the EXPONENT of January 15th, 1888.  I hope
she may live long to advance such indispensible
and correct truths as she there disseminates.
	How can people of thought, that can gain in-
formation of Utah and its doings, denounce the
women thereof as ignorant and down-trodden? I
wish they would read Aunt Ruth's appeal, for
therein is food for reflection for both old and
young; its sentiments are high-souled and convinc-
ing, particularly to unbiased minds; there are 
principles referred to which would do all good to
profit by.  Nothing short of inspiration, coupled
with a knowledge of the true Gospel and its work-
ings, could have aided her in so ably defining and
treating upon such magnanimous and important
subjects.
	I am truly thankful I can abundantly testify to
and endorse her remarks, being privileged to
drink at the same pure fountain, which our Father
offers to all liberally who are athirst.  Though I 
am not so richly endowed as Ruth, yet we have
the blessed assurance that those who seek shall 
find.  There is a field of information in her state-
ments, very clearly and logically shown; all im-
partial readers can understand and coincide
with the correctness of her views. I hope may
will take a lesson by the sound principles so 
tersely yet beautifully explained.  I would that
every line was riveted upon my memory, as I am
desirous of gaining from such wise and compre-
hensive teachings.  May we search our hearts
and purge there from all obnoxious and corrupting
weeds. 
	I also very much appreciated the editorial in the 
same issue upon the Woman Suffrage movement
I feel to stand beside such noble women and sus-
tain them by my faith and untiring efforts in de-
fense of right and justice.  Their hearts are loyal
to womankind, and may they meet with encourage
ment and be successful. 
	I pray that my sisters may not slacken their
hands, but gain strength and fortitude to accom-
plish all that is required of them in these truly the
latter days, that the Holy Spirit may be granted us
to discern between truth and error.
	May God speed the day when our brethren may 
enjoy immunity from their enemies, when 
righteousness shall rule, and those who oppose
the laws of Cod be brought to a full sense of their
own condition. 
				Yours truly,
								M. A. TILL.
	Feb. 13, 1888.


