NOTES AND NEWS.

	Drunkards would not be elected to the U.
S. Senate, if women were voters.

	In Wyoming,where women have voted since
1869, it is expressly provided by law that there
shall be no discrimination on account of sex in
the pay for any kind of work.

	All find in Scripture a helper toward the
discovery of truth and the attainment of happi-
ness; a guide to the understanding, a corrector
and supporter of the imagination, a comforter
of the heart, a teacher of wisdon, a rule of
faith, a source of joy.—H. Hunter.

	Mrs. Ada M. Bittenbender, the lady lawyer
of Nebraska, who is now at Washington look-
ing after the interests of the W. C. T. U , was
the author of the excellent Nebraska law
which makes mothers joint guardians of their
children with the father.  In all the States of
the Union except four—Kansas, lowa, New
Jersey and Nebraska—the father is the sole
legal owner of the children, the mother hav-
ing no legal rights in them, unless the marriage
has been broken up by death or divorce. Mrs.
Bittenbender also drew the bill which passed
the last Nebraska Legislature,providing for an
Industrial Home for Fallen Women.—Ex.

	It seems not to be very extensively known
that there is, in Argonia, Kansas, a woman
mayor.  She was elected last Spring, and is
filling the office, it is said, satisfactorily and
conscientiously.  It is said she is pointed out to
strangers as one of the curiosities of the town.
Her name is Susanna Medora Salter; she is a
married woman, twenty-seven years old, with
four children; is a blonde of medium height,
slender in figure and dresses with good taste.
Her father, Oliver Kinsey, was the first mayor
of Argonia.  Kansas was the first State that
granted municipal suffrage to women.  The elec-
tion of Mrs. Salter began in a joke,but it is now
an established fact.—Ex.

	In 1886 there were in the prisons of the
United States 53,00 men and 5,000 women.
The fact is that there are not many bad women.
Men and women do not make two classes, but
one class.  If woman does not have logic, she
has something that makes up for that deficiency;
she has intuition, and one is as likely to come
out right as the other.  There is not a ques-
tion before the people that has not a moral
basis.  Only one-half the people—the male
half—is working at these problems.  Call in
the other half—the female half—and you have
the whole of humanity.  If men have done


grandly, what will they do with women to help
them?—Mary A. Livermore.


