UTAH WOMEN MISREPRESENTED.

	In The Woman's Journal of March 9th, 1889,
(a very ably edited paper published in Boston,
Mass.) in an article on suffrage entitled “Known
By Its Fruits” and signed H. B. B., we find the
following paragraph concerning Utah.
	“Utah gave woman suffrage in 1869. It proved
satisfactory both to the women and men of that
Territory. For eighteen years the women voted
as uniformly and as generally as the men.
Being Mormons they voted the Mormon ticket
like the men. Because they so voted they have
been disfranchised by Congress, in order to
lessen the Mormon power. But Utah cannot be
fairly cited either way, because every Mormon,
man or woman, is under a religious obligation to
vote “according to counsel.” Mormon suffrage
is a mere form. It is cast as a unit under the
order of the Church authorities, and does not rep-
resent any free individual choice whatever.”
	If we were not as a people, so accustomed to
misrepresentation, it would be astonishing, after
all that has been said recently in Congress and in
the Conventions of women concerning suffrage
here, to see a report of this kind coming as it
does from a man who ought to be rightly posted
on this question of woman suffrage in Utah and
all the other Territories or States. 
	Utah is not to be cited, either way because
“every Mormon man or woman is under a
religious obligation to vote according to counsel.”
Now as the women of Utah are the party of the
first part of this paragraph of H. B. B’s, because
it is woman’s suffrage to which he alludes,we will
speak from knowledge, personal and general on
this matter. We live in Utah and ought to know
better than Boston or New York people about
woman suffrage in the Territory of Utah, though
we cannot at the present time go into details, but
simply state over again, what has often been
asserted of late—that Mormon women voted with
the same freedom as Gentile women; each voted
for those they considered the best man to repre-
sent the people in the offices they were selected to
fill. Some Gentile women voted the “Peoples’
Party Ticket," so we have been informed on
good authority; that is we presume, the ticket

[Column Two]

H. B. B. would denominate the Mormon ticket;
the majority of Gentile women voted what is
known here as the “Liberal” ticket. Those were
the two political parties here at the time women
voted—since then there has been a Democratic
Party formed, and in all probility some women
would have voted on that ticket had the franchise
still been in their hands.
	We fail to see why suffrage, “cannot be fairly
cited either way,” here as elsewhere. In the
Territory women voted for all elective officers.
even for the Delegate to Congress, the women of
the Peoples’ Party for the candidate whose name
was on their ticket, the Liberals for their candi-
date in the same way.
	How that differs from other people's voting,
will H. B. B. have the kindness to consider ?
It is supposable that they vote for the men of
their choice, so did the women of Utah. When
H. B. B. talks about voting, “according to coun-
sel,” he speaks not from knowledge but from
hearsay. Lillie Devereux Blake, writes to The
Woman's Journal of conditions in Utah, having
paid a visit here last year, of a few days, but not
meeting Mormon women in public or in private,
to ascertain from them concerning a matter which
they must necessarily understand better than
lookers-on, especially those blinded by preujdice.
When one goes to Boston and wants to know
what woman suffrage is doing in that city, or
state, they go to the office of the woman’s paper
and to the representative women of that move-
ment, and not to the opposition, nor to the women
who sit in ease and indifference; they could not
give correct information; but when people come to
Utah they profess to know all about Mormon
women without ever seeing or talking with them;
and are prepared to lecture on Mormonism, and to
call them ignorant, degraded, and low; slaves to
the men. etc. etc.
	It is cruel and unjust to publish such notices.
Mormon women have as much love of liberty and
of country as other women, and are as much a
part of the great body politic. They have rights
too that ought to be respected and considered;
and never was there an act of greater injustice
perpetrated than the arbitrary act of Congress in
taking away the franchise from the women of this
Territory, Mormon, Jew and Gentile.
	What an outcry would be made by all the
woman suffragists if the women of Wyoming were
to have their franchise taken—but it is all right
for Utah, because they “vote according to coun-
sel.” Would that all the women of the United
States would vote according to their best convic-
tions as Mormon women did, when they enjoyed
the privilege; if they would and had a full and
complete suffrage extended to them, a great re-
formation would soon take place in all the de-
partments at Washington, and spread thence over
all this free and glorious country. Many other
motives animate voters beside the highest good
of the largest number; and it is a well known
fact that men’s votes are often bought for whiskey
and for other commodities perhaps less injurious.
Employers of men engaged in various pursuits
influence, if they do not actually control the
votes of those employed by them; they know
their support depends upon it, the bread and
butter for the children perhaps.
	In Utah the ballot is secret, so that one may
vote as he wishes, without any one knowing or
suspecting how his vote is cast, and this one fact
alone should be a correction of what H. B. B.
has said in the article referred to. “Mormon
suffrage" the writer says “is mere form;” does he
not know, has it not been frequently declared that
civil and ecclesiastical affairs in Utah are as much
separate and apart as anywhere else in the world,
and that no man holds a civil office because of his
position in the Church. Men of  influence,
honesty and integrity here as elsewhere are
selected to fill places of honor and of trust. Are

[Column Three]

not these the men who should occupy public
offices?	
	We hope H. B. B. will acceept this xplanation of
his article and believe that Mormon women under-
stand the condition of the suffrage in Utah better
than those at a distance. Also that they are well
aware of the fact that if it were in the power of
Mormon men, to grant suffrage to all women
they would not have to ask twice.


