THE GIRLS. 

	I often wonder if "the girls of our set" in
the years of the good old time" ever look back
and enjoy themselves as I do. There were
only a few of us, and not rich in this world's
goods, but oh, so rich in happiness. Our meet-
ing house, our school house and dancing hall
which was built of logs, with a huge fire-place
opposite the one door has witnessed more real
enjoyment than its commedious successor.
	Then, we were very proud of a new linsey
dress, and dressed what to-day would appear
as very plain, we used to dance as much, or
more than the well dressed belles of to day.
How we used to make our wheels hum, and
then when we met, boast of the number of
skeins we had spun. Then our evening gather-
ings, how sweet the potatoes were baked in the
coals, how often we were comforted when the
"corn in the hand" was as we guessed it when
"supposing he loves you," was the question.
	And the rides, and sometimes we girls would
really tee-ter. No doubt we were Tom boys,
but I thank God that our hoydenism did not
lead to sin. Now we "girls" are mature
women, to whom many things of the past
would appear as trifles light as the air, were it
not for the sun shine of those days that so far
have cast a radiance over our lives.
	We are all mothers of large families, except
one, who with her first born lies where our
restless feet often led us, and where most of us
have since lain one or more of our darlings.
	We are scattered afar now; but few remain
at the "home of our childhood." Some were
driven by adverse circumstances and some by
cruel laws; and all are struggling amidst the
care and responsibilities that rest upon all true
women that try to make the world better.
Though we have a glorious hope for the future,
the present some times tries the souls, and the
heart often throbs with pain at the thought of
home and the many friends there. To-night,
as my heart is warmed and gladdened by
sweet memories, I feel to ask God's choicest
blessings for "the girls."		E. T.


Mrs. Ella Dietz Clymer is elected president
of Sorosis.


