SEVIER COUNTY W. S. A.

     In response to a call which was made by in-
fluential women of Sevier County, a number of
suffragists, ladies from different parts of the
county, met in the Richfield Relief Society Hall,
Thursday, March 14, 1889.
     Mrs. Elizabeth Bean stated that we had met
together to organize a Woman Suffrage Associa-
tion for Sevier County.  She then called for a 
nomination for a chairman of the meeting.
     Mrs. Celia E. Bean, nominated Mrs. Merinda
Halliday as chairman, which was seconded by
several ladies, and was carried.
     The Chairman then asked for nomination for a 
secretary; Mrs. Caroline Morrison then nomin-
ated Miss Sarah Gardner, as secretary of the
meeting; seconded by Mrs. Ina Bean.  Carried.
     Singing by the choir, "America."
     Mrs. Dorcas Farnsworth offered the opening
prayer.
     The Chairman then gave a synopsis of the call;
the ladies then proceeded to organize the Asso-
ciation; Mrs. Elizabeth Bean nominated Mrs. 
Celia E. Bean,  President; seconded by a number 
of ladies.  Carried.
     The Chairman then asked for a nomination of
three Vice-Presidents; Mrs. Ina Bean nominated
Mrs. Louisiana Heppler, as First Vice-President;
Miss Aggie Gardner nominated Mrs. Caroline
Sylvester, Second Vice-president; Mrs. S. J.
Spencer nominated Mrs. Thurza Thurber, Third
Vice-President, seconded and carried.
     Mrs. C. E. Bean nominated Miss Flora D.
Bean, Secretary of the Association; seconded
and carried.  Mrs. Dorcas Farnsworth nominated
Miss Allice Hoyt, Corresponding Secretary;
seconded and carried.
     Mrs. Thurza Thurber nominated Mrs. Maria
Hansen, Treasurer; seconded and carried. Miss
Aggie Gardner, was elected Chairman of Execu-
tive Committee, and the names of Mrs. Henrietta
Wright, Mrs. I. F. Bean, Mrs. Minnie A. Nebeker
and Mrs. Caroline Morrison, were presented as
members of Executive Committee, and were sus-
tained by vote.
     Mrs. Celia E. Bean, moved that the Committee
on By-Laws be appointed by the Chairman.
Carried.  Mrs. Lola M. Farnsworth, Mrs. M. Seeg-
miller and Mrs. Emma Spafford, were accordingly
appointed and sustained.  The committee then
retired.  During their absence a very interesting
speech on "Woman Suffrage" was given by Mrs.

[column 2]
C. E. Bean.  By request of the Chairman, Hon.
Wm. H. Seegmiller addressed the audience.
"The Rights of Women;" the subject received
its due analysis.  The Secretary read the Con-
stitution of "The National Woman Suffrage Asso-
ciation."  Mrs. Elizabeth Bean moved that the
Constitution be adopted.  Seconded and carried.
By request of the Chairman, Mrs. Louisiana
Heppler addressed the audience; her remarks
were truly worthy of the highest commendation.
The Committee on By-Laws having returned, the
Chairman of the Committee, Mrs. L. M. Farns-
worth, read the By-Laws and Regulations.  Mrs.
Elizabeth Bean moved that they be read, and
voted upon separately.
     The Secretary then proceeded to read them.
Mrs. Celia E. Bean moved that the labors of the
Committee on By-Laws be accepted and the Com-
mittee excused.  Seconded and carried.  The
following is a copy of the By-Laws and Regula-
tions.

