U. W. S. A. 

	The regular monthly meeting of the Utah
Woman Suffrage Association, convened in
the Social Hall, March 9th, 1889. Vice-Presi-
dent Mrs. L. D. Alder, in the chair. Prayer
by Hon. H. J. Grant. After miscellaneous
business was attended to, by invitation, Hon.
H. J. Grant, made the following speech:
	I have listened with interest and attention
to the minutes that have been read of the last
meeting. I can say that I am interested
myself, in the movement, for which this Asso-
ciation is laboring I believe, and have be-
lieved for many years, that it is the right of
those ladies that bear their proportion of the
burdens of government, to have equal rights
and privileges with the men if they wish to.
	I confess that there are some portions of the
duties, devolving upon those who manage the
public affairs in territories, cities, and the
general government, that I think, instead of
being elevating, would be the reverse to the
ladies. At the same time, the great majority
of the duties devolving on a citizen of the
country, can be equally shared with the ladies,
and to the great benefit of all. I remember in
our legislature, some years ago, there was a
bill introduced giving the ladies a right to
hold office. There was considerable opposition
to it, and some of it very marked. I remem-
ber taking sides then, when but a boy, with
those who favored granting this right; and I
thought those who contended, showed a lack
of liberality in their views, that was not be-
coming; and I have not changed in my opinion,
to the present time. It is generally considered
that a low class of people congregate at the
polling places, but those of us who took the
trouble to notice the conduct of the people at
such places in this city, prior to the time of
the legislature granting the franchise to women,
and the condition after, would see a marked
improvement. Well, the disposition of riotism
disappeared, and order took its place. I be-
lieve if we were to grant the right of voting, 
to the women, that the men that hold office
would be of a higher type than those who
hold office to-day. It is a fact that among
sensible and honorable men, in the various
sections of the country, almost without excep-
tion, I believe that Utah is the exception,
however, politics is considered beneath the
notice of the better class of citizens; and it is
to the office seeker, that to-day governs our
country; and saloon-men, and what is known
as the lower class of the people, not lower as
far as wealth is concerned, but in morals.
New York city, to-day, is overrun with just
such a class of people. In Chicago, they are
standing, upon a volcano almost, because of a
lack of honesty of the men who govern in
that section of the country. Those who elect
officers, the foreign element that has come
there and have sworn allegiance to the govern-
ment, are filled with Nihilistic desires, although
they have sworn allegiance to it. You all
know that if the power still remained in the
Legislature here, to grant the women the
privilege of voting, that this would be granted
unto them. Those of us who are Mormons,
know how energetically our so called friends
fought to try and get the right for the ladies
to vote, thinking that the Mormon trouble
would be solved by this means. The Utah
Legislature took this up and gave the right to


[Column 1]

the ladies, until these same reformers and pro-
fessed friends of Utah, then asked that the vote
be taken away from them. They showed their
love by working for their interest, they turned
round and worked in the opposite direction.
When women shall have the privilege of vot-
ing, they will exercise it more discreetly than
the men; because go where you will, you will
find more courage to stand by what is known
as duty, no matter what may be the consequences,
burning in the hearts of women than you find
in the hearts of men. Men are willing to
sacrifice their friends for personal glory;
their ambition has a price, and when it is
reached they are willing to sell out. This is
to a certain extent true, and if it be true that
they are willing to sell out, and the majority
of women are not, we may expect that a better
class of people will be chosen by their vote;
instead of saloon corporations controling in
great cities like New York, the moral citizens
would desire an honest government, and women
would desire their sons and husbands to hold
office and labor for the good of the people;
but to day when we find that to hold public
office is almost to be slurred at, we find these
same mothers advising their sons to work in
any place rather than hold a public office.
	This ought to be changed, and instead of feel-
ing that it is a disgrace to hold a public office,
these officers would feel it a credit to occupy
such positions. There is no man that holds
an office in our Church, no matter how much
he may be called upon to sacrifice his own
interest, and his own personal welfare, but
thinks more of discharging the duties of his
office, than of his own worldly gains. The
same thing should apply with reference to
public offices. The reason assigned for taking
away the right of the women to vote, was
because they voted as their husbands told
them. There is no man, but may perhaps
make the statement that other men's wives
can be controlled, but he will never say that
his own could, because they will have their
own way; other men's wives can be controlled
but he knows his own wont.
	Now this is a fact, they will vote as they
please, and they are more discriminating, than
men, and have a moral insight into the charac-
ter of men. The Lord seems to have im-
planted in them the power to read and discern
men. This is illustrated by many a man
being taken in by his fellow man; but it is
very seldom the case with woman, when she
arrives at years of understanding, at that age
when she would be entitled to vote; she can
read the character better than man can, and
with knowledge, that seems to be implanted in
her, I maintain that she is a better person to
vote than man himself. I desire earnestly the
success of this meeting, and seeing that I had
the privilege of speaking first, I will say good
day; and take the privilege of reading what
may follow in your meeting. I shall be pleased
to meet with you at any time, and mingle my
voice in encouraging the movement in which
you are engaged. I wish you abundant suc-
cess in this and in every other good labor.
	Mrs. E. S. Richards. Mrs. President, ladies:
When our President said that she expected a
speech from our delegate, she made me tremble;
because I did not think any one expected a
speech from me to-day; I was merely to give a
report. We left here on Sunday evening and
arrived in Washington on Thursday evening,
giving me Friday and Saturday to visit the
ladies there before the convention convened.
	Mrs. Caine was out of the city when I arrived,
so I called upon Miss Anthony, who was very
busy and had left word that she would not be
able to see any one, but she received me very
kindly. She said that Mrs. Wells had written
of our organization, and she was very much
pleased indeed. She sympthizes with us, and
was glad that we had taken this step.

[Column 2]

	I paid our dues, which made us an auxiliary
to the National Woman's Suffrage Association.
Although the programme had been made out,
she said that we should have an opportunity of
being heard. We had ten minutes to speak
in, and I asked for fourteen; it was granted,
that just gave me time to read what I had
prepared. We were received very kinkly.
	Mrs. Caine and I called upon many ladies,
and had pleasant chats with them. They pro-
tested against the suffrage being taken away
from us, and they assured us that we could
reckon upon their vote were there anything to
call them this year. We attended all the
sessions during the week, with the exception
of one. We were very much pleased and in-
terested in the convention.
	When Mr. Grant was speaking to-day, he
spoke with just as much spirit and feeling as
he would at any other meeting. This is an
evidence to me that it is right for us to meet
and claim our rights. This question of union
which perhaps most of you know of, the Ameri-
can Association, headquarters in Boston, was
discussed asking a union with the National
Suffrage Association, it was considered but not
decided upon. We received a letter from the
Chairman of the Executive Committee asking
our opinion as to this union; she is not in favor
of the union herself, I do not know how Mrs.
Stanton feels in regard to it, but the great
majority were for the union. We stated that our
organization was recent, and had not had time to
think and consult about the subject. I under-
stand that we are to have a meeting about con-
ference time, and that would be a good time to
bring that subject up. I remained after the
convention was over, waiting to have company
home. I called on the wives of some of the
Senators and Representatives, and the wives
of the Justices of the Supreme Court. I had
very pleasant chats.
	Mrs. Ingalls, wife of the President of the
Senate, invited us to a reception which she
gave, and we thought it quite an honor. I
don't know but what my ten minutes is up. I
have nothing more to say. I am pleased to
think we are organized, and that as many of
us feel like meeting together.
	And if we don't feel personally that we need
the franchise, that our exercising it will not
help, we know the world is full of suffering
women who have no rights at all, who can
scarcely get a living, and no man would ever
be asked to work for what they do. Poverty
shows us that women too should have their
rights. They carry the greatest burden in
life and ought to have all the privileges that
belong to them. I know I never neglected to
vote while I had the privilege, and I can say
here that my husband never has dictated as to
how I should vote. I have never seen any-
thing that was unbecoming at the polls.
	It may be necessary in some places to restrict
them from coming within fifty feet of the polls,
nothing of this kind has been done here that I
know of. I was glad to return home after the con-
vention was over, and would have come alone,
but my husband was called home as you all
know, and I was glad to have company. I
should not even have stopped to the Inaugural
Ball had I had the opportunity.
	Mrs. E. S. Taylor. Mrs. President and friends:
The position which I occupy this afternoon, is
a new and very strange one to me. I therefore
crave your sympathy and your forbearance.
Woman her position, her rights, and her cap-
abilities are waiting to be solved. No one con-
tests the right of woman to be a wife or mother,
or denies that she has not the right to
beautifying her home. Why not grant her
the right to shine in politics and in the nation?
She is a citizen of the commonwealth and is
amenable to its laws. If she commits crime,
she has to answer for that, she must be punished
as her brother man.

[Column 3]

	If she has property, she must pay taxes;
this is taxation without representation, and
was one of the great causes which led to the
Revolutionary war. I have never heard of
women being denied the many rights that are
hers, but she may yet demand other privileges
that she has been denied, and yet she certainly
has the right to vote. The right of franchise
has been given even to the foreigners, those
who come to our shores, often the very scum
and outcasts of society in the countries from
which they come. And even the illiterate and
degraded negro has been given the right of
suffrage. I say shame upon the nation, shame
upon the governors and lawmakers who can
make and enact and carry out such laws, when
they deny the right to the mothers, their pure
and intelligent mothers, wives and daughters.
	I have never heard any one doubt the right
of woman to earn her own livelihood, and to
work—even to drudge for the care of children
and support those whom God has given her to
care for; and yet I have known of her being
deprived of the same compensation as man
where she has performed the service equally
well; she is denied that which she has earned,
years ago, a few noble women organized to assert
merely because she is a woman. Some forty
and work for equal rights, they have done a
noble work, and they are not discouraged
although they have not attained that which they
have set out for, a perfect franchisement.
	Mrs. Dr. Pratt. Mrs. President, Ladies: I
have been very much interested in what I have
heard to-day, especially in the report from our
delegate and her trip east. I have always felt
thoroughly satisfied that all that the world
needed to receive us, and have a great deal of
respect for us, would be to be well abquainted
with us. And as this acquaintance is increas-
ing, visitors are coming continually in our
midst, and we are brought more in contact
with the world, I feel they will get acquainted
with us, and that our friends will far out weigh
all prejudices against us; I am very glad the
time has come when we shall be a part of this
great political move among women.
	Why women are not acknowledged power
of the body politic, I can never understand,
except in this way, that it always has been
man's course to assume unto himself all the
emoluments and privileges and powers. And
they act out in politics as they do in anything
else, that what is his, is his own, and a wife
is part of his property.
	There is no where in this world, say as much
as they can against the Mormons, where women
have as much liberty, and have it as freely
granted as here in Utah. When we thoroughly
understand what is meant by the political
economy, we still more are in wonder why
women are not considered a worthy factor in
carrying out this economy. It means the
safety, peace and preservation of the govern-
ment. Now then, women of course, as far as
safety in concerned, will have more power from
its internal arrangement than she will in pro-
tecting the country from outside invaders. It
is not necessary for woman, to have her full
rights, that she shall be a soldier, that she
shall be on the police force, or that she shall
fill positions that are unwomanly.
	Meeting adjourned for one month.
		CORNELIA H. CLAYTON, Secretary.


