EDITORIAL NOTES.

     THERE will be a General Conference of the
Relief Society held sometime during April Annual
Conference; it is hoped and expected there will
be representative women from all the Stakes of
Zion present, and no doubt much needed instruc-
tion will be given.  Mrs. Zina D. H. Young, will
preside.
     C. W. PENROSE, Editor of the Deseret News,
is again at home after an absence of over four
years.  We rejoice to see him again in his accus-
tomed places, and to hear his voice in the public
assemblies of the Saints.  The WOMAN'S EX-
PONENT should extend cordial greeting to Elder
Penrose if only on account of his strong and able
advocacy of the woman question.
     ON the fifth of March ult., Mr. and Mrs. Wm.
S. Clark, of Orange, Mass., celebrated the fiftieth
anniversary of their marriage.  It is seldom that
husband and wife live together so uninterruptedly,
as they have done.  No very great sorrow has
come to them, and their lives have glided even and
smoothly along.  Truly might it be said, "Their
lines were cast in pleasant places."  Out of the
seventy-five guests assembled at the Golden Wed-
ding, there were three only who were present on
the fifth of March, 1839, two sisters and a brother
of the bride.  Many handsome and costly golden
gifts were received, some of them sent from long
distances.  Poems too, that had been written ex-
pressly for them, sent from Idaho and Kansas
(the one from Idaho we published in our last
issue) were read during the evening.  Music,
speeches, toasts and reminiscences of other days,
with delicious refreshments were the luxuries in-
dulged in, and everything went merrily as at the
former wedding, when both were "young and
charming."  Their years sit lightly on them in
the quiet of their New England village home, with
their children and children's children around
them.  May peace, prosperity, and contentment
also continue through their remaining years.  Mrs.
Clark is the sister of the writer, who remembers
every detail of the wedding in the old home, fifty
long years ago; when the large family of boys
and girls were all together, those now remaining are
scattered far and wide, but we are sure all join in
loving wishes for the bride and bridegroom of fifty
years ago, still faithful and true to the vows
plighted in the long ago, and journeying on together
through life's highways and by-ways, hand in 
hand and hearts in love united.


