ERNESTINE ROSE.

	This celebrated woman of whom we have
heard so much and known so little, is still
living in England, and the Woman's Penuy
Paper published there, recently gave a very
interesting account of her, from which we
make a few brief extracts. This venerable
champion of the cause of woman's emancipa-
tion, certainly deserves the gratitude and
honor of the women of America, for the
noble efforts she has made in behalf of better
laws and better conditions
	"Ernestine Rose was born in 1810, and thus
is now seventy-eight years old. Her great
life work is over, and she is waiting, in suffer-
ing and infirmity, to be buried in England
by the side of her husband who died six years
ago.
	" 'Our lives were as one,' she said; 'he re-
joiced in my work, and gladly furnished the
means for my journeys and lectures.' And
then she showed me his portrait, which was
hanging near her chair. I ventured to inquire
what had led her in her youth to think of
the emancipation of woman, for I knew she
was the daughter of a Jewish Rabbi living
in Poland, and I wondered how her light had
come to her.
	" 'At an early age,' she began reading the
Hebrew Scriptures, and met with difficulties
of belief at every step; when she requested
explanations, she was told, 'little girls must
not ask questions,' she could not see why 'a
little girl' should not have the same right as a
little boy to ask questions."
	Sixty years ago she began lecturing, and
has "spoken all over the States in behalf of
human rights in general, and woman's rights
in particular." "Although very infirm in body,
her face bears the stamp of noble and vigorous
intellect. Her features have strength and
dignity, and her large dark eyes seem to have
lost little of their fire."
	"The life of this wonderful woman is full
of interest. At the age of fourteen she re-
nounced her belief in the Bible, as it had
been interpreted to her by Rabbinical teachers,
and the religion of her father, and this caused
her great trouble and persecution. At the
age of sixteen she lost her mother. A year
after she was involved in a law suit, in which
she pleaded her own cause and won it; but
left the property with her father, declaring
that she cared nothing for it, but only for jus-
tice. and that her inheritance might not fall
into mercenary hands. She then traveled in
various countries in Europe, witnessing and
taking part in important affairs. She came
to England, made the acquaintance of Robert
Owen, and warmly espoused his principles.
In 1836 she married William E. Rose, and
went with him to reside in New York. Soon
after her arrival she began her fifty years
of reform work, speaking for anti-slavery,
religious liberty and woman's rights. She
sent her first petition to the New York Legis-
lature to give married women the right to
hold property in 1836, to which after a great
deal of trouble, she obtained five signatures!
And she continued petitioning till 1849, when
the law was enacted. Many times she ad-

[Column 2]

dressed the New York Legislature, a privilege
of American women which we do not yet enjoy
here. In spite of hardships and expense
(for she never made a charge or took a collec-
tion) she traveled in summer and winter, in
highways and byways, whenever there was an
opportunity to work, and always bad good
audiences and attentive listners. In America
she is ranked with Frances Wright, Harriet
Martineau and Lucretia Mott; American women
say they cannot estimate how much of the free-
dom they now enjoy they owe to this Polish woman
'Those who sat with her on the platform will
remember her matchless powers as a speaker,
and how safe they all felt while she had the
floor, that neither in manner, sentiment, argu-
ment nor repartee, would she in any way com-
promise the dignity of the occasion. As a
speaker she was pointed, logical and impas-
sioned. She not only dealt in abstract prin-
ciples clearly, but in their application touched
the deepest emotions of the human soul.'
	"One of her strongest characteristics was
the fearlessness and scorn of compromise with
which she advocated her principles."


