RESOLUTIONS OF RESPECT.
	We, the sisters of the Relief Society unanimously adopt
the following Resolutions to the memory of Sister Elizabeth
Lovell.
	Whereas, It has pleased our Heavenly Father to call
from our midst by the hand of death, our beloved sister
and friend; therefore be it,
	Resolved, that we recognize in the death of our sister,
the loss of a friend, and former treasurer of the Relief
Society.
	Resolved, That we esteem her goodness, patience and
uncomplaining endurance, as an example worthy of imita-
tion by the sisters of the Society.
	Resolved, that these Resolutions be spread on the
record of the Relief Society, and that we condole with
those called to mourn the loss of as good and kind a
friend as Sister Lowell.

	Rest in peace, dear Sister Lovell,
		Now your earthly labor's done
	You can join in sweet communion
		With the Father and the Son,
	You are worthy of their presence
		For you lived a noble life,
	Kind and faithful as a mother
		Ever faithful as a wife.

			MARY M. LYMAN, Secretary, R. S.


Training School for Nurses

     On the fifteenth of May, the Second Term of Dr.
Hughes' Training School for Nurses begins, a class
 of twelve (12) students completing their first term of
three months on the fourth of May. This is the
first Training School for Nurses established in
Utah, and the instruction given embraces the best
methods of teaching of the Eastern Schools, whose
systems have been thoroughly investigated by the
teacher. The purpose of this school is to give a
wider knowledge of waiting upon the sick, and all
the branches pertaining to nursing will be thorough-
ly discussed in the successive terms. The second
term will be held in Dr. Hughes' new residence, on
First West Street. Students desiring to enter, should 
make application as early as possible, so that ar- 
rangements can be made for securing text books. 
	TUITION,       -	  -         -   $25.00.
     Special arrangements can be made for Obstetrical
teaching. Address: 
M. P. Hughes,
P. O. Box 575.                               Salt Lake City, Utah.

