OF REBECCA JONES TO S. M. KIMBALL.

I have the view you sent me of the dear familiar place,
And memories come o'er me, which time cannot efface;
I see the loving tokens for the dear departed one,
Whose earthly love and anxious care for others weal is
	done.
I met her last and parted far, far away from home,
We little thought 'twould be the last while here on earth we
	roam;
And Clara too was with her, peace, peace to both I pray,
God grant they both have entered in, unto a brighter day.
I have sent her letters sent me, from California's shore,
I prized them very highly then, I'll prize them now the
	more,
As links of love that bind me unto a loving past,
Kind words of sympathy and hope, whose memory will
	last
I've been thinking of the many homes made brighter when
	she came,
Whose hours of glad reunion can never be the same.
Where there will be a vacant chair, 'till time shall be no
	more, 
And mother, sister, friend we meet upon the Golden Shore.

I've stood beside her in the dance, and by the bed of pain,
Her hands seemed never tired, neither the heart or brain;
But ever, ever striving, to comfort, cheer and bless,
A rock of strength and shelter in this world of sore dis-
	tress.


You say that you are lonely since she hath passed away—
How many, many loving hearts would fain have had her
	stay;
But He who knoweth best, hath said enough, she may
	have rest,
My Crown, her Cross, shall now replace in the Mansions
	of the blest.

I see upon the Picture of our dear old Hall, the Place
Where we looked for her in meeting, then the Tokens sad
	I trace;
That says her place is vacant, she has gone to meet her
	God,
Whose path through life in meekness, she hath humbly
	firmly trod.

Here too, I see a picture, made by a warm, true heart,
Now resting from his labors, Our Willie's work of Art,
He has left a living monument in cottage and in hall,
And will be missed by many, for he was loved by all.

Now I would send a flower from my home 'neath sunny
	sky.
In token of a friendship, that can never, never die;
A wreath twined all of Myrtle, place them upon each
	grave,
And may peace and love be with you, in His name who
	died to save.	HOPE.


