IN MEMORIAM.

	Mary Louise Booth, editor of Harper’s
Bazar, died at her residence, No. 101 Fifty-
ninth Street, New York, on the 5th inst, at 5
p.m. The immediate cause of her death was
pleurisy and obstruction of the lungs.
	Miss Booth was born April 19, 1831, at
Millville, now Yaphank, on the east end of
Long Island, where six generations earlier her
ancestor, John Booth, bought Shelter Island
from the Indians for 100 yards of calico. Her
father was a school teacher, and she acquired
under his care a remarkably fine education,
being one of the best French scholars in the
country. She did not remember learning to
speak or read French. She had read through
the Bible and Plutarch’s “Lives” before she
was five, mastered Racine in the original when
she was seven, and began to study Latin with
her father. She obtained her early education
at the district school, of which her father was
the teacher; afterward she passed through
several academies and seminaries of Long
Island. In 1844, her father removed to
Williamsburg, now East Brooklyn, as principal
of a public school. She became a teacher, but
her health failed and she relinquished the
position. She contributed tales and sketches
to various journals and magazines. While
yet in her teens she compiled "The Marble
Workers' Manual" and "The Clockmakers'
Manual"—books of a dry, masculine type, still
regarded as standard works. She rendered
rapidly into English the works of Eugene
Sue, Mery, Cousin, Marmier, Dumas and
Edmond About. While scarcely more than a
girl, she wrote the history of New York, in
two volumes, eliciting from Washington Irving
a letter of warm encouragement. A new edi-
tion appeared in 1880.
	During the Rebellion she did notable service
for the Union by translating works of noted
foreigners. In 1861 she got the advance sheets
of Gasparin's "Uprising of a Great People."
and rushed to Scribner's. "Yes," said the
astute caterer, "but the war will be over in a
month, and we can't get it out as soon as that."
She persisted. “If you will give me the copy
in a week, I’ll try it,” he said. She went
home, worked twenty hours out of every
twenty-four; in less than a week the copy was
all in hand, and in a fortnight the work was
out. It made a tremendous sensation, and did
much to rouse the North. Sumner and Lincoln
sent her letters of thanks. Thus she was en-
listed for the fight. She translated the works
of Cochin, Laboulaye, Martin, Comte du Mon-
talembert, Dupanloup, etc., from advance
sheets, which those authors sent to her.
Sumner wrote that Cochin’s words were "more
valuable to the cause than the Numidian
cavalry to Hannibal." She translated Labou-
laye's "Fairy Tales," and fifteen or twenty
other volumes, and when the Harpers started
their Bazar, in 1867, she naturally became its
editor. She devoted herself with character-


istic energy and industry to the condu t of
that journal, and it was due largely to her
efforts that it became an immediate and con-
tinued success. In business matters she was
keenly direct and business like, but in society
she was singularly graceful and winning, and
her Saturday evening reunions were always
attended by people prominent in the literary
world. Her amiable and illustrious character
and career will be to other women an inspira-
tion and a prophecy.—Woman's Journal.
		H. B. B.


