LETTER FROM SAMOA.
AUNUII, SAMOAN ISLANDS,
	Sunday, January 21st, 1889.
EDITOR EXPONENT:
	I received your interesting and ever welcome
papers of September and October, and can
truthfully say that I took more real pleasure
in reading the contents of the same, than I
ever experiened in reading the most interesting
book; allow me to thank you very much for
your kindness.
	I once heard a young missionary say, that
while on his mission, news, or in fact anything
from home, afforded him much pleasure and
was of great interest to him.
	We often realize that feeling where we are;
opening a new mission, far from our beauti-
ful mountain home, our dear relatives and
friends, among an uncivilized people; still we
have much to be thankful for; we are meeting
with success in our field of labor, the harvest
seems ripe, and it fills our hearts with joy and
satisfaction to find it so. Although at present
we are not doing as much as might be expected;
on account of the country being in a revolution-
ary state, and the fact that, as yet, we have
not mastered the language.
	We hope, that before long, the governmental
affairs of these islands will be in a more settled
condition; so that the minds of the people will
be open to receive something besides, “wars
and rumors of war.”
	We have a nice frame house built American
style, it is the only one of that style on this
island. The native houses are built with an
oval roof, supported by posts about four feet
apart. The space between the floor and roof,
which is from four to five feet, is left open, ex-
cept in case of storm. At such times shutters,
made of matting tied to the roof, can be let
down instantly around the entire house. The
floor consists of coral pebbles, covered with
mats. There is never but one room in a house;
small ropes are stretched across the room, a
little higher than one’s head; over which is a 
"siapo" or native cloth. This is rolled up in
the morning, and let down in the evening,
forming sleeping apartments, and at the same
time protecting the sleeper from the mosquitoes,
which are very numerous at all times, in this
warm climate.
	These people are not a progressive people,
the hot climate naturally causes them to lead
a lazy, indolent life; and as their daily food
grows without much labor, and their clothing
costs very little [because there is very little of
it] they do not have to do much manual labor.
	The Christian ministers have been working
among this people some fifty years, so we are
informed. Of course they have done consider-
able good, in their way; but the Lord, through
his servants, has to do the work over again,
because it was not done properly. By-the-by
a member of the London Missionary Society—
Mr. Clark—called to see us soon after our
arrival. He inquired if we expected to organize
a branch of our Church here. We answered
that we assuredly did, that we had traveled
over five thousand miles for that purpose. He
replied, and I have come over ten thousand
miles to stop you. Outside of his religious
views Mr. C--- seems quite a gentleman.
	This is the place where women are respected,
and have their rights. The men gather the
fuel, make the fires, cook all the food, and set
it out for their wives. In fact, the women do
very little but braid mats and fans, at which
they are experts. A few days ago, one of the
Samoan men told us that American men were
no good, they were bad for letting their wives
do the cooking. We told him the American
man had to work all day to get something  for
their wives to cook and wear. He became
quite indignant and said, Samoan men work
[Column 2]
too, still they do the cooking. We told him
he slept most of the day. They work from
about sun rise until eleven a. m., then sleep
until the cool of the evening. There are
many sick and we are kept quite busy admin-
istering to their wants, and relieving them of
their pain as much as possible. We find that
patience is a virtue, that it is good under all
circumstances, and as disciples of a patient
Savior, we strive to cultivate it. We find
this people kind hearted, but very childish,
and we have to exercise great patience with
them. I hope I have not wearied you, I realize
that I cannot put my thoughts together as
nicely as some; but we all have to make a 
beginning. 
