AWAKENING OF SPRING.

	"When rosy plumelets tuft the larch,
	And rarely pipes the mounted thrush;
	Or underneath the barren bush
	Flits by the sea-blue bird of March."

	The long, long winter is over, or in common
parlance, the first spring mouth is upon us, 
and though now and then the air is cold and
raw, and the light fleecy snow falls occasionally,
beautifying the landscape for a transitory
moment, yet we cannot but see that spring de
facto is about to pay us her annual visit.
Soon we shall have the sprightly, coy, artless
maiden whom we designate Spring, peeping
out from sunny nooks and corners with her
trailing garlands of green, and gladsome shin-
ing face, though now and then bedewed with
jeweled teardrops, yet all the more beautiful,
with the pleasing contrast of sunshine and
shade; and anon, with positive assurance of
her real designs, she will burst forth in fairy-
like beauty to gladden the universe. She is
heralded with the sweetest orchestra, to me, the
most finished music, surpassing the composition
of the finest masters. The trilling and quaver-
ing of the forest birds, never ceases to be won-
derful to the lover of nature. These songs of
the birds, and other evidences of springtime,
convey to us more than the reality—there is
something indefinable when we try to express
it in words, but of which we are quietly con-
scious within—for want of a better term, the
world declares it poetical sentiment, and as
such I accept it; knowing no more than the
rest of mankind how to define it.
	It is an inexpressible charm of sense and
sound, an exhilaration imparted to the soul, by
the sympathy of many unseen forces, and by
the languid softening of the air, lengthening
of the days, and the thousand beautiful things
that make their appearance in such a marvel
ous manner, through an unseen effort of our
mother earth, so joyful when these inanimate

[column 2]

beings spring to life, that the effect of this re-
newal is everywhere apparent, although vary-
ing in its intensity. One in intimate associa-
tion with the woods and fields, finds much
pleasure, poetry if you will, in the first indica-
tions of the bursting of the green leaf on the
bare bough. At this particular season of the
year, the young hemlock is artistically beauti-
ful, "lying almost flat upon the ground," like
a heavy carpet, richer in its designs than the
most elaborate patterns of the skillful manu-
facturer.
	There are many varieties of tree and leafy
shrub that are exceedingly beautiful when
bursting into leaf, and each of these might
form a separate subject. The graceful long
leaved willows that fringe the brooklets on the
river's edge; although superstitiously sugges-
tive of melancholy and traditional as funereal in
aspect and bearing, yet, in the poetic mind, are
associated even "sweetly and cheerfully;" for
instance, Tennyson to the "Lady of Shallott:"

	"Willows whiten, aspens quiver,
	Little breezes dusk and shiver
	Through the waves that run for ever,
	By the island in the river
		Flowing down to Camelot."

	The simple word willow to me is poetry,
musical and melodious.

	"Sing willow, willow, willow,
	Sing all a green willow, must be my garland."

Desdemona says:

		"My mother had a maid called Barbara;
	She was in love, and he she loved proved mad,
		And did forsake her, she had a song of willow;
		An old thing 'twas, but it expressed her fortune,
			And she died singing it."

	These little snatches of quaint songs, per-
petuate the tradition, and it may be that poets
love to be melancholy or are imbued with a
tinge of sadness which renders them happier.
Is this paradoxical? This sentiment is one of
the things of which words do not convey the
whole meaning.
	The reed is another of these sad and musical
plants and by its long peculiar leaves is said
to suggest the idea of inditing, which endears
it all the more to the heart of the poet. At
this season of the year, the reeds are a pale,
exquisitely tasteful yellow, and as the soft, cool
wind sways and bends them hither and thither,
they make pathetic music which is intensely
"sweet, but sad." Keats expresses this fanciful
sentiment concerning the reeds fancifully, and
it accords with the strain in which I am writ-
ing.

	*	*	*	how did we weep to find
	Naught but a lonely sighing of the wind
	Along the reedy stream, a half-heard strain;
	Full of sweet desolation, balmy pain."

	N. P. Willis gives a truly poetical definition
of the reed and the willow:

	"The reeds bent down the stream,
	The willow leaves, whose flowers the water
	Like a gentle nurse bears on its bosom,
	Quietly gave way, and leaned
	In graceful attitudes to rest."

	The reed is often used as illustrative of
weakness; always ready to bow beneath every
breath of authority, yielding and submissive,
as some of the "lords of creation" who are
compared to sturdy oaks, desire women to be.
But as I am not moralizing, I will refrain from
giving my views on this point.
	In some countries there are many flowers
that make their appearance early in the season.
In England, among wild flowers, the yellow
daffodils bloom in March; and this pretty blos-
som is a favorite flower with some of the poets
well known to fame. Wordsworth speaks
gracefully in verse of the floral splendor of the
daffodils haunting him, he says, "They flash

[Column 3]

upon him in the bliss of solitude," and
Herrick thus laments their too early disappear-
ance:

		"Fair daffodils, we weep to see
		You waste away so soon;
	And yet the early rising sun
		Has not attained its noon;
			Stay, stay
	Until the hasting day
			Has run
		But to the even song.
	And having prayed together, we
		Wlli go with you along."

	And O, the violets of spring! who does
not love them? Modest, dainty and fragrant.
Who does not appreciate their lovely sweet-
ness? The perfume is wafted to my senses
from far off years; or, as one writer has beauti-
fully expressed it, "like far-off reminiscenses
of youth." The approach of spring speaks
tenderly to me of lovely flowers and hanging
vines, of the sweet music of song-birds, and
glad hum of bees, of gay butterflies, of young
lambs skipping and calves bleating, and all
these are most welcome to one whose heart is
in sympathy with the pulse of nature. And
while admiring all these, the works of a Su-
preme Being, let us look up and adore the great
Creator, not only of that which we see, but of
the soul by which we sense and enjoy them.
Like the psalmist of old, one might well ex-
claim at this season, "Let the heavens rejoice,
and let the earth be  glad.  Let the field be joy-
ful and all that is therein; then shall all the
trees of the wood rejoice."
