WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


[Column 1]
	R. S., Y. L. M. I. A. & P. A. REPORTS
BEAVER STAKE.
	The Beaver Stake Relief Society conference
was held on Friday, March 1st, in the Latter-
day Saints meeting house, Beaver City, fore-
noon and afternoon.
	President Lucinda Howd presided.  There
were present representatives from the various
wards, Sister Ellen Lunt, stake president of
Relief Society of Iron County; President
Murdock and Counselors; Bishop Smith and 
other brethern, and quite a good showing of
the sisters. 

[Column 2]
	The verbal reports from the different presi-
dents showed a fair condition of each society.
A good work had been done the past winter in 
caring for the poor and sick. 	
	The great burden of the instructions from 
the different speakers was the training of our
children.  They should be taught to pray, and
that we have a prayer hearing God.  Teach
them faith in every principle of the Gospel,
and see that they keep good company.
	The necessity of progression, of humility
and dependence upon the Lord was dwelt upon.
The great mission of the sisters, and the many
good works they had performed were referred
to:
	Sister Lunt bore her testimong to the truth
of this work and the divinity of Celestial
Marriage.  Said she knew it would exalt every
man and woman who had entered into it with
pure hearts and had kept their covenants.
She also spoke of the good influence we should
carry with us, and gave some interesting re-
miniscences of her early life. 
	Brother Fotheringham spoke of the wheat
and tares growing together and the day of 
separation that is to come.  Said we would have
to be purified as gold seven times tried in the 
fire.  Referred to the trials and persecutions
we are undergoing, and said there were some
of the greatest heroines living now, that had
been upon the earth.  The speaker expressed
his pleasure in seeing and hearing President
Woodruff and Apostle Cannon speak to the 
people the previous Sunday in Salt Lake, and
thought the cloud that had been hanging over
the people so long, had lifted a little so we 
could get a glinpse of its silver lining. 
	The Stake and local officers of the Relief
Society were unanimously sustained.  The
choir sang "Glory to God on High" and bene-
diction pronounced by Robert Stoney, closed 
what had been a very enjoyable conference,
although not as numerously attended as others
which have been held in this Stake. 
	A spirit of peace and union prevailed dur-
ing the conference, and all who attended felt 
to rejoice. 
					LOUISA JONES,
			Stake Secretary, Relief Society.
UTAH STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Utah Stake 
was held in the meeting house Provo City,
March 1st, 1889.  Prest. Mary John presiding.
	Conference opened with singing and prayer;
reading of minutes etc., and reports from the 
different branches in the county.
	President Mary John thought we had con-
siderable to encourage us.  "Although it looks
rather gloomy at present, there is a good time
coming for the Saints."  Referred to the signs
of the times etc.
	Counselor Emily G. Cluff thought we should
all concentrate our thoughts in prayer that the
speakers may say something that will edify and
instruct.  Spoke of the similitude of our ex-
periences to that of our Savior while on this 
earth; reviewed our coming into these valleys,
and of the love existing among us as a people
at that time.  "We are and have been perse-
cuted, but if we are humble and prayerful we
will succeed; we should each have a testimony
of the truth for ourselves," etc.
	The presidents of the different branches
gave very satisfactory reports of those over 
whom they were called to preside.  Conference
adjourned till 2 p.m.
	Afternoon session.  Conference opened with
the usual exercises.  Sister Marilla M. Daniels
said:  "I want to bear my testimony to the 
truth of this work; if we live up to the light
we have received we will come off victorious.
We are to be perfected through suffering like 
our Savior, he never shrank from suffering al-
though he sweat great drops of blood.  We

[Column 3]
gain the good spirit by coming to meeting, and
we are stirred up to remembrance by so doing."
Spoke of the Primary and urged parents to
send their children to those meetings, their
boys as well as their girls.
	Sister Standring gave a good report of the 
Lehi Society and said:  "I realize that it is
through the goodness of God that we exist."
Spoke of laboring in the Manti Temple and of
the power of God manifested therein.  "I
know that God lives, and if we draw nigh unto
Him, He will draw nigh unto us."  Felt that 
the Lord was with us by his Holy Spirit to-
day; when we hear sisters bear their testimonies
to the truth of this work, we know they are in
the pathway of their duties.  We are passing
through a school of experience, and if we are
faithful we have the promise of returning to 
our Father's presence again to dwell with Him
for evermore.  We are called to great responsi-
bilities and shall have to render an account
for what has been placed upon us; let the
kingdom of God be first in our thoughts; the
power of God is gained through knowledge;
the Savior has passed through what we are pass
ing through;  This kingdom will never be
thrown down and we will be made to rejoice.
Let us keep our covenants that we may receive
the words "well done good and faithful ser-
vant."
	Brother Allred, by invitation of President
John, spoke to the sisters.  Said he felt blessed
in meeting with the sisters; but if he should
attempt to refer to the good things that had 
been said, he would have to repeat all that he
had heard for it had been a stream of good
things springing up unto everlasting life;
endorsed what had been said in reference to
sending our children to the Primary meetings;
thought it the duty of parents not only to send
their children but to go with them occasionally
themselves.  Knew the Lord would be well
pleased if we would obey "the word of wisdom."
The Lord is trying to unite us for He has
said: "if ye are not one ye are not mine" etc.
	Anna K. Smoot followed with some truly
appropriate remarks on various subjects, after
which Prest. John adjourned the conference for
three months.  She felt the spirit of God had 
been with us through this conference etc.
Benediction by Brother Graves.
		CAROLINE DANIELS, Secretary.
SALT LAKE STAKE.
	The Quarterly conference of the Relief
Society of this Stake was held in the Four-
teenth Ward assembly rooms, in this City,
Thursday, March 4, 1889, Mrs. M. I. Horne
presiding.  On the platform were also seated
President Zina D. H. Young, Counselor, B. W.
Smith and the Stake secretary.  Conference
opened by singing "Once more we come before
our God," prayer by Mrs. E. Howard; sing-
ing, "Where the voice of friendship's heard."
Roll called and seventeen Presidents eight
Counselors, and two Secretaries responded.
Minutes of the previous conference were read
and accepted, also reports from 42 branches of
this Stake.
	President Zina D. H. Young was the first
speaker, she made many excellent suggestions
in regard to the various duties of the society,
and spoke especially about the storing of
wheat; thought the integrity and good works 
of the sisters a matter of rejoicing. 
	President Horne read a letter from an Elder
in England soliciting means for a distressed
family in Rainham England, her native town;
she asked the sisters to help in this matter.
She spoke of her visit to the penitentiary the
day previous, to see her son, Bishop Joseph
Horne, who was there suffering imprisonment
for conscience sake.  Made other remarks
appropriate to the occasion.
	Counselor B. W. Smith spoke of the en-


couraging reports that had been received, and
that she would like all who could afford it to
pay one dollar yearly toward the Deseret
Hospital. “President Taylor in his lifetime
enjoined it upon us to sustain this institution,”
said all is well in Zion if we try with all our
might mind and strength to do right.
	President Horne referred to the Stake
Conference held recently and said “If we have
the spirit of God we will rejoice that we have
passed through adversity and come out safe,
having oil in our lamps; the Lord takes notice
of our works, all we do is recorded in the Book
of Life.” Singing, Doxology. Benediction
by Mrs. M. W. Wilcox.
	Afternoon session. Opened with singing
“Our God we raise to Thee,” prayer by Mrs.
Mary S. Clark; singing, “For the strength of
the hills we bless Thee.” President Horne
then addressed the sisters on very interesting
topics, and was followed by the presidents of
the Relief Society of Riverton, South Jordan,
Draper, Big Cotton Wood, Sandy, Union,
Herriman and Brighton. Mrs. Mary L. Clark
of Farmington, Mrs. Mary E. Porter of
Granger, Mrs. Mary A. Freeze President of
the Y. L. M. I. A., Mrs. M. A. Mousley of
Bluffdale, Mrs. Susan S. Young each spoke a
short time, giving some incidents and experi-
ences, and bearing strong testimonies to the
truth of the Gospel; their remarks were re-
plete with good instructions and exhortation
to good works.
	President Horne read over again the letter
from England and a free donation of fifty
dollars was given by the sisters present.
	Mrs. Z. D. H. Young spoke of kindness and
wisdom, the storing of wheat, and home manu-
facture; urged all to be self sustaining; hoped
to see efforts made in the silk manufacture,
the raising of cocoons, etc.; thought it would
be a great source of wealth in this community.
Desired the sisters might walk in the light of
the Gospel continually and obtain favor with
Heaven.
	Counselor B. W. Smith spoke of the necessity
of a true testimony and that we should teach
our children to observe the golden rule, to
do to others as we wish them to do to us.
Alluded to the coming of the Savior and the
preparation necessary; thought we should be 
moderate in all things and set a good example
for others to follow.
	Conference adjourned for three months.
singing, “We thank Thee O God for a Prophet.”
Benediction by Mrs. Elizabeth Stevenson.
				E. HOWARD, Secretary.


