ARTICLE I.
     This Association shall be called the Woman
Suffrage Association, of Sevier County, Utah.
ARTICLE II.
     The object of the Association shall be to work
for the enfranchisement of all women, without re-
gard to party, sect, or creed, and to take such
steps as shall seem to be wise and expedient for
the political advancement of this county.
ARTICLE III.
     The officers of this Association shall be a Presi-
dent, three Vice-Presidents, a Secretary, Corres-
ponding Secretary, and Treasurer, with an Exe-
cutive Committee of not less than five.
ARTICLE IV.
     All persons wishing to become members of this
Association, must pay an initiation fee of twenty-
five cents annually, and must give their names
with the money to the Secretary, who will present
them in the order of business, to the next regular
meeting for admission.
ARTICLE V.
     The officers of this Association, with the Execu-
tive Committee, shall have power to change or
amend the By-Laws and Regulations at any exe-
cutive session, and shall then submit them to the
regular meeting, where they may be adopted by
a majority vote.
ARTICLE VI.
     The Executive Committee shall devise plans of
work suited to the development and progress of
members of the Association, and co-operate
together with the members in encouraging young
people to speak, write essays, and discuss ques-
tions upon political matters, and such other sub-
jects as relate thereto, and invite those already
interested in suffrage, and encourage them to
become acquainted with the objects of the organi-
zation.
ARTICLE VII.
     All official papers and documents shall be
signed by the President and Secretary, or, in the
absence of the President, by the Vice-President
next in order.  And all official correspondence
must be signed by the Chairman of the Executive
Committee, and the Corresponding Secretary.
ARTICLE VIII.
     Regular meetings of the Association shall be
held once a month, and such business transacted
as shall be brought to the attention of the meet-
ing by the Executive Committee, or other officers,
after which miscellaneous business, or discussion
will be in order.
ARTICLE IX.
     A punctual attendence of the members is re-
quested in order to further the interests and pro-
mote harmony in all plans and methods of or-
ganized work.
     After the adoption of the By-Laws and Regu-
lations, Mrs. Elizabeth Bean expressed in fitting
terms, her ideas in regard to the Association.
     Mrs. H. Wright moved that an account of the or-

[column 3]
ganization be published in the Richfield Advocate.
Carried.  The ladies came forward and were en-
rolled members of the Association.
     An adjournment was moved and seconded, and
meeting was adjourned until an appointment
should be published by the Secretary.
							E. B. BEAN.
Richfield, March 20th, 1889.


