J. EDWARD PFEIFFER.
		    ————
	Through the Woman's Journal and other
papers we have learned of the death of Jurgen
Edward Pfeiffer.  The gentleman had been in
ill health for the last two years, although his
friends had good hopes of his recovery.  The
papers speak of him as a man of “remarkable
energy and promptitude” in business and in all
his transactions in life.  His success in mer-
cantile affairs was largely due to these qualities
of his character.  Mr. Pfeiffer was a German,
a native of Altona—but went to England when
a young man, nineteen years of age; the papers
state that not long after he went to England
“he was made executor of his father’s will, and
voluntarily gave up his own share in that
testament to the advantage of his relations
resolved to owe everything to his own exer-
tions."  He created the China branch in a
great London house, and has amassed an im-
mense fortune.
	The home of Mr. and Mrs. Pfeiffer as des-
cribed by them to the present writer was a most
delightful place, and one could almost fancy it
from their own description to be a perfect
model of an English gentleman’s home.  Miss
Alice Stone Blackwell, of the Woman’s Journal
describes it just as we had pictured it in our
own mind. “A glimpse of fairy land—the
great quiet garden, with its nicely kept Eng-
lish turf, the long green walks, the delicately
contrasted foliage of the shrubbery, the multi-
tude of roses, and the row of huge aspen trees,
their trunks overgrown with ivy and looking
like massive pillars.  Mr. and Mrs. Pfeiffer
had themselves laid out this garden, originally
rough waste ground over which they rode on
horseback.” Their visit to the United States
was in 1884, and they visited this city in Octo-
ber—called at the office of the WOMAN'S 
EXPONENT on the 20th, we accompanied them
to the Lion House and other places, introduced
them to Sister Eliza and others.  The next day
they dined at the Gardo House by invitation
of President Taylor—and spent the evening of
the 22d at our home, a few friends having
been invited to meet them.
	Mrs. Emily Pfeiffer is a writer and poet of
considerable celebrity writes for the Contem-
porary Review and other standard English
journals, she is a staunch woman suffragist,
and has written some very excellent articles on
the subject.  She handles the matter differently
from most of the advocates of the cause, and
gives it some literary prestige.  Her article in
the Contemporary Review of February, 1881,
entitled “Woman’s Claim,” is one of the best
if not the best essay on the question of equal-
ity of the sexes we have ever heard.  That
our readers may have some idea of its merits,
we will quote one or two paragraphs.
	“A great deal has been said, and still being
said, about the alteration of the relations of
the sexes, which might be expected to result
from any extension of the franchise in the
manner demanded.  I own I find it difficult to
respond to these fears with becoming serious-
ness.  If there be one thing of which Nature
is careful, she is careful of her types, and while
that “likeness in unlikeness,” subsists which is
at the base of physical attraction, there is
little fear of sexual relations being either 
reversed or annulled.  So long as the maternal
function continues tenderly to fashion the
hearts of women, so long as the voices of
men retain their resonance, and until their


bodies lose their superior power of action and
endurance, and their capacity for food and
sleep, so long will there be little doubt that the
saying of our neighbor, “La barbe impose” will
remain substantially correct.  These quasi-
material causes might be out of place, where
abstract justice answered to a rigid logic, but
in this world of incalculable movements of
checks and counter-checks, they present them-
selves as something more than the “windage”
for which in all reasoning we are bound to
allow.  It would seem that the alarmists
above mentioned are reckoning without that
great primal force which binds together man
and woman and for which the higher develope-
ments are forover forging stronger if more
spiritual links.  I would bid them take cour-
age in remembering the comparative stability
of the operations of nature, judged by the
shortness of the days of man; in any case, to
plant a quiet hope in the largeness of these
grants of time demanded for the changes she
is supposed to effect.”
     After elaborating still further upon this
subject in the most effective style of reasoning
and referring to the time “when physical force
ruled the world,” etc., and a woman who had no
man to marry her was forced to seek the refuge
of the cloister,” and dwelling upon the condi-
tions of the sexes under those circumstances,
she says: “But now a day has come when if
the “seven women” of the prophet would not
“take hold on one man” some of them must
be resigned to belong to themselves, and pre-
pared to stand up and fight the battle of life
alone.”
*	*	*	* “The rate-paying, law-abiding
property-holding, professional, or working
woman is suffered to have no voice in the regu-
lation of the taxes, or the laws under which
she must live or die; and if they would influ-
ence them at all, they must have recourse to
the nearest man—possibly her brother, coach-
man or gardener, or the laborer in her fields—
as the stalking horse of her own unrecognized
personality.”
     She then treats eloquently the state of de-
pendent tutelage of woman etc., and quotes
from Shakespeare:

	"There is a divinity which shapes our ends,"

and reasons further thus: "Had it so continued
that every woman in these Isles could have
“dropped into the jaws” of some one man and
so “ceased” its a social unit, it is highly prob-
able that no word would have been heard
among us of any further suffrage."
      "But the stream of tendency which sets in
the way of woman's advance is irresistible, and
the vital rational principles incorporated in her
claim, could in the end win alone in the
struggle with material resistance."

			"The soul of things is strong;
	A seedling's heaving heart has moved a stone."

	"The march of civilization is one sure, if slow,
progression from the ruleof the strongest to the
equal right devine, and it will not stop short of
its legitimate end."


