AUGUST 1962 ahsssonsdg Nowenibie The Little Things Dorothy J]. Roberts When the shadow of a great cloud falls Ominous, across the day, We think then of the little things, Turning the mind another wav. A moment's respite in the dark, A recess taken from the pain, That we may bend more graciously And lift our burdens up again. Once I saw a daisy grow Against a giant boulder's side, And a gnarled mahogany ascend A wind-torn mountainside. Once I paused, three pigeons came, And walked along the gutter rows; Gray, the pavement, wings, and sky, _ All, save the pigeons' coral toes, And once I watched a feather fall But a moment, and the mind goes on, More willingly after a rest. The Cover: Field of the Shepherds, Near Bethlehem Color transparencies on the cover and in the article, "Jerusalem, City of Peace," were taken by Dr. O. Preston Robinson Frontispiece: Mount Wilson in the San Juan National Forest, Colorado Photograph by David Muench Art Layout: Dick Scopes Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press TOM I wish to give you a great big "Thank You" from all of us here in the newest (May 21, 1962) stake of Zion, the Boston Stake. We all eagerly await The Relief Society Magazine each month. The serial stories, as well as the short stories, are wonderful. Every part of the Magazine holds its own special charm — the poetry, the lessons, and hearing about the Church throughout the world warms the hearts of everyone. —Miss Joyce V. Bartlett Braintree, Massachusetts My dear mother, Mrs. N. E. Nielsen, gave me a year's subscription to The Relief Society Magazine as a birthday gift. I am delighted with the material the Magazine contains. I especially like the poetry. In the May issue I liked the frontispiece poem "On a May Morning," by Ouida Johns Pedersen, "Sonnet for a Somber Day," by Evalyn Miller Sandberg, and "The Sentinel," by Zara Sabin. "Little Teamstress,' by Frances C. Yost, and "Dare to Be Different," by Mabel Law Atkinson are my favorite stories in the May issue. ''Hand to the Plow," by Ilene H. Kingsbury, also has a commanding interest. —Remelda N. Gibson Tooele, Utah I have enjoyed the lovely writings in The Relief Society Magazine for many years. I couldn't possibly keep house without it. There are so many helps for everything, especially in bemg a good wife, mother, and neighbor. I have used the editorials many times in giving talks and also in helping my children with their assignments. —Shirley J. Brown Casper, Wyoming Page 554 bar and Hear ——— Many items in The Relief Society Magazine for May were outstanding. "How to Give a Magazine to Someone Who Is Ill" (by Evelyn Witter) is very well written and so true. We should all follow the subtle advice in it, the advice of the poet who said, "The gift without the giver is bare." Then there is that lovely poem "Wait for Me, Sun" (by Mabel Jones Gabbott), a poem with a new lilt. And the poem "I Love You" (by Florence S. Glines), different and heartwarming. I never had a sister, so I made copies of this poem for folks more fortunate than I. Then, on Mother's Day, my sister-in-law sent this poem to me, so I have the love of a sister, even if I missed having one. I hope we may see many new names in the Magazine and many more fine contributions from the old names. —Agnes Just Reid Firth, Idaho I love every issue of The Relief Society Magazine. It is wonderful reading to sandwich into my busy days of caring for our six young children. —Jean Longhurst Connell, Washington Last December my wife was given a subscription to The Relief Society Magazine. As soon as she has finished reading this wonderful little Magazine, then I get to read it. When her subscription runs out, you can be suse that a renewal to the Magazine will be one of her Christmas presents. "Sow the Field With Roses" (serial by Margery S. Stewart, concluded in June 1962) was a heart warming story, and we look forward to seeing more of Mrs. Stewart's stories. —Charles L. Collins III Buena Vista, Colorado THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1962 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Marianne C. Sharp Editor Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor Belle S. Spafford General Manager 
August Vol. 49, Number 8
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES She Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Part V — Margaret McIntire Burgess oon nose nen ee ennnennenece son -neneeeeneenerenneesecerenevenscoreececersceecnsceeeceeecuseaconeresseeasPreston Nibley 556 My Shadow oon eeee ee cece escent nee se nee eee sete ceneeeueneueteseeesesnneeecesneeesessnenneeeseeesCelia Larsen Luce 573 Sunday Morning on Temple Hill oo 0 c. CcccccccctcccceececcscecceeveeeceeeveeeeeceeceveeseseoedoeesMabel Luke Anderson 578 Jerusalem, City of Pee oii ccccccccccecccesecececeetserenseecenseeteesseeseeescaneneeeseveeeChristine H. Robinson 589 FICTION Company Best oo. U cecccccccecccceeceeccececesceceneenccescessnesececseesnenseeatecescensnesenensnecseeeneessnsentensLael Jensen Littke 559 Out of the Wilderness — Chapter 2 ooiiiiciccececcccccccceccneecececseeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeesseveeseteceeeneesShirley Thulin 566 Hand to the Plow — Part IV — Dedication 22.0 celle cette ee tee eectsIlene H. Kingsbury 580 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far ooiiececcc cece ccesnccececececcecescnsencacencesnacescecenseesececnneccsnuenseseeceneececceseececscenececstenacesceesceneeseeeseeneesseeteees 554 Bim y YEGTS AGO.. N. N. N.-..-n-en-cenenececencceoeneosnsnenesssencossscesecssssensvenscsacsenecnsseensesesensneesesereserceeeesnssacssecesesereseteneeeneneneneetee 584 Woman's Sphere ooo ieee eeeeeecceeeee cece eee eeeeteee eee eeceeeecereenceeesececceesceeecenecececsencemeaneeeecescesaeeeRamona W. Cannon 585 Editorial: In the Family There Is Strength 20 000 0 0000coceceececceete cece ceeeeeetteeeeeee eeVesta P. Crawford 586 Notes to the Field: The Annual General Relief Society Conference 222 ee eee ceceeeeeeceeeeeteeeee 588 Relief Society Magazines for 1961 Available for Binding 0002000. 588 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 02 00. 0 0cccccccceecceeeeeeeceeeeeceeeceeeeeceeeeeeesHulda Parker 603 Birthday Congratulations 222 cccecceccnsceceecencececeuccesscesnceceeccensceceneeesscesececeseeessesesteccesnscenssseeeneescesecceceeceneceees 632 FEATURES FOR THE HOME Vacation By the Dery ono. EoceccceeccecececceceeneeteeeceeceeceeeeeeseceeeccecseeeeeesessensessocneanaasesceceeconeesBetty G. Spencer 565 My Show oonnnei nec eeeecceceeesceccceccecceceeceececencecceccecececeaneesceneecesesesececsessscssesenseeeceescenecensnenececseceCelia Larsen Luce 573 My Family Likes All Kinds of Fruit — Just So They Are Peaches Vilate R. McAllister 574 "Thou Shalt Not Be Proud'? Ooo. CccecceccenccecceececscececccencescecseeecesensecacecessaseneneesMartha Tucker Fugate 577 Family Desserts 20 2.0 c.: ccccecccceccosscucenececcecceceeseececesseseneseseessseseesecaseeseesssetsvsneassesevecesessenneceeeesesMabel Harmer 597 Make a Drip-Dry Apron oo cccccocscsessssscsnessseoesesereseresessessssessesestsesessssestnsseiseee. Janet W. Breeze 600 Clara Partridge Stevens — Artist With Needle and Brush _2 o. Cccccec cccccecssssscececeececseseececcseseeeeecesnreesees 602 LESSONS FOR NOVEMBER Theology — "Engaged in a Good Case' ooieci. CececeecececececcececeescsccescacecececeeteseseeseseeseeesRoy W. Doxey 610 Visiting Teacher Messages — '''He Who Doeth the Works of Righteousness..." esc an sac ccnnernnrennnnnecnscecccaeervevenecseevereeseeserecceceenancesizesChristine H. Robinson 615 Work Meeting — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well Organized — Part II EREVirginia F. Cutler 617 Literature — Henry David Thoreau — Individualist 2.0.0 ccccccccccececeeseseeseeeseeseeeBriant S. Jacobs 619 Social Science — Divine Law and Human Welfare o c ccccce-cemcesccscsseseseconeneneseesneseeeAriel S. Ballif 625 POETRY The Little Things — Frontispiece setescsnseseeceseserseessaseeeeseee-DOrothy J. Roberts 553 Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. C 1962 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20c a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 555 Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian *The portrait of the Prophet Joseph Smith reproduced on the opposite page W. Painted by Alvin Gittins. The original painting hangs in the board room of the Chur Office Building in Salt Lake City, Utah. Page 556 _of Mrs. Burgess, that the followin Ri | lN The Relief Society Magazine, * for January 1918, there is a brief sketch of the life of Mrs. Margaret McIntire Burgess, of St. George, Utah, written by herself. In this sketch she relates that she was born in the State of Pennsylvania in 1837, and that, about the time of her birth, her parents were converted to the Mormon religion through the efforts of a young missionary named Erastus Snow. Then, in the year 1840, the father sold the family possessions in Pennsylvania, and with his wife and three children, moved to Nauvoo, Illinois, the headquarters of the Church. "When we arrived in Nauvoo," Margaret wrote, "our things were stored in a large frame building, unfinished, owned by a gentleman b the name of George Telling, bein on the corner of Main and Parl streets. Shortly afterwards my fath bought the building and had 1 finished up comfortably, and lived there until the general expul sion of the Saints to the West." It was while the family resid in Nauvoo, during the childhoo interesting events took place, whic she relates as follows: "We were close neighbors to th Prophet's family, and very intimate, too. The Prophet was often in our home for short visits. One morning he came in and noticed I had a piece of flannel around my throat. He inquired if my throat was sore. Mother told him it was, and she was afraid it was the mumps. He called me to him and took me upon his lap, then took the flannel o 558 and asked mother for the oil. He anointed my throat with the oil and then administered to me. I knew I was well, as I got down from his lap after which I felt no more sore throat—another proof of his tender loving heart. "One morning as we were on our way to school, my brother and I were forced to walk in some very muddy places as it had rained the previous night. 'The school was down near the river and there was one very bad place we had to go through where we got stuck fast, and I began to cry, as did my little brother. I thought I would surely never get out, but on looking up, we saw the Prophet coming right for us. The crying soon ceased. He carried me out first and then my brother. He took his handkerchief out of his pocket, wiped the tears from our eyes and cleaned the mud off our shoes, all the time speaking comforting words to us, sending us on our way rejoicing, at the same time pointing out a safer way to get to the school house. Oh, our beloved Prophet, how deep were his sympathies and how his kind _ heart yearned to do good. "Now let me tell you of another incident before I stop. My mother had twin baby girls, and Aunt Emma, as we called her (the Prophet's wife) had been confined and her baby had died.* Soon after the death the Prophet came in one morning and said, 'Sister McIntire, I have come to borrow one of your babies, and mother exclaimed, 'Why, Brother Joseph, what do you want with one of my babies?' "Well,' he replied, 'I want one of them for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 my wife to comfort her only for a time. He talked with mother a while and she finally told him he could have one baby through the day time if he would bring it back nights, so the bargain was made and the Prophet smiled with gratitude. "The twins were so much alike that they could be scarcely told apart, but, of course, mother knew and their dispositions were not alike —one was a quick little thing and the other was mild. My mother would set them in the double cradle, made high at each end and low in the middle, and give each some playthings, and the quick one would take all the things away from the mild one. 'They were dressed exactly alike. "One morning when the Prophet — came for the baby, mother reached him the other baby. He took it and looked at it, kissed it and handed it back and said, 'Not my little Mary,' so mother reached him little Mary. He had always taken the little mild one—her name was Mary and the other one was Sarah. "The Prophet would always bring the baby up himself at night. One night he did not come as usual and mother went down and found the baby was crying. Brother Joseph was sitting by the fire trotting it. He had it wrapped up in a little silk quilt, preparatory to starting out with it. When mother went in it reached its hands to her. When she took it the baby soon was still. When mother started back the Prophet took the baby from her and walked up home with her. When Aunt Emma's health returned, our baby came home to stay." *The Prophet's son Don Carlos was born June 13, 1840, and died in August 1841. Company Best Lael Jensen Littke 4 OW don't forget," Molly said, as she cleared the breakfast dishes from the table, "the hamburger is thawing on the third shelf of the refrigerator, and there's fruit for a nice salad. You can fix the hamburger any way you want, and then cook some rice or something." Sixteen-year-old Lois grinned. "Better make it potatoes, Mother," She said. "Remember what happened last time I cooked rice? I thought a cup of it uncooked looked like nothing at all, so I cooked the whole package." "A person isn't likely to forget a kitchen full of cooked rice," laughed Molly. "All right, make it potatoes.' She glanced at the clock on the kitchen wall. "If I hurry, I'll have time to do the breakfast dishes before I go." "Tll do them," said Lois. "You run along. Grandma Feeney will be expecting you. I think she likes to have you take care of her better than anyone else, and I don't blame her." "Flatterer," said Molly. "Now, are you sure you can manage dinner and everything by yourself? You can fix you and Ted and the twins a little snack when you get home from school, so you can all last until dinnertime. Daddy will be home about six, and I should be here about six-thirty." "Don't worry, Mother, I'll take care of everything." Lois turned the hot water on the dishes and then cleared her throat. "Mother," she said in her I-doubt-if-yow'll-approvebut-there's-no-harm-in-trying — voice, "may I use the best china and silver and crystal and everything?" "Whatever for?" asked Molly. "What's the occasion?" Lois shrugged. "No occasion. I just think it would be a lot more fun to get dinner, if I could use the pretty things." She held up one of the breakfast plates. "This everyday stuff is so chipped and everything." "It's just fine for the family. You know the china is our company best." "But we never use it. When Uncle Dave and Aunt Bea were here last month, we used our everyday stuff." "They didn't mind," laughed Molly. "They're just family." 'And when Kathy came over to spend the night with me, we didn't use it either. She was company. Whom are we expecting to come to use it, the President of the United States?" "Our everyday dishes are just fine,' said Molly. "I worked so hard to get that china, piece by piece, and I don't want the twins breaking it." "Aw, Mom," said Lois, "it would be so well, kind of romantic to Page 559 560 use the best things. It would make the hamburger taste like filet mignon." MOLLY grinned at her daughter. "My stars, a person needs a degree in psychology to understand sixteen-year-olds nowadays. Now you do as I say." She picked up her purse and the crocheting she was taking with her. "T've really got to rush. Sister Fletcher has been there with Grandma Feeney all night and I'm sure she's anxious to leave. Goodbye now." She kissed the gitl's cheek and hurried out of the house. | Walking toward Grandma Feeney's house, she smiled fondly at the romantic notions of a sixteen-yearold. The best china for hamburgers, indeed. There was no place for chipped dishes and old tarnished silverware in the bright dreams of a young girl. Lois didn't know yet what it was like to work hard to get nice things, or she would know why Molly was reluctant to use the company best china. Molly remembered only too well the difficult days of low income and high expenses when she and David were first married. Slowly, over the years, one piece at a time, she had bought the lovely dinnerware, the sterling silver, and the crystal she was so proud of today. It had seemed so important to have something really nice. She supposed that Lois thought she was as old and crotchety as Grandma Feeney, but she was a good girl. And, speaking of Grandma Feeney, thought Molly, she'd better speed up alittle bit. Sister Fletcher would be more than ready to leave after a night with the old lady. Grandma RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 Feeney wasn't exactly the smiling, co-operative patient envisioned in their home nursing demonstrations last year. 'To be downright truthful, she was a real trial sometimes, or so most of the sisters thought. Molly was of the opinion that she herself would probably act the same way in the same circumstances. Here Grandma Feeney was, at eighty-two, lying in bed after a serious illness, waiting to be moved to a nursing home, and depending on the Relief Society sisters to care for her since she had no family left. Her husband had passed away eleven years before, and "Grandma" was only an honorary title, since her only child, a daughter, had died of scarlet fever when she was seventeen. I don't blame her a bit for acting as she does, Molly said to herself. S she expected, Grandma Feeney was fretting when she arrived. "A body works day and night for eighty years," she was telling Sister Fletcher, probably for the twentieth time that moring, "and _ then kerblam! Something wears out, and you just fall apart like the Wonderful One Hoss Shay. You've heard the poem about the Wonderful One Hoss Shay, haven't you, Sister Jones?" "Sister Fletcher," said that good lady, also probably for the twentieth time, "you know I'm not Sister Jones, Grandma Feeney." "Guess I just forgot," said Grandma Feeney. "But I do remember the 'Wonderful One Hoss Shay.' I could still say the whole thing off by heart if a body was to ask me." She turned faded blue eyes on Molly as she came through the bedroom door. "You've heard of the "Won- COMPANY BEST derful One Hoss Shay,' haven't you, Sister Molly Andrews?" "At least she remembers your name," whispered Sister Fletcher. "Why, come to think of it," Molly said to Grandma Feeney, "I don't believe I've heard that poem for a long time. [I'll let you recite it for me just as soon as I say goodbye to Sister Fletcher here. I'll be right back." "Honest to goodness," whispered Sister Fletcher, as she gathered up her belongings in the small parlor, "sometimes I just want to scream. I think she just plagues me for the joy of it." "Oh, I'd probably be the same way," said Molly, "if I had to be there on that bed day and night and didn't have any family to worry about me." Sister Fletcher smiled. "You have a good heart, Molly. Well, Pll turn her over to you." She threw a sweater over her shoulders, picked up her purse and knitting, bade Molly goodbye, and left. "Grandma Feeney," said Molly, going back into the bedroom, "will you recite that poem for me now?" THE faded eyes sparkled a little. "Aw," said Grandma Feeney, "you know I just do that to bother some of the ladies a little. Some of them can hardly wait for their time here to get over with, and I guess I just tease them a little for entertainment. Just to get their dander up, I guess." "My nine-year-old twins do the same thing to me sometimes." "All nght, Molly Andrews, I know what you're trying to say to me," said Grandma Feeney. "Sure you do," answered Molly. 561 "And you want to know something? You're right nice company when you want to be." Grandma Feeney sighed. "It's just that I get so tired of lying here all the time. I have worked so hard most of my life, and it seems like a big waste of time to lie here. I'm just an old woman with nothing left to enjoy." "You're a woman who has earned a rest," said Molly. "Now, since you've already had your breakfast, well change your bedclothes and comb your hair, then maybe Ill read to you if you'll be good." She looked around the little bedroom. "Where is it you keep your sheets?" Grandma Feeney indicated a large cedar chest standing in the corner. "That was my hope chest," she said proudly. "I had it filled to the brim with pretty things when I married my Tom. I keep my sheets in there so they'll smell nice." "All right," said Molly, opening up the big chest. "I'll just dig some out, and we'll have you all changed in a jiffy." In the chest she found a variety of rough and rather ragged sheets. "These have certainly seen better days," she said, holding one of them up. "Just like me," said Grandma Feeney. "They're plenty good for mie." "Tll see if I can find some in better shape," said Molly, digging deep into the chest. Near the bottom, she came upon several pairs of pillowcases neatly folded. Lifting them out, she saw they were all delicately embroidered and resplendent with frothy crocheted edgings. She dug into the chest again and came up with four 562 sheets, also handsomely decorated with crocheted edgings. '"CARANDMA Feeney," she said, "IT struck a real gold mine here." She held up the prettiest of the sheets, one which had forget-menots embroidered on its border, next to a wide crocheted edge. "This is what we'll put on your bed today." "No, we won't," exclaimed Grandma Feeney. "I wouldn't think of it. Those are my company best. I'm not going to use them." "Whom are you expecting for company, the President of the United States?" asked Molly. A tiny memory of Lois saying exactly the same thing that morning fluttered across her mind. "Those are my trousseau things," said Grandma Feeney, "and I've kept them all these years. I am not going to use them now. When I think of all the work I put in on those things when I was a young girl waiting for Tom to come back from his mission, my fingers just ache. Annie Olsen had a bigger trousseau when she married Ed Johnson, but everybody in town said I had the prettiest. And I don't aim to use those things now." "Good gracious, Grandma Feeney, haven't you used them at_ all?" "No, sirree,' the old lady said with spirit. "That nice material wasn't so easy to get in those days. Unbleached muslin sheets were plenty good for the family to use, and these were for company best." The frail hands plucked at the delicate embroidery. "I guess we never did get much company." "Well, then, we'll just pretend that you're company, and we'll use them right now." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 Despite the old woman's protests, Molly expertly changed the sheets, lifting the thin body as she had been taught in the home nursing course. When she had finished, she found the prettiest of the pillowcases, a pair with appliqued pansies on the edge. "Not those,' pleaded Grandma Feeney, "why those were Tom's favorites. You never saw a man for admiring nice things like Tom did. And Ellie Mae... You know, that was my girl that died... She used to want to sleep on them. She said it would be like sleeping in a pansy bed. You know how romantic young girls are.", "TI know," said Molly, thought fully. "You put them right back in that chest, Molly Andrews." "Nonsense," said Molly, "I'm going to put them on your pillows, and while you lie on them you can think back about when you were young and sewing on them and how much you loved your Tom." Grandma Feeney's eyes softened. "T did those while Tom was on his mission. I used to write him letters about the nice things we would have in our home when we got married. And I was true to him all the while he was away, Molly Andrews. I never even looked at another young man." She chuckled. "Although Gus Horner was always asking me to go to dances with him. Guess that's hard to imagine, looking at me now, isn't it?" "You just let me get your hair combed now, Grandma Feeney," said Molly, bustling about looking for a hairbrush, "and you'll look just as young and pretty as you did COMPANY BEST then. Why, you'll look so nice that when Dr. Roberts comes this afternoon he'll say, "What is a beautiful young gitl like you doing lying around like this?' " Grandma Feeney laughed. "T feel like a queen lying here in my very best sheets with this old head on my prettiest pillowcases. Just like a queen." By the time Molly had finished brushing her hair, she was nodding sleepily. "Molly Andrews," she said drowsily, taking Molly's hand, "I want you to have all my nice things in that chest when I go. I haven't got chick nor child to leave them to, and you're the only person I would want to have them. After the work ] put in and all, I don't want them handed out to just anybody. I want you to take them." Molly stroked the old woman's forehead gently. "Why, thank you, Grandma Feeney. I don't know when anyone's done anything so nice to me." "Imagine me sleeping in my company best sheets," smiled Grandma Feeney. "A body forgets how nice it feels. I sure wish now I had let Ellie Mae sleep on these cases. Like sleeping in a pansy bed, she used to say." The drooping eyes closed, and Molly tiptoed from the room. That evening after Dr. Roberts had been there and pronounced Grandma Feeney better than she had been for days, and Sister Sanford had come to stay the night, Molly said goodbye to the invalid. As she reached down to kiss the withered cheek, Grandma Feeney pulled her close and whispered in her ear. "You know what, Molly 563 Andrews," she said, "I feel like a million dollars here in my pretty things. Sister Sanford won't even know me, Ill be so nice to her tonight. I just want to thank you." Molly squeezed Grandma Feeney's hand. "And I want to thank you." "IT didn't do anything for you. What are you thanking me for?" "For more than you _ know," smiled Molly. "Goodbye now." OLLY walked fast on her way home. She wanted to get there before the family started eating dinner. Sometimes, she thought to herself as she sped along, sometimes a person needs a house to fall on her before she can see something clearly. Thinking this, she walked a little faster. Lois was making gravy when Molly burst into the house. "Lois," She called almost before she was through the door, "we're going to have filet mignon tonight." Lois stopped stirring the gravy and looked at her mother, startled. "We're going to what?" "You scoot in the dining room and gather up all those old dishes off the table, while I get down the good china. We're going to eat hamburger in style tonight." Lois peered closely at her. "Mother, are you all right?" she asked. "Tm a lot better than I was this morning," said Molly. "After you gather up the old dishes, you can get out the best silverware." Lois stared. "But you said this morming I couldn't use the good things." "One of these days," said Molly, climbing up to the high cupboard where the best dishes were kept, 564 "we'll all fall apart like the Wonderful One Hoss Shay, and then what good will pretty dishes that have never been used be?" Lois shook her head. "Mother, are you really sure you're all right? Are you sure you want to use the company best dishes?'" "Correction, my dear daughter," said Molly. "They are family best dishes from now on. After all, we won't be entertaining the President of the United States very often, and who is more important to us than our very own family, anyway?" From her high perch she smiled down at Lois' still bewildered young face. "Someday," she said, "T'll tell you all about the joy that went into getting these dishes, one by one, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 and how I had to put off buying the soup tureen one winter so I could buy you a snowsuit. There are lots of stories that go with these dishes, and I'll tell them to you when we use them. We won't use them every day, or we'd get tired of them, just as we get tired of our old dishes. But from now on we're going to use them for all kinds of special occasions, like when my very sweet and lovely daughter cooks hamburger for the family and wants it to taste like filet mignon." Lois threw back her head and laughed, then walked toward the dining room. "Honestly," she said, "a person needs a degree in psychology to understand mothers nowadays." Christie Lund Coles The soul has need of no companion here, Within this hour of gentle, mauve-soft dusk; With clouds, like pink sails floating on the clear Ocean of sky; air as fragrant sweet as musk. The new moon, like cantaloupe's green rind, Hovers beneath one star quivering above; While birds continue chattering till they find A nesting place; there is the coo of dove. I think God sends this hour to reconcile The intruding darkness and the glittering day. It is as though we stood before his smile And heard his words dispelling our dismay. The soul has need of no companion here, It stands serene in its own atmosphere. Vacation 'by-the-day Betty G. Spencer GEVERAL years ago, we discovered a wonderful new way to vacation. My husband's vacation was rescheduled for late fall, meaning no vacation for the children unless we could think of a new way to vacation. There was a new way — vacation-by-the-day! Rather hesitantly, we planned several short trips. 'To our surprise, we found our family enjoyed these one-day trips more than we had some of our lengthy vacations. Discoveries were abundant! Visits to the State Capitol, a pioneer fort, a pony express way station, a secluded mountain lake, were the beginning. Before the summer was over, we found we were all looking forward to the next trip. Vacation-by-the-day proved to be an inexpensive, interesting way to acquaint our family with the places of interest around us. Everyone helped in planning. Without suggestions from us, our children were seen consulting road maps, history books, and an ancient atlas, seeking new destinations. Occasionally, we would make an overnight trip, but usually left home early in the morning and returned that evening. Lunches, packed at home to save expense, were eaten at a roadside table or in a quiet park. The new way to vacation provided an unexpected bonus when school began. Our fourth-grader found that he would be studying the history of our State. Events and locations meant much more to him, because he had visited many of the places described in the text. This year, we hope to take a long out-of-State trip, but we will continue our favorite, year-around-way to vacation — vacation-by-the-day! Page 565 - Synopsis: " Marian Motgan, a widow and mother-of sixchildren, makes plans to take _ her family to spend the summer at a min- _ ing claim in Montana to do assessment work. Charles Neering, a asked her to stay in town,: ARIAN looked out the train M window. The countryside had taken on a translucent shade of green in the early dawn, -and the sky was a silver and pink sea. She couldn't remember when _ she had taken time to look at the sky last. She stretched and shifted jill to a new position, then looked at her children around her. The twins and Tommy on the seat opposite were still asleep, heads bobchapter 2. Shistey aes _—*s wi? =, her to change around." most of the passengers. Jim stretched Wi lderness bing 'froih side to side with the motion of the train. "Want me to hold Jill awhile Mom?" Sue asked. "Thanks, dear, but it might we Now the train was slowing downy and the conductor announced, "Next stop, Rushville." The change of motion awakened. His long legs as though he were un familiar with their new length. Looked over at his mother. And § "Did he say Rushville?" ~ "Yes," Marian answered, reachi for her purse and sweater. "Wa > = if para' GF THe WILDERNESS "~ Jim, mh pinset ick es stew pale Kee tra ea. ~~ We 7 pu the eae. Foni," Sue said. Ry Se "The store at the station will have "Fay "ae. Hing," Jim promised. — ta breakfast all prepared,' " ao ounced Marian, with an air, of Ti poh. She had anticipated their. Mmergency—breakfast,:- % As they made tleiz.. Way long the =~ 2, stepping over protruding feet Y&> uggage, Marian noticed they. He only ones getting off. Jim > to step down onto th platform. He walked over. N who was taking their gags from someone on a ' Sam?" Jim asked him. Straightened up and hand at the conductor. St e train started to pull, he took off his hat, and asia him. From one to of Marian's children he hen back at' Marian. C e did you come from, and tamation do you think aN Lake," said Marian. Going to the Silver Star e for the summer.". Ere's Sam?" Jim looked wornow, as he asked again for the. Aster he knew. Yar bad spell Vist fal. MPT Ts *T took over in Novem- _ - 0 re eS ee Star? "How, age yous" * ee Zon getting clear up there?" es all + ad be 6 vit <i Pr > a Reh Zz: - - a "ew = JENSEN; ~~: 568 Marian suddenly felt ill, "I'm Mrs. David Morgan We wrote a letter " Her words were small and they stuck in her throat. "We had expected Sam to drive us up in his station wagon," Jim said. "Mrs. Morgan? Howdy, I'm Tucker. Your letter likely got forwarded to Sam. I have a jeep, but I can't leave. Got to watch the post office here. My boy Dick has a station wagon, but hes gone to Butte. Won't be back until Monday morning." ARIAN watched the train disappear in the distance, and felt that her last tie with civilization had been cut off forever. She looked at the station. It was small and the windows were dirty. 'There were no buildings near, the town was farther down the road. "The hotel!" Marian remembered. David had brought her to town one week end for dinner and a show. "We can stay there until your son comes back." "Hotel isn't there anymore. Wasn't enough business to keep it up. Some of the stores are gone, too, and the library." "Could we borrow your jeep?" Jim asked. "Oh, yes, could we?" asked Marian. "Jim and I could bring it back Monday and then maybe Dick could take us back to the cabin." "Don't think it has any gas in it. Hasn't been used for awhile. It won't hold all of you and your stuff, anyhow." Jim went over and took the gas cap off. He found a stick on the ground and wiped it clean, then dipped it into the tank. Everyone RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 gathered around, leaning forward. The stick came out dry. "Oh!" Sue's one word echoed their disappointment. Marian felt like a trapped animal. Her mind was groping frantically. "Tm hungry," said Jill. Tommy began to cry. "Come on in the station." 'Tucker held the door open. "We used to have a store, but there wasn't enough business, so I made it into a bedroom and kitchen. Maybe we can find something for the youngsters to eat. The service station down town will be open soon. I have a gas can around here somewhere." "TI have some food," Marian said, not so proud of her planning now. She was almost apologetic as she opened the box and began to hand out hard-cooked eggs and fruit. "You will have to leave your gear here, though, and pick it up Monday," Tucker said. "You'll be doing well if you get your family in the jeep, let alone your stuff." Marian couldn't eat. Charles was right, she thought, suddenly feeling alone and lost. I shouldn't have come! The children were chatting and eating. As far as they were concerned, all was right with the world again, but Marian didn't share their assurance. "Sam used to bring supplies to us," said Jim. "I wonder if you." "You can talk to Dick about that," Tucker said. "He _ takes things to the Silver Bear." "We'll need potatoes and flour, things we couldn't bring on the train." "Mommy, have I ever had a jeep ~ ride?" Tommy asked between bites — of banana. OUT OF THE WILDERNESS "No, I don't think so," said Marian. "You ever drive a jeep before?" Tucker asked her. Jim looked quickly at his mother. '"Aren't they the same as any other car?" Marian asked. "No. They have more gears. But [ll show you." Marian didn't say anything. She was remembering what a hard time she had had learning to drive with only three gears. She looked at the six faces searching her own and knew she could do it. She had to. HE jeep jogged along the dirt road like a frightened buffalo. Marian, Jim, and Sue were in the front seat; the twins, Tommy, and Jill in the back, with three boxes of essentials on the floor under their feet. The road took them through a dream world of stately green pines and silverbarked quaking aspen. Sometimes, when they made a sharp turn, there would be a patch of sky so blue it took Marian's breath away. She had forgotten colors could be so vivid. At first they traveled in silence. Only the grinding motor and the whirr of the big wheels on the road could be heard. But, as Marian became more adept at handling the jeep, she started to hum a familiar tune. The others joined in. Soon they were singing at the top of their voices, with only an occasional squirrel to criticize or care if the notes were off key. 'The farther they went along the rugged mountain road, the more vivid the scenery became. Manian stopped the jeep once. The deep purple of a distant mountain, visible through the majestic trees, 569 made her pause to breathe, deeply, and she felt exhilarated. "We're almost there," Jim said. "It's just around this next bend and about a mile past the creek." But when the jeep rounded the bend, Marian pulled it to a sudden stop. "The bridge!" Jim shouted. "It's gone!"" He jumped out of the jeep and ran to the steep creek bank. Marian got out, too, and looked at the angry water rushing along, cartying the spring runoff from the winter's snow. "Oh, it's so deep."" Marian's words were barely audible. "Not a sign of the bridge. Sure must have had a bad storm," said Jim. "Oh," Sue was really frightened. So was Marian, but she dared not let the children know. "Well, now,' she said, trying with all her might to control her voice, "this will take a little thought, won't it?" A little thought, and a lot of prayer, she told herself. "Jim, is there any place else to cross?" "No. 'This is the only road." "What will we do?" Sue asked. "Can't jeeps go through water?" asked Jed. "Not when it's this deep, and the banks are steep," said Jim. Marian walked a little way from the creek. She knew she was in no condition to think clearly just yet. "You know," she said slowly, fighting the tightness in her throat, "I think this is an ideal place to have a picnic." Jim looked at her, surprise, almost unbelief, written on his face. "A picnic? Of all the crazy." "That's a good idea," Ted said. 570 "Oh, boy, a picnic!" yelled Tommy. "Mom, for goodness sakes!" said Sue. Marian went back to the jeep. She took one of the boxes out and set it on a grassy spot beside the road, then took her sweater off. Her hands were shaking, but she moved quickly so the children wouldn't notice. "Come on, sit on your sweaters. We have some crackers, cheese, and some more fruit." "Mom, I don't see how this is going to help." Jim was upset. "Son, we have all day to cross that creek. In the meantime, it won't do any harm to enjoy the scenery and get our bearings." Marian opened the package of sliced cheese. IM sat down and pulled impatiently at a tuft of grass. Then a bird called shrilly at the intruders and he watched it dip and turn as it flew overhead and disappeared. They didn't eat much. It had been only a couple of hours since they ate at the station. 'The twins and Tommy began a game of tag among the trees and Jill could hardly be seen above the mountain grass. Jim was lying on his back, arms folded across his chest. "This is nice," said Sue. "Why don't we just stay here until Monday?" "We can't do that." Marian knew that to be in the open after dark would be terrifying to her. The mountains would become giants, closing in around her, and behind each tree would be something frightening and sickening great RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 ready to grab one of them, if she closed her eyes. She had to have walls and a roof and a door to bar. "We we don't have any bedding," she said. "We have to get to the cabin somehow." Marian got up and went to the water's edge. Her thoughts were darting around everywhere, trying to find a solution. "Let's go back for help," said Jim, coming over to her. Marian was silent a moment, thinking. 'Then she said, more to herself than to Jim, "What could anyone do to help? Where would we stay while someone built a bridge? No one can help us...." Then suddenly Marian knew who could help. Going back to the children, she said, "Let's pray. Then we ll know what to do." They all knelt and bowed their heads. Jill pushed her way between Sue and Marian. The sunlight filtered down through the pines, and Marian asked the Lord for guidance. They lifted their heads, and all was silent. When she could talk, Marian asked Jim how far it was to the cabin. "Not too far," he answered. "Would it be within walking distance for us?" "T've walked from the cabin down here lots of times, but I don't know if Jill and Tommy...." "Tf we left the jeep here, would it be all right until Monday?" "Yes. No one comes up here this time of the year, except the other miners from the Silver Bear," "Then let's try to find a fallen tree. I saw some as we were driving along earlier." "You mean we're going to go OUT OF THE WILDERNESS across on a log? Oh, we can't!" She was close to hysterics, and Marian's heart kept coming up where it didn't belong. "Sue," Marian said, gently, "we can't drive the jeep over, and it's too deep to wade, so. " "But, Mother! A log!" Jim was already walking downstream. He hadn't gone far when he called, "Come here! I've found something!" They all hurried in his direction. "Look, Mom, a beaver dam! We can go across on that!" "Will it hold us?" "Sure, I've gone across them lots of times at scout camp. Most of them are good and strong, especially when they're new dams like this one. I'll go first to see if there are any weak places." He took off his shoes and stuffed his stockings inside, then rolled up his pants legs. The top of the dam was about two feet wide and fairly flat. Some of the water pushed its way over the top of the dam and fell down in a switling, foaming pool at the bottom, then went its way on down the creek. MARIAN held her breath as Jim made his way carefully across, the water splashing and pushing at him. "See? It's strong as cement," he said, coming back. Marian's head was in a whirl. She looked at the rushing water and held jill's hand tightly. For an instant, she felt as if she was going to faint. "Come on, take off your shoes," Jim told them. "It's so. Swift." her mother. Sue looked at 571 Marian tried to reassure her. "Come on, I'll help you," urged Jim. "It isn't as bad as it looks. It only comes up to my ankles." "Is it cold?" Ted wanted to know. "Mommy, take my shoes off," said jill. "No, darling, Jim will carry you." Manian had to smile at her eagerness. "Hang on to your shoes, Jed, and go in front of me," Jim said. The boys had no trouble at all making it over to the other side. In fact, 'Tommy wanted to do it again, but Marian's insides were all in a knot, and the knot got tighter as it neared her turn. Sue was hesitant at first, but Jim took her arm, and helped her over, then came back. "Mom, you go ahead, I'll go get the boxes." He started towards the jeep, and Marian couldn't call after him, her voice wouldn't squeeze past the tight place in her throat. She fought back the fright and bared her feet. "Come on, Mom," called Tommy, "it's fun!" "It really is, Mother," said Ted. Manian put one foot in and then the other, then stopped. "Don't look down, Mom," Sue advised. "Just look straight ahead, then you won't get dizzy." "I'm glad we didn't bring all our things," Jim said, bringing the biggest box first. "I'd have worn the dam away getting it all across." Marian, finally across, sat down on a huge rock on the other side and wiped her feet in the sun-warmed grass. She looked at her children. Their faces were glowing, and their eyes were sparkling, and Marian felt happy. 572 They were a strange caravan as they made their way up the dusty road stopping every once in awhile to rest, and to shift burdens. 'They traveled slowly, there was so much to see, a scarlet mountain flower, or a bubbling stream dancing over clean brown rocks. Little Jill began to get so tired she had to be carried. Once Ted and Jed made a chair with their arms for her, to relieve Marian. "How much farther, Jim?" Marjan asked. "Not far now." They rounded the next bend in the road, and Jim said, "There it is, see, by that big pine." "T can see it," yelled Ted. The children hurried on ahead, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 but Marian was weary. She could see the cabin now, too, the ugly unpainted boards, the bare yard around it. As she came closer, the two windows were huge glaring eyes. She wanted to turn and run, but there was no place to run to. She wanted to cry out, but she didn't. "Mommy, bring the key...." "Jim has it." "Well, hurry. " Marian followed their voices, reluctantly, mechanically. She knew she had to go inside and begin to make a summer home for her family here in the wilderness. Suddenly Sue's terrified voice cut through the mountain air. "Mother!" she screamed. "Mother!" (To be continued ) Ouida Johns Pedersen Firelight, warm-hued as the rosewood organ My father used to play, Carries me to the humble parlor Of another day. When his strong hand was gentled To its lightest touch As he pedaled and played the simple hymns We came to love so much. "An Angel From on High." I hear The sweet refrain And "O My Father,' ' touches My heartstrings once again. Never a symphony sounded, Never a concert rang, As sweetly on my listening ear As the hymns my father sang. | | | | Paul's Photos UPPER KILLARNEY LAKE, COUNTY KERRY, IRELAND My Shadow Celia Larsen Luce S I walk in the sunshine I see my shadow. It follows along, falling on many things as I pass them. It is easy to see where my shadow goes. The shadow of my influence is a harder thing to see. A chance remark, a kindness or an evil deed — these things fall on others and influence their lives. I can never tell where the shadow of my influence may fall. Since this is so, since I may help change the lives of others for good or evil without ever knowing it, I must be very careful. I must live as close to God as I can, following in his ways. Then my influence will not be like a shadow, but like a light, showing others the way. Page 573 MY FAMILY LIKES ALL KINDS OF Just So They are Vilate R. McAllister ¢= - 6 p SN'T it lucky, with peaches in many localities i in aad —" the easiest to can, too? Oh, we put up a few cherries, berries, apricots, rhubarb, and applesauce, for variety. But we Tike about as many peaches as all the rest combined. | After thirty years of canning peaches, I have it down to a system Fi irst, I check my bottles, selecting those with no nicks or irregul in the rims, and, of course, no cracks. I hunt out unrusted, unbattered screw from last year, purchase new fresh lids, there is pane, of sugar, and" puy aches. We make an aesthetic experience driving out into the country the evening f Mining and enjoying the sights of the c f' (_ Adden with golden fruits. Two bushels wi a moming's work, and we can get more if needed. We set them on the back over night, then, before my husband work, he brings them in and puts t chairs or a bench in the kitchen, so i have to lift nor stoop. | Breakfast over with and the dishes the way, I fill the sink with rich suds ar the bottles, rinsing them well, and turni upside down to drain in the dish drat on folded dish towels. I separate the out the sugar, a colander or wire bs a sauce pan that it will fit to, for the s —_— -_ — a measuring cup, a small sharp-pointed 'J / \ knife, a pie plate, and a small pan to ee eee Water for dipping the lids. I fill the ¢ \; [:: canner about a third full of water ar - - over high heat, as also the scalding Be, i] is full enough to cover the peaches 7 L/ op soon as the water in the pan begins | Kz put three or four peaches into the a CSS and immerse it into the boil bi ame aoe C - >, spencer, ) < { '3 rim of each bottle or piece of paper wes will be there to hinder the sealing, dip the lids in hot water, which softens the composition slightly, and screw them down snugly, but not tightly enough to cut the composition, with the screw bands. It may take a little shake to dissolve all the sugar. I might wish I had remembered the trick I used last year, to put the sugar into each jar, add enough hot water to dissolve it before adding the peaches. But, no matter, I prefer measuring the sugar for each jar, rather than making up a kettle of syrup, because I get a more uniform product that way. These seven bottles now go into the canner, enough hot water is added to cover the tops an inch or more, and then it is brought to a full boil. I regulate the heat so it won't boil over, but will keep up a good boil, write down the time the peaches should be cooked, depending on altitude, or set the timer. At 4,500 feet altitude, I process peaches one-half hour. The time can be shortened for lower altitudes. While this first batch is cooking, I continue to scald, peel, and prepare seven more bottles. The cold water in the sink, and the scalding water I change occasionally, but the water in the canner will only need to be added to, so there will be plenty to cover the jars well, as each new batch is put in. Usually between each batch, since the peeling takes less time than the cooking, there is a short interval, when I can walk out to the mailbox, hold a short. Telephone conversation, glance over the headlines in the paper, or take a minute to relax. When the time is up, I raise the ~ rack out of the water, sop the hot water off the tops of the bottles with a dishcloth, so that it won't soak through the hot pad with which I lift the jars out and burn me. Wiping each bottle with a hot dishcloth will remove any stick- — iness, although, if I have not filled — the jars too full, the syrup will not have expanded to the point where it has escaped into the water bath, and stickiness will not be a problem. Leaving space for the air to circulate around each bottle, the bottles are set in rows on an asbestos sheet, or thick pad of folded newspapers, out of the draft and out of the way. Popping musically as the vacuum is formed in the jars, they cool. When perfectly cold, usually next morning, I remove the screw bands to use again, and line the bottles up on _ the pantry shelves, where they smile at me in mouth-watering lusciousness. The peaches that were not quite ripe have been set aside to do tomorrow, and the overripe ones now go into a jam kettle. I use a to speed the jam making. Hot suds quickly clears up what little stickiness has been made. What a satisfying morning it has been! I am not tired, because, having everything in the right places, the work went smoothly. Besides, I have enjoyed the exhilaration of making a contribution to the future health, security, and pleasure of my peach-loving family. Martha Tucker Fugate UST where is the dividing line between dressing somewhat in harmony with contemporary fashions and having too much pride and concern over one's wearing apparel? This is a subject I have puzzled over at different times. I have found myself wondering if some people go places more to show off new outfits than for any other reasons. Even in going to church, a family's old clothing, clean and pressed, is acceptable to ourselves and before the Lord. There can be little lasting satisfaction in being lifted up in pride, instead of feeling reverence and humility. We are told not to lay up for ourselves treasures where moth can corrupt. The use of the moth for an illustration suggests that we should not treasure fine clothing, above all else, for we are warned "where your treasure is, there will your heart be also" (Luke 12:34). Perhaps some of the distorted attitudes on the importance of fine clothing begin with adolescence, when clothes seem so important, particularly with some girls, who feel compelled to follow passing fads and fancies, many of them expensive and some immodest. What can be done to give young people a proper perspective toward clothing? For one thing, we can see that they are familiar with the warnings from 'The Book of Mormon. For two hundred years after the coming of Christ, there was peace and happiness in the land. Then "there began to be among them those who were lifted up in pride, such as the wearing of costly apparel, and all manner of fine pearls, and of the fine things of the world. And they began to be divided into classes; and they began to build up churches unto themselves to get gain, and began to deny the true church of Christ" (4 Nephi 24:26). There is a more positive, and also more pointed pronouncement in our modern scriptures for both old and young, "And again, thou shalt not be proud in thy heart; let all thy garments be plain, and their beauty the beauty of the work of thine own hands" (D & C 42:40). Perhaps it is unnecessary, and at times even impractical, to sew everything one wears, but certainly much of a girl's apparel can be made at home, and lovely sweaters hand knitted. With sewing classes being offered in as early as the seventh grade in some areas, every girl can develop enough skill to sew for herself. Perhaps, by this process, we can, over the years, supplant mere pride of fine clothes and appearance by satisfaction with being thrifty and delighting in our own workmanship and accomplishment. Page 577 As I occasionally do on Fast Sunday morning, when I have no hurried preparations for breakfast and dinner before going to Sunday School, I took an early walk to the Manti Temple. Reaching the top of the hill, I looked down on my town, a pioneer town with great rural charm. I knew the dear folks who lived in the homes set among the trees, and I was glad they were my neighbors and friends. It was a lovely morning. 'The sky was a powder blue, with soft wispy islands of clouds. The very air seemed hushed and still. Summer was just on the threshold. I wandered around the flower-girt temple. The dew had not quite vanished from the velvety petals. 'The colorful beauty of the flower beds brought a lump to my throat. Surely a flower is a miracle. The lines from Lowell came to mind: Every clod feels a stir of might, An instinct within it that reaches and towers, And, groping blindly above it for light, Climhs to a soul in grass and flowers. Each flower seemed to whisper of hope and faith and love. A gentle breeze wafted the mingled perfume of a dozen scents. There was an occasional burst of bird song, the droning of the bees, and the silkenwinged butterflies flitted in and out of the flowers like myriads of varicolored jewels. The smooth clipped lawns sloped down to the cemetery, where rows of pines stood like stately sentinels guarding that silent city. The gentle countryside stretched away in a patchwork panorama of fields, with their green sheen giving promise of a harvest to come, of pastures dappled with placid cattle and sheep grazing in the lush grass, to the changeless cedarstudded hills for a backdrop. Here was surely an oasis of peace. Worldly cares had been left at the foot of the hill. It was so quiet that I felt that truly here one could "Be still, and know that I am God." Surely in this stillness one could renew one's strength and find poise and peace and wisdom. I sat down on a low wall to rest in this quiet place, in the shadow ot this sacred edifice, and felt a precious sereneness in an age when serenity is so rare. I felt as if the earth had stopped tor a minute, and that I was suspended in a spot close to heaven. N Temple Hill sister sie snccssn I gazed up at the spires and felt a mystic tie with my ancestors who had seemed so near to me as | had performed the saving ordinances for them in that holy house. 'This indeed was cherished ground. Always I am awed at the dignity and sublimity of the temple of enduring stone standing so permanent and protectingly above our valley. It is a legacy to us from those who have lived before, a monument to the faith and integrity, love and sacrifice of its pioneers. Surely they built well, structures of everlasting beauty. For many summers I have had such a glorious privilege of spending much time on this sacred hill as a guide to meet and greet visitors, telling them the sweet gospel story, telling them of our pioneers and the building of the temple, stories which warm my heart, and perhaps I am even guilty of a little possessiveness. I have felt a corresponding warmth in those visitors, a sincere interest, and a tremendous appreciation and admiration for our people, our way of life, and our temple which is a symbol of the continuity of the gospel, of our faith in God. I silently pray on each of these occasions that we may be worthy of that appreciation. I recalled these experiences as I sat there that Sunday morning. And in this hour on the hill, in the celestial silence, I felt a spiritual uplift, I felt a little cleaner, more attuned with the spirit of the Sabbath. I certainly should be closer to the Lord all day, all week, because I was on a hallowed spot on a hallowed day. As I walked back down the hill to my home, the town was awakening to activity. As I saw the menfolk leave one house after another for Priesthood meeting, they appeared to me truly men bent on doing God's work; mothers who stood in doorways or porches to see them off, good women. Later, as I walked to our ward meetinghouse, the scrubbed, shining faces and brushed, glistening hair of the little boys and girls going to Sunday School, attired in their Sunday best, thrilled me. I am sure Jesus was smiling on them. As we stood at a street crossing, to have one tiny girl trustingly put her hand in mine, confident I would guide her safely across the street, was heartwarming and made me aware of the oneness of our ward family in the gospel. With Browning, I could echo "God's in his heaven," and surely on a day like this, in a place like this, there is the world's surest promise of: eternal peace. Hand to the Plow Part IV — DEDICATION Ilene H. Kingsbury Synopsis: A Welsh widow on her way to the valleys of the mountains in 1864, with her family of five children, pauses in a railway station in Philadelphia awaiting a train to take them westward. The widow's father and mother and some of her brothers and sisters, who have not joined the Church, have already established themselves in Bradys Bend, Pennsylvania, only about twenty-five miles from the railroad. The widow and her family had long planned to visit their relatives before traveling to the West to make a permanent home; however, the fear of not continuing westward to the body of the saints after being reunited with her family, causes the widow to decide to journey westward at once. "Almost thou persuadest me." Somewhere she had heard a song which praised the Father of all for just such sweet reunion as was now within her grasp. But she now had said I cannot, and I have thought. Children do not so easily give up coaxing, teasing, tearfully begging, and downright demanding. Is it too difficult by carriage or wagon to cover those few crow miles? Do you remember that only a few days back, on the fearful Atlantic, we yearned for any going just so it was on dry earth? Now we have that earth, that ease. Have we not Page 580 Ge Aimostthow she had read, enough means to swerve our course, as a scythe reaches to strike home? Is it so necessary — that arrival in the Far West — that one day or another would make a difference? Strength, time, means, distance; all as a drop in the bucket when so soon it will overflow for joy. Sweet reunion of heart. Catching of the breath at a thought of Grandma standing arms akimbo waiting for us to rush her off her feet. Is the eye never to see these kindred? "T cannot do it," she said again and again. Then arose that natural question, of why, why? In the scales, the reasons for the Bend far outweighed the ones for a few days of delay, then continuance of the way. The children slowed down in their thinking and talking. Those who could better express themselves in tears, when touched most deeply, did cry. Those who might believe that a cry of protest was not manly, kept silent and felt more the man for it. The six-year-old was not exactly to be considered in this family conclave, but she remembered when she was a great-grandmother that, as she reached for her mother emigrant' hand, it was trembling. 'This is perhaps our only clue that a great HAND TO THE PLOW battle had waged within the granite, lion-hearted woman. Another glance at her would reveal the very set of the jaw, the very mobile relentlessness of face of the king of the forest. She never looked so immovable, so chiseled, as that morning when she said she would not get off the train. When the whirlwind of protest had subsided, and each child had reached calm banks of emotion, their mother answered the why, why of her decision. In the first place, yes, she was afraid of Indians, and rebels, and walking a thousand miles, perhaps still another thousand across the wastes of North America. Yes, there were no loved ones awaiting them in the Rockies. 'True, a family or two of friends in the Old Country had preceded them to that far-off desert; but who knew where they were by now? Perhaps dead of _ cholera or of bleeding of a redman's arrow, or assigned even more distant valleys west and on west. Perhaps some were already rich on the Golden Shore. But go they must. Where? To Zion. HAT last word was said with a glint of the eye that could only reflect a spiritual dedication to a cause, only a religious fulfillment not found elsewhere. 'The word was the reminder to her boys and girls that goals had been set, vows taken, means gathered, and a journey begun, all because a faith had been accepted, tried on for fit, found to fit, and, now, must be worn right on into a certain valley. That valley of refuge was a place where pride of wearing that faith and living it could be called dedication, fulfillment, self-realization. The spirit of 581 the migration in that day came under the heading of gathering. It reminded one of Moses and the Red Sea, in religious fervor. This gathering, then, was worth all the hardships, the empty stomachs, the bleeding feet, the giving up of the world. Yes, the emigrant mother assured her children this was worth more than father and mother and brothers and children and husband. Even Grandpa and Grandma, their glances questioned. But why can't we have both? Give us a few days at Bradys Bend, give us the only chance we shall ever have to see our aunts and uncles and cousins. 'Then we shall start out refreshed for the valley. Why couldn't that be the way? If the hand was trembling and the voice showed a quaver, the eye and heart were steadfast. Her answer: Because I have not the courage, after such a joyful reunion, to go on. The children thought to themselves and questioned each other with startled glances. What is our mother talking about? They wondered. She who is iron and rock and lion and refuge, all in all — she says she has not the courage! What then of us who are young and fatherless and homeless and dependent on the ravens for bread? How must we feel about resolution and never deserting a worthy cause? These thoughts shook them as they realized their helplessness. But, Mother, they pleaded. Even in the face of her solidness, they hated to let go of their weakness and abide by her decision. Her inner thoughts weighed her strength under stress. This was part of the 582 testing, no doubt. If she could not withstand the cries of her children in this little island of privacy among strangers, how could she combat the tears of her parents and loved ones combined with the victorious offspring? 'Together, they would talk her out of the supreme goal in life, even the life hereafter. Temporary pleasure was pitted against permanent security. If one could be victorious in the little things, then their accumulation of power would bring one victorious in the great issues. 'Thus she had thought since buying a ticket which would bypass the Bend. HE motioned to Eliza to open her carpet bag and retrieve from the folds of personal clothing a little Testament given her by the captain of the sailing vessel as a parting gift. The mother then said, "Eliza, turn to Luke nine and sixty-one and read to us." And this is what Eliza read: "And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee; but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home at my house. And Jesus said unto him, No man, having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God." The Word had been consulted. If it took each hearer of that Word to make his personal interpretation, it also took his personal action which followed that hearing. This was almost the only time in each life of the children that they wanted time and privacy and strength to arrange their hearts and minds in such an order that an accuser in later years could be turned aside without a case against them. Their earthly mother had shown them the Word, and they believed. The sacrifice was RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 stated as if meant for them instead of travelers to Jerusalem in the year thirty-two a. V. The reward was also assured, and they believed that, too. One by one they looked their mother squarely in the face. That was all the affirmative vote she needed. All were very quiet. No reproach was heard. It was not easy, but now they all knew that the valley and not the Bend was their immediate goal. Now the struggle was over, the tension was broken as water breaking through the headgate of adam. If tears were mingled with the flood, they were tears of triumph and not remorse. As hope rises eternally to lift all to ecstasy, so it did them. Some day, some day, maybe, maybe, we can come back to this station and start out for the Bend and reunion and contentment. We shall, we shall. But the emigrant made no promise for herself. The finality of her decision precluded the hope that she could retrace her footsteps to this bitter day to start out to find her parents. Her strength lay in forsaking, in renouncing the idea as a permanent thing. T'o consider that even in old age she should be so near this sentimental goal, was to make her half defeated at this moment. Forever behind her was this day, this trembling of the hand, this possibility of defeat. If time and strength were pitted against each other again, she would know what to do, and that without the great battle from within. The West and not the Bend was to be the daily cry. The Bend was to be thought of less and less, thus to hurt less acutely, thus to become a chapter of life entitled Lost, or HAND TO THE PLOW Never, or I Cannot. The very denouncement of this plan gave power to the shoulders to bear any burden, gave direction to the feet to trudge ever forward, gave resolution to the heart to live and love and dream and achieve in spite of disappointment and tragedy. In giving up this 583 side journey she would be the better fortified against other temptations, other passing pleasures, so that the big chance could be pursued and conquered. Only in saying I cannot can we ever say I can. The emigrant was ready to resume her journey. (To be continued ) A Summarization of the Brief Life of Edgar Allan Poe Hazel Owen If you were to walk in the shoes of Poe, Tormented by drink, aloneness, and woe, What would you do, if your life were so? What would you turn to, and where would you go? If you had a desperate desire to write, And the world was against you in your fight, Would you see the blue of sunlit skies? Or a darker hue, with your darkened eves? Life was confusion, and noise, and din, Overwhelmingly crowding and shutting him in; No one to hear him and no one to care, No relief sought through the power of prayer. He builded with words his cathedral gray, And made a tomb where his loved one lay; Fashioned a song for his sorrows to hide— Then he was gone, and was laid by her side. sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, August 1902 "FOR THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NAaATIONs"' RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN MALAD STAKE: On the stand were Apostle M. F. Cowley and Sister Emilia D. Madsen one of the General Board of the Relief Society.... Sister Madsen rejoiced to meet with the sisters of this Stake. We enjoy a glorious privilege in administering to our sick, let us be faithful to the sacred trust placed in us, never let the poor suffer.... Let kindness and love abound.... Apostle Cowley spoke of the kind and gentle influence in this meeting. Asked the mothers to solicit their sons and daughters to take an earnest interest in the work of God. Hope the young people would cultivate a spirit of charity and virtue. Many people have been saved by taking the counsel of their mothers.... — Eliza A. Hall, Sec. WORK One single day's allotted task well done — That is a comfort to the weary head; Better than feathers for the toiler's bed Is the sweet thought to rest upon.... — Maud E. Sargent ITEMS ABOUT ART: It is pleasant to note that the women artists of the State are recognized in the State Board of Art appointed by Governor Wells and the Senate of the State Legislature. At the recent election in the governing board of the Utah Art Institute, Miss Mary Teasdel was elected president, Mrs. Edna Wells Sloan secretary, and Mrs. Alice Merrill Horne treasurer — all places of trust and requiring executive ability.... Miss Mary Teasdel was the second Utah woman to have work exhibited at the (Paris) Salon. Three miniatures and an oil portrait were also received; one miniature was accepted at the Paris Exposition — a rare honor. — News Note A WOMAN SUPERINTENDENT OF SCHOOLS: Mrs. Mary Orser, of Vernal, Utah, was recently elected county school superintendent. — Ex. GAINS OF SUFFRAGE IN UTAH. There is a greater gain, a more inestimable boon to the great unnoticed mass of womanhood. The unobtrusive woman who thinks much but says little; the careful woman who economizes and denies herself to make ends meet that excessive taxes may be paid... Who, satisfied to let well enough alone, contends not for the places sacred to men... The motherly woman, whose only care is for righteous government that her children may be free from all oppression.... — Emily S. Richards Page 584 S Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon MILY DICKINSON'S _ best poems — 575 of them — have been collected for the first time in one volume, now on the market. Thomas H. Johnson selected them and wrote the introduction. 'The poems reveal the charm and insight of the woman who lived in great seclusion, but who as time rolls on becomes constantly more understood, and more beloved. MB:- CALVIN S. (ETHEL LUCILE DIMOND) SMITH, of Bennion, Utah, was selected as Utah's 1962 Mother of the Year. She has had thirteen children, all outstanding for both intelligence and character. The Smith children (grandchildren of Joseph F. Smith, sixth President of the Church), were taught to work industriously, to stand on their own feet, to love and live a religious and _ spiritual life, and to give generously of themselves to others. MB:. HEROND (MARIE GUTKE) SHERANIAN, sixty-seven, and an active Latter-day Saint woman from Beverley Hills, was chosen California's Mother of the Year. Living in Utah until she moved to California in 1934, Mrs. Sheranian is the mother of nine accomplished, intelligent children. A descendant of 1847 pioneers and also of Julia Ward Howe, author of "Battle Hymn of the Republic," Mrs. Sheranian was cited in her award for her leadership among women. RS. MARJORIE L. FRENCH, a high school teacher of mathematics, from 'Topeka, Kansas, received the National Teacher of the Year Award from President Kennedy at White House ceremonies in Washington on May 14. OIS MATTOX MILLER has written an article, "Lung Cancer and Cigarettes," which appears in the June Reader's Digest as a summary of the British Royal College of Physicians' recent report on "Smoking and Health." The report is praised as the first to "spell out a practical program of preventive measures for the individual and the Government." The report stated unequivocally: "Cigarette smoking is a cause of lung cancer and bronchitis, and probably contributes to the development of coronary heart disease and various less common diseases." Page 585 EDITORIAL AUGUST 1962 In the Family There Is Strength AMILY love and unity and the promise of an eternal pattern are part of the heritage of the generations. This legacy must be guarded as a present joy and as a future blessing. It is a brief time, the years when the children bless the home — their dear beginning words, strange and delightful; their swift feet, their little happy rhymes and songs; their questions and their young philosophy. So brief a time — like orchard trees that come to bud and bloom, then lose their petals, and, in their turn, bear fruit. This family unity, this building today for all the tomorrows, is best accomplished when the members of the family erect the protective structure together. Family activities are long remembered, and their comforting companionship can never be forgotten. A son, whose early years were spent on a western ranch, found that his responsibility to his country took him to an alien land. Yet in that place, with misty eyes, he traced the outlines of the strange mountains, and compared that silhouette with the hills of home, where he had companioned with his father in the fields of yellow Page 586 wheat and purple-flowered lucern. There was enduring comfort in those memories of home; there was strength and rejoicing. A daughter, whose adult life was beset with many trials, received a rejuvenation of spirit each time she recalled the days of summers past, when she sat with her mother on the veranda of the stone house, and they sewed together the intricate designs for quilts and fancy pillows, and the fine film of netting and crocheting. It seemed to the daughter, in later years, that the stitches of those summer days were destined to be everlasting, as if stitching together the love of the mother and the daughter, so that such a companionship could never be lost, and could forever be recalled in elements of affection and spiritual aspiration. So it has been in many families — brothers and _ sisters helping and strengthening and comforting each other; one family unit tenderly caring for the elderly ones before them in the generations, and extending loving concern for the young children in the new lines of the family, continuing the ideals and the purtposes of a blessed family among the homes of earth, in a pattern of everlasting devotion. GENERAL BOARD 4, President -. Madsen, Second Counselor B. Hart S. Elliott Mildred B. Eyring J. Madsen Charlotte A. Larsen G. Layton Edith P. Backman B. Stoddard Winniefred S. W. Peterson Manwaring M. Young Elna P. Haymond. Bay Annie M. Ellsworth As the years hasten in these latter times, many mothers are earnestly searching for family activities that can be enjoyed within the limitations imposed by city life, or by small budgets, or by disparity of ages in the family group. A mother, whatever her home conditions may be, can, by careful planning, allocate to her children some gainful work, which can be accomplished by united effort — keeping the house shining and clean, caring for patio or porch, tending the yard and the garden — these are tasks of infinite possibilities. Keeping accounts and budgets, composing and arranging family histories, writing letters to loved ones away from home — these are rewarding activities. 'They can help to make the home the center of family life — the nucleus of well-beloved interests and activities. Hobbies, too, can bring a family close together, in discovering new knowledge, new enchantment, a new look upon the wonders of the natural world, or the endlessly intriguing objects that may be constructed with willing hands. A child's butterfly collection can be so enlarged that the whole family participates. A son's woodcarving can be enjoyed by others in the family who may help with patterns and materials. A daughter's interest in Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson lrene B. Woodford Fanny S. Kienitz Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor + Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love fancywork can be developed during the family storytelling sessions, and in their family evenings together. A father and a son who classify a mineral collection together are building life ideals together. Their delight becomes a visible and shining experience. Families who travel together in vacation time may find, in the new vistas of experience, an extension of their personal interests, and a vivid perception of their dear love for each other. Seeing together the cities and the industries, the shining highways, and the busy factories, unites a family in interests and _ experiences. Though each one may see a different aspect of a mountain or a wilderness, the horizon of each is widened and illuminated by the other's perception and choice of sight or sound. One may be a gatherer of herbs or flowers, another may rejoice in colored stones; one may listen for the song of birds, another may consider the curves of the highway and the construction of bridges. All are enlightened by each other. Home is where the family weave together the life pattern — the everlasting life pattern, and make it varied and beautiful, yet of one design and purpose. —V. P. C. Page 587 as The Annual General Relief Society Conference HE Annual General Relief Society Conference will be held Wednesday and Thursday, September 26 and 27, 1962. The general session will be held on Wednesday, September 26, from 2 to 4 p. M. In the Tabernacle. It is suggested that ward Relief Society presidents ask their bishops to announce in the wards the general session of the conference to which the general public is invited. Attendance at the officers meeting on Wednesday morning, September 26, from 10 to 12 in the Tabernacle, and the departmental meetings to be held on Thursday morning and Thursday afternoon, September 27, is limited to stake board members and mission officers. A reception to which stake board members and mission officers are invited will be held on Wednesday evening, September 26, from 7 to 10 in the Relief Society Building. Relief Society Magazines for 1961 Available for Binding ETS of the twelve issues of The Relief Society Magazine for 1961 are available for a limited time, at the office of the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. The price for the twelve issues is $2 postpaid. If it is desired to have the Magazines bound by the Deseret News Press (see advertisement on page 630 of this issue of the Magazine), the set of 1961 Magazines will be sent, if so directed, to them. Payment for the Magazines, for binding, and for postage on bound volumes should be sent with the order. A yearly index will be included in the binding. ERRATUM The name of Frances C. Yost was omitted as the author of "In a Time of Flood" in the July 1962 issue of The Relief Society Magazine — due to an error in the layout and heading arrangement. Apologies are extended to Mrs. Yost for this regrettable omission from her very fine article. Page 588 Jerusalem, City of Peace Christine H. Robinson Member, Adult Planning Committee of the Church Co-ordinating Council through the Judean Hills, provides a soul-stirring, never-to-be-forgotten experience. As the twenty-mile long road approaches the Holy City, each bend in the rocky, rugged hills provides a short but almost breathtaking view of the city with its ancient walls, yellow limestone buildings, and tall cypress trees nestled in the tops of the mountains. Nearer Jerusalem, the road swings around one of the final bends and enters the little town of Bethany, situated on the slopes of the Mount of Olives. This was the home of Mary, Martha, and Lazarus, and a place which Jesus loved and where he so often stayed with his friends and loved ones. Beyond this quaint little village, spread over four hills, are the magnificent walls and much of the imposing Holy City of Jerusalem. As spectacular and impressive as the city is today, it must have been even more beautiful during the period of the Savior's ministry. It was at Bethphage, just a short distance up and around the hill from Bethany, that Jesus, only a few days before his crucifixion, stopped and beheld the city in all its splendor "and wept over it" (Luke 19:41). Jesus wept perhaps not only because of the beauty of the city, but also because this would be one of the last times, as a mortal being, he would see it, and he knew how great and peaceful Jerusalem might have been if only its people had accepted his teachings. As Jesus pondered the condition and fate of the city, Matthew records that he lamented, "O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets, and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not!" (Mt. 23:37). Jerusalem, during the Saviors ministry, was a magnificent and important city. Only a short time earlier Herod had beautified it. He had erected many new buildings and had rebuilt the temple and the walls, including the massive golden gates leading into the valley of Kedron. His Page 589 [ot journey from Jericho to Jerusalem up the steep, winding road objective had been to restore Jerusalem to the ancient glory and splendor which it had enjoyed under the reign of Solomon. Less than six miles from Jerusalem is the little town of Bethlehem. On that world-shaping day, some 2,000 years ago, Mary and Joseph came there to the home of their ancestors and there Jesus was born. On the outskirts of Bethlehem are the shepherds' fields where sheep were brought in from the surrounding grazing areas for better protection during the night. It was there (see cover) on that eventful night that shepherds, tending their flocks, received the wonderful vision announcing the Savior's birth as the scriptures record: And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shown round about them: and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the City of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord (Luke 2:8-11). TODAR, a hostile border separates the Arabs from the Jews and cuts off the main road from Jerusalem to Bethlehem. Consequently, the roundabout distance between the two cities is much greater than it was during the Savior's ministry. Then, undoubtedly, he must have walked many times the approximate six miles from Jerusalem to the city of his ancestors and of his birth. Despite its spectacular physical beauty, during the time of the Savior, Jerusalem was a cosmopolitan, wicked city. Jesus foresaw its complete destruction and predicted that the time would soon come when the beautiful temple would be torn down with not one stone remaining on top of another. Yet, it was at Jerusalem where Jesus accomplished much of his mighty work, gave many of his great teachings, and performed many of his most wonderful miracles. It was here that mothers brought to him their little children "and he took them in his arms, put his hands upon them, and blessed them" (Mark 10:16). He said, "suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God" (Mark 10:14). In Jerusalem he healed the sick, caused the lame to walk, and made the blind to see. Here he exhibited his righteous indignation when he cast the thieves and money-changers out of the temple and proclaimed that his father's house "shall be called the house of prayer; but ye have made it a den of thieves" (Mt. 21:13). When Jesus taught at Jerusalem, the scheming Pharisees, hoping to trap him, asked, "Master, which is the great commandment in the law? Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy might, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself" (Mt. 22:35-39). At Jerusalem Jesus emphasized the divine importance of service to one another, saying, "Inasmuch as ye have Page 590 oe "ye _; D > Danes? Dei ey ' "yt Color transparency by Dr. O. Preston Robinson | The Old City and Wall of Jerusalem as seen today. Color transparency by Dr. O. Preston Robinson \ | Bethany, near Jerusalein, near the spot where the house of Mary, Martha and Lazarus once stood. Er r. - te: A VieW of p rt of Jeru le m t 1] n fi m tt M The irden or 4 thsem t: } Vi The Church of the tions 1 | Color transparency by Dr. O. Preston Robinson The Garden of Gethsemane. These old olive trees are said to be over 2,000 years old. — Mies eee Color transparency by Dr. O. Preston Robinson The Mount of Olives from near the site of Bethphage. done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me" (Mt. 25:40). Despite Christ's mighty works and his great compassion for Jerusalem, the city rejected and scorned him. With trumped-up charges and on the basis of an illegal trial, he was brought by the priests and the people before Pilate and was condemned to death. Up a narrow winding street, similar to the one, today, which is called the Via Dolorosa (the Street of Sorrow), he carried his cross to Golgotha, the "Hill of the Skull," where he was crucified. Only a few short hours before, he had knelt in the Garden of Gethsemane, at the foot of the Mount of Olives near the path he had taken so many times to his beloved Bethany. In an orchard of beautiful olive trees, he had prayed mightily to his Father saying, "My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death.... O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless, not as I will, but as thou wilt" (Mt. 26:38, 39). HE name Jerusalem in Hebrew means "The City of Peace." Yet, probably more than any city down through the ages, Jerusalem has experienced little peace. The history of the city has been largely one of conflict, conquest, destruction, and restoration. Nation after nation has fought over it, and each new conqueror has soon been faced with the necessity of holding his conquest against the determined aggression of another. 'These repeated conquests constitute a strange and puzzling fact about Jerusalem. Although the city has always had great religious significance, it has never been an economic prize for its conquerors. Except for the times when it might have harbored religious treasures, it has had no great economic assets. The city has no mineral wealth. It is not in the center of a rich agricultural district. It controls no important trade routes nor seaport. In fact, it has only a scanty independent water supply, and to support increased population it has been necessary to bring water in through an extensive system of aqueducts. Yet, the control of Jerusalem has been a symbol, and as long as it remained in enemy hands, the inhabitants of Palestine could not feel secure. Possibly, the earliest Biblical reference to "The City of Peace" is found in Genesis in the account of Melchizedek, King of Salem, unto whom Abraham paid tithes. "Salem" means "peace," and many scholars believe this reference is to Jerusalem (Genesis 14:18). It was during David's reign that Jerusalem was conquered by the Hebrews and became the City of the Jews. Since David's time, Jerusalem has been known among the Jews as "The City of David." David made the city his capital, brought into it the ark of the covenant, and surrounded it with a new wall. It was to his son Solomon, however, that the responsibility and honor came to rebuild and beautify the city and to construct its magnificent temple on Mount Moriah, one of Jerusalem's four hills. During Solomon's time, Jerusalem was truly a "City of Peace." 'This blessing, however, was not to be long enjoyed. After Solomon's death, the Page 595 city was fought over by the divided tribes of Israel. Then followed a Jong period of strife and conquest during which time the city changed hands so many times that even history does not record the number. Probably, no place in history has been more violently fought over than this so-called "City of Peace." True to the pattern of its troubled history, Jerusalem, today, is an embattled and divided city. T'wisting like a serpent through the middle of this "Holy Shrine" is the armored border between the Jewish and the Arab sectors. His is the battle line where the bitterly fought 1948 Palestinian War was stopped by the United Nations. Here, today, fully alerted and battle-ready soldiers patrol both sides of the city, ready, at a moment's notice, to shoot if the command is given. Only at one spot on this fortified border can a civilian or tourist cross from one sector to the other. This is at the Mandlebaum Gate, a no-man's-land check point, where crossings can be made only with special permission and virtually only in one direction. Jerusalem is the "Holy City,' not only for Christians but also for Jews and Moslems. For the Jews, this is the home of David and Solomon. It is also the place, on Mount Moriah, where Abraham came on instructions from the Lord to offer his son Isaac in sacrifice. It is their capital city and the place where the ancient prophets lived, preached, and died. For the Moslems, Jerusalem is one of the most important "Holy Cities" in their religion. It is second only to Mecca and Medina and is one of the shrines where every orthodox Moslem must visit, at least once in his lifetime, if he is true to his Islamic faith. Here is the "Dome of the Rock," one of Islam's most ancient and most beautiful mosques. It is believed to have been built over the site where Mohammed ascended to heaven. For Christians, Jerusalem and the area of Palestine is the Holy Land where Jesus lived and taught. It was here that he organized his Church, restored the Holy Priesthood, and challenged his disciples to a new way of life and service with the words, "come, follow me." A familiar greeting in the Israel sector of Jerusalem, when one meets or takes leave of a friend or acquaintance, is "shalom, shalom," meaning "peace, peace." Despite this greeting, there has been little peace in Jerusalem, and there is only an uncertain, troubled peace there now. Yet, the peace which Jesus tried so valiantly to establish there and throughout the world, can be found, if one truly seeks it. However, it is not peace as the world knows it. It is the spiritual and personal "peace" that Jesus urged and taught. He said, "Peace I leave unto you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid" (John 14:27) Even in its present and divided and embattled condition, Jerusalem is still a holy and sacred city. If people would follow the counsel of the righteous prophets who have preached and died there, and if they would accept the lessons that Jesus taught there nigh on to 2,000 years ago, Jerusalem would indeed be the "City of Peace." Page 596 Mabel Harmer HE old "stand-by" desserts — bread or rice puddings, and custards, are substantial and appetizing, without being too rich or too expensive. Given an occasional new twist, and the correct ingredients, they will appeal to the most discriminating and healthy appetite. Apple Pandowdy This is an American favorite since colonial days. 4 tart apples, sliced thin 1 c. Sifted flour 72 C. Sugar 1% tsp. Baking powder /, tsp. Cinnamon "4 tsp. Salt " tsp. Salt Y, c. Shortening " c. Molasses Vc. Milk 1/ 6 c. Hot water Fill an oblong dish with sliced apples. Mix sugar, cinnamon, and salt and sprinkle over apples. Combine molasses and hot water. Pour over apples. Bake in hot oven (425° F.) 25 minutes. Sift flour with baking powder and salt. Cut in shortening. Add milk. Knead lightly. Roll dough into a rectangle about 1% inch thick. Fit dough over apple mixture. Prick top with fork. Bake at 425° F. About 25 minutes. Serve warm with thin cream. Serves 8. Caramel Custard "" ¢. Sugar 6 eggs 2 tbsp. Boiling water "4 tsp. Salt 4 c. Milk 1 tsp. Vanilla Page 597 598 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 Heat the dry sugar in a small pan over low heat, stirring until it melts. Add two tablespoons of boiling water and pour it slowly into the milk, which has been scalded. Beat the eggs, add salt and vanilla, and slowly pour the milk mixture on them and stir. Bake at 350° for 40 minutes in a casserole set in a pan of hot water. The custard is done when a silver knife can be drawn clean through the center. Serves 8. Gingerbread Custard 2 egg yolks 1 pint milk, scalded "% c. Sugar 1 c. Gingerbread crumbs Beat the egg yolks, add sugar and scalded milk. Pour mixture over the gingerbread crumbs which have been placed in a buttered casserole. Place the dish in a pan of hot water and bake at 350° for one hour. A meringue may be made with the egg whites by mixing 4 tbsp. Sugar, % tsp. Vanilla and spreading it over the custard for the last 15 minutes of baking. Serves 5. Lemon Rice With Fruit Sauce "" |b. Prunes 1 tbsp. Cornstarch Y c. Seedless raisins % c. Sliced almonds 1% c. Water 1 c. Quick cooking rice 2 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 tbsp. Each of butter, sugar, and "2 ¢. Brown sugar grated lemon rind Cut up prunes and simmer with raisins and water for 5 minutes. Add the lemon juice and the combined sugar and cornstarch. Cook 5 minutes. Add almonds. Cook the rice with butter according to directions on the package. Fold in sugar and lemon rind. Pour fruit sauce over warm rice. Serves 4-6. Cinnamon Rice Snow "2 ¢. Quick rice 2 c. Shredded raw apples " tsp. Salt 2 tbsp. Sugar 1 tsp. Butter 2 tbsp. Lemon juice "2 ¢. Ted cinnamon candies 1 Cc. Whipping cream Cook rice with salt and butter. Add cinnamon candies. Cover and let stand for 10 minutes to melt candies. Mix and chill. Combine apples, sugar, and lemon juice and fold into rice. Add whipped cream. Chill. Serves 6. Toasty Prune Betty 1% c. Cooked prunes "% c. Sugar 4 c. Toasted bread cubes "2 tsp. Salt 1% c. Chopped apples "A tsp. Cinnamon 1 ¢. Prune liquid 2 tbsp. Butter *% c. Water Cut prunes into medium slices. Toast bread cubes in 450° oven until lightly browned. Place half of toasted bread cubes in buttered casserole. Add prunes in a layer, then apples, then remaining bread cubes. Combine liquids, sugar, salt, spice, and butter, and boil 2 or 3 minutes. Pour over bread cubes. Bake covered at 375° for one hour. Serves 6. FAMILY DESSERTS 599 _Apple Cake With Vanilla Sauce For cake: For sauce: % |b. Butter 4 egg yolks 3 ¢. Stale sponge cake crumbs 4 tbsp. Sugar or cracker crumbs 2 c. Heavy cream 2% c. Sweetened applesauce 2% tsp. Vanilla 2 tsp. Cinnamon Melt butter in a skillet. Add crumbs and cook over medium heat five minutes, stirring frequently. Butter an 8-inch square baking dish. Place layer of crumbs on bottom and add alternate layers of applesauce, cinnamon and crumbs. Bake in a 350° oven for thirty minutes. Let cool, then turn out of pan carefully. For the sauce, beat the egg yolks in the top of a double boiler. Add the sugar and beat. Scald 1% cups of the cream and add to yolks, beating constantly. Place over hot water and cook until thick, stirring. Remove from hot water, add vanilla and cool for one hour. Whip the remaining cream and fold into the sauce. Cut the cake in squares and serve with sauce. Serves 8-10. Raspberry Bread Pudding ' c. Butter 3 c. Bread crumbs % c. Sugar % tsp. Salt 3 cBes = beaten 3 tbsp. Raspberry jam 2 tbsp. Flour Cream the butter and sugar and add the well-beaten eggs. Add the flour, bread crumbs, salt, and jam. Mix well and pour into a buttered mold. Place in a large pan containing boiling water to a depth of 1% inches. Cover the pan and steam in a double boiler in a 275° oven for three hours. Serves 6. Coconut and Date Bread Pudding 3 c. Stale bread crumbs "" C. Sugar " c. Shredded coconut 2 c. Milk 24 c. Dates "2 tsp. Salt 2 eggs 1 tsp. Vanilla Put the stale bread crumbs, coconut, and dates in a buttered casserole. Beat the eggs, add the sugar, then the milk, salt, and vanilla. Pour this over the bread mixture and place in oven at 350° for 1% hours. Serve with cream. Serves 6. Plain Bread Pudding 1 quart milk % tsp. Salt 2 c. Stale bread cubes 1 tsp. Vanilla 3 eggs 3 tbsp. Butter "2 C. Sugar Scald the milk and pour it over the bread cubes. Let stand 10 minutes. Beat the eggs, add the sugar, salt, and vanilla. Put into buttered baking dish and add the milk and bread cubes. Add melted butter and stir. Place the dish in a pan of hot water. Bake at 350° for 1% hours. Serves 6. Do you have a baby? What you need is a bathtime coat of armor Make a Drip-Dry Apron Janet W. Breeze Got something at your house that's slippery as an eel and splashes like a fish? Must be a baby! What you need is a bathtime coat of armor. So make it — from one bath towel, plus one washcloth. When finished, you'll find that your terry-towel friend is not only a great dress protector, but can be lifted up and wrapped around that wee little wiggler as you take him from the tub. No baby? Give an apron as a gift! First of all, cut the washcloth into four equal strips. Two strips will serve as the belt; and the other two, sewn end to end, will form the long piece that goes around the neck. Now double your strips lengthwise, right sides together, and stitch each one along the long edge. Then turn right side out and overcast ends to prevent fraying. Baste pleats in the bath towel at the neck and waist to whatever width you prefer. Stitch one of the short strips into pleat on right side of waistline and one into pleat on left side of waistline. Use gripper fasteners to attach neck piece and to fasten the belt. Two sets of snaps make the apron adjustable. Cade D Page 601 'te hay joa a oe oa ¢ y Clara Partridge Stevens—Artist With Needle and Brush — Partridge Stevens, Salt Lake City, Utah, finds much happiness in her many hobbies of handwork and painting, and brings warmth to the hearts of her friends and family by sharing her handwork with them. She has crocheted four full-size tablecloths, two afghans, hundreds of doilies, and the lace for many pillowslips. She has crocheted bootees for her twenty-eight grandchildren and her thirty-one greatgrand-children, and has embroidered and finished temple aprons for all her children and all her granddaughters. She has lost count of the great number of quilts she has made for her family and friends and for Relief Society. Her oil paintings have given her creative joy and have won much appreciation and admiration. 'The painting shown above was made from a natural scene in Yellowstone National Park, Wyoming. Mrs. Stevens was born in Fillmore, Utah, a daughter of Edward Partridge, Jr., and Elizabeth Buxton Partridge. She is a granddaughter of Edward Partridge, the first bishop of the Church. She has been active in Relief Society for many years, as a teacher and as an expert quilter. As she approaches her eighty-ninth birthday (August 4, 1962), she still attends Sunday School, sacrament meeting, and Relief Society, where She still takes her place at the quilting frames. She keeps house for herself and her husband, works on genealogical research, and keeps busy with her crochet hook and knitting needles. Page 602 General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for '"'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Ree mrameaerarsneqie fir iar val fat woe fi ~ ie' Pee As BOUNTIFUL NORTH STAKE (UTAH), BOUNTIFUL FIFTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY PROGRAM, March 15, 1962 Left to right: Alene Grundy as Margaret A. Cook; Zona Prusse as Phebe Ann Hawks; Beth Ivers as Sophia Marks; Barbara Houghton as Leonora Taylor; Shirley Woodhouse as Sophia Robinson; Kay Smedley as Philinda Merrick; Elder Edwin Jardine as John Taylor; LaVeral Smith as Elvira A. Coles; Beth Porter as Phebe M. Wheeler; Bishop William Stacey as the Prophet Joseph Smith; Velma Stacey as Emma Hale Smith; Nadine Nielson as Sarah M. Cleveland; Marvel Jardine as Eliza R. Snow; Beth Woodward as Elizabeth Ann Whitney; Ralph Thompson as Willard Richards; Lile Day as Desdemona Fulmer; Carol Thompson as Bathsheba W. Smith; Evelyn Parry, reader; Gerda Hansen as Sarah M. Kimball; Hettie Knight as Martha Knight; Sylvia Pack as Sophia Packard. Dora P. Webb, President, Bountiful North Stake Relief Society, reports that beautiful programs were printed for this occasion, and the sisters who represented the members of the first Relief Society were attired in costumes representative of that time. A chorus sang "Messengers of Mercy." A special tribute to Leah P. Chapman, who passed away recently, was printed on the programs, representing Sister Chapman as a sister who "loved Relief Society." Eunice Van Orden is president of Bountiful Fifth Ward Relief Society, and her counselors are Fawn Kizerian and Vera Holbrook. Page 603 604 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 Boek.. Pe os 7; es OOS Re SOS 2 SLO hl SEP SES xe BLACKFOOT STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, April 1962 President Marie G. Baldwin is standing at the left in the second row; chorister Barbara Larson and organist Marilyn Dye, are standing at the left in the front row. Sister Baldwin reports that all nine wards of Blackfoot Stake were represented in this chorus and the Singing Mothers were most appreciative of the opportunity to present the music for quarterly conference. I. E WORK YOU DG < | ~ & & a ~ VISITING TEACMERS ' 2. Nv. E) NORTH SEVIER STAKE (UTAH) RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS VISITING TEACHERS AT CONVENTION AND VALENTINE DAY SOCIAL February 9, 1962 Front row, seated left to right: Esther Thalman, stake visiting teacher message leader; Stella Mason; Dee Rasmussen; Millie Martin; Bessie Miller; Lucy Nielson. Back row, standing, 'left to nght: Verona Gates; Bernece Mickelsen; Othella Herbert; Bernece Sorenson; Josephine Thompson; Virgie Nielson; Helen Noyes. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 605 Gladys O. Johnson, President, North Sevier Stake Relief Society, reports that a yalentine theme was followed in carrying out the arrangements for this lovely social: "We made a large valentine for the visiting teachers, which read: 'A Valentine For Yow, For the Wonderful Work You Do.' Our stake Singing Mothers presented the music, and a skit entitled 'Fruits of the Message' was presented by Brother and Sister Quentin Ottley and their family. Talks were given by Esther Thalman, and Clara Roberts, President, South Sevier Stake Relief Society, who was a special guest speaker. One hundred and forty-five sisters attended the convention. We paid special honor to eighteen sisters who had a one hundred per cent attendance at their visiting teacher meetings for the past year." aes ose LON HONORS RELIEF SOCIETY LEADERS AT ANNIVERSARY PARTY March 17, 1962 Left to right: Elder Harold R. Boyer, President, Monument Park Stake; General President of Relief Society, Belle S. Spafford; Velma N. Simonsen, former second counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society; Henrietta H. Young, President, Monument Park Stake Relief Society; May J. Dyer; Leone W. Doxey; Thelma S. Buchanan; Beverly J. Pond, President, Monument Park Twelfth Ward Relief Society. Sister Young reports: ""The Monument Park Twelfth Ward Relief Society held a birthday reception at their new chapel on March 17, 1962, honoring General President Belle S. Spafford; former second counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society Velma N. Simonsen; Leone W. Doxey, recently appointed First Counselor in the General Presidency of the Primary Association; May J. Dyer, and Thelma S. Buchanan, to which all members of the Relief Society and their husbands and other stake members were mvited. Sister Simonsen, Sister Dyer, and Sister Buchanan are wives of mission presidents recently returned to the Twelfth Ward after presiding over Relief Society in missions of the Church. Sister Pond and her counselors did much advance planning to make this a lovely affair. It was held on a Saturday between the hours of five and seven P. M., and refreshments were served in the beautifully decorated Relief Society room. In carrying out the theme 'Relief Society Is the Key to the Good Life,' attractive key chains were given to all the sisters who attended." 606 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 BOUNTIFUL STAKE (UTAH), BOUNTIFUL SIXTH WARD WORK MEETING PROJECTS, December 1961 Ivy W. Richins, President, Bountiful Stake Relief Society, submits the following report from the Bountiful Sixth Ward: "The Bountiful Sixth Ward Relief Society has had outstanding accomplishments for their work meeting projects during the past year. At the meeting represented in the picture, eighty women were active in craft work. There was a class in knitting, crocheting, and embroidery; one in flower and grains arrangement, and one in making Christmas wreaths. Other groups made plastic poodles and stuffed toys. Three quilts were being quilted. The Sixth Ward always has a quilt on hand for beginners only, where the young women of the ward can be taught the art of quilting. Their motto is: 'We have something of interest for eve woman in the ward.' Mildred Patterson is work meeting leader, and Ruby M. Smedley is president of Bountiful Sixth Ward Relief Society." we 9 Pua bs > Maps 4 wo Ha ROSE PARK STAKE, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT SPRING MUSICALE, March 29, 1962 Front row, seated: Ruth J. Harrison, President, Rose Park Stake Relief Society, first on the right; Ruth Murphy, First Counselor, fifth from the night; Clea Fowler, Second Counselor, fifth from the left; Marilyn Mecham, chorister, second from the right; Ruth Pack, organist, third from the right. Vauna Moosman, Secretary-Treasurer, is standing tenth from the right in the second row. Sister Harrison reports: "The Singing Mothers of Rose Park Stake presented a most enjoyable spring musicale, March 29th. With a theme "There's Music in the Air,' each of the ten wards was featured in an individual number, and all 175 members of the combined choruses sang two selections. The group has 261 children and grandchildren. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 609 FRENCH-POLYNESIAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETY BAZAAR, March 28, 1962 Standing in the picture is Ester Bennett, First Counselor in the French Polynesian Mission Relief Society, at the Hikueru Hao booth. The second tifaifai from the left sold for $110. Gabrielle Young, President, French-Polynesian Mission Relief Society, reports: "The French-Polynesian Mission Relief Society held an all-mission bazaar on the 28th of March. It was a big day, and all of the branches had sent their articles to Papeete. This was to see if an all-mission bazaar would not be more successful than holding many bazaars in the individual islands. The exposition started at nine o'clock in the morning, and the sale was at six o'clock in the evening. Meals were served at noon and in the evening. "The small articles were woven hats, bags, mats, fans, carvings, doilies, clothing, pillows and pillowcases, grass skirts, and some very artistic shell vases. Fifty very beautiful tifaifai (bed covers, with applique or crazy-quilt patterns) were also sold. The basketball court was divided into booths, with the name of each island in front, so that the customers could see from which island they were buying the articles. We were very proud to display a tifaifai which had won first prize in the territory-wide contest last July, and also the one which had taken first place for originality of design. A highest price paid for a tifaifai at the bazaar went to Hao, Tuamotu Branch, or $110. "The day was very rewarding, and the sisters have never had such a successful sale. Tourists and people from all Tahiti were in attendance, and the decision was made then and there that the mission-wide bazaar would be an annual affair. The total receipts for the day exceeded $2,000, and the morale of the sisters was boosted one hundred per cent." | neni nS neon N DEPARTMEN THEOLOGY The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 42 — "Engaged in a Good Cause" Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 58:15-65 ) For First Meeting, November 1962 Objective: To show that obedience to the Lord's commandments involves working for the cause of Zion. Introduction N the year 1831, the Prophet Joseph Smith received a revelation designating Independence, Jackson County, Missouri, as the site for the city of Zion or the New Jerusalem. Hundreds of years before this the Lord had decreed that his holy city to which the faithful would come in the last days, would shine forth as a light to beckon earth's inhabitants to accept the gospel. 'This city will become a capital of the world government when the Savior comes to establish his kingdom at the time of the millennium. Although the saints were driven from the center place of Zion, their belief in the restoration of the gospel, and their own inability, at that time, to live the gospel as required, brought about the persecutions which drove them from Missouri. (See Lesson 41.) Page 610 Notwithstanding what happened in 1834 when our people were ejected from Missouri, the promises of the Lord concerning that land are still to be fulfilled. 'The leadership of this Church has always understood and taught that the New Jerusalem will become all that the Lord has said it would be. President George Q. Cannon, one of the apostles close to the events of Missouri, expressed the feelings of the saints concerning these matters. After twenty years in the West, he said: We talk about going back to build up the centre stake [place] of Zion; it is the burden of our daily prayers. The aspirations of thousands of the people ascend in the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth [hosts] in behalf of the redemption of Zion, and that the purposes of God may be forwarded, and that the time may soon come when the centre stake [place] of Zion shall be built up and the people be prepared to go back and inhabit that LESSON DEPARTMENT land. Why do we wish this? Because we anticipate when that day shall come that we will be that much nearer the day of triumph, the day when Jesus will come and reign among his Saints... We look forward to that land with indesctibable feelings, because it is the place where God has said His City shall be built. It is the land where Adam, the Ancient of Days, will gather his posterity again, and where the blessings of God will descend upon them... (Journal of Discourses, 11:336-337). Preparations must be made for the building of Zion as commanded. The Lord revealed in this revelation (Section 58) why the saints should go to Missouri, beginning in 1831 as well as in the future. (See Lesson 41.) What is necessary today to realize the blessings of building the City of Zion? 'This question is answered in this lesson. President Cannon said:.. We expect when that day shall come that we will be a very different people to what we are today. We will be prepared to commune with heavenly beings; at any rate, the preparation will be going on very rapidly for Jesus to be revealed. We expect that a society: will be organized there that will be a pattern of heavenly society, that when Jesus and the heavenly beings who come with him are revealed in the clouds of heaven, their feelings will not be shocked by the change, for a society will be organized on the earth whose members will be prepared through the revelations of God to meet and associate with them, if not on terms of perfect equality, at least with some degree of equality (Journal of Discourses, mt: 3377). Edward Partridge Our discussion of Section 58 begins with verse 14 in which we are reminded that Edward Partridge, who received his appointment as bishop by revelation (D & C 41:9), was to place his full trust in the 611 things pertaining to the kingdom of God. This counsel is applicable to every person who has entered covenant relationship with God. Putting one's emphasis on worldly objects to the exclusion of God's purposes is to have "unbelief and blindness of heart" (Ibid., 58:15; D & C Commentary, pp. 338-339). Bishop Partridge's duties were known to him. He and _ bishops who have succeeded him are to be judges among the saints. He was to appoint to the saints their inheritances — land — as it was appointed in ancient Israel. (Cf. Exodus 18:13.) The bishop is "to judge his people by the testimony of the just, and by the assistance of his counselors, according to the laws of the kingdom which are given by the prophets of God" (D & C 58:18). In order for the Lord's representative, the bishop in this case, to understand his position as a judge, the law of the Church (Section 42) is to be his guide in morals and plans for the welfare of the members. (See D & C 58:19.) No bishop, however, should consider that he is a "ruler." The only ruler in the kingdom of God is Jesus Christ. Officiators in his kingdom are servants. (Ibid., 58:20.) The Law of the Land Not only are the saints of God to accept the rulership of Christ and to follow his divinely appointed servants, but, they should be obedient to the laws of the land. Let no man break the laws of the land, for he that keepeth the laws of God hath no need to break the laws of the land (D & C 58:21). 612 The principle of law observance did not have its origin in this dispensation. Obedience to law is necessary that order and_ stability may exist. Judges who administered the law were known among ancient Israel. In Moses' day a just judgment was to be meted to those who transgressed the law. (Deut. 16:18; I Chron. 23:4.) Elder James E. Talmage pointed out how Chiist acknowledged the existing laws of the land, both Jewish and Roman, although the Roman law was sometimes exercised unjustly. A strong case for obedience to law was given by Jesus when he performed a miracle to provide tax money. (Articles of Faith, page 416.) The wellknown reply to those who attempted to trap the Messiah as one who stood against the ruling powers was: "... Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's; and unto God the things that are God's" (Matt. 22:21). The apostles followed their Master's example in teaching that observance of the law of the land was necessary for the full living of the religious life. (Acts 23:1-5; Titus 3:1; Rom. 13:1-7; I Tim. 2:1-3; I Peter 2:13-17. For the application of these and other examples, consult James E. Talmage, Articles of Faith, pp. 418-421.) As for our dispensation, by revelation and instruction from the leaders of the Church, the message is clear—to be a Latter-day Saint strict observance of the law of God and the law of the land is imperative. The Twelfth Article of Faith is well known to all (Ibid., page 3; Pearl of Great Price, page 60.) Obedience to law is a test of a RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 man's religion. As Elder Talmage expressed it: Religion is essentially a matter of everyday life. It has as much to do with the adjustment of the individual to his material environment as with his abstract belief in matters spiritual, A man's religion should be a concrete demonstration of his conceptions concerning God and the Divine purposes respecting himself and his fellows. Anything less lacks both the form of godliness and the power thereof. Loyal citizenship is at once a characteristic and a test of a man's religion; and as to the incumbent duties of citizenship, the voice of the people, as expressed through the established channels of government, must determine (The Vitality of Mormonism, 1948( pp. 180-181). That the Constitution of the United States was divinely established and thus to be obeyed by its citizens is a revealed part of our religion. (D & C 98:4-10; 101:76-80.) Subsequent lessons will consider Sections 98 and 101 and the Latterday Saint beliefs concerning details of law observance. Christ Shall Reign Distinctive in Latter-day Saint belief is our understanding of the eventual reign of Christ on the earth. The following verse carries the same truth expressed in the Tenth Article of Faith: Wherefore, be subject to the powers that be, until he reigns whose nght it Is to reign, and subdues all enemies under his feet (D & C 58:22). When the Savior returns to the earth in power, his kingdom will be established. The inauguration of his rule will bring all of his enemies under control. Some of these enemies of God and man are tyranny, despotism, other evils of Satan, and LESSON DEPARTMENT for man, the last enemy, death. (1 Cor. 15:26-28.) When the King of Kings comes, there will be no other king. (_D & C 38:21-22.) When that glorious day comes, earth's inhabitants will be governed by laws which are righteous; freedom will then be enjoyed by all. Latter-day Saints, Law-Abiders In order that no Latter-day Saint shall misunderstand his obligation to the law of the land and the law of the gospel, the revelation continues: Behold, the laws which ye have received from my hand are the laws of the church, and in this light ye shall hold them forth. Behold, here is wisdom D & C 58:23). To Be Commanded in All Things? The next several verses of Section 58 (verses 24-33) are directed to Edward Partridge, his counselors, and Sidney Gilbert (D & C 57:69) to attend to their assignments in Missouri. Important instruction to these brethren are (1) that they are not to be commanded in all things; (2) they must have initiative; (3) they have power within themselves to do much good; and (4) the revocation of commandments by God and loss of blessings. As we examine these scriptures it is apparent that the Lord desires all men to know these principles because they apply to all. For behold, it is not meet that I should command in all things; for he that is compelled in all things, the same is a slothful and not a wise servant; wherefore he receiveth no reward (Ibid., 58:26). The underlying principle in this scripture is that man is a free agent. 613 In all stages of his endless life, man exercises his right of choice. Among the many prophets discoursing on this aspect of man's life was Lehi. (2 Nephi 2:16, 26-27.) Elder James E.. Talmage wrote: The predominant attribute of justice, recognized as part of the divine nature, forbids the thought that man should receive promises of reward for righteousness, and threats of punishment for evil deeds, if he possessed no power of independent action. It is no more a part of God's plan to compel men to work nghteousness than it is His purpose to permit evil powers to force His children into sin. (Articles of Faith, page 53). Given his free agency, why should man be compelled in all things? Man grows by exercising his right to solve his own problems. There would be no growth if man were to act only as an automaton or robot. Guidance, however, eliminates waste of time and energy. When a person has a position in the Lord's kingdom, it is expected that he will use his initiative and not be told precisely what to do in all things. Some people do only the bare minimum required of them without exercising their talents beyond duty. He is a slothful servant lacking in wisdom who expects to be compelled in all things. The good that men do will live after them. 'Their righteous purposes will bring a sure reward from the Father who knows all and will judge all men by their works. (See D & C 19:3.) Power Is Within Men Verily I say, men should be anxiously engaged in a good cause, and do many things of their own free will, and bring to pass much righteousness; 614 For the power is in them, wherein they are agents unto themselves. And_inasmuch as men do good they shall in nowise lose their reward. But he that doeth not anything until he is commanded, and receiveth a commandment with doubtful heart, and keepeth it with slothfulness, the same is damned (D & C 58:27-29). It is true that men should engage themselves in causes which contribute to the happiness of their fellow men. Only the Church, however, is committed to programs that advance man's joy, and is able to give him happiness in the eternities to come. At the time this revelation was given, the saints were commanded to lay the foundation of Zion. (Ibid., verses 6-7.) Counsel regarding this had been given at the beginning of this dispensation. If one would seek "to bring forth and establish the cause of Zion," and seek for wisdom then the mysteries of the kingdom would be his and, if faithful, eternal life. (Ibid., 6:6-7. ) Diligent service based upon a true desire to build up the cause of Zion is accepted by the Lord. Weak faith or a doubting heart brings weak effort characterized as slothful. Is This the Work of God? Some people believe that because blessings are not answered on their heads, although a try may have been made at keeping the commandments, although not fully and only half-heartedly, the Lord's promises are not fulfilled. To such, as well as to all, the Lord addressed some questions: Who am I that made man, saith the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 Lord, that will hold him guiltless that obeys not my commandments? Who am I, saith the Lord, that have promised and have not fulfilled? I command and men obey not; I revoke and they receive not the blessing. Then they say in their hearts: This is not the work of the Lord, for his promises are not fulfilled. But woe unto such, for their reward lurketh beneath, and not from above (D & C 58:30-33). The important question for every Latter-day Saint is, "Am I living the commandments so _ faithfully that the Lord will bless me as I am entitled to his blessings? On the other hand, should I complain against my Maker because of my own lack of diligence?" The lesson to be learned by all is found in this significant comment: The Saints sometimes fail to do their duty and to keep the commandments of God. But they expect Him to make good to them the promises He has given to the faithful. If He does not, they complain. They neglect their prayers; they absent themselves from their meetings; they break the Word of Wisdom; they withhold their tithing; but when sickness comes and falls like a dark, terrifying shadow across their path, they expect immediate Divine interference in their behalf, through the administration of the Elders. If their expectations are not realized, they say, in a rebellious spirit, "His promises are not fulfilled." The reply of the Lord to that is, "Their reward lurketh beneath." They must look "beneath" for their reward; they have no claim on heaven (D & C Commentary, page 340). If the saints have an opportunity to live a commandment to further their eternal progression and they fail, or conditions develop which LESSON DEPARTMENT do not allow them to keep that commandment, the law may be revoked, or put in abeyance, until the saints are able to live the commandments. An example is the law of consecration, studied in an earlier lesson. (Lesson 28, Relief Society Magazine, October, 1960.) In ancient Israel, the Lord, through Moses, sought to give his people higher laws, but they refused them. As a result, a lesser law was given, and thus Israel lost its great opportunity at that time. Further Directions Concerning Zion The remainder of this revelation (58:34-65) deals with specific direc- 615 tions to some elders and also to the members of the Church concerning Zion. Counsel to these individuals is applicable to all members of the Church as a warning not to fall into similar errors. Questions for Discussion 1. Review the greatness of the New Jerusalem to come and the expectations of the Latter-day Saints regarding that place. 2. Develop a scriptural case for obedience to the law of the land. 3. Why does not the Lord command in all things? 4. Discuss: The most important work in which one can engage is working for the cause of Zion. VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 42 — "He Who Doeth the Works of Righteousness Shall Receive His Reward" (D & C 59:23). Christine H. Robinson For First Week, November 1962 Objective: To describe specific qualities and works which help to build righteous living. N this quotation from The Doctrine and Covenants, marvelous blessings are promised to those who are righteous. The Lord says that, "he who doeth the works of righteousness shall receive his re- _ ward, even peace in this world, and eternal life in the world to come" (D & C 59:23). The word righteousness is used extensively throughout the scriptures and is a word which all of us feel that we understand. Yet, when we speak of a person as being righteous, are we thinking in specific or in general terms? Do we know the specific qualities or. "works" of which righteousness is composed? 616 If we seek to do the works of righteousness, how can we develop the qualities which will lead to such works? A good description of a righteous person is to be found in the Old Testament in David's first psalm which. States, "Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord; and in his Jaw doth he meditate day and night" (Psalms 1:1-2). In the New 'Testament, the Lord's Sermon on the Mount outlines most clearly the specific qualities of righteousness. Some of the more important of these are love, meekness, mercy, pureness of heart and mind, peacemaking, forgiveness, tolerance, chastity, faithfulness, constancy, prayerfulness, kindness, charity, humility, and benevolence. 'This is a rather inclusive list and one which, offhand, might appear overpowering. Nevertheless, we can find comfort and assurance in the fact that we will be moving toward the desired goal of righteous living if we are doing conscientiously all we can to practice these virtues in our lives. One of the choice examples which shows the effects of nghteous living is found in Fourth Nephi in the Book of Mormon. Following the Savior's. Visit with the Nephite peoples and the establishment of his church among them, the people lived in righteousness for approximately 200 years. During this period, "... They did walk after the commandments which they had received from their Lord." And "|.. There was no contention in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 the land, because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the people. And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults and surely there could not be a happier people among all the people who had been created by the hand of God.... And how blessed were they! For the Lord did bless them in all their doings' (4 Nephi 12, 15-16, 18). No nation and no community is any stronger than the righteousness of the individuals of which it is composed. 'This was true during the two-hundred year period after the Savior's visit to the American Continent and it is true today. Another Nephite prophet said, "if there be no righteousness there be no happiness" (2 Nephi 2:13). How can we individually do the works of righteousness and thus lay the foundation for happiness and peace in our own lives? We can practice a little more kindness. We can show more love and consideration to our families, friends, and neighbors. We can be tolerant and charitable and, through prayer, we can seek more diligently our Father in heaven's divine will. The practice of these and other qualities of righteousness will bring us more peace of mind and more joy of living. President George Albert Smith stated this basic truth beautifully when he said: "Surely there is nothing men need more than the blessing of peace and happiness and hearts free from fear. The Lord [has] repeated what he has said so many times, the price of peace and happiness is righteousness" (Brigham Young University Address, December 1949). WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 2 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Well Organized (Part II) Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, November 1962 Objective: To show that our family values are learned by working toward establishing goals. ET us start this discussion by having our hidden panel* give a brief review of our Family Values Test. Questions for the panel: 1. What do we mean by Latter-day Saint family values? 2. Why should homemakers measure their values? 3. How can the family values test be a starting point for setting family goals? 4. Give practical ideas about ways in which family values are learned. Our Latter-day Saint family values are learned; they are not inherited. 'They become a part of each. Day's activities and a part of the life of each family member. They build within us spiritual strength, morality, human dignity, creativeness, inventiveness, productivity, and satisfying family living. Through these values we can become an example to the rest of the world. We must know our values before we set our goals. See how this works: if health is important to you, but you cannot answer "yes" to all these items about health that are listed on the Family Values Test, then these items may become your goals. Likewise, you will find other goals as you examine the ten values on the test. The home manager, while having all the major family values in mind, can make a priority listing of goals. She will make progress faster if she concentrates on one goal at a time. She may decide that her family should be healthier and happier, so this week she will do her utmost to make mealtime the highlight in each dav's experience. If she concentrates on this, she will find that planning meals for the week, shopping for the week, and organizing her work so that much of the preparation is done ahead of time, will free her to freshen up before sitting *Assigned panel members are seated in the audience rather than as a group around the table. As the leader asks a question, the assigned "hidden" panel member rises and comments. Another panel member in another part of the room follows quickly. Nonpanel members may join in after the main points have been considered. Page 617 618 down to the table, and she will have some moments to think about pleasant table talk to enrich each meal experience. Mastering all of these skills will take more than a week, perhaps more than a year, but if she concentrates on them long enough to work out a system with all the family co-operating, she will gradually develop a routine that will be second nature to her and her family. The new goal might grow out of her need for greater convenience in preparing meals. One homemaker found that her cupboards were filled with gadgets that she seldom used, and those she used most were not conveniently located. She put everything from her kitchen cupboards on the back porch. As she needed an item, she would bring it in and put it in the place where she used it. By the end of the week she still had most of the items on the back porch! 'Those that she had brought in helped her to work out a more convenient way of storing everyday equipment, and the seldom-used items were put away from the main working area. She selected some compact work centers for specific jobs, where the much-used equipment found its new home. The sink center was the place for cleaning vegetables and other foods, and for washing dishes, so the cuoking tools and equipment used first at the sink were stored there. She arranged for more counter space on each side of the sink by bringing up an old table from the basement; she planned for garbage disposal under the sink; and provided places for dish-washing equipment and supplies, and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 for all of the foods used at the sink first. Her dishes were put into the cupboard at the left of the sink because she washed them from right to left. When she had finished this one job, she had taken an important step in organizing her home by having everything at the sink that was used there first. Then she started on the cooking center. Since this is the place where food is cooked and made ready for serving, she decided to store everything used first at the range in that place.: This included pans, cooking kettles, lids, and serving dishes and tools. Nearby were the cereals, noodles, and seasonings. Her husband helped her with the third center, for mixing and food preparation. This is the area where all foods are prepared for cooking, chilling, or freezing. She located this work area between the sink and the refrigerator and was able to get three feet of counter space on two different levels, one for "stand-up" work and one for "sit-down" jobs. All of the foods, cooking tools, and equipment used first at this place were stored there. Baking tins, casseroles, packaged and canned foods, as well as mixing tools and equipment, had a special place. The simple task of organizing the kitchen cupboards caused _ this homemaker to send for information about kitchen planning which she was able to get from the extension service and the local library. Her enthusiasm spread to other members of her family. 'They were soon helping her in getting a smoother production line for the preparation of food and in making the kitchen a more attractive and pleasant place | LESSON DEPARTMENT in which to work. A space at the end of the kitchen was provided for children's play; the walls were painted and a new light fixture was put in the ceiling; better ventilation was provided, the wiring was checked to make sure that electrical equipment would be safe to use. 'There were comfortable working heights for standing and for sitting, and all of this started from trying to figure out where to put the utensils that are used first at each of the three major kitchen centers. The results were a place for everything and everything could now be easily kept in its place. 619 Thoughts for Discussion 1. Discuss the advantages of an orderly home. 2. What can be done to organize dresser drawers and closets? Exhibit some box dividers and other storage items that will improve organization. 3. Discuss the advantages of having duplicate cleaning supplies in different parts of the house, such as in the bathroom, kitchen, and laundry area. 4. Give suggestions for storage of a. Towels, soap, and other needed items in the bathroom. B. Detergents and other items needed in doing the family laundry. C. Children's toys. LITERATURE America's Literature The New Birth of Freedom Lesson 34 — Henry David Thoreau — Individualist Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature, by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 471-495). For Third Meeting, November 1962 Objective: To relive some of Thoreau's words, that we may feel the force of his integrity and independence. T was not until 1890, almost thirty years after his death, that Thoreau was truly evaluated in print, by Henry S. Salt, significantly an English biographer. Until well into the twentieth century the majority of his fellow Americans felt him to be an eccentric troublemaker, who, although he had written some nice nature-pieces, predominantly made his readers dissatisfied; therefore he was to be avoided. Although Thoreau's admirers wrote tributes to his memory, they could not detach themselves sufficiently from Victorian complacency and materialism to realize that while their beliefs and culture patterns 620 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 A Perry Picture THOREAU'S HOME, CONCORD, MASSACHUSETTS were crumbling, Thoreau's stern denunciations of worldly wealth and group cowardice were gradually being read by more people everywhere. Thoreau, Craftsman Many have been attracted to Thoreau by his idealism, perhaps stated the most purely in "Higher Laws," a chapter in Walden: Our whole life is startlingly moral. There is never an instant's truce between virtue and vice. Goodness is the only investment that never fails (page 223). Defining all sensuality as but one gross appetite yielded to in various forms, Thoreau likewise defines all purity as one; thus all forms of purity are but variants of chastity, which is the flowering of man; and what are called Genius, Heroism, Holiness, and the like, are but various fruits which succeed it. Man flows at once to God when the channel of purity is open.... If you would be chaste, you must be temperate.... Nature is hard to be overcome, but she must be overcome. What avails it that you are Christian, if you are not purer than a heathen, if you deny yourself no more, if you are not more religious?...... Every man is the builder of a temple, called his body, to the god he worships, after a style purely his own, nor can he get off by hammering marble instead. We are all sculptors and painters, and our material is our own flesh and blood and bones. Any nobleness begins at once to refine a man's features, any meanness or sensuality to imbrute them (Ibid., pp. 224-225). Many have gradually come to esteem 'Thoreau's contribution to their own lives, for honestly telling them the price they must pay if they are to advance toward their ideals. He shows them how — first of all in | LESSON DEPARTMENT his own personal life, then by writing them his method, by giving them of himself in an_ integrity of thought, deed, and word. The writing which resulted from this integration of the author and _ his thought produces sentences packed with power, as exemplified by the following excerpts from the chapter "Conclusion" in Walden.... If you would learn to speak all tongues and conform to the customs of all nations... Obey the precept of the old philosopher, and Explore thyself.... If a man does not keep pace with his companions, perhaps it is because he hears a different drummer. Let him step to the music which he hears, however measured or far away. It is not important that he should mature as soon as an apple-tree or an oak. No face which we can give to a matter will stead us so well at last as the truth. This alone wears well.... Any truth is better than make-believe.... Love your life, poor as it is. You may perhaps have some pleasant, thrilling, glorious hours, even in a poorhouse. The setting sun is reflected from the windows of the almshouse as brightly as from the rich man's abode.... The town's poor seem to me often to live the most independent lives of any.... Sell your clothes and keep your thoughts. God will see that you do not want society.... It is life near the bone where it is sweetest.... Superfluous wealth can buy superfluities only. Money is not required to buy one necessary of the soul. Rather than love, than money, than fame, give me truth (page 331). Such meaty prose exemplifies the uniqueness of genius; these sentences are as individual and as memorable as Thoreau himself. 'They are the man. Others through time have expressed similar ideas, nor has 621 Thoreau a monopoly on integrity, rare indeed though it may be. But it is his sentences which are his own, embracing and quickening all with carefully chosen words. Thus Thoreau attained perennial youth by creating immortal sentences, mirrors of his very self. These he recorded in his journals, polishing, reordering, condensing them later into his lectures and books. And, like everything else about him, Thoreau's theory of composition was uncompromising and noble; the hard, muscular sentences which give his pages their sustained intensity prove how thoroughly he applied his own critical principles of how to write. Some of his statements follow: 1. The one great rule of composition — and if I were a professor of rhetoric, I should insist on this — is to speak the truth. This first, this second, this third: pebbles in your mouth or not. 2. A sentence should read as if its author, had he held a plow instead of a pen, could have drawn a furrow deep and straight to the end. 3. Good writing is conversation folded many times thick. 4. It is the height of art that, on first perusal, plain common sense should appear; on the second, severe truth; third, beauty; and having these warrants for its depth and reality, one may then enjoy the beauty for evermore. Even the sentences which state his theories are themselves "rooted in fact and experience." They ring true when dropped on hard ground. Thoreau's Economics Although Thoreau had a keen sense of humor, he never played at life, which for him was far too serious an affair to be treated lightly. 622 True son of the Puritans that he was, Thoreau in deep moral earnestness felt that the great goal of mortality was to achieve here and now the greatest joy in living fully the precious gift of life. And the best life he considered to be attainable only through self-discipline and education, completely free of any bondage or self-slavery which might violate the most precious freedoms guaranteed to man under the laws of a most benevolent Nature. Thoreau's masterpiece Walden is one of the most self-conscious works of literature ever written. In its first great chapter, "Economy" (see text, pages 473-484), Thoreau makes his position quite clear. He knew exactly what he was doing, and the high price he would have to pay when he pointed out so bluntly to his money-hungry, materialistic contemporaries their selfcreated slavery to worldly possessions. But while they squandered their freedom to seek life's highest goals, Thoreau forcefully exercised his precious freedom to point out their sin, aware that freedom never brings security but opportunity. And for Thoreau the opportunity which freedom granted those who were truly free, was the opportunity to "suck the marrow out of life" and to learn that "life is sweetest nearest the bone." He pointed out how man blunts the finest qualities of his nature by making himself into a machine and because men have willfully turned "luxuries into necessities," and have "become the tools of their tools," their material needs do not serve them but tyrannize them. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 In fear of this master they have become desperate and cowed. "Public opinion is a weak tyrant compared with our own private opinion. What a man thinks of himself, that it is which determines, or rather indicates, his fate." After remarking that he saw everywhere about him his fellows repenting of their sins in a thousand remarkable and endless ways, Thoreau attributed their self-imposed slavery to tradition and to things. He believed that although "God himself culminates in the present moment, and will never be more divine in the lapse of all the ages," men are so pressed by economic need that they cannot detect his presence, either within themselves or in Nature. As Thoreau looked at man, man never permits himself time to live, so desperate, so resigned is he: Why should we live with such hurry and waste of life? We are determined to be starved before we are hungry. Men say that a stitch in time saves nine, and so they take a thousand stitches today to save nine tomorrow. (See text, page 486. ) If we are divine, and the culmination of God's goodness, "If the engine whistles, let it whistle till it is hoarse for its pains. If the bell rings, why should we run?" In contrast Thoreau advised his fellows to spend their days as deliberately as does Nature, which he himself did at Walden Pond. We must remove or minimize the pressure of material needs by "lowering the denominator," by keeping our accounts on our thumbnails, by learning that we must "simplify! >?! Simplify Only then will our LESSON DEPARTMENT worship of things no longer "cost more than it comes to." Only then will we have freed ourselves of those self-created pressures of materialism, both individually and within our groups, which preoccupy our lives and prevent us from growing in the higher realms wherein our true potentials lie. If the doctrine of self-reliance, about which Emerson wrote so sincerely, was sound, how far could one carry it? The best way to find out was to try — to experiment by eliminating as many non-essentials as possible. 'Therefore, Thoreau built his cabin at Walden Pond that he might test the validity of this theory. Thoreau's Walden exemplifies the complete correspondence between word and deed which Emerson theorized about but did not achieve; in its defiance of traditional opinions and values Walden is self-reliance. 'Throughout its pages Thoreau feared no man's, no group's opinion save his own. In Thoreau's book the only _ true wealth is life, the only luxury worth coveting is the luxury of integrity. No American writer has spoken of integrity as truly as he; consequently, no words are more American than his. He began his "Walden" experiment on July 4, 1845, which he said, "by accident, was on Independence Day." Civil Disobedience In 1839, when but twenty-two years of age, Thoreau wrote in his Journal, "Verily, to be brave is the beginning of victory." We could not expect Thoreau to be anything but independent throughout his life, and so he was. And while his 623 forward, sometimes tart statements of his beliefs often brought him in conflict with some of his contemporaries, constantly he had his reward in knowing that he was free; that never need he doubt whether he served himself or the opinions of others whom he might have cause to fear. Ten years later, in 1849, he published the essay "Resistance to Civil Government," later retitled "Civil Disobedience." From this paper Mohandas Gandhi received his principle of passive resistance which he employed so effectively in India; its influence has been world wide. In this important essay, which represents Thoreau's theory of government, are to be found piercing questions which are neither easy to answer nor to ignore, such as those raised by the following quotations: Can there not be a government in which majorities do not virtually decide right and wrong, but conscience? Must the citizen ever for a moment, or in the least degree, resign his conscience to the legislator? Why has every man a conscience, then? It is truly enough said that a corporation has no conscience; but a corporation of conscientious men is a corporation with a conscience. As Thoreau turned to the world of nature for the lifespring of his thought, so thousands of his readers return to his writings for ideas that may enrich their own. Some of his well-remembered observations follow: 1. As if you could kill time without injuring eternity. 2. Most of the luxuries and many of the so-called comforts of life are not 624 only not indispensable, but positive hindrances to the elevation of mankind. 3. There are a thousand hacking at branches of evil to one who is striking at the root. 4. It is a characteristic of wisdom not to do desperate things. 5. The fate of the country... Does not depend on what kind of paper you drop into the ballot box once a year, but on what kind of man you drop from your chamber into the street every morning. 6. How many a man has dated a new era in his life from the reading of a book. 7. I never found the companion that was so companionable as solitude. We are for the most part more lonely when we go abroad among men than when we stay in our chambers. A man_ thinking or working is always alone, let him be where he will. 8. Men will le on their backs, talking about the fall of man and never make an effort to get up. G. Nothing is so much to be feared as fear. 10. The mass of men lead lives of quiet desperation. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 11. Our life is frittered away by detail.... Simplify! Simplify! 12. I know of no more encouraging fact than the unquestionable ability of man to elevate his life by a conscious endeavor. 13. Solitude is not measured by the miles of space which intervene between a man and his fellows. Thus, this man of essential kindness has left through his Walden and other writings, many signposts toward a philosophy of human happiness. 'There are digressions into the flight of geese, the way of rivers, and the sounds of night; but always a superb blending of nature with the life of man. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Discuss the relationship between what Thoreau said and how he said it. 2. What points in Thoreau's economic theory are outmoded? Which are still true? 3. Which of his aphorisms appeal most to you? Supplication Catherine B. Bowles Give me strength to fight life's battle, Strength to help another's need, Strength to frustrate all temptation, And the hungry hearts to feed; Strength to help the mina refuse All the dross and keep the gold, Strength to live each day atoning ~ That I may live within his fold. SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Foundation of Church Government Lesson 2 — Divine Law and Human Welfare Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, November 1962 Objective: To make clear that divine law was made for the benefit and welfare of God's children. E, have discussed in Lesson 1 how, through his Son, God established divine law on earth by which man can attain the full purpose of his creation. Revelation has provided the pattern of human conduct essential to man's perfection. 'The scriptures contain evidence to the effect that every part of the creation by the Lord was for the elevation and welfare of humanity. From sacred literature we learn that God, through his Son, created everything upon the earth — the plants of every variety, all things that live in the water, all life that lives upon the earth and in the air. ",.. And I, God, saw that all these things were good" (Moses 2:25). Then God said to his Only Begotten, "... Let us make man in our image, after our likeness; and it was so " (Moses 2:26). Then God gave "them" (male and female) dominion over all of his creations. 'And I, God, blessed them, and said unto them: Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth" (Moses 2:28). The creation was accomplished by divine law and for the benefit of man. "And out of the ground made I, the Lord God, to grow every tree, naturally, that is pleasant to the sight of man; and man could behold it " (Moses 3:9). God brought all living things to Adam to be named. He placed "them" in the garden where all the useful and lovely products of creation were in abundance for their use, restricting only the eating of the fruit of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, but even in this allowing them the privilege of choice. After their decision to eat of the fruit, thus departing from divine counsel, they were face to face with the great opportunity to subdue the earth and to have dominion over it. But conquering the earth was not the major objective of the creation of man. Conquering himself was his greatest challenge. This was to be accomplished with directions furnished through divine law. In the Image of God It is quite common for us to say Page 625 626 "the boy is the image of his father" meaning his physical appearance. When the scripture quotes the Savior as saying "he that hath seen me hath seen the Father" our thoughts deal basically with the physical image. But the statement in Genesis 1:27, "So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them," has a meaning of far greater significance than the physical likeness to the Father, though this feature is very true. "In the image of God" must surely have reference, in some degree, to all of the characteristics and attributes of God the Eternal Father. Some of God's characteristics and attributes are: (1) God knows all things concerning his creations. To man has been given the power to acquire knowledge, to do reflective thinking, and, through the processes of evaluation and reasoning, make decisions, choices, and selections in dealing with the problems of living. Thus, through experience and study, man may progress toward "all knowledge." Joseph Smith tells us that "the mind or the intelligence which man possesses is co-equal [co-eternal] with God himself" (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 353). Mortal life is to provide a training ground for the development of this intelligence. 'The rules governing this development are the divine revelations God has given. (2) God has all power. To man has been delegated the power to act in the name of God as his representative on earth. As man proves himself worthy, the Pniesthood is conferred upon him. As he increases in knowledge and performs with honor the responsibiliRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 ties of his Priesthood callings, he can continue his progression toward the power of Godhood. The Priesthood is the power by which worlds were and are created, that is, organized and brought into a related order. 'The Priesthood, therefore, is a creative force entrusted to man in increasing proportions as his progress in righteousness increases. (3) God is love. Jesus said the first and great commandment is to love God, "And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets" (Matt. 22:39-40). We have also been taught that we cannot love God whom we have never seen if we cannot love our fellow men with whom we associate daily. Love is a most powerful force in the universe. It is the only force that can bring peace to the world. No atom or hydrogen bomb is powerful enough to bring peace to mankind. Bombs produce fear, hatred, and prejudice. Love of God and fellow men is the only means of touching the hearts of people so they can live together in peace. (4) Still another divine attribute included, certainly, "in the image of God" is spirituality. It has to do with the operation of the divine influence in the everyday life of an individual. Spirituality is the degree of influence of the spirit of God that is in the heart. From this very brief and limited reference to the intensity and magnitude of the personality and character of God, we may conclude that the image of God referred to in the creation of man includes not only the physical likeness but a potential LESSON DEPARTMENT likeness to all of the many attributes of the Father. With the possession and the expression of these attributes, man is in a favorable position to receive the divine law. The law itself is the direction and guidance that the Father has provided to assist his children in living the full life through stimulating them to the development of their greatest possibilities. Man being the offspring of Deity, he must surely have the potential of Godhood. The Plan of Salvation We have referred to the purpose of the creation of this world as a place designed for the blessings of mankind. We have also seen that the Creator gave to man, as his spiritual offspring, godlike attributes by which he could subdue the world and have dominion over every living thing. This was not a chance arrangement but part of a welldefined plan. God's plan for mankind includes at least three spheres of activity. Of the first or premortal existence, we have limited knowledge. But we do know that God is the Father of our spirits; that these spirits met in a great council in heaven and accepted the Father's plan of action whereby they could attain a physical body and have a chance to develop through the experiences of mortality. All spirits who have been and will be privileged to come to this earth were there. The second phase of the plan deals with mortality. The spirit children receive physical bodies and, at the same time, forget their experiences of the premortal world. Without the awareness of the 627 spiritual experience, man is free to examine, evaluate, and choose that which he will do. However, from the beginning of this earthly activity, the Lord has made available to man his divine will. In the Doctrine and Covenants, Section 88:5-14, we are informed that Jesus Christ the Son of God is "the light of truth" and that this light is in all the creation, "even the earth upon which you stand The light which is in all things, which giveth life to all things, which is the law by which all things are governed, even the power of God who sitteth upon his throne, who is in the bosom of eternity, who is in the midst of all things" (D & C 88:10, 13). In Section 130:20-21, it is written that "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated — And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." The third phase of the plan deals with life after mortal death. Here again, our knowledge is limited. However, with the manifestations given to modern prophets, the testimony of the scriptures, and the witness of the Holy Ghost promised to the faithful, a life after death is as certain as the fact that night follows the day. Let us look more intimately at the second phase of the plan. Our primary interest in these lessons deals with mortality. We are concerned with the operation of divine law in the growth and development of human beings. In D & C 88:34, we read "And again, verily I say unto you, that which is governed by law is also preserved by law and perfect- 628 ABIDE WITH ME; 'TIS EVENTIDE—Madsen GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Spofford, and AS ANGELS IN HEAVEN— Schreiner ___ - ---------------- JESU, JOY OF MAN'S DESIRING—Bach - LET NOT YOUR SONG END— Ci LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens.20 LORD IS MY SHEPHERD— Smart ---------ecee-eeeeceeeees LORD'S PRAYER—Gates LORD'S PRAYER—Malotte MY SOUL IS ATHIRST FOR GOD—Madsen 30 25 25.20.20 25 Madsen UNTO THEE | LIFT MINE EYES—Beethoven VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS— Saar - 0e ee -- Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank 25 DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. Name [1 On Approval [] Charge LJ Money Enclosed Ce errr rrr rrr tr try Oe ce wee mene wa een me new nw enaccescccececeencanesacesss 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 ed and sanctified by the same." This is further evidence that the intent of divine law is for the advancement and development of human beings. Beginning of the Plan As has been previously pointed out, God placed Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. They were directed to people the earth. They were also informed that partaking of the forbidden fruit would make them subject to death but the choice was left to them. Knowing his children and being fully aware of the force of evil in the world, the Lord in his wisdom had made preparation in his plan for redeeming man from the fall. Jesus Christ the Son of God, having power over death through his Father, had accepted the responsibility of breaking the bands of death by giving up his own life for the sins of the world. It is important to note that it was his choice. He gave his life. No one took it from him. From the very beginning the plan was made for the welfare of man. Every detail including the reality of the resurrection was made to insure for man the achieving of his ultimate goal — exaltation in the kingdom of his Father. The divine plan and its guiding influence expressed in laws, principles, and organizations have all been for the uplifting and stimulation of man to his greatest potential. Free Agency and Eternal Progress Another of the vital features of the plan of salvation is the promise and possibility of eternal progress. There is no compulsion upon man to comply with the divine will. If LESSON DEPARTMENT man is to progress, he must elect to do it of his own free will and choice. Lucifer's plan of forcing man was rejected because it robbed man of the chance of growth. Through the force that Lucifer wanted to exert, man could not develop in character or in the use of his intelligence. Brigham Young said, "What is the foundation of the rights of man? The Lord Almighty has organized man for the express purpose of becoming an independent being like unto himself, and has given him his individual agency. Man is made in the likeness of his Creator, the great archtype of the human species, who bestowed upon him the principles of eternity, planting immortality within him, and leaving him at liberty to act in the way that seemeth good unto him... To choose or refuse for himself " (Young, Brigham, Millennial Star, July 5, 1855, Vol. 20, page 43). Man's progress is related to his ability to investigate, discover, understand, and elect to follow truth. This implies free agency or freedom of choice. 'Therefore, his decisions determine not only his progress here but the full realization of his exaltation as a child of God. The Father has consistently extended his guidance to: man, reminding man of his heritage and offering the fullness of life with the maximum of joy and _ happiness through obedience to the principles governing life. Man, however, must make the initial effort. He must ask "in faith, nothing wavering" (James 1:6). He must wage a constant battle against darkness (evil) grasping and holding onto truth and light, "Which light proceedeth forth from the presence of 629 including Reno, San Francisco, RedPortland, Seattle, Victoria, B. C. — August 9, September 8, September 22. Woods, Ask about our tour to the (Including Mt. Rushmore) Leaves August 19, 1962 See the Colossal Sculpture carved | from solid granite of the heads of Washington, Jefferson, Theodore Roosevelt. Lincoln and $98.50 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-805] oo - ee God to fill the immensity of space — The light which is in all things, which giveth life to all things, which is the law by which all things are governed, even the power of God J (D&C 88:12-13). Divine law is the law of progression to perfection. It has been available to man from the _ beginning, evidencing the constant concern of the Creator for the success of his creation but leaving the decision as the responsibility of man. When man makes laws on the basis of his own wisdom, they usually deal with the mundane things of life. It is most often to protect himself and his property from injury or loss. Generally, he enacts laws to defend and maintain his ideas, folkways, and/or mores (ways of doing with a moral significance), using 630 NORTHWEST TOUR including Banff, Lake Louise, World's Fair — August 6 EIGHT-DAY WORLD'S FAIR TOUR leaving every month — many dates TWELVE-DAY WORLD'S FAIR TOUR Including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, and Victoria, Canada. Leaving September 21. MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East, P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City 9, Utah e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles _ 0 _ 235 150 to 300 miles.. = 300 to 600 miles ae. TA5 * 600 to 1000 miles. 4 1000 to 1400 miles wocececcececceeeee-e 204 1400 to 1800 miles 16 Over 1800 miles ___ 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—AUGUST 1962 physical punishment to deter the breaking of the law. On the other hand, God's law has been revealed to man as a guide to perfection. God himself is a resurrected, perfected individual, having followed the well-defined law of life that produces such an attainment and he has given man, through revelation, these same well-defined laws to direct him to exaltation. Divine law is very simple and plain "adapted to the capacity of the weak and the weakest of all saints, who are or can be called saints" (D & C 89:3). To illustrate: God has given the laws of health for the development of a healthy body free from pain and disease. He has set up the laws of learning as a discipline for the development of the mind to the perfection of the individual. "It is impossible for a man to be saved in ignorance" (D & C 131:6). He has given to mankind the great law of love which governs human association and produces perfection in personalities, and in all human relations by instilling peace in the hearts of men. All this can be achieved by choice, not by force. If one chooses to disregard the law of God, there is no physical force used directly against him as punishment. But the results of the disobedience on the individual are inevitable. He "has as full a measure of capability to violate the laws of health, the requirements of nature, and the commandments of God in matters both temporal and spiritual, as he has to obey all such; in the one case he brings upon himself the penalties that belong to the broken law, as in the other he inherits the specific blessings and the added freedom | | | LESSON DEPARTMENT that attend a _ law-abiding life. Obedience to law is the habit of the free man; the transgressor fears the law, for he brings upon himself deprivation and restraint, not because of the law, which would have protected him in his freedom, but because of his antagonism to law" —TatmacE, James E., Articles of Faith, pp. 52-53). Divine law is light and truth to mankind. It is the way and the light to continual progress, the fulness of which can be attained only by the expression of the eternal punciple of free agency, which is knowing the truth, the nght, the good, and electing to do it, thus rejecting the evil. — 631 References D & CG, Sections 88, 131 Discourses of Brigham Young, Chapters V, VII, XIX Talmage, James E.: Articles of Faith, Chapter 3. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What was God's purpose in creating the earth? 2. In what way is the "conquering of self' the greatest challenge of the creation? 3. What does "in the image of God" include? 4. How is divine law designed for progress? 5. What is the difference between liberty and license? 6. How is obedience essential to advancement and progress? On Reaching Shadows Mabel Jones Gabbott The boy was small, the sun was bright; His shadow stretched ahead; "When will I grow to reach my shadow?" Wistfully, he said. _ Now often as the sun points up My shadow on the wall, I wonder, "Will I ever grow In mind and heart that tall?" How far the shadow of my dreams Outruns my present gain, How short my steps of my ideal! How much to still attain! Announcements For Your Daughter's Temple Marriage Custom Printed by Handy Mail Order 100 only $7.95 Other Styles 100 for $5.95 Write for FREE brochure and samples or send 25¢ for complete catalog. REXCRAFT Dept. R Rexburg, Idaho Birthday Congratulations One Hundred Three Mrs. Mary ANN Brown CLArK Provo, Utah One Hundred One Mrs. FRANCES Epwarps Salt Lake City, Utah One Hundred Mrs. JosePpHINE Kitstar HARTMAN Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-eight Mrs. CHLOE SPENCER Aurora, Utah Ninety-seven Mrs. IpA May Lowry ALLEN Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-five Mrs. MiLLicent Curtis SMITH Bakersfield, California Mrs. LoursA RAPPLEYE NELSON Ferron, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Harriet BRONSON WOODLAND Ogden, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. EvizABETH Copp ANDERSON Vancouver, B. C., Canada Page 632 Ninety-two Mrs. Frances Corsy Myers Richfield, Utah Mrs. ANNA LIEBSCHER MurELLER Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. MAGDALENA WuTHRICH IIIRSCHI Idaho Falls, Idaho Ninety-one Mrs. ELIZABETH CARPENTER ANDERSON MAaxweELL Glendale, Utah Ninety Mrs. Mary FrancES Houcu RoBEsON Farmington, New Mexico Mrs. Martua STHAR Bonto New Castle, Colorado Mrs. RespeccaA ANGELINA O'BRIEN NALDER Raymond, Alberta, Canada Mrs. Emma Jacoss WILLIAMS Cardston, Canada Mrs. Hanna Victoria BONE STEWART Lehi, Utah Mrs. Marte E.. Beck Ovid, Idaho Mrs. MarrHa ANGELINE KELLY Harris Monte Vista, Colorado Mrs. Hannau Vicrorta BonE STEWART Lehi, Utah Mrs. RosaANNAH CANNON IRVINE Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Matira SPENCER JOLLEY Lovell, Wyoming Mrs. MacpaLena Boss SCHOENFELD Salt Lake City, Utah Latest book by President Hugh B. Brown CONTINUING THE QUEST This bounteous treasury of sixty-eight selections contains all the ability, energy, and_ spiritual powers of President Brown. In the collection are general conference addresses, radio talks, articles, writings, '"musings'' and ''browsings'' — each one touching intimately and unforgettably the hearts of those who read them. 534 pages. $3.95 sO YOU WANT TO RAISE A BOY? W. CLEON SKOUSEN = TT BPSiv2 at AME LIDQA Qe << A This readable, common-sense account spans ''boyhood" from birth to age twenty-one. It portrays physical and emotional development year by year, outlines behavior patterns and problems and recommends how parents should react to them. The boy's relationship to the family, his adjustment to school, and such problems as '"'telling tales'' and "taking a bath'' are considered. Illustrated. $4.50 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) | have an account. Please charge. Amount enclosed $ eee VOL (encircled) numbered books: ] 2 lS (SS Address oooo. Oiiccccececece eve cccceeescceeeetnnecetereecccceeseuceeeeneeeeeeeee: City Zone.. State Residents of Utah include 3% sales tax. — ee me ee oe ee we Se Is your life insurance Beneficial? Many teachers — and family heads in other businesses, professions and trades — have discovered in Beneficial's Family Benefactor Plan a program exactly suited to their needs. This one plan covers not only the father, but mother Second Class Postage Paid | at Salt Lake City, Utah and children as well — including any future additions to the family. The cost is low and the benefits great. Your Beneficial Life agent will be happy to explain this plan — and other flexible modern insurance programs that can be tailored to your needs, family size and income. Call on him soon. Over a half billion dollars of life insurance in force. BENEFICIAL LIFE Insurance on Company Bi Virgil H. Smith, Pres. Salt Lake City, Utah 
