Savior Margery S. Stewart So should I, Lord, Have hung upon that cross Which I had fashioned, year on unthinking year, And felt the nails' torment, The bitter burn of thirst And life's slow falling loss. Save that upon a day thou Didst quietly take my place, And died, thorned there, between the thieves, While angels wept And earth in darkness mourned The winnowed stillness of thy holy face. And on what desolate crosses Men have died Rejecting thee, thine offer and thy love. For who is there to listen In that dark Or be in a lighted instant at his side? For if the thief could know He steals to build the beam On which he will be nailed by and by, How fiercely he would strive To find thee past the dark deceptive dream. The cross, compassionate Lord, was never thine But composite of all crosses, such as mine. The Cover: Springtime Garden Color Transparency by H. Armstrong Roberts Frontispiece: Lilies of Easter Photograph by Josef Muench Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From Near and Far Three years ago we moved from Utah to the Northwest. Of course we were lonely and homesick. My dear parents Mr. And Mrs. Neal J. Hillyard sent us gift subscriptions to The Relief Society Magazine and the other Church publications, and they have proved to be very valuable in that they have kept us from straying into the wrong paths. 'The lessons in knowledge of truth and faith in each issue have given us and our home life more harmony and have kept us in touch with those we hold dear. My appreciation and thanks go to Sister Cannon for her lessons on manners and_ attitudes. They are most enjoyable and highly worthwhile to everyone. 'These lessons have been important and useful in our home. The Magazine brings the light of the gospel for us all to see and use. —Mtrs. Evelyn H. Johnson Raymond, Washington I am always interested in the covers of our excellent Magazine. 'These covers give people living so far away a little more insight into the wonderful country that is Zion. I have been a member of the Church for nearly three years, and have been receiving The Relief Society Magazine since shortly after becoming a member. It is my wish that the Magazine will continue to bring happiness to all the homes that it enters. —Yvonne Harbeck Moonah, Australia I wish to thank you for such a lovely, inspirational Magazine. I am a young mother, with three children, and I always get so much to boost my spirits from Relief Society and the Magazine. Sometimes we mothers tend to become spiritually and intellectually dulled from the humdrum routine of household problems, and I am thankful for the Relief Society's choice of lesson materials to help pull us out of our so-called "'ruts'"' that we tend to slip into. —Jacqueline Overson Mesa, Arizona Page 234 I love the Magazine, with its wonderful lessons — especially the Visiting Teacher Messages. They seem to be just what is needed at this time. So many sisters tell us, as we do our teaching, "How do the women who plan these lessons know just what we need each month?" I love the counsel and advice given by our General Authorities, and the stories are very interesting to me. —Mrs. M. P. McOmber Hamilton, Montana I was surprised and pleased in reading the "Sixty Years Ago'' page for August 1961 to see the note about the organization of the Relief Society in Kansas City, Missouri, in August 1901, as it was 1903 when my grandmother, Mrs. Malvina T. Chrisp, joined the Church, and I know it wasn't long until she joined our wonderful Relief Society organization. I enjoy the Magazine, and was particularly impressed with the serial "Because of the Word" (concluded in January 1962), by Hazel M. Thomson. I would like to commend the authors, also, of these outstanding stories: ''Aunt Mattie's Retirement List'' (October 1961), by Klea Evans Worsley; "A Feather in Her Hat," (June 1961), by Sylvia Probst Young; and "A Parable for Polly" (September 1961), by Maude Proctor. —Mrs. Mary Taylor Versailles, Missouri I was impressed with the beauty of the November Relief Society Magazine cover, showing a painting of Nauvoo, Illinois. Thank you for printing this and also the beautiful Madonnas featured on the December covers. Each month I am amazed at the beauty and quality maintained throughout the Magazine. 'The literature course has been a great joy to me, especially the opportunity to study America's literature. I am grateful to Elder Jacobs for the wonderful way in which he prepares these lessons. —Joann R. Hoover Junction City, Kansas 7 

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker. - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Elizabeth B. Winters Edith S. Elliott Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron LaRue H. Rosell Florence J. Madsen Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt Jennie R. Scott Leone G. Layton Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Alice L. Wilkinson Blanche B. Stoddard Winniefred S. Pearle M. Olsen LaPriel S. Bunker Evon W. Peterson Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Irene W. Buehner Aleine M. Young Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford Irene C. Lloyd Josie B. Bay Annie M. Ellsworth Fanny S. Kienitz Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor = C c = - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford Genera! Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford 

VOL. 49 APRIL 1962 NO. 4 
Contents 
SPECIAL FEATURES Welfare and the Relief Society ieee eeceecescccecceeeescsseceeteceenenesacnsnensentensccnseneeeseeeesHoward W. Hunter 236 She Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith — Part I — Emmeline B. Wells Preston Nibley 240 Thanks for the Magazime 22.002 ceececcccoccncceccencesceeeeeececeecesesetensseeeeneveseeueceueeseeeessecoecesLinnie F. Robinson 253 Cancer Education, Research, and Service ooeeeec. EceeecceeccecccececececesececeeeesnesecesseeeecesRutherford L. Ellis 259 POTIOIS OT) Cl MISSION - ---canene-------------enncee--nceeea---c-enaceanneconeonreerercoreuceraverecaceessecceseutAgnes K. Morgan 265 A Latter-day Saint Schoolteacher in Beave:, Alaska 2.0 ccetecccceeeeceeeeeeee-e-Elizabeth P. Zabriskie 267 FICTION—SPECIAL APRIL SHORT STORIES The Mischief Makers o.. Ccc.-cesccecccecccesceccccececceeceseecensececceceececcececeenseceneassnceseeceneceseesDorothy Clapp Robinson 243 ST none ceceene en cneveencenceoneecencenoececeeeseceacuccuceecececeeeeees. 2. IeeeIlene H. Kingsbury 248 A Name Before the Lord once cnc ceccnee eee encececnecceceeeccececneeece rene ceeteceuersccesssesescacsaseeseaeEllen Taylor Hazard 260 DMO VING FOCES in. Nccenncencecnneneeneoo-cassecrne--cenvare+soccecccveneer--coceseceacrenecaecoccecesecrencenseatenceBetty Lou Martin 291 Sow the Field With Roses — Chapter 4 oo eceeccecccececeeeeeeeee eee niggas ncaaMargery S. Stewart 296 GENERAL FEATURES ctr CTI Far Onn. Nnn anne nena ne cere eeenee ences neve ren nmenenaccerescensccnuibiinsecccncnnnecemanseneasunnceeuseesseness 234 IY, YECTS ACO __ ccccccs--scccecsccoceeesscecerssecesecscucesscsesesoeuessnecessssenscesees a 254 MTT SOMO NS occa no ecco ennn en nnneec terrane nee nee ceerene eee ee ee nneeetvnse ecnennee sevencaeeRamona W. Cannon 255 Editorial: ''! Will Pour Out My Spirit' 22 cece cc ecee ccc eee cece eectsMarianne C. Sharp 256 Notes to the Field: Lesson Previews to Appear in the June Iscus -' The Relief Society Margarzime 22 ee een nn ene nen cee seteeeneeccetenee 298 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities. 220.20 occlelc cece cece eect eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeHulda Parker 303 lenelery Congratulations 2 ge ence ene cece nent ee ee ee. SZ FEATURES FOR THE HOME 2) Dee MST 5 9 00 0) 5 | a Caroline Eyring Miner 266 A Compliment Cast on the Waters 22 2ccceccccccccccecceceeeeeeececceeceeeeeeeeeeserveeenseceeessssteceeseeuesesEvelyn Dorio 271 From My Window I Watch ooucoce cece eccceeecccnccececeecneceeeeeneeeeeeeeeecceeeesscececensesesenseeeereeseesCleo Jones Johnson 272 Gonay tor Your Easter Basket ooo eee cece cecccceececeececeeccercecsececeeeeccneeseneeneesCaroline L. Naylor 274 Two Recipes for a Luncheon 2000 iioeeecccceccececccneccceenecacececsececececeeccceeccenccunceuccceneceececenneecsseceucessRuth L. Jones 275 Recipes From a Pioneer Kitchen 2o 000.0.002oocceccceceeccccsececceseeeesececeeseeeecessenseeeneaescsesceeeececeseeeesAnne McCall 276 The Little Silver Thimble 0 oe ee cceeccccceccceceeececersenenecosensecenscenreccueneeeneccessSherry Crookston 277 Housekeeper in a Hurry 2000000 A AEE ESJanet W. Breeze 278 Anna Eckloff Makes Her Life Happy With Hobbies ooo. Eeeceeeccccscesccceceeecceecceccccecvecceececesecesseesecssesencceeeeee 280 Keep Your End of the Handle Up oooccecccccccccicecee ccc cetcesceceeccceesesnecceceecccenneecceseneececeececneeeneeeeesOlive Sharp 281 What Did You aac cc ccccncccccnerenmeenncerecoseeconceneeeneeeMaude Proctor 282 Te ea > No wven voreosneavenee~ lllMary C. Martineau 286 Potted Plants Complete a Picture oie eieecececcecccccececcccoseeccecencsessecececsencensecsenseEva Willes Wangsgaard 288 eh ohne te i: |: (ci i eaeMelba Larson 295; POETRY eS Shoe 9) 0) (- 1:1 i i neMargery S. Stewart 233 Music, by Padda M. Speller, 257; Starless Interlude, by Annie Atkin Tanner, 258; Doing Good, by Catherine B. Bowles, 259; Point of View, by Gladys Hesser Burnhan, 264; I Would Follow Thee, by Mildred Wentworth, 265; Fame's Prayer, by Leora Larsen, 270; Enough, by Hazel Loomis, 273; No Half Loaf This, by Virginia Newman, 275: Note to Carvel, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 277; From My Window, by Evalyn Sandberg, 289: The Blossoming, by Dorothy J. Roberts, 284; Return, by Henrietta B. McNeely, 287: Prelude to Easter, by Linda Clarke, 290; My Legacy, by Maude Rubin, 302; Grandmothers Know, by Christie Lund Coles, 311; Beauty, by Ida Isaacson, 312. 

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Copyright 1962 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20e a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. Page 235 

Elder Howard W. Hunter Of the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 28, 1961] ' C | HE Church Welfare Plan in _ its present form and organization came about twentysix years ago. This was a renewed emphasis of a phase of the gospel which has always existed. Since the beginning of time men have been commanded to be their brother's keeper, and God's children have always been expected to help one another. 'This thread has been woven through the loom of the Old Testament, the teachings of the Master during his personal ministry, through the writings of the New Testament, and throughout the history of The Book of Mormon. The revelations of these latter days are replete with these admonitions. Since the organization of the Church in 1830, the history of the Latter-day Saints has been influenced by the principles which have now been codified into the Welfare Plan. Not long ago I was reading the words of Brigham Young spoken from the pulpit in the old Tabernacle here in Salt Lake City nearly one hundred years ago. 'This is what he said: I am now going to preach you a short sermon concerning our temporal duties. My sermon is to the poor, and to those who are not poor. As a people, we are not poor; and we wish to say to the Bishops, not only in this city, but through the country, "Bishops, take care of your poor.". We have among us some Page 236 brethren and sisters who are not strong, nor healthy, and they must be supported. We wish to adopt the most economical plan of taking care of them.... In the spring have these brethren sow some broom-corn, — they will enjoy working a little out of doors in the nice spring weather, — and then in fall they can make brooms with the corn. By pursuing this course a Bishop will soon be able to say, "IT have accomplished a good work; the brethren and sisters whom I had to help are now in a condition to help themselves." In a short time, if their labor and time are wisely employed, you can build for them the finest house in the ward. Now, Bishops, you have smart women for wives, many of you; let them organize Female Relief Societies in various wards. We have many talented women among us, and we wish their help in this matter. Some may think this is a_ trifling thing, but it is not; and you will find that the sisters will be the mainspring of the movement (Journal of Discourses, Vol. 12, pp. 114-115). There is nothing old or old-fashioned about the Welfare Program The principles are old, but the challenges are new. These words of Brigham Young are as up-to-date as if spoken today in this Tabernacle. There was an echo from these words of Brigham Young when President Heber J. Grant announced to the Church in the October Conference in 1936, the establishment of what we now refer to as the Welfare Program. He stated that the "primary purpose was to set up, in so far as it might be possible, a system under WELFARE AND THE RELIEF SOCIETY which the curse of idleness would be done away with, the evils of a dole abolished, and independence, industry, thrift and self-respect be once more established amongst our people" (Priesthood and Church Welfare, page 19). At the following conference, President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., spoke on this subject saying: First, and above and beyond everything else, let us live righteously, fearing God and keeping his commandments, that we may in part claim his blessings as of right, and not as of mercy only. Along this way only lies happiness and salvation. Let us avoid debt as we would avoid a plague; where we are now in debt let us get out of debt; if not today, then tomorrow. Let us straitly and strictly live within our incomes, and save a little. Let every head of every household see to it that he has on hand enough food and clothing, and where possible, fuel also, for at least a year ahead. You of small means put your money in foodstuffs and wearing apparel, not in stocks and bonds; you of large means will think you know how to care for yourselves, but I may venture to suggest that you do not speculate. Let every head of every household aim to own his own home, free from mortgage. Let every man who has a garden spot, garden it; every man who owns a farm, farm it. We must purge our hearts of the love of ease; we must put out from our lives the curse of idleness... (Conference Reports, April 1937, page 26). We often refer to the Welfare work of the Church. The word work creeps in with the word Welfare, and the two seem to be associated together. We know we must work for the things that are worthwhile in life, and if the Welfare Program is to be worthwhile and succeed, we must couple work with high ideals. Faith without works is dead. In the same sense, our sucye | cess in our Welfare endeavors can only be accomplished by work. You who are in leadership in the great Relief Society organization, and who give leadership to the great Welfare Program, know the power there is in banding together for the noble purpose of helping those in need. I talked to a man not long ago who works in a machine shop fabricating a little electronic element which is about the size of a dime. He told me that these were used in nearly all of the missiles and rockets which are shot into space. I asked him how this little part was used in the operation of the rocket. He said: "I haven't the least idea. All I know is that it goes inside of the rocket." I am inclined to think that some of us are this way in the Welfare Program. We accept an assignment to pull weeds, peel fruit, clean fish, harvest crops, or some other task, but we do not see the end results of our labor as it fits into the great whole and becomes a component part of the finished product. Most of you sisters have been in the bishop's storehouse and have seen the foods and commodities as they are collected from all parts of the Church where they have been produced. You have seen shelf after shelf of items produced by our people, which look as lovely and inviting as the products on the shelves of the big supermarkets. As we look at this great assortment of finished items, we see more than cans and boxes and packages. We see the labor of hundreds of people who have worked together for a common purpose. When we realize that the little can we so lovingly packed with fruit 238 or vegetables went on to take its place with nearly two and a half million other cans produced in the Program last year, we catch the vision of the vastness of our efforts. Relief Society presidents last year signed orders on the storehouse of the bishops for a million quarts of milk, a million pounds of flour, a million and a half pounds of potatoes, a million pounds of dressed meat, and large quantities of all kinds of food, clothing, and commodities produced by our own hands. Last year we helped in some way about one hundred thousand persons. 'This is big business when we combine all of our smaller groups into the one great effort. Is it really work? I know it has taken hours and hours of thought, preparation, leadership, and encouragement, in addition to the time spent in producing the product. But there is the other side of the ledger — people working together in the vineyard of the Lord. I know you have come home tired and weary from the cannery or the sewing room, but as we look back, haven't some of our happiest days been those where we have worked together to be of service to someone else? Haven't we all been blessed by our willingness to work that others might receive? This is the spirit of the great Welfare Program. Those of you who are Relief Society presidents have had the opportunity of working with the bishops and of going into the homes where there has been need and making the determination as how best to help those who are less fortunate. I know it has been time consuming, taking you away from your own homes and taking you away from your pleasures RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 in life, yet a great blessing has come to you by administering to their needs. I served as a bishop for more than six years, as a stake president for ten years, and eight years as a chairman of a welfare region. With the many Relief Society presidents and counselors I worked with during those years, I have never heard one of them complain or say she was not happy in the work which had been assigned to her. I am grateful to our sisters for their support of the Priesthood. Is there greater pleasure and joy in the Welfare Program than there is work? It is true our work benefits others, and the Lord has said: "It is more blessed to give than to receive." 'The great joys in life come from giving, and the greatest gift is the giving of ourselves, our time and energy and efforts. Isn't it a good feeling to know that our efforts have resulted in doing good for someone else? When we go to sacrament meeting and realize there are people seated with us in the chapel who are being helped and blessed by reason of the fact that we are willing to give, doesn't it all seem worthwhile? I have never been on a gloomy welfare project. I have climbed trees and picked lemons, peeled fruit, tended boiler, carried boxes, unloaded trucks, cleaned the cannery, and a thousand and one other things, but the things I remember most are the laughing and the singing and the good fellowship of people engaged in the service of the Lord. It is like the little boy who was carrying another little boy on his back. "Isn't he heavy?" someone asked. The little fellow answered, "No, he's my brother." WELFARE AND THE RELIEF SOCIETY As a woman, a wife, and a mother, and the keeper of the home, there are so many things that you can do to keep in tune with the spirit of this great program, and as officers in the Relief Society, it becomes your privilege to teach these principles to your sisters. Some of the most important ones might be summarized as follows: 1. Righteous living. If we keep the commandments of God, he will bless us with spiritual prosperity. 2. Every person self-sustaining. Church members should sustain themselves to the extent of their ability by their own labors. The Lord has said we shall not be idle. 3. Avoid public relief. We subscribe to the principle that we are our brother's keeper. We should be self-sustaining if possible. Children should be taught their responsibility, where parents are unable to provide for themselves. 4. Avoid debt. President Clark has said: "Let us avoid debt as we would avoid a plague. Where we are now in debt let us get out of debt." 5: Have enough food, clothing, and necessities on hand to take care of any emergency. We should be able to sustain ourselves for at least one year. 6. Live within our income. Families should budget their income so that desires are kept within the ability to pay. 7. Help provide employment where necessary. The Church has always counseled and recommended that mothers be in their home with their children and not seek employment outside of the home. Women should not be unnecessarily employed. 8. Save. Regardless of the size of our income, we should budget our affairs that 239 we might set aside some portion. This becomes our security and independence. G. Strive to own our own home. Stability comes to the family which owns its own home. We should strive to free our home from mortgage and debt. 10. Gladly accept welfare assignments. Working together in the program brings the strength we need to produce for those who may be less fortunate. 11. Keep the law of the fast. We will be benefited spiritually, and sufficient means will be in the hands of the bishops to take care of all the poor. 12. Be a living testimony. We should so live the principles of the Welfare Program that our example will inspire others. I am grateful for the inspired leadership which has formulated the course of action that teaches us to help those among us who need assistance. 'This is religion in action. This is the course ordained of God from the very beginning. I am grateful for the devoted sisters who stand with the Priesthood, and in their compassionate services and _assistance, strengthen the great cause in lifting our brothers and sisters by temporal means to spiritual heights. May we have the vision to clearly see the road ahead. God lives and this is his work. I bear witness that the Welfare Program comes to us by inspiration and revelation. It is part of living the gospel. I pray the Lord's blessings upon us as we continue to serve him and keep his commandments, in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. She Knew the Prophet Joseph Smith Preston Nibley Assistant Church Historian Part I — Emmeline B. Wells THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH From a painting by Lewis Ramsey might have been seen an elderly little lady, entering or leaving the Hotel Utah, in Salt Lake City, where she made her home. She walked quietly and slowly, and usually, in summer, wore a Paisley Shawl over her shoulders. She was Mrs. Emmeline B. Wells, General President of the Relief Societies of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In her day she had been a brilliant and capable woman. Now she was well past her eightieth year, but she kept steadily and faithfully at her tasks until her Page 240 A BOUT fifty years ago, there strength was exhausted. I think "Aunt Em," as she was familiarly known to her friends, was just past her ninety-third birthday when she died in April 1921. I was always interested in our Church history, and on two or three occasions, when I saw "Aunt Em" sitting alone in the lobby of the Hotel Utah, I went and sat down beside her and asked her a few questions. I remember that she told me that she had left her home in Massachusetts as a young convert to Mormonism, when she was fifteen years of age, and with her mother had moved to Nauvoo, Illinois. Then I asked her, "Did you ever meet the Prophet Joseph Smith?" She replied, "Oh, yes, I knew him quite well, and on several occasions I sang and recited for him." Then she told me about the Prophet, his marvelous personality, his friendliness, kindness, and _ his great ability. Finally she remarked, "In all my experience I have never met another man like him." Recently in going through the volume of The Young Woman's Journal for December 1905, I discovered on pages 554-550, the following interesting article, "Aunt Em" had written and published, at that time, as a tribute to the great Prophet of the nineteenth century. Part of the article is reproduced here. Which | SHE KNEW THE PROPHET JOSEPH SMITH "Journeying from my home in Massachusetts to Nauvoo, Illinois, with a company of Latter-day Saints, we were joined in Albany by some Flders returning from missions in the Eastern states. Among them was the late Jacob Gates, who was accompanied by his wife with whom I became well acquainted enroute. Sister Gates talked a great deal about the Prophet Joseph, whom she knew intimately, and when she saw that I was specially interested in him, promised me that she would introduce me to him on our arrival in Nauvoo. She also told me many things concerning his life and mission that I had not known before; and I listened carefully to all the Elders' conversation for they were full of zeal and the spirit of the Latter-day work; and of love for the Prophet Joseph. To me it was a continuous revelation; although Sister Gates seemed to think it impossible for one so young and inexperienced to realize the greatness and wonderful power of the Prophet Joseph Smith; in time I came to understand the feeling when I tried to explain to others the power he possessed that impressed the people with whom he came in contact. As we neared our destination in sailing up the Mississippi, the elders were full of enthusiasm at the thought of seeing the Prophet again.. At last the boat reached the upper landing, and a crowd of people were coming toward the bank of the river. As we stepped ashore the crowd advanced, and I could see one person who towered away and above all the others around him; in fact I did not see distinctly any others. His majestic bearing, so entirely different 241 from any one I had ever seen (and I had seen many superior men) was more than a surprise. It was as if I beheld a vision; I seemed to be lifted off my feet, to be as it were walking in the air, and paying no heed whatever to those around me, I made my way through the crowd, then I saw this man whom I had noticed, because of his lofty appearance, shaking hands with all the people, men, women and children. Before I was aware of it he came to me, and when he took my hand, I was simply electrified, — thnilled through and through to the tips of my fingers, and every part of my body, as if some magic elixir had given me new life and vitality. I am sure that for a few minutes I was not conscious of motion. I think I stood still, I did not want to speak, or be spoken to. I was overwhelmed with indefinable emotion. Sister Gates came to me and said, EMMELINE B. WELLS 242 "Tl introduce you to the Prophet Joseph now, he is here." I replied, "IT don't want to be introduced to him." She was astonished, and said curtlv, ' "Why vou told me how desirous you were of meeting him." I answered, "Yes, but I've seen him and he spoke to me." "But he didn't know who you were!" I replied, "IT know that but it doesn't matter." I was in reality too full for utterance. 'The one thought that filled my soul was, I have seen the Prophet of God, he has taken me by the hand, and this testimony has never left me in all the "perils by the way." It is as vivid today as ever it was. For many years, I felt it too sacred an experience even to mention. It was my good fortune to go lmmediately on my arrivel to a home where the Prophet Joseph was almost idolized, and I heard of the wonderful power he possessed, and everything concerning him it was possible to learn. I heard him preach all his last sermons, and frequently met him and shook hands with him, and always felt in my inmost soul, he is indeed a man unlike all others. In the Prophet Joseph Smith, I RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 believed I recognized the great spiritual power that brought joy and comfort to the Saints; and withal he had that strong comradeship that made such a bond of brotherliness with those who were his companions in civil and military life, and in which he reached men's souls, and appealed most forcibly to their friendship and loyalty. He possessed too the innate refinement that one finds in the born poet, or in the most highly cultivated intellectual and poetical nature; this extraordinary temperament and force combined is something of a miracle and can scarcely be accounted for except as a "heavenly mystery" of the "higher sort."... He was beyond my comprehension. 'The power of God rested upon him to such a degree that on many occasions he seemed transfigured. His expression was mild and almost childlike in _repose; and when addressing the people who loved him it seemed to adoration, the glory of his countenance was beyond description. At other times the great power of his manner, more than of his voice (which was sublimely eloquent to me) seemed to shake the place on which we stood and penetrate the inmost soul of his hearers, and I am sure that then they would have laid down their lives to defend him. I always listened spell-bound to his every utterance — the chosen of God in this last dispensation." The Mischief Makers Dorothy Clapp Robinson ETITIA Haworth, called Tish |, by her friends, dropped to her bed and tried to find a comfortable position. "IT need a new bed." She spoke aloud, a habit she had acquired since being alone. "But then I shouldn't be napping. I should finish trimming the lawn." She sat up and pounded her pillow. "There is no point in my being so tired. I have been doing these things the last thirty years, and I love doing them." First, there had been a picnic in her back yard yesterday. Children were certainly more careless than they used to be. 'True, the chaperon had stayed to finish the cleaning the children had started, but Tish had waved her aside with: "You run along, dearie. I love doing this." And she did like doing it. And last evening Irene, Tish's daughter, had a meeting with her Cub Scouts in the basement. The boys spilled punch on the floor. It was a couldn't-be-helped accident, and the boys had mopped furiously if not too effectively — bless their hearts. Irene, knowing her mother, said, "Don't you touch this. I will be over in the morning." "In the morning" in Tish's language did not mean the middle of the afternoon. When Irene called to excuse her delay, Tish said, "I have it all done so don't worry." And not to leave any doubt that this was her day, the boy who took care of her lawn called early. He wanted to go on a hike and would not be back before day after tomorrow. Would she mind if he did it then? "You run along," she answered, "T'll love doing it this time." She had forgotten how enormous the lawn was, even when using a power mower. When they had built facing the street, Hugh, her husband, had said, "We'll put all this back space into lawn. It will be a wonderful playground for our children." It had been, and still was. The trees they had planted had grown to give shade, and the swings were still intact, antl used not only by their children's children, but by all the children from miles around, it seemed. Most of them could use a lesson on property nghts. Kemembering, Tish sighed. No one disciplined children any more. Mr. Brown, a real estate dealer and a friend of Hugh's, said one day, "You are virtually running a public playground. Sell this back lot to me. He had repeated his offer many times, but 'Tish would as soon think of selling her home. The pillow at last gave a modicum of comfort, and several times Tish thought she was going to nap, but back would come her problems. "Get rid of this big place," her children were constantly advising her. Fiddlesticks. She had been taking care of this place ever since it had been built, and she would never Page 243 244 entirely lose Hugh as long as she had it. Every foot of lawn, every room, every nail and beam, and every inch of paint spoke of him. All the gladness and the sadness of her life were part of this place. Someone in the yard next door kept hammering. When she could stand it no longer, Tish rose and went to the window. It was Bob Jennings and Mr. Brown. 'They were putting a sign on the lawn. 'Tish knew immediately it was a "For Sale" sign. OW could Bob do such a thing so soon! Only last month his mother had passed away. She had lived in that little house for at least twenty-five years, and now, Bob was trying to sell her place. It seemed nothing counted these days but dolJars. Tish thought of returning to the bed, but her conscience prodded her. All that clipping yet to be done. 'I should go help Bob." She stopped short. An idea had popped into her mind. Perfect. It would solve all her problems. She knew every inch of the little house. 'Times without numbers she had sat with Mrs. Jennings, helped her clean, or taken her guests into her own guest room. Then a really big idea hit her. Irene and Jim needed a larger house for their growing family. They had been dickering for one in a new housing project called Hill Village. Her plan would save them that expense. They could have this house, with its wonderful yard and all she would ask was that they buy Mrs. Jennings' house for her. 'That way Tish would really not be losing her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 home. Her piano could stay right where it was. The guest room would be there when one of her frequent guests came. "Tl wrap up the deal right now." Her tiredness had turned to enthusiasm. She went to the telephone and dialed Bob's home. "Just a moment," his wife said, "I think he is driving into the yard.... Just a moment." "Why, Mrs. Haworth. Id love you to have mother's place," Bob said when Tish ran out of breath. "Tl write the heirs today. I should have releases by, say Monday or Tuesday at the latest." "Tl do it. YU do it." Tish hummed happily as she started her car. She was especially happy that she had thought of it herself. Usually, she followed pretty much what the family dictated. As she neared Irene's home, she saw a company car at the curb and Irene and Jim were standing beside it, their heads bent over some papers. Hardly waiting for her car to stop, Tish was out and hobbling toward them. Her right ankle wasn't acting so well today. "Guess what," she cried, and without waiting for their response, she plunged into the happy news. "I have this house problem solved for all of us. I don't know why I hadn't thought of it before." "We were just discussing.... Irene stopped and looked at her mother. "What do you mean?" "Well, Bob has put his mother's place up for sale. I called him." "? JTM and Irene exchanged a quick look. Jim folded the papers and put them in his pocket. In words tumbling over each THE MISCHIEF MAKERS other, Tish outlined her entire plan. They would have no big payment to make, no interest to pay. All they would have to do was buy the little house for her and they could have her big place. "T wouldn't mind giving up my home," she said, slowing down for breath, "I can still enjoy it and look at what you will save." "That is very unselfish of you, Mother," Irene answered, "but it would be unfair to you, and to the rest of the family." "Tt sure would," Jim added, "your place has four times the value of that small place. And there would be a lot of problems involved. Besides, > We WETe.... "Why should there be any problems? And Irene can live in her own home. She has always loved it. Haven't you?" "Of course, Mother, but I am not sure it would work out. And you would not be satisfied if you gave up the house." "Why shouldn't I...?" "We'll think about it," Jim interrupted. "We do appreciate your offer, and we will think about it." "What is there to think about?" "There are a number of angles, and we would not want to rush into a deal of this kind. We'll call you." Tish wasn't afraid of what their thinking would result in, but she was a little annoyed. The advantages were all theirs. They wouldn't find an opportunity like that every day. HEN ten o'clock came the next morning, Tish called Irene. "We haven't quite decided." 245 Irene sounded a little annoyed, 'Tish thought. The reason they were hesitating, of course, was their desire not to be selfish, and as Irene had said, there was the family, but that could be handled. A little later, a friend, Phyllis Herbert, called and asked Tish if she would ride to Dry Creek with her. They had a mutual friend who had fallen and broken her hip and would be glad to see them. Tish hesitated. It would be a pleasant drive, and she had to wait until evening for Jim's decision, but he might accidently call earlier. "Don't you trust my driving?" Phyllis asked. "Tt isn't that. Call from Jim. Portant." "For pity sake. They live only four blocks from you, and if it is that important we can drive by there." "TIL go," Tish decided suddenly. If she were out of town, Jim would know she was not trying to pressure him. "What are you so excited about?" Phyllis asked, when they were on their way. "I'm moving." Happy to have a listener Tish poured out her story. Phyllis showed a disappointing lack of enthusiasm. "Don't you think it is a wonderful plan?" "Yes, if Jim and Irene like it. I heard they had bought in Hill Village." "But this is much better for them, and I shan't have the work of keeping up the house and yard." "Would you mind my honest opinion?" I am expecting a It is very im- 246 "Certainly not." "Here goes then. Not your problem. But not the house." "Why — why, for pity sake, what is it then?" "That you will have to figure out for yourself, but, remember, you can't have your cake and eat it, too." The house is The yard, yes, ISH had scarcely settled herself after her return when Jim and Irene appeared. "You have decided to take it?" Tish cried. "Well, we can't very well refuse," Jim answered, "but there will be some remodeling necessary, and since we are lucky enough to get it at your price, we feel we can afford some changes." He had a little hammer and a tape measure and went about tapping walls and measuring. Tish looked from his departing back to Irene. "What in the world are you planning?" "Well, Mother, you didn't think we would want it just as it is, did you? Weare trying to decide what remodeling has to be done and what it would cost. I will have this partition taken out." Irene indicated the wall between the living room and what had been Hugh's study. Tish sat speechless. Presently Irene came back from inspecting the bedroom. "We'll make a family room out of that spare bedroom, and have it open onto a patio — we can easily build one there." She stopped and looked at the wall above the mantel. "I saw a painting that will fit chat space exactly. Maybe I can talk the family into giving it to me for a Christmas present. And I have some carpet in mind that will RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 harmonize with the color of the painting. Then I will have those bookshelves taken out." "Irene, have you gone mad? Those shelves were built in there, one on each side of the fireplace, to extend the mantel. The mantel alone isn't large enough for our Christmas scene, the manger and all the little people...." "And the piano will go here." Irene ignored the native's scene and pointed to a wall against which there was a large davenport. "But the piano has always been where it is now. Why move it?" "That is your piano, I mean mine." HAT night Tish woke with a moan. She had seen her beloved home being torn down, first a door, then a window, then a beam. Her cabinet of figurines, collected from all over the world, was thrown from the empty doorway. Then she noticed Hugh, standing to one side watching, and every discarded board deepened the distress in his eyes. Then the house, Hugh, debris, and all began receding — further, further. She ran and ran, but could not catch up. Fully awake now, she looked about. Yes, this was her home. That had been but a haunting dream. She was in her own home and nothing had been touched. Slipping on a robe, she went into the living room and sat in the big chair Hugh had always used. She couldn't think. "They have no intention of using my home," she whispered, and the whisper was loud in the empty room. "They are even going to use the money I am saving them to tear my THE MISCHIEF MAKERS home to pieces. Never. If it is torn apart, it will be after I am dead and gone." But what could she do? She could not go on as she was. Without turning on lights, she rose and went from one window to another. At the window over the kitchen sink she lingered. The window was wide, and she could see all the back lawn and the garage. She loved this window — but where could she find an answer? HYLLIS had said something — what was it? Oh, yes, she had said the house was not her problem, but of course, it was. What else could it be? What else could it be? She repeated the sentence word by word. She asked herself questions: Why were there so many picnics in that yard and why had she had to clean up after them? Why should she cut and trim her lawn when she paid someone else to do it? Why did Irene bring her Cub Scouts here where they could spill punch? She brings them because in the beginning I insisted on it. It seemed a shame not to be using that lovely basement, and and I wanted to be in on things. Why did I mop the floor? For the same reason that I always say, "You run along,' or "I'd love doing it this time." For the first time in days a chuckle parted her lips. She wanted to be in on things. She loved being with people, and she had been doing these chores for thirty or more years. H'm, h'm — there was her answer. 247 Because she had was no proof she could continue. She knew, now what Phyllis meant. Forget those two sentences, those mischief makers, and she could manage the house for a number of years. It was as simple as that. She would sell the back lot, right up to the garage. She could cut other corners, but she would keep her home. With sudden decision, she went to the telephone. What if it was three A. M.? They might as well know right now that they were not using her money to remodel her home. The reason she had wanted them to have it was so she could enjoy it with them — intact. Eventually, Irene came on the line. When she heard her mother's voice, sleep left her. "Mother, what is it? Are you sick?" "Nothing is wrong. I just want you to know I am not selling my home, to you or to anyone." "You — you are not selling? You really mean that?" "T certainly do. Neither you nor anyone else is going to tear it to pieces as long as I am alive." There was silence at the other end so long Tish grew apprehensive. "You I didn't hurt your feelings, did I? Are you terribly disappointed?" Tish could have sworn she heard a giggle. "No. No, Mother, I was just telling Jim. It is just that well, I mean well, we didn't expect your call before morning." "Now that," Tish told the dead telephone, "sounded mighty queer." ° K Timber As Related by Ilene H. Kingsbury HEN I was just out of my teens I went to Pine Valley Mountain, in the Southern Utah country, to cook for the lumber hands. I lived in a tent and arose at four each morning to cook the usual potatoes, eggs, pork, and sometimes pie, for the hearty breakfast. This is a land of giant pines. Some of them were hauled by ox team to be used in the famed Tabernacle organ in Salt Lake City. Almost everyone in our part of the Southwest has a pioneer bedstead, chair, or butter churn made from Pine Valley pine. This mountain of trees is where the pioneers got their lumber for what we now call our priceless relics. One day the logging hands were hungrily eating, when one of them mentioned a large pine standing by itself near the fork in the road. In fact, it was in the direct path of logging wagons going to the mill and could be called a nuisance. One man said he wished the miserable thing was out of the way. Another stated he was sick and tired of going around it. Half the time he nearly turned his wagon over trying to miss the thing. At that point I set down a pan of once-over eggs and announced that I could fell that tree myself. Well, you should have heard that tent full of men laugh! A girl! Saw that giant! "Well, PIl give you twenty dollars if you fell it!" yelled Jake, the camp spendthrift. "Tl take you on that!" I said. Whereupon they all shouted, slapped each other on the back, and were soon quite ready to take sides on this newest of challenges. "Why, I'll even give you twelve days to do it in," Jake promised. "Tl take you on that, too," said I. "But you'll have to fell it down canyon so it will be easy to haul off," he said. "Tl take you for that, too," said I again. What a rash team we both became! Then, thinking twenty dollars was not much for all the sawing I'd have to do, I said quite carelessly, "Guess I'll get the lumber from the tree, if I fell it." 'This, more like a statement than a question. Jake felt so sure of himself, he let go with both barrels, so to speak, and spoke out, "Sure you can have the tree. And what's more, I'll even haul it to the mill. And what can be sawed out of it, you can have!" You can see how deep both of us were in this rash dare together. At this, I thought the men would die laughing. Annie, and a saw, and that tree, they cried. Whoever heard of such a thing! All for twenty dollars. Why, Annie, you can't lose money that way! Listen, *This is a true incident in the life of Annie Carter Johnson of St. George, Utah. She was born in 1877, the daughter of William Carter who turned the first sod for irrigation in the Salt Lake Valley in July 1847. Mrs. Johnson is the only Utah woman credited with making a full page in Life magazine (September 6, 1954), with her poem "'Water," which was also published in the Congressional Record. Page 248 you don't make much more than that all summer! On they went. At about that moment the boss signaled for a start to the wagons and the men trouped out, each convinced that Jake's twenty was safe, for sure. Well, I turned to Sam, the lad who ran the dairy herd on the mountain, and I said, "Go find me a good four-pound broad ax. I want to try it out. If it's sharp, maybe I could get a start before time to peel potatoes for supper." — Sam reluctantly sharpened the ax, but warned me that no woman could strike off one chip from that 'huge, lonesome pine. _ "Want to offer me some money?" said I. But he must have seen the look in my eve, for he shrugged and lleft the subject: dangling. | HEN I was sure all the men were out of sight and 250 wouldn't get back for a couple of hours, I took the ax and started up the road. As I neared the tree, it loomed larger than I'd ever remembered it. No wonder it was still growing on the hillside. Must have been two yards through the center from the level at which I would saw. Or hack... Or whittle... Or scratch. You can see by this time it was making me dizzy just to sight up the bark to its branchless top — eaten off by porcupines. I circled it a time or two, then, with arms outspread and pressing my body close to the trunk, I measured nearly four times around it. Almost, just almost, I admitted it wasn't worth twenty miserable, backbreaking dollars to slave over this ancient piece of forest. I figured it must be as big around as our dinner table at home in the valley. At that moment I swung the ax up to rest it on my shoulder to carry it back to the cook shack and figure out how to raise the money to pay Jake on the only dare I had ever made. But, at that instant, there came Jake himself, jogging on top of a loaded wagon. He positively leered. 'That look decided me! Well, he saw me strike the first blow, and I trusted he would hang around for eleven more days to see this giant crash downhill. I swung, I hacked, I panted, and all my labor merely dented the crusty bark. I little more than etched a line where I planned to part this pine in two. The chips looked pretty small and scattered. I knew then that ax swinging was not for me. So, really shouldering the ax this time, I strode resolutely back to my RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 cooking. One day was gone already, and the chips wouldn't have started a camp fire. After breakfast the second day, I said to Sam, "Get mea whipsaw. I must get on with that tree." At that Sam gave me up as a lost cause. "Whoever heard of one person using a whipsaw?" Well, I guessed I'd lick this somehow. Late afternoon came, and still no plan developed. But when Sam came around with an old, battered, rusty whipsaw and shook his head as a final warning, I thought I had it at last. E got it sharpened, which took the rest of the day until after supper. 'Two days gone by on the tree felling and ma an inch of trunk exposed to view! I told myself not to mind the teasing of the lumberjacks, as they gave up for the night and mosied off to the bunkhouse to sleep. Poor Sam was beginning to take a conscientious view of this affair. By now he was as determined as | that the pine would come down; however, he was entirely unprepared to receive my most profound plan. You see, a whipsaw is long and slender — six or seven feet long, and with hook teeth. It has two handles, one on each end. It ls meant to be used by two men, each srasping a handle, as they stand in a pit dug around the tree. They brace themselves and pull and push and press and strain, and, in due time, the sawdust gathers in little slopes beneath the blade. The great triumph is reached when the fibers | of the tree can no longer keep the — living patriarch upright. With great TIMBER noise of splintering and crashing it falls to earth. It measures its length where for centuries its shadow only has caressed. The soil. But note, it takes two men to bring it down! And I was only a gitl of twenty with never a saw in my hands before. HAT night I gave it another try, so to speak, and while I was putting some milk on a shelf for the cream to rise, I bumped my elbow, and spilled some milk, and had to wipe it up. That bump against the shelf nudged forth the idea — why not make a shelf for the saw to rest on, that is, the other end from my end. Or, since the saw had two ends, each with a handle, why not have the shelf long enough to rest whatever end I was not using at the moment. How perfectly wonderful, I said to myself, maybe this is sort of an invention! The next day, the third of the challenge, after breakfast I got Sam to help me build just such a shelf next to the tree about waist high. After that I had to go back to the cook shack to work. By now Sam just as good as told me I was addled in the head. In the interest of time, he reasoned, I had already lost one fourth of it in just thinking. When the men came in that night they let me know that the bench I had made by the tree was pretty good and would be a nice place to sit and read in the shade, but would cost me twenty dollars as a season's retreat. I said not a word in self-defense. And Sam, to his credit, didn't give me away. On the fourth day after my early chores, I stalked up to the tree with 251 a sort of Paul Bunyan stride. The whipsaw glistened in the sun and its teeth gave promise of good work as they caught my skirt with a sharp snag. 'Then, looking around to see that no one was near, I laid the saw teeth to the tree, the far end on the shelf; and threw my weight on the handle to give it the first push. It worked! The idea, I mean. It worked, as back and forth I pulled and pushed. In hard spots I walked around the tree to the shelf end of the saw and jerked it back through a stubborn section. I worked fast, I worked frantically. Before long, small streams of sawdust were flowing from the lengthening scratch in the bark. I think the smell of the damp, living tree slivers was the sweetest perfume I had ever inhaled. Nothing could stop me now. After an hour of this pulling, hauling, and running from on2 end of the saw to the other, Sam called up the hill that I better get on down and mix the dough for tonight's bread. I looked at the size of one hour's sawing and realized that already the width of the saw was lost in the gash. (Only the silver ends grew and lessened as I gave my strength to the handles.) I forced it another dozen pushes and pulls and then went down to my cooking. For a moment Sam had me scared. "What if the tree falls up canyon?" he asked. "You won't get your twenty bucks then!" This just showed how little he knew about lumbermen's ways. You don't start sawing until you have decided where the trunk shall fall. I hadn't been in a lumber camp every summer for ten years for nothing. 252 ELL, let's get on by saying that by using every spare moment, and straining every muscle, and after blistering both hands and coming to use out-sized gloves, I knew I could finish that pine in record time. By actual sawing time, it took me three hours and forty minutes to cut through that wooden giant. I don't know how many trips it took me to get to it and hasten back to watch my pots and pans, but it must have been dozens. How happy I was when it lay there, pointing downhill, as Jake had demanded. Why, I just jumped upon its back and ran to the top end, and sat down, laughing all over. I was a little frightened, too, in a way, when I considered how huge it was — over fifty inches across — and how small I was, and how long it had grown there on Pine Valley Mountain, and how, maybe, the Lord just didn't want it ever to be cut down. That night at supper the men were praising me no end for the sawing and jokingly offered to trade jobs with me. I said all I wanted was my money and the lumber sawed out of that big trunk. Right there the whole plan struck a snag. Jake sort of stopped laughing and said he didn't owe me the twenty! I said he did, he said he didn't, over and over, until I was nearly in tears outside and crying like a baby inside. I looked down at my blistered fingers and vowed RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 to get that money if I never lived another minute. The upshot of it was that Jake left the camp for a day or two. He just couldn't stand me pestering him night and morning. Finally, he came back expecting the whole thing to have blown over. But when he found I was more determined than ever to collect, and I had the word of all the boys that he did make the proposition, he just had to admit to it. It seems as if, in his mind, a game like that with a girl was for fun! But then, he had never run up against one like me! I made him keep his word, too, about hauling that tree to the sawmill, and by then he seemed pretty cured of the whole affair. And the lumber they sawed out of that controversial pine tree! The company gave me $320 for those boards, and what with the twenty from Jake, that made $340 for three hours and forty minutes work, or about one hundred dollars an hour. I almost gave up cooking in favor of Sawing. They were building Dixie College in St. George at the time, and the carpenters said my lumber went into the stairway in the main building. They were in use for nearly forty years — educated steps, I always thought. Somehow, whenever I climbed those stairs I was reminded of the one and only time I staked my strength and determination for money. Somehow, I couldn't figure out whether I should have done such a thing, even for once! Linnie F. Robinson | decided to stop quilting for a moment and write a letter of appreciation _ for the many fine articles published in our Magazine. I have, in mv mind, written many such letters about various editorials, stories, or poems, and I have read what others have written in "From Near and Far" and mentally assented to their words. But, today, it occurred to me while I was quilting a third lounging robe that some words of appreciation ought to be written. I made two robes that were so lovely and yet so practical that I am now making a third. I got the idea in the September 1961 issue from the article by Holly B. Keddington, and decided that by quilting the robe she described, I could have something warm, yet washable and_ beautiful. I used nylon print for the top, dacron batt, and white nylon lining, so the robes will wash and wear and look lovely indeed. Prior to this I have made only wool flannel lounging robes. 'The quilted nylon robe makes a more practical gift, I think. I remember a few years ago an article came out showing some beautiful gold sprayed roses in a three-tiered epergne (The Relief Society Magazine, December 1957, page 802). Since I had a large box of various kinds of artificial roses stored away, I made some up, and they were lovely. I still have the gold roses tucked away, and I found that paper roses sprav easiest and best. But the interesting thing about it all is that wherever I went I found that others had made these lovely gilded blossoms, too, and had read the article. I might add that my garden efforts are more successful because I read the Magazine garden articles, and they arouse my enthusiasm. I don't need to mention the food articles — as long as there are women who cook, new recipes will be eagerly sought after. I have heard all my life so much comment in praise of the Magazine that I think its worth, with some of us, is something like day and night — taken for granted. As a stake worker, I visited many wards and have heard women, as they express gratitude for the Relief Society organization, also express gratitude for the Magazine. I have heard them tell how they found stories, poems, editorials, or sermons therein that had solved some problem or had helped them in their daily life. Perhaps because I write, I have often been invited to speak in Sunday evening Relief Society programs, at stake leadership meetings, and March anniversary celebrations in other stakes and wards in surrounding areas, and I found that what was true in our stake was also true in these others. So I close with a wish that as long as there are Latter-day Saint women may there also be found the inspiration and blessing of our treasured Magazine. Page 253 sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, April 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NATIONS" THE DAY IN WHICH WE LIVE: Thousands of women have been praying for this day and age in which we live, and are now basking in its sunshine of progress and development; the prophets and seers of old, the sages and poets all down along the line have lifted their voices in anticipation of such a time, a day of freedom that has already begun to dawn; its roseate light of splendor is lighting up the everlasting hills of promise.... The faith of the many who thirsted for righteousness has so far prevailed that greater light has come into the world and broader charity and love is being disseminated, truth that will dispel the darkness of error. — Editorial APRIL'S AFIELD April's afield! April's in the air! Almost you may see each hour Willows that at dawn were bare, Meadows that were brown, On which the lengthening mellow day has burned, Creep into green before the sun goes down. And some black bough while mortal backs were turned, Swift stolen into flower. — Selected RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY IN BENNINGTON, IDAHO: The sixticth anniversary of the organization of Relief Society was duly celebrated.. An address of welcome was given by President Margaret VanOrman, after which a program of speeches and songs and instrumental music was rendered. An excellent sketch of the life of Aunt Zina Young was given by Sister Rebecca Lindsay.... At two o'clock one hundred and seventy people were seated at the tables which were loaded with a delicious dinner.... At 3:30 the program was continued, consisting of singing, imstrumental music and step dancing. — An Observer A GIFT FOR PRESIDENT THEODORE ROOSEVELT'S WIFE: Mrs. Roosevelt has received a gift from President Diaz of Mexico, consisting of three pieces of exquisitely drawn linen. They are said to be the most beautiful specimens that have ever come to this country, and were sent to Mrs. Roosevelt as a special recognition of her encouragement to the linen workers in Porto Rico. — News Note But there is One who knoweth — thy worth the angels tell, And thy reward is doubly sure — He doeth all things well! — Ellis R. Shipp Page 254 a RS. MARVIN (JOJEAN) LOFLIN was the one woman on the fourrmember team of Brigham Young University students who defeated four other college teams in succession on the national television program "College Bowl" — a weekly battle of brains and academic information. 'The other students were Robert Despain, Todd A. Britsch, and David Stone. On the fifth round, the "Y" students were defeated by Depauw University. Mrs. Loflin, who has a two-year old son and will be graduated in June, was noted among the students of all the teams for her wide knowledge and quick answers. She is an active Latter-day Saint young woman. The team won $6,500 in scholarships for the Brigham Young University and respect from audiences. HELEN HAYES, "Great Lady of the American Theater," is pictured as a devoted, wise, and sensible mother in an article in the February issue of Good Housekeeping by her beloved adopted son, James MacArthur. She gave him his first piano lessons; she paints and does sculpturing and designs and makes dresses as hobbies — all excellently; she has been awarded seven honorary degrees. She has recently been received with great } & LAs arnaanm VyYoman S: - | Ramona W. Cannon acclaim, traveling and acting with the Theater Guild, first in Europe, then in thirteen South American countries — as a representative of the United States in the cultural exchange program. MBs. WILMA RUDOLPH WARD, the outstanding woman track athlete in the United States, was voted the 1961 James E. Sullivan Award as top athlete in this country. Her runner-up was 'Tommy Kono, world champion weightlifter from Honolulu. RS. GLADYS SCHMITT, professor of English at Carnegie Institute of 'Technology, did a vast amount of painstaking and accurate research for her recently published fictional biography of the great seventeenth-century Dutch painter Rembrandt. 'The writing is brilliant and the facts are adhered to closely. YLVIA PORTER (Mrs. G. Sumner Collins), business columnist, and economics analyst, has a potential reading public of more than twenty-three million people. Her daily column "Your Dollar" appears in 311 newspapers, "giving her a distribution vastly wider than that of any other syndicated business columnist." Page 255 EDITORIAL <cm~2 "L Will Pour Out My Spirit' ROM a meeting of six people in a small town in New York State to over a million and threequarter people located on every continent in the world — these figures represent the growth in membership of The Church of Jesus Christ since it was restored to the earth in 1830, one hundred thirty-two years ago this April 6. In speaking of the organizational meeting, the Prophet Joseph Smith wrote: We dismissed with the pleasing knowledge that we were now individually members of, and acknowledged of God, "The Church of Jesus Christ," organized in accordance with commandments and revelations given by Him to ourselves in these last days, as well as according to the order of the Church as recorded in the New Testament (DHC I:79). To Latter-day Saints today the growth of the Church seems phenomenal, yet to the Prophet Joseph and succeeding prophets of the Lord this growth was to be expected, for a vision of the destiny of the Church has been theirs. In 1843, the Prophet Joseph declared: Take Jacob Zundell and Frederick H. Moeser... And send them to Germany; and when you meet with an Arab, send him to Arabia; when you find an Italian, send him to Italy; and a Frenchman, to France; or an Indian that is suitable, send him among the Indians. Send them to the different places where they belong. Send somebody to Central America and to all Spanish America; and don't let a Page 256 single corner of the earth go without a mission (DHC V:368). From and even before the time of the organization of the Church, the gospel net began to draw in its own. Converts in this country and Canada and in the old countries, aflame with the spirit of gathering, sailed the oceans and rode the rivers; ox teams plodded and saints walked laboriously the one thousand miles of dry land to their resting place in the Rocky Mountains. Before his martyrdom the Prophet Joseph foretold that the saints would become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains. Isaiah of ancient times had declared, And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills, and all nations shall flow unto it (Isaiah 2:2). The saints have become a mighty people in the midst of the Rocky Mountains, and the gathering continues but, still obedient to the voices of the prophets, the gathering of the saints in this day is in stakes, some far removed from Church headquarters, which are designated as places of gatherings for the saints, and where the greatest blessings of the sealing power have now been made available. The Savior is the head of the Church, and his mind and will are EDITORIAL revealed to the Church members through his chosen prophets. The members must have listening ears and accept the counsel, admonitions, and warnings of the present leaders and follow them implicitly. Joel spoke of the day when the Lord said, "T will pour out my spirit upon all flesh" (Joel 2:28). The wonderful progress taking place in the Church could be in fulfillment of that prophecy. As the Church spreads over the earth, so the organization of Relief Society spreads, that it may accomplish its divine purpose among the sisters and for the blessing of the Church members generally. 'The present prophet, President David O. McKay, has declared "Every Church member a missionary." If Relief Society is to keep pace in its designated place in the Church, then members will heed this injunction, 257 will be obedient to the Priesthood in their homes, teach and train their sons and daughters, as called, to go on missions, teach righteous principles and themselves lead exemplary lives. If every Relief Society member is a missionary — by precept when called and always by example — each one will then be participating in the blessings described in holy writ as "How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace" (Isaiah 52:7). This is a glorious day in which to be permitted to live, and glorious accomplishments are expected of those who are living now. May Relief Society live up to its blessings and great opportunities in this day of phenomenal growth and expansion. —M. C. S. Music Padda M. Speller The sunset on majestic peaks Glows richer than before; Sweeter sound the mountain creeks When we have music at our core. Verdant valleys greener seeming, Birds, more graceful, swifter dart, Beauty far beyond our dreaming When we have music in our heart. With humble dignity we are shod, And to nobility inclined, Walking hand in hand with God, When we have music in our mind. In melody, and sweetly, flows Life on, and when years take their toll There is joy, contentment, and repose, When we have music in our soul. Votes. TO THE FIELD - Lesson rreviews to Appear in the June Issue Ww of The Relief Society Magazine HE previews for the 1962-63 lessons will appear in the June 1962 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, and the lessons for October will be in the July 1962 issue. In order to obtain the June issue of the Magazine it will be necessary for renewals and new subscriptions to reach the General Offices by the first of May 1962. It is suggested that Magazine representatives check their lists immediately so that all Relief Society members will receive all of the issues containing the lessons. It is suggested that ward presidents make this announcement in the April meetings. Starless Interlude Annie Atkin Tanner There is an hour between the close of day, And the coming in of night, When twilight drapes the granite folds of mountainsides, The darkening blue of sea and sky, The edge of desert loneliness, With a strange, translucent beauty. This is a time for quiet meditation, When tired day welcomes in the tranquil evening time, The gentle call of drowsy, nesting birds, The sighing sound of wind in willow trees, The mist-gray velvet of the changing dusk. In this hour of starless interlude, We seek for understanding and compassion, For those who sometimes walk alone; We ask for courage to meet the problems of each day, For faith and hope and peace in all the world. In the twilight hour, we humbly pray. Page 258 Cancer Education, Research, and Service Rutherford L. Ellis Cl 121 irman Board of Di ecto T A OT f in Cary dyy TATISTICIANS tell us that in 1962 about 275,000 Americans will die of cancer; that over the years, the disease will strike in approximately two of three American families. Lifting from mankind the burden of cancers immense tool is one of the greatest challenges that face humanity. The American Cancer Society's Annual Educational and Fund-raising Crusade helps to meet these challenges. There has been encouraging progress. 'This year marks the 25th anniversary of the following two significant events in the American struggle to conquer cancer: 1. Enactment of a National Cancer Institute Act which created the National acer Institute. Launching by the American Cancer Society of its first Nation-wide, public — campaign out of which was to come a broad program of education, research, and service through voluntary support. The year 1962 has been designated "Cancer Progress Year." The objectives of the National Cancer Institute and the American Cancer Society in this year will be to report to the public on where science now stands in cancer research, to intensify the efforts being made to persuade the public to act for its own protection, to improve the care of the cancer patient, and to step up all programs to speed the final victory over cancer. There are now 1,100,000 Americans alive today, who have been cured of cancer. This means they are alive without evidence of the disease at least five years after diagnosis and treatment. An additional 700,000 cancer patients diagnosed and treated within the last five years will live to enter the ranks of those we call "cured." However, about 87,000 cancer patients will probably die in 1962, who might have been saved by earlier and better treatment. These needless deaths are a tragic reminder that we must redouble our efforts in this great fight. Join with the two million volunteers of the American Cancer Society and ""To Cure More, Give More." <a Doing Good Catherine B. Bowles The day is ended. Have you offended Someone along the way? Were burdens made lighter, Did the sun shine brighter, For the weary and worn today? Page 259 " EA looked with pride at her | first child, as he lay by her side upon the hospital bed. He was dressed in the softest of soft, new, blue cotton flannel nighties, and wrapped in one of his beautiful new blankets, all ready to make his first trip out through the sand dunes and date groves of Coachella Valley, to his home. Rea settled the collar of her dainty, fresh duster and wished that Steve would hurry. 'The later he was, the hotter it would be, and, besides, she was anxious to be home again with her husband and new baby. She wondered if the wind last night had left the usual little windrows of sand upon window and doorsill. "Hi, honey." Steve's cheerful voice spoke from the doorway. She turned quickly, "Oh, Steve, I thought you would never get here. They are about to charge us for another day, you are so late." But the rebuke was softened by her smile and affectionate kiss as he came closer. "Don't worry, darling. I have already paid the bill, and they did not charge us for an extra day!" He hugged her gently, as if she would break, and bent over to get a closer look at his son. "Mmmm, looks like Grandpa, I should say." "Oh, no, Steve. He looks like you " She started to protest. A nurse bustled in with a wheel chair. "Who in the world is that for?" Rea protested. Page 260 "You will be tired by the time you ride all that way home, Mrs. Baker. You will wish you had this chair then," the nurse replied, helping her into the chair in a no-nonsense fashion, and placing the baby on her lap. She took them down the emergency ramp and out to the parking lot. When the outer door swung open, a blast of hot air, as though from an oven, hit them in the face. Rea gasped a little, and as soon as she had climbed into the middleaged pick-up, unwrapped the baby. Their drive took them west, past the date orchards whose lofty treetops cast a deceptively cool-looking shade within the groves, then past several grapefruit orchards, and, finally, onto a dusty road which ran erratically through the barren California desert toward the hills. At last, in the distance, she could see their own young date trees, hardly big enough yet to cast a shade, and on the other side of the road, the new little grapefruit trees, looking dusty and sparse among the barren flats. "Reason I was so late,'"' Steve explained as they neared home, "was that we had a dust storm last night, and I didn't want you to come home to the house like that, so I went all over it before I went after you." "Thank you for doing that, Steve darling. I did hate the thoughts of the dust after that wind last night." HEY drove into the carport, and Steve hopped out quickly and A NAME BEFORE THE LORD ran around and tenderly lifted the baby into his arms for the first time. "Come to your Dad, Hy. My aren't you the big thing!" he added as he felt the smallness of his new son. A shadow crossed Rea's face at Steve's use of the name "Hy." "I didn't name him that, Steve. Remember, I said I did not like it?" she asked hesitantly. "Yes, but you wanted to name him that sissy name — what was it?" "Lanny." "And I didn't like that, and besides, it doesn't mean anything, so I just thought you had called him Hyrum." Steve looked rather impatient, but seeing how wan Rea suddenly looked, standing there in the heat, he hurried her inside and helped her to lie down on the davenport near the cooler, before he pursued the subject further. 'Then, with the baby still on his arm, he sat down beside her and said more gently, "Well, dear, what did you name him?" "IT didn't name him anything," she said. "I thought about Hyrum, as you said to, but I still didn't like it.' 'Then she put her hand over her mouth in alarm, "Oh, Steve, we were supposed to stop at the desk on the way out of the hospital and tell them what we had decided — and then that nurse was in such a hurry, she took us the other way, and I forgot all about it." "Oh, well, I can stop and tell them what we have decided next time I am in town," he said, mollified that she had not named his son without his consent. "Yes, I am sure we will find one we both like. I thought of a new one we had not tried before, just 261 this morning. It is Lowen, how do you like that?" "Well, not too bad, but, honey, when we have so many wonderful men in the family, and in the Church, or even in the Nation to name him after, why do we have to pick one out of thin air? I think that names have, or can have, a great influence on their owners. If we give him one like that, he won't have anyone to pattern after." "Nonsense, Steve! He will pattern after you — and what more could anyone ask?" and she pulled Steve's cheek down against hers for a moment. "If the name had not already been used by your sister, I would want him to be Stephen, like you — it is even a rather pretty name, I think." "Boys' names are not supposed to be pretty, like girls' names, honey. They are supposed to have more of a, well, a solid sound, and I think they should mean something. That is — when your name is also that of a person you admire, you will naturally try to emulate that person." Steve tried hard to get his point across. "I know that," Rea agreed, "but I think the name should sound nice, too. It is too bad your parents did not give you a middle name, we might have used that, but we will think of one yet. Don't you worry." "T wish you did not dislike Hyrum so much, though, because it is Grandpa's name, and he not only is a fine person himself, but he was named after the Prophet Joseph Smith's brother, who was a real servant of the Lord, a truly great man. Think what an example that would be to our son." 262 Rea looked thoughtful for a moment, then slowly sleek her head. 'tht sounds so, well, old-fashioned," she said gravely, "T am sure I would never like it." Steve tried not to show his disappointment, as he rose to put the baby down and get their lunch, but it was a serious matter to him, and his usually irrepressible good spirits were subdued as he pondered the situation. Rea had joined the Church shortly before they were married, and there were many things in which her different background showed up. He had expected her to throw away a great many of her old attitudes in a bundle, and then fill the void with new, once she was baptized. Now he began to realize that each old one had to be literally pushed out by a better one, before it would give way. As Steve moved quickly about the kitchen, he resolved that he would not say anything more to spoil her first day at home. The naming could come later. When he returned to the living room with a tray for her and one for himself, he seemed cheerful once more. She responded thankfully, and vowed to herself that she would find a name they could agree upon. The days flew by. Rea gained her strength fast, for she had always been strong and athletic. Now she used her strength in caring for home and family, and even helping outside at times. The hospital sent them an urgent letter, asking that they be notified what the baby's name was, so the birth could be recorded, but they could not reach a decision. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 T last the month was drawing to a close. "We will have to decide on this fellow's name pretty soon," Steve said one morning, leaning over and chucking his son under the chin. "It will soon be Fast Sunday and time to give him his blessing and name before the Lord." "If your family only had a single name in it that sounded nice, we could," Rea said with asperity. She was sorry as soon as she had said it, for Steve's mouth drew down, and in a moment he had gone out of the door and she heard the pickup tires throw gravel as he drove out of the driveway. Oh, dear, why is it so hard for me to give in, she thought in distress, or why can't he give in? I have suggested so many names, surely one of them would do, but no, it has to be Hyrum. The morning dragged on. At lunch time, she prepared an extra nice lunch, but Steve did not come. He was watering away down at the farthest end of the orchards, and she could not take the baby so far in the heat, so there was nothing to do but wait until he came. The afternoon was even longer than the morning. The thunder clouds seemed to be building up over the mountains, even more than usual, and the air was laden with moisture. The cooling system did not seem to help much, and she turned it off. Toward five o'clock she noticed that the sun was obscured, and soon it became so oppressive in the house that she took the baby up, putting a small blanket over her arm first, so that his little bare back would A NAME BEFORE THE LORD not be against her skin and cause him to perspire all the more, then went outside to find Steve. Flashes of sheet lightning filled the sky as she walked along on the damp earth between the rows of small trees, but she was not afraid. She rather liked the fury of the storm than feared it. She did think it better to be on dry ground, though, for fear one of the great streaks of lightning might strike near and be conducted to her. She turned and hurried to the side of the orchard and walked along there. As she neared the end of the tree rows, she looked every way for Steve, but he was not there. She could not see the pickup either, and felt very tired, and let-down. 'The baby was getting heavy on her arm, and she shifted him to her shoulder. The clouds had gathered so thickly that it would have been nearly dark, except for the continual sheets of lightning in the sky, which illumined the whole countryside in an eerie manner. 'There was a shallow draw near the end of the orchard leading to higher ground. 'Thinking she might catch sight of the pickup from there, she decided to go on up. Gusts of wind tore down from the hills, as she toiled along, making it even harder to walk in the soft sand. She wrapped the blanket about the baby, thankful that she had brought it. Soon, big, splashy drops of rain thudded down, borne by the wind. It must be raining up there, she thought idly, enjoying the huge drops on her face, but after a few more steps she heard a. Strange, rushing sound. In utter disbelief, 263 she saw a huge wall of water not more than fifty feet away at the head of the draw. For a split second, she watched its tumbling confusion as it broke over the edge and bore down upon her, then, with a high-pitched scream, she turned to the left and ran up the side on slipping feet, through the sand. ITH a desperate glance over the top of the baby's head, she saw she would not be able to get clear. Instantly she stopped, braced her feet as best she could, and, using the blanket as a sling, threw him awav from her as far as she could. He left her hand just as the water caught her ankles, swirled the sand from under her feet, and, already off-balance from the throw, she fell sidewavs and rolled over and over, pushed on by the rolling water, until, miraculously, she felt a small bush under her and grasped it and held it long enough to stop her wild roll. She braced herself by it for a moment, feeling the water level subside around her as the crest passed. The baby! "Oh, please, oh, let him be safe!" she pleaded over and over as she struggled with all her might to get free, not knowing whether he had tumbled back into the water or not. Her movements felt hindered, even after the water sank away, as though she still struggled against it. She could not move fast enough. Her breath came in great gasps as she climbed to the top of the rise, and with a sob of thanksgiving saw the baby lying, face down on the ground, his blanket a few feet away, where he had rolled out of it. 264 Rushing to him, she snatched him up, fearful anew that he was hurt, but the quick jerk of her hands caused him to catch his breath, which had been knocked completely out of him. His lungs inflated, and in the next instant he screamed with all the pent-up fear a young babe can know. He lived! Gratitude flooded her being, and she sank upon her knees and gave thanks to God. SOMETIME later, Rea realized that she was sitting upon the eround, cold and shaking uncontrollably. 'The baby had cried himself into exhaustion and slept relaxed upon her lap. She put her ear to his mouth. His breathing was soft and regular. The peak of the storm had passed, and a big moon rolled high in the sky, in and out among the clouds. By its light she examined the baby more closely. His face was swollen and bruised. A knot had appeared behind his ear where he had evidently hit a small rock. The place was cut too, but not badly. 'The blanket must have still been around RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 him when he hit. Shuddering anew at thoughts of what might have been, Rea bowed her head and gave thanks again. While she sat thus bowed over the child in the most humble thanksgiving of her life, memory of the controversy between her and her husband came back to her mind. Suppose her baby had died without even a name, she thought suddenly. How horrible! Why had they been so stubborn — why had she been so stubborn? Now she saw her own attitude in a new light, as trivial and selfish. Steve was right. Their son's name should be one to which honor had already been brought through the life of a godly man who held it. When she heard Steve's voice calling her in panic and desperation, she rose and ran on swift feet to meet him. She could hardly wait to tell him, and when they drew near to each other, running and holding out the boy, she called out, "His name is Hyrum, darling." And as his arms closed around them, she knew she would love that name forever. Point of View Gladys Hesser Burnham Some folks think mountains hem one in, Obstruct a lengthening scene, Their rocky crags frown down in awe To dwarf — almost demean. These friendly arms encircle me, I lift my eyes to God; Illimitable, protective might, Their height's a beckoning rod. My Son Is on a Mission Agnes K. Morgan AS our missionary force grows, I hear many mothers tell of their sons and of their places of labor. Then I wonder if these other mothers share some of the same emotions and thoughts that are mine. When our son left, I was tired, sad, and was filled with an immense feeling of regret for all the things that I had not done; yet, I was so very, very grateful for this worthy son. I carried a quiet joy in my heart, seeking not to be proud except in gratitude to the Lord for such a precious son. My soul knelt inside of me to thank my Father in heaven, while my head was raised high in radiance of the joy of the gospel. I was slow to clear away things and close his desk; slow to put away the evidence of his living here; reluctant at night to lock the front door and turn out the lights, for I still waited for the sound of his car and his arrival home. I prepared good family meals — the number at the table seemed small. To sustain me, there was a sweeping gratitude for worthy sons, for my husband and our other precious children; gratitude for the principles of the gospel that have made these blessings possible; gratitude that other mothers have reared fine sons to be companions to mine in the mission field; gratitude that this was our third son to do missionary work. I am so glad that I could open the door within my heart and let my son go. Now, I close that door, knowing those lovely memories behind it are always there; knowing that as I close this door, another is opening in visions of hope and love and faith, and new activity; knowing that always, with each child, doors open to new vistas and close on finished chapters, while mothers become wiser in the ways of children — and doors — and understanding. Thus we gain a fulness of living, with joy in that fulness, and a testimony. "For I the Lord thy God will hold thy right hand, saying unto thee, Fear not; I will help thee" (Isaiah 41:13). -—_<- | Would Follow Thee Mildred Wentworth Jesus Christ, Redeemer, too, I would leave all and follow you. Thou art the light upon the hill; A beacon guiding me until My time upon this earth is past. And, kneeling at thy feet at last, I hear thy sweet commanding voice Say, "Come to me. Rejoice, rejoice." Page 265 "Singing Sermons" Caroline Eyring Miner Y mother knew almost every song in the hymn book by heart. She was not a talented singer, but she could carry a tune with enthusiasm and some accuracy, and she loved to sing. Sometimes, on a Sunday afternoon, she would gather us around the piano, which had known better days, and, starting with "Abide With Me," we would sing through to "Dear to the Heart of the Shepherd," which, as I remember, was in those days, the last song in the book. "Count Your Many Blessings" was a favorite of Mother's, and she impressed its message upon us. 'There was never anyone who was more of an optimist than she. I often thought she was thankful that she didn't have anything except the spirit of being thankful. Now I know that is truly something to be thankful for. "Angry Words! Oh, Let Them Never From the Tongue Unbridled Slip," we learned as a duet, and its message sank deep into my heart. Family harmony was a reality in more ways than one. "Do What Is Right... Let the consequence follow" put the fearless militancy of the crusader into our hearts. It was Mother's Father's favorite and exemplified his fearlessness well. We were rewarded with a dime each for learning the words of this magnificent hymn from beginning to end. In our home evenings we usually sang "Love at Home," page 49. It was easy to find and could be counted upon to set the proper mood. The words were then sung automatically, but the phrases come back to me again and again with renewed significance. '""There is joy in every sound when there's love at home.... Oh, there's One who smiles on high when there's love at home." "O My Father," with its plaintive melody and its bitter sweetness of sad associations at funerals was another song Mother loved to sing. The greatest favorite, though, was ""T'here Is an Hour of Peace and Rest." There is an hour of peace and rest, Unmarred by earthly care; "Tis when before the Lord I go, And kneel in secret prayer. May my heart be turned to pray, Pray in secret day by day These "'sung sermons" have stayed with me much longer than the unsung ones, maybe because I was not conscious of their being sermons at all. By contrast, I tremble to think of the "sung sermons" some of our children are getting from television and radio without supervision. Maybe, as parents, we had better start singing more sermons of our own. Page 266 A Latter-day Saint Schoolteacher in Beaver, Alaska Elizabeth Peterson Zabriskie HIS is our second Sunday in T Beaver, and in many ways it seems as if we have been here much longer. The time has been spent in varied activities, some new experiences, and others the usual routine business of getting settled. Our trip was pleasant, highlighted by meeting with friends in Fairbanks and spending an enjoyable evening talking over old times. We attended church in the new chapel, which was quite a change from the time when we held our meetings in the homes of members. We also visited our old home on the farm outside of Fairbanks and the University of Alaska, both showing some growth, but still familiar. From Fairbanks to Beaver we flew in an old B-17 loaded with freight and moose hunters. 'This was a rough flight, and before we reached Fort Yukon the boys were air sick. It got worse from Fort Yukon to Beaver, so I joined them, and when we finally arrived the plane couldn't land, so we returned to Fort Yukon and the "bush pilot" took us and a little of our luggage into Beaver. The weather was windy, wet, and chilly, but the faces of the people who met the plane were bright and smiling and we were happy to see them. The engineer who accompanied us from Fairbanks soon had the generator and fires going. He hired the school janitor who had been here last year, and he began hauling water. The boys, with their new friends, went rabbit hunting and returned shortly with three rabbits. These, with food left from the school lunch program, provided us with food. The plane returned in the evening with our bedding and the few groceries I had purchased in Fairbanks, and thus we spent the first day in our new home. The school is a large building and a landmark to every river and air pilot in this region. More than its size accounts for this fame, however, for to keep the generator working properly we must burn the lights all the time and they can be seen for miles. At night we turn lights on, instead of out. The water is hauled from the river in large barrels and left to stand so the dirt will settle, then it is pumped into a large tank for use in the school. 'The hot water tank is very small, so I must heat all water for washing and bathing. We also boil all water we drink, and even this gets pretty dark and thick toward the bottom of the jug. In fact, at first, the boys thought it was punch, but like everything else we soon got used to it and the taste really isn't bad. Our quarters are comfortably furnished except for the curtains, and these I have ordered from a catalogue. The dishes and silver are strictly G. I. We have oil heat and so far it has been warm, except for the floors, but the boys have wool socks and if I wear two pairs of anklets it is comfortable. We have Page 267 268 MUS. POST OFEE | | BEAVER POST OFFICE IN BEAVER, ALASKA RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 The author, Elizabeth P. Zabriskie, and her sons Duane and Sheldon are seen standing on the steps. Storm windows now, but Moses (the janitor) says there are more to go up before it gets cold. We have two bedrooms, a bath, living room, kitchen, and a little radio room where I send and receive all messages for the village. 'There is a guest room upstairs, and it is one of my duties to provide food and lodging for all health and welfare personnel who visit the village. Judging from the past week, we will not be lonesome, for we have had a guest nearly every night, and this week we are expecting the X-ray unic in the village. The school ls the center of all village activity, and I, the teacher, am expected to be in charge of it all. UTSIDE of teaching and entertaining guests, my duties include planning menus and organizing the hot lunch program (the mothers do the cooking), arranging for movies to be shown once a week, dispensing all drugs to the natives in the village, each day report over the radio to the hospital in 'Tanana any sickness in the village, and receive instructions as to what to do about it. Each evening I have radio contact with Fairbanks to receive any telegrams or telephone messages and to send any messages from here, and there are times when the traffic ls quite heavy, as the other night we were on the air from 8:00 P. M. To 11:25 trying to get three messages through. Another day one of the missionaries from the village was reported lost on a flight to Fairbanks, and we were on the air re ceiving messages until he was reported safe early the next morning. The village is small, consisting of A LATTER-DAY SAINT SCHOOLTEACHER IN BEAVER, ALASKA one-room log cabins, two stores, one of which is also the Post Office, two churches, the Episcopal and the Assembly of God. The village is located on the banks of the Yukon, a beautiful setting, with pine and birch trees surrounding it. From the front of our house we can see a few cabins and the river; from the back we can see the air strip, and the cemetery where the wind and weather have erased the names from most of the markers. This takes in the whole village, not much, but really a very pleasant place. It started snowing on September 27 and has snowed a little each day since, except today which is a beautiful sunny day, but the temperature was seven degrees above zero this morning, and even with the sun shining it hasn't risen much. We are waiting for the river to freeze enough for ice skating, which should be very soon, but they say the snow soon gets too deep, so there is really a very short time for skating, but we THE SCHOOLHOUSE ae tanh kaabens NR ae VS IN BEAVER, ALASKA 269 are looking forward to that little time and so is everyone in the village. It also gets too cold to spend much time outside, some claim it has been seventy-three below, but the records show sixty-four below as the coldest day last year. The people in the village have had their dog sleds out for about a week, and Duane and I are good riders, but that doesn't satisfy Sheldon, and he is learning to drive them. We have been promised a pup right away, so we may start a team of our own, or that is what the boys are planning. Started to teach school on the second of October, with thirtyfour students, ranging in ages from six to eighteen and grades one to eight. 'This is not as difficult as it may sound for they are all glad to be in school, and there are only two in the third and fifth grades, so I can put them with other groups, making only six groups. The children The dense forest can be seen in the background. The village of Beaver is located on the Yukon River in a setting of majestic beauty. 270 are happy, friendly, and willing, which makes teaching them a joy. There are Indians, Eskimos, and mixtures of Indian, Eskimo, White, Negro, and Japanese. I haven't figured out which is which yet, but it makes schoolteaching interesting. We are supposed to receive mail three times a week, but the weather has been so bad since we arrived that it has only been in twice, and though we can receive and send messages over the radio, it does seem quite isolated when we don't receive mail. Now that things are settling down to a routine, we can honestly say we are enjoying it, the boys learning to hunt and dog sled and making friends with the children, and I am enjoying my teaching very much. It is nice to be in a place where the people really seem to want you. In Fairbanks, on our way to Beaver, one of the brethren took us to our church and showed us the town. Since then, the three of us RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 have held Sunday School and Primary in our home. The boys have told the whole village we are Latterday Saints and what we believe. I have become very good friends with the Episcopal minister and his wife, but so far we haven't expressed our views on religion, but I have been invited to the Girls Friendly Society of the Episcopal Church to tell them about our Church. These experiences are strengthening our testimonies. Sheldon and Duane are studying The Book of Mormon. We like the village and the people very much. They are friendly and quite well educated. They all speak English. 'They want to be friends; they bring us moose, salmon, and slippers and mittens, which they have made. 'They come and ask if they can help me with anything, so I feel quite at home and among friends. I feel the Lord has really blessed us, and pray I can help my boys and myself along in our faith. Fame's Prayer Leora Larsen God, humble me through the glory of day, And cushion the cold numbness of my night With knowledge that I have not lost the way, And thou wilt keep me always in thy sight. A Compliment Cast on the Waters Evelyn Dorio O you ever feel as if you perform the million and one tasks around the house without anyone ever noticing or appreciating it? If you didn't put fresh water in the dog's dish, poor Fido would die of thirst; if you didn't pick up throw-away papers, the front lawn would sprout newsprint; if you didn't say, "This window screen needs replacing," your house would become headquarters for winged insects; if vou didn't. Such was my state of mind the morning the telephone rang and a co-worker of my husband's said, "Say, what's this special flower blooming in your patio today? Your husband says it's out of this world — six inches across, maybe seven, iridescent petals, and the stamens look like a white flower growing inside a bigger flower. What do you have, there? Did someone bring you a souvenir from outer space?" "It must be the hybrid epiphyllum," I replied. And when had my _ husband noticed all that? "Hybrid epiphyllum!" exclaimed the man. "That's my hobby. Will you exchange a cutting for a nice little citrus tree, tub and all? Grafted, too. You'll get oranges and lemons and pink grapefruit — maybe." After we hung up, I went outside to look at the "outer-space" flower. It really was exquisite. Sprinkling it earlier that morning, my thoughts had been too filled with self-pity to notice. But why hadn't my husband told me how beautiful it was? Instead, he told the whole office. Just wait until he gets home! But a moment later, I thought, no, if he had praised me, I would have felt a momentary pride, and the compliment would have ended there, died there. But since he needed to express it, the whole office was sharing this spectacular blossom. In the afternoon the epiphyllum hobbyist came to take colored slides of the flower, and within a week I had received a dozen compliments and exchanged cuttings with four other office people. Besides, my patio now has a tubbed citrus tree that may yield oranges and lemons and pink grapefruit — maybe. Weeds Celia Luce A weed is defined as a plant growing in the wrong place. Even a rose can be a weed in the middle of a wheat field. I must be sure I put my efforts in the right places. Page 27] From My Window | Watch Cleo Jones Johnson ROM my window I watch the progress of a new dwelling. Several weeks have passed now. 'The house has taken a beautiful form. It will boast of the latest of all the modern improvements, comforts, and conveniences. 'The proud owners wander in and out, inspecting this, approving that. They dream their dreams and anxiously await the day of moving. On its plush carpets their little children will play. Around the welllighted tables the academic studies will be learned. In the gleaming kitchen the mother will prepare her excellent, well-balanced meals. The heated garage has a "do-it-yourself" corner, where Dad can putter away his spare moments. Life is good, full of comfort, hope, and dreams. The workmen hurry faster now for the strong north wind has brought its first flurry of snow. MOK OK OK watch from my window and I remember the stories I've been told of other days. Seventy-five years ago my people came to this valley. With courage in their hearts and a prayer on their lips, they drove their team and wagon into the swift and turbulent waters of the mighty Snake River. They offered thanks for a safe passage across. They found their spot. They built a house. And they were grateful for the kind Providence which provided the material. 'The mighty river in its frequent rampages had Page 272 piled the trees which its fury had washed out along the banks. Time and the elements had barked the logs and weathered the wood. They cut small trees and willows to chink the big logs and they dabbed the cracks with mud. The roof had its covering of poles and dirt. They hurried the work, for winter was upon them. When deep snows covered the earth and cold penetrated everywhere, when the mournful cry of the coyote was heard close by the door, they found their feeling of security within the four walls of the crude log dwelling. The old stove, with its warped covers and broken door in front of the grate, gave not only warmth but cheer as its fire glowed. The smell of the cottonwood fuel was pleasant. The food set upon the table was simple and sometimes meager — potatoes, bread, milk, sometimes an egg or bacon. Never was it eaten without the proper thanksgiving prayer. Improvements came slowly. A wooden bucket hung on its rope near the new open well, and the barrels which had been used to haul the culinary water from the river found other uses. Inside the house the ceiling was covered with an unbleached material called factory which was whitewashed, as were the walls. A strip of homemade carpet partly covered the unmatched boards of the rough plank floor. The flickering light of the candle was replaced by the kerosene FROM MY WINDOW | WATCH lamp. Scrupulously clean. Life was good, full of faith, hope and dreams. For many years this humble structure gave shelter from storm, blizzard, heat, cold, night, enemies imaginary and real. It fostered love, security, thanksgiving, vision, faith, discipline, contentment, peace. Under its roof morning and evening prayers were a regular institution, and the children were taught many lessons in early life, including thrift, dependability, self-reliance; a knowledge that all owed a debt of gratitude to the community and its members; that happiness comes through sharing, helping, giving; that proThe little house was kept 273 gression is a move in which all must give a share. The old log house is a memory now, a blessed memory to those who were reared there and to those who will come after. EK KK ODAY from my window I watch, and in my heart I find a prayer, "O Father, may we who enjoy the inheritance of those brave pioneer souls, prove faithful to the heritage that is ours. May we take the responsibility of teaching our children the important things in life. May we feel gratitude for that which we have. May we be worthy of thy love. Thanks for the memory of an old log house. —— Enough Hazel Loomis I want no more than corn to grind — Or sheep to tend. Enough, if by a scrubby tree, I sit the whole day long As mother, weaving, Hums a song. Enough, to sit for just an hour Beside my father's hogan fire — Enraptured artist, color rising in his face, Pounding silver Into lace. I need no pillow for my head, A pallet of clean sand, my bed. Where hearts glow warm — where smoke leaps higher, Enough, the peace Of a hogan fire. —— Attitudes Even the desire to do our best brings hope and the beginning of gladness. Tich, then, shall the harvest be. How —Pauline M. Bell Candy for Your Easter Basket Caroline L. Naylor CaRrAMELS 1 ¢c. Milk 1 c. White syrup % Ib. Butter, vanilla 1 Cc. Sugar 1 c. Chopped nuts Mix all ingredients together over low heat, stirring constantly. Bring to boil 240° F. Remove from heat. Add vanilla and nut meats. Pour into buttered pan. When cold turn out onto wax paper and cut into small squares. CHOCOLATE CuHip FuDGE 1 tall can evaporated milk Y% |b. Butter (13 fluid ounces) 3 c. Nuts 4% c. Sugar 1 tsp. Vanilla 3 pkg. Chocolate chips | 18 oz. Marshmallows Boil milk and sugar mixture ten minutes, stirring constantly. Mix remaining ingredients separately, then add milk and sugar mixture. Beat and add nuts. Form into rolls or drops. Divinity 2 ¢. Sugar pinch of salt % ¢. Water 1 tbsp. Vanilla % ¢. Com syrup _. 1 ¢. Nuts and coconut 3 egg whites | al chopped together Place sugar, water, and corn syrup into a saucepan. Hold above heat and stir until sugar dissolves. Place on heat and let cook (do not stir while cooking) to a crack stage 260° F. While it is cooking beat three egg whites stiffly and add a pinch of salt. When syrup is ready slowly pour it over egg whites, beating constantly, or better still, use electric beater. Beat until it is creamy and stands alone, then add vanilla and nuts. Spoon out or turn into a tin lined with wax paper. Should make fifty or sixty pieces. Add food coloring if desired. Page 274 Two Recipes for a Luncheon Ruth L. Jones Mo. Pep SHRIMP SALAD 1 pkg. Lemon gelatin 1 c. Shimp 1 c. Boiling water 3 chopped boiled eggs % ¢. Mayonnaise 2 minced green onions 1 small glass pimento cream cheese 1 tbsp. Minced green pepper "' c. Cream Dissolve gelatin in boiling water. Chill until syrupy. Add mixed mayonnaise and cheese. Whip cream lightly and fold in. Add remaining ingredients and stir all into gelatin mixture. Pour into oiled mold. Chill until firm and serve on cnisp lettuce. Serves eight. - Fruit Bars %" c. Sifted flour 1% c. Chopped walnuts Y% c, butter % tsp. Baking powder 2 eggs, beaten % tsp. Vanilla 1 c. Brown sugar 1 tsp. Grated lemon rind % c. Chopped dates 2 tbsp. Lemon juice (or % c. Coconut) % c. Powdered sugar Mix flour and butter as for pastry. Sprinkle in baking pan. Bake at 350° ten minutes. Beat eggs. Add brown sugar, dates, nuts, baking powder, vanilla. Spread over dry mixture. Bake 20 minutes more. Mix rind, juice, and powdered sugar. Spread over hot mixture. Cool. Cut into 16 squares. May be kept in refrigerator but not in freezer. No Half Loaf, This Virginia Newman Friendly were the words you said, (I'd like the recipe some day), Tendering the loaf of bread, Oven warm and savory; But let me ask you if I may, How much that gesture meant to me, How you acquired the finer art Almost a stranger, lonely too, Of nourishing the hungry heart? And gladdened by the sight of you. I never had the knack, somehow. I would repay you if I could. Oh, yes, the bread was extra good. (I'd like that recipe right now). Page 275 Recipes From a Pioneer Kitchen Anne McCall PICKLED RED CABBAGE 1 or more firm red cabbages, as: desired (shredded) vinegar to cover cabbage 2 tbsp. Black peppercorns (to each quart of vinegar) 2 tsp. Allspice (to each quart of vinegar.) salt Wash cabbage well. Put into earthenware vessel and sprinkle with salt. Cover and let stand two days. Add vinegar, black peppercorns, and allspice. Boil until well flavored. Cool and strain off remaining liquid. Place cabbage into wide-mouthed bottles and fill up with vinegar. Seal airtight. Leave for one month before using. APPLE CHUTNEY 10 large cooking apples (sliced) 1 tbsp. Mustard 5 large brown onions (sliced) 1 tbsp. Salt 3 c. Stoned raisins 1 tbsp. Pepper 2 Ibs. Brown sugar 1 tsp. Cayenne 3 pts. Vinegar _ Mix and boil well. Bottle, and seal. Leave for three months before using. In a Hard Place ||P us not laugh at the small, scrubby flower living precariously away from a flower garden. It has had to fight for its chance with weeds and drought. It may be small and gnarled, but it smiles brightly in a hard place. It is the hardy one, and it has seeds that may grow tall and strong and straight, bringing beauty down the generations. Such hardy ones among people were the pioneers, who came to the hard places and made them beautiful for us, their children. —Celia Luce Page 276 Note to Carvel Mabel Jones Gabbott There is nothing I can give Except a knowing of the way The loss of one, long loved, will live Quiet at times, until a day When some small memory, quick And sharp, yet very clear and near, Breaks through the numbing hurt to prick The blank, and loose a cleansing tear, Refreshing, after a time, all living With the beauty of that life, still giving. = The Little Silver Thimble Sherry Crookston ODAY I received in the mail a small package from my grandfather, together with this epistle: Dear Sherry: Inasmuch as you are the first and oldest of the grandchildren, I thought you et like this little memento of your grandmother. As I took it out of her workbasket and held it in my hand, I remembered so vividly the light in her eyes as she said, "Remember, dear, when you bought me this little thimble? I was struggling with the first baby dress I had ever made, and you watched me pricking my fingers as I pushed the too-large needle in and out of the dainty material. When I asked where you were going, as you put on your coat and hat, you said you would be back shortly. "In a few minutes you tossed a tiny square package in my lap. As my eager hands untied the mnbbon, you watched me with a smile. Something special, I was sure! Gift wrapped, with love. A beautiful silver thimble! How I loved it, and you. How I tried and tried to use it, how awkward I felt. You tried to show me, and we both laughed together." She soon mastered it, Sherry, as she did most of life's problems. When I recall the many beautiful pieces of handwork and lovely garments her love and skill fashioned throughout the years, as we sat together evenings and I read to her, or we discussed our plans and affairs of the day, my thoughts go out to you, and as you are planning to be married soon, may you and Bill be as happy, and may your lives be as full of the good things as ours were, is my wish for you. Lovingly, Grandfather The flood of love and memories this thoughtful little gift brings to me is something I will cherish as long as life lasts, and each time I look at it or touch it or use it, I will remember my gentle grandmother with her lovely crown of silvery white hair, and all the beauty her life portrayed. I know my life will be made richer because of one little silver thimble. Page 277 Housekeeper in a Hurry Janet W. Breeze STREAMLINE THAT HOUSECLEANING A cobbler's apron is the greatest thing ever invented, if used to its best advantage. These aprons may have three wonderful pockets which you would do well to label (1) Upstairs, (2) Downstairs, and (3) Trash, if you have a poor memory. This can be done by sewing twill tape or applying iron-on tape to the pocket and writing with an embroidery pen. As you pick little things up off the floor or off the tops of tables, drop them into the pocket for later delivery to their proper places. COBBLER'S APRON Page 278 A PLASTIC BUCKET FOR STORING CLEANING TOOLS A plastic bucket in the bathroom for keeping soap flakes, cleanser, brushes, sponges, etc., handy will save many steps out to the kitchen. By the way, have you ever tried using that long-handled brush for scrubbing the tub? Scrubbing the kitchen and bathroom floors can be done much more neatly and quickly if you VACUUM baseboards, corners, and other hard-to-sweep places first. Wear old cotton gloves when cleaning windows to get those corners sparkling bright. SENS AN ORES SSMS Anna Eckloff Makes Her Life Happy With Hobbies Aan Diceria Eckloff of Poulsbo, Washington, has found a theme to make her life happy and to enrich and beautify the lives of others — "Handwork for Happiness." She has made eighteen crocheted bedspreads, twelve tablecloths, many doilies, pillowslips, chair sets, embroidered tea towels, quilts, and fancy aprons. In her busy life there is no room for sadness — she has too much to do. Her exquisite work has won awards at fairs and exhibitions, and she has contributed many lovely items for Relief Society bazaars, where her work is greatly appreciated. "I have to hurry to get my handwork done," Sister Eckloff declares, "'for it is always needed, and I have made a practice of always having some extra articles on hand." She has sewed for needy families and has remodeled clothes for them and taught the mothers to sew. Mrs. Eckloft's four children, six grandchildren, and ten great-grandchildren all have received handmade gifts from her, and many of them have learned from her to be skillful in the handwork arts. She dearly loves Relief Society and is a faithful member. She was born in Sunswall, Sweden, and has been a member of the Church for ten ae — "wonderful years'' — she says, for she rejoices in the Church activities of her amily. > From My Window Evalyn Sandberg This moon-drenched night The sturdy oaks along our quiet lane Repeat themselves in patterned light Upon a darkened pane. Affirm to me, With whispered strength in solid presence here, That in the dark tranquility A loving God is near. Page 280 '- Keep Your End of the Handle Up Olive Sharp was an old saying of my Father, "Keep your end of the handle up. You are here, the same as I, and it is your duty to do your share to help keep this old world right side up." Father was very strict with us children, and he saw that we learned to work when young, and he would say, "Learn to work when you are young, and you will always like it, and if you will do that, many interesting things and worthwhile projects will come into your life so that, at times, you will wish you had two pairs of hands instead of one." The Lord has said that if we will work in his vineyard, he will bless us with a mighty blessing - Everyone who knows this promise should be glad to work in his vineyard. The Lord also said if we would pay one tenth of our income to the work of the Lord, the gates of heaven-would be opened and we would be showered with blessings. I wonder why so many people who know, or should know, do not keep these wonderful commandments. I feel sure they have not been taught them when young. "As the twig is bent, so the tree will grow," and no greater joy can come to a mother or father than to have their sons and daughters grow up to be fine, respected, honored, reliable men and women, doing their share to bring peace and happiness into: | this troubled world of ours. I happened to hear two young ladies, sisters they were, talking about paying tithing and wondering if they did pay tithing if their paths would be a bit smoother. Last spring I met one of them and asked her if paying tithing had helped her. She replied, "It certainly has. My husband received a raise in his salary and we have not had a doctor in our house for months. We think God did open his gates and shower us with his blessings." "How is your sister getting along?" I asked. "She can't get money enough ahead to pay tithing, so she is just plodding along," was the reply. Our children did not ask to come here, so when they do come it is our duty to give them good training for their future life. Our Best Is Needed Leona Fetzer Wintch ESE are times that require the best that is in us. We do not want to be "average," or "common," or ''mediocre." These terms suggest sluggishness and. Drifting, not the striving and achieving that are essential to keep us free. | Page 281 Don Knight DESIGN OF PALMS AND CLOUDS —>- - What Did You See? Maude Proctor HIS morning when you got out of bed and raised the blind, or when you gazed out of the window over the sink as you finished the breakfast dishes, what did you see? If you are the average housewife, with the cares of rearing a family on your mind, you will probably answer, "Oh, the same old yard." And if it happens to be summer, you might think with a sigh, John has Page 282 not cut the lawn yet, and Alan left his bike out again, and I must take care of the flower bed. Or, if it was winter, your thoughts may have run, also with a sigh, John will have to shovel the snow off those walks before school, and will Alan ever learn to put his bike away at night? And so into the day. Worry, worry. What you saw was a panorama of everyday living that immediately translated itself into work and re- WHAT DID YOU SEE? Sponsibility. 'That is good, but first let us try to see things that will lift the spirit and delight the soul. Then we can move into the duties of the day with pleasure and with courage., The eye must be helped to see the less obvious beauties of ordinary objects about us. 'The place to begin this learning process is in an art class, preferably one in oil painting. "Horrors," you exclaim, "I can't even draw a straight line!" Of course you can't. Very few people can. But, even if you never paint a picture that gets further than the trash can (but probably you will), the rewards are great. Have you ever noticed how many shades of green there are in the tree in the corner of your yard? Look carefully, and you will become conscious of more and more shades and colors. Now look at the shape or form, the pattern the tree makes against the sky. Now glance at the color of the sky. "Why, it is blue," you say. Look again. 'The sky, too, may be any number of colors and shades, and they vary in color with shapes that are a delight to watch as they change and form new patterns in a way that reminds us of music or a dance. Alan's bicycle is a mosaic of light 283 and shadow that makes us think of God's world in all its beautv and order, even if it also reminds us that one son left his belongings where he dropped them, and the other son forgot to cut the lawn. As we attend an art class we come to see afresh, with more perception, and, therefore, more pleasure, the loveliness of such ev eryday things as the color and form of baby's red ball lying against the gold pillow on the brown couch. 'The subtle nuances of color in the little dish Grandmother painted when she was a girl, and cherished so carefully along the trip across the plains, will bring a sudden gift of joy as we hurry through the day. Perhaps we sense these details now, but dimly. The discipline of trying to get them on paper or canvas, the coaching and training in really seeing color, form, and line will result in such a heightened awareness of the beauty around us that we will be thankful throughout our lives for the impulse that led us to join a class in painting. Then, when someone asks us "What did you see?" we can answer with uplifted heart that we saw the heavens declare the glory of God and the firmament show his handiwork. My Prayer Grant me the blessedness that I can comfort those in need. Let my heart sing songs of gratitude at the sundown of my days. My awakening. My songs will never cease. Sweet will be my sleep and joyful —Pauline M. Bell The Blossoming Dorothy J. Roberts I will answer you as buds now Swell and whiten in the park. Words, as these pale boughs, have waited In the stillness and the dark. Many winters I have known The mute of snow on heart and earth, But always spring came, glory-bright, Clothed in petals at its birth. Spring returns, ephemeral, Brief as moonlight in the air, A pearl-white pause the season holds Between the petal and the pear. Frail are the drifts along the fence, Triangled softly at the poles. Fragile the carpet on the lawn Under the weight of eager soles. Once where there was only silence, Words arise as buds from root. I will bring the sound of answer Before the blossom yields to fruit. Page 284 oA a +. Se TI * al vw GS pie Luoma Studios SPRINGTIME IN THE WEST VIRGINIA MOUNTAINS Page 285 Grade A" Mary C. Martineau RANDMOTHER found a theme in the wastebasket one morning, written and discarded by her grandson Joseph before he left for school. She read it, laughed merrily, and then put an "A" on it, saying to herself, "That boy is surely blessed with talent." Joseph was a kind boy who loved his grandmother very much and slept at her house every night because she was all alone and he felt sorry for her. He was her protector and her pride and joy, and she tried to be a guarantee for his success in school, waking him early, whether or no, and seeing to it that he had a bounteous breakfast, for what half-fed boy can do his best? However, on that morning when Joseph had arisen, it had not been with a song in his heart, for he had felt grumpy and he had dark thoughts. It seemed to him that no matter what, Grandmother always woke him up at 6:30. Rain or shine, she made no allowance, but prepared breakfast, urged him to hurry a little, and as a final push in the nght direction, saw him to the door and wished him a happy day. He thought on that morning, I wanted to sleep, regardless of that dumb old theme I was supposed to write last night. The night before he had gone to the basketball game after MIA and had had a great time, but in the morning, although the spirit was willing, the flesh was weak, and he hated to hear Grandmother bustling about in the kitchen. When she Page 286 finally spoke to him, with the urge for action in her voice, he arose, grabbed his pen and some theme paper and wrote the following: EARLY BIRDS | Dione you live with an early bird or are one yourself, you cannot know the agony that literally millions of people go through every blessed morning of the year. You see, I live with the most cheerful early bird in the Nation, my grandmother. In the summer her excuse is that the birds wake her up when they begin to chirp and sing. Frankly, Id take my chances with the law and get rid of those birds, but it would do no good, because she rises early in the winter, also. My full-fledged early bird sigs a little as she rattles the pans for a huge breakfast which she will force-feed into every individual she can. Maybe she plays a little on the piano, a little something sweet like "The Battle Hymn of the Republic," or something appropriate like '""he Caissons Go Rolling Along." At any rate, if you live with an early bird, you're stuck. Early birds come in assorted sizes, from the "just-hatched" to those with one wing dragging. Usually small children amid old people make the best early birds. 'The little tikes get up early so they can go and explore this wonderful new world, while the old folks want to get up early as possible to see as much as they can. But I see no excuse for otherwise reasonable adults—from teenage to fifty—getting up at the indecent hours that early birds call "the rosy light of morning." I think that modern medicine ought to invent something that either makes an eatly bird sleep in the morning or else invent something to protect others from them. GRADE "A" OSEPH had a glorious time writing the theme, _ believing every word of it as he wrote, and then went in to breakfast, gloating in his soul as he slipped it into his loose-leaf notebook. My, what a breakfast Grandmother had fixed for him. 'There was juice, cereal and cream, an omelet, and then toast and peaches. What a grandmother she was! He looked at her, smiling at him across the 287 all ready to go—especially with that theme written? Another "A" for me, he thought, and then Grandmother followed him to the door and said, "Happy day, Joseph." He stopped short; that was too much. What a heel I am, he thought. He ran back to his room, dumped the theme into the wastebasket, and then with "A happy day, Grandmother," he walked down the table. Wasn't it wonderful to find sidewalk singing, "Oh, what a himself bright and early and_ beautiful morning." Return Henrietta B. McNeely Wild geese crying in the night Through the darkness and the rain, Winging on their northward flight — On true course — to nest again. What sure beacon is their guide? Who leads, on the way they go, As unerringly they glide To the home they used to know? Would that I could be as sure Of my way through doubt and pain, In thy love to feel secure, Never to be lost again. Lord, if from true course I stray — In some dark hour fail to see — Let thy beacon show the way; Bring me safely home to thee. Potted Plants Complete a Picture Eva Willes Wangsgaard HEN the planting time rush is over, the workshelf and the garden house make an ideal area for caring for and displaying potted plants. 'The perennial favorite is the geranium. Geraniums offer a generous variety of color, florets, and even leaf form and fragrance. 'They may be purchased from abundant supplies of well-started slips, many already in bloom, in nurseries, florist's shops, supermarkets, and in many department stores. Or you can start slips yourself, if you have a room where plants can get plenty of light. Another favorable trait of geraniums is their tolerance for shade. It is amazing how well they will bloom if given light, fertile soil, at least monthly feedings of fish emulsion, and good circulation of air. Fuchsias, fibrous-rooted begonias, and tuberous begonias make good potted subjects, but must be chosen according to the conditions of sunlight and shade an area offers. Borders help tie a garage or workshop into a garden. Fibrous-rooted begonias offer a wide variety of kinds and colors, differing chiefly in heaviness of leaf, stalk, and blossoms. The B. Semperflorens is the favorite variety. In choosing a border a more striking effect is secured by choosing plants of the same variety and color. Some fibrous-rooted begonias have red-tinted leaves. Others are a rich, almost translucent green. Some blooms are deeply red, and they range from there down through luscious pinks to flesh pink and pure Page 288 white. A border of green-leafed begonias with a wealth of deep pink blossoms brings more enthusiastic compliments in a garden than your most exquisite tuberous begonia blooms. 'They are sold in flats or in individual pots, but either way, they are very tiny when set out around Mother's Day in the Intermountain Area, or whenever danger from frost is past. 'They should not be placed closer than twelve inches, however, because at late July or early August they have grown into beauteous mounds of generous blooms, making a compact border. They bloom constantly, from an inch-high start till the snow covers them or the frost nips them. Fibrous-rooted begonias are shade loving and thrive best with only morning sun or filtered sunlight. The begonias in the border in the picture would have been happier and would have made a better showing had they been planted in a raised border. 'The easiest way to keep a raised border raised is to enclose it. If you are handy at masonry or can afford to hire a mason, a stone enclosure is beautiful and most permanent. But 2" x 8" redwood slabs are inexpensive, readily available, light to handle, and easy to nail. 'They hold up very well, too. I order mine cut to fit the needed length and mitred to fit at the corners. 'Then they are easily pushed into position and secured with finishing nails. It is wise to give them two coats of redwood three-in-one finish before using them. The filling soil should be POTTED PLANTS COMPLETE A PICTURE Don Knight 289 SUMMERHOUSE WITH VINES AND POTTED PLANTS made light with humus and sand. If barnyard humus is used, however, it is necessary to water it down thoroughly at least three times before planting, in order to wash away excess nutrients which might burn the tender roots. The soil proportion which I find brings excellent results is one-half black loam, onefourth sand, and one-fourth humus. WO advantages of the raised garden or border are: first, the roots have plenty of room and no robbing or interference from spreading roots of trees and shrubs; second, the plants get a freer circulation of air. An extensive expanse of wall in a garden is cooler and more pleasing to the eye if it is broken by vines. The trumpet vine, with its bunched amber-colored trumpets and pinnate leaves is a beauty in bloom and has the lovely habit of luring hummingbirds to enrich the garden's enticements. It has strong, spreading, tenacious roots, however, which are capable of sending up suckers as far away as twenty feet from the parent vine. The lace vine is another prolific spreader, but its large, shapely leaves and lacy racemes of white flowers are a gracious sight. The clematis is slower growing, usually, but comes in such a variety of colors and types and sends out such a generous supply of blooms that one vine makes a breathtaking coverage and a glorious background 290 for regal and Madonna lilies, as well as other garden beds. Some varieties are Ramona (Alice blue), Cnmson King (deep red), Ernest Markham (red), Duchess of Edinburgh (double white), Henryi (single white), and Jackmani (purple). These flowers are two to three inches in diameter and range from four petals to seven. 'The four-petal flowers resemble dogwood blossoms. All clematis vines need netting or framework on which to climb. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 The ever-lovely wisteria is slow growing, but a wonderfully satisfying wall and arbor coverage, with its generous pinnate leaves and grapelike bunches of lavender to purple flowers. Leafy vines, like the vetch ivy, give a tropical greenness and lushness, yet cooling effect, all in green glossy leaves. It is an excellent background for lush blooms such as the tuberous begonias. Prelude to Easter Linda Clarke The first is one of season, when icy winds Chill the air, driving the last, lone leaf down, Leaving the tree stark, black against gray skies, Bringing the silent, silvery snow to muffled sound, Hushing protest from bird in nest and voice in lair. But season follows season and inevitably comes May. The second winter, more terrible for its subtlety, Is found within the breast of man. Cool breath His Brings more desolation than January's fiercest gale, For winter of the soul breeds like from like, Generation after generation, till one breaks winter's chain And finding spring, touches finger tips with kin. The Loving Faces Betty Lou Martin way down the rain-soaked streets as if not quite certain which direction to take. 'The woman behind the wheel appeared to be uneasy, and a frown marred the almost Dresden quality of her face. "You look too young to be a grandmother," Mona _ Sanders' friends had told her when Mona's only child, Nina, had had her first baby. Mona had felt a little ancient at the time, too, but now, after being a grandmother three times over, she had become quite accustomed to the feeling. She was indeed a beautiful woman with her pearl-like complexion and ice-blue eyes enhanced by her now silver-gray hair. Mona worked to keep herself that way by constant diet and care. She always dressed simply and was very careful to choose the colors that she knew did the most for her. Before Nina had become a mother, Mona had always been attending meetings and keeping up to date as well on civic affairs. However, becoming a grandmother had changed things considerably. At this time Mona felt more like an unpaid baby sitter. The car continued on down the streets of Oaktown flanked on both sides by large, well-kept homes. Mona sighed. "I only wish that Nina could afford to live in the same neighborhood as we do, and afford a baby sitter also." Oaktown was a fairly large town snuggled up close to the mountains Ts shiny, blue car made its as if trying to seek protection from the elements. It was a lovely place with wide streets and big parks. The townsfolk took great pride in keeping it neat and free from debris. Fven the children were taught to help in the care of the town. The part of Oaktown that was considered to be least attractive appeared better than the average section of many other towns. Mona Sanders had lived in Oaktown all her life. There isn't a better, fresher smell on earth than after a rainstorm, Mona thought, as she turned the car onto the main road that led into the shopping section. Once again Mona felt uneasy and now slightly guilty at the thought of what she had done, but she just couldn't take it any more. Ever since Nina had had her children, she had been bringing them to Mona to tend. Sometimes it would be as often as four and five times a week. FvVERY Wednesday Nina had the habit of calling Mona to tell her that she was bringing the children over while she went into town Shopping. Her excursions would usually last all day. On this particular Wednesday, Mona had _ hurriedly dressed and left the house before Nina had an opportunity to call. "Just once I am going to have a little time to myself. After all, I deserve it; I've reared my family." Mona swung the car into the lane Page 291 292 leading to the parking terrace of one of the larger department stores. She wandered through the stores looking at the new fashions for spring, but the more she looked, the more guilty she felt. "I'm a fine grandmother, trying to get away from my own little grandchildren. What in the world would Nina say if she knew how I felt? I should be ashamed of myself, but I stayed home and tended Nina. I don't see why she can't stay home and tend her own children," Mona had once said, somewhat bitterly of Chis. No matter how aggravated she became, Mona could not bring herself to say anything to Nina. Nina's husband, Ned, did not make a great deal of money, and it was difficult for them to meet their needs. It was especially difficult for Nina. She had always had everything she wanted when she was younger. Now she was forced to budget her money, and she just couldn't seem to manage. Ned seemed to feel that he was letting Nina down by not being able to afford a new home and new clothes for her. Mona often thought, what Ned needs to do is to be more strict with that girl. Mona knew very well, however, that she and Chris were to blame for the way that Nina acted. If they had taught her how to share and be a little more self-sacrificing when she was younger, things might have been different today. "Why Mona Sanders, I haven't seen you for ages," a voice called to Mona. "Lillian, my goodness, how nice to see you. How long has it been?" Mona was pleased to see her longtime friend. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 "Ever since you became a grandmother — the first time." Lillian laughed. "Oh, now, Lillian, it isn't quite that bad," Mona answered. "Well, it just about is," Lillian offered. "You know, I have grandchildren of my own, but their parents know that I have my own life to lead. I love the children very much, and, of course, I like to see them, but they are their parents' responsibility, and I simply refuse to take over their obligations while they run to every social function they can think of." Lillian was noted for being able to express herself in a frank and open manner. "My, but you do sound hard, Lillian." Mona tried not to show the effect that Lillian's words had upon her. On her way home from town Mona resolved to have a talk with Nina as soon as possible. She realized now that she hadn't actually been doing Nina a favor by taking the children every time that she wanted to go somewhere. She only hoped that this time she would be able to go through with it. Many times before when she had attempted to say something to Nina, she would see the children's loving faces peering up at her, and she just didn't have the heart to hurt them. She knew now that she had been doing Nina more harm than good. Her daughter would just have to learn to face her responsibilities as other young married people had to do. ONA had just entered the house and hung her coat in the hall closet when the telephone Tang. "Hi, Mom, where have you been THE LOVING FACES all day? I have been trying to reach you." Nina sounded annoyed. "Ann and I were going to town and have lunch today. I told her that you always take the children for me, but we ended up staying home." Mona ignored Nina's pointed statement. "Nina, Id like to talk to you. Are you coming over after while?" Mona made her voice sound more stern than usual. "Yes, I'd planned to. I thought I''d see if Ned would take me to a movie tonight. Honestly, Jimmy has been driving me out of my mind today. I've just got to get out of the house." Nina paused for a moment. "I guess that we can drive over, and you can tell me what you want to, and then we can leave the children with you and Dad." ONA felt the anger mounting inside her until her face became visibly red; however, she kept her composure. "Nina, did it occur to you that your father and I might have some plans for this evening? When you come over, don't plan on leaving the children with us." "Well — all right."" Nina seemed Shocked at her mother's remarks. "Til see you later." Mona turned from the telephone and started toward the kitchen. "How parents can make so many mistakes unintentionally with their children I'll never know. I've tried so hard. I thought that I was helping Nina, and instead of that, I have been making her into a selfcentered individual." Chris smiled when Mona told him of her conversation with Nina. "Believe me, Chris, I'd do things a lot differently if I had them to do over again,' Mona said sincerely. 293 When Nina and Ned arrived that evening with their family, it appeared that Nina had been crying. Mona felt a twinge of pity when she saw Nina's lovely, tear-streaked face. Ned seemed to be more quiet than usual, and when he spoke, he directed his words to Mona and Chris. He completely ignored Nina. Later on when Chris and Ned were talking business, Mona motioned Nina into the living room. "Nina, I want to talk to you about the children. Dear, it's not that your father and I don't love them very deeply, but I feel that you should spend more time with them than you do." Mona had made a beginning. "Now don't you start in on me, too, Mother. T've had just about all that I can take for one day. First Ned, then you, and Jimmy's been mischievous all day long. No one cares about me." 'The tears were already flowing freely down Nina's cheeks. Mona felt herself slipping back into the role of the consoling mother, but she squared her shoulders and looked sternly at her daughter. "Now, just a minute, dear. Many were the days when you were little that I'd have liked to have picked you up and sent vou to one of your grandmothers, but I didn't do it. I accepted my responsibility and obligations, just as you are going to do from now on. I realize that you have to have some outside interests. But you cannot do justice to your children and all your other affairs at the same time. I'm at the age now where I want to take the time to enjoy my Church and civic work, instead of hurrying through 294 it. Right now I hardly go anywhere. If you want to bring the children over, occasionally, when your father and [I haven't anything planned, then we'd love to have them." Mona felt relieved as she stopped talking. INA seemed stunned at her mother's words. "Well, I never thought that I'd ever hear you speak to me that way; you of all people, Mother." Nina got up quickly. "You can tell Ned that I and the children are waiting for him in the car." Nina gathered the children together, put their wraps on them, and left. "Now, what's wrong with Nina?" Ned called. "Oh, she's just a little annoyed at her mother, Ned. I think that she will get over it in a few days." Mona winked at Ned. "Well, at the moment I believe that she is just a little aggravated at her husband, too." Ned winked back. Mona did not hear from Nina all during the following week. Several times she almost relented and telephoned her, for she and Chris were lonesome and wanted to see the children, but Mona stopped herself in time, knowing full well that she must not give in. Then one day the telephone rang, and Mona heard the somewhat reluctant voice on the other end. "Hi, Mom, how have you been?" "Nina, well just fine, dear. How RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 have you and your family been?" It was such a joy to hear the familiar voice again. "Oh, Ned and I have been just fine, Mom." Nina seemed to relax as she added, "The children are just fine, too." "I'm glad to hear it, dear." Mona tried to keep her voice at an even level. "We've missed all of you." "We've missed you, too. The children are pestering me to bring them over. If you and Dad are going to be home this evening, we'd like to stop in and see you for a while?" Nina questioned. Mona couldn't help smiling. "Yes, as a matter of fact, we are going to be home this evening. We'd love to have you stop by." "If you're certain that we're not interrupting anything, then we'll see you later." Nina hung up. Mona couldn't help feeling elated at the thought of seeing her grandchildren once again. It had been difficult not to give in to Nira, but now that was all behind them. At last they could start enjoying each other as they should, and with the relationship that grandparents should have with their grandchildren. Happily, Mona began planning what her grandchildren would like for a snack while they were visiting, and happily she anticipated the joyful laughter of the children ringing throughout the house. How good it would be to see their loving faces once again! ie > 31" 25 > ~Around Figure 1 Figure 2 Figure 3 Beach or Knitting Bag (Made from an ice-cream carton) Melba Larson Materials needed: One 3-gallon ice-cream carton One piece print, polka dot, or striped material 12 inches wide and 31 inches long (for the lower part of the bag) A circle of the print material g 2 inches in diameter for bottom of carton One piece, striped, plain, or contrasting material 12 inches wide and 31 inches long (for the bag) Two pieces of contrasting material 25" long and 2%" wide (for handles) Thirty-one inches of inch-wide belting Sew the strip of printed material to the strip of plain or contrasting material (Figure 1). Make a one-inch hem at the top of the plain or contrasting material. Thread in the belting and stitch securely. Make the handles double, 2' inches wide and 25 inches long, one side plain and the other side printed. Sew the handles securely 5% inches from the bottom. Slip in the ice-cream carton, twist (Figure 2), and bring the belted edge over the outside of the carton as a lid (Figure 3). Page 295 Sow the Field With Roses CHAPTER 4 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Nina Karsh lives in a small house in the Malibu Mountains of California. The house is owned by Tomas Novarro, a sad and morose man of great wealth, who brings his withdrawn and motherless son Joseph and asks Nina to take care of him. Nina agrees to look after the boy temporarily. She is visited by Tommy Benedict, a young boy from an unhappy home, on the beach. Nina tries to help him into a better life adjustment. Dr. Craig Jonathan comes to check up on Joseph's health. Later, Nina goes to the Novarro home to find out all she can about Joseph's background and the origin of the boy's problems. Desert. At the beach it was a fierce 110 degrees. Doctor Jonathan drove up carefully between the perilously dry eucalyptus trees and the equally perilous oak. The whole canyon could go up by spontaneous combustion. He looked up to the hills where the bright houses leaned into the sky. People were idiotic to build here and more idiotic to stay. It had been three weeks since he had seen Joseph Novarro. Doctor Jonathan felt guilty about this, especially since 'Tomas made a point of calling him every Sunday evening to find out how the boy was doing. Craig had relayed the telephone conversations he had had with Nina. Not that she told him much. He had the feeling about Nina of an impish holding back, that all sorts of exciting things were happening at the hilltop house. Women! Doctor Jonathan wiped his forehead Page 296 Te wind blew hot from the with a large, immaculate handkerchief and took off his glasses. Women! Especially women who reminded him of Edith, and Nina Karsh reminded him very much of that lost and early love. Recklessly, he nosed the car through the dusty bouldered road and found the parking place beside the garage. He climbed out and looked toward the house. Oasis. Sprinklers were sending geysers of coolness over the trees and lawns. The smell of wet earth and brush was exquisitely fragrant. Again, he thought of Edith. Edith had been cool and fragrant. Edith had been laughter and all promise and all a man could ask of beauty. She had lacked only one thing — love. Hearing from this one and that about Edith's rise from wealth to wealth had given him to know that she would never have been happy as the wife of a community doctor. Still he grieved for her, thought of her, and let the empty years pass and the emptier years come, making no effort to change or fill them except with his work. He had grown so accustomed to his nothingness that he felt anger with Nina Karsh for reminding him of it. She was another one, swept on the banks of the mysterious river, while the great and the proud and the loved ones rode its crest. He made his way through the gate, turned at the sound of voices. They were in the garden, Nina SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES Karsh and the boy. Nina was wearing a blue smock. She was standing beside her easel, palette and brush in her hands. But it was the sight of Joseph that brought Doctor Jonathan to an absolute halt. He took out his glasses and _ settled them and stared again. Joseph was playing, actually, playing in the sand as any normal child. He was filling the tin bucket painstakingly with the toy shovel and then in the immemorial way of small boys, pouring the sand over himself and laughing at his cleverness. Doctor Jonathan blinked. The sound of Joseph's laughter was not quite believable. E must have made an exclamation. Nina and the child both turned and looked at him, the laughter like light on their faces. It faded. Nina's became decorous. Doctor Jonathan walked crisply down the path to them. "I see you have made a slight progress, young man." How cold and dry he sounded. He hadn't meant the tone. He reached for Joseph, and the child screamed and flung himself on Nina, clinging to her neck. Nina flashed Doctor Jonathan an apologetic smile. "It's a phase," she said, "he'll get over it. He's afraid I'll go away from him." Doctor Jonathan asked humbly, "How did you do it?" She rocked Joseph and_ kissed him, murmuring small assurements. "I felt Joseph might have lost an age in his life."" Seeing Craig's blank stare, she quickened her voice, trying to explain. "I knew a man who had to go to work very young. He lost his boyhood, then later on 27 he did very foolish things, or what seemed foolish to others, but he was trying to find what he had lost. I'm afraid I am expressing myself badly, but I feel that Joseph has lost his babyhood. Everyone wanted him to be terribly grown-up and wonderful very fast, and he missed the beginning part of life and, having lost the assurance that comes with being babied, he didn't have the courage to go on and be the next stage." Her voice trailed off. She looked guilty. "I could be terrible wrong, but I just took Joseph back to his babyhood and let him start all over again." She looked at him questioningly. It was one of those odd tangents people got off on. He didn't know whether it was a profound discovery or not. He only knew, looking at Joseph, that the child was well on the highroad to recovery. Doctor Jonathan sighed. He hated to feel frustrated, and Nina Karsh was forever doing this to him, unsetting him, sending his mind down channels he had no wish to explore. She said, "His silence and immobility were the sands he tried to hide in... You know, like the ostrich. Joseph pretended we didn't exist, that way we couldn't bewilder or hurt him." "He hasn't tried to hide from you?" She lifted her shoulders. "After awhile he knew it wasn't necessary. I did not ask him for anything. I only gave " She walked toward the house, making comments as she moved, and Doctor Jonathan walked behind her, measuring with a professional 298 eye the weight and height of Joseph, his clearer color and, above all, the fierce and open attachment he felt for Miss Karsh. Once in the house, Nina left them alone, and Craig was able to coax Joseph away from Nina _ long enough to give the examination which told him what he already knew — that the boy was forging ahead in every way. OCTOR Jonathan sighed and sank down in the big wing chair. He watched Joseph turn the pages of a picture book and call out proudly the names of the animals. Craig was tired and thirsty and puzzled. What had brought it about? Had Joseph been ready for the transition, and had Miss Karsh been there at the psychological moment? Or was it the mysterious healing influence that some women have, that power within themselves to enter a discordant household and put it to rights? Doctor Jonathan had known some nurses who possessed it to a remarkable degree. They could listen with the proper cluckings of sympathy to a tortured nerve-ridden patient and give him peace. Nina Karsh had it. He found himself wondering if women in the beginning before the swift strides of modern science, had _ possessed it even more richly. Perhaps women had surrendered more than they knew in these days of nursing homes and institutions. Nina brought in a tray of cookies and lemonade. "It's so hot," she said, "and it's such a long drive back." Doctor Jonathan drank the lemonade gratefully. It pleased her to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 serve him, her face grew bright and young. Looking at her, he realized how much she occupied his thoughts. He put down the glass abruptly, disturbed by the realization. "You were doing some painting when I came, Miss Karsh. I interrupted." She poured more lemonade for Joseph. "It was a child's portrait." "Could I see it?" "Of course." She rose at once. He walked beside her down the path. She came just to his shoulder. When he looked down, he saw that her hair was darker in the center but lightened towards the ends from long hours in the sun. There was fragrance all around them, whether of the flowers or of her, he did not know, but it confused him, the fragrance, and when his arm brushed against hers, he drew back and became stern with himself. The painting troubled him. It was of Joseph, and yet it was not. The child in the painting had great, over-brilliant eyes, wide, strained, and haggard. 'The face was pinched, as if from hunger, yet the child was carefully dressed in a white silk shirt and white linen shorts. He held a cat in his arms, Siamese, sleek and expensive. In the background were the muted gray ruins of a bridge. Nina stood with her head down, not looking at the painting, but touching the brushes to the paint daubs on the palette. "The eyes," he said at length, not wishing to hurt her, and yet angry with her for making it necessary. "Yes? You don't care for the eyes?" SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES "Definitely not." "T don't either," she said. "But the rest is excellent. It would take only a little effort..." he broke off. She said, "You think I would be better off copying one of Reubens' children, or Romney's, perhaps?" What was she trying to tell him? He said irritably, "Who would want to have those eyes following him about?" He pointed to the canvas. "Not I," she said gently, "they accuse me." "Accuse you?" "I am tormented," she said, "by the children of our time, by the eyes of children. 'They are stuffed with murders for pacifiers, and violence for playthings, and drunkenness for amusement. 'They cry out to me, the children, for bread." "Nonsense," he said heartily, glad to be on familiar ground. "Our children are the best fed in the world." "The bread of sunsets," she said, "and mountain mornings and walks in the Sunday parks." He was silent, looking down into her eyes. Her words made a desolate beauty against his ears, like a violinist playing to a deserted house. He said, uncomfortably, "Oh, I agree that youngsters nowadays get a little too much of television and movies and things, but, on the whole, they are a lucky lot." He was suddenly impatient. "After all, they have to live in the world. 'They might as well get to know what it's made of." HE dipped the brush in black and deepened the lines around the child's eyes. "Then, if we insist upon feeding them with these bitter 299 breads, we have no right to complain about the size of their eyes, have we, or the shapes of their souls?"" She looked past him to the sweep of the valleys below. "What is the heaviness about our necks these days, Doctor Jonathan, is it the millstones we wear?" "We are much kinder to children than in former times. I can remember my father telling me about the whalings his father gave him." "Did he hate him for it?" "Hate him? Certainly not. Grandfather Jonathan was a terrific old gentleman. When I was a child, I had the sneaking feeling that he was of the same cloth as Moses or Abraham, one of the old prophets." She put the brushes away and hung a cloth over the painting. "A child need not fear a Moses or an Abraham. A child has great need to fear us who give him, day by day, the glittering corruption." She moved back to the house. "Have you heard from 'Tomas Novarro?" "Yes. Iam to call him tonight." "And what will you tell him?" She walked beside him. "IT will tell him that his son is well, and that he can come and take him now." Better to make the operation quick and final. But he turned away from the whiteness that ran raggedly into her cheeks and the strickened narrowing of her eyes. "You knew this was a temporary thing." "Yes." Her voice was scarcely audible. "But it is so soon. Somehow, I did not think it would be so soon." "You have opened the door," he 300 said bruskly, "but Tomas Novarro has the right to enter the room." He turned in the direction of his car. "I will let you know what he Says." But he did not call Tomas until the next day. Then swiftly, savagely, he put in the call for Quebec and waited. 'Tomas called back at once. "Yes? The boy? He is well?" "He is very well," said Doctor Jonathan heavily. "The woman has done the impossible. You owe her a great deal." "Yes, yes, of course." 'Tomas was impatient and jubilant. "I will retur at once. He is completely well?" "No, but he is responding as a normally sick and frustrated child, not like a zombie. It will take time, much more time. But it would be wise if you came and siphoned off his affections, or he will never be able to leave Miss Karsh." "T will take him away at once." "T wouldn't, Tomas. It would be too much for the boy to take. He's found a bridge back to people, but you've got to be sure he is all the way over the bridge before you burn it." "Of course of course." 'Tomas was shaken with joy. "I will do anything you say, anything, and of course, I will pay her well. You need not fear about that. Don't worry about Miss Karsh for a minute." Doctor Craig Jonathan hung up the telephone and sat back. Worry about Miss Karsh? Why should he? She was definitely "way out," all that talk about children, and the painting. He rubbed his eyes. The painting haunted him, the memory RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 of the child in the portrait, with the glazed, distended eyes. It seemed that he saw those eyes in every child he met. Doctor Jonathan sighed and picked up his hat and _ bag. Haunted eyes, hungry eyes, eyes that searched — for what? He answered himself. 'They hunted for the stuff that Nina Karsh possessed in such rich abundance, the pure and flowing love, that asked nothing for itsself, that gave and was replenished from the deep and secret springs of her being. Dr. Jonathan plunged for the door. He had better get Nina Karsh off his mind, or he wouldn't know whether he was looking at a case of measles or hives. N the late afternoon Tom Benedict climbed the hill. Nina, running to answer his whistle, saw traces of tears on the boy's dusty cheeks. She put her hands behind her back. One does not offer comfort to a boy almost thirteen. "Hot today." She pushed back her hair with her forearm. "Yeah, sure is." He slumped down in the wicker chair on the patio. Nina chose the rocker. They sat in silence. Nina fanned herself with the pages of a magazine. "Tt sure is an empty sort of day." He looked about. "Where's Joseph?" "Sleeping." She studied Tom. "T was just about to have some lemon- | ade." He brightened a little. "Can I help you fix it?" On an impulse she sank down again into the rocker. "Would you mind fixing it? After all, you know this house as well as I do." SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES He was off like a shot. She heard him whistling in the kitchen. After more long moments, he returned in triumph with her best silver tray in his brown hands. The silver pitcher tinkled with ice, and the cookies were arranged in mathematical splendor. "Tom! Honestly! Nobody else knows how to do things so special." His sigh cleansed him of grief. He drank in great noisy gulps and stuffed himself with cookies. "They left dinner for me," he explained, "but I wasn't hungry." "Your mother's gone away?" "Yeah, she and my brother Frisco, for the day. They said I was big enough to stay alone... And I sure am. I'm sure big enough. I get along fine." Nina leaned back in the rocker. What was the old saw about it takes a thief to catch a thief, and it takes a person who has eaten, drunk, and lived with loneliness to know it at a glance. Nina shivered. His pain pierced her like a thousand separate thorns. She saw the specter of loneliness come out of the shadows to stand over them, the discarded boy, the forgotten woman. He said, "Heard any more good stories about David lately?" "David?" "The one with the slingshot." She sat up straight. "Tom, would you do mea big favor?" "Sure, anything." "Come along to church with me tonight, and help me with Joseph. He's getting to be such a handful." Tom's face fell. "Well I had sort of planned." "We could go to a drive-in afterward for hamburgers and malts." "Great... When do we leave?" 301 OM Benedict was puzzled but polite during the evening. "Never been to one of these before," he confided. He found the pages for her in the songbook, and he sat quietly during prayers, but he was plainly relieved when the services were over. Nina tried to hide her disappointment. She had hoped for what? A miracle? Yes, she said stoutly to herself. That's exactly what I hoped for, a miracle for Tom. "That's why I brought him to you, Lord," and then, afraid that she had been murmuring, she hastily added, "but of course you know best." She followed Tom to the car. "How did you like it?" "Tt was just fine, Miss Karsh." "Mamma Nina, Mamma Nina," murmured Joseph, clinging to her hand. "He heard the boy next to him call his mother 'Mamma,' he's trying it out on you," Tommy explained. Don Jonas, in the act of backing out his car, halted when he saw them. "How are you tonight, Miss Karsh?" "Just fine," said Nina quickly. She was in no mood to be asked to donate four dozen cookies for a Scout cookout. Don Jonas cocked an enquiring eye on Tom. "Haven't seen you at Scout meeting." He grinned. "Better come." "No. Thanks," said Tom with finality. "You'd still be in time for the surfboards." Tom froze like a setter. "Surfboards?" "We're making them," Don Jonas said. "Most of the fellows 302 have started. I'd take time out to get you going, though." "A surfboard of my own. I'd be right in with the big boys." Tommy peered at Don Jonas. "You're not kidding?" "Tl pick you up tomorrow at six right in front of the Malibu Hardware. Okay?" "Okay." They drove in silence along the coast highway. 'The evening was just darkening. 'The moon came up like a giant orange ball and made a glistening road upon the sea. Tom sighed and turned to her. "That was one lucky day for me, Miss Karsh... That day I went to see old Dominick." "For me, too," she assured him, "and I guess Dominick wouldn't RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 the funniest thing, but when I climbed that hill up to your house I just felt real awful, like the end of the world or something, and >? Now He sat back in astonishment. "I feel just like licking tigers." But Nina, turning the sharp curves to the hilltop house, did not feel like licking tigers. She looked at Joseph, sleeping against her side, warm and heavy. The thought of losing him moved chill into her mind. "I can't!" she whispered. "I can't go through it again... Losing the people I love... And not Joseph. I can't lose Joseph." He turned restlessly, awoke. "Mamma Nina!" He was frightened. Nina soothed him from the troubled dream. "It's all right, Jolose you for anything in the world." seph. I am here Iam here." He settled back. "You know, it's (To be continued ) > My Legacy Maude Rubin She left this needle-case, these bits and pieces Of silks and colored woolens; half a quilt. She'd made one for the others, all the nieces And granddaughters but me... Yet how the lilt Of her creaking rocking chair sings in my ears! I watched her sew through summer's amber hours, Through winter's long still evenings; no swift fears Hinted that she might leave me. Now the flowers In her window pot still bloom, their fragrance mine; Though this quilt is still undone, my legacy Is a memory of color, bright design, And this open Book she used to read to me. It was so I learned of love, of peace, of duty Which covered her years with their quilt of shining beauty. FROM THE FIELD |~ General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "'Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relicf Society Handbook of Instructions, RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Soca Photograph submitted by Lanore S. Bowen GRAND COULEE STAKE (WASHINGTON) RELIEF SOCIETY WINS BLUE RIBBON WITH GIFT QUILT Seated, left to right: LaVera Bone, released Secretary-Treasurer, Mae Ostler, Second Counselor; Lanore S. Bowen, President; Lila Gunnell, First Counselor; Elaine Sweeny, recently appointed Secretary-Treasurer. Standing, left to right: Mable Roylance, visiting teacher message leader; Amy Kent, Magazine representative; Lorna Wiser, organist; Cora Jean Anderson, chorister; 'Thelma Anderson, literature class leader; Maxine Read, social science class leader; LaVelle Ashby, theology class leader; Fern Zirker, work meeting leader. Lanore S. Bowen, President, Grand Coulee Stake Relief Society, reports: "This beautiful satin quilt was made to be presented to President Belle S. Spafford as a birthday gift at the Annual General Relief Society Conference. Members of the stake Relief Society board had an old-fashioned 'quilting bee' at the home of Sister Bowen. 'Twelve hours of stitching later, the quilt was finished and won a blue ribbon at the County Fair. The quilt was designed by Fern Tolley of the Moses Lake Ward (not present when the picture was taken), with the Relief Society emblem centering it. Much love went into each stitch in the quilt." Page 303 304 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 Photograph submitted by Lois W. Ohsiek HONOLULU STAKE (HAWAII) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, May 10, 1961 Front row, center, President Joseph Fielding Smith of the Council of the Twelve; at President Smith's left, Sister Smith, and continuing from Sister Smith's left, left to right: Lois W. Ohsiek, President, Honolulu Stake Relief Society; Thelma Field, Work Director Counselor; Marian Nibley, Secretary-Treasurer; Christie Robertson, chorister; Miriam Lieu, organist. Sister Ohsiek reports that one hundred Singing Mothers presented the music for stake conference held May 10, 1961. They have been asked by their stake president to present the music at the same time each year for stake quarterly conference. Mf ES Photograph submitted by Marvel M. Young BEN LOMOND STAKE (OGDEN, UTAH) PRESENTS PROGRAM "WORLD MESSENGERS OF LOVE AND SERVICE" AT VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION, May 6, 1961 Front row, left to nght: Hilda Hinchcliffe and Kathleen Hall. Second row, left to right: Lani Lawrence and her mother Joyce Lawrence; Kim Barker; Judy Grant; First Counselor Doris Berrett; President Marvel M. Young; Second Counselor Eunice Hadley; Christina Van Hulten; Fay Brandenburg; Penny Welling; Bonnie Warnick. Third row, left to right: Astrid Vangsness; Mary Ann Hansen; Karen Woodburn; Renee Erickson; Ingeborg Hebel Adams; Josephine Gomez (half hidden); Mania Nava; Margaret Boiteaux. "This inspirational convention," Sister Young reports, "depicted the worth of the visiting teacher throughout the world, and the sweet spirit she brings into the homes of the Latter-day Saints. Our narrator was Laurine Roberts of the stake board. The NOTES FROM THE FIELD 305 women pictured, for the most part, are authentic representatives of their native land, and they wore authentic costumes. 'The music, which was rendered by a double trio seemed to bring all parts of the world together as one, in love and unity. They sang 'No Man Is an Island' and 'One World.' Eight women, each from a different country, in deep humility, touched each heart with their testimonies. The stories of their conversions in their native countries, and their love for Relief Society, brought tears to our eyes as we realized that we are all children of our Heavenly Father, no matter what the nationality, and the gospel makes us one. Refreshments were served by the stake board from a table beautifully decorated with little figurines from all countries, and their flags, surrounding a large world. It was a wonderful afternoon for the visiting teachers of Ben Lomond Stake." ed by Nelda Willis GARFIELD STAKE (UTAH), ESCALANTE NORTH AND SOUTH WARD SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR MANY OCCASIONS Photograph submitt Standing at the right: Thelma Cottam, chorister. Seated at the piano: Arcola Gates, organist. Front row, seated, left to right: Geneal Shurtz; Betty Alvey; Rula Spencer; Alberta Liston; Eva Spencer; Roselba Griffin; Thais Griffin. Second row, seated, left to right: Loretta Shurtz; Reva Bailey; Janet Spencer; Ada Porter; LaF aye Bailey; Dawn Griffin; Fawn Mecham; Louise Liston. Third row, standing, left to right: Hilda Roundy; LaRue Griffin; Veda Mitchell; Verda Liston; Ruth Griffin; Yukon Norman; Marlene Haws. Nelda Willis, President, Garfield Stake Relief Society, reports: ""This group is much in demand in our area for presenting the music at funerals, PTA meetings, quarterly stake conferences, and Relief Society conventions. During the past year they presented the singing in the quarterly conferences held in Escalante, thirteen funerals, two numbers at our stake Relief Society convention, two numbers for our stake Christmas gift suggestions party, two numbers at a district PTA meeting, two numbers at an area soil conservation meeting, and for many other occasions. On April 29, 1961, by special request, they sang two numbers at the assembly in the St. George Temple. We are very proud of these sisters and really appreciate their beautiful singing." 306 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 acai Me Photograph submitted by Rowena J. Warr CASSIA STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION AND FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE Seated back of the organ, at the left, left to nght: Raola Crane, conductor; Dorothy Whiteley, organist. Rowena J. Warr, President, Cassia Stake Relief Society, stands at the left in the back row (wearing dark dress). Sister Warr reports: "All of the wards in the stake have Singing Mothers choruses." Photograph submitted by Vera B. Tibbitts YELLOWSTONE STAKE (IDAHO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR RELIEF SOCIETY ANNIVERSARY OBSERVANCE, TETON AND YELLOWSTONE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONVENTION, AND FOR OTHER OCCASIONS Front row, standing, left to right, stake offcers: Eva Rice, social science class leader; Alta Murdoch, Second Counselor; Vera B. Tibbitts, President; Stella Orme, First Counselor; Sarah Allison, work meeting leader; Henrietta Bassett, Secretary-Treasurer, Therel Ricks, organist; Lisle Andrus, chorister. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 307 Second row, sixth from the left: Martha Remington, theology class leader. Third row, at the left: Ethel Pulley, visiting teacher message leader. Back row, at the left: Elva Swensen, literature class leader. Merle White, Magazine representative, was absent when this picture was taken. Sister Tibbitts reports: "This group has presented inspirational songs for the Relicf Society anniversary stake social, Teton and Yellowstone Stake Relief Society convention, for funerals, and for the recent stake conference. Among a variety of numbers which they have enjoyed presenting was: 'Come, Ye Blessed of My Father,' composed by Florence J. Madsen." a ¢ ot x 7 OM Photograph submitted by Pauline H. Stevens BIG IIORN STAKE (WYOMING) HONORS FORMER RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS AT LUNCHEON, August 9, 1961 Front row, seated, left to right: Fay Hartson Harris (1937-43) of Lovell, Wyoming, honored for outstanding service during Relief Society centennial year, and for bringing ward and stake histories up to date and compiling them in a centennial book; Hulda Morrell Lynn (1943-45), now of Compton, California, honored for her work and direction in gathering $5 from each member for the Relief Society Building; Grace Alexander Allphin (1945-1948), of Lovell, Wyoming, honored for collecting clothing which was sent to war-torn Europe. Back row, standing, left to right: Amelia Harris Robertson (1948-1955), of Lovell, Wyoming, honored for helping to raise funds for the stake house and initiating visiting teacher conventions in the stake; Helena Danialson Belnap (1955-1957), now living in Tlinois, honored for the comparative chart she used to bring up attendance at Relief Society meetings; Pauline Rollins Stevens, of Cowley, Wyoming, present President. Sister Stevens reports that Sister Belnap and Sister Lynn were in Lovell, Wyoming, for a visit during the summer, and a luncheon was given on August gth, honoring all former presidents. 308 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 Photograph submitted by Emily S. Romish POCATELLO STAKE (IDAHO) PRESENTS PROGRAM "VISITING TEACHERS OF LANDS WHERE OUR MISSIONARIES LABOR" AT MAY SOCIAL, 1961 Emily S. Romish, President, Pocatello Stake Relief Society, reports: "The picture is of four sisters from each of the six wards in our stake. These sisters represented the visiting teachers in foreign countries at the May social this year. The social honored the visiting teachers, and the theme was 'Visiting Teachers of Lands Where Our Missionaries Labor,' and 'Adapting the Visiting 'Teachers to Each Particular Home.' Beautiful musical selections were given to correlate with the theme. 'The program was under the direction of Violet Hart, Education Counselor, and Julia Robbins, chorister. At the conclusion of the program the sisters gathered in the recreation room to admire a display of handwork which had been made during the winter season and to be served light refreshments. The display was under direction of Letha Stevenson, Work Director Counselor, and Edla 'Toombs, work meeting leader." ograph submitted by Leta C. Pugh NORTHERN CALIFORNIA MISSION, FORMER REDWOOD DISTRICT VISITING TEACHER CONVENTION, September 23, 1961 Phot Standing at the back, left to right, former district board members: Myrtle Dillon, Secretary-Treasurer; Wanda Hodges, theology class leader; Dolly Allen, literature class leader; Dora Bingham, Second Counselor; Naline Felshaw, First Counselor; Leta C. Pugh, President, Northern California Mission Relief Society; Cynthia Schwenson, President, Redwood District Relief Society; Eldis Jensen, social science class leader; Henrietta Bown; Betty Jenks, work meeting leader; Grace Jones. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 309 Sister Pugh reports: "At this occasion the visiting teachers of the Redwood District enjoyed a lovely luncheon prepared by the sisters of the Eureka Branch. The front centerpiece was a beautiful arrangement of large yellow chrysanthemums. Each guest was presented with a lovely carnation corsage from the district board. After the luncheon the district board members presented a short dramatization of "The Key,' showing how we can merit the key and its blessings through visiting teaching. A total of sixty-five sisters attended, representing six branches and one dependent branch. "This was the last function which was held for the Relief Society in the Redwood District. The district was organized into the Redwood Stake, October 22, 1961. We are very happy for this organization and know that the sisters will receive much satisfaction in being members of a stake." = = Photograph submitted by Josephine Prinster GRAND JUNCTION STAKE (COLORADO) SINGING MOTHERS PRESENT MUSIC FOR STAKE QUARTERLY CONFERENCE, May 11, 1961 Front row, seated, left to right: Joyce Davis, chorister; Claudia Aubert, theology class leader; Bessie Gietz, literature class leader; Betty Christensen, Second Couaselor; Josephine Prinster, President; Beulah Whicker, First Counselor; Melba Larsen, Secretary; Viona Pace, organist. Sister Prinster reports: "Our presentation at Grand Junction Stake Convention was the first time this group sang together, as it was formed from the part of Grand Junction Stake that was left when it was divided last January, and our newly acquired members who formerly comprised West Colorado District Mission. Seven of our twelve Relief Societies are represented in this chorus. Some of the sisters traveled over one hundred miles to the practices. Our stake president was so pleased with our presentation that he has asked us to sing at our next stake quarterly conference." 310 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—APRIL 1962 NG nrnanea m ee Menace SAIt Sea At ow, e 3 ayes BD ( ee a &, Photograph submitted by May F. Carr NEW ENGLAND MISSION, GREENFIELD (MASSACHUSETTS) BRANCH RELIEF SOCIETY PRESENTS QUILT TO PRESIDENT AND SISTER CARR At the left Hilda Goucher, and at the right Marion Clapp, of the Greenfield Branch, Springfield District. May F. Carr, President, New England Mission Relief Society, reports: "A handmade quilt of unique design, fashioned by the Relief Society members of the Greenfield Branch was presented to President John E. Carr and Sister Carr at the Springfield District Conference, Springfield, Massachusetts. The quilt, measuring 80 by 106 inches, represents the map of the New England Mission, comprising all of the New England States and the Maritime Provinces of Canada. Near the center is the "Torch of Truth' and the rays quilted out from the torch represent the inspiration of these leaders throughout the mission. The border of each State and Province is embroidery work. President and Sister Carr were thrilled and surprised with the thoughtfulness of this branch. It is truly a keepsake for them, and will be a fond remembrance of their labors in the New England Mission." Grandmothers Know Christie Lund Coles Grandmothers cherish The little ones; Show that they love them With cookies and buns. Grandmothers hold them Hours without end; Read to them often, Play, ""Let's pretend." Grandmothers cherish them, For Grandmothers know How swift the years fly, And little ones go. Northwest Banff-Lake Louise Tour Including World's Fair at Seattle leaving June 23 Eight-day World's Fair Including Victoria, Canada leaving July 23 and August 18 Ten-day World's Fair Including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, and Victoria, Canada Leaving dates: June 9, July 1, July 6, August 1, August 17, September 21 Hill Cumorah Tour Leaving July 20 ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 Attention L. D. S. World's Fair Visitors Special Accommodations and Facilities Available to Families and Groups To assist you in arranging lodging, Seattles' two Stakes have established a Fair Housing Center. The Center is a joint project of all Seattle-area Wards. Special low rates have been set. Proceeds will be donated to building funds. Lodging of All Types 1. RECREATION HALLS — (Youth Groups) 2. FURNISHED APTS. — (Incl. Bedding) 3. PRIVATE HOMES Don't wait! Write today for Reservations and Information L. D. S. WORLD'S FAIR HOUSING CENTER 2114 Thorndyke West Seattle 99, Washington Phone: AT 4-5340 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance trom Sait Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 0.0. 635 150 to 300 miles ae Ae 39 300 to 600 miles 00.000. 645 ] 600 to 1000 miles — -02-22.. Ee..54 1000 to 1400 miles 20.00. 664 1400 to 1800 miles 00000000c.. 676 Over 1800 miles -0000000 687 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Page 311 Birthday Congratulations One Hundred Mrs. ExizaBetu Russert Day Hunter, Utah Mrs. ANNA GLACKEMYRE AGEE Big Lake, Minnesota Ninety-nine Mrs. FLorence Emiuine RITCHIE Ballarat, Australia Ninety-seven Mrs. SARAH ELIzABETH WILSON YouNG Sanford, Colorado Ninety-six Mrs. Hattie AmMEtiIA RuSHNELL FOSTER Belleville, Canada Ninety-five Mrs. Atice DELAMArE Gowans Tooele, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. Ortena M. PETERSON LARSON Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sarau H. BALLANTYNE Ogden, Utah Ninety-three Mrs. SarauH FitcH WuHyte Cardston, Canada Mrs. Atice Co. Uins Frost Ogden, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. Diann MERRITT BLAZZARD Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. EvizaBetH TABITHA PEDERSEN BIGLER Salt Lake City, Utah Page 312 Mrs. Ciara May Younc Speirs Los Angeles, California Mrs. Luena Farr Driver San Diego, California Ninety-one Mrs. Racnet Rosetta Rovecut Kaysville, Utah Mrs. Jutia ANGEL KNuDSON Provo, Utah Ninety Miss AppiE WALSH Belleville, Canada Mrs. AMANDA Moss PortTER Bountiful, Utah Mrs. EvizaBetH MILLER FAppIs Bountiful, Utah Mrs. IpA Ann ALLEMAN TAYLOR Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. JoHANNAH LUNDGREEN MapsEN CHRISTENSEN Union, Utah Mrs. Emma TERESA Morris Thatcher, Arizona Mrs. Lois ANN TANNER Brapy Mt. Pleasant, Utah Beauty Ida Isaacson Life is filled with beauty! See it! Feel it everywhere! There may be a thousand sorrows Almost too great to bear. But God has knowledge of this And took precautions there To fill our souls with beauty So that we could bear To lift the broken willow, Find another precious stone— For he would always be with us, Never leave us all alone. BOOKS > for the CHURCH PRELUDES, OFFERTORIES AND POSTLUDES — Schaum.85 _. SABBATH DAY MUSIC — Randolph ccccce ccc ceccceecceeeeneeel.50 me.. SACRED HOUR AT THE PIANO— ITO) 2220cceeeeeecceeesecdbesssecsescesesececcose2.00 coco SACRED MUSIC FOR PIANO SOLO — Collins 2.0.0.0 1.50 Z. SACRED PIANO ALBUM — Gahm..1.50 scot SACRED PIANO SOLOS — Rettenburg 02 - eee eecceeeee seconl.00 ee. SACRED PIANO TRANSCRIPTIONS — Peery 0 2022202-1.00 iam, SCHIRMERS FAVORITE SACRED SONGS — Stickles 2.00.0 1.25 soe SUNDAY PIANO MUSIC — CY |1.25 oo SUNDAY PIANO MUSIC — a |) rel.25 TRANQUIL HOURS — Presser 2.00 scoot TWELVE SACRED SONGS — SPONIOS ane. Ennccennenenn-e---enneeeeesl.25 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Sa't Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music _ indicated above. [] On Approval [] Charge L] Money Enclosed Ce er en ees ee Name Perm awcnrecen ence ccccs cen ceme ence ercscnacaceaseenes carn salt Lake City 11, Utah WORLD'S FAIR Leaving throughout summer Reserveations must be made early for these tours. HAWAIIAN TOUR June 7—June 24 L. D. S. PAGEANT TOUR July 28—August 20 Hawaiian and World's Fair Tour Leaving April 24 For further information regarding your travel please write or call MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 6-1601 — HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 MUSIC FOR EVERY PURPOSE —IN THE CHURCH OR HOME Le The Gospel Gives Unbounded SOre@MGEN s00--scccerscseees.30 = God of All Nature.30 Lord God of Our Fathers.25 Let Not Your Song End 26 <a Love One Another.30 ad Why a Singing Mother SURGE - ncccelscccsceseseceseecececees.30 Just Off the Press! Seldon N. Heaps ORGAN MEDITATIONS FOR CHURCH AND HOME — $1.50 He will autograph all orders MUSIC SENT ON APPROVAL! Use this ad as your order! (] Approval ([] Charge [J] Cash Cerri rir rr rir rrr ri rt rT t rr ty Name Ore wees eeeccs Dal esses esses ecouneeewusentane=seees COPS eee Tee ETE E ESTEE ETS SESE EEE EESBCES Glen Bros. Music Co. Salt Lake City, Utah 246 So. Main Second Class Postage Pai at Salt Lake City, Utah \ am TAR OF JUST OFF THE PRESS 1. STAND FAST BY OUR CONSTITUTION | /. Reuben Clark, Jr. A compilation of the finest discourses on freedom, the American way of life, and the Constitution of the United States — given by the late President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. Included are such titles as "Our Dwindling Sovereignty," "Let Us Have Peace," ""America — 'A Land Choice Above All Other Lands'" and 'Why J Am an American." 2.95 2. SEARCHING WITH SUCCESS Archibald F. Bennett A tremendous new book for the genealogist by Archibald F. Bennett, Fellow of the American Society of Genealogists. In it, "The Mission of Modern Israel" is clearly set forth as readers are awakened to the awareness of what they should do to find their dead and stimulated to make an intensive research for their ancestors. 2.28 DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check ( ) money order ( ) I have an account. R | | | | | | | Please charge. Amount enclosed $ -2.---..00-2: coes-200- for encircled (numbered) books
