Lucille R. Perry Penury has descended on our hill. Now that the gold coin of slender trees has paid Our summer debts, frail wisps of scorched leaves fill The dry creek's rocky bowl, and they are laid Between the new wind's whisper and brown grass, To murmur discontent when wild things pass. Bright as the proud cock preened, the former wood, With foliage fluffed to catch the rays of light; Brown as his little hen, now, thickets brood Where winds have stripped them naked in the night, Raising their forked limbs to supplicate each cloud For the white ease of winter's restful shroud. The Cover | Japanese Relief Society Sisters at Chinzanso Park, North Tokyo, Japan Color transparency by Gary J. Horton, submitted by Frances P. Andrus, Former President, Northern Far East Mission Relief Society Frontispiece | First Snow in Provo Canyon, Utah Photograph by Willard Luce Art Layout | Dick Scopes Cover | Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press TOM We are all delighted with the new color and pictures coming out in our Relief Society Magazine. The August insert "Jerusalem, City of Peace," by Christine H. Robinson, together with the lovely photographs by Dr. O. Preston Robinson, will prove invaluable. The editorial "In the Family There Is Strength" is beautifully worded and so true — how brief are the days with our families. —Mabel Jones Gabbott Bountiful, Utah I must tell you how I love our Relief Society Magazine. I have been a member of the Church for two years, and a member of Relief Society for the same length of time. I have so much enjoyed the article "Jesus and the Land He Loved," by Christine H. Robinsin, in the July issue of the Magazine, and also the beautiful photographs by Dr. O. Preston Robinson. —Margaret Lockwood Montagu Bay Tasmania, Australia The pictures and article "Jerusalem, City of Peace" (by Dr. O. Preston Robinson and Christine H. Robinson, August 1962) are truly beautiful. The Relief Society Magazine supplies the spiritual uplift that I stand very much in need of from time to time. —Mrs. Selma Bodtcher North Hollywood, California The poem sequence "Portrait of Freedom," by Alberta Huish Christensen, in the September issue of The Relief Society Magazine is a tremendous accomplishment — to me, a real work of art. I am so grateful for the way it was set up and illustrated. The page layouts are so lovely and appropriate. Every month the Magazine is beautiful from cover to cover. —Evada Bitler Idaho Falls, Idaho 794 ar arid Ser I must comment on our wonderful Relief Society Magazine. Oh, how lovely the July issue was. The flood story (by Frances C. Yost, of Bancroft, Idaho) made me cry. I can well imagine the joy in those sisters' hearts. 'Thank the Lord for our sisters in the gospel. I love every one of them. —Mrs. Olive Moore Melbourne, Australia My family is just like that of Vilate McAllister ('""My Family Likes All Kinds of I*ruit — Just So They Are Peaches," August 1962). I always thoroughly enjoy my Relief Society Magazine, from the articles, recipes, and sewing tips, right down through the lessons and poems. Several times in the past few years my sons have used the Magazine for a_ specific poem they needed for school. —Mary L. Allred Saratoga, Wyoming Please convey my thanks to Mabel Jones Gabbott for her wonderful poem "Before the Word Goes Forth" (June 1962). I have reread it with deep pleasure many times. Its mingled beauty and wisdom are poetry at its best. —Ina Hobson FE] Cajon, California I have so much enjoyed reading my July copy of The Relief Society Magazine. I have spent many lovely hours reading our Magazine. The lessons for October are most spiritual and inspirational. My daughter was interested in the recipes ("Quick Recipes for Busy Days," by Janet W. Breeze), and we tried out the Super Burgers. They were delicious. The Magazine is one of the best books published, there is so much of strength and wisdom in its pages. —Lucille Walker Tracy, Alabama 

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1962 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Marianne C. Sharp Editor Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor Belle S. Spafford General Manager 
Contents
SPECIAL FEATURES "Search the Scriptures; for in Them Ye Think Ye Have Eternal Life' __ Belle S. Spafford 796 Relief Society — Builder of Testimomies 220.2..2..2 eeee cescceeceeceeeeeceeeenceeeceeeeceeeneeesMarianne C. Sharp 802 "Union of Feeling' 20.0. Eeeee er eeLouise W. Madsen 804 Fawn Hansen Sharp Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society — 00 Irene C. Lloyd 806 Report and Official Instructions 20 eee ceceecceceececeneececceeeeseeseceeseneeceeescosseeescaneeesceeesBelle S. Spafford 807 FICTION The Little Blue Bag. Ooei.. EceeeieeceecccceececceceeesseeeeeececcasecceceesecceceescscessaccaceceseeensseceseaeceneeeecceeeseeneeeHelen C. Warr 816 Out of the Wilderness — Chapter 9 oo eeennShirley Thulin 834 GENERAL FEATURES (Cv ANVETs $0 Ce 09le Qi) 2c | iii ee 794 BEY YECTS AGO 0. N ceceseccncsssseccsssssscesssscerensnseccescesceeueesstaceecescessesesensencceceenceasenecscesuceatesesesecesnesuesnesestensesseseestenae 822 Woman's Sphere ooo cies eeeecceeeseeecesecneneneceeccceceeesccanensccesncenscenceeeseecessnceceesteneseccareseecececesRamona W. Cannon 823 Editorial: Relief Society Gives Thanks for New Members 20000..0 2..0coccccsecoe--Louise W. Madsen 824 In Memoriam — Fern Tanner Lee Amy Whipple Evans oooii. Ecciccceciicceecesceeceeecneecececeseeneececsecsnnceesceenceescaeetceceessuanstaseransnanenaseeseesesenaress cae 826 Notes From the Field: Relief Society Activities 20 lcececeeceeceeecceeececeeteeeeeeeesHulda Parker 839 Birthday Congratulations 20 eceeccseeseeeecceeeececeeeeecececeesceseeseecssnensssssescesccaneenessetaeseeceseseeeeesseses 872 FEATURES FOR THE HOME BUI TY AQGIN n cece sceceecessccensccesessssenqeeessssevesasesecsesssenessacesueterasreseasencnecceneensesCaroline Eyring Miner 814 Menu for Thanksgiving Dimmer oi csssseseceesececeeeeseoeenececeseceesscateseseeceecesecessecceeeeceesMary J. Wilson 828 Cut and Paste Christmas Cards ou ic. I. EcececssessssescececessecceseseeceseececceececneeecesecneesasensescasseaeesJanet W. Breeze 832 Elizabeth Welker Collects Samples of Antique and Modern Lace oo cece csseeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 846 LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY Theology — Talents and Testimonies.0 ie. CecececsscccsssessecssesccssceseeeeseesenesccereeceeeeceseceesRoy W. Doxey 847 Visiting Teacher Messages — 'Pray Always That You Enter Not Into Temptation' 20.00 Be cecacescanentttee _ i __aChristine H. Robinson 852 Work Meeting — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Clean (Part I) -eceee. Ececccessecosee-Virginia F. Cutler 854 Literature — The Literary Lincoln. A enBriant S. Jacobs 856 Social Science — Divine Law and Priesthood 2oi.. Ee. EcececcceesececececeeeeceseeecesseeeeeeaneeeceeneeesAriel S. Ballif 863 POETRY The Mendicant Hour — Frontispiece 2. Ecececccteecccesesececceeceseeeceeeeeeeee Lucille R. Perry 793 

Published monthly by THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. C 1962 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; riptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year; foreign, $2.00 a year; 20¢ a copy; payable in advance. Tne Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back ers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for. Unsolicited manuscripts. 

795 "Search the Scriptures; for in Them Ye Think Ye Have Eternal Life" President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1962] of this conference, as well as in most meetings of the Church, frequent reference is made to the word of the Lord to his children as recorded in the sacred scriptures. 'This teaching is one of the foremost functions of the Church. The Church has four volumes of scripture referred to as the "standard works of the Church": (1) The Bible, containing the Old and New Testaments, translated out of the original tongues. (2) The Book of Mormon, which is an abridgment of the record of peoples formerly living on the American Continent. This book, according to the preface, is "to show the remnant of the House of Israel what great things the Lord hath done for their fathers... And also to the convincing of the Jew and Gentile that Jesus is the Christ, the Eternal God." This volume of scripture has a place beside the Bible as a spiritual guide to mankind. The prophet Ezekiel made a significant prophecy relative to these two volumes being one in the hands of the Lord for his children in the latter days, as follows: 196 [ofthis conferen the sessions The word of the Lord came again unto me, saying, Moreover, thou son of man, take thee one stick, and write upon it, For Judah, and for the children of Israel his companions: then take another stick, and write upon it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and for all the house of Israel his companions: And join them one to another into one stick; and they shall become one in thine hand (Ezekiel 37:15-17). (3) A third volume is the Doctrine and Covenants, which contains revelations given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, with some additions by his successors in the Presidency of the Church. (4) The fourth volume is the Pearl of Great Price, which contains visions of Moses, as revealed to Joseph Smith the Prophet, and the translation of some ancient records — the writings of Abraham while he was in Egypt — which came into the hands of the Prophet. These are not the only scriptures, however. All scriptures are not found within the volumes of the standard works. We _ believe in continuous revelation and that those teachings which come from our prophets today: "SEARCH THE SCRIPTURES; FOR IN THEM YE THINK YE HAVE ETERNAL LIFE"... When moved upon by the Holy Ghost shall be scripture, shall be the will of the Lord, shall be the mind of the Lord, shall be the word of the Lord, shall be the voice of the Lord, and the power of God unto salvation (D & C 68:4). Wonder how often we, as individuals, are given to a contemplation of the importance and meaning in our lives of these sacred writings. How often do we ponder on what our lives would be, if these volumes were sealed against us. 'The loss would be incalculable. Conversely, I wonder how often we are given to count the great blessings which flow to us through having them readily available to us for our individual reading and study. The Lord made clear to Nephi what it meant to possess the sacred record of the Jews which was in the hands of Laban. When the Lord directed that Lehi and his family should possess this record and Laman sought to obtain it from Laban, Laban grew angry and thrust Laman out of his presence. 'Then, by commandment of the Lord, Nephi sought to obtain the record. In order for him to accomplish his purpose the Lord delivered Laban into the hands of Nephi, but it became necessary that Nephi should kill Laban or fail in his purpose. Never at any time had Nephi shed the blood of a man, and he shrank from 4 doing. Then the Spirit said unto im:... It is better that one man should perish than that a nation should dwindle and perish in unbelief (I Nephi 4:13). Then Nephi remembered the word of the Lord spoken to him in the wilderness, saying: 797... Inasmuch as thy seed shall keep my commandments, they shall prosper in the land of promise. Yea, and I also thought that they could not keep the commandments of the Lord according to the law of Moses, save they should have the law. And I also knew that the law was engraven upon the plates of brass (I Nephi 4:14-16). Therefore, Nephi obeyed the voice of the Spirit, and the record was obtained for his people. NDIVIDUALS have not always been fortunate in having copies of the scriptures in their possession for their individual use. At one time the people at large had to depend upon the teachings that came to them from their scribes and priests. Today, we are abundantly blessed in that everyone who will do so may possess these valuable volumes which contain the will of God for his children, the divine plan of life and salvation, the gospel of Jesus Christ, which is the power of God unto salvation. We may open them in our own homes and read the teachings and commandments of the Lord, ponder upon them, and apply them to our own lives and circumstances. President Joseph Fielding Smith in a General Relief Society Conference said that there should not be a Latter-day Saint home in all the world where there would not be found a Bible, a Book of Mormon, a copy of the Doctrine and Covenants, and of the Pearl of Great Price. This would apply, of course, where these latter volumes are translated into the native tongues. These 798 books should be conveniently at hand, inviting their use, and where family members may come to view them as a part of the make-up of the home. And it is mandatory upon us and to our eternal advantage, that we shall study them — search them diligently. The Doctrine counsels us: and Covenants. Yea, seck ve out of the best books words of wisdom; seek learning, even by study and also by faith (D & C 88:118). The best books are certainly those which contain the words of God; books that build faith in God — his holy scriptures. The Prophet Joseph Smith admonished the people: Search the scriptures — search the revelations which we publish, and ask your Heavenly Father, in the name of His Son Jesus Christ, to manifest the truth unto you, and if you do it with an eye single to His glory nothing doubting, He will answer you by the power of His Holy Spirit. You will then know for yourselves and not for another. You will not then be dependent on man for the knowledge of God; nor will there be any room for speculation (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, pp. 11-12). This admonition is for every individual. Each one must search for himself. Upon parents rests also an added responsibility — that of guiding and directing children in their search; of implanting in the hearts of their children a love and a reverence for the word of God as set forth in the scriptures. It is their duty to train children in the use of the scriptures, for the Lord has made clear that it is the duty of parents to see that children are reared in light and in truth. How RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 better can this be done than through familiarizing them with the word of the Lord as contained in the scriptures? While the Church, with the Priesthood quorums and the auxiliaries, plays a vital supporting role in teaching the gospel, as set forth in the scriptures, the primary responsibility for this rests with parents. MOTHERS are particularly favored in meeting this responsibility, since they are with the children in the home for more hours of the day than is the father. Brigham Young is recorded as saying:. Education commences with the mother, and the child.... It depends im a great degree upon the mother, as to what children receive, in early age, of principle of every description, pertaining to all that can be learned by the human family.... The character of a person ls formed through life, to a greater or less degree, by the teachings of the mother. The traits of early impression that she gives the child, will be characteristic points in his character through every avenue of his mortal existence (Journal of Discourses I, pp. 66-67). The scriptures themselves bear testimony of the truthfulness of the influence of the mother in these matters. Paul, writing to his dearly beloved Timothy, speaks of 'Timothy's childhood training as follows: When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that in thee also (II Timothy 1:5). Paul further wrote: But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them; "SEARCH THE SCRIPTURES; FOR IN THEM YE THINK YE HAVE ETERNAL LIFE" And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ (If 'limothy 3:14-15). I know of one young mother whose familiarity with and love for the scriptures came to her largely after her marriage to a returned missionary. So meaningful did they become in her own life that she has conscientiously devoted herself to helping her children to know and appreciate the scriptures. 'Today her ten-year-old girl and eight-yearold boy have their own copies of the standard works. At first, as very little ones, they were provided with illustrated stories taken from the Bible and Book of Mormon. Mother read these to the children. Later, the children, as they learned to read, would read the stories back to Mother. Then, as they read from their storybook, Mother would read the same story, in whole or in part, as the children were able to comprehend, from the scripture itself, explaining to the children the difference between the book from which she was reading and the storybook from which they read. Always she emphasized the greater value of the scripture, as such, implanting in the children a special regard for it. Later, as the children became ready, they would read to Mother a familiar story from the scripture itself. It was then that they were given their own volumes. When a simple verse had special meaning for the children, Mother would take time to help them memorize it. These she had the children mark in their own volumes. On occasions when the children are given opportunity to present a 799 talk in Sunday School or other Church gatherings, they make their selection of subject from their own books, with Mother's interested help and guidance. 'The selection is usually a principle of the gospel, such as prayer, Sabbath observance, or the Word of Wisdom, rather than a story. A regular practice in the home is for the father to inquire at dinner on Sunday, "What was your Sunday School lesson about?" Then, after dinner, the father makes a practice of helping the children find something about it in their books. Mother teaches Primary. 'The children and their scriptures are brought actively into her lesson preparation. Thus, acquaintance with the scripture has been handled in a way that has brought happy companionship with mother and father, as well as light and truth into the lives of the children, along with an acquaintance with these great books of divine wisdom and law. In addition, the hours spent together with the word of the Lord are bound to develop a close family unity, which, in itself, will bring rich rewards. N this day of intensified missionary effort, Latter-day Saint mothers, imbued with a testimony of the gospel, strive earnestly to prepare their sons and daughters to be worthy and ready to receive a call to missionary service. Is not a knowledge of the scriptures, training in how to use them effectively, a very vital part of this preparation? The scriptures are, without doubt, the great proselyting tools of the missionary. Fortunate indeed is the 800 young man or woman who goes into the mission field knowing his tools and how to use them. It enables him to speak with power and authority to the convincing of his hearers. The Book of Mormon points this out with reference to the missionary labors of the sons of Mosiah, who, along with Alma the younger, persecuted the Church and then were miraculously converted, as was Paul. Following their conversion the sons of Mosiah filled a mission to the Lamanites. One day as Alma was journeying in the Land of Gideon southward he met with the sons of Mosiah, and he rejoiced to see his brethren and, says the scripture:. What added more to his joy, they were still his brethren in the Lord; yea, and they had waxed strong in the knowledge of the truth; for they were men of a sound understanding and they had searched the scriptures diligently, that they might know the word of God. But this is not all; they had given themselves to much prayer, and fasting; therefore they had the spirit of prophecy, and the spirit of revelation, and when they taught, they taught with power and authority of God.... By the power of their words many were brought before the altar of God, to call on his name and confess their sins before him (Alma 17:2-4). The vast content of the scriptures cannot be mastered in a moment or a day. It is a lifetime labor. I recall several years ago when Relief Society sisters were studying The Book of Mormon, it was expected that every sister would read the book in its entirety As a special feature of the Relief Society General Conference and to encourage the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 sisters in their efforts, a member of the Twelve was invited to speak to them on the subject of The Book of Mormon. Last minute circumstances, however, made it impossible for him to attend the Conference and meet the assignment. It became necessary for us to obtain another speaker on very short notice — in fact, the morning of the day on which the address was scheduled. The service of Elder Matthew Cowley was enlisted. Elder Cowley delivered a masterful address, in which he bore this impressive testimony: I would like to bear my testimony to you about the book which you are studying in Relief Society, the Book of Mormon. I know nothing about archaeology. I have not studied the maps which apparently relate to the Book of Mormon, the travels of the Lehites, the Lamanites, and so forth. I know very little about the outside evidences of the Book of Mormon, but I have a testimony of the divinity of this book, and that testimony has come to me from within the two covers of the book itself ("Testimony Through Reading The Book of Mormon," The Relief Society Magazine, January 1953, pp. 7-8). Following the session of the conference, in grateful appreciation, I said to Brother Cowley, "I marvel that you could give such a magnificent and convincing address, with so little time in which to prepare." To this Brother Cowley responded by saying, "What do you mean by little time in which to prepare? I had plenty of time. I have had a lifetime. My preparation for that address began when I was a little boy at my mother's knee." "SEARCH THE SCRIPTURES; FOR IN THEM YE THINK YE HAVE ETERNAL LIFE" 801 The Lord has said: He that seeketh me early shall find me, and shall not be forsaken (D & C 88:83). In Second Timothy, 3:16-17, we read: All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for teproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness: That the man of God may be perfect, throughly furnished unto all good works. May the Lord bless us to love and appreciate these sacred writings and to follow their admonitions. May he help us as mothers to train our children to do likewise I sincerely pray. Evelyn H. Hughes Time is the essence near the season's end, When, row on row, the weighted apples bend Earthward their sun-flecked treasure. Quick! Now is the time of harvest. We must pick Each russet and ruby, green and golden gem, Basket on overflowing basket heaped with them. Hurry! The day is waning toward the night — The harvest hours vanish with the light. A keening wind across the barren fields Startles the drowsy orchard. Nature yields No time; the darkness brings the frost. Gather the apples in, or all is lost. Relief Society - Builder of Testimonies Counselor Marianne C. Sharp [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1962] ELIEF Society offers women a unique opportunity to gain a testimony of the gospel and the means of strengthening that testimony daily. As the Church spreads over the earth at the greatly accelerated rate of the past few years, Relief Society organizations offer to women, Church members, converts, investigators of different nations and peoples, the blessings of Relief Society. It can be a proselyting medium. It offers women a unique opportunity to build testimonies of the gospel because it is unique. It is the organization on the earth given by our Heavenly Father for the perfecting of his daughters. The Prophet Joseph Smith was inspired to organize it, and it has been directed by the Priesthood of God through its 120 years With the instruction of President McKay that every Church member should bea missionary, every Relief Society member should arouse herself to the wonder of Relief Society and bend her earnest efforts to bring into this testimony-building, divine Society the women of her own land. Relief Society members might take to themselves the words of Paul to the Romans: For I long to see you.... That I might have some fruit among you also, even as among other Gentiles. I am debtor both to the Greeks, and to the Barbarians; both to 802 the wise, and to the unwise.... For J am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth... (Romans 1:11, 13-14, 16). In this day the Lord has said, "And let your preaching be the warning voice, every man to his neighbor, in mildness and in meekness' (D & C 38:41). Cannot Relief Society members in mildness and in meekness bring Relief Society's divine, testimony-building Society to the attention of neighbors? For we, also, are indebted to the wise and to the unwise, to those living today comparable to the Greeks and Barbarians of Paul's day who were non-Romans. Relief Society is unique among women's groups. Relief Society is not a Church study club, although the members faithfully study the standard works of the Church; it is not a homemakers club, although every member is trained in_ better homemaking; it is not a literary club, although members gain deep understanding from great writings; it is not a social service club, although it studies and sponsors the giving of service; it is not a moneymaking club, although substantial monetary support is given to Church programs. It is an inspired organization with the highest eternal goals. A year ago, speaking at the Relief RELIEF SOCIETY—BUILDER OF TESTIMONIES Society conference, President Brown said: When we speak of other organizations and auxiliaries, we often speak of their programs and their activities, but whenever we speak of Relief Society, the word work is mentioned. We say Relief Society work, or the work of Relief Society (Rehef Society Magazine, December 1961, page 811). And what is this work of which President Brown spoke? 'The grand key-words which the Prophet Joseph gave to Relief Society in 1842 to act upon were the words, "Said Jesus, 'Ye shall do the work which ye see me do.'" At a later Relief Society meeting, the Prophet Joseph urged, "If the sisters loved the Lord, let them feed the sheep," and the "Society is not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls" (D. H. C. V, pp. 24-25). In meekness and mildness, we should redouble our efforts to reach our sisters and the strangers within our gates and help them to partake of the blessings and opportunities of Relief Society. The power of Relief Society is the sum of the individual members' testimonies — humble, burning testimonies which burn away disharmony, bickering, or ill-feelings and engender a spirit of unity and the building up of each other. These testimonies are gained not alone by study of the scriptures, discussions among the sisters and testimony bearing, but by doing the work Jesus did. You recall the words of James, "Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works: shew me thy faith without thy works, and I 803 will shew thee my faith by my works" (James 2:18). Relief Society offers the opportunity for every woman to demonstrate her faith by her works. To build a testimony founded upon rock, we must learn to love our neighbor. As individuals most sisters are kind and obliging to a neighbor whom they know in trouble. But the good Samaritan did not know the man lying wounded, except that he belonged to a race which despised the Samaritan's race. So with the growth of love of neighbor in Relief Society. Directed by one in authority, a sister serves those whom she is directed to serve, wherever and in the way she is directed. Through this unselfish, dedicated service, the souls of Relief Society members are expanded, and works complement faith, and additional blessings return to a _ mother through the influence her example has on her children. They, likewise, are the blessed recipients of the increasing strength of the testimony of their mother. As Relief Society members, we are the seekers of the celestial kingdom. We know that Relief Society holds before us the means and encouragement for reaching that kingdom. We strive to increase the light and knowledge we have. We know that faith without works is dead and that to save ourselves we must save others. A testimony of the gospel is our most precious possession. It can be gained in Relief Society, and we must share the glorious Relief Society with others — that each member may do so in this coming year, I pray. "Union of Feeling" Counselor Louise W. Madsen [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1962] ST before he entered the Garden of Gethsemane on the night of his betrayal, the Lord "lifted up his eyes to heaven' and prayed to the Father. President David O. McKay speaks of this prayer as "the greatest, most impressive prayer ever uttered in this world." His prayer was for those who had believed on him and for "them also which shall believe on" him. A sublime message contained therein is this verse: "That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us." This is a most beautiful expression of the principle of unity. It is this principle of unity, this spirit of being "one," which has been instrumental in enabling the Church to progress and to accomplish the purposes for which it was established. One of the statements of the Prophet Joseph Smith to Relief Society which has great and continuing significance is "By union of feeling we obtain power with God." This is an expression of the principle of unity which shows how it works to 804 fulfill purposes. 'The Prophet urged the sisters to obtain power from on high by being "one" in spirit and determination to do the work he would have them do. The fact that they have done so is attested by the growth and accomplishment of Relief Society throughout the world. Separation by miles of land and oceans of water does not change nor diminish the feeling for, nor necessity of "oneness." A quarter of a million women unified in feeling and purpose, seeking power from our Heavenly Father in righteousness, can exert a tremendous influence for good wherever they may be. What is this power we may obtain? Is it not to do what is good, to do what the Lord requires of us, to do justly and to walk humbly? Is it not the privilege to serve we seek, the moving force of compassion we feel? Is it not the power of strength and the blessing of knowledge we cherish? Is it not the power of unselfish thought and action, selflessness, the ability to rise above fault-finding and petty mind- "UNION OF FEELING" edness we desire? We are again reminded that these aspects of power are derived through "union of feeling." 'This kind of unity cannot be maintained successfully with less than the best from everyone. Dissatisfaction with mediocrity enhances the ability of the whole organization to use this heaven-given power to its fullest extent. The vision and aim must be high and the integrity of purpose and dependability of each member must be heightened. Those to whom power is given must-assume the responsibilities that go with it. 'The greatest responsibility is wise leadership. To guide, persuade, and direct aright, to fortify in righteousness, to educate and to give impetus to courageous action, are facets of leadership for which women in Relief Society are trained. The strength of an organization of women dedicating itself to good, fitting itself for what there is to do, and thoroughly believing that its work is basically and spiritually right, is the strength required by the Lord for the work. PAUL in his epistle to the Romans, speaks of the "mutual faith both of you and me," and beseeches his brethren to "strive together' in all that must be done. He warns them to avoid "divisions and offences contrary to the doctrine." A number of the sisters he singled out for special commendation. 805 I commend unto you Phebe our sister, which is a servant of the church which is at Cenchrea: That ye receive her in the Lord, as becometh saints, and that ye assist her in whatsoever business she hath need of you: for she hath been a succourer of many, and of myself also. Greet Priscilla and Aquila my _ helpers in Christ Jesus: Who have for my life laid down their own necks: unto whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles. Greet Mary, who bestowed much labour on us Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labour in the Lord. Salute the beloved Persis, which laboured much in the Lord (Romans 16:1-4, 6, 12). This kind of commendation can also be given to many individual women in this dispensation. Great numbers of sisters holding office in the Society could be described in Paul's words as having "laboured much in the Lord." But it is the Society as a whole, as an auxiliary of the Church, receiving power from God by "union of feeling," which best serves to do the work which the Lord would have done by an organization of his daughters. Beautiful are the bonds of sisterhood! Uplifting are the ties of friendship. Glorious is the work of thousands of sisters unified in righteous purpose. Humbling is the realization that it is the Lord's work we are to do. May he bless us with the desire to approach him in "union of feeling," and be one as Christ prayed his followers would be, I pray. Fawn Hansen Sharp Appointed to the General Board of Relief Society Irene C. Lloyd Member, Gencral Board of Relief Society FAWN HANSEN SHARP AWN Hansen Sharp was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society, September 9g, 1962. She has accepted this call in the same spirit as she has accepted every other assignment, with a will to serve to the best of her ability. Sister Sharp is a daughter of Peter Alvin and Lucy Blain Hansen. Her grandparents were pioneers of Spring City, Sanpete County, Utah, and helped on the construction work of the Manti Temple. Her father left to serve on a mission when Sister Sharp was only one month old. Her parents, both deceased, were devout Church workers, and taught their children to live and understand the principles of the gospel. Sister Sharp attended the Latterday Saints College, later the University of Utah, and taught five years in the schools of Box Elder County. 806 She married J. Vernon Sharp in 1930 in the Salt Lake Temple, and to this union came four lovely daughters, two who have passed away, one an infant, Judy Lynn, and one in young womanhood, Darlene Sharp Topham. 'The other daughters are married, Shirley to Lee Pitchforth, and Susan to John Hutchinson. Both girls are actively engaged in Church service, one serving as a Relief Society president, and the other as a literature class leader. There are four grandchildren. Sister Sharp recently returned from serving a three-year mission with her husband President Sharp. He was president first over the original Andes Mission, now divided into the Chilean and Andes Mission. She helped to organize thirty Relief Societies and directed the translation of Relief Society manuals. She served as Relief Society president of Holladay Third and Fifth Wards, and has been active in some Church capacity since she was in the ninth grade. "Charity Never Faileth" applies well to Sister Sharp, for the extra mile has never been too long nor too hard for her, if it meant bringing comfort to those in need or in Sorrow. Sister Sharp has always been ready to render service to her neighbor. Love of her Church, her family, and her strong testimony of the gospel will give strength to all who came in contact with her in her new calling. Report and Official Instructions President Belle S. Spafford [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, October 3, 1962] regular feature of the Officers Meeting of the Annual Relief Society Conference is the presentation of a brief report of the status of the Society as shown in the Annual Report, together with a few instructions and recommendations of the General Board designed to help the Society function more uniformly and successfully. These reports show highly gratifying accomplishments on the part of both stake and mission Relief Societies. General Board We are pleased to introduce to you four new General Board members appointed since the last General Conference: Sister Irene C. Lloyd, former president of the Holladay Stake Relief Society; Sister Hazel S. Cannon, former counselor in the Federal Heights Ward Relief Society; Sister Hazel S. Love, formerly Relief Society president of the Northern California Mission; and Sister Fawn H. Sharp, former Relief Society president of the Andes Mission. All four sisters are devoted Latter-day Saints, experienced in Relief Society work, and have a sincere desire to be helpful to you through their service as General Board members. Organizations and Reorganizations The growth in number of organizations is encouraging. At the close of 1961 there were 345 stake organizations. 'I'wenty-six new stake organizations were created during the year. There were four stakes located in Great Britain; five on the European Continent; six in the South Seas; two in Old Mexico; seven in Canada; and the remainder in the United States. This is evidence of the growing strength of the Church in faraway places and in foreign lands. Ward and branch organizations in the stakes, according to our Annual Report, were increased by 261, making a total of 3,142. There were sixty-four missions at the end of the year, an increase of nine. During 1961 there were fifty-six reorganizations in the stakes and 807 808 nineteen in the missions. We are grateful for the services of the retired officers. To the sisters who are succeeding them we extend a warm welcome into the Relief Society family of officers. Missions Rapid growth is characterizing the work in the missions. Membership is increasing; many new branch and district organizations are being formed. A Relief Society mission president writes: Our district organizations function very well. Full Relief Society boards of twelve members are set up with regular leadership meetings being held with all recommended departments being conducted. Some of the sisters travel as far as 100 miles to attend the leadership meetings. Through these meetings general improvement is noted in the work of the Society. Although distances between homes of members is a problem in most missions, visiting teaching is being extended. Singing Mothers choruses, with special concerts being held, are reported by a number of Relief Society mission presidents. Unusual success is also attending Magazine promotion work. In some instances the sisters labor under unusual difficulties and strains. In one of the missions where the political situation presents unusual problems, the president informs us that "maintaining family solidarity is a problem, but the sisters express great appreciation for the lessons as a help in this matter." We recognize the wonderful leadership being given to Relief Society in the missions by the mission Relief RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 Society presidents and thank them for their service. Membership The Society's membership program for the past two years has been characterized by intensive effort. The entire active membership seems to have united as one in response to the membership building and fellowshipping call that came to them from the Brethren. Stake and ward presidents have demonstrated resourcefulness and dynamic leadership. As a result, for 1961, the membership was increased by 16,899, making a total membership of 231, ig. Heart-warming stories have reached the General Board of your fellowshipping activities. 'Time permits me to relate only one which is typical. A sister writes: I am what the Relief Society sisters call a re-activated Relief Society member. In truth I am a re-activated Latter-day Saint because of Relief Society. I was born to Latter-day Saint parents but was not baptized until I was twelve years old. For a while I attended Church with my gitl friends. 'Then we moved to a new community and I quit going to Church. Later, after I married, a visiting teacher induced me to enroll in Relief Society. I went for a time or two and then dropped out. This seemed of little consequence to me or anyone else for that matter. A year ago I was invited to a special Relief Society party. It was delightful. I don't know when I have spent a happier or more interesting afternoon. The women were lovely and very cordial. They urged me to pick up my Relief Society membership. I did not respond immediately but they kept after me. Because they seemed so sincere in wanting me, in what I thought at the time was a moment of weakness, I did enroll. It wasn't a moment of weakness, Sister Spafford, it was 4 moment of great blessing. The sisters REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS immediately took me in as one of them. They demonstrated that I was needed. They made me a visiting teacher with a sweet-spirited companion. Then after awhile they had me organize a ward Singing Mothers chorus which I love. They have given me other important things to do. There is so much to do in Relief Society that is worthwhile. I am learning a great deal about the gospel, about which I knew very little, and I am oh, so very happy. I guess other wards have good Relief Societies and lovely women, but I cannot believe there is any ward quite like mine or any women quite so good and kind. Now I feel as if I want every woman I know to join Relief Society and I want you to know how I feel. Average Attendance Just as your membership and fellowshipping accomplishments are heartening, so also is the average attendance record. Attendance increased from 36.91 per cent of the total enrollment to 38.44 per cent. This represents an increase in number of women present at the regular weekly meetings of 9,820. Wellorganized nurseries, with carefully planned activities, are proving a boon to attendance. Two-Session Ward Relief Societies Some wards are holding two-session Relief Societies—daytime and evening sessions—to accommodate working mothers. Sisters, we are pleased to advise you that a plan has been worked out by the Brethren for two-session Relief Societies. A copy of this is available at General Board headquarters upon request of stake Relief Society presidents for wards which may wish to enter into such an arrangement. The holding of evening Relief Societies on a stake basis is not authorized. Relative to this we have been 809 instructed by our advisors from the Council of Twelve as follows: If evening Relief Societies are felt necessary to meet the needs of working women, they should be conducted on a ward basis according to the approved plan. There would be no objection, however, in bringing together occasionally the sisters attending evening Relief Society sessions for a stake function, but the conduct of regular Relief Society meetings by the stake board for Relief Society members is disapproved. If wards are unable to hold evening sessions weekly, it is permissible to conduct them on a monthly or bi-monthly basis. Such lesson courses as would meet the interests and needs of the greatest number of sisters attending would be selected by the ward Relief Society presidency in consultation with the stake Relief Society presidency from the approved lesson courses for the current year. The General Board has had a few requests from Latter-day Saint proprietors of homes for the aging for Relief Societies to be conducted in the homes for the benefit of Latter-day Saint resident sisters. The regulations set up by the Brethren for the conduct of meetings in such homes are available upon request at the General Board office. Such meetings should not be undertaken without stake Relief Society presidents obtaining a copy of these regulations which they would make available to the stake president. Visiting Teaching It is with gratitude that we report to you today that last year 100,059 visiting teachers made a total of 810 3,943,596 (approximately 4,000,000) visits to the homes—an increase of 204,854 over 1960. 'The good accomplished by this program is unmeasurable. To call at a home, uninvited, as an emissary of Relief Society, imposes upon visiting teachers the responsibility of conducting the visit in a spirit of humility, sisterhood, and service, and according to standards set by the Society. In turn, this imposes upon ward presidents a very definite responsibility properly to direct the visiting teachers. 'The ten-minute period allowed presidents in the visiting teacher meeting should be devoted to helping the teachers effectively perform their duties, and not to extraneous matters. We suggest that stake presidents call this to the attention of their respective ward presidents and that definite guidance be given them in the use of this time through the leadership meeting. Educational Program The educational program, we believe, is a powerful force in influencing the beliefs, attitudes, viewpoints, and conduct of Relief Society members. The approximate 20,000 class leaders devote countless hours to the preparation of their respective lessons, and classwork, generally speaking, is excellent. 'The theology course on the Doctrine and Covenants, and the visiting teacher messages, "Truths to Live By From_ the Doctrine and Covenants," also the literature course on American Literature, for 1962 and 1963, are a continuation of those of last year. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 A new social science course entitled, "Divine Law and Church Government" will be introduced. The objective of this course is "to understand the law of God as it operates through his Priesthood for the exaltation of his children." This course, we believe, will be highly challenging to class leaders and extremely valuable to the sisters in helping them better to understand and appreciate Church government. Relief Society Materials in Spanish We are happy to announce that at the request of the General Board there has been translated into Spanish some Relief Society lesson helps and administrative materials. A kit suitable for use in wards and branches is now available for soc at the General Board office. It contains the 1962 convention helps for theology, social science, visiting teacher messages, music, and work meeting, and some basic instructions on visiting teaching and on the preparation and presentation of lessons. Also translated into Spanish for the use of stakes and districts, and available singly at 10c each, or in a second packet for $1, are other convention and conference materials on membership, visiting teaching, presidential and secretarial instructions, and music helps. A list of these materials may be obtained from the General Board office. Lesson manuals containing the Relief Society lessons for 1962-63 in Spanish are obtainable for 75° from the Missionary Department, 47 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah. Payment for manuals must accompany the order. REPORT AND OFFICIAL. INSTRUCTIONS Magazine The steadily increasing Magazine circulation is a tribute both to the worth of the Magazine content and to the Magazine representatives who render such outstanding service. The circulation at the close of 1961 was 183,236—an increase of 12,234 over the previous year. 'There were 303 stakes and twenty-four missions on the honor roll. We hope you feel as do we that the addition of color to the inside pages adds to the attractiveness and general enjoyment of the publication. Work Meeting We are pleased with the work meeting activities being planned and conducted by the wards. 'There seems to have been a broadened view of what is helpful to the sisters in their daily homemaking. A _ large volume of articles was produced as follows: Sewed articles Non-sewed articles 535,853 225,161 This represents a total of 761,014 or an increase of 105,221 articles over the previous year. The work meeting discussions for 1962-63 are designed to show how the Latter-day Saint home may set an example in homemaking. These discussions will undoubtedly suggest to alert work meeting leaders additional homemaking programs for the work meeting. We caution you against creating an additional department in the leadership meeting, by authorizing the work meeting discussion leaders to meet separately from the regular work meeting department to consid- 811 er the brief discussions "The Latterday Saint Home." This procedure is contrary to the regulations of the General Board. Bazaars held during the past year reflected high standards of workmanship, good judgment as to useful and saleable articles, as well as fair pricing; they showed evidence of having drawn upon the creative ability and skills of the sisters. Relative to bazaars, we have had called to our attention by presidents of foreign missions requests that have been received by sisters of their respective missions from Relief Societies in the United States for items to be sold at so-called International Relief Society Bazaars. In return, the United States Relief Societies offer to send to the foreign Relief Society items made by the sisters here. This has caused considerable trouble in the foreign missions and is contrary to a regulation of the General Board issued in 1950 as follows: "Funds or articles to be sold at bazaars should not be solicited from sisters living outside the geographic boundaries of the ward holding the bazaar." We trust you will keep this regulation in mind. Compassionate Services and Church Welfare Compassionate services and Church welfare activities held their rightful place of importance during 1961. There were 357,334 visits to the sick and homebound or an increase of 34,780. 'There were 30,211 eight-hour days bedside nursing care given the sick, or an increase of 661 days. 'There were over 400,000 hours devoted to other types of compassionate service—a magnificent in- 812 crease Of 126,087 hours in this area of service. Ward Relief Society presidents made 93,625 family visits under the direction of their respective bishops —an increase over 1961 of 8,154 visits. There were 54,422 Relief Society members who assisted on welfare projects, while the sisters of the Church contributed 789,807 hours time to these projects. In recording the number of family visits, all visits to the home, whether initial or follow-up visits, were included. A new edition of the ward and stake record books will go into use in January 1963. In addition to calling for the number of home visits, the new editions of the record books call for the number of other contacts made to families in need by ward Relief Society presidents under the direction of their respective bishops. This will include telephone conversations, contacts with the family at Church or other places —in fact, any contacts other than home visits at which time information is received pertaining to the needs of the family. Also, in recording the number of hours contributed to Church welfare projects, credit is being extended to include time contributed by a sister in order to make it possible for another sister to accept an assignment. For example, Sister A might have a bedfast mother in her home so could not accept an assignment to go to the cannery, unless someone was available to stay with the mother. Sister B might be physically unable to work at the cannery but could sit with Sister A's mother, thus allowing Sister A to accept the asRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 signment. If such an arrangement is made by the Relief Society work director counselor under the direction of the bishop, the time spent by both sisters would be counted and both would receive work receipts. Presidents, please call these matters to the attention of your ward presidents. Revised Record Books and Visiting Teacher Report Books In addition to the new editions of the ward and stake record books to which I have just referred, a new edition of the visiting teacher report book will also go into effect in January 1963. Both the record book and the visiting teacher report book have a few revisions over those presently in use which will be explained in detail in the Secretary-Treasurers Department tomorrw. We suggest that stake presidents discuss these revisions with their respective secretarytreasurers so that stake presidents may be fully acquainted with them and in a position to explain them, in turn, to the respective ward presidents at a forthcoming leadership meeting. One important revision will allow for a record to be kept for the number of non-Latter-day Saint women who are members of Relief Society; also, the number of visiting teacher visits made to non-L. D. S. Families. We hope presidents will be especially aware of this. Singing Mothers While there are 2,599 Singing Mothers choruses, we feel concerned at the decline in a single year of 453 choruses, with 8,440 fewer women participating. This calls for special attention from stake Relief Society REPORT AND OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS presidents. 'Too many ward presidents seem to have felt that with the discontinuance of the special Fast Sunday evening programs, there is not sufficient opportunity for a ward chorus to sing to justify having one. This is not so. Opening and closing socials, Anniversary Day programs, Christmas functions, programs held in connection with bazaars, lesson work, funerals—these and other occasions might utilize a chorus. Some ward bishops use Singing Mothers occasionally for sacrament meeting at times when the ward choir is not available. Presidents, we urge you to encourage ward Relief Society Singing Mothers choruses. Finances Generally speaking, Relief Societies adequately finance themselves to meet the general operating expenses, with a possible exception of a few newly created stakes, particularly those in foreign countries. We again suggest to these new stakes the careful reading of the section on "Funds" in the Handbook. Feel free, also, to discuss this matter with the General Board representatives who visit with you in your Relief Society conventions. Conclusion Sisters, in your efforts to forward the program of Relief Society and to bring more women actively into the organization, you are engaged in highly profitable endeavors. Relief Society is a wonderful organization, with tremendous power for good. As an aid to the Priesthood in advancing the work of the Church, it makes 813 a worthy contribution to the building of our Fathers kingdom on earth. As an organization for women, it touches every facet of their lives. It has the power to make of its members sweet-spirited, thoughtful, kind women; to make them competent and poised women; cultured and refined women. It influences their manners, their speech, and their tastes. It develops within them a sense of appropriateness or fitness in what they do and say— even in how they dress. Occasionally you may note a woman coming to Relief Society inappropriately dressed or whose general appearance does not bespeak the dignity which we associate with Relief Society. We also note that it is not long, however, until the formality and dignity of the meetings, the example of officers and the general teachings of the Society develop within her an awareness of what is appropriate and right. Yes, Relief Society is a power in helping women to be their best selves—lovely, lovable, useful women whose lives are purposeful and exemplary; women who are about their Father's business. All of this carries over into their homes and bears fruit in the character of their homes and in the lives of their children. To be called to a position of leadership in an organization which plays so important a role in the work of the Church and which so vitally influences women to serve aS an example to Latter-day Saint women, is a responsibility of consequence as well as a sacred trust. May the Lord inspire and guide you in your callings, I sincerely pray. Eva Willes Wangsgaard I stand above exotic tropic bloom Begonias yield within their sun-flecked shade, The hose relinquishing a silver plume Of liquid life to burnish leafy jade. While all about petunias climb and spread High up the fence and over moistened roots. Bright garlanded in apples overhead, The Hopa crabtree molds its crimson fruit. Yet something indefinable repeats A thin familiar warning, "Autumn's near." And deep within me smoldering protests beat A sharp denial to the waning year. Each mellow moment caught in summer's wake Tempers my joy with its peculiar ache. Try, Try Again Caroline Eyring Miner 'PERSEVERANCE is more prevailing than violence; and many things which cannot be overcome when they are together, yield themselves up when taken little by little," so philosophized Plutarch. This puts me in mind of the dozen sticks which could not be broken when held together, but one by one they were overcome. My mother used to say it more simply in the old adage: "If at first you don't succeed, try, try again," or "Practice makes perfect." President Grant said substantially the same thing in the words: "That which we persist in doing soon becomes easy to do, not that the nature of the thing has changed, but that our power to do has increased." When living the whole gospel, one cannot be deflected from his faith, but only as he falls away, commandment by commandment, precept by precept. Perfection is made trifle by trifle, but in itself is not a trifling thing. My mother told me of the painstaking remaking of her seams when sewing as a child. She learned to be one of the finest quilters in the whole valley. 814 = fi Pie Don Knight TORREY PINES PARK, SAN DIEGO, CALIFORNIA Lael W. Hill These mountain ways are tall and proud; I run to them, I shout aloud, I love them with a love oh fierce As thrust of stone — my cliffs that pierce Thunder and night and needled snow!... It is with gentler joy I go To lift warm, water-rippled sands And pour them back from sun-held hands, To lean upon the salt-soft air | In wind-bowed attitudes of prayer: I meet the everlasting seas Quietly, upon my knees. 66 URRY, Mama, they will go H without me." Margaret had been too excited about the Christmas shopping trip to touch her breakfast. Now she could not wait to put on her galoshes or fasten the scarf about her neck. Her mother held up one of the red, knitted mittens, and Margaret pushed her hand into it, then repeated the movement with the other hand. "Oh! My money!" she exclaimed. "Here it is, dear.' Mrs. Haskell smiled at her young daughter. "I have tied it in the corner of your handkerchief." 816 - Little "Blue Bag Helen C. Warr "Thank you, Mama." Margaret took the knotted corner and clasped it tightly in her mittened hand. She kissed her mother hurriedly and ran out the back door, as the sleigh drew up and stopped in the yard. Today was the big day. She and Ross were doing their Christmas shopping alone this year. Always before Mama had gone with her and made suggestions as to what she should buy for Papa and for Ross. But today she and Ross were riding into town with Papa and would go into Mr. Kruger's store and decide all by themselves. Mama had said LITTLE BLUE BAG maybe they should put their money together and buy just one gift for each person instead of two, but Ross always wanted to buy different things. She had thought and thought about it and could not decide what she should do. Papa helped her up into the sleigh and tucked her in between himself and Ross. Ross was only four years older than she, but he always tried to act like Papa. Sometimes he called her a little girl. Papa did, too, but it was all right when he did it, for his voice sounded so much nicer when he said it. "Well, so my little girl is going Christmas shopping?" She knew Papa would be looking at her in that way he always looked when he called her his little girl. His eyes would twinkle, the corners of his mouth would turn up, and, if she looked at him, he would wink ever so slightly with his left eye. She looked up at him now, and he winked with his left eye and said, "Have you decided what you will buy for Mama?" "She will want to buy some silly thing like... Like perfume... Most likely, or..." Ross hesitated. "Could we, Ross?" Margaret asked. She had not thought of perfume, but Mama might like that. She had not known about perfume until just lately when she was helping Mama clean out the bureau drawers. She had seen the little bottle with the rubber bulb, in the top drawer, and had asked what it was. Mama had squeezed the bulb and said, "It's perfume, dear." Margaret had thought the fragrance was heavenly, and had said so. Now she remem- 817 bered the smell of the perfume and it was just like Mama always smelled. "See, what did I tell you!" said Ross. "But couldn't we, Ross?' Margaret asked again. "Maybe you had better let me buy the perfume." Papa laughed and patted her hand. T was a nice day for going Christmas shopping, thought Margaret. Yesterday's snow had settled and was packed down under the feet of the horses and runners of the sleighs that had passed over the road before them. Everything sparkled with the sun shining on the snow, and the frost was dropping from the trees and bushes along the roadway. 'The air was crisp and sharp. The bells on the harness jingled, and the horses sent out jets of steam from their nostrils as they trotted along. The crunch of snow under their feet made a pleasant sound. She wished Mama could have come along for the ride, but she had said: "My goodness! I have so many things to do. We will make the cookies when you come back. We need raisins and coconut from Mr. Kruger's store." Margaret thought all of the nice things were coming in one day. Mama always let her cut the cookies and choose the different shaped cutters. Sometimes she let her put on the raisins to make the eyes and buttons on the gingerbread men. Then she could select the nicest looking ones to hang on the Christmas tree. Christmas was going to be such fun. When the sleigh drew up in front of Mr. Kruger's store, Ross jumped 818 out and tied the horses to the hitching post. Mr. Haskell helped Margaret from the sleigh, and they walked into the warm and pleasant smelling interior of the general store. The change from the frosty air outside and the warmth inside made Margaret's face tingle. 'The glare of the sun on the early morning snow made the store seem dark by comparison. "Morning, Haskell." Mr. Kruger's bellowing voice sounded from somewhere in the rear. He emerged from behind a pile of sacked sugar, wiping his hands on his apron. "Good morning, Mr. Haskell. Hello, Ross and Margaret." Miss Callie Bronson spoke from behind the counter, where she was moving the piles of overalls to make room for the new Christmas merchandise. "What can I do for you?" she asked. Miss Callie was a little woman who seldom smiled, but Margaret thought she was quite pretty. "Good morning, Miss _ Callie, Mr. Kruger." Papa was saying. "Ross and Margaret are here to do their Christmas shopping. If you will fill this list for my wife, they can look around while I go over to the feed store and the post office." Margaret did not hear what else her father was saying, for she had begun moving about the store. Now that her eyes had become accustomed to the light inside there were so many things to see. Ross had long since gone over to the far side in the tools and hardware. She could not see why he always went over there when there were so many RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 other things to see in Mr. Kruger's store. She stood looking at the neckties hanging from the rack on the counter. She thought the yellow one, with the small brown emblem, would be nice for Papa. She hoped that Ross would not want to buy another hammer for him. She walked about looking at all of the new and unusual things. HERE were toys, dolls, and bicycles, tree ornaments, and the Christmas cards, a cardboard Santa Claus with cotton whiskers, pointing down to a huge barrel of Christmas candies, more kinds of nuts than she had ever seen before, and the largest oranges. Mr. Kruger's store never looked more inviting or more crowded with things. Once again she wished Mama were here to help her decide what to buy, but she would have to do it herself. So she moved about to see what she could buy for Mama. The handkerchiefs were pretty, and She liked the gloves, especially the green ones. But they would likely cost too much money. On top of a show case was a flowered box, with small drawers like her mother's bureau. She reached up to pull out one of the drawers to see what was inside, when Miss Callie spoke. "You must not touch things, Margaret, if you want to see something I will show you." Margaret had forgotten all about Miss Callie, who was still busy back of the counter. She walked over, opening the three little drawers, showing the writing paper inside. "Thank you," said Margaret. "The price is seventy-five cents. LITTLE BLUE BAG Do you like that?" asked Miss Callie. "Oh! Yes!" Margaret spoke excitedly, "but I don't know if Ross will like it." Miss Callie moved back to her work. Once again Margaret looked about at the things in the show cases. 'There were several necklaces and such pretty scarves. Then she saw the little blue bag. It was as blue as the ice on the pond where she and Ross went skating. About three inches high, with a blue cord for a drawstring, with real tassels. She stooped down to see it from the underneath side of the glass shelf in the showcase. The bottom was a small oval mirror, about the size of a dollar. She was trying to read the price on it, when Miss Callie spoke again. "Margaret, please do not lean against the showcase. You will smudge the glass." Margaret stood up quickly. She had not been able to see the price. How she would love to have the little blue bag. She did not know just why, for she had no idea what she could do with it. It was hardly large enough to hold anything, she would have trouble even putting in her handkerchief. She wondered if she would have enough money to buy it for herself and still buy the other presents. Then she remembered the harmonica for Ross. He and Papa played together, and Ross had broken his harmonica and Margaret had planned to buy another one for him. She knew where the harmonicas were, for Mr. Kruger always kept them in the same place. She walked over and picked up the one 819 she wanted. Taking it to Miss Callie, she asked, "Would you please wrap this for me, so Ross won't see ead Miss Callie dropped the harmonica into a paper bag, just as Ross came up. "Hey, Marg, I've found the keenest thing for Mom. It's a new kind of a can opener. And there's a swell set of small wrenches for." "No! I won't buy that for Mama!" Margaret's voice trembled and the tears came. "I just won't buy that for Mama." "Gee! Marg! Don't cry!" Ross looked up, embarrassed, at Miss Callie. She patted Margaret on the shoulder comfortingly. "Margaret has picked out what she would like for your mother." As Miss Callie spoke, she walked down the aisle, picking up the flowered box of stationery. "That! Girl's have the craziest notions!" Ross shrugged. "But if you're going to cry about it, guess you can have your way. But we'll have to buy the wrenches for Dad." Margaret, still clutching the money in the corner of her handkerchief, wiped her nose. 'They counted out their money, and Miss Callie began wrapping the gifts selected. (NCE again Margaret walked back to the showcase and looked longingly at the little blue bag. Once again she squatted down to see the mirror in the bottom. She pressed her nose up against the glass. Then, remembering what Miss Callie had said, she stood up quickly. Her nose made a smudge, so she tried to rub it off with her 820 mittened hand. It did not matter now how much it cost, for she had spent her money on the Christmas gifts. She was still looking at the bag when her father came back into time store. "Got the groceries about ready, Haskell," Mr. Kruger called out. "No hurry, Kruger," came the cheery response, "got to get a tree." Ross had been looking at the Christmas trees. Now he moved them in turn, as his father surveyed each from a distance. "What do you think of that one, Margaret?" "That's nice, Papa. It's so big and smells so good." Mr. Haskell paid for the groceries, carried out one of the boxes, Mr. Kruger the other. In the sleigh were sacks of feed and a huge box from the mail-order house. Margaret remembered helping her mother select things from the catalogue, but she did not think it would take such a large box to hold them. Mr. Haskell put in the groceries and Margaret's packages and covered everything with the tarpaulin. Ross anchored the Christmas tree on top. Margaret was silent on the trip home. She was ashamed that she had wanted to spend some of her Christmas money on herself. She did not listen to what Papa and Ross were saying, for she was thinking about the gifts she had bought and about the little blue bag. A spicy aroma assailed them as they opened the kitchen door at home. Mrs. Haskell lifted out a crisp doughnut from the black iron kettle and placed it on the cooling rack. Ross said, "Gee! Mom!" and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 helped himself to the sugared doughnuts in the half-filled earthen crock. The cookie dough was rolled out on the floured board waiting for the cookie cutters. "How was the shopping trip?" asked Mrs. Haskell. "Great." Ross had his mouth full of doughnut. "But Marg has the nuttiest...." "Just fine, Mama.' Margaret spoke at the same time, "but Ross never likes what I." They both laughed. The parents, understandingly, smiled at each other. Later on, when the last cookie was in the oven, and the earthen crock was filled with doughnuts, Mrs. Haskell brought up the shopping trip again. "Did you see anything in Mr. Kruger's store that you would like for yourself?" she asked Margaret. "There was a." Margaret hesitated. She had almost mentioned the little blue bag. But she did not want Mama to know how selfish she had been in wanting to spend part of her money on_ herself. "...$0 many things for you, that I couldn't decide. Lots of things cost too much money. I hope you will like this....'" Margaret stopped just in time. Mrs. Haskell, embracing her daughter, laughed. "I'm sure that I will." HE next two days passed quickly. Margaret hurried through her homework so that she could string the popcorn and the cranberries to trim the Christmas tree. She made colored paper chains to add to the decorations. The metal candle holders held tiny colored candles, LITTLE BLUE BAG but they could only be lighted on Christmas Eve, and then only for a short period at a time under Papa's supervision. Margaret had wrapped the gifts in pretty paper her mother had given her, and had placed them under the tree while the candles were burning. Mrs. Haskell added a few gaily wrapped packages of her own. She always made a new dress for Margaret at Christmas time and shirts and knitted sox or gloves for her menfolk. Margaret thought how pretty everything looked in the flickering candlelight. "That's the finest looking tree we've ever had. My two girls have done themselves proud." Mr. Haskell put a shovelful of coal in the pot-bellied stove, then sat down in his easy chair. Margaret sat on a footstool at his feet, her back to the stove, staring dreamily at the Christmas tree. 'The preparation for Christmas had been as much fun as Christmas would be. "Play something, Papa," Margaret asked. Mr. Haskell picked up his harmonica and tapped it in the palm of his hand. He played up and down the scale and into a chorus of "My Darling Nellie Gray." Ross repeated the same routine with his own harmonica, but the broken reed prevented his playing. Margaret was so glad that she had remembered to buy a new harmonica for him, and could hardly refrain from telling him so. "Time for bed, sleepy head." Mrs. Haskell rose from her chair, stroked Margaret's long brown hair and kissed her forehead. "Morning will come early tomorrow." 821 Morning did come early. It was hardly daylight when Margaret awoke. She slipped her flannel robe over her nightgown, put on her slippers, and went down the stairs. Mr. Haskell had stirred up the embers in the stove and it was red hot. "Merry Christmas, Papa." "Merry Christmas, Margaret. How is my little girl this fine morning?" His eyes twinkled, the corners of his mouth turned up, and he winked at her ever so slightly with his left eye. "Oh! Papa!" Margaret exclaimed, as she looked at the Christmas tree, "Tt's just beautiful." She had picked up the doll as her mother came down the stairs. Margaret had thought she was almost too big for a doll, but she was glad to have this one, for she really enjoyed playing with dolls occasionally. This was her best and likely her last doll. "Oh! Mama! It's beautiful," Margaret repeated. "This is the best Christmas of all." "T'm so glad," her mother smiled, "T think so, too." Ross came bounding down the stairs, two or three steps at a time, his "Merry Christmas" and "When do we eat?" almost in unison. Margaret stood enthralled by the things under the tree. 'Then she saw the little blue bag. It hung on the tip end of one of the branches, about half way up on the tree. This time she did not have to stoop down to see the mirror in the bottom. 'This time she did not need to look for the price tag. For the card on the bottom tread From Ross. Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, November 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN or ALL NATIONS" INTERESTING LETTERS FROM NAUVOO — to Mrs. Emma S. Woodruff: Dear Mother: This has been a most interesting day for Asahel and myself. The day has been sunny and beautiful. The chrysanthemums, some few roses and many other beautiful flowers arc still untouched by the frost, lending their assistance in making the landscape almost perfect. We visited a great number of the former homes of the Saints, including father's, Uncle Smoot's and the lot where your house stood, President Joseph Smith's, President Young's, President Taylor's, President Snow's, Heber C. Kimball's and many others. We also visited the Temple block, where you used to take grandfather's dinner to him when he was at work on the Temple. We walked through the lane south of where you used to live, and fancied we could see you tripping light-heartedly along the same lane.... — Affectionately Your Son, Abraham O. Woodruff house standing on a commanding eminence and secured a splendid view of the city stretched out beneath, the river in its splendid sweep around three sides, Montrose THANKSGIVING Great Father kind, we thank Thee for light of sun, The privilege to dwell upon this earth, For everything which Thou for us hast done Since through Thy mercy we were given birth. Ah, how can we our gratitude e'er show, For all Thy many blessings here below.... — Ellis R. Shipp have the material, educational and social comforts of life been so abundantly and universally bestowed as during the year now drawing to its close; nor has the promise and potency of the future seemed so fraught with every earthly blessing. 1 therefore recommend that the people of this State in their places of worship and at their homes, observe with reverent joy, and with uplifted hearts and with the wide extended hands of good fellowship this Thanksgiving day.... — Heber M. Wells — By the Governor RELIEF SOCIETY MEETING IN THE FOURTEENTH WARD, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH: Sister Phebe Y. Beatie addressed the sisters in behalf of Sister Emma Empey concerning the class of nurses that would commence the first of November, spoke of the benefit to be derived from being a nurse, the good they could do, and what a help they would be to the Bishops... In being able to know where to g0 for help in case of sickness; she urged the sisters to take an interest in the class... - — Amelia Wadrop, Sec. 822 = Oo HE DOWAGER MARCHIONESS of Reading was the keynote speaker at an All-Woman's Conference at the University of Utah, September 7-8, the theme of which was "The Changing Role of Women in Our Changing Society." Lady Reading is a member of the House of Lords and also chairman of the Women's Volunteer Service of Britain, an effective civil defense and social welfare organization. As one of the world's foremost advocates of volunteer service, the courage of her conviction carried to her large audience at the Conference, as she told them, "The ultimate strength of a nation lies in the character of the men and women who are that nation, and voluntary service is an integral part of that character. Peace will not be won, nor posterity saved, by the genius of the few, but by the devotion and faithfulness of the very, very many." M RS. ROBERTA WOHLSTETTER is the author of Pearl Harbor: Warning and Decision (Stanford University Press). It has been called by Samuel Eliot Morrison "the best book by far" on Pearl Harbor. Mrs. Wohlstetter completed five years of intensive research on her subject. EVERAL American women air pilots — especially noted trophy winners Miss Jerry Cobb and Jacqueline Cochran, and also Mrs. Philip Hart, mother of eight children, are very eager to be permitted to prepare for entering the field of space flying. Jerry Cobb, from Bethany, Oklahoma, was the first woman to complete the full battery of physical tests by which the seven Mercury astronauts were selected. She also completed the psychological tests. OMEN scientists working on the ground on space problems in the United States, are Helen P. Mann, analyzing missile tracking systems; Jean Keown, doing research on developing space food from algae; Doris M. Willis, a grandmother and a world-famed automatic controls expert; Marcia M. Neugebauer, who worked on an experiment for interplanetary probe; Sheila Wimdall, aeronautical engineer, working on a Massachusetts Institute of Technology design project. MB: ELEANOR P. SHEPPARD, a fifty-four year old grandmother, is the first woman mayor in the 180-year history of Richmond, Virginia. Her official title is "Madam Mayor." 823 EDITORIAL NOVEMBER 1962 Relief Society Gives Thanks for New Members ELIEF Society has great cause for rejoicing! At this time of year when hearts and minds are given to thanksgiving and a recounting of blessings, Relief Society counts its many blessings in the form of approximately twenty thousand new members. New members come into the organization bringing gifts, gifts of eager interest and contagious enthusiasm. They bring new vigor and a willingness to participate. Added strength is given the organization in spirit as well as numbers by the new members who thirst to be a vital part of a living, growing, serving society. New members must be made to feel pride in the great traditions of Relief Society and to recognize the value of keeping traditions alive. Pioneer women kept their culture and refinement in spite of the hardships of frontier life. They did not bow to expediency, live only for the moment, or let privation dictate a lowering of standards. Beauty lived with them and was made part of their environment by ingenious use of whatever was available. Their 824 talents were not allowed to be buried by adversity. 'This proud tradition has been a moving force throughout the years of the existence of Relief Society. Should the new members ask the meaning of Relief Society and what its values are, the answer would, of necessity, be long. It cannot be stated in one sentence. Like a jewel, it has many facets, all contributing to its beauty and value; facets which diffuse their light and radiance and bring joy to the beholder. The true meaning of Relief Society lies in the fact that it ls a divinely instituted society, established for women by an_ inspired Prophet of God, through which they may serve and learn to live abundantly. It is apparent in the reasons for its organization and the purposes and goals of its programs, procedures, and activities. The true meaning lies in the position Relief Society holds and _ its influence upon the women of the Church, as well as those not of the Church, who have found affiliation beneficial and desirable. Leadership and ability to magnify those who are Alberta H. Christensen Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larse Edith P. Backman' e B. Stoddard Winniefred 5. ~ W. Peterson Manwaring M. Young Elna P. Haymond. Bay Annie M. Elisworth called to positions in the society are facets of its greatness. 'The fact that this organization of the mothers. Of the Church stands side by side with the Priesthood of the Church, a helpmate to the Priesthood in the sacred responsibility of furthering the work of the Lord, is evidence of its worth. The true meaning of Relief Society is a measure of its refining influence upon the women, their spiritual aura, gracious dignity, and poise; making of them cultured women, discriminating, discerning women, selfless and loving, friendly women. Its numerous activities fulfill the needs of women for spiritual enlightenment and education. Devotion to the principles of the gospel, dedication to keeping the commandments of the Father, love and willingness to give of themselves, characterize members of Relief Society. The true meaning of Relief Society is exemplified in the homes, in well-taught children, in honored husbands, in homes whose spiritual environments are beautiful. Latterday Saint homes receiving its teachWealtha S. Mendenhall Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel S. Cannon Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Fanny §. Kienitz ings and the enlarged vision it gives of righteous living are happier. The true meaning of Relief Society lies in work — splendid work — wholehearted, purposeful, dedicated work. It is shown in the joy it shares, the cherishing, tender watchcare it gives, and the spirit of compassion that fills the hearts of its members. The true meaning of Relief Society and its ultimate aim are seen in the knowledge it imparts and the testimonies it strengthens of the divinity of the Savior and the mission of the Prophet Joseph Smith. The true meaning of Relief Society is sisterhood, world-wide as well as next-door-neighbor _ sisterhood, which reaches out to embrace those whom its extended arms may enfold. This wonderful group of new members is received with heartfelt thanksgiving. In praise and gratitude to our Heavenly Father we welcome them to the organization of his choice daughters. —L. W. M. 825 In Memoriam—Fern Tanner Lee November 14, 1896 — September 24, 1962 T was with saddened hearts that Relief Society sisters throughout the world learned of the passing of Fern 'Tanner Lee, wife of Elder Harold B. Lee of the Council of the Twelve. She died on Monday, September 24, 1962, in Salt Lake City, after being in ill health for the past few months. Heartfelt tributes were paid to her at her funeral, and the profuse and lovely pastel-colored flowers and beautiful and moving musical selections typified the love of Sister Lee for all things beautiful. President McKay praised her lovely, noble character, her tenderness and vet her strength to meet the trials of life; President Moyle pointed out how Sister Lee had inspired her husband all the way in their married life and that they two would always be seen as one. Bishop Richard S. 'Tanner, a nephew of Sister Lee, gave glimpses of her family life and the outstanding Church services of her forebears. Luacine Clark Fox paid tribute to her for her devotion and loyalty as a wife, her inspiring teachings as the mother of two daughters and grandmother of ten, and her valued services to the women of the Church, both young and older. Relief Society members throughout most of the world have had the privilege of meeting with Sister Lee and will recall her graciousness, refinement, and quiet helpfulness as she accompanied Elder Lee on his important Church assignments when, sometimes, her own health was not robust. Everywhere she exemplified wifely devotion, cheerfulness, and a forgetfulness of self. The General Presidency of Relief Society will miss her counsel and assistance in matters on which she has rendered service to Relief Society. Prayers of faith and comfort in behalf of Elder Lee and his family will be offered by Relief Society members everywhere at the passing of his dearly beloved wife, Fern. In Memoriam—Amy Whipple Evans December 15, 1871 — September 6, 1962 MY Whipple Evans, a former member of the General Board of Relief Society, died September 6, 1962, in Denver, Colorado. A woman of outstanding spiritual and intellectual gifts, she served Relief Society as a General Board member for eighteen years (1921-1939). She was for a number of years supervisor of the social service department of Relief Society. In appreciation for her service in this field of social work, a fellowship in her honor was established at the University of Utah. Talented and beautiful, she was a woman who offered her time and energy for the upbuilding of Church and community, and to the instruction and inspiration of the women of Zion. 826 First Snow Dorothy J. Roberts No snow lies like this first snow on the land. Bach twig and dry stalk clings tenaciously To crystal blossoms falling everywhere; White fingers gesture from the pinion tree. No ledge is left unlined with luminance; No form remains forgotten or undraped. Each pole is turbaned with an ermine crown, Each leafless weed magnificently shaped. The first snow lettered on the land, Virginal, a symphony in white.... Winter wears the face of innocence And purity has clothed the world tonight. Ch ry Sa nth emums. Evelyn Fjeldsted am Ve EH y The brightness of the flower world, one ot Is waning in the autumn chill. Top AM A postlude wondertime returns, ANG Wy To gardens now so calm and still. Y Brave, earthly flower stars unnoticed, YW Until blossom colors flare their call, /] LZ To keep a rendezvous with time, — Af 11x Where garden leaves begin to fall. Z Other flower scenes have all been shown. A wild perfume drifts through the air. And, like the prairie sage, it seems, / | So cool, so wonderful and rare. And this is fall chrysanthemums; Pastels released when autumn comes. Remembering Sorrow Blanche Kendall McKey I had a crushing sorrow once— When I was very young; And life has never spoken since In quite so gay a tongue. I've laughed at many a passing wound— A half a score or so— But in the shadowed realm of tears My soul bows low. And yet on this Thanksgiving Eve, In counting how I'm blest, I think the wisdom born of sorrow Outshines all the rest! 827 on re Me o Grapefruit Edmot Menu for Tomato Aspic Salad e eo Turkey With Rice Dressin} Tha ca rake Seyi bag C; With vsirooms | Cabbage Slaw ED sD Fa er Stuffed Zucchini Bran Bread Mary J. Wilson Cranberry Fluff Former Member, General Board of. Relief Society Pumpkin Pie Courtesy American Institute of Baking Hot Water Pie Crust 72 ¢. Boiling water 1% tsp. Salt 1 c. Shortening 2 rounded c. Flour 1 level tsp. Baking powder In 1 pt. Measuring cup put % c. Boiling water. Add shortening, putting in 1 tbsp. At a time until water and shortening measure 1% cups. Beat while melting. Add dry ingredients. Put into refrigerator to get very cold before rolling out for baking. Pumpkin Pie Filling 1% c. Mashed pumpkin 1 c. Brown sugar 2 eggs, slightly beaten 1 c. Evaporated milk 72 tsp. Salt tsp. Ginger tsp. Cinnamon tsp. Melted butter c. Half and half (milk and cream mixed) ee ee Mix well and pour into unbaked pie shell. Bake in 450° oven for 10 minutes, then lower heat to 350° to finish baking until set. Makes 2 small pies. Frozen Pumpkin Pie To Make Ahead of Time 7" \b. Marshmallows A tsp. Ginger 1 can mashed pumpkin (3% c.) "4 tsp. Salt 1 tsp. Cinnamon 1 c. Whipping cream Heat and stir marshmallows, pumpkin, cinnamon, ginger, and salt, until mixed and melted. Cool 1 hour. Whip cream and stir into pumpkin gradually. Pour into baked pie shells and freeze uncovered. Wrap and store. Thaw for 4o minutes at room temperature, then unwrap and serve. 'These pies may be made days ahead of time. Cut and Paste Christmas Cards" Janet W. Breeze Here's a family-type Yuletide activity that stands up and says, "Start me early!" Making your own greeting cards can be fun as well as satisfying, in the rapidly growing commercialized world in which we live — and it is easy, too! Choose one of the following or try them all. One word of caution before you run for the scissors and glue. Be sure to purchase or decide on the size envelopes you intend to use FIRST — or you may end up making those as well. Colored construction paper will be your basic material, along with colored India ink for writing the inscription of your choosing. Just remember that a light-colored ink shows up better on dark blue or red paper. Other materials in addition to scissors and glue, are listed separately with each of the individual card designs. 832 MATERIALS 1. Red paper for card and letter cutouts; white paper for background cutouts, on which letters are glued; green rickrack; and small green, silver, or gold gummed stars. MATERIALS 2. Dark blue, red, or green paper for card; gummed loose-leaf paper reinforcements to form tree; a strip of white paper for the trunk; and colored ink (preferably same color as card) for writing "Merry ChristMl mas" on trunk. MATERIALS 3. Colored paper for card; large gold or silver gummed star plus matching metallic ribbon or paper strip for trunk; pinking shears; and contrasting colored paper for tree, which is glued to card by two side edges only. MATERIALS 4. Green construction paper for card; two lines old sheet music; silver or gold metallic paper for bell and knocker; and red ribbon or paper tape pinched to shape for bow. MATERIALS 5. Light blue paper, with window cut out for card; dark blue paper for reindeer cut-out silhouettes (traced from an old card); white poster paint (applied to wet paper) for ground snow and splattered over inside reindeer scene for falling snow; red or silver glitter for outside window border. 833 Out of the Wilderness CHAPTER 5 Shirley Thulin Synopsis: Marian Morgan, a widow and mother of six children, has come to Montana to supervise assessment work on the mining property owned by the family. In the mountain wilderness, Marian and her family meet Jake Hadley, the owner of an adjacent mine, whom they distrust, and whose offers of friendship they fear. HE early sun filled the room TT and awakened Marian. She dressed quietly and went outside. She had come to enjoy the short morning walk to the well, things were so special then. 'The leaves on the trees and the shrubs were bright green and shiny, still damp with dew. 'The air was refreshing, with just a hint of the night still in it. Marian had begun to feel as though this hour were hers alone, and each day on the way to fill her bucket, she walked along the small stream and watched the merry little ripples dance and bubble. 'Today she knelt on the bank of the stream and cupped her hands to fill them with water. The coolness of it made her shiver as she splashed handful after handful on her face. This ought to be good for my complexion, she smiled to herself. Though she knew there were elements in it that made it unsafe for drinking, it felt good on her face. 834 The stream ran from the mine on down to the creek. Marian looked deep within the water and wondered if long ago, men with stubby beards and eager hearts had panned for gold here. She looked at the flowers that bloomed along the stream and up the side of the mountain, as though they were friends. She liked to imagine they had been planted for her enjoyment alone. Now and then, a shrill call from one bird and the scolding reply from others made her smile. It was as though one bird thought it his duty to awaken the entire bird kingdom and wasn't too well thanked for his efforts. On the little hill where the well was, Marian stopped and looked at the land around her. It is beautiful here, she thought, and peaceful. She looked at the rugged slopes of the mountains that suddenly jutted out here and there from within the dense tree covering. And everywhere varied shades of green carpeted the ground. 'The steep mountaintops reigned above, reaching their heads into an intense blue sky, where white clouds floated like puffs of whipped cream. Now the sun was turning the yel- OUT OF THE WILDERNESS lows to orange and the blues to purple. Another day had begun. Marian let the bucket deep down within the shadowy depths of the well, and then drank of the clear cold water, before starting back to the cabin. "Mother," Jim met her as she came near, "I was going to go for water." "That's all right, I enjoy doing it." "Let's give Spotty some in his can, before we take it inside." "Spotty? Is that the name you finally decided on?" Jim laughed. "The kids all wanted me to name him Bambi, but I held out for something different. See his spots?" Jim closed the door of the pen behind him and went over to the little deer. "Hi, little fellow. Look, Mom, he acts glad to see me. He looks as though he would like to wag his tail." "If he were a dog, and if he had a big enough tail," Marian laughed. "TIL have to gather some more fresh brush. He sure eats a lot. I wish. We had some hay." "Maybe we can get Dick to bring him some. We'll ask him when he comes Saturday." "Do baby deer eat hay?" Tommy asked, coming towards them. "Sometimes they will, but mostly they eat leaves and soft twigs." "Jim, Spotty looks lonesome. Let's go find him a playmate," Tommy suggested. "Let's find him two playmates," said Jill, joining them. "No more deer." Marian picked "One is going to keep us "Tll be his playmate then," Jill said. "I'll play with him." Jim came out of the pen and closed it. "I'll have to fix that door 835 better. The wire hinges aren't too sturdy, and neither is the latch." ORNING comes early in the mountains, and it was still an early hour when Jim filled his pockets with roofing tacks and climbed up the ladder with the first roll of tarpaper. "What can I do to help?" Marian asked him. "Just stand by to hand me things," he told her. "And be ready to catch me if I start falling." He laughed. "Jim! That's not funny." Marian looked at the steep slope of the cabin roof. "You hang on tight and be real careful." "What's Jim up there for?" 'Tommy wanted to know. "He's going to fix the roof, dear. Now you go in and eat your breakfast." "All right. Milk for me." "For me, too," said Jill. "Tl be right back Jim. I'd better help Sue get the children settled." Marian gave the oatmeal a vigorour stir and filled the pitcher with the milk she had mixed from the white powder the night before. She was filling the bowls when she heard it. A rumble, and a scraping noise on the roof, then a yell from Jim. Marian closed her eyes, and without realizing it, waited for the sickening thud. When it didn't come, she ran outside and saw that he had caught himself when he got to the chimney. "Jim, are you all right?" "T think so. My wrist feels funny, though." Jim rubbed his arm, then sat still for a moment. Come and pour the 836 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 "We'd better get someone to do it, Jim, don't you think." But Marian didn't finish the sentence. Jim scrambled back up to the top and began to unroll the tarpaper with such a definite purpose, she knew she had to let him do it himself or find out that he couldn't. "Mom, can you send one of the twins up? I could use someone to help me unroll this. It's heavy." Marion thought for a moment. To have to worry about one of the children behaving like a human fly was all she could stand. "Ill come up,' she said. She was used to climbing ladders. She had always helped David clean the wallpaper in their home, but she soon found out that climbing on the top of roofs was something else. She cautiously edged herself up onto the roof, and then could go no farther. She was so frightened, that she just sat there. "Come on, Mom. Crawl on up, it isn't bad once you're up here." "T I can't, Jim. It's too high." "Well, then go back down and get Jed," he told her, but she couldn't do that either. 'The cabin seemed to be spinning one way and the ground the other. She couldn't make her feet reach out to find the ladder and she couldn't look down. The children were all watching her now, and Jim was calling directions to her. "Just turn over on your stomach and start to crawl, Mother." GHE didn't move. "Mom, come back down,' Sue urged. "You look funny," Jill told her. "Just a minute, I'll come and help you." Jim made his way down the roof and passed her onto the ladder. He took hold of her and helped her put her feet on the top rung. Now she was able to make her way down, one step at a time, until she finally felt the earth beneath her feet. Her knees were weak, and her head in a whirl. "Please, Mother, don't try anything like that again," Sue scolded. "You scared us," Jim added. "Let me go up," Ted said, and was halfwav up before she could find her voice to protest. Jed went up, too. "Mommy," Jill said, and started to brush Marian's clothing with both her little hands, "you're all dirty." "You better stay down here with us," 'Tommy said, and Marian was only too glad to do just that. She watched the three boys work with the tarpaper to get it started right, and had to admit to herself they were efficient. Soon the tapping of Jim's hammer made her feel confident and she relaxed. She climbed the ladder again and again, handing them more tacks, and when their work brought them near the edge of the roof, she could reach from the ladder and help. The morning wore on, and when noon approached, she went inside to prepare some lunch. "We have done nearly half of it," Jim said, coming in to wash. "That's wonderful, son. I am so proud of you." While Jim was eating, Marian noticed that he was using only his left hand, his right one rested in his lap. OUT OF THE WILDERNESS "My wrist bent the wrong way when I slipped," he explained. "It's all right, though." "Are you sure?" "Now, stop worrying, I'm fine." After lunch the boys went back up the ladder, and Marian helped Sue with the dishes, then laid Jill on the bed and tucked her in. "Keep an eye on Tommy, and listen for Jill to wake," Marian told Sue, and though her weary body felt more like joining Jill in her nap than climbing ladders, she knew she couldn't stay away from the project. After the pulling, hammering, smoothing and fitting, the tarpaper was all in place, and the day was nearly over. Marian wished for her tile tub and gallons of hot water, but knew that was a luxury she would have to do without. She would heat the two buckets of water and pour them in the round tin tub, as she had heard her grandmother describe, and they would all have an old-fashioned scrubbing. 'Tm going to remember these tired muscles every time it rains." Jim smiled. "I will be very thankful for your good, hard work every time we listen to the rain on the roof," Marian told him. NCE inside, Marian noticed how quiet everything was. "Where are the children?" she asked of no one in particular. She went out and around to the back of the cabin, but could see no one. "Sue," she called, and then she saw Tommy and Sue on a little hill, They both turned when they heard her. "Come here." Marian's voice was full of apprehension, for she could not see Jill with them. When they 837 came closer, Marian asked where the baby was. "Tsn't she still asleep?" asked Sue. "We went for a walk," Tommy said. Marian dashed into the house. Jill was not in the bed. The blanket was in a little heap, and Marian knew she had wandered outside. "She's gone. Oh, Jim, she's been gone for some time, she doesn't usually sleep very long." They began to look, calling her name over and over, peering into the shed, and behind the trees. Then the search widened. Jim and Jed climbed a tree so they could see over larger areas, but there was no sign of the little girl, Dread and deep despair gripped Marian's heart. In the wilderness, how far could a three-year-old stray? Or, then again, she could be but a few feet away, and she couldn't be seen, the trees were so thick and the underbrush so dense. Jim ran to the well, and Marian was close behind him. They decided it was too high and steep for her to have climbed up the boards and fallen in, though they weren't sure... Couldn't be really sure. Jim touched his mother's arm. "Don't worry, Mother, we'll find hem His concern for her started the tears, and the hot sting of them punctuated her helplessness. 'They went back to the cabin. "Mom, Jim... Spotty's gone, too!" Sue ran to meet them. "His pen is wide open and he's gone." "Jill must have gone in to play with him," Jim said, "and left the door open." "And when he went out, she followed," Marian guessed. 838 Marian told the twins, Sue and Tommy, to stay near the cabin. "We don't want anyone else to get lost," she told them. She stood, trying to decide which way to go. "Let's follow along the stream," Jim suggested. "All right." Marian took one step before something made her turn and look at Sue. There was hurt in Sue's face, and her eyes evaded Marian's. "Sue, oh, Sue, dear." "Tt's all my fault. If I had stayed by the cabin.... If I'd have watched the door." "Please, dear, don't blame yourself. We all should have watched." "But, Mother, if we don't find her oh, Mother." "Sue, we will find her... We've got to. Now, take care of the boys until we get back." Marian hoped her words would convey the confidence she did not feel. She turned and caught up with Jim. HEY followed one path after another, calling Jill. They went up one ridge after another where they could look over the land, but all they could see was treetops. 'They couldn't see the ground. New fear came over Marian as she realized there would not be much more daylight. Maybe a couple of hours, she thought, if that much. And the terror, the hopeless thought of her baby somewhere all alone in the forest in the night, made her temples throb and her body feel limp all over. If only David were here, she thought. He would know nght RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 where to look. Or if only she had listened to Charles and not come! She felt so alone, the words of Charles Neering, her friend at home, kept coming back to her, "You need?? Someone. Suddenly all her hatred for the mountains came surging back into her breast. Every tree, every blade of grass was her enemy. Her eyes were full of hot tears, and she was stumbling along trying to keep up with Jim. "jill! Oh, Jill, where are you?" she called over and over. Then with a depressing weariness, she slumped to sit on a huge rock. "Jim, we can't find her alone. It's going to be dark soon. What can we do?" Jim was silent, and Marian knew his words could not come out past the worry in him. "How far is it to the Silver Bear?" "Just over that hill. The road goes right past our mine. Shall I go for help?" "Yes, Jim. We'll need the men. They know the land. Go quickly, Jim." As he started up the path that lead to the road, Marian knew she could not stay behind. "Wait, Jim," she called, "wait." She ran to catch up with him, and then her words of a minute before came back to her. We can't find her alone. "Jim," she said aloud, "we are going for help in the wrong direction." Jim looked at his mother and knew what she meant. The two of them knelt in prayer. There, high in the mountains, Marian asked for help in finding her baby. (To be continued) = jFROM THE FIELD General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Timpanogos Stake (Utah), Manila Ward Achieves One Hundred Per Cent Attendance at Visiting Teachers Meeting, May 1, 1962 Front row, seated, left to rght: Cora W. Atwood, supervisor; Geneve Dalton, supervisor; Jessie R. Wadley, supervisor; Jeanette W. Warnick, supervisor; Fern E. Nielson, visiting teacher message leader, Timpanogos Stake Relief Society; Gertrude M. Richards, President, Timpanogos Stake Relief Society; Effie W. Adams, President, Manila Ward Relief Society; Leah W. Robinson, First Counselor, Gwen S. Unthank, Second Counselor; Margaret Jeppson, Secretary-Treasurer. Sister Richards reports: "At our visiting teachers convention held January 26th this year, we called attention to the picture at the bottom of page 44 in the January issue of the Magazine, entitled "'Nebo Stake (Utah), Payson Fourth Ward Achieves One Hundred Per Cent Attendance at Visiting Teacher Meeting, April 1961." <A challenge was offered the Relief Societies of Timpanogos Stake to equal this achievement. Manila Ward accepted the challenge, and at their May meeting one hundred per cent of their visiting teachers were present. Manila Ward Relief Society has a membership of 103 — the largest enrollment in Timpanogos Stake. There are fifty-two visiting teachers, two alternates, and four supervisors. We feel that this achievement is a reflection of good leadership and loyal membership in the Manila Ward Relief Society. The result of the effort put forth to attain this goal is being felt in increased interest and activity." 839 SrapRie Sees § a NOTES FROM THE FIELD 841 St. George East Stake (Utah) Relief Society Social Honors Visiting Teachers January 1962 Seated at the second table, left to right: Roma C. Esplin, President, St. George East Stake Relief Society; Alta V. McConkie, First Counselor; Elsie B. Cox, Second Counselor; Elva H. Terry, Secretary. Sister Esplin reports: "The latter part of January, the members of the St. George East Stake Relief Society honored our visiting teachers at a luncheon and program. The tables were beautifully decorated with bouquets of flowers, and at each place setting, as a favor, was a little artificial flower made in Relief Society colors. More than 225 visiting teachers, with their executive officers, attended. We were happy to have our Priesthood advisor and two of our bishops join with us. Our oldest active teacher present was eighty-six, and the youngest teacher, from the College Ward, just eighteen." American River Stake (California) Relief Society Presents Historical Display During "Open House" Week at the Stake House, October 1961 Lois S. Fife, President, American River Stake Relief Society, reports a unique display which provided much interest for visitors at the stake house: "Each organization in the stake was asked to provide a display during the week of open house at our new stake house last October. Part of our display depicted the organization of Relief Society by the Prophet Joseph Smith. We made twenty-one dolls depicting the eighteen women and three men who were present on this occasion. Leola Hacken, Work Director Counselor, made the heads and the hands for the dolls, and the other sisters helped with the bodies and the clothing. During the month of March, the birthday month of Relief Society, the scene was also on display in the stake house, where all members of the stake could see it. We also set it up for our convention, at which time we were the hostess stake. We enjoyed making this display, and it has created a great deal of interest each time we have set it up." Brazilian South Mission Relief Society Conference Curitiba, Brazil, March 15-16, 1962 Sara Paulsen, President, Brazilian South Mission Relief Society, reports: "A twoday Relief Society convention was held in the Mission Home in Curitiba. We had in attendance sixty leaders, representing all parts of the mission. 'Success depends on you — magnify your calling,' the theme of the conference, was presented by members of various branches as they gave lessons, talks, demonstrations, and other material. From reports we have received, we feel that this conference was a success, as the leaders went back to their branches with more enthusiasm and realizing better the importance of the great Relief Society work. "The picture is of the pageant given in commemoration of the 120th anniversary of the organization of Relief Society. The pageant was held in our new chapel and was presented under the theme 'Relief Society magnified in my life.' "' NOTES FROM THE FIELD _ 843 Front row, seated, left to right: Duella Victor; Phyllis Wiscombe; Norma Reeder; Karen Wright; Lucy Coppin; Grace Petersen. Back row, standing, left to nght: Fay Lofthouse; Jennie M. Nielsen; L&Lia Grover; Eugenie Larkin, Magazine representative; Karen Halling; Pat Woodyatte; Betty Fish. May N. Balls, President, Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports: ""We are sure that the activity represented by this picture will be the highlight of our stake for the year 1962. The report of our being among the top ten stakes on the Magazine Honor Roll for 1961 makes us feel honored as being the only Utah stake on this list. We would like to pay honor to our stake leader, Eugenie Larkin, who was the inspiration behind this achievement." Front row, seated, left to right, beginning second from the left: district officers: Helen O. Frazier, chorister; Lucy Dettor, work meeting leader; Valenna Robins, theology class leader; Mamie Murray, visiting teacher message leader; President Richard Stoddard, Memphis District; Floy L. Stoddard, Secretary-Treasurer; Jo Ann Sayles, Education Counselor; Virgie M. Shuman, District Relief Society President; Cleo Ann Thomas, Work Director Counselor; Patricia Isbell, literature class leader; Betty Carlson, Magazine representative; Rosa Pollard, organist. Marie C. Richards, President, Gulf States Mission Relief Society, reports that this was the first visiting teacher convention to be held in the Gulf States Mission. "District Priesthood leaders were in attendance, and President Richard Stoddard stated that it was the best program ever held in the Memphis District. Sister Virgie M. Shuman was formerly the president of the Atlanta, Georgia, Stake Relief Society, and her accomplishments here in the mission are most outstanding in every phase of the program. She is the first district Relief Society president to organize a complete district Relief Society Board. "At this convention skits were presented, depicting the educational departments of Relief Society. Eighty representatives from eight Relief Societies traveled distances up to 200 miles to be present on this occasion. Service citations were presented to the visiting teachers, making an impressive highlight in this convention." Front row, seated, left to right: Norma Allred, Work Director Counselor; Aleine M. Young, member, General Board of Relief Society; Hazel G. Kitch, President, Chicago Stake Relief Society; Edith S. Elliott, member, General Board of Relief Society; Gwendolyn Swinyard, Education Counselor. Standing, left to right: Marion Monson, organist; Veldron Matheson, theology class leader; Bernice Lindsey, chorister; Naomi Graves, Secretary-Treasurer; Afton Smith, social science class leader; Marlene Jones, literature class leader; Verle Fitzsimmons, Magazine representative. Alta Connors, work meeting leader, was absent because of illness when the picture was taken. Sister Kitch reports: ""The convention was a great success. The inspiration and help received from Sister Young and Sister Elliott of the General Board will be of lasting worth to us. The Chicago Stake has fifteen wards, ten in Illinois, four in Wisconsin, and one in Indiana. Many of the sisters traveled distances of seventy-five to eighty miles one way to attend the convention. They expressed their sincere appreciation for the help they received. We are grateful for their wonderful spirit and devotion to Relief Society." 844 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 South Cottonwood Stake (Utah) Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference, May 1962 Standing in the front row, second from the right is Luella W. Finlinson, President, South Cottonwood Stake Relief Society, and next to her is chorister Maxine S. Pattison. Organist Beth L. Hendricks is seated at the console of the organ. Sister Finlinson reports: "The newly organized (December 7, 1961) South Cottonwood Stake honored the Relief Society Singing Mothers by asking them to present the music for both sessions of the May quarterly conference. Due to illness and vacations, only fifty-three of the sixty women from the six wards who had practiced in preparation, wcre able to sing for that occasion, plus Sisters Gloria Law and Vivian Howe, who assisted at the organ and violin. Counselors Momo T. Ushio and Pearalee F. DeShazer arranged for baby sitters during the practices. From thirty to fifty children were taken care of each time." Washington, D. C. Stake Relief Society Singing Mothers Present Music for Quarterly Conference, May 20, 1962 Seated, front row, center left (in dark dress), Ellen N. Barnes, chorister; seated, front row, center right (in dark dress), Nedra C. Eames, organist. Seated between Sister Barnes and Sister Eames, Marcia C. Steele, President, Washington, D. C. Stake Relief Society. Sister Steele reports: "The Singing Mothers traditionally present the music for one of the Sunday sessions of stake conference, the last two being held in historic Constitution Hall, with over 3,000 people in attendance. "On March 17, 1962, over 100 women, from thirteen wards, presented an outstanding concert in commemoration of the 120th anniversary of the organization of Relief Society. They have been asked to repeat this concert for the missionaries of the Eastern Atlantic States Mission and their contacts." Eastern Atlantic States Mission, Johnstown (Pennsylvania) Branch Relief Society Officers at Display Table During Attendance Drive April 1962 Left to right: Irene Lilly, Second Counselor; Alice Mihalcik, President; Frances Marsh, Secretary-Treasurer; Milta Aston, First Counselor of West Pennsylvania District; Emma Grace Hare, President of West Pennsylvania District. Thelma Hill, President, Eastern Atlantic States Mission Relief Society, reports that the sisters very much enjoyed this unique and well-planned attendance drive. Articles made by the Relief Society members during the year were displayed, including pillows, bags, aprons, afghans, pillowslips, and other articles, all of fine workmanship. The sisters also made the corsages which they are wearing in the picture. A covered dish supper was served. ELIZABETH WELKER COLLECTS SAMPLES OF ANTIQUE AND MODERN LACE Pv UZABETH Welker, Salt Lake City, Utah, has collected samples of lace representing fourteen different countries and many eras of history. Included are examples of Swedish hardanger, which Sister Welker made when she was fifteen years old; filet lace, in which the design is made on a foundation of net; point Venise lace, made entirely with needle and thread, and still considered the loveliest of all lace; rosepoint, used largely in making trousseaus, and the heavier gros point. Also in this beautiful collection are samples of the rare French insertion, and the less expensive bobbin lace. Sister Welker lives in Emigration Ward in Park Stake, and the ward Relief Society has been privileged many times to exhibit this unusual collection and to explain to visitors the samples of historic lace, as well as types of lace still being handmade today, such as tatting, crocheting, and netting. Sister Welker has been a Relief Society member for more than fifty years, and a class leader for thirty years. From 1934 to 1937, she was president of the Relief Society of the German-Austrian Mission, and from 1951 to 1956 she was president of the Emigration Ward Relief Society. 846 LESSON DEPARTMENT THEOLOGY e The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 45 — Talents and Testimonies Elder Roy W. Doxey \ (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Sections 60 and 62) For First Meeting, February 1963 Objective: To understand that talents are to be used in the Lord's service in testifying of his power. Introduction HE time came for the Prophet Joseph Smith and some of the brethren to leave Jackson County, Missouri. They had been there for only two months, but the foundations of Zion had been laid by dedication of the land as a gathering place for the saints, and, also, as a site for the temple. Other instructions were given concerning the people and their settling in the promised land. Instructions About Travel Several elders approached the Prophet to learn what the Lord desired of them. These elders were instructed to return to their homes in the East. (D & C 60:5.) Joseph Smith, Sidney Rigdon, Oliver Cowdery, and the others were to go to St. Louis by water, whence the brethren named were to journey to Cincinnati. The rest were to go "two by two, and preach the word, not in haste, among the congregations of the wicked" (Ibid., 60:8). "Congregations of the Wicked" Section 60 mentions "congregations of the wicked" twice. (Ibid., 60:8,13). The definition of the expression was given a few days later. While on the bank of the Missouri River en route to St. Louis, the Prophet and his party were met by some elders on their way to Jackson County. In the revelation dated August 13, 1831, these elders were told to declare the gospel to the inhabitants of the earth, or in other words, to the congregations of the wicked. (Ibid., 62:5.) "Congregations" in these revelations are not necessarily church gatherings only, but they may be. By definition of "wicked," the student of the mod- 847 848 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 ern revelations understands that they are the (1) morally corrupt and (2) those who have not accepted the fulness of the gospel. (Ibid., 35:12; 84:49-53.) | Consequently, "congregations of the wicked" are those who have not accepted the true gospel. But these people are to have an opportunity to receive the gospel either in this life or in the spirit world. (I Peter 3:18-20; 4:6; D & C 128:5.) "T Am Not Well Pleased" With the elders who had come to Missouri, the Lord was pleased, but those who lacked courage and diligence to open their mouths did not receive the same commendation. (D & C 60:1-2.) These elders had failed to exercise their talents in behalf of the Church. 'Talents are natural endowments or gifts. These talents constitute our ability to make contributions to the welfare of our fellow men, through music, poetry, drama, and other arts, in mechanics, and in the professions. Some people have talent or aptitude in leadership, organization, in speech, and in getting along with people. Since talents or gifts are natural endowments, then every person possesses them. It is also true that some people are gifted to a greater degree than others. Source of Talents Latter-day Saints are blessed with a far better understanding of themselves, their origin, and the answers to many perplexing situations in life than are those who do not believe in the gospel. Accepting the truth that we lived as intelligent beings in a pre-earth life and that we developed ourselves during those eternities, it follows that we had our "natural" endowments in that life. 'his point of view is interestingly developed in correspondence between Elder Orson F. Whitney of the Council of the Twelve and President Joseph F. Smith. In the words of Elder Whitney, we learn: Spirit Memories. —Writing one day upon the subject of spirit memories, and the influence exerted upon the affairs of this life by the awakened recollections of a former experience, I found myself indulging in the following reflections: Why are we drawn toward certain persons, and they toward us, independently of any known previous acquaintance? Is it a fact, or only a fancy, that we and they were mutually acquainted and mutually attracted in some earlier period of our eternal existence?... More than once, after meeting someone whom I had never met before on earth, I have wondered why his or her face seemed so familiar. Many times, upon hearing a noble sentiment expressed, though unable to recall having heard it until then, I have been thrilled by it, and felt as if I had always known it. The same is true of music, some strains of which are like echoes from afar, sounds falling from celestial heights, notes struck from the vibrant harps of eternity. I do not assert preacquaintance in all such cases, but as one thought suggests another, these queries arise in the mind. The Shepherd's Voice -—When_ it comes to the Gospel, I feel more positive. Why did the Savior say: "My sheep know my voice?" Can a sheep know the voice of its shepherd, if it has never heard that voice before? They who love Truth, and to whom it appeals most powerfully, were they not its best friends in a previous state of existence? I think so. I believe that we knew the Gospel before we came here, and it is this knowledge, this acquaintance, that gives to it a familiar sound. 7 LESSON DEPARTMENT Very much in the same vein, I once wrote to President Joseph F. Smith — he at the time in Utah, and I on a mission in Europe. Here is his reply: President Smith's View I heartily endorse your sentiments respecting congeniality of spirits. Our knowledge of persons and things before we came here, combined with the divinity awakened within our souls through obedience to the gospel, powerfully affects, in my opinion, all our likes and dislikes, and guides our preferences in the course of this life, provided we give careful heed to the admonitions of the Spirit. All those salient truths which come home so forcibly to the head and heart seem but the awakening of the memories of the spirit. Can we know anything here that we did not know before we came? Are not the means of knowledge in the first estate equal to those of this? I think that the spirit, before and after this probation, possesses greater facilities, aye, manifold greater, for the acquisition of knowledge, than while manacled and shut up in the prison-house of mortality. I believe that our Savior possessed a foreknowledge of all the vicissitudes through which he would have to pass in the mortal tabernacle.... If Christ knew beforehand, so did we. But in coming here, we forgot all, that our agency might be free indeed, to choose good or evil, that we might merit the reward of our own choice and conduct. But by the power of the Spirit, in the redemption of Christ, through obedience, we often catch a spark from the awakened memories of the immortal soul, which lights up our whole being as with the glory of our former home (Saturday Night Thoughts, pp. 294-296. See also, Gospel Doctrine, pp. 12-14). Among other things from the foregoing, we understand that talents were a part of ourselves in premortality, that character-traits were formed there, that abilities, such as to believe in or accept truth, are brought to this life. The great truth, 849 allowing for environmental factors here, is that we are very much the same aS we were in the pre-existence. Improve Each Moment Fach stage of our eternal existence — pre-existence, earth life, and the spirit world — is an opportunity stage to develop talents. We are here, but we are now body and spirit. The talents we bring with us must also become a part of the whole person. Our knowledge of the pre-earth life is presently gone, but the influence of that life is felt. Nevertheless, we are to take what we have and grow and develop. It is the use we make of our natural endowments that will determine whether we shall eventually be called a wise or slothful servant. Although each person is what he was in pre-existence and, thus, different from others, all have talents to use in the Lord's work. It doesn't matter what we may think of our abilities; we have ability which should be used. Parable of the Talents The Savior gave two parables that emphasize the need to develop one's talents. 'The parable of the Entrusted Talent tells of the man who gave talents (goods) to his servants. To one he gave five talents, to another two, and to the last, only one. 'The doubling of their talents by the first two brought forth the same commendation.... Well done, good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy Lord (Matt. 25:23). 850 These two servants had used their talents wisely, though they were different. But the servant who received one talent had buried it in the ground, fearful that it might be lost. The reply of the master was "... Thou wicked and slothful servant " (Ibid., verse 26; Talmage, James E.: Jesus the Christ, pp. 580- 554). Latter-day Saints may think of talents as blessings, since we have an opportunity to develop them in the Church, which provides the means for us to increase all good gifts. When we fail to take the opportunities to assist in the furthering of the Lord's work, we are Slothful servants. The Prophet Joseph Smith said:... Blessings offered, but rejected, are no longer blessings, but become like the talent hid in the earth by the wicked and slothful servant; the proffered good treturns to the giver; the blessing is _bestowed on those who will receive and occupy; for unto him that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundantly, but unto him that hath not or will not receive, shall be taken away that which he hath, or might have had (Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 257). The Gifts of the Holy Ghost Every Latter-day Saint has the privilege of receiving one or more gifts of the Holy Ghost. (D & C 46:11-12; Lesson 32, Relief Society Magazine, February 1961.) He does not know his latent talents nor the gifts of the Spirit; consequently, he must earnestly seek after the best gifts, remembering the purposes for which they are given, that he may not be deceived. If he does this, he will exert his best efforts to advance his own salvation and that of his fellow men. (D & C 46:7-10.) RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 In the case of the elders with whom the Lord was displeased because they feared man and therefore would not use their talent to preach and testify (Ibid., 60:1-2), he said: And it shall come to pass, if they are not more faithful unto me, it shall be taken away, even that which they have (Ibid., verse 3). One can believe that if these elders had courageously taught the gospel, the Lord would have sustained them as he told Joseph Smith he would uphold him against the adversary. (Ibid., 3:7-8.) He who does not develop his talents and gifts is declared by the Lord to be an idler. 'Those who were to come to Zion in 1831 were told that they should not idle away their time, nor bury their talent. (Ibid., 60:13.) The Lord Rules All scripture proclaims the truth that God is sovereign in this world. The revealed fact that God is allknowing and all-powerful, that he knows the destiny of individuals and nations, makes him supreme. It is this assurance that gives to the believer the faith to put his full trust in the ultimate victory of truth. The Lord rules among the armies of the earth, and the day will come when all men shall know of his power. (D & C 60:4.) In 1831, this truth served to bolster the courage of those who were weak in not testifying to the truth; but this ls not its only purpose, for one realizes that God shapes the destinies of man and nations. God has promised peace and prosperity to those who serve him diligently, but wrath LESSON DEPARTMENT and indignation upon those people who transgress his laws. (Ibid., 59:23; 39:16-18. ). The power of the Lord will be known when his fury is unleashed upon the unrepentant. (D&C 29:17-20; 88:88-92.) When the last great conflict is ended at the close of the millennium, the Lord's power will be fully demonstrated. (Ibid., 43:22-30; 88:111-116.) At the time Christ declares his work finished, his jewels, the people of God, will have been gathered together for time and eternity. (Ibid., 60:4; 88:106. ) Shake Dust Off Feet The testimony of the Spirit is powerful. Its consequences are always expressed with power. A testimony rejected leads eventually, unless repented of, to loss of great blessings. For the first time in the Doctrine and Covenants we learn about an ancient practice of testimony and its attendant power. The law is given in Section 60:15 as Shaking the dust off one's feet against those who do not accept the missionary. 'I'his ceremony is to be performed in secret. The washing of the feet is a testimony against the person in the day of judgment. (Ibid., 60:15; 1:8-10.) Thus the missionary has power to seal up the rebellious until the time of wrath. This was true in the Old Testament period as well as in the time of Jesus and the apostles. (Nehemiah 5:13; Matt. 10:14; Luke 10:10-11; Acts 13:51; 18:6.) The testimony of warning is a part of the plan in this dispensation. (D&C 84:87-95; 75: 20-21; 99:4.) When should this ceremony be performed? The answer must be 851 given at the time and according to the circumstances. 'The missionary is to be guided by love and patience in all things. It would seem that the elder would follow the counsel given to Hyrum Smith, that he should be directed by the Spirit in all things. (D & C 11:12.) In the final analysis, the gospel is one of love, but there may be conditions such as persecution or violence toward the elder, that would give mse to the use of the ceremony, if directed by the Spirit. Section 62—Testimony It was from Section 62 that we learned the meaning of "congregations of the wicked." The Lord reminds his people that his knowledge includes an understanding of man's weaknesses and also that he knows the way that man may be rescued from falling into temptation. (D & C 62:1.) Concerning the few elders on their way to Zion in 1831, he would have them know that they were blessed in bearing their testimonies to the world. But wherein were they blessed? Nevertheless, ye are blessed, for the testimony which ye have borne is recorded in heaven for the angels to look upon; and they rejoice over you, and your sins are forgiven you (Ibid., verse 3). This passage points up the importance of being in the service of one's fellow men. In this dispensation the Lord has emphasized the need for missionary work, a service of love for fellow man. (Ibid., 15:6.) When a person speaks by the power of the Holy Ghost, that Spirit testifies to the truth spoken. (2 Nephi 33:1.) When such testimonies are uttered they are recorded 852 in the heavens. Why should angels rejoice in this? Holy beings are concerned with the salvation of men. This testimony is a means to an end — the salvation of the testator and the convincing of others of God's truth. Service to God and Man When one is using his talents for the salvation of men, he is serving God and advancing his own salvation. (Mosiah 2:17.) The Lord admonishes his saints to develop their talents and use the gifts he has bestowed upon them by his Spirit.. Viewed from the perspective of man's eternal nature, there is no more important work in life than to work for one's salvation and that of his fellow beings. 'The greatest influence that the Latter-day RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 Saint can exert upon others is to be a living testimony of God's truth as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith. In concluding this revelation the Lord reminds his servants that,... I, the Lord, promise the faithful and cannot lie. Behold, the kingdom is yours. And behold, and lo, I am with the faithful always. Even so. Amen (D & C 62:6, 9). Questions for Discussion 1. Why does the Lord refer to the inhabitants of the world as wicked? 2. Of what value is it to you to know that God is sovereign in this world? 3. What is the purpose of bearing testimony of the Gospel? 4. In view of the purpose of earth life, what do you believe is the principal purpose of talents? VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 45 — "Pray Always That You Enter Not Into Temptation" (D & C 61:39). Christine H. Robinson For First Week, February 1963 Objective: To show that prayer is the shield the Lord provides to help us overcome temptation. NE of the greatest blessings which can come to us from our Father in heaven is the power to_discern and overcome temptation. In his struggle to capture men's souls, Satan has no more. Powerful tool than that of temptaoOo ee. Tion. He knows that no man ever becomes extremely wicked all at once. Sin, and the ultimate de. Struction that. Les it, lS a gradual and, often, a relatively unobvious process. President McKay has wisely said: LESSON DEPARTMENT often comes in the same quiet way. Perhaps yielding to it may not be known by anyone save the individual and his God, but if he ote aoake to it, he becomes a a ing this, our Father in heaven has provided us with a shield against this subtle, but powerful, force of temptation. He has counseled us to "Pray always that you enter not into temptation." In the Book of Mormon, Alma admonishes "'call on his holy name, and watch and pray continually, that ye may not be tempted above that which ye can bear' (Alma mea:25). 1" Regardless of the nature of our faith or the strength of our testimonies, we are always subject to the pitfalls of temptation. This is why we have been counseled to so live as always to have around us the protective influence of the Lord's spit. 'This is what President J Reuben Clark, Jr., meant when he said, "Build around yourselves an impregnable fortress of righteousness and depart not from your | citadel" (Brigham Young University! Commencement Address, 1949). §-An Arab legend recounts that when Gabriel was depriving Lucifer of the weapons he needed to conquer men's souls, the wiley tempter persuaded Gabriel to allow him to | keep one device — the weapon of discouragement. He knew that with ——__- 853 this weapon he could entice men into even grievous sins. Recently, a young mother was beset with many troubles which seemed to move in upon her from tall directions. When she sought., counsel on how to bear these burdens, she was advised, "If you have trouble and Lucifer tempts you, pray to your Father in heaven and the dark clouds will disappear and you will go on your way rejoicing." She was advised to pray constantly in her heart and to live for twentyfour hours as if Jesus were right beside her. This she did, and learned that when she approached each temptation and problem with the conviction that the Savior was by her side, her fears and discouragements vanished. She found she was able to control her temper, which so often before had controlled her. She was kinder and more understanding than she had been before. This was the effect of the Lord's spirit and the fulfillment of the promise which the Lord gives to all of us that the presence of his spirit will help us to avoid temptation. This thought is beautifully expressed in the well-known hymn I need thee every hour, stay thou near by; Temptations lose their power when thou art nigh. (L. D. S. Hymns, page 79). Prayer, then, is the real shield against temptation. Each of us should follow our Lord's counsel, "Pray always that you enter not into temptation" (D & C 61:39). WORK MEETING (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 5 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Clean (Part 1) Dr. Virginia F. Cutler For Second Meeting, February 1963 Objective: To show that a clean, well-cared for home enhances its beauty and uplifts the soul. Well-cared-for home improves with age, with the sheen of polished wood, the sparkle of glistening brass, copper, and _silver. The lived-in, comfortable feeling one finds in a home that has been loved and tended cannot be found to the same degree in a home newly built. Many people take great pride in their well-kept older houses. In the Orient there is, likewise, a feeling of reverence for the old, well-cared-for homes. Homes of grandparents in Indonesia often have a lowered roofline that requires one to stoop before entering, thus forcing one to make a bow to the household. In Thailand and neighboring countries, people take off their shoes before entering a home. The beautifully polished teak floors that are kept in perfect condition by hand rubbing with a coconut husk are appreciated more fully when one walks on them reverently with bare feet than when shoes are worn, which may scratch or mar the surface. Japanese households have a well outside for wash- 854 ing the hands before entering a home. Shoes are removed in the entry and slippers put on before going into the house proper. These customs enhance the feeling of appreciation for a well-cared-for home and give encouragement to the homemaker to keep it sparkling clean and beautiful. Someone said one day, "How do you get that beautiful hand-rubbed look to your table?" There is only one answer to that, by hand-rubbing. Have you felt the joy that comes from hand-polishing a piece of furniture made of some beautiful wood, such as walnut, mahogany, maple, birch, cherry, oak, or teak? If not, perhaps you would like that pleasure. First, cleanse a small section of the wood with a damp cloth wrung from mild suds, wipe with a cloth wrung as dry as possible from clear warm water, and rub dry with a dry cloth. Make a ponce by putting a ball of cotton in a soft cloth; dip the ponce in a mixture of 2/3 boiled linseed oil and 1/3 turpentine. (The boiled linseed oil comes that way from the LESSON DEPARTMENT shop; do not put it near a flame.) Rub the ponce over the wood, and with the palms of the hands, polish with the grain. The warmth from your body will bring out a soft glow to the wood. Finish the rubbing with a soft cloth. This oil treatment can be repeated at weekly intervals, minus the wash, for several weeks, to bring a beautiful finish to the wood. Have you heard of the clean windows of the Norwegians? No matter what else is done, a Norwegian homemaker sees to it that her windows are clean. What a good feeling one has on going into a home with freshly cleaned windows. It is a prelude to something even better inside. And it is difficult to "beat the Dutch" when it comes to clean houses. 'Their doorsteps are scrubbed daily, and their houses are kept in spotless condition. It is not suggested that you be a perfectionist, no one wants to live with one; but it is suggested that you know of the beauty that lifts your soul when you live in a clean, well-cared-for house. The beauty of everything is enhanced when it is clean. This applies to an individual, to the family, and to the home and possessions. There is nothing comparable to the beauty of a woman who has clean thoughts, clean actions, a clean life, who wears clean clothing, and lives in a clean house. One of our great Latter-day Saint values is 855 to bring beauty to everything we touch; to bring beauty into the lives of family members; and to provide a beautiful setting for their lives. Beauty in the home is not measured by the amount of money that has been spent, but by the thoughtful and loving care that is given to what one has. For our next month's discussion, let's have some "tell"* shows (demonstrations) and give some ideas about how to clean and care for our homes and furnishings. (An excellent reference to read ahead of time is How to Clean Everything, by Moore, published by Simon and Schuster in 1952.) Make these assignments: 1. A tell show on cleaning floors 2. A tell show on cleaning upholstered furniture 3. A tell show on cleaning metals. Questions for Discussion 1. How can the ideas about managing time be applied to cleaning? 2. Is it better to have an annual and semi-annual housecleaning time or to work on the big jobs all through the year with the regular cleaning? Discuss advantages and disadvantages of both methods. 3. What are some of the cleaning jobs that you feel must be done daily, weekly, monthly, and yearly? *Tell show: A tell show is a demonstration. First you tell, then you show, then suggest that members of the class practice the methods at home. Check up later to see if the method has been tried out in the homes and with what success. LITERATURE e@ America's Literature The New Birth of Freedom Lesson 37 — The Literary Lincoln Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York) For Third Meeting, February 1963 Objective: To establish a closer interrelationship between Lincoln's character and _ his writings, that we may more fully appreciate the genius of both. O every American, Abraham Lincoln seems as familiar as the five-dollar bills in our purses and pockets and as near as the fourcent stamps our tongues have moistened. Each February we publicly recirculate the worn, yet beloved stories of his walking miles to return borrowed books, of dropping behind his fellow travelers to pull a pig out of the mire, and restore fuzzy, peeping birds to their nest, of saving sleeping sentries from execution, of saving the Union and freeing the slaves. If our modern educators' routine memory exercise is ever ignored, it is only to permit our youths to memorize the Gettysburg Address, which is well worth memorizing. We give his name to schools and cars, logs and insurance, while from year to year the Lincoln stories grow of their own momentum. But often they are akin to the legends we absorbed at the same time we came to "know" Abraham Lincoln; our childhood image of Lincoln dominates our adult years as well, often with their familiar stories, serving, 856 actually, to prevent our adult rediscovery of him. How temptingly easy it is to coast along on our familiar generalizations about him, inevitably true since "we have known them all our lives." Yet few ventures into the American past yield greater insight into our mature selves than does a serious attempt to know Lincoln the man, Lincoln the symbol, Lincoln the man of the people who, in the words of Gamaliel Bradford, "still smiles and remains impenetrable." Actually, instead of thus generalizing we might be discovering for ourselves the mystery and charm of Lincoln, one of America's truly great men. In scarcely a hundred years, more has been written about him than about any other figure in world history except Jesus of Nazareth and Napoleon. But before we begin our pioneering quest for the "new" Lincoln we should pause to define our goals. Is it to know Lincoln as history or Lincoln as biography? Our goal is to know the man; our paths to this goal: history and his own words. LESSON DEPARTMENT | The Young Lincoln By virtue of the time and place in which his youth was _ spent, Lincoln excelled in the first three of the four popular recreations: stump-speaking, wrestling, storytelling, and horse-racing. These were social graces which, early mastered, he loved and used throughout his life as social tools, and as relaxation from the unbearable strains of the Civil War years. In later years he did not wrestle, though he always enjoyed exhibiting his extraordinary physical strength. He sometimes told stories merely to entertain, but often either to deflect a point being pressed to his disadvantage, or to sharpen one to his advantage. It was in his lifelong zeal to express his thoughts in the best manner possible that Lincoln revealed himself as the conscious literary artist that he was. And it was through mastering his speaking and writing skills that he achieved power over men, preliminary eminence, and eventually greatness. It was his scrupulous concern to get his words on the page just right that is not to be accounted for, and that reveals his genius. His stepmother recalled how he labored to improve his style: When he came across a passage that Struck him, he would write it down on boards if he had no paper, and keep it there till he did get paper, then he would rewrite it, look at it, repeat it (Barzun, Jaques: "Lincoln the Literary Genius," Saturday Evening Post, February 14, 1959, page 63). (Reprinted by special permission of The Saturday Evening Post, C 1959, the Curtis Publishing Company). William H. Herndon, his law 857 ABRAHAM LINCOLN From an Official Presidential Portrait partner for almost twenty years, likewise told how obsessed Lincoln was to find the right word to express his exact thought, how impatient he often became upon finding in others' writing "abstractions, glittering generalities, indefiniteness, mistiness of idea or expression." Because, occasionally, in his informal moments Lincoln told stories so spontaneously and delightfully in his regional "twang," he sometimes offended cultured, educated people. Until the 1920's his biographers either maintained that he never achieved a literary style of any distinction, or that suddenly his great style was achieved during the war years. The passing of time has worked to our advantage, first by freeing us from nineteenth-century standards of literary and oratorical fashion, so that we may judge his words on 858 their intrinsic merits; second, scholarship has revealed how carefully Lincoln worked over his written words, that they might present his entire self and intent clearly and powerfully. Invaluable is the firsthand account of Major Eckert, Superintendent of the Military Telegraph, who told how Lincoln came to his quiet office to work without interruption on the first draft of the Emancipation Proclamation: He would look out of the window awhile and then put his pen to paper, but he did not write much at once. He would study between times and when he had made up his mind he would put down a line or two, and then sit quiet for a few minutes. After a time, he would resume his writing.... When he came to the office on the following day he asked for the papers, and I unlocked the desk for him. This he did nearly every day for several weeks. Some days he would not write more than a line or two, and once I observed that he put question marks on the margin. He would read over each day all the matter he had previously written and _ revise _ it, studying carefully each sentence. Such testimony proves how meticulous a stylist Lincoln was, and how well he knew and practiced the basic principle of composition, "Hard writing makes easy reading." Time also permits us to realize the truth of what we already know; that the style is always the man, and that as the man grew and deepened and broadened, so did his writing style. As early as 1832, when he was only twenty-one years of age, he wrote well-ordered thoughts, both clear and moving, which early reveal his inborn ability to move people by so completely feeling each word that the reader cannot escape becoming Lincoln, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 at least in part, and thus hearing him sympathetically: Fellow-citizens, I shall conclude. Considering the great degree of modesty which should always attend youth, it is probable I have already been more presuming than becomes me. However, upon the subjects of which I have treated, I have spoken as I thought. I may be wrong in regard to any or all of them; but holding it a sound maxim, that it is better to be only sometimes right, than at all times wrong, so soon as I discover my opinions to be erroneous, I shall be ready to renounce them. After explaining that his greatest ambition is to make himself worthy of his fellow-men's esteem, and explaining that he is young, unknown, and humble, with "no wealthy or popular relations" to recommend him, he skillfully places his fate in the hands of the voters who, if they choose to elect him, will confer upon him a favor he will "labor unremittingly to compensate." He wrote But if the good people in their wisdom shall see fit to keep me in the background, I have been too familiar with disappointments to be very much chagrined. Your friend and fellow-citizen, A. Lincoln. New Salem, March 9g, 1832. Lincoln's Greatness The facets of Lincoln's greatness are many: humor, kindness, patience, ability to judge men and events, strong will, high dedication to honesty, fairness, equality, and the basic principles of morality, democracy, and religion. Our concem, however, is to prove his greatness through his written words, which are a most enduring and important legacy to the future. If we grant that like begets like, LESSON DEPARTMENT | A Perry Picture 859 LINCOLN'S HOME, SPRINGFIELD, ILLINOIS and that great prose is produced only by a great mind-imaginationsoul, it then follows that the flawless style which he perfected is but further product and proof of his greatness. Although as a lad he read Shakespeare, Bunyan, Burns, Defoe, and the Bible by fielight, and though during his first year as Congressman he read much, hoping to improve the coherence and directness of his style of writing, his mature Style is entirely his own, just as it is without precedent in American literature. And the dominant characteristics of his style — precision, brevity, rhythm, poetic eloquence — are the very identity of the man himself, and best represent him. Examples of each best prove the point. Precision I would save the Union. I would Save it the shortest way under the Constitution. The sooner the national authority can be restored, the nearer the Union will be "the Union as it was." If there be those who would not save the Union unless they could at the same time save slavery, I do not agree with them. If there be those who would not save the Union unless they could at the same time destroy slavery, I do not agree with them.... I shall do less whenever I shall believe what I am doing hurts the cause, and I shall do more whenever I shall believe doing more will help the cause. I have here stated my purpose according to my view of official duty; and I intend no modification of my oft-expressed personal wish that all men everywhere could be free. Yours, A. Lincoln. —(Excerpt from Lincoln's reply to Horace Greely ) =n Speech at flag-raising ceremony beome the Treasury Building: The part assigned to me is to raise the flag, which if there be no fault in the machinery, I will do, and when up, it will be for the people to keep it up. 860 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 2. To General Grant, who had _ telegraphed, "If the thing is pressed, I think that Lee will surrender," Lincoln replied, "Let the thing be pressed." 3. Written in June 1858, when requested to supply the story of his life for the Dictionarv of Congress: Born, February 12, 1809, in Hardin County, Kentucky. Education, defective. Profession, a lawyer. Have been a captain of volunteers in Black Hawk War. Postmaster at a very small office. Four times a member of the Illinois legislature, and was a member of the lower house of Congress. Yours etc. A. Lincoln. Balance and Rhythm 1. (Delivered February 11, 1861 to his friends in Springfield who stood in a light rain as he addressed them from the rear platform of his special train which was to bear him to Washington and the Presidency). My friends — No one, not in my situation, can appreciate my feeling of sadness at this parting. To this place, and the kindness of these people, I owe everything. Here I have lived a quarter of a century, and have passed from a young to an old man. Here my children have been born, and one is buried. I now leave, not knowing when, or whether ever, I may return, with a task before me greater than that which rested upon Washington. Without the assistance of that Divine Being who ever attended him, I cannot succeed. With that assistance I cannot fail. Trusting in Him, who can go with me, and remain with you and be everywhere for good, let us confidently hope that all will yet be well. To His care commending you, as I hope in your prayers you will commend me, I bid you an affectionate farewell. Poetic Eloquence I am loath to close. We are not encmies, but friends. We must not be enemies. Though passion may have strained, it must not break our bonds of affection. The mystic chords of memory, stretching from every battle-field and patriot grave to every living heart and hearthstone all over this broad land, will yet swell the chorus of the Union when again touched, as surely they will be, by the better angels of our nature (First Inaugural, final paragraph). Equally grand in its simplicity, then climaxed in a similar poetic passage, are the final lines of his Second Inaugural, delivered March 4, 1865, just forty days before his martyrdom: Fondly do we hope — fervently do we pray — that this mighty scourge of war may speedily pass away. Yet if God wills that it continue until all the wealth piled by the bondsman's two hundred and fifty years of unrequited toil shall be sunk, and until every drop of blood drawn with the lash shall be paid by another drawn with the sword, as was said three thousand years ago, so still must it be said, "The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether." With malice toward none; with charity for all; with firmness in the nght, as God gives us to see the right, let us strive on to finish the work we are in; to bind up the nation's wounds; to care for him who shall have borne the battle, and for his widow and his orphan — to do all which may achieve and cherish a just and lasting peace among ourselves, and with all nations. Despite the dark events of the Civil War, a vast commemorative service at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, had been planned for October, but when the orator of the day, SenatorGovernor-President of Harvard University Edward Everett, announced he could not be prepared by such a date, the event was post- LESSON DEPARTMENT poned to November 109, 1863. President Lincoln was invited to be present and, after the main oration, to formally "set apart these grounds to their sacred use by a few appropriate remarks." Before leaving Washington the day previous, he filled a sheet of paper with memoranda, then read it to his bodyguard, commenting it was not at all satisfactory, but that he had been too busy to give it more time. He arrived in the tiny village of Gettysburg the preceding evening. The next morning after a parade the governors and cabinet members took their places on the platform, then listened to the bands play until noon, for Mr. Everett, the orator of the day, had not yet arrived. Finally he came, and for one hour and fifty-seven minutes he addressed the crowd, estimated as high as 50,000. After a glee club sang an ode, Lincoln put on his steel-bowed glasses, and holding his two sheets of paper in one hand, arose to read from them in his "high-pitched, clear-carrying voice, the brief speech which has become so famous." Fourscore and seven years ago, our fathers brought forth upon this continent a new nation, conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation — or any nation, so conceived and so dedicated — can long endure. We are met on a great battle-field of that war. We are met to dedicate a portion of it as the final resting place of those who have given their lives that the nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this. 861 But in a larger sense, we cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated it, far above our power to add or to detract. The world will very little note nor long remember what we say here; but it can never forget what they did here. It is for us the living, rather, to be dedicated here, to the unfinished work that they have thus far so nobly carried on. It is rather for us to be here dedicated to the great task remaining before us; that from these honored dead we take increased devotion to that cause for which they here gave the last full measure of devotion, that we here highly re solve that these dead shall not have died in vain; that the nation shall, under God, have a new birth of freedom, and that government of the people, by the people, and for the people, shall not perish from the earth. After the perfunctory applause had ceased, the President said to his bodyguard, "Lamon, that speech won't scour. It is a flat failure and the people are disappointed." Reactions in the next day's newspapers varied. Many were critical of the President's remarks, but the Chicago Tribune reported that "the dedicatory remarks of President Lincoln will live among the annals of man," and Edward Everett wrote Lincoln, "I should be glad if I could flatter myself that I came as near to the central idea of the occasion in two hours as you did in two minutes." 'To which Lincoln replied, "In our respective parts yesterday, you could not have been excused to make a short address, nor I a long one. I am pleased to know that, in your judgment, the little I did say was not entirely a failure." Again, in judging this event, the 862 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 passing years have given us every advantage. As the times were new, so had Lincoln thought anew. Compared to the usual and traditional oratorical tones, Lincoln's words were terse and flat. Only in time did it become evident that out of his mind and heart had come a new pattern and tone of communtcating which was to shape a new age, new not only in America's history but in man's as well. Lincoln loved all men, = great poetry, drama, attending operas and plays, and telling good stories. The steady stream of writing about him which has only grown larger since his death now lets us also know him as timid, often melancholy and sad when he drew entirely within himself, always aloof in some degree from even his nearest intimates. He was dominated by religious ideals and longings which were the core of restless ambition and the great strength of his character. The more we study his writings, the more these qualities become evident therein, and the more fully we recognize in his carefully chosen words and rhythmic sentences the cohesive force which bound every phase of his life mto a unity. Lincoln's writings thus reveal the close relationship between the integritv of his character and his literary genius. Thoughts for Discussion 1. If Lincoln is generally accepted as symbolizing the American common man, how does such acceptance make him casier or more difficult to know? 2. What proof exists within Lincoln's own writings to show that he developed his final style over a lifetime, just as he himself came to his fullest stature and wisdom during the war years? 3. If Lincoln is seen as a complex genius and artist, which phase of his character might be fairly represented by his need for humor? By his exacting care and concern with his written words? Do you find any relationship whatsoever between these two word usages? ' Della Adams Leitner May I, aware of beauty, ever be Imbued with wonder at the starlit sky; Marvel to view the patterns in the wings Of bluebird or of velvet butterfly. And may my eyes though dimmed with years behold The loveliness around me manifold, Envisioning with spirit's senses keen The deep realities of the unseen. A fadeless joy is hers who ever knows The beauty and the fragrance of the rose. SOCIAL SCIENCE @ Divine Law and Church Government The Foundation of Church Government Lesson 4 — Divine Law and Priesthood Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, February 1963 Objective: To show the place and the importance of Priesthood in carrying out divine law. ROM our discussion in previous lessons, we may conclude that divine law emanates from God and has to do with every phase of man's relationship with the Father including all that pertains to life and salvation. Everything good comes from God. Every revelation is an expression of the divine will and is issued for the benefit and welfare of man. Our objective in this lesson, as stated above, is to show the place and the importance of Priesthood in carrying out divine law. Priesthood — Divine Authority Priesthood is the authority of God through which his purposes are accomplished. Priesthood is divine law in action. It is the dynamics of and the actual power supporting divine law. A ann to do with all things that God and truth are associated with. It is the power of God delegated to intelligence in the heavens and to men on the earth (Taytor, JOHN: Millennial Star, Vol. 9, page 321). From the above quotation, we can assume that God is the directing force of all that is good and true. He is concerned about every person who comes into this world. They are his children. He is particularly interested in those who accept his teachings and justify their affiliation with his organization by their actions. Because of man's free agency, God cannot be on the earth to direct things in person so he... Has delegated to man the necessary authority to carry out the provisions of the Plan. Priesthood is the name given this authority.... Without authority from God there can be no Priesthood (WipTSOE, Joun A.: Rational Theology, page 99). Divine law is the revealed mind and will of God relative to his children and their behavior. The Priesthood is the authority to carry out that law. It is also the channel through which God will continue to reveal his purposes to the children of men. President Brigham Young. Said the Priesthood of the Son of God "is the law by which the worlds are, 863 864 were, and will continue forever and ever. It is that system which brings worlds into existence and peoples them " (Wuprtsor, Joun A.: Discourses of Brigham Young, page 130). Understanding the Term Priesthood Priesthood may be explained under the following headings: 1. Power; 2. A commission or delegated authority; and 3. A personal blessing. First, Priesthood is a powerful force by which worlds were and are created and by which the unnumbered systems of planets operate in order. This same power is available to assist, guide, and direct man in his activities so that he may achieve the full purpose of his creation. But, unlike the other creations of God which operate within the rigid limitations of the law, man may accept or reject the truths, the divine laws within the power of the Priesthood. This is God's recognition of the sacred right of choice. Second, Priesthood is a commission. 'To the person upon whom the Priesthood is bestowed the right is given to act for God upon the earth. Third, the Priesthood is a blessing to the person receiving it, and through his faithful discharge of his duties it becomes a blessing to all people with whom he comes in contact. (See D & C 84:33-34.) Relationship of Divine Law and Priesthood 1. Revelation, the source of divine law The discussions in our lessons have already pointed out that divine law is the expressed mind and will RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 of God presented to man through revelation. Divine law provides the guideposts for the most effective and satisfying way of life for mankind. Priesthood is the authorized directing force that puts the law into action. For example, the divine law indicates that "marriage is ordained of God unto man" (D & C 49:15). The fulfillment of this divine law can be realized only through the operation of the Priesthood. The President of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints as Prophet, Seer, and Revelator holds all the keys of the Priesthood, which means "that every act performed under this authority shall be done at the proper time and place, in the proper way, and after the proper order' (Wuptsok, JOHN A.: Priesthood and Church Government, 1929 ed., page 200). The keys or directing power of the Priesthood are held by only one person at a time on earth. A portion of this directing power can be delegated to others and, in fact, is given to the various Priesthood holders when they are called to office in the organizations of the Church. Through this delegated authority all ordinances essential to exaltation are carried out. 'The law describes the organization and the Priesthood makes it function. 2. Man's laws versus divine law In the Library of Congress there are many, many volumes of manmade laws. 'They either authorize or restrain the activities of people. The official actions of the legal agents of political government are set forth in these volumes. 'Thus the freedom of the citizen is defined in the law. He who would be free must know the law and conduct LESSON DEPARTMENT himself within the framework of the law. Divine law does not limit or restrain man but opens the way for unlimited advancement. The ability, desire, and willingness to put forth effort to know and understand the mind and will of God determine the Priesthood holder's capacity to act in the authority of the Priesthood conferred on him. Genealogy of the Priesthood "Now this same Priesthood, which was in the beginning, shall be in the end of the world also" (Moses 6:7). The Prophet Joseph Smith tells us "There has been a chain of authority and power from Adam down to the present time" (Smith, Joseph Fielding: Teachings of the Prophet Joseph Smith, page 191). We are often reminded that Satan works Overtime in the development and presentation of evil to draw the souls of men away from the kingdom of God. But we should also be aware of the fact that the powers of righteousness have been working unceasingly from the beginning of time to teach, train, direct, and persuade the souls of men unto righteousness. The Priesthood of God was the dynamic force in the creation, and the Priesthood has been conferred upon man, beginning with Adam, that all men might have the benefit of this power in assisting them to harmonize their lives with their Eternal Father and in fighting the influence of evil. The Priesthood is the power Satan fears. He recognizes the source of this power and must respect and submit to its command. It is reasonable to expect that God would make available to man (his Spiritual offspring) every assistance 865 possible in man's rise to perfection. The Priesthood is that assistance. It is Our purpose to present in outline form the lineage of the Priesthood, suggesting its continued presence and availability for the benefit of mankind. We will review it in the following order: from Adam to Noah; Noah to Abraham; Abraham to Moses; Moses to Jesus Christ; and from Jesus Christ to Joseph Smith. There are certain places where direct lineage cannot be shown. We should also be aware of the fact that there were definitely periods of time when the Church or organized government of the Lord was not in operation on the earth. But, through specially authorized prophets, the light of truth was kept before mankind. 1. Adam to Noah For this division the lineage is clearly stated in both old and new scriptures. In the Doctrine and Covenants, we read, The order of this priesthood was confirmed to be handed down from father to son, and rightly belongs to the literal descendants of the chosen seed, to whom the promises were made. This order was instituted in the days of Adam, and came down by lineage in the following manner (D & C 107:40-41). Briefly stated, Seth was ordained by Adam at the age of sixty-nine, Enos was one hundred and thirtyfour years old when he was ordained by Adam, Cainan was eighty-seven, Mahalaleel was four hundred and ninety-six, Jared was two hundred, Enoch was twenty-five, and Methuselah was one hundred, when ordained under the hands of Adam. Lamech, at the age of thirty-two, was ordained by Seth. Noah was only ten years old when Methuselah 866 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 ordained him. 42-52.) 2. Noah to Abraham The sons of Noah included Shem, Ham, and Japheth. The Priesthood lineage is shown through the descendants of Shem. The record found in Genesis 11:10-27 lists eight direct descendants of Shem to Terah, the father of Abraham. This record is not specific as to the ordination of each of the eight referred to, but in the book of Abraham in the Pearl of Great Price, Abraham states that the Priesthood came down from the fathers. (See Abraham 1:2-3.) In the fourteenth verse of the 84th Section of the Doctrine and Covenants, we are informed that "Abraham received the priesthood from Melchizedek, who received _ it through the lineage of his fathers, even till Noah." (See D & C 107: 3. Abraham to Moses The Bible records the transfer of the blessings given to Abraham on his descendants through his son Isaac to Jacob and then to Joseph (see Genesis 12:2-3; 26:4; 28:14; 49: 25-26), but does not make specific mention of Priesthood or Priesthood functions and powers. However, in the book of Abraham in the Pearl of Great Price we learn that the great blessings promised to Abraham and his posterity concerned the Priesthood. 'The Lord said to Abraham, "And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee above measure, and make thy name great among all nations, and thou shalt be a blessing unto thy seed after thee, that in their hands they shall bear this ministry and Priesthood unto all nations' (Abraham 2:9). The blessings passed to Ephraim and Manasseh, sons of Joseph (Genesis 24:36; 25:11, 27; 32:24-20; 58:1-4). By direct revelation we are informed that the Priesthood lineage is given through Esaias. (see D & C 84:6-14.) "Esaias also lived in the days of Abraham, and was blessed of him" (verse 13). In the twelfth verse we read "and Esaias received it [the Priesthood] under the hand of God." 'The recorded lineage is from Esaias to Gad, to Jeremy, to Elihu, to Caleb, to Jethro who bestowed the Priesthood upon his son-in-law, Moses. 4. Moses to Jesus Christ "Now this Moses plainly taught to the children of Israel in the wilderness, and sought diligently to sanctify his people that thev might behold the face of God" (D & C 84:23). But they hardened their hearts... Therefore, he took Moses out of their midst, and the Holy Priesthood also; And the lesser priesthood continued, which priesthood holdeth the key of the ministering of angels and the preparatory gospel; Which gospel is the gospel of repentance and of baptism, and the remission of sins, and the law of carnal commandments (D & C 84:24-27). The lesser or Aaronic Priesthood continued to guide God's chosen people until the coming of the Savior. However, at various times special servants (prophets such as Samuel, Elijah, Isaiah, and others) were called by the Lord and given great power and authority in calling LESSON DEPARTMENT the people to repentance, blessing the righteous of the earth, and in rebuking the power of evil from controlling the hearts and minds of the people. With the Aaronic Priesthood performing the religious government of Israel, John the Baptist announced Jesus Christ the Son of God at whose baptism the Holy Ghost descended upon him and the voice of the Eternal Father identified him as his Son. This was the return of the Melchizedek Priesthood. Christ again set up his Church on earth. In John 15:16 Chiist says, "Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you.§ He set up the necessary Organization and ordained them according to their callings. It should be pointed out that The Book of Mormon records that the Priesthood was given to the prophets of the Western Hemisphere. The writing of Alma, a great prophet, indicates the influence of the power of God. The records of the Jaredites (the book of Ether) and particularly the book of 3 Nephi indicate the presence of the Priesthood. In 3 Nephi, Christ chose twelve disciples, ordained them, and instructed them how to teach and organize his people. 5. From Jesus Christ to Joseph Smith An apostasy from the Church, with resultant loss of the Priesthood, took place on both the Eastern and Western Hemispheres. President Joseph F. Smith writes, The Melchizedek Priesthood which Christ restored to the earth, remained among men between three and four hundred years afterwards. When in consequence of transgressions, apostasy from the true order of the Priesthood and Church 867 of Christ, the innovation of priestcraft and paganism, the true order of God was lost, the Holy Priesthood was taken from the earth, and the Church of Christ ceased to be among men, so far as we have any knowledge by revelation or from the history and records of the past (Gospel Doctrine, page 191). Thus, from approximately 450 A. D. To 1829 the Priesthood (the authority to act officially in the name of God) was not upon the earth. Modern Evidence of the Priesthood Joseph Smith's vision of the Father and the Son set the stage for the organization of the Church. Before this could take place the power of the Priesthood must be restored. The restoration is a very strong evidence of order in the Lord's house. First let us recall the vision of the Father and the Son. When they appeared, the Father identified the Son by saying "This is My Beloved Son." Jesus Christ is the God of this earth; therefore, it was his assignment to answer Joseph's questions and explain the future action for the Prophet. God the Father gave approval to Christ's program when he said, "Hear Him." A further lesson of order came in the fact that Joseph was not commissioned or ordained at this meeting with the Father and the Son. This was left to the men who had the authority placed in their hands by their position in the organization Christ had set up while he was on the earth. So, John the Baptist came and conferred the Aaronic Priesthood upon Joseph and Oliver, with the authority to function in the temporal ordinances. Later, Peter, James, and John, the leadership of Christ's Church established SACRED THREE PART CHORUSES FOR LADIES VOICES FORTH IN THY NAME, O LORD, | GO—Madsen i GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Schreiner HOW LOVELY ARE THY DWELLINGS—Liddle JESU, JOY OF MAN'S DESIRING—Bach LET NOT YOUR SONG END—Cain LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens _ LORD, GOD OF OUR FATHERS—Armbruster LORD IS MY LIGHT—Allitsen... LORD WE DEDICATE THIS HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen MY HEART EVER FAITHFUL— Bach STILL, STILL WITH THEE— Madsen Scott Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music _ indicated above. [] On Approval [J Charge [] Money Enclosed wae cc were ewes nns sc sscsncoessecveceses iJ °o 25.20.20 15 E. Ist South salt Lake City 11, Utah Ouv 100th Year 62-1962 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—NOVEMBER 1962 as a part of his earthly mission, came and ordained Joseph and Oliver elders, and conferred upon them the Melchizedek Priesthood with all the rights, keys, powers, and authority pertaining to this office. Other resurrected beings who held certain essential keys came and conferred the necessary authority upon Joseph and Oliver. Under the authority of the Priesthood the Church of Jesus Christ or kingdom of God, has been restored. All the ordinances necessary to the salvation and exaltation of man are available to those who have faith in God. The pattern of action followed by Adam, Noah, Moses, and the Savior, of calling the world to repentance, is the continual responsibility of the Priesthood holder of today. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What does the word Priesthood mean to you? 2. In what way is divine law related to Priesthood? 3. What is the difference between Priesthood as power and as a_ personal blessing?. Does the scripture indicate that the Priesthood has always been available for the enlightenment of man? REFERENCES D & C 27, 84, 107 The Book of Mormon: 3 Nephi Book of Alma Book of Ether SMITH, JosEPH F'.: Gospel Doctrine Pearl of Great Price: Book of Moses Book of Abraham Genesis 10, 11, 17, 24, 25, 27, 32, 48 ROSE PARADE TOUR IN DECEMBER HAWAIIAN TOUR IN NOVEMBER ASK ABOUT OUR MEXICO and SOUTHERN TOURS MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City 9, Utah e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 00.02 35 150 to 300 miles _ 0.0000.. 39 300 to 600 miles _ 00002.. 45 r 600 to 1000 miles ou.54 1000 to 1400 miles _ 0000.. -64 1400 to 1800 miles - 76 Over 1800 miles 0.00000000000.00-- 87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah K. D. NOVELTY DISTRIBUTORS Salt Lake City — 1940 W. 3500 South Provo — 247 W. Center Street FREE CATALOGS AVAILABLE AT OUR SALT LAKE CITY ADDRESS. 2 a Plastic Chri stmas Wreath CRAFT ITEMS Plastic — Ribbon Christmas Decor. Chenille — Yarn Styrofoam — Glass Artificial Flowers Leaves — Copper Jewelry Findings Candles — Felt Crystal Marbles Hat Frames — Net Bic. CARNIVAL & PARTY GOODS Crepe Paper — Cutouts Fish Pond Items — Plates Cups — Table Coverings Balloons — Wigs — Hats Float Materials — Tickets New Years Supplies Trophies — Pennants Tissue Balls, Bells, etc. Fund Raising Ideas Santa Suits — Etc. 869 GOLD A wonderful way to live UTAH POWER & LIGHT Buy now from your de MEDALLION new co. > ale 9 ROSE PARADE TOUR Eight fun filled days, including San Diego; Tijyana, Mexico; Catalina Island; Los Angeles; Las Vegas. Grandstand seats at Rose Parade leaving December 26, 1962. Also another eight-day Rose Parade Tour via Reno and San Francisco leaving December 26. MEXICAN TOUR Leaving middle of March, 1963. Mexico City; Cholula, Pueblo, Taxco, Cuernavaca, Acapulco, Archaeological Ruins. ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 Snow Flowering Gilean Douglas How can we speak of May who have seen this blooming Of argent bough, this virginal blossoming: When, from the dark indifference of November, The evergreens have brought triumphant spring? United States. Add ress Have You Heard About Basic-H? A revolutionary, unique and completely new cleaning product. NOT A SOAP — NOT A DETERGENT. AS GENTLE AS LOTION TO YOUR HANDS. THE IDEAL CLEANER FOR ALL PURPOSES. TRY IT ONCE AND YOU WILL NEVER GO BACK TO OTHER CLEANERS. Send $2.00 for one quart BASIC-H CONCENTRATE, WHICH MAKES 53 GALLONS OF THIS FINE CLEANER. Postpaid anywhere in the MADSEN DISTRIBUTORS. Post Office Box 2224, Salt Lake City 10, Utah 870 "JOSEPH SMITH AND OUR DESTINY" Between the Covers of this Book is the story back of the story of Joseph Smith — The Latter-day Prophet. The man who came at the right time — in the right place — with the right message! Here is the factual basis for all of his unique claims you have been awaiting and need to know. (1962 edition.) nce: dans nef eens ote For Over One Hundred Years HLIWS Hd ISOF i —— | L) an "i 2 =.% SF 1 = —i olen WE HAVE BEEN TELLING THE and WORLD THAT JOSEPH SMITH WAS A PROPHET. TODAY THE WORLD IS GIVING US POSITIVE PROOF FOR THIS TESTIMONY. Poe AMILSIG@ 48ND THE IDEAL CHRISTMAS GIFT ORDER YOUR COPY NOW! (You'll Be Glad You Did) (Detach and Mail) ORDER FOR "JOSEPH SMITH and OUR DESTINY" EARL W. HARMER, PUBLISHER '77 Yale Avenue Salt Lake City 5, Utah COSC Send ccc ceecceeceneeeee copies to me. PRICE $2.50 POSTPAID nc cceccececceeceenee [] Please send C. O. D. Hitter ee eee ee ee ee eet eee eer ee errr ret ry errr rrr rt Tie terete err rr rrr 1 Spray De pitti t tt eee ee ere errr ieee errr re Tee ere rer rrr err yy yy ey pp ee Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah 'Good things WILL STRIVE | to dwell | with it" SHAKESPEARE There's a whole family of U and | Sugar in bags and handy One-pound cartons (Brown, Fine Granulated, Superfine Dessert, and Powdered) for all these Thanksgiving treats. There's nothing quite like U and | - home produced - the best you can buy! UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY VOL. 49 NO. 12 
