Roberts Scars: now the brown dirt road winds Only in remembrance, and far away — The horse my father drove and I beside him, The crystal atmosphere, the liquid lay Of meadow larks, and farther west The curlew's poignant cry — All are severed veins of time. Child, ringed by sidewalks, neat and dry, And formal lawn, meadowless the young years Pass for you. Woodless you walk, Not among the toes of trees where violets Grow wild and fragrant in the spring. Grieving, I watch you, mourning how You will never grieve for that Earth-nearness I grieve for now. The Cover: Bryce Canyon, Utah Color Transparency by Don Knight Frontispiece: Child Looking Toward the Spring Photograph by Dorothy J. Roberts Cover Design by Evan Jensen Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press From Near and Far The Relief Society Magazine was introduced to me by Elder Dale E. Skinner when he taught me the gospel. Ever since then I have been attracted by the pretty covers of the Magazine and the nice stories. Most of all, I have been uplifted several times by President Belle S. Spafford's messages. When Elder Skinner finished his mission and went home, his loving mother gave me the Magazine as a Christmas gift for one whole year. And today I have just received a note saying that one more year is given to me by her. I have never received a better Christmas gift than this one. What a help and a blessmg the Magazine has been to me! It has been a constant source of inspiration in my task as a Relief Society teacher. —Sheila Tseng Hong Kong, China Since the publication of my poem "Idyll Moment" in the February 1961 issue of The Relief Society Magazine, several of my parents' friends have told them that the verses were used at programs honoring elderly people, or at golden weddings. 'Thanks so much for giving us this pleasure. I realize more than ever to what extent parents live vicariously in their children, and how much we are obliged not to fail them. —Marie C. Webb Provo, Utah I have only been taking The Relief Society Magazine for the past three months, but I really enjoy it and look forward to receiving it, especially since we live so far from the church, about twenty miles. My husband is in the service, and we cannot attend church as often as we would like to. 'The Magazine helps to make up for this. I love the covers on i Magazine. The November 1961 covr (from a painting of Nauvoo, Illinois) was especially beautiful. I enjoy the poetry in the Magazine very much. —Doris Moore Rocky Point, New York Page 154 I] just want to take a minute and put in a good word for The Relief Society Magazine. Someone sent me a_ subscription when I began my mission over eighteen months ago. I was so impressed with the cover pictures that I began cutting them out and giving them to contacts. Then I started glancing at the poetry and some of the articles. Then I was sold! You certainly have a publication to be proud of. It is a testimony in itself. I am sure the Lord is pleased with the missionary labor it performs, and with the high class literature it provides for the women of his Church. —FElder Farrell M. Smith Mettmann, Germany I am delighted with the first prize story "Ten Dollars Will Buy Many Things" (January 1962, by Mary Ek Knowles). Mary's mother, Nellie Worthen Ek, was my dear friend and lived with me as a girl. May I also say how much I enjoyed the very unusual and significant poem "The Other Mother" by Miranda Snow Walton (first prize poem, January 1962). I have read this poem to many of my friends over the telephone. —Mrs. Edith Hunter Lambert Salt Lake City, Utah Congratulations on the new look the January issue has. It hardly seemed that the Magazine could be improved. It has become an accepted part of my _ life. Thanks, also, for the wonderful pictures of places I have seen. Hardly an issue comes that I cannot say to my husband, "Do you recognize this?" Then each page unfolds a message, for which I am grateful. —Mrs. Zerelda Sapp Fort Jones, California I surely appreciate the beautiful covers on the Magazine. Our sisters enjoy the stories, poems, and especially the lessons. —June N. Ashton Poplar, Montana

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly Publication of the Relief Society of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD Belle S. Spafford - - President Marianne C. Sharp - - - - - - First Counselor Louise W. Madsen - - - - - Second Counselor Hulda Parker: - - - - - Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hari Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Elizabeth B. Winters Edith §S. Elliott Mildred B. Eyring Mary V. Cameron LaRue H. Rosell Florence J. Madsen Charlotte A. Larsen Afton W. Hunt Jennie R. Scott Leone G. Layton Edith P. Backman Wealtha S. Mendenhall Alice L. Wilkinson Blanche B. Stoddard Winniefred 8. Pearle M. Olsen LaPriel S. Bunker Evon W. Peterson Manwaring Elsa T. Peterson Irene W. Buehner Aleine M. Young Elna P. Haymond Irene B. Woodford Irene C. Lloyd Josie B. Bay Annie M. Ellsworth Fanny S. Kienitz RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Editor = - - - - - Marianne C. Sharp Associate Editor - - - - - - - - - - Vesta P. Crawford General Manager - - - - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford 

VOL. 49 MARCH 1962 NO. 3 
Contents 
SPECIAL FEATURES "Where Your Treasure Is) o. I. EccsccecccesccccecscscceccceseceseecseseccencecsscorecececcecescecencestsnccecenceesereceeSterling W. Sill 156 Leadership by Example ooeceeeececeeccceceecccecceeceeesceeecveceseeeeecseseneeececsecscseneaececenseesccssceaeeaneesMildred B. Eyring 163 The Young Child and His Books o.. O. E3o.. EccecceccccccceecececeececeecececceeceesecseesesseeecceneeeeeseseeeceesMay C. Hammond 174 The Red Cross — A Universal Symbol oon once cee eeee cence cen ence ence een nnsntnnenecteneecceeeeeFred A. Bantz 191 Do You Want to Increase Relief Society Attendance? 2aMargaret Fitzpatrick 198 The Lamplighters ooo eeeccecesecececnecoeceeeeeeecececcececccescceecececeseessececense-secessecueesencsescoteneescsseeaeecesAlice Gubler 207 FICTION Cheshire Cat — Third Prize Story ooeceeecceecccceeecoceccseceeeceeececsececsececececeeeeseceteeeesesaneeseesLinda S. Fletcher 166 Good Morning, Mrs. Romaie! I eeccccecccceeececcencencceneveceseceeeencveusesssenseneetesesseseseneeeeeMabel Law Atkinson 180 So Great the Calling ooo. Eccee ce eecceeeccccececececcceccccccceccecceceetececscecessecesscessnecsececeensnseeeceeesBetty Lou Martin 192 Sow the Field With Roses — Chapter 3 ooo ccecetecceceeeceeeceeeseseeeeesecseeneeseeeeMargery S. Stewart 216 GENERAL FEATURES Se se) aL: | 154 BUEN XOCTS AGO 2.0 cce---cneneen----nnneeceoneeanceenceecosnesscarenececeeeweracerecescesensecenerceereneaeeren 186 Woman's Sphere ooieeeec. Cieeeecceeeeeceeeeeeeeeeneeeeceneeess<A srRamona W. Cannon 187 Editorial: ''We Must Cherish One Another') 2200..0..0.0. Eocceteeeeceteeecceeceeeete cence sceneVesta P. Crawford 188 Christine H. Robinson Released From the General Board of Relief Society 0.000.000 189 Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue o2.. Oe. Ceeeeccceessecccsecesccceveeesceceseesescesceseseeecesesenesenenecensneceeees 191 Notes to the Field: Index for 1961 Relief Society Magazine Available 22 cecceeceeseeeeececeeeeeeeeceeeoee 190 Notes From the Field: Relief Socety Activities.20.0..0.00000.0.. Cccceee escecescseeeeeeceeceseeeeeeeeeeseeeeeesHulda Parker 222 BPAY COMGTOUIATIONS -..0.._..- -n--c.--c-nceeceoceeccecceocecnconcensecnsencecessecessncceccceacecceanecersusvncesecseceesssnescoseecavencesnces 22 FEATURES FOR THE HOME About Grandmothers ooo ee cccccecececcececceccececencecescesesesecesesecsssesvecessensessesessesenssseseecesesLinnie F. Robinson 196 Beverages Before q Dinmer ooo cceeecceseesecsncsveccecusessseseoeesesceneeseeceeecsseeeseuseseeseeeaneeeWinnifred C. Jardine 204 Bits of Odds and Ends ooeeeeieciiiceiiicicccceecenceccecneccoueecesscsnceenseeeeseseceseceseveceecensssecseseceessenesseneeeJanet W. Breeze 206 Stuffed Toys Are Delightful) 2.0.00. EeecccceeeeecceseeseeoeeeeeeseecvessesseeneeeseraceeseevecseeesecnstseeseeeeShirley Thulin 211 Johanna Sofie Farstead Specializes in Hardanger Work 0 2.. Csseececeseceeseceeseesecenensesenseneeseeeeececeees 215 To Follow the Flowers 20 2.--: ccsccccecececeeceeoceceseeeceseccecececcceceesseesenessesenansecsaesesssusseessceeeesDorothy J. Neilson 230 POETRY To a Child — Frontispiece oo eeececccccecsccececccceceeececescececeseesesseeecesecseeeneeeceaees =Dorothy J. Roberts 153 Splendor Born ooo ceesecscceccecececeeesseeecseseceseeeseseseesseeees<a... Eva Willes Wangsgaard 162 MS Enns cce cence ecneneceneeneneenenesnsnenecensatentensosensasessanennenesaPatricia Robinson King 165 | eso (hs |Lila L. Smith 165 TCT 5 (-): cecaIda Elaine James 172 SSMS Cet Sylvia Probst Young 173 To a Yellow Crocus 000.0 nn "__Hazel Loomis 179 His Art. — ee ae Gladys Hesser Burnham 185 RRM Cir anne ee ance en cten scenes nnsenecnseneoneemecnseneenstneenesseeeesneenesaneneesesanenuesMaude Rubin 201 Another Spring 2 ete eee ————Annie Atkin Tanner 202 View From the Pass oo eee sesceceeseceeeecceecseeceeceosensacenssaseneeesssesscnsensecasenceseeeeMartha Tucker Fugate 210 I CT ance cece snes seeeenncennnenccnencecesennensscoeenssnsenessestestenesnsentesnenesnecaeeevensenseeOlive C. Wehr 221 MCI nee ecc sce cemscneenteneecennensecnnetenneneicsuvenescecesnesonececeeensViola Ashton Candland 228 BMPWATODS, --nncncnsien-nacascnese-snsaeeoeeseessessncecneeeeocsdddtecc-ceeeesesaacacseacnonseeseessecestsecoeceecsesereneeceateeceneEthel Jacobson 231 

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Copyright 1962 by the Relief Society General Board Association Editorial and Business Offices: 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah: Phone EMpire 4-2511; Subscriptions 246; Editorial Dept. 245. Subscription Price: $2.00 a year: foreign, $2.00 a year; Zoc a copy; payable in advance. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. No back numbers can be supplied. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts. 

Page 155 "Where Your Treasure Is" Elder Sterling W. Sill Assistant to the Council of the Twelve [Address Delivered at the Magazine Department of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 28, 1961.| lege of meeting with this fine group of Relief Society workers. My contacts with the Relief Society have all been very pleasant. My mother was a Relief Society president when I was young enough to go to the meetings with her. My wife has also served in the presidency of the Relief Society. I was a bishop for ten years during which time I had a very happy Relief Society experience. And Elvira A. Coles, the first 'Treasurer of the Relief Society in Nauvoo, was my great-grandmother. I would like to congratulate you upon being an active part of this great organization that is doing so much for people. I am something of a hero worshipper to begin with. There are very few things that give me the thrill of satisfaction that I get from the contemplation of someone who can do things. There is an old saying that if you want something done, get a busy man to do it. I suppose this proverb would be considerably improved upon if it said, if you want something done, get a busy woman to do it. But a still better means of accomplishment would be just to hand the job over to the Relief Society. I heard of a stake conference some time ago where the stake president said to Brother LeGrand Richards, "I want you to know that the Page 156 | iese ot very much the privibrethren are directly behind the Relief Society." And Brother Richards said, "I'll say you are. You are fifty years behind." I have been asked to say something about your particular work of selling The Relief Society Magazine. I ought to say before I begin that I have a rather unusual kind of taste distortion, so that if I were turned loose just to have fun, where all | had to do was to enjoy myself, I would go out and collect money from people. 'This disposition has been developed by a number of very interesting experiences in this field. Sister Sharp mentioned that I had had something to do with financing the construction of a building at the University of Utah. I imterviewed 704 people seeking a financial contribution. I was turned down 447 times. If you would like to have an interesting experience, get yourself turned down on some proposition 447 times. But because one person may turn an idea down, doesn't necessarily mean that everyone will turn it down, as 257 people gave me over $400,000. Of course, your ratio of getting subscriptions to the Magazine must be much higher than that. But I mention this because I think the best way to convert someone to something is to get him to put some money into it.. In one of the greatest of truths Jesus said "... Where "WHERE YOUR TREASURE IS" your treasure is, there will your heart be also" (Luke 12:34). Let me give you some practical examples of this idea in actual operation. A few General Conferences ago Elder Bruce McConkie told of a bishop 'interviewing a boy who was to be ordained a deacon. But at the same time the bishop talked with the boy about preparing for a mission. The boy hadn't thought much about it because he didn't know where the money would come from. The bishop suggested that maybe the deacon ought to start a savings account and use the years between twelve and nineteen to get his missionary funds in the bank. The fact that this deacon then adopted a definite program for putting a part of his newspaper route money in a missionary fund is about the best guarantee that I can think of that he will not disqualify himself in the meantime. Here is another example. When plans were being made to finance the Los Angeles 'Temple, President Noble Waite was put in charge of collecting a part of the money in the temple district. The people living there were invited to sign pledge cards. A twelve-year-old boy came to President Waite and said that he would like to sign up to pay seventyfive dollars. He came from a poor family who had already agreed to pay a substantial amount, and President Waite thought that this additional contribution might be too much. But the boy seemed to know where he was going, and so President Waite permitted him to sign a pledge card. 'Then, week after week, he sent in his payments until the pledge was redeemed. Then he returned and told Presi- 157 dent Waite that he would like to sign up for another seventy-five dollars. In time this was also paid. Someone has said that "What we give we keep, and what we keep we lose." That is, it will always be true that this boy has $150 invested in the Los Angeles 'Temple. But more important than that, his heart goes with his treasure. His contributions will help him to be married in the temple. A number of years ago I happened to be the bishop of a ward during the period that a meetinghouse was being built. We felt that the best possible way to increase interest and develop loyalty to the Church was to make sure that everybody had a substantial financial interest in the ward. Even very young children should be encouraged to earn and invest some money in the Church. We called on one family where the father had been inactive all of his life. Huis wife was a nonmember and none of his children were interested. We told them that we had come to talk with them about making a contribution toward the erection of a new meetinghouse. The father said, "I don't understand why you should come to us. We are not active in the Church, we don't work in it; we don't attend, and we don't pay any money. Why do you think that we should make a contribution?" We said to him, "We will be glad to explain it to you. You have just said that you don't pay any money, and you don't do any work in the Church. We pay money and do work, too. If you don't do any work, why shouldn't you pay twice as much money?" 158 That sounded like a reasonable proposition to him, and so he gave us $500. Then we said to him, "Brother Jones, we have no way of knowing whether or not this is a sufficient amount of money. But there is one way we can find out." Then we told him what the Lord had said about where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. And we said, "Now, if we have collected enough of your treasure, then we know that your heart will be with the Church, and you and your family will be at Sunday School next Sunday morning. However, if we don't see you there, we will know that your heart is not yet in the Church, and we will keep coming back until we have enough of your treasure to bring your heart in, also." I mention the financial aspect because your money philosophy will be very important to success in your particular work. Because our money philosophy is often very weak, many of our worthwhile projects fail. And while the financial consideration involved in subscribing to The Relief Society Magazine is not a great one, yet there are many times when your failure or success will depend upon your money philosophy. Of course your responsibility as Magazine agent is not merely to collect the money — it also includes making sure that the Magazine will be fully utilized. THINK of the possible effect that your personal contact may have in the lives of the women of the Church as a result of your talking to them about the educational, religious, and other advantages of reading. One of the things that we need more than most other things RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 is to learn how to get the most practical use out of ideas and ideals — available through the printed page. Woodrow Wilson once said, "The greatest ability of the American people is their ability to resist instruction." 'That is also one of our most serious problems in the Church, and I suppose that most of us as individuals have our full share of that unfortunate talent. One of the greatest opportunities of a mother is to get the nght kind of ideas and ambitions into actual operation, and you can make them available in permanent, usable form. I have attended a great many conventions over a long period, and almost always when something is said that is thought to be important, someone asks, "Couldn't we have a copy of that? Couldn't it be written down so that we can go over it and absorb it and think about it and improve our lives by it?" The Lord has always seemed very anxious that important things should be written down. He said to John the Revelator, "Write the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter." In giving the vision known as the 76th Section of The Doctrine and Covenants, the Lord repeated on four different occasions in verses 28, 49, 80, and 115, that Joseph and Oliver should write the vision while they were still in the spirit. And the Lord wants you to make great experiences and great ideas available to others through this Magazine. The best way to get people to subscribe to and read the Magazine is in this face-to-face kind of contact. The doctor can carry the spirit of health right with him as he sees his "WHERE YOUR TREASURE IS" patients face to face. He would not be nearly so effective if he merely called them on the telephone or put an ad in the newspaper or made a public health announcement. Most of the important things that happen to us come by means of personal contact. A genealogical worker once called on me and started me on the idea of doing temple work. In a personal interview, Elder Adam Bennion helped me to develop a reading habit when I thought I was too busy to read. In your subscription-getting interview, you can plant some seeds that will change the lives and habits of people. [* I were going to work in the Relief Society and had my choice of assignments, I can think of no assignment that I would rather have than to be Magazine representative. I was the bishop for a number of years, and I never felt that I ever did much good merely announcing the page of the song, etc. If I ever did any good, it was out in the homes of people who were in need of help. Of course every assignment in the Church is important. A teacher has a great calling. She may have ten or twenty people in her class. But if you sell a Relief Society Magazine subscription, by this one act you may make available an entire Magazine full of articles every month for twelve months to a number of people. Think how long it would take a teacher to get over that much material. But, in addition, your subscriber has a permanent word-for-word possession, so that she can come back to these good ideas again and again. Now, how do you make a sale? Of course that depends to some ex- 159 tent on each individual situation. But the first step is to believe in the Magazine. About the most marvelous power that I know anything about is the power of conviction. If you sincerely believe something, those with whom you talk will believe it also, and they will be changed and benefited by your faith. But you must first get a firm conviction in your own heart of the worthwhileness of what vou are doing before you can do very much for anyone else. For your consideration, let me give you "The Big Four'' of success, negatively stated. 'That is, there are only four reasons why you may not succeed. 'They are as follows: You may have —. An inadequate prospect. An insufficient exposure. An ineffective presentation. An indifferent representative WN eH 1. An Inadequate Prospect There may be some people who could just not possibly be interested, though you will find very few of these "china-egg prospects" in your work. Most of your interviews will hatch. President John Taylor once said that there was no one who could not be appealed to by the gospel, if the nght person made the right approach at the right time. 2. Insufficient Exposure It takes time to get a mind properly warmed up. To some extent everyone resembles a thermometer. If you ask them to subscribe when they are thirty-two degrees below zero, they will decline. But their situation can be changed by building a fire under their interest. Don't just assume that the advantages of 160 the Magazine are clear to them. Go over the various points of value with them. Minds can be changed. Oscar Hammerstein once said, "A heart can inspire other hearts with its fires I once heard of a farmer who wanted to sell his farm. He hired an advertising man to write the copy for the paper. 'The farmer told the advertising man about the various good features of his farm, and after these had been written up in interesting language, the advertising man checked with the farmer by letting him read what had been written. When the farmer read about all of the wonderful features of his farm, he became so excited that he would not sell it for any price. The same thing happens when we sufficiently expose people to the gospel. When I was on a mission many years ago | memorized the Fourth Section of The Doctrine and Covenants. 'The Fourth Section consists of only seven sentences, made up of 145 words. You can read the entire Section in three-quarters of a minute. I thought I understood everything about the Fourth Section, and then one day I heard President Joseph Fielding Smith talk to a group of young missionaries about the Fourth Section of The Doctrine and Covenants, and as the light of his experience and interest shone on the Fourth Section, I felt a new influence in it that I had never known before. Of course it sometimes takes time for this interest to mature. That is why re-calls are so often necessary. If you need to call back a few times, the increased exposure makes it so much the better. Remember that what you are doing is very important, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 and your objective is not merely to get a subscription — it is to get this Magazine and a desire to read it into the hearts of people in such a way that they will read it religiously and profitably every month. No devoted, effective effort is ever lost. It has been said that the smallest bird cannot alight on the greatest oak without sending a vi bration to the furthermost root end. Success is accumulative. I once heard a man telling about the number of calls he made when he was courting his wife. Someone said to him, "Why didn't you just call on her once?" I suppose that when some of you were being courted, he had to come back as many as two or three times before he got the job done. 3. Ineffective Presentation Number three of the big four is an ineffective presentation. Some procedures get better results than others. You may be interested in an ineffective presentation made by Moses. When Moses started across the desert leading this great horde of Egyptian slaves, he needed someone who knew the desert to act as their guide. There was a man living on the edge of the desert by the name of Hobab. Moses said to him, "Hobab, come with us and we will do thee good." But Hobab said, "I will not go." Even Moses got himself turned down because he said the wrong thing. But Moses needed Hobab, and so he made another try with a different approach. This time he said, "Hobab, come with us that thou mayest be as eyes to us in the wilderness." 'That is an entirely different appeal, and almost before the words were out of his "WHERE YOUR TREASURE IS" mouth, Hobab had his hat on and was ready to go. We have these same two approaches in use in the Church. In trying to get someone to attend Church, we sometimes say, "Come to Church, and we will do thee good." We mean, "It will be a good thing for you to associate with nice people like us." 'That may be all right, but not many people are warmed up by that kind of an appeal. Suppose, as Moses did, we try the service appeal and say, "Come and teach this class. We need your leadership. We need your friendship. You be our eyes in the wilderness." 'That is, to let them do something ls usually much more effective in getting interest. 4. An Indifferent Representative The fourth of the big four considerations determining failure and success is found in the representative herself. 'The most deadly of the big four is to have an indifferent representative, one who herself is not properly organized or interested. The fires need to be burning brightly in our own hearts before we can ignite the fuse of interest in someone else. We need to have the spirit of success ourselves. Jesus said the kingdom of God is within you. That is where all accomplishment is also. I would also like to suggest that time and place of the interview are 16] also very important. I have heard of someone trying to collect money or sell someone a subscription as they were about to go into sacrament meeting. I think that the church grounds should be a sanctuary. People go there for another reason. This timeliness of your contact will be very important. That is, if you ever try to sell someone the Empire State Building, don't try to do it while he is running to catch a street car or listening to the concert. Now, to sum up, if you will perfect the big four in their positive aspects, then every family in the Church will have The Reliet Society Magazine.. I would like to close with one of the most interesting of all ideas. Someone has said that the greatest invention of all time took place at Platea 2500 years ago, when an obscure Greek perfected the process of marching men in step. That is, when it was discovered that the efforts of a great group of people could be co-ordinated and focused upon a single objective, that day civilization began. What a thrilling idea if all Relief Society Magazine representatives could march in step to reach a complete success where all of the women in the Church not only subscribe to the Magazine, but fully absorbed the great ideas therein every month. And may the Lord bless you to this end is my prayer which I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. 162 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 CACHE STAKE MAGAZINE DISPLAY ARRANGED FOR THE ANNUAL GENERAL RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, September 1961 This inspirational display, arranged by Melicent Anderson, Counselor in Cache Stake (Utah), Fourth Ward Relief Society, was first featured at a special program in that ward, and was later displayed at a Cache Stake leadership meeting. The Magazines are opened to special articles which appeared in the 1960 issues. The pictures in the background are framed covers of The Relief Society Magazine, designed for use in home decoration, as well as for use in Magazine displays in the wards and in the stake. The decorated jars were made for saving coins for Magazine subscriptions, and the bag was made from directions in the July 1960 Magazine. Refreshments served at the ward meeting and the stake leadership meeting were made from Relief Society Magazine recipes. Alice D. Griffin represented Cache Stake as Magazine director at the time of the arranging of this display, and Diana Willie was the Magazine representative for the Fourth Ward. Pearl R. Haddock is president of Cache Stake Relief Society. —_- Splendor Born Eva Willes Wangsgaard These sink in glory like a falling star: A murky day that sunset gold retrieves, A year beneath her cloak of golden leaves, And waves that break where jutting mountains are. But these are born to splendor as they wake: The virgin year with snowflake-threaded hair, A dawn in June in balsam-scented air, And mountains on which waves and years must break. Leadership by Example Mildred B. Eyring Member, General Board of Relief Society [Address Delivered at the General Session of the Annual General Relief Society Conference, September 27, 1961.| Y brothers and sisters, I am M grateful for this opportunity to testify to you my conviction that God lives, that he is our Father, that Jesus Christ is our elder Brother and Savior, and that this is truly his Church. I am grateful that he has given the authority to act in his name, to his worthy sons here on the earth. I am grate: ful for the leadership of the kind, wise, devoted men who have been called to stand at the head of his Church, his kingdom here on earth. I honor these men. There is an old Chinese proverb, which says, "He who tells me of my faults, is my teacher. He who tells me of my virtues does me harm." Perhaps that is drastic, but there is a core of truth there. I am sure most of us would want to qualify it somewhat. We must recognize our faults, if we are to correct them, and undue praise can be harmful in some situations. Today, I shall not praise our virtues, but rather I shall ask that we all appraise ourselves and perhaps recognize some of our weaknesses. | speak to myself, as I speak to all of you. I hope that we may learn together. Most of us have held positions of leadership in various organizations within the Church, and we know the particular responsibilities of those positions, but I would like to suggest that every individual always is a leader, because every individual everywhere has an influence, good or bad, on all those who see or hear about him. The more widelv we are known, the greater is our influence. None of us can escape this responsibility. Cain's question, "Am I my brother's keeper?" must be answered in the affirmative. I am mv brother's and my sister's keeper. I help to make them as they are. With that thought in mind, I would like to examine the Tenth Commandment: "Thou shalt not covet." 'The dictionary tells us that to covet means to desire inordinately something that belongs to another. This commandment, then, it seems to me, is telling us to avoid envy, to avoid undue concern about our material possessions or our positions, in modern parlance to avoid trying to keep up with the Joneses. I believe that much of the evil and misery of the world today stems from widespread disregard of the Tenth Commandment. 'Too many people, too many of us who would not lie or steal or break the other commandments, seem to be unaware that we are ignoring this one. Avarice, envy, selfishness are grievous sins. They are underlying causes of crime, of financial indebtedness, of poverty, of broken homes, of war, indeed of all of the evils that are opposed to the laws of God. Page 163 164 Since I am my brother's keeper, I am sure I have a double responsibilitv regarding this commandment. Not only must I control my own inclinations to covet, I must also consciously avoid exciting covetousness in others. If I must have status in order to satisfy my ego, I believe I should gain it by rendering service to others, or by creating something which will improve the world. In other words, I believe it would be better for me to find satisfaction in what I am and what I can do, rather than in the things that I may possess. It would be better for me and for those I influence. Paul spoke truly when he said "'the love of money is the root of all evil" (Timothy 6:10), and I believe that the Tenth Commandment is largely about just that. We should appraise ourselves regarding it. NOTHER expression we frequently use is peculiar people. The colloquial meaning of the word peculiar is queer or eccentric, and unfortunately that meaning has been accepted by most of us. And, because we do not want to be considered queer, we try verv hard to appear to be like everyone else. We try to avoid seeming peculiar. But the true meaning of the word is special, distinctive, particular. The ancient Israelites were told "the Lord... Hath chosen thee to be a peculiar people unto himself, above all the nations that are upon the earth" (Deut. 14:2). "And the Lord hath avouched thee this day to be his peculiar people... And that thou shouldest keep all his commandments" (Deut. 26:18). If now, in modern Israel, we can properly claim to be God's chosen RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 people, we must be willing to be distinctively his and to keep his commandments. 'To do so, in the materialistic, agnostic world of today, we must be willing to be different. In fact, we must insist on being different, in many ways, from most of the people about us who do not share our beliefs and standards. We must, in our everyday lives, adhere to the standards that God has set for his special people, regardless of what others may do. If, to order milk or fruit juice instead of tea or coffee or cocktails, or to decline the proffered cigarette, or to refrain from using profane or vulgar language, or to dress modestly, or to keep the Sabbath day holy, or to obey the law of chastity; if, to obey any of the commandments of God, makes us feel queer or uncomfortable, it is time that we change our attitude or our associates or both. We must be willing to de clare with Paul, "I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ," and mean it. If we are to be his chosen people, we must be peculiarly, distinctively his. Most of us here today are leaders in Relief Society, and as such we not only have the responsibility of leadership, which is common to all, but we have the specific responsibility to plan and conduct our activities so that all the women of the Church, by following our leadership, our precept and example, may reach the ultimate objective of this organization. 'The inspired Prophet Joseph Smith said, "This society ls not only to relieve the poor, but to save souls."" Physical needs must be met, of course, but poverty of the mind and spirit is as real as physical poverty, and in many places is more LEADERSHIP BY EXAMPLE prevalent. It also must be relieved if souls are to be saved. That is our assignment, and our first step in filling it is to make sure that we are keeping all the commandments. Only then can we lead others in the right direction. 165 I pray that our Heavenly Father will bless each of us with the wisdom and strength to keep all his commandments, to be distinctively his people, to be good leaders. I ask it in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Contrast Patricia Robinson King Where I was born the hills were humps, Hardly more than gentle bumps That nudged each other all the way Until they edged down to a bay. Where I was born the grass was deep, The nights were cool, and the sea could keep The earth back with a cove and sand, Marking division of salt and land. Where I live now the plains are wide; They almost tuck the world inside. The roads stretch out and I can see One hundred miles in front of me. Where I live now, the world is high And mountains reach to split the sky. One world was neat and citcumspect, But here life is the architect. This throbbing land still calls to those Who blend their poetry with prose. The Passing Day Lila L. Smith I have no qualms about the passing day, Unless I sit, and let it waste away. Shird Prize S tory Annual Relief Society Short Story Contest Cheshire Cat Linda S. Fletcher LINDA S. FLETCHER 669M like that Cheshire cat to my family," mused Edeth, remembering her reading session with Tommy the evening before, as she automatically performed her early morning household duties. "I come into the consciousness of Neil and the children only when they want something, and then, chiefly, as a Face with a constant Smile, since I try to meet their need cheerfully." "Is my lunch ready?" inquired her husband, appearing in the kitchen doorway. "Yes, to be put into the box. Could you please do that?" she replied, pointing to a pile of waxed paper wrapped edibles. Page 166 Neil's eyes focused on her as if he saw her for the first time in many days. "I suppose I have time," he murmured vaguely, and proceeded to do the job he had never been asked to do before. "He really saw me whole, I do believe!" Edeth exulted, inwardly. Just then Baby Kirk gave the lusty, imperative call which announced he was awake and, with a quick peck at her occupied husband's brown cheek, and a hasty, "Goodbye, have an interesting day!" she hurried to the nursery. She had just lifted the baby from his warm nest, when she heard hurtying footsteps descending the stairs, and her oldest of four, Lana Ann, went past the door and into the bathroom. Edeth sighed as she thought it would be another hour, at least, before she would see the girl again. Lana Ann had the maddening habit of running the tub full almost to overflowing and then luxuriating in her bath as long as she possibly could. Edeth had finished feeding the baby and was tying Tommy's shoes, when Melanie, her ten-year-old, came rushing downstairs in what her mother called her "tornado mood," and burst out: "Mother, do come and find my stockings! I haven't one pair in my drawer!" "Did you bring them from the rack?" asked Edeth, with the even- CHESHIRE CAT ness of tone which betrayed how desperately she was trying to control her temper. "No — didn't you put them into my drawer?" returned Melanie, a note of perplexity in her voice as she focused her wondering eyes on her mother. "No, dear," Edeth replied. "You remember I told you last week that you would have that job in the future." "T guess I didn't hear you wailed Melanie. "Could you bring me a pair just this once and then I'll go down after school and get the others?" she coaxed. Edeth started toward the basement door and then halted abruptly. "You have time to go down and get them," she told Melanie, firmly. \? HE youngster started to protest. Then she looked her mother up and down, as if really seeing her for the first time, and turned silently toward the basement door. She went on through it and _ then bounced on down the steps to the laundry room below without further comment. "T do believe she, too, saw me," Edeth mused. "The Cheshire Cat seems to be completely materializing!" Melaine shortly reappeared, both of her hands full of hose. She promptly dumped them on the davenport in the living room and proceeded to choose a pair from the lot. A wail burst from her lips as she examined the two she had chosen. "There's a hole in the heel of each of these! What am I going to do? Could you...?" She broke off her request suddenly as she looked doubtfully at the parent who had 167 abruptly become a Person who might not like to do her mending. "Choose another pair," suggested Edeth, "then separate the hose into two piles, one of the whole stockings and one of those which need mending. Put the good ones away and repair the others after school." "But [ want to wear the red pair!" protested the girl. "Perhaps the holes won't show!" "In the heel?" Edeth's tones were incredulous. Melanie looked guilty and then broke into the smile which usually won her point. "Couldn't you just — er — pull them together?" she persisted, but wavered as she studied her mother. "Not this time," Edeth replied firmly. "Please choose a pair you can wear and then do with the others as I suggested." With many starts and stops and puzzled glances at her parent, Melanie finally disposed of the stockings. Just then Lana Ann burst from the bathroom. "Mother, why didn't you remind me I was staying in the tub too long!" "But there's a clock in there — right in your line of vision," Edeth reminded her quietly. "But I had my wailed the girl. "I have told you very often to be conscious of the time," her mother reminded. "Yes, but you've always..." Lana Ann broke off, as she looked into Fdeth's calm eyes. "I know — and I was thus at fault," the latter responded. "May I serve notice now that in the future I shall give you full responsieyes closed!" 168 bility for getting yourself up and off to school?" The girl looked searchingly at her and then, with another anguished glance at the clock, hurried to finish her preparations for school. ITH the family finally off to their daily activities and the baby asleep, Edeth was free again to pursue the thoughts which had presented themselves earlier. While putting the house to rights, she reviewed the beginning and growth of the condition in which she now found herself — that of being a nonentity to her own family. She realized that she was thus failing those whom she loved best. I have permitted the demon monotony to get me in his clutches, I suppose, and have been too much occupied with the many things. Now, I must find the way to introduce a new mode of living into our disordered and confused lives. My family needs a mother, not a mere housemaid! The doorbell rang, as if in sympathy with her problem. The Relief Society visiting teachers were calling with a special invitation for her to attend the meeting to be held on the following evening. "We're having an evening session this week so that those women who work or for other reasons are unable to attend our regularly held meetings may come. "We do hope you will join us, Sister Lindley. The social science lesson is to be discussed this time. It concerns spiritual living, and these lessons have proved to be of great interest to the women." "I'm going to come," Edeth heard herself asserting, firmly. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 The family were much surprised to have Mother come to dinner the following evening all dressed up. She was wearing some _ beautiful crystals in her ears and around her neck, and her dress was of the kind which would muss and wrinkle easily. She usually wore clothes that would withstand such things, and her earrings were usually left in the jewel case because the baby insisted on pulling them from her ears. "Aren't you taking the baby?" asked Melanie, rather awed by Edeth's grandeur, and yet feeling that she should try to keep things normal. "No. I think I'll leave him home and have Daddy take charge of getting him to bed while you and Lana Ann wash the dishes and tidy up. And 'Tommy will need a bath, too," she continued, turning to Neil. "Do you think you can manage all nght for a little while?" she asked brightly. "I — suppose so — yes, of course," he answered, so taken aback by her light-hearted assumption that he could take over for her with no trouble, that he was completely jolted out of his usual absorption in the evening paper. "I was going to watch the football games, but." "You'll have to see television as I usually do by snatches,' she smiled. "But the girls will help, and you'll have things done up in no time at all! Oh, I must hurry! Is the car out front?" "Are you driving?" asked Neil. "Why, you haven't driven...." "I haven't forgotten how!" she replied airily, as she put on her coat, lightly kissed each one goodbye, and went out to the car, leaving a rather CHESHIRE CAT speechless and nonplused family behind. ND the lesson was indeed just what she needed! She drank eagerly of the living water, for which she now realized she had thirsted a long time. Concepts were presented which challenged her, and she felt that she really must be religiously mature enough not to be satisfied with the status quo and able to put good intentions into operation. Such a person would not be a nonentity anywhere. She was particularly impressed by the idea: "The religiously mature person has a sense of the glory of life." She recalled how much she had felt this in her girlhood and in the early years of her married life. She must and could bring this sense of glory into her home. Her face was aglow as she expressed to the class leader the joy the lesson had given her and then said goodnight to the serene and happy women all around her. They had been, for the most part, partakers of the satisfying fare of which she, Martha-like, had been depriving herself. As she drove home, she told herself: "I must find out more about this spiritual living. I am so far behind! I really sold my womanly birthright when I thought I was providing well for my family's material needs, at the expense of their spiritual well-being." Her exhilaration was dampened, however, by the conditions which confronted her at home. She had never seen her house so untidy, nor the tempers of her family so unpleasant! Neil was slumped in his big chair, as if in the last state of 169 complete collapse. Tommy was calling for a drink, and the girls were arguing angrily over what program they should see next. "None at all," Edeth told them quietly. "Turn it off." The girls were surprised into silence by her calmness. She usually shouted at them, Edeth remembered with some shame. Melanie, after an appraising glance at her mothers face, pushed in the button. "Come, it's bedtime," Edeth told them, as she guided them toward the bedroom they shared. 'There she noted the utter confusion of school books, toys, clothes, and miscellany. "Put all of your toys into the chest," she directed Melanie. "Lana Ann, arrange your books so that you have those you need for school together." EANTIME, as the girls silently followed her direction, Edeth was helping, too. By the time the youngsters had finished their assigned tasks, the room looked almost tidy. As they undressed, however, clothes began dropping everywhere. "Please put your soiled clothes together into a pile to bring down to the hamper in the morning. Get out the clean clothes you will need and have them ready to wear. Then you can dress more quickly in the morning." "That's a good idea, Mummy," Melanie approved, for she had a sense of order, which, Edeth thought ruefully, hadn't had much encouragement. All the while she had been listening with half her attention, to Tommys demands. The sounds from his room now died out, and she 170 realized that Neil had finally handled that situation, as she had hoped he would. Now the girls were ready for bed, and both literally jumped into the cozy resting places. "No prayers?" Edeth asked. Apologetically, they both crawled out. As they knelt to pray, the mother realized that it had been many months since she had been present at her daughters' going to bed. She walked to the window and looked out and then up. 'The glory of the heavens took her breath away. It was a moonless night, and the dark blue softness was aglow with gently winking gems and scintillating dust. As the girls rose from their devotions, she called softly: "Come here!" They came silently and gazed in awe at the wondrous sight. "The heavens declare the glory of God."" Edeth repeated softly. "He really knows a lot, doesn't he?" Lana Ann affirmed, rather than questioned. "And he is our Father, and so it follows that we can learn a great deal, too," her mother added. Then she kissed her daughters — now very thoughtful little girls in their soft pajamas — and lovingly tucked them in. "It's comforting to have you tuck us into bed," affirmed Lana Ann, and Melanie added her heartfelt, "Oh, yes, indeed, Mummy!" Edeth gave each another big hug in return. As she descended the stairs, she thought, this has truly been a spiritual experience! Neil was stretched out in his chair, his feet on the hassock and his eyes closed. She went over and dropped a light kiss on his lips. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 As he started up, bitter phrases began to tumble from him: "How can a man rest in bedlam? I thought the baby would never settle down." And then, as his wife continued to regard him sweetly, making no reply, he smiled ruefully. "I should have been able to bear up for a couple of hours under what you have to put up with all the time, practically. But, Edeth, don't you think our children ought to be more orderly and less demanding? 'They go through the place like small whirlwinds." "I must surely concentrate upon teaching them order," Edeth replied. "You agree, do you not, that it is the basis of all spiritual living?" "What do you mean?" asked her husband, nonplused. Edeth made herself comfortable on the davenport and then told him of her experience at the meeting that evening. "I am surely going to try to put a spiritual and creative foundation under our lives, since we did not establish it as a rock upon which to build before. Will you help me?" Neil considered what she had said. "You women do not hesitate to set yourselves real tasks, but what you have told me makes sense. Of course Pll help as much as anyone can who has to be pretty well wrapped up in material things." Edeth was very tired, but she got out the Bible — how long it had been since she had last opened it — and turned to The Psalms, from which she read some loved passages. Then, her soul akindle with the beauty of the lofty phrases, she again went to the window to spend a few thoughtful moments enjoying the glory before her uplifted eyes. CHESHIRE CAT The peace and wonder she had invited into her heart enabled her, a little later, to fall sweetly asleep. FTER a day which had been more tranquil than was usual in the Lindley household, Edeth proposed to the family at dinner that they establish a regular Family Hour in their domicile. "This is the evening which has been left open in our ward for such gatherings, but we haven't made much preparation for it. But could we have a family council and plan together how our home can be happier and more orderly and peaceful? Then we'll all try to live up to the rules we make." "T hate rules!" protested Lana Ann, "and I want to go over to Ruthie's tonight." "Just give me a chance," pleaded Edeth. "I know you want our family to be happy. We need to plan for this, using all of our ideas. You come tonight, and if you don't like what we do, you won't need to come again." Why did I promise that? She asked herself, appalled. But Lana Ann agreed, reluctantly. "Well, what shall we do?" "You girls make out a list — a | sort of Ten Commandments for parents. Dad and I will tell you some of our ideas and plans." Intrigued by the assignment, the girls were home early, and Edeth was thrilled to notice two earnest blonde heads bent over pencils and paper. Everyone helped to get dinner over and then the family assembled in the living room. "It looks nice in here!" approved 171 Lana Ann, her eyes going at once to the bouquet of bright flowers Edeth had ordered for the occasion. "And it's so clean and orderly!" added Melanie, and then to her mother, "You look nice, too. Your hair shines like — like the Revereware!" 'The family all laughed together at this homely comparison, and Edeth felt that she was beginning, at least, to be recognized by her family as a person, and smiled her pleasure. Seated around the table, the Lindleys began the serious business of planning for their future peace and happiness. The rules which emerged from their earnest discussion were simple, providing for mutual consideration and spiritual living. 'They would attend to their Church duties — together, would have their family prayers, and provide for sensible 'TV viewing. 'They would do more singing together, with Mother at the piano. "Can Mummy really play?" asked Melanie, wonderingly. Nor did they forget the "creative" activities. 'hey had often talked of making puppets and a stage for showing them. Edeth had even written a script or two. They were all enthusiastic about continuing this project. And there was handwork they could all do to beautify their home. "And let's enjoy our fine records and good books together more often," Neil contributed. Both Lana Ann and Melanie were impressed when the council concluded its work. 'They all felt that peace and order had begun to come into their abode, and Edeth knew 172 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 that she was no longer a nonentity now disappearing, Cheshire Cat was there. Banished from the Lindley houseThe incomplete, now appearing, hold forever. Linda S. Fletcher, 'Tacoma, Washington, tells us that, next to her family, she is most devoted to teaching and writing, with a greater allotment of time and energy to her teaching activities. She has taught in all the auxiliary organizations of the Church open to women. She was the first president of the Seattle Stake Board of the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, and at present she teaches Sunday School and Seminary classes, and is the literature class leader in the 'Tacoma First Ward Relief Society. Mrs. Fletcher is the author of many published poems, short stories, and articles, and two plays. Her work has appeared in the Church magazines and in many other publications. 'Three of her poems have received awards in the Eliza R. Snow Poem Contest. She feels that a place among the women wniters of the Church is an attainment which gives thrilling soul-satisfaction. Mrs. Fletcher's husband is Roland E.. Fletcher, a retired building contractor. They are parents of two children: Dr. J. Eugene Fletcher of the faculty of Eastern Washington State College, and Gweneth F. Liljenquist, a former teacher in the Tacoma schools. There are nine grandchildren. Gay Assertion Ida Elaine James My winter tree is touched with fire — A cardinal zigzagged from a wire And gripped its thread-like tiny feet Around a twig of crystal-sleet. Oh, what intrepid spirit he Must have to brace the winter cold As though to cheer the tree and me, Clinging with such ardent hold, While from the bursting little throat His song denies the doleful note. Tay 'Photographic Associates VIEW FROM THE TREES Looking toward the San Francisco Mountains, from near Flagstaff in the high plateau country of Northern Arizona. ~_— Night Rain Svlvia Probst Young p, 5 Here, in this deep night gloom the wild winds die; And suddenly across the arid plain I hear the marching rhythm of the rain, Rain — silver miracle — gift of the sky, Gift to the dormant seed that now will know The touch of life. Soon tender blades will stand As promise of the fruitage of the land — Each winter tree will leaf again and grow. Night — rain before the golden morning charm Of jeweled droplets glowing... The caress Of crisp, cool air, and sky blue loveliness, The soft serenity that follows storm. With winging birds, my heart is lifted high Rain — harbinger of spring — gift of the sky. Page |72 The Young Child and His Books May C. Hammond Assistant Professor of Education, Brigham Young University There was a child went forth every day, And the first object he look'd upon, that object he became, And that object became part of him for the day or a certain part of the day, Or for many years or stretching cycles of years. —From Leaves of Grass, by Walt Whitman ALT Whitman wrote these \\) words many years ago. Modern educators appreciate their significance perhaps more than did the generation who first heard them. Whitman, in_ this poem, enumerates the many things that become part of this child. He names the parents, the teachers, "all the changes of city and country." He does not specifically mention books, but no one familiar with the ways of a child with a book will doubt that books, also, become part of that child "who goes forth every day." Another poet, Dylan Thomas, made the statement that he was as much a part of the books he had read as of the food he had eaten. Next to people, books offer the most satisfactory companionship and, as do people, they undoubtedly do much to influence the lives of children. A home without books can, indeed, be a_ barren place. Books, in a home where there are children, should be considered as necessary as are the dishes on the table or the food in the refrigerator, and they should be taken as much for granted. The early experiences of children are adult controlled; their experiences with books depend almost entirely upon the parents, and chilPage 174 dren's attitudes toward books are usually the parents' attitudes. If we want children to be receptive and eager toward books, we must, ourselves, show that feeling. Clifton Fadiman, in a recent newspaper article, expressed his satisfaction that the good old custom of grandmother's day, that of families reading together in the home, is becoming popular again. He tells us that mothers, and even fathers, are setting aside a few minutes each day for family reading. Many parents have always recognized the value of reading to children; but the busy lives they and the children lead have often made this valuable home experience seem almost impossible. Young parents often ask, "When should one begin reading to a child, and how long should the reading continue?" Children as young as one year enjoy the rhythm and the sound of words as the mother reads to them. Mother Goose rhymes are excellent material for these first experiences. As soon as the baby can recognize familiar objects in pictures, he is ready for his first picture book. The Baby Book of the Little Golden series is an excellent first book. At two years, many children are THE YOUNG CHILD AND HIS BOOKS Hal Rumel THE WONDER AND DELIGHT OF MOTHER'S READING 175 The Cecil E. Lloyd family, left to right: Susan; Elizabeth; Luacine S. Lloyd, the mother; Jennifer; Tracy, holding baby Margaret. Ready for simple picture books with some text. Marjorie Flack's Ask Mr. Bear is a good example. At three or four years, children enjoy being a member of a family reading group, if the age spread of the group is not more than three or four years. For young children the reading period should not be too long. Older children may enjoy a reading period as long as forty-five minutes. A parent should never read to children if he (or she) is "bored" with the reading. Children are very quick at catching the mood of the reader. An adult should be able to read a beautiful picture book to children with something of a child's wonder and delight. ARENTS may make a special occasion of bringing home a beautiful book. It may be a birthday or a Christmas present. It may even be a surprise "unbirthday' present. Three or four good books a year will soon build a library for a growing family. It is a mistake to 176 provide too many books for the young child. It is much better to have a few really good books which may be read over and over and looked at again and again. Children should grow up with books that are their own, and these books should be good books. Parents often say, "But good books are so expensive." This is true, but if parents can afford a doll or a toy truck at $9.95 and more, surely a good book, now and then, should not be considered an extravagance. For the parent who would like to build a home library but feels inadequate in choosing books, we offer a few suggestions. Choosing a book for a_ child should be a very special matter. We cannot generalize too specifically about age interests. Each child is an individual and should be treated as such. The quality of the book should be high, but being of high quality does not necessarily imply that it is a "classic.'" Perhaps it has not lived long enough. Being new or old makes no difference to children. Peter Rabbit, now nearly 'sixty years old, is still, for young children, as fresh as the dawn. In choosing a new book, however, one should be sure that glitter and sophistication do not take the place of the real and lasting qualities that distinguish fine books. Hans Christian Andersen's story of the jeweled bird and the little brown singer who was the real nightingale, should teach us that in choosing books, as in choosing other values in life, we must "lose not the nightingale." The child's first book is, of course, the picture book. When confronted with the hundreds of books in this category, in book stores, in RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 drugstores, even in supermarkets, the average parent is often totally at sea. At this age, the child's taste in stories and in pictures is not very discriminatory. But this is the golden age for beginning to develop taste and, while some of the inexpensive little books usually brought home are illustrated by good artists, even in selecting these, a parent should have some standards of selection, if she is to avoid the trivial and the worthless. In the past few decades the picture book has come into its own. Many foremost artists and illustrators have turned their attention to C illustrating books for children. Such | well-known artists as Lynd Ward, Robert McCloskey, Louis Slobodkin, Ludwig Bemelmans, and many others are writing and illustrating — children's books. From these artists and others, then, we expect good art and we expect, also, qualities that have special appeal to children. Picture book must be judged from two aspects — the pictures and the text. Good pictures will often sell a book of poor quality, while a fine story may go unnoticed if it lacks appropriate illustrations. Certain qualities in the picture have proved universally popular. Children want an honest interpretation of the text. The technique used will vary according to the nature of the text. An honest interpretation does not imply that the picture must be realistic. The lovely pictures by Marcia Brown for Cinderella are not realistic, but neither is the story. The fairy-like quality of the pictures is in perfect harmony with the story. THE YOUNG CHILD AND HIS BOOKS Children like the pictures to be closely synchronized with the text. Pictures are usually on one page, with the text on the opposite page. As the child hears the story of the old man's search for a cat in Wanda Gag's Millions of Cats, he delights in the rhythmic pictures that show exactly what is taking place as the story unfolds. Children like humor, but the humor must be on their level of understanding. A book often contains humor for adults as well as for children. Ferdinand, by Munro Leaf, is a good example. In reading the book'to children, the reader will note that children take, in all seriousness, many situations that adults find humorous. Children do not respond to satire or to the subtle situations that adults find so funny. Children want action. Just as they demand something doing all the time in the story, they also like pictures that show this life and action. The vigorous, swirling movement in the pictures, as Mary Ann goes to work in Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel, constitutes a great deal of this book's appeal. Children like a storytelling quality that enables them to read the book over and over through the pictures, after having once heard the story. In Angus and the Ducks by Marjorie Flack, the child is never in doubt as to the development of the Story. 'The pictures tell it almost better than the words. Children like detail, but not so much detail that it becomes clutter. The pictures must be kept clear and simple with, perhaps, some little "lovable" details that a child will want to examine again and again. I Of course, children delight in bright colors, but they will settle for black and white, if the other qualities are present. Millions of Cats needs no color to give it popularity. Make Way for Ducklings is very satisfactory, with its action and humor and its lovely brown tones. HE text is fully as important as the pictures and demands as careful evaluation. The plot is usually quite simple but, at the same time, it may involve such essential meanings of life as security, love, approval, and acceptance. The plot is written with drama, the words are expressive and are fraught with meaning. 'The story must sound well. It will be read over and over, and the words must produce a thythmic whole that matches the text. Reading should be effortless because the text moves smoothly. The development should be crystal clear with few sidetracks and no moralizing. 'The plot should be lively and full of action and, in place of moralizing, there is often that bit of "lighthearted wisdom" so beautifully exemplified in Peter Rabbit and in the more modern Finders Keepers. Children get the point without obvious moralizing. Children want, first of all, keen enjoyment in their stories. Generally speaking, the story should have a happy ending. But children must learn to cope with disappointments and unhappiness, so an occasional story with a little sadness children will take in their stride. "The Little Match Girl" and "The Steadfast Tin Soldier" are popular in spite of the sadness. When the sadness is so prolonged as to become 178 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 morbid, as in Oscar Wilde's beautiful that produce fears — mild shivers, story "The Happy Prince," we can _ perhaps, but not fears. Well decide to leave it for older chilPaul Engle expresses so beaudren and adults. Tifully, in this short poem about his One final word seems advisable. Own daughter, the way of a child Children should not have stories with a book. We share it with you. Books were the actual world she touched and knew Where trolls were real and friendly goblins hid Under the bed, and green dragons blew Smoke from their mouths and talked the way she did. Wolves between the covers of a book Wandered all day their safe, familiar land, Brown squirrels came down from colored trees and took Imaginary acorns from her hand. She became those books. She was the girl Locked in the high tower in the gray Scotch highlands. She was the fisher's wife with a crown of pearl. And when they told her of the shipwrecked man Named Crusoe, she became herself the island, The beach, the footprint where the stranger ran. —(Copyright 1945 by Paul Engle and reprinted from American Child, by Paul Engle, by permission of Random House, Inc.) BIBLIOGRAPHY Of Books for Young Children ANDERSEN, Hans Curistian: The Steadfast Tin Soldier, ill. By Marcia Brown, Scribner, 6-10. The Emperor's New Clothes, ill. By Virginia Lee Burton, Houghton, 7-10. The Ugly Duckling, ill. By Johannes Larsen, Macmillan, 6-9. ArBuTHNOT, May Hix, compiler: Time for Fairy Tales, Scott, Foresman. Time for True Tales, Scott, Foresman. BANNERMAN, HELEN: Little Black Sambo, ill. By the author, Lippincott, 4-7. BeMELMans, Lupwic: Madeline, ill. By the author, Viking, 6-9. Madeline's Rescue, ill. By the author, Viking, 6-9. Brown, Marcaret Wise: The Runaway Bunny, ill. By Clement Hurd, Harper, 4-6. Burton, Vircinia Lee: Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel, ill by the author, Houghton, 5-8. The Little House, ill. By the author, Houghton, 5-8. Ets, Marre Hatz: Play With Me, ill. By the author, Viking, 3-6.: Mr. Penny, ill. By the author, Viking, 6-8.: Nine Days to Christmas, ill. By the author, Viking, 9-12. Fracx, Marjorte: Ask Mr. Bear, ill. By the author. Macmillan, 3-7.: Angus and the Ducks, ill. By the author, Doubleday, 4-7. Wait for William, ill. By the author and R. A. Halberg, Houghton, 4-8.: The Story About Ping, ill. By Kurt Wiese, Viking, 5-8. THE YOUNG CHILD AND HIS BOOKS 179 Gac, Wanpa: Millions of Cats, ill. By the author, Coward-McMann, 5-8. Tales from Grimm, trans. And ill. By Wanda Gag, Coward-McCann. Gramatky, Harpie: Little Toot, ill. By the author, Putnam, 5-7. Kiptinc, Rupyarp: Just So Stories, ill. By Nicholas Mardvinoff, Garden City, 8-12. Lear, Munro: The Story of Ferdinand, ill. By Robert Lawson, Viking, 5-. Lipkinp, WiLu1AM: Finders Keepers, ill. By Nicholas Mordvinoff (Will and Nicholas), Harcourt, 4-7. McCtosxey, Ropert: Make Way for Ducklings, ill. By the author, Viking, 4-8. One Morning in Maine, ill. By the author, Viking, 3-7. Time of Wonder, ill. By the author, Viking, 6-9. McDonatp, Go. PEeN (pseud.): Little Lost Lamb, ill. By Leonard Weisgard, Doubleday, 4-8. Mine, A. A.: The World of Pooh, ill. By Ernest Shepherd, Dutton, 8-12. Potter, Beatrix: The Tale of Peter Rabbit, ill. By the author, Warne, 3-8. Rey, H. A.: Curious George, ill. By the author, Houghton, 4-8. Seuss, Dr. (THEODORE GEISsEL): The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins, ill. By the author, Vanguard, 5-10. On Beyond Zebra, ill. By the author, Random, 5-10. Upry, Janice May: A Tree Is Nice, Harper, 4-7. Warp, Lynp: The Biggest Bear, ill. By the author, Houghton, 5-8. To a Yellow Crocus Hazel Loomis You are heart and sound of gray larks, singing, Of melting snow, of freshets rushing by. Gone is a night of winter's dying embers; You are the sunburst in a leaden sky. You are hope — a gentle pathway turning — The first step — the faith that comes before; Gold cups that rise like gleeful children, Expectant, wait outside your door. My door is open wide with wonder — Do winter's scars need healing hands to save? Then, when I see the crocus blooming, I feel his sandal on the wave. Good Morning, Mrs. Romaie! Mabel Law Atkinson and the best to you! — Susan Romaie. Maurine, the second Mrs. Romaie, was straightening the bottom drawer of her husband's chiffonier to make room for his freshlv ironed shirts when she read this greeting on the back of the framed picture of his first wife she found beneath the odds and ends hastily stored away for further sorting. At the sight of the beautiful face, she was surprised to feel little twinges of jealousy gnawing within her, twinges she thought she had conquered entirely before her marriage. She stopped short and told herself sternly, "Maurine Romaie, you must eradicate these small jealousies. You knew Robert loved Susan when you married him. 'That was one reason why you loved him, for deep in your soul you knew he would likewise love and cherish you. And you know the surest way to keep Robert close is to open your heart to Susan, as well as to her children, whom you love already. You cannot, being you, settle for anything less." After a few long moments Mautine had herself in hand and emerged from her struggle triumphantly, saying, "You are far too lovely, Susan, to be tucked away. Robert, bless him, must have put you in the drawer thinking I would rather not have you looking at us." She was smiling softly when a new thought paled her cheeks, "Suppose Robert, himself, did not Page 180 Gia morning, Mrs. Romaie, want to be comparing us!" It was only a small struggle this time, for with calmness in her voice, she said aloud, "You shall not be hidden away, Susan. What matter if you are more beautiful than I? What if you were Robert's first love? He has love enough for us both. He is still yours, Susan, but he is mine now, too." A faint smile curved her lips as she continued, "Shall we call him ours?" The greeting lured her to a second reading and a third. Then she looked long and earnestly into the face of the first Mrs. Romaie. A beautiful and strong face it was. In it she read love and laughter, warm friendliness and understanding. 'To think Robert had chosen her after such a lovely wife had passed away a year before, leaving him with a four-year-old daughter and a threeyear-old son! "Good morning to you, Susan. I do so want to be friends. Help me, will you?" Susan's serene smile reassured her as she placed the picture on the dresser. "But why did you write such a greeting? It must be your writing, for it isn't Robert's, and it does have your name signed to it." That night, after the children were asleep, Maurine asked, "Robert, why did Susan say good morning to herself?" Robert's eyes had a startled expression, as he looked up from the book he was reading, "Did you say what I heard, Maurine?" "Yes, exactly what you heard. Do GOOD MORNING, MRS cael you know why Susan said good morning and wished herself the best?" At his uncomprehending expression she arose and said, "Come, I'll show you. But tiptoe past the children's room." WHEN the two stood in front of the dresser, Maurine spoke, and the twinges of jealousy were but tiny electric rivers running up her spine, "She is beautiful, Robert, and so lovely. But tell me why she wrote as she did on the back of her picture." Robert turned the picture over and read the message. His eyes still retained their bewildered look as he answered, "That is Susan's writing. Strange I hadn't noticed it was there before. Guess I never looked at the back. And if Mrs. Moore, our housekeeper, ever did she said nothing. She seemed to think it best never to mention Susan. She never knew how I longed to talk about her. And she was not one to be a teller of tales outside the homes where she worked. I put the picture away the morning we were married out of consideration for you." "Darling!" Maurine kissed his forehead, then spoke softly, her eyes glowing, "I think I know the reason. Perhaps it seemed a miracle to her, too, that you should choose her from all the women you knew. Perhaps she wrote what her heart was singing, that she was Mrs. Romaie. You see my heart sings the same way. It will always be a miracle, your choosing me to take her place beside you. Not her place, really, for always I want you to keep a special place in your heart just for her." 181 Robert kissed her gently. His voice held overtones of reverence as he spoke, "There is plenty of room left for you, my dear. I have watched you, Maurine, in_ these weeks since our marriage, watched your struggle to overcome yourself in truly taking Susan's place. I know it hasn't been easy, but you have managed it. Always you have been able to conquer your natural little jealousies or worries or imagined worries, and kept sweet and smiling. But don't try too hard, my dear, for I love you for your few frailties, if they can be called such. The children adore you. As I watch you caring for them tenderly, I choke up a bit. How did such a good thing happen to me, little Miracle Mother? 'That is the name I have chosen for you, darling." "How lovely, Robert!" Her eyes filled, "And I didn't know you had noticed. I thought I had concealed my little discouragements and let only my thankfulness for our marriage, our good marriage, shine through. For my own sake, for my own happiness, I must conquer myself and be the wife and mother I desire to be, and make Susan a part of her children's lives." "You are beautiful, Maurine, with your deep spirituality illuming your countenance. How blessed I am in having you! You give of yourself so freely. You seem to truly love little Mike and Francie." "They are yours, you know, yours and Susan's." Impulsively she turned to the picture and said, "I love your babies, Susan, and your Robert very, very much. You don't mind, do you?" 182 HE next night after Maurine had tucked the children in and was telling them a bedtime story, Francie's eyes sparkled and she exclaimed, "Why, there's Mommy!" "You mean Mother," Michael said gravely, indicating Maurine. "No, [mean Mommy! 'There, on our dresser! Her picture! That is Mommy, Mike, but you don't remember her very well." She spoke soothingly to her little brother, then burst into tears, jumped out of bed, and ran to the dresser where she cried, "Oh, Mommy, I miss you!" Quietly, Maurine gathered her in her arms, and little Michael, too, and explained gently, "I put the picture on your dresser to make you happy and to keep you remembering your beautiful first mother. You will always remember her, Francie, and we must help Michael to know her. She is still loving you, even though she is with Heavenly Father, And she would want you to keep on loving her." Maurine rocked them until Michacl fell asleep, then whispered to Francie, "We better put him in his little bed now." "Let me look once more at Mommy," Francie whispered, then said sleepily, "Mother, ''m glad you brought Mommy to our room. Wont feel alone now with her smiling at me. See, she's smiling at you, too. 'That means she likes you. I won't miss her too much any more. You are our mother now and I love? You. "I love you, too, Francie, very much. 'The picture can always be yours. ['m glad I have a little daughter and a son." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 year sped swiftly, a year filled to the brim with joys and little sorrows; with laughter and a few tears; with welcoming a new little son and building a family held together by the cords of love and unselfishness. How precious to have three children and Robert to love! And Susan also! For through the trying hours, her sweet understanding face came more and more to give her healing; and her cheerful, "Good morning, Mrs. Romaie, and the best to you," often gave the lift she needed to go happily through the days that did not have enough hours to accomplish all the tasks to be done. "Francie is such a help, and little Mike, too," she said gently to Susan one day. "And I'm keeping them near to you. Francie is going to look like you, beautiful and gracious, and Mike is so like our Robert. And I hope you like my little Bobbie." There were tears in Maurine's eyes on the late August morning when she stood before Susan's picture, after finishing tidying up the room which belonged entirely to Francie now; tears bright as diamonds, as she said, "Susan, your little girl started school today. I wish you could have seen her with her hair in ringlets and her eyes shining. She loved her pretty new dress. I made her four new ones. You should have seen her eyes as she watched me sewing them. No, it wasn't too much extra work, for she took care of Bobbie like a reguJar little mother. "Shall I let you in on a secret, Susan? When Michael gets old enough, I shall make him four new shirts. His eyes were so wistfully expectant as he asked, 'Mother, in GOOD MORNING, MRS ROMAIE! One more year will you make me four new, pretty dresses like Francie's to start school with?' that I smiled and answered, "Yes, Michael, if you want me to then, I will?" T was two years and another little son later when Maurine, after making Mike's bed, entered Francie's room to find the bed made and the room in perfect order. She looked earnestly in the face of Susan and said happily, "You are still very much a part of us. This morning as he left for his first day at school, Michael said, 'I wish Mommy could see me now. She would think I have a pretty new shirt.' No, Susan, I did not need to talk him out of having me make him new little dresses, for this summer he confided, 'I guess I'll have you make me four new shirts. Boys don't wear dresses. Such a charming little man he is, Susan! And baby Niel is adorable and has Robert's eyes and firm chin. Think of it, a daughter and three sons already! Was ever a woman so blessed!'' Time ceaselessly rolled on, and the years wrought their miracles and brought their problems. There was the time Michael boasted to his two brothers that he was wearing a suit bought in a store, while theirs were homemade. Mother-wise, Maurine had let the matter drop when Niel had smiled angelically and answered, "But Mother made ours!" and soon the three were the best of pals again. 'The time Maurine found a sobbing Francie kissing her Mommy's picture and saying, "Mother is too busy to hold me on her lap and kiss me any more." Maurine had tiptoed away and solved her problem by giving in- 183 creased affection and _ attention. When Robert brought friends home to dinner and found the house untidy and the meal not prepared, she had despaired of ever measuring up to Susan's efficiency, but her husband's laughter and his help had taken the tragedy from the experience. His siege of pneumonia brought her near the breaking point, but it gave her a clearer perspective of how dear he was to her and his family. It was then that Susan's compassionate face had assured her all would be well and the love between them deepened. Maurine felt Susan's eyes had an added glow of understanding the morning she sat before her in Francie's room with her third child, a baby daughter, in her arms, and spoke reverently, "Oh, Susan, you should see her! How near to heaven she has brought us. Our Robert called me 'Little Mu§racle Mother' again after we returned home from Sunday School and fast meeting yesterday. I hope you know the joy we experienced. Why? Because in Priesthood meeting, Robert ordained Michael a deacon and he passed the sacrament in Sunday School and in sacrament meeting. (He has a new Scout uniform all ready and waiting. ) "And, Susan, Robert blessed our baby. We named her after you. You don't mind, do you?" HE baby was asleep in her arms, so Maurine laid her on Francie's bed, then again sat before Susan and mused thoughtfully: "She is a clean, sweet, and beautiful girl, Susan, your little Francie. Fourteen! Imagine! And bubbling over with joy and laughter and charm. She 184 was yours before she was mine, so help me keep her always as sweet as she is now." Susan's eyes and her smile seemed to say serenely, "And she was God's before she belonged to me. The three of us, along with Robert, should do all nght." Maurine picked up the portrait and dusted it with her apron. When a fleck or two of dust refused to yield, she slipped the picture from its frame to dust the inside of the glass. As she did so a_ letter dropped in her lap. "One of Robert's I imagine," she said as she picked it up. To her surprise it was addressed: To the Second Mrs. Romaie. She stared incredulously then spoke, "Why, the letter is for me!"" Quickly she opened the envelope, removed the sheets and read rapidly, her eyes fairly racing over the words. Pale with emotion, she spoke in an awed whisper, "Susan, you wrote this ten years ago, less than a month before your death." Robert had told Maurine they had both known her days were numbered for almost a year before leukemia finally claimed her life. "How brave you were, Susan!" Maurine's voice was gentle, "And how unselfish! No wonder you seemed to leave the sweetness of your spirit here in this home." 'Tears of joy were flowing as Maurine reread the letter, slowly savoring every word: T° you, the second Mrs. Romaie, I am writing this. I leave in your keeping my greatest treasures, my husband and my children. They will love you. How do I know? Because my Robert will choose the best possible person to take my place in the home and be a mother RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 to our Francie and little Michael. And be assured he will love you. You will have a more difficult task than I have known, for you will have to weld two families into one. How I shall love you! If you should get discouraged, remember I, too, have known discouragement. Perhaps at times you will experience fleeting small jealousies because of me, as I did because of Robert's mother, wondering if I could ever measure up to her. But they will pass, for Robert's love is deep and tender and abiding. Now, dear future mother of this home, I say this to you in love and humility and gratitude: Here is my little Francie. Take her, mold the pliant clay of her soul into a lovely woman. Keep her as pure as the hlies in canyon streams and guide her into the temple, where she will be married to a man likewise pure. And here is little Michael. Tenderly lead him to see the beauties of creation. As he grows, teach him to know God and to love the gospel and all people. Finish the task I have begun. Robert will help you, and our Father will assist you both. My Robert I leave you also. Enjoy all of him, his deep voice, his laugh that is music; explore the depths of his soul and know the meaning of companionship. I bequeath these treasures to you; and someday may you and Robert, together, return to me with our children. May my greeting to you on the back of this picture help you to accept each day's challenge with a song in your heart. I have a picture of you in my mind. During the long months of knowing, I have created an image of you. Shall I tell you that you are beautiful, that the beauty of your soul shines through your features, and that I know you are lovely? Shall I tell you your name? I am very sure of it, for it is Mother. So good morning, Mrs. Romaie, and the best to you! — Susan. AURINE sat forgetful of time, letting her being fill with peace. Then she spoke softly and her words were like a prayer: "Dear, dear GOOD MORNING, MRS ROMAIE! Susan: Morning sings in my heart. I will continue to love and cherish your treasures... Our treasures. And when the time comes, I hope to send back to you, a daughter, a mature woman innocent in wisdom; a son who is a man, clean and purposeful; and our Robert who will be the Robert you knew, only magnified. "To think you thought of me, the second Mrs. Romaie, even before you left us! 'Thank you, Susan! Thank you!" She put the picture back in its frame and in its place on the dresser and the precious letter in her pocket to share with Robert later. "Nearly time to prepare lunch," she said softly as she looked at sleeping little Susie. "T'll lie down and rest just five minutes." 185 'HUSH, Daddy!" It was Francie who held her finger to her lips as her father came in at noon. "When I came from school, I found Mother and Susie asleep in my room. I'm getting lunch on for us. Mike, Bobbie, and little Niel will be coming soon." Robert kissed her tenderly as he said, "My little girl is growing into a beautiful and thoughtful young woman." Quietly he entered the bedroom and stood for a long moment looking down at the two loved sleepers. Gently he touched his small daughter's cheek and kissed Maurine lightly as he whispered, "Little Miracle Mother!" His Art Gladvs Hesser Burnham When I behold the sunset's flame Reflected in the lake's calm face, And know the hills' encircling arms Protect with strong embrace This tranquil scene, I feel the might Of loving thoughts around my heart, For God's great canvas spread for me Insures my knowledge of his art. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, March 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF ALL NATIONS" CLARA BARTON OF THE RED CROSS: It will be interesting to our readers to learn that we have seen and conversed with the world-famous Clara Barton, of the National and International Red Cross.... Miss Barton's health is much improved since last spring, when we visited her at her home in Glen Echo.... At that time she showed us all her jewels and badges of honor given by the great people of different countries, in recognition of her grand services in times of great distress and calamities.... Miss Barton is a quiet person, very unassuming, makes no pretentions to greatness or honor and is reluctant to admit that she has done anything worthy of such praise and commendation.... Her only object... Has been to help suffering humanity. —KEditorial VISITS BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY: In the society official visits are made by at least two members of the General Board from time to time to conferences of the society in different localities, and uniform instruction is given, so that all may work in harmony... Each stake receiving at least one or two visits a year, even though the distance is great. During the year 1899 the branches of the society in England, Scotland and Wales were visited, and more recently the Scandinavian countries have been visited by sisters from Utah. Mrs. Lucy B. Young was appointed while residing temporarily in Germany to preside over the branches in that country and also in Switzerland. The branches in the Sandwich Islands are also presided over by a president from Utah. —Official Report WORK OF WOMEN It is a happy faculty Of women far and wide, To turn a cot or palace Into something else beside; Where brothers, sons and husbands With willing footsteps come, A place of rest where love abounds, A perfect kingdom — home. ALPINE STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE: The stake officers were all present and all the presidents of the wards.... President Standring welcomed the sisters and was pleased to see so many present. President Sarah Foutz reported Pleasant Grove Ward. The sisters are laying up wheat and relieving the poor... Were united in their labors. President Martha Woolley reported Linden. They are a small ward with sixty-one members.... President Isadora Beck reported Manila. They are all united and have good meetings. Visit the sick and help the poor. American Fork First Ward reported by President Orpha Robinson. They had bought five tons of coal for the poor. Page 186 RS. MATTIE C. SANFORD, eighty-three years old and a member of the Emerson Ward Relief Society, Salt Lake City, won an award just before Christmas classifying her as the top international woman in stereo (three-dimensional) photography. Eight men have received the same award, presented through the Photographic Society of America, the largest photographic association in the world and international in scope. Mrs. Sanford is the association's official Utah representative and attends every national convention. She took up photography as a hobby when she retired from schoolteaching. She still tutors many pupils. OAN SUTHERLAND, thirtyfive-year-old Australian soprano, made her debut at the Metropolitan Opera House, November 26, 1061, in Lucia di Lammermoor. Seats sold at $25 each. The entire audience rose and shouted acclaim in the most sensational debut in decades. Miss Sutherland made a record before Christmas, singing in The Messiah with the London Symphony and Chorus. "Her soaring soprano... Makes the rendition especially memorable," wrote one critic. Her very recent recording of Lucia has been called "the best ever made." Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon IRGINIA TANNER'S_ Children's Dance Theatre group, of Salt Lake City, Utah, which won national recognition last summer when appearing in Massachusetts and New York City, will dance in Seattle, Washington, next spring, in connection with its World Fair. The Dance League of the Seattle Symphony Orchestra made the contract with them. Miss Tanner has been asked to present at least one number which reflects some aspect of Mormon philosophy or history. RS. ANNE FREMANTLE is a British, Oxford-educated novelist, critic, and biographer. She now lives in the United States and is author of Desert Calling. Number of women on the international scene who are champions in various sports and are also noted for their beauty and their culture are: Francine Breaud, French ski champion; Khuko Inoue, Japanese champion horsewoman; Molly Wallace, red-ribbon Dublin horseshow winner; Gloria Barcenas, top golfer in Spain, where women have only recently been permitted to share the links; Countess Jacqueline de Fels, French shooting expert; Italian Princess, Doris Pignatelli, water skiing prize winner; Lori -Miller, of California, American skier. Page 187 CD _ EDITORIAL —~9 VOL. 49 MARCH 1962 "We Must Cherish One Another" This institution is a good one. We must cherish one another, watch over onc another, and gain instruction, that we may all sit down in Heaven together (Lucy Mack Smith). N the 24th of March in the year 1842, the mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith addressed the sisters present at the second meeting of Relief Society. 'The organization was one week old, but its purposes and prospects were already well advanced, and a realization of its sacred mission was apparent in the words and in the work of those sisters who had been blessed to begin the weaving of a long enduring and radiant tapestry. How well Mother Lucy Smith understood the basic purpose, when she said "that we may all sit down in Heaven together." The sisters seemed to know that Relief Society was no ordinary organization, for the Prophet had called them together "after a pattern of the Priesthood." 'Thus called, the members of the first Relief Society turned their busy hands to the nearest practical needs, and their hearts to the cherishing of one another. For centuries women had needed an organization whereby their yearnings for rendering service might be strengthened and multiplied by united effort. In the times of the former days upon the earth, there were many women, such as those spoken of in the First Epistle to Timothy, who "brought up children Page 188 lodged strangers... Relieved the afflicted... Diligently followed every good work." 'There was the beloved Dorcas who lived in the city of Joppa and made clothing for the poor, a woman who was "full of good works and almsdeeds which she did." In Rome there were Phebe and Priscilla who opened their homes to the meetings of the saints, and in Thyatira, there was Lydia, a seller of purple, "whose heart the Lord opened." These women were of the lineage of devotion which has characterized noble women of all ages. Rejoicing in their opportunities for service in the restored Church, the women of Kirtland and Far West and Nauvoo observed with diligence each opportunity to make an offering for the welfare of the Church. Some offerings were small — a pound of butter for the poor, a bushel of corn for the needy, red yarn for making mittens. Others opened their homes to orphaned children, to helpless ones among the aged, to converts without means. To those who longed for a wider held of service, for growth and development through association with their sisters, the organization of Relief Society on March 17, 1842, came as the fulfillment of a great desire — EDITORIAL — as the wide doors opened upon their future. Then a woman might say in full truth, "Now is my hand made strong and my arm extended." The prints of those footsteps along the streets of Nauvoo on that springtime day one hundred and twenty years ago have never ceased to set a pattern in the journey of women toward earthly fulfillment and eternal progress; those faces, glowing with purpose and promise, were so radiant that a lasting joy now shines upon the faces of thousands of Relief Society women in many lands. 'Those voices which sang "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning" were, in their intent and spirit, the lineal progenitors of voices raised by the Singing Mothers of these latter days. On that springtime day, in that distant year, the great river that flowed past Nauvoo 189 and surged in flood tide to the sea, was compared by the first President of Relief Society to the new organization of women. And now, one hundred and twenty years beyond that March day in Nauvoo, the world-wide sisterhood, the circle of charity and companionship, is known for good works in three hundred and fortyeight stakes of Zion — in more than three thousand wards — in hundreds of mission branches throughout the world. At this time and always, we remember that joy and service are one, that deep comfort and fulfillment come to us through following the words of the Savior which he spoke in Nazareth of Galilee: "He hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted to set at liberty them that are bruised" (Luke 4:8). —V. P. C. ~}- Christine H. Robinson Released From the General Board of Relief Society T is with a sense of loss that the General Board of Relief Society announces the release of Christine H. Robinson from the General Board as of January 31, 1962. This release was necessitated by her recent appointment by the First Presidency to serve as a member of the Adult Correlation Committee of the Church Co-ordinating Council. Sister Robinson was appointed to the General Board of Relief Society on May 26, 1948. At the time of this appointment she had had fifteen years of experience in Relief Society work in both ward and stake organizations, which, with her great leadership ability and creative talents have enabled her to give valuable service as a member of the General Board. Sister Robinson has given devoted service on many General Board committees, particularly to the theology, work meeting, convention, conference, and visiting teacher committees, and for the past six years she has written the visiting teacher messages. She wrote the home management discussions "The Art of Homemaking" for 1950-51. She also prepared the script for the visiting teacher film "Unto the Least of These." Her 190 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 humility, spirituality, creativity, and discriminating taste have been valuable in forwarding the work of the General Board among the Relief Societies throughout the world. Sister Robinson has also served as a representative of the General Board on many community-sponsored organizations. She is at present serving as an individual on the boards of the Community Service Council and the United Fund, and is first vice-president of Traveler's Aid. Although the loss of the work of Sister Robinson will be great, it is realized that her outstanding capabilities will be of enduring worth as she assumes the new calling on the Church Co-ordinating Council. The love and respect and best wishes of not only the members of the General Board but also the sisters throughout the Church are extended to Christine Hinckley Robinson as she leaves the Relief Society General Board for this new, important assignment. Notes TO THE FIELD Index for 1961 Relief Society Magazine Available OPIES of the 1961 index of The Relief Society Magazine are available and may be ordered from the General Board of Relief Society, 76 North Main Street, Salt Lake City 11, Utah. The price is twenty cents, including postage. Relief Society officers and members who wish to have their 1961 issues of The Relief Society Magazine bound may do so through The Deseret News Press, 33 Richards Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah. (See advertisement on page 231.) 'The cost for binding the twelve issues in a permanent cloth binding is $2.75, leather $4.20, including the index. It is recommended that wards and stakes have one volume of the.1961 Magazines bound for preservation in ward and stake Relief Society libraries. THE RED CROSS — A UNIVERSAL SYMBOL Fred A. Bantz Volunteer National Co-Chairman for Members and Funds THE Red Cross is perhaps the most nearly universal of all lay symbols — the one most welcomed by and recognized by all mankind. In every section of the Nation, in every corner of the world, the Red Cross stands for neighborly help wherever there is human need. For United States servicemen, servicewomen, and their families, beset by problems resulting from separation, the Red Cross provides friendly counsel and guidance and, in emergencies, rapid communication and financial assistance. It performs these acts by direct mandate of its Congressional charter. For disaster sufferers, also by charter mandate, the Red Cross is the source of food, shelter, clothing, medical and nursing care, and help in returning to their pre-disaster way of life. For the ill and injured, the Red Cross collects more than 2,500,000 pints of blood a year; distributes most of it to hospitals, and uses the rest also for the benefit of mankind — by making blood products available to hospitals and health agencies, and for research into new uses of blood. To help keep Americans safe and healthy, the Red Cross provides safety and home nursing instruction. Last year it trained young people and adults who earned over 3,000,000 certificates by completing its courses in first aid, small craft, and water safety, care of the sick and injured, and mother and baby care. The Red Cross provides opportunities for young people in serving with adults in its programs, and thereby helps train the nation's youth for tomorrow's leadership. Some 2,000,000 volunteers of all ages participate in Red Cross services. By working with its sister societies in other lands, the American Red Cross helps meet human needs throughout the world. Support of the Red Cross, with money, volunteer service, and donations of blood, will give you a sense of participation in its great work. P+ Announcing the Special April Short Story Issue The April 1962 issue of The Relief Society Magazine will be the special short story number, with four outstanding short stories being presented. Look for these stories in April: "The Mischief Makers," by Dorothy Clapp Robinson "Timber," by Ilene H. Kingsbury "A Name Before the Lord," by Ellen Taylor Hazard "The Loving Faces," by Betty Lou Martin Page 191 So Great the Calling Betty Lou Martin HE old model sedan drove slowly down the gravel road. 'The tires made a crunching sound on the loose gravel. Eleanor Coleman was thoughtful as she maneuvered the car along, and the quiet beauty of the fall day did not even penetrate her thoughts. Why did they have to ask Chris? She thought. 'There are so many things that we need to do now, and besides our children are so young. Why, Jess is only ten, Sherri eight, Barbara five, and the twins two. Eleanor frowned. Chris is too young to be a bishop. He will just have to tell them no. She knew that Chris felt very humble at being asked to fulfill such a vital position in the Church, and that he fully realized the weight that would be put upon his shoulders. Chris had known from the beginning that Eleanor was against it, and that if he accepted the calling that it would be without her consent. ) Once again Eleanor reviewed her thoughts as she drove in front of their white frame house. It was a small house, with a white picket fence in front of it. The yard was neat, but Eleanor just hadn't found the time to plant the flowers that she wanted. The house itself would soon need another coat of paint, and they needed to add another bedroom. Chris was planning to do that himself in the spring. Eleanor sighed. It was difficult enough to get things accomplished without Chris taking on more responsibility. "Mother, Mother!" Barbara ran Page 192 with her arms outstretched toward her mother, "I didn't mean to." Eleanor knelt down beside the child. "Now wait just a minute. What's the matter here?" Eleanor wiped the child's tear-stained face. "Tl tell you what's the matter." Jess marched out of the house. "She picked up your rosebud vase and threw it, and she broke it all to pieces." "T didn't mean _ to, Barbara sobbed. Knowing her mischievous ten-yearold, Eleanor surmised that Jess had done something to provoke the incident. "All right, Jess, I know that Barbara didn't break the vase just for the fun of it. What did you do to her?" After Eleanor had straightened the situation out between the children, she began preparing supper. Chris would be home early, and then he had to return to the store to do some extra work for his employer, Mr. Harrington. Before Chris left the house that night he turned to Eleanor, "Eleanor, I've got to come to a decision about being bishop. You know how I feel about it, dear, but I don't want to do anything that will displease you. After all, P'll need your help and support very much in this calling. ['ll have to rely upon you a great deal." Chris stopped speaking and looked at his pretty, darkhaired wife. "You know very well how I feel about it, Chris. I told you the other night. I think that you are too young. Later on, when we're older, Mother," SO GREAT THE CALLING I'd say fine, but nght now I just can't. There are so many things that we need for the children and the house needs fixing. I just can't see you tying yourself down at this time." Eleanor turned her back on Chris, and she heard him quietly close the front door. Eleanor scraped the supper dishes and put them in the sink, and then leaning upon the cupboard, she bent her head and sobbed. She didn't know why she felt so antagonistic toward Chris' becoming a bishop; she just did. They had worked so hard and tried to save as best they could, but it had been one thing after another. First Jess had to have his appendix removed; then Chris was injured on the job; Shertie had to have her tonsils out; and now this. Suddenly the whole ordeal seemed to close in upon her, and for the first time since she could remember, exhausted, she left the supper dishes in the sink, put the children to bed, and then retired herself. She knew that Chris would be disappointed that she hadn't waited up for him. HE next thing that Eleanor remembered, she heard Jess and Sherrie tip-toeing about the kitchen. "My goodness, what time is it?" she called as she hurriedly jumped out of bed. C "It's almost time to leave for school," Sherrie replied, unconcerned. "Daddy told us to be very quiet and not to wake you up." "Tm sorry, Mom," Jess added. "I didn't think that we were being too noisy. The twins are still asleep, and Barbara has had her breakfast. Daddy fixed our breakfast for us just before he left for work." 193 Eleanor looked about her. The dishes that she had left in the sink the night before had been done and carefully put away. She felt a tinge of guilt surge through her. She knew that Chris worked extra hard, too, and that at a time like this, she should not burden him with extra problems. It was very difficult to concentrate on her work that day. Barbara and the twins seemed to get on Eleanor's nerves; usually they didn't bother her at all even at their noisiest. Finally, in desperation, she reached for the telephone. "Hello, Mother, would you mind taking the children for a couple of hours? I have some things that I want to do, and I just can't see taking them with me." "Of course, dear," was the warm reply. "I'm going to bake some cookies this afternoon, and the children can help me." "Oh, you don't know what you're in for, Mother," Eleanor commented, shaking her head. "Yes, I do, dear, and I think that I'm going to enjoy it.' Eleanor's mother added, "Is something wrong, Eleanor? You don't seem to be yourself." "Nothing's wrong, Mother. It's just that I'm a little tired. We have been so busy lately." "Well, it will do you good to leave the children with me for a couple of hours. Twin boys are enough to make anyone tired." Eleanor spent the first hour looking at material for a new dress for each of the girls, and then she browsed around the dress shops looking at the new styles, knowing very well that she could not afford a new dress. Slowly the tension of 194 the past few days seemed to leave, and she began to feel more relaxed once again. She even enjoyed the brisk, fresh air of the golden fall day. N the way back to her mother's house, Eleanor decided to stop at the supermarket along the way. As she was wheeling her cart down the aisle, she saw Sister Carter walking toward her. "My, aren't these stores lovely, Eleanor? My goodness, we certainly have a variety of things to pick from nowadays." Sister Carter smiled. "I don't see you doing your shopping here very often." "No, I just don't have the time to drive clear over here too often, with the children and all that I have to do, Sister Carter." Eleanor paused. "How is everything with you and Brother Carter?" "Oh, just fine, dear. We both keep very busy, but happily so. Brother Carter does so enjoy his new position in the high council of the stake." Sister Carter went on talking. "I suppose now that Bishop Sloane is moving they will be reorganizing the ward." Eleanor panicked momentarily, and then gained her composure. "Yes, I guess that they will. I don't envy the bishop that they choose, however." "Why, my dear?" Sister Carter seemed surprised. "It's the most satisfying experience any person can ever ask for. My husband was bishop years ago when we were just rearing our family. I know that the Lord blessed us and helped us. I believe that we were more happy and contented at that period of our lives than we ever have been since. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 Even though our children were young, we all worked together and helped one another. We made a game of thinking of ways we could help Brother Carter out to make his position just a little lighter. The children did things in the home that ordinarily would have been left for their daddy to do, and together we all progressed and were rewarded greatly. I sometimes wish that we could go back to that time in our lives, but then there isn't any good in wishing for that. Time moves along too swiftly." Sister Carter seemed to be deep in her own thoughts. "T guess that you do get out of it just what you put into it," Eleanor said more for her own benefit than for Sister Carter's. "That's very true, Eleanor. When a bishop has good counselors and the members of a ward really get behind them and support them, there just isn't any limit to what they can do." Sister Carter glanced at her watch. "Oh, my goodness, I didn't realize what time it is. Brother Carter is sitting out in the car waiting for me. He will think that I got lost." Sister Carter called back to Eleanor, "It's been nice talking to you." "T've enjoyed talking to you, too, Sister Carter," Eleanor called to the lovely, soft-voiced lady. "Just how much you'll never truly realize," Eleanor added to herself. HE anguish of the past few days was forgotten, as Eleanor drove toward her mother's home to get her children. Now she felt that she could plan for their future. She knew how very much Chris would SO GREAT THE CALLING need her help to sustain him, and she promised herself then that she would do all that she could to be an asset to him. The children's constant chattering did not bother her at all that night as she prepared Chris' favorite dishes. She even found herself humming as she went about her tasks in the kitchen. "Mother," Barbara inquired, "how come we are going to eat in the dining room tonight?" Jess interrupted, "Yes, and how come we are going to use your best silverware and dishes?" "Yes, and we never use your best tablecloth except at Christmastime," Barbara added. "Something funny is going on around here." Eleanor couldn't help smiling. What an inquisitive lot of children she had. "It is a surprise for Daddy." "T don't care what the surprise is." Jess eyed the big chocolate cake on the table. "I just want a great big piece of this cake, after I have some fried chicken, that is." "That you shall have, my young man, if you will help Mother get the children ready for supper."' Eleanor playfully ruffled Jess' hair. "Barbara, you can help me here in the kitchen, okay?" When dinner was ready, Eleanor put on a fresh print dress, combed her black hair, and lightly touched her lips with lipstick. She was excited and happy. Her cheeks had a rosy glow. That night when Chris entered his home, soft candlelight surrounded him, and soft music played in the background. 'In one fleeting glance he took in his surroundings, and then his eyes rested upon Eleanor. 195 "What's the occasion?" He couldn't hide the surprise upon his face. "Are we expecting company for supper?" Eleanor took her husband to one side, "Chris, I feel that I owe you an apology for acting the way that I have. I'm very pleased that the Lord wants you for his work. I know that I behaved very badly, and well — this is just my way of showing you how wrong I was." 'There were tears glistening in Eleanor's eyes. Chris put his arms about his wife. "Don't think I don't understand what you were going through. I just know that everything will turn out fine. I didn't want to turn down such a wonderful calling for your sake and the children's sake. I know that the Lord will guide us and bless us." "T know it, too, Chris," Eleanor said, squeezing her husband's hand. "With you by my side, Eleanor, I feel even more assured. I'm so thankful for you." Chris' expression showed his humility and love. Jess marched into the room, stood before his parents, and placed his hands upon his hips. "What we want to know is, what's the surprise for Daddy? No one seems to know around here." "Yes, they do, dear. Your father and I know, and someday soon we will tell you children." "Oh," Jess said, satisfied with his mother's answer. "Can't we eat now, Mom? 'That chocolate cake sure does look good, and I'm too hungry to care about anybody's surprise." Eleanor and Chris laughed as they clasped hands and. Together walked into the dining room to join their children at the table. About Grandmothers Linnie F. Robinson AST summer I was at a lovely garden party, and by the time the delicious food was all eaten and everyone had met everyone else and had chatted together, we were in a mood for music. The hostess asked her young daughter to play some records of familiar songs and lead the group in singing together. Accordingly, the daughter complied, but in the first song (which must have been her very first try out-of-doors), her voice sounded thin, as did the voices of the others, which were also a bit too far away for best results. She began to waver and looked rather uncertain about going on. 'The mother, who is not an accomplished singer herself, stood perfectly still and smilingly expected her daughter to hang on with her job; but the grandmother, with the priority of age, moved out of the crowd nearer to the grandchild's side and joined her own voice with the granddaughter's, as if it were something they did all the time. The granddaughter rallied immediately, and the singing went off famously. But at the end of the singing, I saw the granddaughter squeeze her grandmother's hand, and I saw the smile the granddaughter received — there was perfect understanding between them. I have another dear friend who has a number of granddaughters, small and large, each one distinctly different but equally lovely. I am often invited to her daughter's home with her when they are having guests. Always there is one who comes to my friend for love and Page 196 creeps into her arms. This one, just five, is an exquisite child, almost too beautiful, and very sensitive. On one occasion I heard her say to her grandmother, "Sometimes when Mommy is cross I love you best." And I heard my friend answer, "I know, dear, that is just the way I felt when I was about your age, but I think you are growing up beautifully, just like a little lady, and I think you do everything your mother wishes, and you get better every year. I can see that before long Mommy won't even need to get cross ever, will she, love?" She kissed the child's forehead, and the little one was healed of her wound whether real or imaginary, and because of the grandmother's words, she felt better towards herself and acted like a little lady all evening. As we were leaving I heard the child's mother say to my friend, "Haven't the children been sweet? Before you came I spoke sharply to Sistie — I was nervous — I wish I wouldn't. She is such a good little girl — as they all are." My friend said: "I think you surely do well, my dear. It looks as if you get closer to your children all the time. Remember to breathe a little prayer when you get nervous or worried, and you will see how calm you can remain." Another time, a petulant young teenager, wanting complete independence, told my friend that she could hardly stand to practice any more and was going to quit. Her grandmother said, "You know, my ABOUT GRANDMOTHERS dear, that is the way I felt when I was your age, and | began to have tantrums — something they say I had never had as a baby, and my mother let me quit. She simply said "Yes." You can't know the hundreds of times I have wished that she had somehow found a way to have kept me at it. At least that is how I have felt since I grew old enough to know that those things I was eager to do didn't really count at all. I have met many others who are bitter about things they quit that would mean so much in their homes today and in everyday life. I somehow hope you will be able to see better than I could at your age. I have been so proud of you." ATER on that day, the teenager's mother asked her to help accompany a distinguished and beautiful singer who was there and had agreed to sing. The daughter picked up her violin and_ played almost professionally well, and with such feeling for the singer's every variation that she said she wished she had her two accompanists to take with her everywhere she went. I saw the teenage girl flush with pride and look at her grandmother. I think the girl saw for the first time the pleasure in her mother's and grandmother's faces. And then I thought of my own grandmother, the one who lived up through the orchard from us, if you took the short cut, which I always did. I never knew, I ran so fast, if my feet touched the ground or not. I marvel as I look back on those days that she was never cross with me. And then I always ran so fast and fell pell-mell against her door 197 — I marvel that she always opened it so quickly. I was so welcome at her home. I never thought to question that. I never thought about the fact that she was such a little grandmother, and her great front door was heavy to swing, or that there were times when she must have been busy or very tired. It amazes me, too, that she never hurried me home. During school days it was quite late when I got there, and sometimes my parents were too busy to notice [ was missing, but grandmother never sent me home until I wanted to go or my parents called my name. Grandmother visited with me. It is queer how she always had a book ready for me to read. She used to make some remark about the very kernel of the book, and then ruminate about some question half to herself and half to me, and I would be off to explore it myself. It was odd that she always had gingerbread cookies on hand, since she did not eat things like that, at all. And strange that she had time to teach me, in the summer, all there was to know about her beautiful flower garden. I remember kneeling with her to plant some bulbs among the showers of bleeding hearts — I remember the dampness and the coolness of junipers with violets at their feet, and the hummingbird that nested in that garden. Strange that grandmother knew about teenage problems, although no one called them so then, and she knew how to banish them, too. What would a child do without a grandmother? Do You Want to Increase Relief Society Attendance? Phoenix Stake, Capitol Ward Children Lead the Way With Volunteer Teachers Margaret Fitzpatrick ARKING the completion of its first year, Phoenix Stake, Capitol Ward Junior Relief Society is "an unequivocal success," according to Relief Society President Alice Rhotan, and co-ordinator Margaret Fitzpatrick. "The children get their mothers out of bed in the wee hours of Relief Society day so that they won't miss their own classes!' And, if for some reason, a mother is unable to make it, the matter becomes a pint-sized tragedy, with the youngsters assuring their teacher on the next occasion, "It wasn't my fault — I really wanted to come." The Relief Society nursery is a program to insure that preschool children of Relief Society mothers have a planned program of their own, instead of merely being attended by baby sitters. The nursery became a reality in Capitol Ward last September. Mothers were asked to volunteer to teach this class, each for a fourweek period. In the beginning the activities included an opening prayer, a hymn, a fun song, a flannel board story, finger plays, a snack, participation in a handicraft, a nap, marching to and playing in a rhythm band, a read-aloud story, and a closing prayer. Later, this program was to broaden to include science, social Page 198 science, and art, as well as storytime, thythm, and more varied handicraft. Almost immediately the rowdlness typical of "nursery time" disappeared. With an organized teacher in charge, prepared and well supplied with materials, the youngsters settled down to being constructive and creative, and thoroughly to enjoy themselves. They were no longer helpless children dragged away from mother and deposited willy-nilly in a nursery to cry and fret. Indeed, they have become junior members of a real organization who are proud of their membership, and, reversing the usual order, insist on bringing mother to Relief Society, with prodding temarks, such as, "Aren't you ready yet?" Success of the program in Capitol Ward can be attributed to the wholehearted moral and financial support given it by Relief Society. The first thing the Relief Society did was to organize a birthday present party which resulted in a new record player, records, children's books, coloring books, crayons, paste, paper and scissors, and play dough. But that was only the beginning. Not having to pay a baby sitter, Capitol Ward diverted such monies towards additional weekly supplies, DO YOU WANT TO INCREASE RELIEF SOCIETY ATTENDANCE? 199 including such things as flour, salt, butter, eggs, popcorn, food coloring, and contact paper, as well as basic brushes, construction paper, corks, and pipe cleaners. ANOTHER important factor was the contribution by mothers of materials ordinarily discarded: spools, cartons, felt, nylon stockings, odds and ends of fabrics, pie tins, walnut shells, buttons, bits of yarn, feathers, all kinds of small boxes, ribbons, toothpicks, fancy paper, cards, and wooden ice cream spoons. "In fact," says Sister Rhotan, "no Relief Society child would allow his or her mother to throw anything away." All things, no matter how insignificant, had a use, the children knew. Egg cartons and toothpicks could be transformed into caterpillars to be painted with tongue-between-teeth concentration. Salt boxes and construction paper became totem poles, windmills, and lighthouses. Bags became — with a snip or two — crowns, helmets, caps, guided missiles. Milk cartons could be made into flower baskets and ship bases. Walnut shells, with a snip of tissue paper for sails, could be used for skimming water in pails, and, with a bit of felt, could be changed into turtles. Soon the Relief Society nursery was functioning as a kindergarten education. Class time was divided into six separate activity periods: storytime, science, social science, art, thythm, and handicraft, and included opening and closing prayer — plus a snack. Each period was sandwiched between brief physical action games. Within this framework, the teacher used the flannel board, blackboard, pad sketches, and puppets in dramatizing kindergarten level, as well as Bible and Book of Mormon stories. In science, for example, the nursery not only dealt with the story of weather and missile projection, but when it came to current events and interplanetary exploration, they did it in this fashion, the teacher had the children put self-made helmets over their heads and balloon projected paper missiles in their hands, and then took them on an imaginary journey to several other worlds in the galaxy. Social science pivoted about home and community life, and the activities ranged from group baking, corn popping, clay making, to group project painting and _ dramatization. In art, the children potato and stick printed and brush painted. This coming year, finger painting and spatter painting will be added. Handicraft included clay modeling, pipe cleaner projects, standups, button people, paper dolls, boats, peg art, three-dimensional paper work, as well as hand puppets, flowers, parachutes and cork, spool, and felt toys, Indian headdresses, helmets, flower baskets, zoo cages, pin wheels, and many other articles. OR rhythm activities, the record player was a boon and was used, along with the rhythm band, for coordination games and folk dancing. Capitol Ward found that the volunteer system worked admirably, each teacher preparing and carrying out a full program. However, when 200 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 PHOENIX STAKE, CAPITOL WARD RELIEF SOCIETY NURSERY Left to mght: Shelley Russell; Barbara Archer; Julie Whitefield; Joe Marshall; Celeste Fitzpatrick; nursery leader Anne Wilson; Darrell Shumway; David Wolfe; Melodee Parker; Kevin Shumway. One mother volunteered on a fulltime basis, it was found the children gained in a sense of security and permanency. In this case, it was Sister Anne Wilson who spoke about the difference between the time before and after the planned nursery. "Like all mothers, I have been called on occasionally to baby sit in various wards and, like most mothers, have come out of these sessions exhausted, frustrated, distressed by a sense of inadequacy. In spite of improvised programs, including manual skills such as dancing, skipping, even simple acrobatics, storytelling, game playing, and singing, again, like most mothers, I found the children almost uncontrollable, some dreading the time, others being resentful and coming to the nursery to let the steam out of their systems, wornout and miserable. "But now these youngsters look forward to Relief Society day, and feel a love for the organization and respect for the very room they work in, From here, surely will come future dedicated Relief Society members and interested husbands." The success of the nursery is due DO YOU WANT TO INCREASE RELIEF SOCIETY ATTENDANCE? 201 primarily to two factors: First the willingness of Relief Society to supply the necessary materials and to give financial support. Without this, it would have been hard to have anything but a primitive program. And second, the enthusiasm generated by the Relief Society president and co-ordinator and their wholehearted moral support. All the things that appeared as if by magic, and that seemed to happen so effortlessly, were the result of their combined labors — the arrival of supplies, the actual buying of needed items, the regularly anticipated snack. President Rhotan assisted and upheld the program, always making sure that the necessary speaking time was allotted our liaison officer. "That's how I always thought of Sister Fitzpatrick," President Rhotan said. "It was she who gave the enthusiastic talks that spurred the sisters to bring supplies, and the children love her as the good provider, for it was she who scurried back and forth each week with the good things of life — punch and cookies. 'That was a high spot in the day's activities and cannot be minimized. 'The Relief Society even saw to it that there were second helpings." And those weekly supplies! 'The cellophane paper, the glue, the balloons and contact paper, the flour, the fish sinkers, whatever we asked for, it was Sister Rhotan who went shopping for us and saw to it that it was delivered in time to be ready for classwork. What do the children themselves say about the Relief Society nursery? "It's more fun than anything else! Here you get to do things." And the mothers? They couldn't wish a better thing for every other ward. Ownership Claim Maude Rubin This place was mine—I bought it, held the deed To house and lot, to willow tree and roses But all the legal steps have still not freed The title clearly, for there's one who poses, Slim and business-like upon the roof— Who struts in confidence that he's the owner; Although he holds no papers, vocal proof Asserts possessor's rights; claims mine the honor To live here on his bounty. Through white nights, His argument sings on... Through sun-warm hours. I listen—then break down and grant his nights Of ownership: the house, the trees, the flowers Belong to Mr. Mockingbird. My votes Deed him the place—he pays in golden notes! Another Spring Annie Atkin Tanner Oh, winds of March, Sweep from the comers of the wall, The withered, brown-dry leaves, The faded flowers of the autumn days; Take from our minds The little fears that mar our days And dim the splendor of the stars. Let wind-swept night,. _ The newly furrowed fields, the gray-white birds, Free us from useless doubts - And everypetty thing. | May we find a yellow crocus Under winter weeds, — And know again there is another-spring. Page 202 Page 203 ANOTHER SPRI NG H. Armstrong Roberts Beverages Before a Dinner Winnifred C. Jardine 6 HAT shall we serve as a beverage or an appetizer before dinner?" is a question sincerely asked by Latter-day Saint women whenever they are entertaining. There are a multitude of answers. Some of them are found in the following recipes. Remember that beverages and appetizers served before a meal should be light enough and sparing enough to "pique" the appctite rather than to satisfy it. And the flavor should contrast with other flavors of the meal. This is what makes an "appetizer." CRANBERRY EGGNOG 2 eggs % ¢. Lemon juice* % Cc. Sugar 1/4 Cc. Orange juice* 7% tsp. Salt 2 c. Cranberry juice (*In all recipes calling for lemon and orange juice, reconstituted frozen or canned orange juice and frozen or canned lemon juice may be used, as well as the freshly reamed juice. ) Beat eggs until thick; add sugar and salt. Blend in fruit juices and pour over cracked ice in glasses. Makes five 8-0z. Glasses. Hort Spicep Fruit PuncH whole piece ginger root c. Orange juice c. Lemon juice qts. Apple cider 2% c. Sugar c. Water 2 full-size sticks cinnamon 8 allspice berries 10 cloves N NA Combine sugar and water; boil for 5 minutes. Remove from heat and add spices. Cover and allow to stand in warm place for 1 hour. Strain. Just before scrving, add juices and cider and bring quickly to boiling point. Remove from heat and serve at once. Makes 25 servings. Party Pinx Drink 4 ¢. Thubarb, cut up (1% lbs.) 2 ¢c. Sugar 2 c. Water ginger ale Cut rhubarb in 1-inch pieces. Combine sugar and water, add rhubarb, and simmer until tender. Strain (saving rhubarb pieces for pie or cobbler). Freeze juice. To serve, spoon frozen rhubarb juice that has been softened to mush into glasses and fill with ginger ale. Makes about 6 cups. Page 204 BEVERAGES BEFORE A DINNER 205 BANANA CRUSH 4 ¢c. Sugar 5 crushed bananas 6 c. Water 4 ¢. Pineapple juice 245 Cc. Orange juice ginger ale or substitute Y2 ¢. Lemon juice Make syrup of water and sugar by heating until sugar is dissolved. Combine with remaining ingredients and freeze. Fill glasses half full of banana freeze, softened to mush. Fill glasses full with sparkling water, ginger ale, or other colorless soft drinks. Makes enough to serve about 35 people. If desired, color fruit slush and serve with mint as a garnish. MuLtiep Apricot NECTAR 6 c. Apricot nectar 2 whole sticks cinnamon (or a 46-0z. Can) 15 whole cloves % lemon, sliced 8 allspice berries Combine all ingredients in heavy saucepan and bring to boiling point. Simmer gently 5 minutes. Remove from heat, cover, and allow to stand 30 minutes. Strain. If desired, sweeten to taste. Heat before serving. Makes about 5 cups. RASPBERRY FLOAT 3 3-0z. Packages raspberry- "2 ¢c. Lime juice flavored gelatin 2% c. Orange juice 4 c. Boiling water 1% c. Lemon juice 1% Cc. Sugar 1 qt. Ginger ale 4 c. Cold water 2 10-0z. Packages frozen raspberries Dissolve gelatin in boiling water; add sugar, cold water, and juices; cool, but do not chill or gelatin will congeal. (If it does congeal, heat just enough to liquify.) When time to serve, pour punch into punch bowl. Add ginger ale and frozen raspberries. Stir until raspberries break apart and are partially thawed. Makes about 4 quarts. GraPE COOLER 2 6-0z. Cans frozen lemonade concentrate 2 qts. Grape juice Dilute lemonade only half as much as directed on can. Pour into ice trays and freeze. 'lo serve, spoon frozen lemonade, softened to a mush, into glasses and fill with grape juice. Makes about 16 servings. Tomato Juice CockTAIL 2 c. Tomato juice 2 tsp. Finely minced onion 2 tsp. Vinegar 2 tbsp. Lemon juice 1 tbsp. Sugar % c. Diced celery "2 bay leaf 206 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 Mix ingredients. Let stand in refrigerator 30 minutes; strain. Serve cold. For variation, juice may be frozen to a mush and served in sherbet glasses. Makes 5 to 6 servings. Tancy TOMATO JUICE VARIATIONS 1. To each cup of tomato juice add % teaspoon of anchovy paste and a little lemon juice, salt and pepper to taste. Mix paste with a little juice first, to thin it, before mixing with entire amount. 2. Combine equal portions of tomato juice and canned bouillon; heat. 3. Combine equal parts tomato juice and sauerkraut juice; add Worcestershire sauce to taste. Chill. 4. Combine equal parts tomato juice and clam juice; season with minced onion, salt and pepper. <>< Bits of Odds and Ends Janet W. Breeze hee One knitting needle. Prevent your precious tools. Make double rows such an occurrence by literally filing of slits in a 9" x 12" manila folder. Insert needles and mark size number. Store crochet hooks the same way on a file card. Fold a piece of paper as you would to Ty make a fan and use it for a holder when It 7 lining up those broken beads to string. Q Slip a pillowcase over the leaf of your hoN sewing machine to prevent soiling and; N. Slipping of fine materials. For that runaway ball of string, cut a piece of cardboard to fit inside a pint jat lid. Put the string in the jar and extend al the end through a hole in lid. The same can be done with crochet cotton or knitFILE FOR NEEDLES ting yarn if it's a small enough ball. The Lamplighters Alice Gubler T is twilight and the hungry baseball players are straggling home to their evening meal. They had such fun today. 'There are always all sizes and all ages of home folks out there playing. It doesn't make any difference who comes to play in our friendly little town. I like to sit here on my front porch because it is in the very center of things, where I can actually listen to the heartbeat of my home town. 'Tonight I can hear Wickley's cows mooing in the pasture. A cricket chirps in the elderberry bushes, and there is the twittering of sleepy birds in the honey locust tree. Little girls are laughing and flitting like butterflies on Ed Gubler's lawn, and I can hear a dog barking somewhere along the canal bank. Dennis Church is trudging by with his milk bucket. Above the hill, a lone star appears — the first star out tonight. Twilight deepens and lights come on in the houses along the hillside. I wonder what it was like when the first lamps were lighted in this little valley? Fancy takes me back, and I see the rabbit brush and the greasewood growing all around me. I can see my own dear mother-in-law polishing her lamp chimney and _ trimming the wick to light her lamp. Susanna Gubler — the first woman to make a permanent home here in La Verkin. I wonder how she felt. It must have been lonely, but still she was so anxious to move into her own little rock house that she hitched up the team and loaded her belongings into the wagon all by herself, even to her Home Comfort stove. No one knows really how she did it. It took two men to unload it. A few months later another lamp was lighted in La Verkin, when Aunt Mae Gubler came here to stay. There were others who played a vital part in this drama, who have gone on, leaving their rich heritage and hallowed memories. As [ sit here musing, my heart plays strange tricks — I see the beloved faces of those who were here. I pull myself back in my reminiscing and turn my thoughts to those early pioneers who are still living with us today. After Aunt Mae, came Allen Stout's family in 1902, bringing their daughter Gretchen, who is now lovingly known as Sister Stratton. In the spring of 1903, Thomas Judd, the founder of La Verkin, brought his family here to live. Still with us is his daughter Kate Thompsen who has been a vital part of our town ever since. 'That same year William Sanders brought his wife Sarah Amelia. She was expecting a baby when she came. It was that fall that the first child was born in La Verkin — a little girl, Rosalba, to Susanna Gubler. Six days later, Amelia Sanders bore a son, Moroni. Two new little babies born in the wilderness as it were. As I sit here on my porch musing, I hear water running in at the head of my garden. It has a merry, laughing sound. Water? What Page 207 208 did they do for water with which to bathe those new little babies when Rosalba and Moroni were born? They must have dipped it up from the ditch and settled it. My goodness! And the doctor! I know they didn't phone him — and he didn't rush to their aid in his car, not then, and there was no convenience of a hospital delivery room. I know the answer to that one. Aunt Mae earned the right to be everybody's Aunt Mae, for she was the doctor and the nurse, while this little town was coming into existence. Women had to help each other then. N the early spring of 1905 Arthur Woodbury folded his tent at Photograph by Carl] Laird RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 Shem and brought his wife Harriet and his small children to La Verkin. They say the tent was large, and when it was pitched and boarded up, it became the scene of many happy parties. I know how good those parties must have been. When Aunt Hattie set her mind to any social affair, it had to be good. From the deep south came the Segler family to join the saints in La Verkin in 1907. With travel so slow, and roads so dusty and rough, I often wonder how Hardy and Jim ever found LaVina and Myrtle. Hardy must have had to go out and around by Short Creek to Mt. Carmel, and Jim's wagon had to creak over the Black Ridge. Courting PIONEER HOME IN LA VERKIN, UTAH Once occupied by the Ben DeMille family. THE LAMPLIGHTERS Photograph 5 Carl Laird HOME OF WILFORD AND KATE THOMPSEN IN LA VERKIN, This is the only pioneer home in La Verkin which is still occupied. Would have been pretty serious business in those days. But they found their brides and brought them here to help pioneer our little town. So here they are — our pioneer women who are still living among us today: Susanna Gubler, Aunt Mae Gubler, Amelia Sanders, Gretchen Stratton, Harriet Woodbury, Kate Thompsen, Myrtle Segler, and LaVina Segler. These are the people who lit their lamps in our valley years ago and helped push back the desert. They are the women behind the men who brought the river through the tunnel, coursing like lifeblood through an artery, to nourish the orchards and vineyards. 'They are the women UTAH who filled the corn shuck and straw ticks that their men might rest come night, and sewed rag rugs to brighten their homes; who bent over the old washboard with aching backs. They are the women who were sustained as auxiliary heads and officers and teachers, shouldering as high as five offices for one person at a time, so that their children might be taught the gospel. They sat in worship in the old bowery, until the little rock schoolhouse came into being. As I sit here reminiscing, I see the new wing of our church house take the form of that little rock building. It was there that the first little girl and the first little boy learned to 210 read and to write. It was there they learned to love music, drama, and dancing. HE sons of the women who lit the first lamps in our valley have gone out to be leaders over the face of this land. Among them are doctors of science, medicine, language, dentists, professors, bakers, star athletes, farmers, engineers, missionaries, bishops, stake clerks, Sunday School — superintendents, music directors, and merchants; and their daughters are following their footsteps in leadership. 'They are the loving wives who light their homes for their men coming home when the sun has gone to rest. Also among them are teachers and skilled career women, too. This little town is deeply rooted in the love of those who pioneered it. Shoulder to shoulder, they RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 toiled, establishing a bond between them that has never been broken. That is why people say "Those La Verkin people are like one big family." We sit together on summer evenings on the church patio for entertainments. Our women cook food for ward dinners and their families come out and eat together. A breeze rustles the bamboo canes by my house. 'There are myriads of crickets chirping at the stars. 'This is my home town, where there is music, and laughter, and love. From all the windows across town shine the lights of these gentle people. I breathe a silent prayer of thanksgiving for those first lamplighters in our valley, for they have surely fulfilled holy writ which says: "Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven" (Mt. 5:16). View From the Pass Martha Tucker Fugate The foothills step up to the heights In shaded velvet folds, And who can guess what green delights Each hidden valley holds? Stuffed Toys Are Delightful Shirley Thulin GPUFFED toys make delightful and much appreciated gifts for children's birthdays, special occasions, and always for Christmas. These cuddly toys make perfect gifts for children who are ill, and grandmothers will find that stuffed toys will please the children when they come to visit. Relief Society women make stuffed toys for bazaars and find that they are best selling items. Dolls First, let's make the most lovable, the rag doll. You can find patterns for all kinds of dolls in the pattern books at your local yardage counters, so let's take a look at the general directions for making rag dolls. The best material to use in making rag dolls is unbleached muslin, or, to make a beautiful doll with a hint of a blush, use pale pink Indian head, or a used piece of pink sheet. Figure 1 THE DOLL'S HAIR Made of rug yarn and stitched into the seam on the top of the doll's head. The hair for your doll, as with the hair on your little girl, is the crowning glory, so here are some tips. Use rug yarn, and stitch the pieces of yarn right in with the seam on the top of the head of the doll. You may stitch the strands of yarn on the head after it is stuffed, or you may want to make the hair out of an old black stocking. 'This is done by making a long skull cap from the stocking, attaching the top of it to the top of the doll's head, and then cutting fringe all around. Cut the front shorter, making bangs (Figure 1). If you are going to paint the face on, do it before stitching the head together. But, if you want to make the eyes of buttons, and the ears, mouth, and nose embroidered, you can do it after the doll is stuffed. 'Try making a funny face, using felt pieces, for a change (Figure 2). Children love to see a comical face. Figure 2 THE DOLL'S FACE The features may be painted or embroidered. Be sure to sew the doll together with good strong thread and with tiny stitches. Use quilting thread. Clip the corners and the round parts every little way, so they will be the right shape and not bind or pull when you turn it right side out (Figure 3). The best stuffing to use for all stuffed toys is the orlon from a quilt batting. You also can use old nylon stockings. Make the doll's clothing removable, and make several changes for her so your child will get the most pleasure from her doll. Page 211 212 a Figure 3 SEWING THE DOLL TOGETHER Use quilting thread. Clip the round parts of the corners so that they will be the night shape and not bind or pull. Figure 4 A HANDSOME DUCK The duck's body is made from a man's work sock. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 How to Make a Duck Now let's make a handsome duck (Figure 4). His head and body are made from the top of a man's sock. After stuffing the duck, tie a string about a third of the way down to divide the head section from the body (Figure 5). His perky cap is made from two pieces of bright striped cotton or denim (Figure 6). Just stitch all around, leaving a little place to turn and stuff. Sew to his head. Stitch a little pompon atop his stuffed cap. Make the pompon by winding some yarn around two fingers about twelve times, then tie in the center and fluff into a ball-shaped pompon. 'Trim and_ stitch tightly to the top of the cap. The bill is made by sewing two half circles of yellow felt together, leaving an opening to turn at flat place (Figure 7). Make two of these. Stuff them and stitch them to the face. Make his tail the same as his bill only not as long and make his wings the same, only larger. His webbed feet are cut from felt scraps, too. Cut them in shapes as shown in Figure 8. Now, make big soulful looking eyes of blue felt and stitch in place, and sew a row of colorful small buttons down his Figure 5 MAKING THE BODY OF THE DUCK Sew across the bottom. Stuff the body and stitch the top together. Tie a string one-third of the way down to divide the head section from the body. STUFFED TOYS ARE DELIGHTFUL 213 Figure 6 MAKING THE CAP The cap is two oval picces of material stitched together and turned. Figure 9 A SITTING SANTA CLAUS Made from a child's red cotton stocking. Figure 7 THE DUCK'S BILL Next is an ideal Christmas gift or table Cut four duplicate pieces of this patdecoration. This attractive sitting Santa is tern. Sew two pieces together for the top fashioned easily by any home sewer from of the beak and two together for the 4g child's red cotton stocking (Figure 9). Bottom. White orlon yarn makes the hair and beard of this cotton stuffed cutie. You will also need one red cotton sock with the turned down cuff (not the kind -" with the elastic top). Figure 8 How to Make a Santa Claus THE DUCK'S WEBBED FEET y Cut four pieces of this pattern, and a make each foot double. X ok ok Ok mney / caneiee popular gift. A variety of cute animals can be made front. He is now ready to become a a from this same basic pattern. Just gather ae felt, colorful bits of material, buttons, and whatever your imagination dictates, then Figure 10 start stitching. The pointers to keep in mind are fae. Keep the clothes for MAKING THE SANTA CLAUS stuffed toys colorful and the facial expresMark the leg of the stocking into half sions interesting. Do this by making the and quarters, and the foot of the stocking eyes big and the mouths turned up in __ into thirds. Small figure at right represents smiles. The toe of the stocking. 214 Scraps of black oilcloth are used for his belt and leggings. You will need 3 white sequins and 4 tiny gold-colored beads. Fight black beads are needed to march down Santa's coat. You will also need some orlon white yarn or White cotton for the hair and beard. 1. Fold and mark the foot of the stocking into thirds and the leg into half and quarters, then cut off the toe on the line of the first third. Cut this in half lengthwise. Cut foot on top and bottom folds, a trifle beyond the second mark. 'Turn inside out (Figure 10). 2. Fold cut edges together to form legs; stitch around crotch, rounding at ends for feet. Stitch toe sections for arms. 'Turn all sections right side out (Figure 11). Figure 11 MAKING THE ARMS AND LEGS FOR THE SANTA CLAUS The toe sections of the stocking are made into arms for Santa Claus, as shown in the small drawing at the right. 3. Stuff legs and body up to half mark. Using thread doubled, tie securely at half mark to form neck. Stuff and tie on quarter mark for the head, winding thread tightly up about one-third the distance to sock top (Figure 12). Knead into sitting position with sock heel as seat of pants. 4. Stuff arms (sock toes) and_ turn. Draw up open ends. Sew firmly to body. 5. For hands and feet, wind yarn tightly RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 Figure 12 STUFFING THE BODY OF THE SANTA CLAUS The neck is made by winding thread tightly at half mark of sock, and the top of the head is made by winding thread one third the distance to the sock top. Several times around the ends of the arms and legs. 6. For base of beard and hair, make a circle of small running stitches with the yarn on front of the head in the proper place for the face (sort of an outline around the face). Work from the outline to the edge of the head thick loops of yarn, making a single, short, tight stitch after each loop (Figure 13). Cut the loops, trimming shorter on the top for hair and flaring at the sides to full length at the bottom for the beard. Fluff out. Figure 13 MAKING THE BEARD AND HAIR Thick loops of yarn are stitched close together. STUFFED TOYS ARE DELIGHTFUL If you use cotton, just stitch where needed to the head. 7. Sew on white sequins with a bead at center for the eyes and one bead for a nose. Embroider the mouth. Embroider down the front and across the bottom of the jacket in outline stitch with yarn. 8. Turn the top of the sock down, making tapered pleat at the back to fit 215 the head and form a pointed cap. 'Tack invisibly. Make a pompon and stitch to top of hat. G. Cut oilcloth belt and leggings. 'Tack the belt in the back; lap, and fasten in front with gold sequin and bead. Lap and tack the leggings in back. Using yarn, whipstitch to ankle yarn. Sew on beads for buttons. Yohanna Sofie Farstead Specializes in Hardanger Work mee NINA Sofie Johansen Farstead, Creston, British Columbia, Canada, specializes in making the lovely hardanger work, a craft of her native land, Norway. Crochets, knits, embroiders, and makes many useful and decorative articles. Given away sixteen tablecloths and eleven stoles. She also She _ has Many missionaries in the AlaskanCanadian Mission are wearing socks knitted by Mrs. Farstead. Mrs. Farstead came from Norway with her husband and homesteaded near Prince Albert, in the northern part of Saskatchewan. Widowed just before the last of her ten children was born, Mrs. Farstead took care of the farm and provided the advantages of an education for all her children, who are now well established in business and the professions. Busy and happy, at the age of eighty-six, Mrs. Farstead believes that her life has been enriched by her devotion to her family, to her friends and neighbors, and her activity in the Church. Her hobbies have been an additional joy generously shared with her many relatives, friends, and neighbors. Sow the Field With Roses CHAPTER 3 Margery S. Stewart Synopsis: Nina Karsh, thirty-nine, horseback riding in the Malibu Mountains of California, becomes lost. She meets Tomas Novarro, whose grandmother's house she has just rented. He owns considerable surrounding property, and other property in Mexico and Canada. Mr. Novartro talks with Nina about the newspaper account of her dismissal as a nurse's aid from the local hospital, and Nina explains the circumstance. Novarro brings his motherless, withdrawn son Joseph and asks Nina to take care of him. Reluctantly, she agrees to look after the boy. She is visited by Tommy Benedict, a young boy from an unhappy home who has taken a great liking to Nina, and enjoys riding her horse Dominick. Ire Jonathan edged his car up the perilous roadway to the hilltop house. He looked coldly at the pandemonium of color and line and vista stretching to his right. People ought to leave hills for trees or goats. 'Tomas Novarro's people must have been mad to have built a house so high and so far. Another thing that made Craig Jonathan feel pettish was his errand. He wanted nothing to do with Nina Karsh. The Valley Hospital was still buzzing with her dismissal, people took sides. Doctor Jonathan remained utterly aloof. It was an unfortunate matter. He liked the hospital to maintain its starched monotony and let the troubles come in with the patients. He took off his glasses and slipped them into his pocket. It was an absent-minded gesture that made the nurses smile. WithPage 216 out glasses his face was younger and less stern. The immaculate crew cut of his graying hair sprang austerely up from his wide, lined brow. His eyes were gray and tired. To be in pediatrics was to surrender such luxuries as sleep. He nosed the car into the narrow plateau beside the garage and reached for his bag and got out. Tomas Novarro played chess well and the dinners at the big house were unfailingly interesting, but the care and keeping of Tomas Novarro's son was a nagging and painful thorn in Doctor Jonathan's mind. The case made him feel helpless and he very seldom felt helpless. 'Tomas Novarro himself was often as painful a problem as his son, and more unpredictable, such as leaving the boy with a strange woman, especially a woman like Nina Karsh, leaving him and going off somewhere without seemingly another thought. It was all wrong, completely wrong, Doctor Jonathan shrugged his displeasure. Novarro would save himself and his son all this upheaval, if he would consent to place the child in an institution and, well... Forget him was a strong phrase. Doctor Jonathan avoided it. But this! He looked about him at the long low lines of the house, at the bougainvillea spilling its purple profusion along the rooftree and around the stone chimney. What did Novarro expect to gain by leaving his son with Nina Karsh? From what Doctor Jonathan had SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES seen of her at the hospital, she had nothing of fire or brilliance. As he vaguely recalled Nina Karsh, he had a quick vision of a small white person, who owned nothing spectacular in the way of figure. Her hands, as he recalled, were square and capable and she did have rather nice eyes, tender, intelligent, and a fine shade of blue. But she was an ordinary woman a composite of dozens one saw daily, single women, gentle faced, a little humble, a little puzzled by the complexities of being forty and alone. He pressed his finger with unnecessary vigor on the bell. HE passing wind brought him the sweetness of orange blossoms and pinks, a hummingbird darted around the hanging basket. Despite himself, Doctor Jonathan felt peace invade him. The door opened. Nina Karsh smiled at him briefly, "Yes, Doctor?" He eyed her sourly. She was prettier than he remembered, and her hair was quite remarkable in color and sheen. He found himself staring at it, trying to decide if it was more gold than red or rather a particularly brillant brown. Her gaze was blue and direct. He found himself straightening _ his Shoulders. "Tomas Novarro asked me to look in on his son. I am Doctor Jonathan." "I remember you." She flushed but did not lower her eyes. It was embarassing. What did She expect of him? Comment? Commendation? Belief in her? He cleared his throat. "Quite, quite." She lifted her chin. She was a proud woman then, not accustomed to the role of being questioned. 217 "He is in hefe:" Ste led the way to the living room. He followed her slowly, looking about him. 'The room was charming, no doubt of that, cool, peaceful, boasting flowered chintz_ slip covers and polished tables which mirrored the low bowls of pansies and pinks. He peered at the bookshelves and at the paintings on the walls. They were boldly initialed. "Yours?" She nodded. "A hobby of sorts." More than a hobby, he would say. He felt an unwilling respect nudge aside his preconceived opinions. The woman had talent, real talent. The boy was lying slackly in the big chair by the window. She knelt beside him, took his thin, stiff fingers in her own. "Doctor Jonathan is here, Joseph." Doctor Jonathan forced heartiness. "How are you, young man, enjoying life?" He opened his bag, not waiting for a reply, which he knew by past experience, would not be forthcoming. He made his examination carefully, pleased to note the faint flush on the thin cheeks. "You've had him in the sun?" "This morning, for a little while." "Excellent." He watched her with the child. She was quick but sure in her touch. Joseph submitted without tenseness. "No don't bother to undress him. I gave him a thorough checkup two weeks ago. This is routine. Does he eat well?" "No, very little." He rose, frowning. He tapped the stethescope on his palm and looked about him. The portrait above the fireplace caught his eye. It was of a man in his late sixties. "My father," she said, "one of. 218 his last good days. I didn't really capture him, but then what canvas could?" "It's quite good." He was dismayed at his own tone. He sounded stuffy. "Kind of you." He sighed. There would be then no rapport between them. Best to get the business over with. "The boy is quite a handful for anyone, and I'm afraid the case is hopeless." "I beg your pardon?" "Never matured... Doubt that he will." HE said quietly and with great firmness, "Joseph will be entirely well." "Indeed?" He was instantly alert. He placed his glasses on his nose and looked at her closely. She tilted her chin. "T said Joseph will be well." She plunged into a hurried account of the boy and an encounter with a butterfly. He listened impatiently. That was the trouble with women like Nina Karsh, they rode their own off-beat theories with the vigor of a small boy on a horse. It was that same impulsiveness that had led to the incident at the hospital. "You live alone?" he asked. "Yes. My nephew, Daniel Brooks... I reared after his mother died, but he's away at school now. I don't believe he'll be coming back, so I suppose I am quite alone." He pulled at his lip. It was an obvious situation. Lonely, unhappy, She jumped at the chance to do something challenging, to be needed. Suddenly and unexpectedly, Doctor Jonathan felt pity flood him. She would give all she had, and she would receive nothing in exchange. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 Nothing. There was only disillusionment and bitterness ahead for her. He found himself saying, "Don't ask for the impossible, Miss Karsh, and don't" his voice was firm, "give too much of yourself." He cleared his throat. "Don't waste yourself." She met his gaze with a hot anger plainly visible in her eyes. "Forgive me, Doctor Jonathan, I do not agree with you on any single point." She was emphatic. She looked young, terribly involved, standing there beside the boy. She made him feel old and, yes, cruel, neither emotion conducive to well-being. She knelt beside the boy, cupped his chin in her palm. "We'll walk in the hills, Joseph, in the mornings, early, and after it rains. We'll find wonderful things you andI and I'll tell you stories. I know a thousand stories." Doctor Jonathan wrote out a prescription and gave it to her. She rose and went with him to the door. "How long have you known Joseph?" "Two years." "And he has always...?" "Always," he said firmly. "Don't hesitate to call me, and Ill be dropping in again in a few days." Doctor Jonathan drove slowly down the hill. He fought against an urge to turn and go back, find out what she was up to. There had been a squared determination about her. She was, without a doubt, a woman determined on a course. OM Benedict brought a frolic: some Dominick back to the corral. He stabled her and made his way to the kitchen to voice his | thanks. Nina drew him inside. "I'm afraid SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES there's a hitch to it, an hour of baby sitting?" "Sure I would. Have you got a television?" "In the den, just off the living room. I won't be long." Tomas Novarro's house was old and large and very beautiful. Nina was enchanted by the beauty of its Spanish lines. The tile roof was richly red, the blue painted iron scroll work against the white stucco walls made her think of pictures she had seen of Spanish castles. Manuel came to the door. He looked troubled at the sight of her, but not surprised. "Come in, Miss Karsh, you have troubles?" He Jooked at her anxiously. "No troubles, Manuel, just questions." _ His breath exploded in_ relief. "Questions? I answer! I answer." He led her across the wide hall to a large room, rich with gilding and red velvet. Nina followed him silently, testing the lushness of the rugs under her feet and trying to identify from afar the painters of the great dim canvases, gold framed, on the wall. "A Goya!" 'she marveled, and forgetting Manuel, went to stand before it. "Mr. Novarro brought it home with him some years ago, from Paris, [ think." Manuel pointed to a brocade chair. "Would you sit here, Miss Karsh." Nina sat primly on the rich fabric, crossing her feet precisely, folding het white gloved hands in her lap. She should have worn her navy blue, this light sprigged cotton seemed countrified and simple in the great, elegant room. 219 "You wanted to ask me about Joseph?" She leaned forward. "Mr. Manuel, I want to know everything about him." Manuel sat back. "I am sorry. I do not have all the reports... All the papers." "Reports? Papers? Who took care of him?" Manuel shrugged. "Many." Nina lifted her brows. "I don't understand." "Tomas Novarro wished nothing left undone for his son. There were many nurses. 'They did not like it here. Too lonely. 'There were many maids. 'There were schools. 'There were clinics." "But what were they these people?" "There was an English nurse." Manuel counted on his fingers. "No baby should be picked up. 'There was a young lady from Santa Monica, who was studying psychiatry. She was very efficient. We did not speak to the child, because we were all giants and terrifying to him, she said." Nina sighed. Manuel nodded. "We did everything they said. We had scales to measure lunches and suppers, special clothes and special blocks and special disciplines." "Disciplines? What sort of disciplines?"' Again Manuel shrugged. "It was behind closed doors. 'The child cried. We could not enter. Then Mr. Novarro became afraid. He sent for my mother." Manuel moved restlessly. "But she was very old, my mother. She fed the child and bathed him, but she was tired. It like, all 220 was all out of her, the tenderness. She had had many children and many grandchildren. She was tired." INA stood up. "Mr. Manuel, would you please show me Joseph's room." He looked puzzled, but rose with alacrity and led the way upstairs. Joseph's room was in the left wing. Manuel explained the distance by saying that Joseph had cried a great deal, in the beginning, and the brilliant young woman, the one from Santa Monica, had said he must not be held or pampered in any way, because the wise men had discovered this was not only unnecessary but harmful. "Indeed," said Nina frostily, "and what did Mr. Novarro think of that?" "He was too lost in grief to notice," Manuel said gently, "besides, child raising is for women." With effort, Nina restrained the caustic comment leaping to her lips. A remembrance of her own father's tenderness and concern loomed tall in her mind. She felt an icy disdain for this Tomas Novarro. Joseph's room was dark and impressive, with somber Spanish chests and a great carved bed. "There is a closet full of toys," Manuel said hastily. "We have put them away, but you may have them, if you like." "Who played with Joseph?" "Played with him? He had his tovs, Miss Karsh, everything that money could buy." "Thank you," Nina said, "you have been very helpful. 'That is all I wish to know." Manuel followed her out to the car, helped her in with grave courRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 tesy. "You may come any time, Miss Karsh, Mr. Novarro said you are to have whatever you like. He said we're to send you Elissa, the second maid. She is a very good cook." "Fine," said Nina. "I can use her." She started the motor with a roar that sent Manuel leaping for safety and spun down the driveway | in the direction of her own hilltop. | Tom Benedict looked up reluctantly from his cowboy and Indian show. "He didn't even wake up." He looked at her narrowly. "You got something moving in your sweater, Miss Marsh." Nina laughed and drew out the small, white, fluffy kitten. "T bought him... On the way back." Tom cried out and reached for the small squirming puff and held it, mewing plaintively, against his face. Nina watched the tenderness melt away the wise old look that had been there before. If a kitten could do this for a boy, a big boy like 'Tom! She could scarcely wait for Joseph to waken from his nap. Then she dressed him, fed him milk and crackers, and led him outdoors. Joseph obeyed her mutely. He allowed himself to be placed in the blue canvas chair. The afternoon sun made a nimbus of his light hair. Nina knelt beside him. She took the kitten from her pocket. "Look, Joseph, look!" The boy seemed unaware. "Joseph, it makes a singing." She rubbed the small body against his cheek. JOSEPH put up his hand and touched the kitten. He let his hand drop, all interest gone. The released kitten leaped, mewing, to SOW THE FIELD WITH ROSES the ground. Nina sat back on her heels, bewildered and disappointed. The kitten rubbed against her ankles. She picked it up and held itin her hands. "There there," she crooned to the plaintive cry, "it's all nght " She sat suddenly still, aware of Joseph's interest. But Joseph was looking at her, not the kitten. In his face was an expression she could not read, but expressive it was, a shadow, a movement. Trembling, she placed the Kitten back in his hands. He paid no attention. When her voice stilled, the light went out of his face. What was it? Not her imagination, surelv. There had been a flicker of life, of interest. But when she looked at him again he was inert, dull, and heavy. It was when she talked to the kitten. Nina took the kitten back. She crooned over it, but she watched Joseph's face. Tell me, Joseph, she asked herself, is it because I talk to the kitten? Is it amusing? No, that isn't it. It's something I'm doing with my voice. But what? What is it? What reaches him? She held the kitten to her face, making a little wordless song. Joseph held her with his eyes, large, misty, infinitely 221 sad. Nina put the kitten down and took Joseph into her arms. He said no word; he made no outcry. He burrowed against her, his eyes closed. Nina held him in silence, trying to understand. Leaves dropped from the chinaberry tree, a squirrel frisked from the juniper, to the left the windmill turned lazily over the well, from far below came the faint echoes of car horns and motors. Nina was oblivious to all around her. Something strange was happening between her and Joseph, a communion between them, a warm peace in the burden of his head, a stirring in his hands like the tendrils of a young plant reaching up. How strange, she thought, our emphasis on words, our insistence that communication be in syllables and sentences. Joseph is talking to me without any sound. He is telling me that he must begin from the beginning, from the baby part of it. She held him in aching tenderness. I am telling him, by my holding him here, in the sun, in the afternoon, that I understand him, that I will not fail, that he can begin to believe and to open, for there is nothing to make him afraid. (To be continued) <j Mrs. Teacher Olive C. Wehr "Don't you have anv children?" Women always want to know — They don't mean to be unkind — And I always answer, "No," just "No." (There are no words for sorrow. ) But it's always in the back of my mind To answer truthfully, "Oh, yes, For the past twenty years or so, I've had hundreds of them, no less!"' General Secretary-Treasurer Hulda Parker All material submitted for publication in this department should be sent through stake and mission Relief Society presidents. See regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" in the Magazine for January 1958, page 47, and in the Relief Society Handbook of Instructions. RELIEF SOCIETY ACTIVITIES Photograph submitted by Hazel K. Woolley WEST CENTRAL STATES MISSION, GLENDIVE BRANCH (MONTANA) RELIEF SOCIETY FASHION SHOW, June 1961 Front row, left to right: June Hennebry; Kathi and Cheri; Dorothy Getz, Cheri and Mary Anderson. Back row, left to right: Helen Ness; Joy Jensen; Beatrice Mitchell; Bernice Orcutt; Wanda White; Edythe Brown; Marjorie Zolman. Hazel K. Woolley, President, West Central States Mission Relief Society, reports that this was the first fashion show presented by the Glendive Branch Relief Society. Fach member who sewed a dress or a suit for herself also modeled it. The show featured two mothers and daughters numbers. The objectives of the sewing program, Sister Woolley explains, are to stimulate a desire among the sisters to sew for themselves and their families, thus developing and improving their talents; to promote a closer feeling of sisterhood by working together, helping others, and sharing ideas; and also, by such means, to help cut expenses in the family budget. The narrating for the fashion show was done by Edythe Brown. Following the show, a social hour was enjoyed and refreshments were served under the direction of Myrtle Batesole. Page 222 NOTES FROM THE FIELD 223 $38 ae: te Photograph submitted by Donna T. Smart EMIGRATION STAKE (SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH) LUNCHEON HELD IN RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING, May 25, 1961 Left to right: Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor in the General Presidency of Relief Society; Dean B. Norberg, former president, Emigration Stake Relief Society; Belle S. Spafford, General President of Relief Society; Wilburn C. West, former President Emigration Stake, now President of the Eastern States Mission; Donna T. Smart, President, Emigration Stake Relief Society. Sister Smart reports: "For the recently appointed stake board, this luncheon and reception was a successful and enjoyable endeavor. We planned and cooked for some 220 people. All of the members of Sister Norberg's recently released board, with one exception, were present to be feted and honored. The members of the General Board of Relief Society who reside in our stake, six in number, were present, with the exception of Sister Winniefred S. Manwaring, who was attending a Relief Society convention. We were highly honored and favored by the presence of General President Belle S. Spafford and her Counslor Louise W. Madsen. "In the true spirit of Relief Society, some of our talented sisters added musically to the afternoon. The combination of piano, two violins, and flute was unusual and lovely. The Singing Mothers, directed by the new chorister Maurine Lyman, beautifully presented three numbers. The highlight of the afternoon was the talk by Helen Spencer Williams, a member of our stake, who spoke of the faith-promoting experiences in the restoration of the Bee Hive House. Sister Williams was a member of the committee which supervised the work of restoration. "In keeping with the pioneer theme, we draped the tables in blue and white checked cloths — made by us — and we used gold accents for our Relief Society colors, as well as pioneer dolls for centerpiece interest. Our serving girls were dressed in checked gingham aprons and sunbonnets. "We were grateful for our training and traditions in Relief Society, as we planned, sewed, decorated, cooked, and programmed this first real activity of our new stake board. The helpful, willing spirit of our sisters in the gospel is truly inspiring." 224 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962: a4 E ay Photograph submitted by Amy P. Willis CHEYENNE STAKE (WYOMING) VISITING TEACHERS CONVENTION, May 27, 1961 Amy P. Willis, President, Cheyenne Stake Relief Society, reports: "In the second year of our stake's organization, approximately 150 visiting teachers were honored at our convention, the theme of which was 'Visiting Teachers Around the World.' Special awards were presented by the stake visiting teacher message leader, Jeanne D. Alley, to forty-three visiting teachers who reached the goal of one hundred per cent throughout the year. Represented in the picture are part of these sisters, and because of great distances to travel, others were unable to be in attendance. As a conclusion of the program, a skit was presented to introduce the summer messages." Piictosraph sulted byaGlorialM. Dil AUCKLAND STAKE (NEW ZEALAND) RELIEF SOCIETY BOARD ASSEMBLED AT STAKE RELIEF SOCIETY FUNCTION Front row, seated, left to right: Gertrude Murfitt, First Counselor; Gloria M. Dil, President; Airlie Eagle, Second Counselor. Back row, standing, left to right: Hine Amy, work meeting leader; Muriel Hay, —— ees NOTES FROM THE FIELD 225 Secretary-Treasurer; Polly Paniora, theology class leader; Anita Chate, social science class leader; Marguerite Ottley, Magazine "representative; April Garlick, literature class leader; Grace Bratton, visiting teacher message leader; Evelyn Kennerley, organist; Ata Pedersen, chorister. Gloria M. Dil, President, Auckland Stake Relief Society, reports that this picture represents the first complete board of the Auckland Stake Relief Society. For the occasion, cach ward was assigned a demonstration on each function of Relief Society work. 'The Relief Society presented an evening's entertainment and instruction for the fathers and familics of all the Relief Society women in the stake at the stake center. The stake board class leaders prepared teaching aids showing the guests the scope of work covered in our lessons. Each ward and branch was assigned an item, some depicting the work and advantages of the development of talents. A sponge cake competition, one section for a plain sponge cake, and one section for a decorated cake, showed that the sisters are really accomplished cooks. Our Singing Mothers presented two numbers, and the children enjoyed several games." Photograph submitted by Berenece B. Darlev MYRUM STAKE (UTAH), HYRUM SECOND WARD PRESENTS "RELIEF SOCIETY YESTERDAY, TODAY, AND FOREVER" AT ANNIVERSARY SOCIAL, March 14, 1961 President Vesta R. Allen stands second from the right in the front row of the sisters who are standing; Virginia N. Larsen, Second Counselor, stands at the right in the same row; First Counselor Alta L. Petersen stands second from the left in the second row; Secretary Della A. Nielsen stands at Sister Petersen's right. Berenece B. Darley, President, Hyrum Stake Relief Society, reports: "This year the Hyrum Second Ward had, as their guests for the anniversary party, the other two Hyrum wards Relief Society sisters. One of the outstanding parts of the program was the presentation 'Relief Society Yesterday, Today, and Forever.' It was not only very inspiring, telling the story of our wonderful Relief Society, but highly entertaining, as well. Everyone enjoyed it. We were all thrilled by the talent presented by these faithful sisters." 226 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 Photograph submitted by Nina H. Beecher NORTH BOX ELDER STAKE (UTAH) WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS, COUNSELORS, AND STAKE BOARD MEMBERS VISIT INTERESTING PLACES IN SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, June 27, 1961 Nina H. Beecher, President, North Box Elder Stake Relief Society, reports an interesting trip: '""This group traveled by bus from Brigham City to Salt Lake City to visit the Deseret Clothing Factory and International Peace Gardens. We had lunch at the Lion House, and afterwards were taken on a tour of the Relief Society Building. Every ward in our stake, except one, was represented, and all but one member of the stake board were present. It was a very enjoyable trip, as well as informative, and the sisters had a very good time." Photograph submitted by Violet W. Hulet PAROWAN STAKE (UTAH), PAROWAN FIRST WARD RELIEF SOCIETY HONORS ELDERLY SISTERS AT SOCIAL, May 22, 1961 Front row, seated, left to right: Amelia J. Topham; Amelia P. Orton; Luella R. Adams; Hattie Holyoak. Back row, standing, left to right: Barbara Adams; Nellie Pritchard; Martha Dalton; Alice Holyoak; Nettie Robinson; Sarah Connell. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 227 Violet W. Hulet, President, Parowan Stake Relief Society, reports that a party was held for all ward members, May 22, 1961, honoring the faithful sisters assembled for the above picture. "The total of their ages is 819 years. All have been active, not only in Relief Society, but in all the other auxiliary organizations open to women in the Church. They represent stake Relief Society presidents, ward presidents and counselors, organists, class leaders, and work meeting leaders."" Verses extolling the work of each sister were read in tribute. Photograph submitted by Joie M. Hilton NORTH CENTRAL STATES MISSION DISTRICT LEADERS AT RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE, July 28-29, 1961 Front row, seated, left to right: Olga Hanson, Lake District; Bernice Wickham, Ontario District; Margaret Wells, South Dakota District; Greta Damstedt and Dola Hofeling, Sioux District. Second row, seated, left to night: Clara Niemi, Lake District; Norma Whitney, South Dakota District; Beth Hatch, Doris Youngs, and Jolayne Harrison, Manitoba District. Third row, standing, left to right: Valerie Spillett, Fort Williams Branch; Norma Paakanen, Lakehead District; Myrtle Halden, Dakota District. Fourth row, standing, left to right: June Benson and Betty Sievert, Mankato Branch; Beverly Harrington, Dakota District. Joie M. Hilton, President, North Central States Mission Relief Society, reports: "Pioneer week, July 28th and 29th, we held our first mission-wide Relief Society Conference. All eight districts were represented, with some seventy sisters participating. Over half of the sisters came from far distant branches, the greatest distance being from Dauphin, Manitoba, Canada, 630 miles. Informative registration slips were attached to snapshots of each sister and her entire family, and displayed beside a large map outlining the mission districts and pinpointing the thirty-six societies. The theme 'Relief Society Space Age Pioneers' was carried throughout the proceedings. The Singing Mothers in the branches had prepared the songs 'When Mothers Sing' and 'My Testimony. 'They sang together for the first time as a mission chorus. 'As a Voice Speaking, with taped narration, and the film 'Unto the Least of These' were presented. Highly practical demonstrations were given of sewing helps, hat making, and various handiwork. Specific lessons helps were combined with the demonstrations for all five first lessons, as outlined for the coming year. The conference was concluded with a most inspirational testimony meeting. 'The reading of President Belle S. Spafford's testimony from the Mission Presidents Seminar helped to set the high spiritual tone of the occasion." 228 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—MARCH 1962 Photograph submitted by Helen H. Hawkins SPANISH FORK STAKE (UTAH), FIFTH WARD RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENTS HONORED AT ANNIVERSARY SOCIAL, March 20, 1961 Seated, front row, left to right: Maybell S. Enckson, present President; Alene T. Meldrum; Anna P. Hales; Blanche W. Gardner. " Standing, left to right: Mary E. Andrus and Thelma J. McKell. Sisters in the portraits on the mantel: Rebecca S. McKell and Annie H. Warner, deceased. Helen H. Hawkins, President, Spanish Fork Stake Relief Society, reports: "A history of this Relief Society was written for the anniversary social, and the sisters who have served in different capacities were invited to attend. As the names were read, each sister was presented with a corsage. Faithful and diligent service has been the aim of these sisters." Communication Viola Ashton Candland Words are often feeble things When we have need to speak To one whose heart is troubled Or one whose faith is weak. If eloquence is needed, Hope is a message to impart, Let spirit speak to spirit And heart commune with heart. When Christ expressed his love for us, Mere words did not suffice; He spoke by spirit and by deed, And with the voice of sacrifice. SACRED MUSIC FOR THREE PART LADIES CHORUSES Northwest Banff-Lake Louise Tour Including World's Fair at Seattle leaving June 23 Eight-day World Fair Leaving June 2 including Victoria, Canada Ten-day World Fair Leaving June 9 including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, and Victoria, Canada Ten-day World Fair Leaving July 6 including Reno, San Francisco, Redwoods, and Victoria, Canada Hill Cumorah Tour Leaving July 20 Alaskan Tour Leaving first part of July ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7TH AVENUE SALT LAKE CITY 3, UTAH Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 La COME, YE BLESSED OF MY FATHER — Madsen.20 _ GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH — Schreiner 30 == GO YE FORTH WITH MY WORD — Madsen ace ED sl IF YE LOVE ME, KEEP MY COMMANDMENTS — Madsen.25 —_— INCLINE YOUR EAR — Wilkes.25 — IN THY FORM — Madsen.20 — LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY — Stephens 20 = LORD, GOD OF OUR FATHERS — Elgar cc.--0--- 25 ae LORD, HEAR OUR PRAYER Gives you the ultimcte WOM 20 i LORD, WE DEDICATE THIS in fingertip total HOUSE TO THEE — Madsen.20 electric living now | OPEN OUR EYES—Macfarlane.25 and for years to come. | ~~ THE 23rd PSALM — Schubert.25 Music Sent on Approval DF 0 ra ye a) oS >. Yo rem. Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah i Ss |!! Please send the music indicated above.! I | ' ' i, |! ' 1 C] On Approval (1) Charge! CL] Money Enclosed! | i ' i i] 1 A> Z Qa a Q oO a w When the future is allelectric, why buy anything but a Gold Medallion Home? U" E. Lst pee al A salt _— City 11, Utah | f of ets ICOM) f y, | lOO l {be S67 WG? | vy,: Page 229 UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. = now from = dealer To Follow the Flowers Dorothea J. Neilson E are blessed with beauty all around us during the greater part of the year, in the lovely forms of flowers. Each contributes to our enjoyment with its delicacy, its vibrant flowering, or its subtle fragrance. Each is outstanding and special in its own time, and for all we are thankful. However, if we reflect upon these bright arrays a moment with deeper thought, we find they set for us the example of life. There is the crocus, one of the earliest to bloom in the spring. It pushes ahead of the rest, as an example. Often a blanket of whiteness and cold still lies on the slumbering earth. It heeds the challenge — the dare — to begin! Its colors exhibit its character, some snowy white, others brilliant gold, and still others royal purple! None, a sign of following: this, the crocus, is leadership. Then, throughout the season of flowering, there follows a wondrous procession of enjoyment for all. And so in life do we dearly love and enjoy all those who make up and contribute something worthwhile towards the various aspects of our existence; those of the delicate spirit, soft-spoken, but deep. The one who enjoys life to its fullest, and is frank and brave. And those masses of others who are "just plain," but give to someone dear and close to them that which could be had from none other — a friendship, loyal, faithful, and true. Some who are too complex to explain; others, surface lovely, but shallow and quickly fading. And yet, withall, we know that this is life and all must be a part. I think my favorite of flowers is the chrysanthemum. There are many varieties to suit each taste, from the fragile pink to the deepest bronze. Each has a heart of sunny yellow. They are the stalwarts! They faithfully grow all summer long, gathering strength and experience for their flowering. Often they meet with adversity that destroys or cripples the less hardy. 'The chill winds blow and often the freezing snow falls early to blanket them. But when the sun shines again, they are not withered and broken, but put forth their beauty for all to see. They have weathered the storm and are all the more precious for it — because now they stand alone. 'They continue to bloom, the last of the season. They are without bitterness for their experience. Vital to the end, their departure is sudden and done in full glory. That is how to live. A traditional feature of attending Conference is the very special joy of a delightful repast at "AMERICA'S FINEST ICE CREAM STORE" Everyone appreciates the dignified and refined atmosphere that prevails. You will appreciate the beautiful enlarged store — 3 times larger. "Artistry in Pleasurefoods" HOVE, "DISTINCIIVE " ee 6 OUR ONLY STORE — 850 East 21st South — Open until Midnight — (Closed Sundays) Page 230 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles - 2 35 150 to 300 miles 0...39 300 to 600 miles - 0222 2. 45 600 to 1000 miles —00.0022 54 1000 to 1400 miles —0ow.64 1400 to 1800 miles 0 2. 76 Over 1800 miles 00002000000 ee..87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-258] 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah Snowdrops Ethel Jacobson White as the snow that lately Masked these beds, The snowdrops nod their heads To hang in a falling cadence On fragile stems, Etched and polished gems Carved from a breath of frost Into bells that ring With the sweet chimes of spring. See where each bell curls silver Fold on fold About bright tongues of gold, And crystal-pointed petals Prick the air — Snowflakes, captured there. HAWAII and the SEATTLE WORLD'S FAIR Combined in One Wonderful Trip! Leave APRIL 9TH, 1962 The day following the close of April Conference a You will travel with YOUR KIND OF PEOPLE! You will visit: THE FOUR ISLANDS IN HAWAII And you will see: THE AMAZING WORLD'S FAIR "Century Twenty-one!" The program and the price will delight you! Write or call for our FREE day-by-day program that will give you all details. Address: VIDA FOX CLAWSON TRAVEL SERVICE 216 South Thirteenth East DAvis 8-0303 or Elgin 9-8493 Salt Lake City, Utah Remember The Best in the West Travel with Us! Page 23] WORLD'S FAIR leaving throughout summer Reserveations must be made early for these tours. HAWAIIAN TOUR June 7—June 24 L. D. S. PAGEANT TOUR July 28—August 20 For further information regarding your travel please write or call MARGARET LUND TOURS 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah HU 6-1601 — HU 5-2444 — AM 2-2337 Birthday Congratulations Ninety-five Mrs. SusssNAw WacstTAFF McGuieE Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Sopu1a ANDERSON WoRKMAN Heber City, Utah Mrs. Detta DruceLtta McKEOWAN Vernal, Utah Ninety-four Mrs. MINNIE PRICE Downey, Idaho Mrs. WILHELMINA FREDRIKA GUTKE PRICE Downey, Idaho Ninety-three Mrs. SarAuH FRANcIS ALLRED Fairview, Utah Page 232 Mrs. Loutse BrockBANK REYNOLDS Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-two Mrs. FLorRENCE WESTOVER PLATT Safford, Arizona Ninety-one Mrs. Marie JORGENSEN CARLING Shelley, Idaho Ninety Mrs. ANNA WAKLEY BLOXHAM Downey, Idaho Mrs. Gitpa CuRISTENA CHRISTENSON W ASDEN Lovell, Wyoming Mrs. Katie Taytor DANSIE Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. GENA JOHNSON FROESER Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. ExizaBetTH Hankin DEMAIN Clearfield, Utah Mrs. Marcaret Victoria Davis Malad, Idaho Mrs. Mary WELLs LESSER Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. EvizaBETH ADELAIDE WAKEFIELD WorTLEY Prince Albert, Canada Mrs. JoHannaH Marie LuNDGREEN CHRISTENSEN Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Marte JENSEN LARSEN Ephraim, Utah Produced and distributed by @d AGN F mee Deseret anil LIVING SOUND i'. A NSA is the best! It's the finest recording made, pressed on top-quality unbreakable vinyl, in THIRTY-SIX long-play hifidelity records (33% speed). Two voices alternate in the narrative. Each record ends on a chapter with a three-second pause between each chapter. Included with the handsome 2-volume album is a full-color booklet containing ten Arnold Friberg 'Book of Mormon" paintings with descriptive information. The price is modest and terms are available with no interest or ccarrying charges. This recording is ideal for family night, Priesthood or group study, and individual listening. Henna atten 44 East South Temple DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed you will find ( ) check charge. Amount enclosed $ Number of sets 002.:20-cccceeeeceeeeeees Residents of Utah include $1.50 sales tax, $1.60 postage per set. NAME uo ceeecceeeecemenecccececccececcccccecsesesceccesecesenceecssoncessacecececessecscsnssncscesrsseansesesenscersnersuseuessensrassnssanscenaecnesnsennsearaneseese ADDRESS oo. Uooo. Ccc --ceccscecceeeccescceeececscceccensecessceesccecacccaceeseeececseneesnesoesseccessscasesaecsaseseesesesseueancesscessssresceceaeansrseanmaamenenssss ites cs eensecseaesenavensons--seeaonssnennssassensacnsenennecsosenssannenaesnessecracs ZONE ne only8QQeR As low as $5 down, $5 a month 0 ) money order ( ) I have an account. Please ( ), Down payment ( ). ES, =e ccoueccceecasecsnseccseresscecececeeeeeee Full) amount eeovvevoeveaovoeoeevpeesecoeeeeevseeve see eed Al i if "economy package" amounts of $10,000 or \ ENS-E 20-165-41450 Second Class Postage Paie at Salt Lake City, Utah SEP 62 more can be obtained at substantial savings. Many policies can have an "insured insurability" feature added that will enable you to purchase more insurance in the future Is your life insurance without new evidence of your insurability. Learn more about the features of new Beneficial Life policies that mean more benefits for you. Call your local Beneficial Beneficial? For the young business executive on the way up, few plans can match Beneficial's Commercial Whole Life plan. Insurance in ae ff 7 ~—. ~ f "Z es ~ a Life man soon. Mance > Virgil H. Smith, Pres. 
