DECEMBER 1962, Vol 49 Number 12 Lessons for March My a. Sk WN x ey When Day Is Done Alice Morrey Bailey What do they think of, the shepherds on the hill, At the twilight hour when the wind is still, When the shadows lengthen in bronze and gold And the sheep go to water, then turn to the fold? The old one welcomes the long day's end And the dreamer thinks of the night as friend. What do they think as the sun's last hue Turns the hills deep purple and the sky deep blue? The old one numbers his lambs from the spring, And how many fleeces the shearing will bring, How many lambs for the Paschal Feast, How much for the best ones, how much for the least; How many lambs at the highest price, All perfect and white for the sacrifice. What do they think when the day is spent And the earth is wrapped in the firmament? The dreamer studies the galaxy And ponders of time and infinity. He strives for the truths on the tip of his mind And feels that his memory left them behind. There is something within that is more than man Which yearns for expression beyond his span. He thinks of the shepherds of Bethlehem And the message the angels sang to them. What do they think when the night breathes deep, With the sheep bedded down and the lambs asleep? The Cover: 'La Madonnina"' From a Painting by Roberto Ferruzzi Frontispiece: ''Abiding in the Fields" Photograph by H. Armstrong Roberts Art Layout: Dick Scopes Cover Lithographed in Full Color by Deseret News Press Fm Near and Sar Thank you for the July and August issues of The Relief Society Magazine with their fne articles on Henry David Thoreau. I have not only read them with a great deal of interest and delight, but I shall make notice of them in the next issue of the Thoreau Bulletin and then place them in my permanent 'Thoreau files (Literature Lessons 33 and 34 by Briant S. Jacobs). —Walter Harding Secretary The Thoreau Society Geneseo, New York The article "A Permanent Home," by Norma Dee Ryan, in the October issue of the Magazine expresses my thoughts exactly. All my life I have worked for security, but there is no security anymore, except in the Church. The Church is a great shield and protector in_ these troubled times. We who belong to it are lucky and blessed. —Flizabeth C. McCnmmon Seal Beach, California Before coming on my mission to Japan, I was always anxious to read the fiction stories in the Magazine. Since coming on my mission I have learned to appreciate the priceless value of all the articles, as well as the stories. The Magazine is such a help in strengthening our testimonies, better enabling us to encourage Relief Society work here. J am looking forward to the time when I will be able to use the homemaking suggestions in my own home. —Carol A. Smith Tokyo, Japan Thank you for publishing many new writers in the Magazine. In the past issues I have noticed many names that I did not recognize. Naturally, I like the work of the writers who appear over and over, but I also know the thrill of having something accepted for the first time. —Clara Laster Tulsa, Oklahoma 874 May I say a few words of praise for the poem series "Portrait of Freedom," by Alberta Huish Christensen, in the September issue of the Magazine — beautifully, powerfully done, such a fine look of "'Americaward." —Shirley Howard Cedar City, Utah I wish to express appreciation for the Magazine. The stories and lessons are so helpful and thought provoking. In New Zealand, the social science lessons have had an added meaning, as we remember President and Sister Ariel S. Ballif, and the things they taught us while presiding in New Zealand. _—Mrs. Muriel Kehoe Maromaku, New Zealand The September issue of the Magazine was so beautiful I just had to tell you. I think it is the most artistic of any so far. —Dorothy Clapp Robinson Boise, Idaho I would like to compliment you on The Relief Society Magazine. It is tremendous. I obtained a copy from one of my fellow missionaries, and was glancing through it to see if there was anything good to read. The stories are really interesting. They give me a_ greater understanding of the roblems of running a home and what my mother had to go through. It is wonderful that the women of the Church have such a high class Magazine to read. —Elder Ned E. Sweat Coleraine, Ireland The Relief Society Magazine is a welcome part of my mail. I especially enjoyed the serial "Sow the Field With Roses," by Margery S. Stewart (concluded in June 1962). It had all the sparkle and adventure to make it a memorable story. —Barbara Wahlquist Provo, Utah THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE DECEMBER 1962 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Marianne C. Sharp Editor Vesta P. Crawford Associate Editor Belle S. Spafford General Manager 
Content
SPECIAL FEATURES Parental Responsibility 0 cc. EssecseseeeeseccsceeseeeenececcceececesceeeecccseceaceeneeeeccteaneeesomeeeecceeesDavid O. McKay 876 Nathan Eldon Tanner Appointed to the Council of the Twelve _2202 eccccccccescececseeceeeseeeseeeeesneeenecees 882 Bernard P. Brockbank Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve -000 0 0..: ccceesseseeeseees 885 The Relief Society Annual General Conference ou.. I. EteseeeseccecseeeeseeesseacenecsseeeesseeeeeenesHulda Parker 887 The Breath of Life — National Tuberculosis Association 2.0 teeeeccecceeeseeeeeeeesJames E. Perkins 903 FICTION Christmas With Auntio 22 0ccccccccceccceccceececnnceeessesneecsnnesenccceeeeesscesceeeneecnsneeacceseeaneeneceseHelen H. Trutton 890 One Little Christmas Gift 22.00.02. CceccccceeececeececeeeseeescnenceceeecessceueeeecaceenceeseencceseessSylvia Probst Young 898 Out of the Wilderness — Chapter 6 oo cccecccscseeccceceeeeceececeoceeceseccescacecesceeeanecceneseneecseesShirley Thulin 921 GENERAL FEATURES From Near and Far ooeeceecccceeccecesneececceceeeneeneeseseeeeees 7 874 Sixty Years AGO un.. Cecseccesesceeceecesseesesssssseececsseesceceenuececuenssseenessssnseaccescecesessceasnaceaseesceceanececeeseencenecsneneseneecscenees 904 Woman's Sphere ooiineie. CicceeecceceecesnceeecceenceececescceccecececceeesseeaccenececeecsseesceesestecsenatececseneceeeRamona W. Cannon 905 Editorials: The 132d Semi-Annual Conference ooo cieeceececeeceececceeeeeececceeeeececeessssenecccsneeecceececeseenenensess 906 Christmas in the Home cooieeeeccccceccicceeceeseceececceececceeeceeseceeeseceeseecsececceceeseeeseVesta P. Crawford 908 Birthday Congratulations..0.000..0 cee 7 _ _ 952 FEATURES FOR THE HOME A Christmas Eve Family Party -22 eccssssssesssscseeccecesecesensenceseeeneseeeesecceeesLorraine Hyde Clawson 909 Handiwork for Christmas oo ecceccccccscccceseessscescesessesceccecsescesesseceeceececeeeesnseeseesAdele Williams Worsley 912 Easy Christmas Cookies -o c cccssceccseenn. Myrtle E. Henderson 918 Cora E. Cook — Specialist in Household Handicraft 2 eecccececeeccceseesceseeeececceceeceeescececeeensenecsneencceeeeee920 LESSONS FOR FEBRUARY Theology — The Waters and the Land.. Roy W. Doxey 926 Visiting Teacher Messages — '''He Who Has Repented of His Sins' ai " " Christine H. Robinson 931 Work Meeting — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Clean (Part II) wwe. Virginia F. Cutler 933 Literature — Herman Melville oo cece ccccceecccecesscecececeseeeceecsecesececeveveeasereceeecececneneeceseeesBriant S. Jacobs 935 Social Science — Application of the Law in the Dispensations of Man Ariel S. Ballif 942 POETRY | When Day Is Done — Frontispiece occ.. CeceececcecececececcccececececeesecceneeesesceetesseneceeAlice Morrey Bailey 874 What Is Christmas, by Mabel Jones Gabbott, 881; The Pheasant, by Gladys Hesser Burnham, 884; The Street You'd Love to Live On, by Helen F. Parker, 896; Words After Snow, by Ida Elaine James, 897; Whistling Carols, by Evelyn Fjeldsted, 903; Room With the Red Woodbox, by Maude Rubin, 917; The Fog, by Linnie F. Robinson, 917; Seagulls, by Ida Isaacson, 920; Where Are the Nine? By Hazel Loomis, 925; Plea, by Betty G. Spencer, 948; Thoughts, by Catherine B. Bowles, 952.

Parental Responsibility President David O. McKay [Address Delivered by President David O. McKay at the Relief Society Annual General Conference, October 3, 1962] ors, members of the Relief Society General Board, representatives from Relief Societies throughout the world, sisters and brethren, while listening to the excellent addresses delivered by Sister Larsen and the three members of the Presidency of Relief Society, I have been deeply impressed with the thought that this is one of the most significant gatherings in all the world. In the first place, in this — Spafford and Counsel- 876 audience filling this historic Tabernacle to overflowing, is gathered one of the largest assemblies of women in the world. In the second place, you are honored by being presided over by three of the greatest women in the world, and I choose my words advisedly. Next, the motive of this gathering is the noblest, because you have in your hearts the desire, the purpose of teaching your children, teenagers, and adults, the gospel of Jesus PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Christ, the greatest message in all the world. And today you have met together for the first time since the Supreme Court of the United States has re-emphasized or has passed on the rule of re-eemphasizing your divine obligation to teach the word of the Lord to your children. Since you last held a conference of this kind, the Supreme Court of the United States has made it unpatriotic for public schools to teach your children to pray. So, I think we are meeting on a most important occasion. What I said about the greatness of this audience I apply to the membership of the Relief Society in all the world. What I said about your Presidency I have also said to others outside the confines of the Church organization itself. And now in what I am going to say, | desire the inspiration of the Lord to reemphasize the responsibility of this body of Relief Society members to save souls as one of the obligations placed upon you by the Prophet Joseph himself. I should like to make a plea to you this afternoon to teach your children and others out of the books of the Church, the way to life and salvation — a plea for more parental responsibility. As a preface to the message I feel impressed to emphasize, I shall make brief reference to some facts and educational trends in early United States history. In 1850, the character and culture of the American people commanded the respect of the entire world. European parents sent their sons and daughters to our institutions that they might imbibe this faith-inspiring atmosphere. The Sabbath was 877 nationally recognized and observed. The churches were well attended. Divorces were rare. Today, according to the latest figures available, lawlessness is on the increase, the cost of crime at all levels in the United States is $22 billion, over $4 billion more than is spent for education. It represents a cost of $128 last year for every person in the United States. The crime rate has increased thirty-four per cent in the past five years, while the population has increased seven per cent. In other words, the rate of growth of crime outstrips the rate of growth of the population by nearly five to one. Sisters, what has happened to change this Christian concord of 1850 into this criminal chaos of 1962? NE hundred years ago, Ameticans were still being reared in public schools which included religious instruction. The great New Fingland Primer, which for more than a hundred and fifty years had been the textbook of the American schools, was just passing into discard. Eighty-seven per cent of the contents of this remarkable book, which had built the sturdy character of fathers, grandfathers, and great-grandfathers was the Bible. But from that time on, the Book of books ceased to be an important factor in public instruction. The lawmakers in Washington were intent, and commendably so, to make effective the First Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, which says: "Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or pro- 878 hibiting the free exercise thereof," to which we all subscribe. Ostensibly to make more restrictive this amendment, last June, the Supreme Court of the United States, by a vote of six to one, made unconstitutional the repeating of the following brief prayer written and recommended by the board of regents for use in the New York public schools. And this is their prayer: Almighty God, we acknowledge our dependence upon Thee, and we beg Thy blessings upon us, our parents, our teachers, and our country. By making that unconstitutional, the Supreme Court of the United States severs the connecting cord between the public schools of the United States and the source of divine intelligence, the Creator himself, "in whom we live and move and have our being." Mr. Justice Black points out in his personal note added to the decision of the Supreme Court that "It is neither sacrilegious nor antireligious to say that each separate government in this country should stay out of the business of writing or sanctioning official prayers and leave the purely religious function to the people themselves, and to those the people choose to look for religious guidance. To me, the ruling is surprising, when we realize that the noblest purpose of the public schools as a function of government should be to teach loyalty and obedience to the laws of the country. Our country's greatest asset is its manhood, upon which depends not only the survival of the individual freedom vouchsafed by the ConstiRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 tution and Bill of Rights, and all other ideals for which the founders of the Republic fought and died, but the survival of the best that we cherish in present-day civilization. NLY through proper education can these fundamental principles become fixed and _ guiding influences in the lives of human beings. Our educational system will radiate such principles only to the extent that we employ in our elementary schools, high schools, colleges, and universities men and women who are not only eminent in their chosen professions, but loyal to the Constitution of our land; influential as leaders, noble in character. The most potent influence in training youth to cherish life, to have increased respect for human kind, to keep their word of honor, to love justice, is the life and personality of the teacher. He who reputedly was the wisest American (Emerson) said: "Character is higher than intellect; a noble soul will be fit to live as well as to think." By law, the public schools of the United States must be non-denomr national. They can have no part in securing acceptance of any one of the numerous systems of belief regarding God and the relation of mankind thereto. Now let us remember and emphasize that restriction applies to the atheist as well as to the believer in God. Last June that ruling called attention to my feeling, which I wish to emphasize today — attention to the responsibility of revitalizing religion in the Church and in the home, making prayer much more PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY important than it has been in the lives of our children. To members of the Church such admonition is but a reemphasis of the word of the Lord as given in the divine commandments to parents who have children in Zion, "or in any of her stakes which are organized, that teach them not to understand the doctrine of repentance, faith in God, and of baptism and the gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of the hands, when eight years old, the sin be upon the heads of the parents. For this shall be a law unto the inhabitants of Zion, or in any of her stakes which are organized" (D & C 68:25-26). The real tragedy in America is not that we have permitted the Bible to slip out of our public schools, but that we have so openly neglected to teach it in either the home or the Church. Never before was there such need of revitalizing the teaching of faith and repentance on the part of parents. Never before in the history of our country was the state in greater need of young men and young women who cherish the higher life in preference to the sordid, the selfish, and the obscene. RECORDS indicate that four serious crimes were committed each minute in the United States last year, and many of them by young boys and girls. It is true, of course, that not a few of these delinquents come from broken homes in which children have been denied proper training. May I tell you a story. Once I had great pleasure in training a wellbred colt. He had a good disposi- 879 tion, was clean, had a well-rounded eye, was well proportioned, and, all in all, was a choice equine possession. Under the saddle he was as willing, responsive, and co-operative as a horse could be. He and my dog "Scotty" were real companions. But "Dandy" resented restraint. He was ill-contented when tied, and would nibble at the tie rope until he was free. He would not run away, just take the bridle off his head and stand free. Thinking other horses felt the same, he would proceed to untie their ropes. He resented being confined in the pasture, and if he could find a place in the fence where there was only smooth wire, he would paw the wire carefully with his feet until he could step over to freedom. More than once my neighbors were kind enough to put him back in pasture. He learned even to push open the gate. 'Though his depredations were provoking and sometimes expensive, I admired his intelligence and ingenuity. But his curiosity and desire to explore the neighborhood led him and me into trouble. Once, on the highway, he was hit by an automobile, resulting in a demolished machine, injury to the horse, and _ slight, though not serious, injury to the driver. Recovering from that incident, and still impelled with a feeling of wanderlust, "Dandy" inspected the fence surrounding the pasture. He even found the gates wired. So, for awhile, we thought we had him secure. One day, however, somebody left the gate unwired. Detecting this, "Dandy" unlatched it, took "Nig," 880 his companion, with him, and _together they visited the neighbor's field. 'They went to an old house used for storage. "Dandy's" curiosity prompted him to push open the door. Just as he had surmised, there was a sack of grain. What a find! Yes, and what a tragedy! The grain was poison bait for rodents! In a few minutes "Dandy" and "Nig" were in spasmodic pain, and shortly both were dead. OW like "Dandy" are many of our youth! They are not bad; they do not even intend to do wrong, but they are impulsive, full of life, full of curiosity, eager to do something. 'They, too, are restive under restraint, but if they are kept busy, guided carefully and rightly, they prove to be responsive and capable; but if left to wander unguided, they all too frequently find themselves in the environment of temptation and too often are entangled in the snares of evil. Parents should be _ sufficiently companionable with their boys and girls as to merit their children's confidence. They should be companions with them. When _ parents shirk this duty, perhaps teachers can succeed where parents fail. 'Teach the boys that it is chastity during youth that gives vigor, strength, and virility of manhood. Teach the girls that chastity is the crown of beautiful womanhood. When young men and young women learn that, and join hands in holy matrimony, with a love that entwines their hearts, it is the memory of a virtuous life that contributes to the happiness of the home — not the memory of philandering or the suspicion of one or RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 the other's having been unfaithful in youth, instead, a memory that they came together as God would have them, prepared to go through life as parents worthy of pure children. It is chastity, not prostitution that contributes to the perpetuity and virility of the race. "Train up a child in the way he should go" is a worthy admonition to parents and teachers for all time! One day he [Jean Valjean] saw some country people very busy pulling up nettles. He looked at the heap of plants, uprooted, and already wilted, and_ said: "This is dead; but it would be well if we knew how to put it to some use. When the nettle is young, the leaves make excellent greens; when it grows old it has filaments and fibres like hemp and flax. Cloth made from the nettle is worth as much as that made from hemp. Chopped up, the nettle is good for poultry; pounded, it is good for horned cattle. The seed of the nettle mixed with the fodder of animals gives a lustre to their skin; the root, mixed with salt, produces a beautiful yellow dye. It makes, however, excellent hay, as it can be cut twice in a season. And what does the nettle need? Very little soil, no care. No culture, except that the seeds fall as fast as they ripen, and it ls difficult to gather them; that is all. If we would take a little pains, the nettle would be useful; we neglect it, and it becomes harmful. Then we kill it. How much men are like the nettle!' After a short silence, he added: "My friends, remember this, that there are no bad herbs, and no bad men; there are only bad cultivators." [ quote this from Les Miserables to impress us all with the responsibility of guiding children and youth. Our Sunday School and other auxiliary organizations offer excellent opportunities as aids, but not as sub- PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY stitutes. 'The responsibility of parents is to see that their boys and girls are put in the environment of these meetings and take advantage of their aid in guiding the young from babyhood to adulthood. I have quoted this to you before, but I think it is appropriate this afternoon. He stood at the crossroads all alone The sunlight in his face; He had no thought for the world unknown, He was set for a manly race. But the roads stretched east and the roads stretched west, And the lad knew not which road was best. So he chose the road that led him down, And he lost the race and the _ victor's crown. He was caught at last in an angry snare; Because no one stood at the crossroads there To show him the better road. 881 Another day at the selfsame place, A boy with high hopes stood; He, too, was set for a manly race, He was seeking the things that were good; But one was there who the road did know And that one showed him which way to go. So he turned from the road that would lead him down, And he won the race and the victor's crown. He walks today the highway fair Because one stood at the crossroads there To show him the better road. God inspire parents and all teachers, and leaders of quorums and auxiliary organizations, all organizations in the Church, to stand at the "crossroads," and lead youth onward and upward along the way of truth and integrity into the presence of God, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. What Is Christmas? Mabel Jones Gabbott Is it the star atop the tree; Is it the gift box — mbbon-bright? Is it the song the angels sang To humble shepherds that star-filled night? Is it the Wise Men from the east; Is it their frankincense and myrrh? Is it the gladness in Mary's face; Or in Joseph's protecting her? Is it a child's expectancy; Is it the gay wreath at the door? Is it the love that Jesus taught? Oh, yes. All this and more. Nathan Eldon Tanner Appointed to the Council of the Twelve ELDER NATHAN ELDON TANNER was sustained as an apostle and member of the Council of the Twelve of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints at the Saturday afternoon session of the 132d Semi-Annual Conference, October 6, 1962. 'This appointment fills the vacancy in the Council occasioned by the death, in May 1962, of Elder George OQ. Mornis. Elder 'Tanner brings to his new and sacred calling humility and a sense of purpose, as well as comBves Nathan Eldon Tanner 882 petency and inspiration that mark him as an outstanding servant of the Church. 'Two years ago he was called to be an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, and for the past eighteen months he has pre sided over all the missions of Western Europe, with headquarters near London, England. "Few men are chosen for high office in the Church who have a richer heritage and more varied background of training and experience than Nathan Eldon Tanner" — so wrote President Hugh B. Brown for The Relief Society Magazine, when Elder Tanner was appointed an Assistant to the 'Twelve. He is of the sixth generation of Latter-day Saints on both sides of his family inheritance. His greatgrandfather John Tanner was an associate of the Prophet Joseph Smith in Zion's Camp and in Nauvoo, Illinois. His great-grandfather on his mother's side of the family, James S. Brown, was a_ soldier in the Mormon Battalion and a noble and honored pioneer. Elder Tanner was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, May 9, 1898, and three years later went to Canada with his patents, Nathan W. And Sarah Edna Brown Tanner. In 1919 he was graduated from the Alberta Normal a ELDER AND SISTER NATHAN ELDON TANNER AND FAMILY % Seated in front: Sara Isabelle Merrill 'Tanner; Elder Nathan Eldon Tanner. Back row, standing, left to right: Mrs. W. S. Jensen (Isabelle); Mrs. C. R. Walker (Ruth); Mrs. H. S. Rhodes (Zola); Mrs. G. L. Spackman (Beth); Mrs. L. Williams (Helen). School. Later in the same year, he married Sara Isabelle Merrill of Hill Spring, Alberta, in the temple at Cardston. 'They are the parents of five lovely daughters: Ruth (Mrs. C. R. Walker); Isabelle (Mrs. W. S. Jensen); Zola (Mrs. H. S. Rhodes); Beth (Mrs. G. L. Spackman); and Helen (Mrs. L. Williams). 'There are twenty-three living grandchildren and two deceased. Elder 'Tanner's distinguished career in the field of education began with his appointment as a teacher in Hill Spring, where he added to his small teaching income by operating a store and doing farm chores. Later, he became principal of the Cardston Public School. He was elected to the Alberta Legislature in 1935. After serving as speaker in the legislature, he became a member of the provincial cabinet as MuLnister of Lands and Mines. In this capacity he was influential in determining the provincial policy for regulating and encouraging oil and gas production in Alberta. He was appointed chairman of the Alberta Research Council in 1942, and became provincial Boy Scout Commissioner in 1946. He has been president of the Merrill Petroleums Ltd., a director of the Toronto Dominion Bank, and many other business organizations. In 1956 Elder 'Tanner was awarded an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from the Brigham Young 883 884 University. At the time of his call to be an Assistant to the Council of the 'Twelve, he was serving as a member of the Board of Governors of the University of Alberta. LDER Tanner's Church activity began in his early years, and after serving as an officer in various auxiliaries, he became bishop of the Cardston First Ward in 1932, where he had previously served as a counselor. He also served as a member of the High Council of Alberta Stake. In 1938, after moving to Edmonton, he became president of that branch, where he was instrumental in building the first chapel in Edmonton, and the seminary building at the University of Alberta. At the organization of Calgary Stake in 1953, he became president and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 served in that position until the time of his call to be an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve in 1960. During his presidency the commodious and impressive Calgary Stake Center was built. In accepting his call as a member of the Council of the Twelve, Elder 'Tanner fervently expressed his testimony of the gospel: I want to bear you my testimony, my brethren and sisters, that if every member of the Church would accept the call of our prophet today and live the gospel and keep the commandments of our Heavenly Father and become missionaries in very deed, we could contribute more to the cause of peace than all the power that might be gathered together by all the governments and all the men in uniform. May we prove worthy of our membership in the Church and Kingdom of God is my prayer. The Pheasant Gladys Hesser Burnham When gold and bronze and red of fall Have burnished ditchbank's tattered edge, And ragged goldenrod stands tall Along the marsh, among the sedge, The multicolored pheasant hides, All wary of the season's chill. Protective plumage now derides The innate caution of his will. He hesitates and cocks an eye, Crouches, sprints across the loam, Clucks at his maneuver, sly, Triumphant in his hidden home. Bernard P. Brockbank Appointed Assistant to the Council of the Twelve N October 6, 1962, at the () 132d Semi-Annual Conference of the Church, Elder Bernard P. Brockbank was sustained as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve to fill the vacancy occasioned by the appointment of Elder Nathan Eldon 'Tanner to membership in the Council of the Twelve. Elder Brockbank has been a devoted and successful mission president for two years, serving first as president of the North British Mission, and later as president of the Scottish Mission. He recently conducted the session at which the new Glasgow Stake was formed by President McKay and Elder Nathan Eldon Tanner, in the native land of the paternal ancestors of President McKay. Elder Brockbank was born in Salt Lake City, Utah, May 24, 1909, the son of 'Taylor P. Brockbank and Sarah LeCheminant Brockbank. He graduated from Granite High School and attended the University of Utah and George Washington University, majoring in business studies. He has been a prominent business man, builder, and contractor in Salt Lake City and has contributed much to Civic improvement and community activities. Before his appointment as President of Holladay Stake in May 1959, he had served as a counselor in two Guttenberg, Ltd. Manchester, England ELDER BERNARD P. BROCKBANK bishoprics, as bishop of the Winder Ward, and as a high councilman in both the Big Cottonwood and Holladay Stakes. He filled a mission to Great Britain in 1929-30, during which he was president of the Leeds District. Elder Brockbank was married to Nada Rich of Logan, Utah, November 11, 1935, in Washington, D. C. The marriage was later solemnized in the Logan Temple. They are the parents of six children: Loren Rich, 885 ELDER AND SISTER BERNARD P. BROCKBANK AND FAMILY Center: Nada Rich Brockbank and Elder Bernard P. Brockbank. Standing, left to right: Von R.; Roger R.; Diane; and Bruce. This picture was taken in 1960 at the time Elder Brockbank was called to preside over the North British Mission. 'Two other sons, Loren Rich, and Bernard Park, Jr., are not in the picture. Bernard Park, Jr., Diane, Bruce, Von, and Roger. In concluding the address which he gave upon the acceptance of his new calling, Elder Brockbank spoke of his gratitude for the opportunity 386 to serve the Church and to be a witness to the restoration of the gospel: J pray for the ability and inspiration to serve the Lord and my fellow men. | am thankful for the atonement of our Savior Jesus Christ and for the principle of repentance The Relief Society Annual General Conference 1962 Hulda Parker General Secretary-Treasurer N a beautiful autumn setting, Relief Society workers from all over the world assembled in the historic 'Tabernacle on 'Temple Square in Salt Lake City and received inspiration, instruction, and renewed enthusiasm for the work through the sessions of the Relief Society Annual General Conference held 6n Wednesday and Thursday, October 3 and 4, 1962. The universality of the organization was strongly felt through the presence of leaders from such faraway places as Samoa, Australia, England, the European Continent, and South Africa, and when, for the first time in a Relief Society Conference, translating facilities and special interpreters were used to convey the messages of the conference to German and Spanish-speaking sisters in attendance from newly created Stakes in Germany, Switzerland, and Mexico. A total of 2,997 stake and mission officers from 344 stakes and 16 missions attended the opening session, the Officers Meeting, on Wednesday morning. All sessions of the conference were conducted by President Belle S. Spafford with her counselors, Marianne C. Sharp and Louise W. Madsen and the thirty-three other members of the General Board in attendance. Stirring and inspirational messages were given in the opening session by President Joseph Fielding Smith and Elder Mark E. Petersen, the Relief Society advisors from the Council of The Twelve. Each stressed the need for mothers in the Church to teach and set proper examples of modesty in dress and purity in thought. President Smith admonished the women of the Church to make their children aware of the pitfalls and dangers of living in this wicked world and to deplore the tendency to imitate the fashions of the world. Elder Petersen declared that "If the women of the Church would practice the kind of virtue the Lord speaks of, they could change this situation," and thus protect the virtue of their young people with a shield of integrity. In her Report and Official Instructions President Spafford told of the 887 888 outstanding increase of 17,000 Relief Society members during 1961, and the magnitude of the services and accomplishments of Relief Societies throughout the world as revealed in the annual reports. She also gave pertinent instruction relative to various phases of the work, stated new policies related to record keeping, and cited examples of the blessings and development that come through service and affiliation with Relief Society. The music for the opening session was provided by a_ well-trained chorus of Singing Mothers from the South Sanpete Stake under the direction of Bly M. Beal, with Elder Alexander Schreiner at the organ. HE Wednesday afternoon meeting was a general session for Relief Society members and the general public. All in attendance were deeply touched and inspired through the presence in that session of our beloved Prophet, President David O. McKay, who was the principal speaker. He appealed for greater parental guidance and training in the homes, in having prayer and instilling faith in the hearts of children, and in the development of strong characters. He declared that "Never before was there such need of revitalizing the teaching of faith and repentance on the part of parents. Never before in the history of our country was the state in greater need of young men and young women who cherish the higher life in preference to the sordid, the selfish, and the obscene." President Spafford and her counselors and Sister Charlotte A. Larsen of the General Board also RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 spoke in this session. President Spafford urged mothers to train and fortify their children for rich, serviceable lives by teaching them to study the standard works of the Church. She said parents should "train children in the use of the scriptures, for the Lord has made clear that it is the duty of parents to see that children are reared in light and in truth.' Counselor Sharp told of the greatest function of Relief Society through its entire program to build testimony in the lives of its members. Counselor Madsen emphasized the tremendous influence for good that can be exerted by women of the Church when they are unified in feeling and purpose, seeking power from our Heavenly Father in righteousness. Sister Larsen stressed the importance of keeping all of the Lord's commandments and the blessings that are realized through doing so. Under the baton of Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen, with Elder Alexander Schreiner at the organ, a chorus of 450 Singing Mothers inspired those in attendance through the music it provided in the general session. 'The participants in the chorus were from the American Falls, Bannock, East Pocatello, Idaho, North Pocatello, Pocatello, Portneuf, West Pocatello, Blaine, Burley, Cassia, Gooding, Minidoka, Raft River and Twin Falls Stakes. Wednesday evening approximately 3,000 Relief Society stake and mission leaders were warmly greeted by members. Of the General Board at a beautiful reception in the Relief Society Building. The second day of the conference Courtesy the Deseret News THE OPENING SESSION OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY ANNUAL GENERAL CONFERENCE, 1962 President Belle S. Spafford stands at the pulpit addressing the audience. Seated at President Spafford's right, First Counselor Marianne C. Sharp, and at her left, Second Counselor Louise W. Madsen. Seated at the right: Elder Mark E. Petersen of The Council of The Twelve, and President Joseph Fielding Smith, President of The Council of The Twelve, advisors to Relief Society; Sister Jessie Evans Smith. Members of the General Board of Relief Society are seated in front, and the Singing Mothers are seen in the background, with their conductor, Florence J. Madsen, of the General Board of Relief Society, seated at the right. Was devoted to impressive presentations in the Tabernacle featuring the various courses of study for the 1962- 63 season, and to specific instructions for stake and mission officers in separate departmental sessions. The presentation "An Eye Single to My Glory" introduced the theology course, the sixth year of the study of The Doctrine and Covenants. A glimpse into some of the writings of the authors to be studied in the fifth year of the course on American literature was given in the dramatization "Stairway of Surprise," and a new social science course on "Divine Law and Church Government" was featured in the presentation "For God So Loved the World." The presentation ""I'oward Ideal Womanhood" based on the life of Mary Fielding Smith emphasized an application of eternal principles contained in the visiting teaching messages for the new season. Elder Frank W. Asper was at the console at both sessions in the 'Tabernacle on 'Thursday. Elder Marion G. Romney of The Council of The Twelve addressed the 1:30 P. M. Session on Thursday telling of the function of Relief Society to administer to the spiritual and physical needs of people and of the great service that has been given by the sisters in "supplying clothing, preserving of foodstuffs, nursing the sick, and all that relates to the care of the poor." Separate departmental — sessions were held in the afternoon for presidencies, secretary-treasurers, work meeting leaders, choristers and organists, Magazine representatives, and theology, literature, and social science class leaders. 889 ristmas with "Auntie Helen H. RIVING alone the fifty miles from my apartment in Council City to Uncle Ben's and Aunt Sarah's farm in Willow County, gave me time to reminisce about the happy holidays I had spent with them in former years. Five, to be exact, and every one filled with the spirit of true Christmas meaning. This one would be just as glorious as all the rest. It had to be, because it would be my last one with them before Gary returned from _ his Church mission in Scotland, and I wanted to carry a lasting memory of an old-fashioned Christmas, free of expensive gifts, debts, and worldly frivolities that seemed so prevalent in the world. I wanted their way to be a pattern for Gary and me and our future family. Auntie's invitation to spend the holidays with them lay beside me on 890 Trutton the car seat, but every time I thought about it, my enthusiasm took a sudden nosedive. Usually, she wrote pages of bubbling, exciting plans and news, even though she would be seeing me in a few days, but this year, the sparkle just wasn't in her words. Maybe she was busier than usual, or tired, but, again, she might not be well, or perhaps Uncle Ben was sick? 'There was nothing to do but wait. I tried to relax a little in my driving, traffic was very light, and I visualized Auntie at about this moment. Likely, she was hurrying about the kitchen, dressed in a crisp cotton frock with an immaculate gay apron tied around her slightly chubby waist, taking care of last minute details. When she would spot my car coming up the driveway, she would rush out the kitchen CHRISTMAS WITH AUNTIE. Door, still clutching whatever object she was working with at the moment, whether it be rolling pin, bread pan, or maybe a cookie cutter. "Camille, darling, I thought you'd never get here," she would greet me with open arms. "We should see you more often." Then she would look down at her usually doughy hands and apologize. "I should be finished with all this, but I had a few last minute chores." I laughed aloud. Aunt Sarah purposely left the cookie and bread making until late afternoon so the delicious aroma of fresh baking filled the room and encouraged appetites, or so I suspected. Fruit cakes and plum puddings had been prepared several weeks ago and stacked away in the basement until tonight when Uncle would bring them upstairs, and after supper, they would be delivered to neighbors in Willow County. There would be a cake and a knit shawl for Widow Marsh, as everyone called her; the Kennedy family — they had six children and he wasn't always able to find steady work — so they would find special little gifts in their box, like gay red mittens and warm socks, soft rag dolls and stuffed animals, plus the small gifts I had brought for them, and, of course, several loaves of fresh, light bread. The elderly Brother Barnes would get a basket of Auntie's goodies, a warm knit scarf, and an invitation to spend Christmas with us; the Wilsons, Carsons, and others I couldn't remember would receive a gift cake or a pudding. Naturally, Miss Emily Green, Aunt Sarah's best friend, would spend Christmas with us. She always did. 891 UDDENLY big snowflakes came swirling down from the gray skies, spreading a fresh blanket of white over the countryside as I came near the farm. If only Gary could spend Christmas with us, I breathed, as I drank in the beauty and peacefulness of the picturesque setting. But that wasn't possible, for he would not finish his mission until August, and was accepting a position in the East immediately. We would be married in the temple upon his return and leave for Philadelphia within the week. Glancing down at Auntie's note again, I repeated aloud her exact words: "We're looking forward to your visit as usual." Surely, she would have said something if she or Uncle were ill. I had been imagining things, been too overanxious with this being my last Christmas with them. Or was I? Her note had included only a few other sentences. 'Telephone lines had been down in Willow County, I couldn't call. As I came around the last bend in the road, I caught sight of their neat white farmhouse nestled against the foothills, looking like a frosty painting on a Christmas card. A large glittering tree, decorated with brightly sequined lights, twinkled out its cheery welcome through the front window, and old Britt, the family dog, lazily got up from the porch and trotted out to meet me. Other than that, the place remained as quiet as a tomb after I stopped the car. Quickly gathering an armload of packages from the back seat, I passed loyal old Britt without even a pat as I hurried up the steps and knocked. There was a shuffling sound in- 892 side and the door opened. Auntie looked at me in astonishment. "Why I can't believe you could drive up without my seeing you. I must have really been preoccupied. Come in, Camille darling," and she hugged me closely to her as my packages tumbled to the floor. "Aunt Sarah, are you all right?" I asked when she gave me a chance to speak. "Of course, dear." "And Uncle Ben?" - "Same as ever." He came forward, kissing me on the cheek. "Sarah and I were just talking about how we're going to miss you next year." He picked up my packages from the floor and loaded my arms again. "We're mighty happy for you, though." "He's a_ lucky one." Auntie squeezed my hand. "Here, let me help you with those packages. I hope you haven't spent money on us." "Not much. Most of them I made. You taught me that," I said as we walked into the living room and placed the gifts under the tree. And then I noticed Emily Green was missing. Ae HERE'S Emily?" W Aunt Sarah turned away, but not before I saw the hurt look in her eyes. "She isn't spending Christmas with us this year." "Why?" I asked, astonished. "Ts she ill?" "No. Well, she's just not spending Christmas with us, that's all. Now, if you'll excuse me, dear, I'll finish up in the kitchen," and she hurried out of the room. "Why?" I repeated, turning to RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 Uncle Ben. "Emily is always here. She doesn't have any near relatives." "IT know, but things are different this. Year," he said, looking to make sure Aunt Sarah was out of hearing before he sat down beside me. "You see, they had a misunderstanding. Emily likely wouldn't come even if Sarah asked her." "They've been friends since they were children. Besides, it just isn't like Auntie to hold a grudge." "Sarah is miserable," Uncle Ben sighed. "Do you mind telling me about it?" He ran his hand through his thick gray hair before speaking. "It's ridiculous. Last fall, just before the county fair," he hesitated a moment, "Emily raises dahlias, you know." "Yes, I know." "She had a rare beauty. Sarah went up to see it a few days before the fair, and, well, Britt tagged along. That's not unusual," he looked quickly at me. "He often does." "Go on." "T don't know what got into that dog. He saw a mole digging, of all places, right by that prize dahlia, and before Sarah or Emily could do anything, he dug the plant up, trying to get the blame rodent. Emily was furious." "IT suppose she would be disappointed, but she must have known it wasn't Auntie's fault." "She should have. Sarah apologized and offered to pay for it. She even offered to give Emily her best dahlia." Uncle shook his head sadly. "Sarah didn't even enter her dahlias in the fair out of respect for Emily's bad luck." "Tf Auntie apologized, even offered CHRISTMAS WITH AUNTIE restitution, what more could she have done?" "T don't know, Camille. Sarah thinks it's up to Emily to speak up mipsee." "T hoped Sarah would try again, but she has not." "T'm sorry, Uncle Ben." UNTIE came back into the room and sat down opposite us. "Is Gary still happy on his mission?" she asked. "Yes, very," I answered, wondering if she had heard our conversation and come in to change the subject. "He's a wonderful missionary." "Tm sure of that," she smiled. Then, leaning back in her chair, she looked mutely out the window for several minutes before speaking again. "It's getting late. Tl fix something to eat." "Let me help you." I followed her to the kitchen. "Do we go the usual places tonight?" "Mostly. 'The Simpsons had a bit of bad luck this year, so we'll include them." She handed me a pitcher of milk. "And there's a new family moved into our community." "Oh! Aunt Sarah," I asked, after a silence, "couldn't I talk to Emily?" She glanced up quickly. "Ben told you?" "Yes." "No, dear. It wouldn't help," She said, opening the refrigerator and reaching for the eggs. "It's up to Emily now." "T could try." "Emily doesn't want my friendship. Would you like to set the table?" "Of course." 893 In a few minutes, we sat down to a platter of scrambled eggs, warm bread, raspberry jam, a pitcher of milk, and cookies. After Uncle blessed the food, Aunt Sarah smiled across the table at me. "You've been like a daughter to us. We'll be lost without you." "Tll miss you both, too. With Dad and Mother gone, I'd have been terribly lonely these past five years." I stopped speaking, overcome with emotion, and for some time, we ate in silence. We were going to miss each other, but that was only a small fragment of our lack of enthusiasm tonight. Nor was it entirely that Emily wasn't with us, either. We missed her very much, of course, but something else was missing, something intangible. It was peace in our hearts! "Maybe some Christmas you two can spend the holidays with Gary and me," I broke the long silence. Aunt Sarah shook her _ head. "We'd love to, but Philadelphia is a long way from here." "We may not always live in the East,' I remarked. "Gary is going to work for his Uncle Thad for awhile at least. We aren't buying a home until we're sure we want to live back there!" "Good idea," Uncle agreed, shoving his chair away from the table. "And speaking of good ideas, I'd better get the things from the basement." "Everything else is ready," Auntie called after her husband as he started down the steps. ITHIN a short time, the car was loaded and we were on our way. These, I thought, are the things I'm going to miss, living in 894 a strange city — driving along a country lane, watching the earth silently take on its beautiful fresh white armor as the snowflakes fall earthward, greeting old and dear friends, like the Kennedys, Emily, Sister Marsh, and others, riding through the countryside in a car filled with the spicy fragrance of new-made cookies and bread. Most of all, though, I would miss the two wonderful people sitting next to me. Only, Emily should be here with us, too, like old times. We were passing her house now. It seemed that Uncle Ben slowed down a little, but Auntie only glanced momentarily in that direction, and then looked the other way. Our first stop was at Sister Marsh's home. She greeted us with a cheery, "Merry Christmas." 'Taking Auntie by the hand, she said, "You shouldn't do things for me, Sarah. You do so much for everyone." '""How's that rheumatism?" Auntie inquired. "Oh, it's better, or I'm learning to live with it. I was just straightening up Roy's room." ''He's making it home for Christmas?" "Be here in the morning," she smiled. "The army will have to get along without my son for a couple of weeks. He has a furlough." "That's good news," Auntie replied, loosening her coat. "I'd just better give you a hand straightening up that room." Half an hour later, we left Sister Marsh and drove to the Kennedys. It was my favorite stop. Just watching six excited, happy faces converging upon us, and listening to their RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 gay chatter was reward enough for anyone. Mrs. Kennedy met us at the door, looking tired and worn. "You're all so kind to drop by. Come in, the children have a little gift for you." Each year the children presented us with these special gifts — drawings they had made at school. Auntie prized their offerings very highly, not for the skill, usually quite lacking, but that they were gifts from the children's hearts. "Daddy has a steady job coming up the first of January,' Mary, the eight-year-old told us. "Next Christmas we'll give you a better gift." AUNTIE slipped her arm around the little girl. "That's great — news about your Daddy's job, but we love these presents. I've saved every one." Mary danced around the room. "Really?" "Right," Auntie answered, and then turning to Mrs. Kennedy, she said. "You look tired. Are you all finished with the day's work?" "T just have to bathe Delores, then I'm finished. The children go to bed early." Without looking, I knew what Aunt Sarah was doing. She was taking off her coat again. "Well, now you just sit right in that chair and rest a bit. I'll give Delores her bath,' she said, shooing Mrs. Kennedy to a chair. "You look exhausted." Mrs. Kennedy protested, but Auntie insisted. Just where she got such bubbling energy after the busy day she had spent at home was a puzzle to me. But that was Auntie, always willing to help someone, CHRISTMAS WITH AUNTIE only, why wasn't she trying to be friends with Emily? FTER leaving the grateful Kennedys, we stopped at Brother Barnes'. He was delighted to spend Christmas Day with us. Next we went to the Carsons, Simpsons, and the new people named Sanders. Then the Wilsons, an elderly couple, and, finally, we were on our way home. We passed the Kennedys again and it was in darkness, and once again, we came to Emily's. From the road, I could see a small light flickering through the window. Uncle Ben started past just as Aunt Sarah called, "Stop, Ben, a moment." Uncle Ben brought the car to a stop and waited. No one said anything for several seconds. Finally Auntie spoke. "I can't have peace in my heart and be at odds with anyone." She looked at Uncle Ben and then off into the distance. "It is the birthday of Jesus. He was the Prince of Peace. I'll ask Emily to spend Christmas with us." Uncle slipped his arm around her waist and smiled down proudly at her. "TI have the best wife in the world." "T always thought I was the lucky one." She patted his arm. "I won't be long, Ben. Want to come along, Camille?" We walked quickly up to the door and Aunt Sarah knocked. No one answered, so she knocked again a little louder. Then we saw Emily coming to the door. "Hello, Emily," Auntie greeted her. "Hello," she answered. "Emily," Aunt Sarah smiled at 895 her. "I want us to be friends again. We want you to spend Christmas with us. Please forgive me for being so stubborn in not asking you earlier. I wanted to." Emily looked away a moment, then her eyes filled with tears. "Your heart is so big, Sarah. I'm the one who should be apologizing to you. I've been too stubborn to admit I was wrong." She was crying softly now, and Auntie put her arm around her and repeated, "You will spend Christmas with us?" "If you want me, Sarah. Come in,' she stood aside for us to enter, and for the first time, noticed me standing back of Auntie. "It's good to see you, Camille." To say the least, we were a happy foursome on our way home. Emily and Auntie chatted continuously, with Uncle Ben and me joining in every opportunity we found 'an opening. 'That wasn't often. Soon we were back at the farm in the living room, taking off our wraps and settling in our usual places, just as we had the past five years. Uncle Ben strolled over to the fireplace and poked at the fire before picking up the Bible from the table and sitting down in his usual favorite chair. As always, he was going to read the first Christmas from the second chapter of Luke. Leaning back contentedly in my chair, I watched the flickering blue and yellow flames dart crazily from log to log in the fire as I silently mused, if you toss one pebble in a pond, the waves spread and reach out. Peace was like that, too. If only people of all nations could feel the deep need to have peace in their hearts for all mankind, if they 896 were willing to go the second mile, as Auntie was tonight, they would be following the teaching of the one whose birthday we were commemorating. Reaching out, I took Auntie and Emily's hands in mine. "You know, this is the best Christmas ever." "It sure is," Emily smiled through tears. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 Uncle Ben's firm, strong voice could be heard over the crackling of the fire as he began to read: "And it came to pass in those days.'" When he came to the fourteenth verse, he looked tenderly over at Auntie. "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men." The Street You'd Love to Live On Helen F. Parker Along the street the trees are bare; Their deliquescent tips investigate the frosty air. A stone wall and the hedges, snow encrusted, Surround the houses, Tall Cape Cods, 'Skywards, Upthrusted. Knee deep in snow rose bushes stand and stare. Their leaves, dead, brown, and dry, Hang waiting in the quiet air. I am the stranger here — Newly moved into this place. I stare At all the stark beauty exposed to what my eyes might meet, And ponder — Can spring possibly add to the wonder of my street? Opposite Page: Winter in Yosemite National Park, California Photograph by Don Knight I fro Siren the neste een Scents fragrance va as the breath Moving through bra: ches, pulseless yet " Ove the winter's chill' and empty slope" we "ghee ¢ on: "3 hed a y ety = 7 x. These: will come bediity from this bairen h vA* = sweet interval when children' sing Beneath. The dogwood's luminous, ivory flower; =a Mtien faith, shall come Y6 warm awakening, ll the stone of winter' § blight and doom - | C Avy at last ron sping S beleaguered tomb, One Little Christmas Gitt Sylvia Probst Young HEN I came out of Miss Mandy's house two days before Christmas, the winter sun was fast disappearing behind the low western hills, and the sky was like a great, rainbow-painted bowl overhead — a special kind of sky that made the world look golden and glowing. Happy as my heart, I thought, as I held the cardboard box more closely, and hurried along the snow-covered road. Mother would be so pleased with a dozen fresh eggs from Miss Mandy's hens. Tomorrow we could make Christmas cookies and a pound cake and still have eggs to fry for breakfast on Christmas morning. But more important than the eggs in the box were the two nickels slipped inside of my glove. I cupped my fingers to feel them. What I could buy with two shining nickels! In the window of Van Wagoner's Mercantile were all sorts of toys. Night after night on our way home from school, Susie and I had stood with our noses pressed against the cold pane, gazing at the wonderful things there — harmonicas — storybooks — jackknives — and dolls — beautiful little dolls with rubber bodies and movable arms and legs. Ten cents would buy one of those dolls, and I had that much money! I had earned it and the eggs by doing Miss Mandy's dusting, and scrubbing her kitchen floor every Saturday morning since she had broken her leg. 898 Of course, I was sorry that Miss Mandy had slipped on her front steps and had to be an invalid, but I was real glad that she had asked me to do her work, for if she hadn't I wouldn't have had a chance to earn anything. Mama didn't have dimes to pay with, and almost nobody in Hillsburg had a hired girl, especially not a nine-year-old. No wonder I felt lucky! The kitchen was warm and bright, and Mama, who was stirring a pot of soup at the stove, turned a smiling face to me as I entered. Mama's smile was the thing you remembered most about her, for she was a smiling kind of person. I thought she was beautiful, with her thick, shining hair that looked like warm honey, and her eyes bright as Christmas lights. "Hello, Polly,' she greeted me. "How's Miss Mandy? Fine, I hope. And what do you have in the box, dear?" "Miss Mandy's feeling much better, today." I set the box down carefully on the table. "These are eggs," I said, "a dozen of Miss Mandy's fresh eggs." Mama beamed. "How wonderful, Polly. With our own hens on strike as they are, Miss Mandy couldn't have given you anything better." "But, Mama, that isn't all she gave me." I pulled off my glove and held up the coins for her to see. Little Tim and Susie, who had ONE LITTLE CHRISTMAS GIFT been playing with Mama's button box on the floor, came to look at my wealth, too. "Bless Miss Mandy's _ heart," Mama exclaimed, "now you can buy one of those little dolls in Van Wagoner's window." I was glad to hear Mama say that because I knew that Santa Claus was awful poor, and Mama had said she was afraid that he couldn't bring new dolls for Susie and me. Susie, who always liked to play with kittens and stick horses better than dolls, didn't mind at all, but to me dolls were very special. Samantha, the one doll I had, was forgotten in a summer rain and the paint on her face was almost. All washed away. She really wasn't very beautiful now. So the prospects of having even a little new doll seemed wonderful, especially since Mama had suggested it. She turned from the stove and her eyes were shining. "Put the eggs in the pantry, honey," she said, "and tomorrow morning we'll borrow Aunt Mary's cookie cutters and make cookies and a pound cake, too." HEN Papa came in with a bucket of white, foaming milk, the table was set with bowls of steaming onion soup and warm biscuits. "Well, isn't this a happy family," he observed. Papa was so thin, and I thought his eyes looked as deep as the forest. But it was wonderful to have him up and about again, it seemed he had been sick for so long. While Mama was straining the milk, I told Papa about Miss Mandy 899 and the eggs and my dime. He was real interested and pleased. "Now you can buy that little doll you've talked about," he said. "That's just what Mama said," I replied happily. Papa smiled. "Your Mama and I usually think alike." When Johnny came in from feeding the calves and our supper was over, Papa put a big log on the fire in the front room. 'There, by the dancing, warm light, we sat while he read the Christmas story from the old family Bible. We all loved to hear that wonderful story, even Susie and little 'Tim, for the way Papa read it made you feel you were on the plains of Judea hearing the angels sing. We talked about Bethlehem and the Christ Child, and why he had come to earth. "The happiest people in the world are those who would rather give than get," Papa concluded, "for they are following the example of the Lord." Papa and Mama believed in giving. I remembered more than once when we had gone without to give to someone who they thought was in greater need than we. "When you give what you want for yourself, that's when giving is really giving,' Papa had often explained. Now the log on the fire was almost burned away. 'Timmy lay asleep, curled up like a kitten on the big bear rug. Little fingers of frost were creeping around the windowpanes. "Tt's going to be a cold night," Papa observed, as he bent down to 900 get Timmy. "Time for bed, children, tomorrow's a big day." We went up the stairs thinking of the morrow. 'To us the day before Christmas, with corn popping, cookie making, and going up the hill for a tree, was almost as good as Christmas day. EXT morning the windows were silver sheets of ice, and when Papa came in from milking, his moustache looked as if it had been dipped in white frosting. "T hate to think of you hauling the milk in this weather,' Mama told him, and before he left she found a square of calico in her rag bag and tied it around his face. "T don't want you breathing that cold air or you'll be in bed again." "What Papa needs is a scarf to cover his face on mornings like this," she sighed, as we watched him going toward the barn to harness the horses. Turning to our own work, we cleared the breakfast dishes away in record time, and then our kitchen became a hive of activity as we prepared for Christmas Day. By noon the windows were all thawed out, Johnny brought the hand sleigh from the shed, and I went with him up the hill to get our Christmas tree. When we came back, Mama brought out a half dollar she had been carefully saving. "Polly," she said, "you can go to Van Wagoner's and get some peanuts — two pounds, and the rest in hardtack candy." My feet fairly flew along the glistening white road. I was thinking of the precious little doll that I wanted so much. The two nickels RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 were safe with the fifty cents in Mama's brown handbag that she had let me carry. There weren't many toys left in Van Wagoner's window now, and for a moment my heart sank, but then I saw it — one little doll still standing there. Mr. Van Wagoner was a round, jolly man with twinkling eyes. I thought he looked like Santa Claus' brother. He smiled at me when I came into the store, but he was busy showing outing flannel to Mrs. Christy, so I just wandered around looking at things. There was everything you could think of in that store from barn lanterns to penny candy. Usually I liked to look at the fancy trinkets in the showcases, but today I had eyes for a doll only. Then I saw it — a red bandana handkerchief in the window, right beside my precious doll, funny, I hadn't noticed it before. For some reason I thought of Papa then with the white frost covering his moustache. Papa had been sick with | pneumonia for a long time. It had only been the last two weeks that he had been out on his milk route again, and it worried Mama so much to have him out in this zero weather. "T should buy him a scarf of some kind to cover his face," she had said anxiously. Right then I had an idea — that bandana handkerchief would make a fine face scarf. I tried to turn my attention back to the doll, but thoughts of Papa and the handkerchief persisted. Papa — just thinking about him made my heart warm. Mr. Van Wagoner came to wait on me then. While he weighed out the candy and peanuts ONE LITTLE CHRISTMAS GIFT I was thinking of the first Christmas, and about giving gifts. Mama had always said that only the people who sacrificed to give really knew the meaning of giving. "Can I get anything else for you, Polly?" Mr. Van Wagoner asked, as he turned from the scales and held out a piece of peanut brittle to me. "The red bandana in the window — how much is it Mr. Van Wagoner?"' "Oh, that?" He took out a box from under the counter. "A lot of them in here," he said, lifting the lid, "and they're just ten cents each. Bet you're thinking of a present for your Papa." I nodded. 'My Papa," I told him, "needs something to cover his face on a cold morning. He hasn't a scarf. And I have ten cents that I earned myself." "Well now, isn't that nice?" Mr. Van Wagoner approved. "Not every man gets a present from his daughfer." "I think I'd like to buy one," I heard myself saying. Mr. Van Wagoner beamed. "I'll wrap it up. Let's see." He disappeared into the back room for a minute, and returned with a small piece of green tissue paper and a length of red twine. "Em going to make your Papa's present look really festive," he said. With wide eyes I watched him, and when he handed it to me I thought that I had never seen a package that looked so beautiful. Thanking Mr. Van Wagoner, I turned and went out of the store, but I didn't trust my eyes to look at the window where the little doll was still standing. 901 Mama didn't mention the doll when I got home, she was so busy I guess that she forgot, and I was glad because I wanted Papa's present to be a surprise to everyone. Johnny had made a stand for the tree, and he had brought it into the house. "Let's decorate it now," cried. So Mama let us start with the apples and popcorn strings. When we had finished decorating it, our Christmas tree was an unforgettable sight, with ropes of popcorn and rose berries, apples, bright red, and cookies cut in all sorts of shapes. Mama put the candles on and promised that we could light them for a few minutes before we went to bed. When supper dishes were done we gathered around the organ and, while Mama played, we sang "Silent Night," and "Away in a Manger," and all the other carols we knew. Susie HEN it was time to light the Christmas tree, and we watched in breathless wonder as one tiny hight after another flickered into view. When the last candle was lighted Papa blew out the lamp, and the wonderful Christmas tree stood glowing in the darkened room. All too soon it was time for bed. I watched for a chance, and when no one was looking, I laid Papa's present under the tree. Then I went to bed with my wonderful secret making me feel warm and happy inside. In the early Christmas dawn we trouped downstairs to see what Santa Claus had left. My old doll, Samantha, and Susie's Mary Jane were sitting proudly under the tree all dressed up in new clothes. The 902 clothes almost made the dolls look new, too. 'There was a harmonica for Johnny, and some _ building blocks for little Tim. And, wonder of wonders, somehow Santa had managed to leave a pearl necklace for Susie and a blue bracelet for me. Papa and Mama stood by smiling at our exclamations of delight. But when everything else had been examined, one little gift was still under the tree. "Papa," I said, "you forgot one present, there under the tree." "Well, so I did," he exclaimed, stooping down to pick it up. "I wonder whom this is for?" "It's for you," I said quickly, remembering that I had forgotten to write his name on it. With starry eyes I watched as he untied the red string. The whole family was watching, too. And Mama looked at me and gave me such a wonderful, sweet kind of smile that I knew I would never forget it. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 As Papa held up the red bandana, his voice got kind of chokey. "Polly," he said, "it's the nicest Christmas gift I've ever had in my whole life." "It will make a perfect scarf for your face on these cold mornings," Mama told him, and she tied it around his face to show us. My heart was singing, I hadn't known until then just how wonderful it was to be a giver. I was proud and happy, happier than I had ever been on any Christmas before. I think I knew a little how the Judean hill folks felt when they brought presents to the manger on that first Christmas morning. Later, when I was helping Mama clear up the breakfast dishes, she looked at me with glowing eyes. "Polly," she said wisely, "you have made your Papa and me so happy and proud, and this is the Christmas you will remember the longest, for today you have learned what Christmas really means." New Serial to Begin in January new serial "Keep My Own," by Kit Linford, will begin in the January 1963 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. The story narrates the adjustments and sacrifices by which a young bride, Irene Spencer, strives to integrate herself into her husband's family. Her ideal is a pattern of love and unity, which requires a mature devotion and the giving up of many treasures. The Breath of Life James E. Perkins, M. D., Managing Director National Tuberculosis Association T has been said, "It is a woman's world" and also "The hand that rocks the cradle shapes the earth." These two eloquently phrased thoughts are oft repeated and hence must hold the important element of truth. It is then to the women, the guardians of the family health, we would like to bring our short message. Along with our battle against TB, we should remember two more letters — "RD." RD stands for Respiratory Diseases. RD has for so long complicated and cost us many battles with Tuberculosis. Anything that damages lungs or hinders breathing must be of concern to your local TB Associations across the country. How many mothers have been awakened in the still, dark hours of the night to hear the gasping struggle to breathe and cry of a child suffering from Asthma? Bronchitis, Pneumonia, Emphysema, Influenza, Pleurisy, and even the Common Cold can be helped by the expanded research program financed by Christmas Seals. Won't you add Christmas Seals to all your holiday mail? Join us in our quest to save lives and ease human suffering. Support your local Tuberculosis Association by keeping and using the 1962 Christmas Seals. Whistling Carols Evelyn Fjeldsted Up and down the street he went each night Bicycle spinning on his route, Whistling carols loud and clear "Joy to the world" and "Peace on Earth." And as he whistled stars came out, And blinked approval of his joy, For David's music long ago Could not have brought more peace and cheer Than David in our little town, Whistling on his paper route. 903 nixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, December 1902 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN oF Att NATIONS" CHRISTMAS THOUGHTS: It is but a small thing to give of one's substance, but how great comparatively to receive the compensation of the soul that comes through reaction to the giver. The joy one feels but does not quite comprehend, which invariably comes afterwards to those whose hearts are attuned to harmony and love for all mankind.... The Christmas spirit is one of forgiveness, it partakes of the charity that forgives seventy times seven, delighting in doing good to suffering humanity — Editorial CHRISTMAS CAROL The wise men journey from afar, And follow close His guiding star; It stands o'er Bethlehem tonight, Imposing, wondrous, is the sight. O, hear the angels sing again, "On earth dawns peace, good will to men." He lowly in the manger's laid, No room for him can else be made... — Lydia D. Alder TESTIMONIAL TO SISTER M. I. HORNE: The anniversary of Sister M. I. Horne's eighty-fourth birthday was celebrated by the officers and members of the Relief Society of Salt Lake Stake.... President Angus M. Cannon addressed the sisters: I am very glad to be honored and privileged to meet with Sister Horne and the rest of the sisters.... I have been acquainted with her for fifty-eight years.... I thought while sitting here of the experience this woman has obtained in gaining a testimony of the Prophet Joseph Smith and in associating with the wives and brethren of some of the twelve apostles.... She was acquainted with the Prophet Joseph, and with his brother Hyrum, and with his sisters and with his other brothers.... When I have thought of a happy home and of the dignity of a woman, a woman of gentle and queenly dignity, I have thought of Joseph Horne, Sister Horne, their children, and the government of their family C — News Note RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE IN WOODRUFF STAKE: Sister Stevenson and Sister Badger, visitors from Salt Lake City, were on the stand... Sister Stevenson said the Relief Society work is a self-denying work... Spoke of the love and unity that should be in the family circle, teach our daughters how to be good wives and our sons to seek a wife by inspiration; said the duties of a Relief Society teacher were very sacred and they were the backbone of Relief Society.... Let us not forget the dead or neglect the wonderful work for them.... We are to be judged out of the books, and I believe one of these is the Relief Society books. We don't want to be at ease in Zion, we want to set an example that our lives will be acceptable to the Lord. — Katie H. Eppich, Stake Sec. NOTES AND NEWS: Mrs. Kipling, the mother of Rudyard Kipling, has just published, with her daughter, Mrs. Fleming, a little book of poems entitled "Hand in Hand." 904 MI ARY BRAN is an independent impresario, who in E\urope and America has presented the public such artists as Anna Pavlova, Vasalav Nyinsky, Yvette Guilbert, Jose Greco, the Stainislavsky Moscow Art Theatre, the Vienna Boys Choir. She has settled in Los Angeles, and has received some of the highest decorations for artistic achievement given in France, Italy, and America. UTH MEHRTENS, one of America's most distinguished newspaper women, is Bureau Chief of the New England area for Time Magazine. She brings to her responsible position a limitless curiosity and an agile mind. A Boston colleague describes Miss Mehrtens as one who "grasps any kind of news situation in a minute." She works quickly, and efficiently supervises her staff of reporters who were responsible for three cover stories in Time for 1961. HE death rate among married men and women is lower than among unmarried adults. Girls born in Sweden have the longest life expectancy of any women in the world —seventy-five years. Ramona W. Cannon RS. CHESTER WILLIAMS of Kanarraville, Utah, is chief of the volunteers fire department, composed entirely of women. Her group has been called "The Girls Who Go to Blazes." Numbering twenty-two women, including grandmothers and young mothers, the women assumed a responsibility necessitated by the men of the town being at work in other towns or on adjacent ranches. OMEN represent only seven per cent of the 166,000 persons listed in the United States National Register of Scientific and Technical Personnel. Most of these women work in the fields of biology and psychology. In medicine, women tend to go into pediatrics, obstetrics, gynecology, anesthesiology, general practice, laboratory diagnosis, and laboratory research. RS. ERWIN SMOGOR, of South Bend, Indiana, won first prize in Pillsbury's fourteenth grand national bakeoff. 'The prize was $25,000, the product, an apple pie with. Caramel and whipped cream cheese topping. 905 EDITORIAL DECEMBER 1962 The 132d Semi-Annual Church Conference HE 132d Semi-Annual Conference of the Church was held in the Tabernacle in Salt Lake City, Utah, October sth, 6th, and 7th, 1962. Under autumn skies, and in a valley golden with harvest, the saints from many lands assembled to hear words of testimony, inspiration, and direction from the General Authorities, all of whom were present for the conference sessions. President David O. McKay, Prophet, Seer, and Revelator, now in _ his ninetieth year, presided at and conducted all the general sessions and the Priesthood meeting. There was much rejoicing among the saints to know that the words of this conference were the most widely disseminated in all the history of the Church. Reception was excellent in Europe, Africa, the Islands of the Sea, and other far-off lands, as well as in all parts of the United States. 'The potential viewing audience on Sunday was estimated at seventy-seven million. Of much interest was the appointment of Elder Nathan Eldon Tanner, former Assistant to the Council of the Twelve, as a member of the Council of the Twelve. The saints assembled also participated in sus- 906 taining Elder Bernard P. Brockbank, President of the Scottish Mission, as an Assistant to the Council of the Twelve. President George Carlos Smith, Jr., of the Central States Mission was named Superintendent of the Young Men's Mutual Improvement Association, to succeed Joseph T'. Bentley. Marvin J. Ashton and Carl W. Buehner were sustained as counselors to President Smith. OREMOST among the many outstanding features of the conference was the opening address of President David O. McKay. Keynoting his address on the theme of obedience to the gospel in the life of the individual, President McKay declared: I believe that governments, institutions, and organizations exist primarily for the purpose of securing to the individual his rights, his happiness, and proper development of his character. When organizations fail to accomplish this purpose, their usefulness ends.... In all ages of the world men have been prone to ignore the personality of others, to disregard men's tights by closing against them the opportunity to develop. The worth of man is a good measuring rod by which we may judge the rightfulness or the wrongfulness of a policy or principle, whether in government, in business, or in social activities. Belle S. Spafford, President @ Marianne C. Sharp, First Counselor Louise W. Madsen, Second Counselor @ Hulda Parker, Secretary-Treasurer Anna B. Hart Edith S. Elliott Florence J. Madsen Leone G. Layton Blanche B. Stoddard Evon W. Peterson Aleine M. Young Josie B. Bay Mildred B. Eyring Charlotte A. Larsen Edith P. Backman Winniefred S. Manwaring Elna P. Haymond Annie M. Ellsworth Theories and ideologies exploited during the last half century present challenges more critical and dangerous than mankind has ever before faced.... Force and compulsion will never establish the ideal society. This can come only by a transformation within the individual soul. RESIDENT Henry D. Moyle declared that obedience to the gospel must be our ensign in order to establish peace within ourselves and make ourselves secure in the household of God. Our work, therefore, is to promulgate knowledge of God that all who listen may come to know God and thereby put themselves in the way of immortality and eternal Me. Our work is cut out for us once we accept membership in his Church and kingdom and obey the commandments of God. We become conscious of the reality and the actual existence of God — the Holy Ghost becomes our comforter and our guide. We must know Christ to become part of his household and prepare for the day of judgment, which will start at his house. N eternal quest is necessary to the attainment of a knowledge of God, President Hugh B. Brown Alberta H. Christensen Mary R. Young Mary V. Cameron Afton W. Hunt Wealtha S. Mendenhall Pearle M. Olsen Elsa T. Peterson Fanny S. Kienitz Elizabeth B. Winters LaRue H. Rosell Jennie R. Scott Alice L. Wilkinson LaPriel S. Bunker Irene W. Buehner Irene C. Lloyd Hazel 8. Cannon Hazel S. Love Fawn H. Sharp declared, in explaining the attributes of this knowledge and the way it may be obtained. As God is our father and the source of all truth, as we are all primarily interested in attaining eternal life, and as it is eternal life to know him, surely an open-minded and courageous study of him and his divine plan with respect to our salvation will be the most interesting and permanently rewarding of all ventures into the vast realms which invite man's questing spirit.... The restored gospel of Jesus Christ which we proclaim, when understood and accepted, will unite all men in a common cause, and then only will all new scientific discoveries be utilized for the benefit of mankind and then we shall have peace. A knowledge of truth will help men to be free. In his fervent and _ solicitous closing address, President McKay thanked all those who had participated in the conference and extended his blessing to the saints in all lands, and to all people everywhere. God bless you that you may realize the blessings that are yours through the revelation and restoration in this day and age of the world of the Priesthood of God, which gives you authority to represent him in this day of the gospel as given through Christ the Lord as the plan of salvation to all mankind. 907 Christmas in the Home el holidays are of long-lasting significance in the family pattern. Marked by family love and unity, they also set the pattern throughout the generations of those who have shared in the joy of the home, and who have carried its ideals in a design for affection and unity in the many new homes that are the branches of the family tree. Some small remembrance given in love, some gift requiring forethought and sacrifice, some handmade memento, may carry a long-continued aura of affection. 'There are many now grown old, and others at various stations along the lifetime progression, who recall a picture of father standing in the open door carrying in his arms the needle-boughed Christmas tree. And there are those who will not forget the blessed occasion of the exchange of gifts, with mother seated in the midst of the little ones. It is from the home that there must come the true and everlasting meaning of Christmas. It is there that children learn the difference between the symbol and the substance, the tinsel and the testament. The Wise Men, the shepherds, the star, the evergreen trees, the various customs in many lands — they are not Christmas — but they are symbols of Christmas. Such long-established and beloved symbols may help to impart the everlasting significance of the Christmas star and the birth of the Savior and this a small child can understand. Some children, even those who have not yet been to school, will listen to a few lines from the New Testament, wherein Luke speaks of the shepherds "abiding in the fields" and their journey to the manger. The children must be told that through the long centuries the people had looked for the coming of a King through the royal lineage of David — a King who would bring a message of salvation "from everlasting to everlasting." The children, seeing a star at the top of the Christmas tree, can be told of the new star that lighted the darkness of Bethlehem and shone above the place where the young Child lay. 'They may not understand the unlimited vastness of space and the innumerable suns and planets of the universe, but they can hear the story of a new light that came to illuminate the pathway for all children and for all people everywhere in every land, and through all the generations. And the Wise Men, journeying by the light of the star, coming from a far land, in search of a promised King — let the children hear for themselves the words of the Bible: "Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, there came wise men from the east." How quickly the Christmas Eve comes — how soon the Christmas Day departs — how soon the family is grown and the members scattered... How soon earth life is done. Let us cherish each moment with the children that the story of the first Christmas may become the reality of reverence and rejoicing. —V. P. C. 908 Color Transparency by Hal Rumel E have established a tradition in the family of having Christmas Eve dinner together in one of our homes. It is one of the few times during the year when all of us, my mother, brother, sisters, and children gather together, and we all look forward to it with keen anticipation. To me, it is the highlight of the Christmas season. It was our turn last year to have the party at my home, and what 910 fun it was to plan! From the first moment of their arrival, with everyone attired in his holiday best, the little ones scrubbed and combed, and wearing excited expressions, to the climax of the evening, when remembrances from Santa Claus were passed around, it was a truly happy occasion. The soft candlelight, the smell of pine, the warmth of the glowing fire and the gaily lighted Christmas tree combined to cast a magic spell. And the aroma of roasting turkey and freshly baked goodies added the finishing touch. The fireplace is the focal point in our living room, and the decoration I chose to hang on the wall last year dictated the color scheme for our table decorations. An old, worn violin was wired to large sprays of deep green pine. Attached to this were clusters of artificial fruits. Tables were set up in this room for the teenagers, and the tables were covered in cloths made from inexpensive drip-dry cotton in the bright colors of the fruits and greens. Centering each table were wicker sleds, sprayed with gold paint, trimmed with leftover bits of felt and velvet. Gold braid and paper decorations were glued on, and tiny bunches of fruit attached to both sides. These were filled with wrapped, homemade caramels. For place card holders, I sprayed pine cones gold, and tucked a tiny bunch of fruit in each one. In our television room, we set up a larger table for the younger children in the family. This was bright and gay, and especially interesting to them. Vivid red was used for the cloth, here, again in the cotton material. At each place was a candy cane with Santa Claus heads for the boys' places, and little girls' heads marking the girls' places. In the center of the table was a white candolier with white candles. Hanging from the branches of the candolier, in amusing positions, were wired pixie dolls, dressed in red, green, and white felt. At the base were fresh greens and white styrofoam balls. The dolls in their various positions caused a great deal of merriment for those little children. The grownups' table was in the dining room, and here, again, a bright color scheme was used. This table was more formal, but very festive by candlelight. I used a Bristol blue linen cloth which I trimmed in lime green fringe. The linen napkins were alternating blue and green. Tall blue tapers were used in the silver candelabra and glass hurricanes. Clusters of balls in assorted sizes, in blue, green, and silver completed the centerpiece. These were decorations that anyone could put together; but it was the use of many bright colors which were, nevertheless, complimentary to each other, against the simple beige background of my home, that made them warm and appealing. The candy filled sleds were given to each family as favors, and the children took home gaily wrapped trinkets from Santa Claus. No Christmas party would be complete without the singing of carols. And from the harmonies of the older members to the precious voices of the little ones, it was a heart-warming experience. We all had a prayer of thanksgiving in our hearts for our bounteous blessings, and I believe each one went to bed that night feeling that the real spirit of Christmas — gratitude for our Savior and love, one for another — was truly felt by all. 911 FARLY In the new year, Mother begins to plan and work on her decorations and gifts for the Christmas season. Her Christmas wreaths are beautiful to behold especially the ones which utilize the materials nature provides, If you wish to make a wreath of nuts and pine cones like the one pictured here, these are the things you will need: A styrofoam circle, which can be purchased at your florist or display house, or a substitute circle made of chicken wire stuffed with moss. Green plastic ribbon to wrap the circle or green or brown paint to Spray it. Hand, use the drill to bore a hole through the shell. Dip end of 2% inch piece of wire into the glue and Insert the same end into hole in nut. Set aside to dry. If you are adept with a jigsaw, cut pine cones into two-inch sections. Otherwise, ask your husband or butcher to do this, as there is no place on the wreath for a sawed-off thumb. Using the drill again, bore hole in back of pine cone, insert wire dipped in glue, and dry. Only the roses, Or tops of the pine cones, were used in the pictured wreath, but the other sections may be used. Now you are ready to form your wreath. Using your Imagination, e ° ele Williams orsle Handiwork for Christmas as neal Any hard-shelled nuts, such as walnuts, pecans, hazelnuts, Brazil nuts, acorns, horse chestnuts. Large and small hard pine cones. An electric drill set in a vise, with a small finishing nail inserted inStead of the drill. Stiff wire cut in 2% inch pieces, A jigsaw to cut through the pine cones. Florist pins that look like this or stiff wire formed in the same shape. Eb A commercial clue. Three yards of 214 or 3% inch MOSs green velvet ribbon. After your materials are assembled, either Wrap the circle wreath with green plastic ribbon, or spray paint it to conceal the white color. Next, holding a nut firmly in one 912 by Florence C. Williams push the nuts and pine cones into the styrofoam circle placing them as close together as possible in order to conceal the basic circle. When you have covered the front of the wreath completely, stick a heavy Wire into the back for hanging. To preserve your wreath for many years, spray it with clear plastic, which also gives it a lovely sheen. Make four or five loops of green velvet ribbon, tie it and insert it into the wreath with a florist pin. It IS now ready to hang on your front door, above your mantle, or it can be used as a centerpiece for your Christmas table. Mother happened to have three handsome brass bells which she placed in the center of her wreath before hanging on the door knocker. Color Transparency by Hal Rumel Christmas Wreaths The other wreaths pictured here were made in the same manner. However, in both these wreaths, various kinds of artificial frujt were used, as well as soft pine cones (both natural and sprayed gold), and colored Christmas balls. Around the edges of one, fresh holly was stuck into the wreath with florist pins. The other one is fin- => & Transparencies by Arthur Gritfin Free Lance Photographers Guild, Inc. Ished with Euonymus leaves. Why not try pine or cedar? As you walk in the fields and canyons nearby, open your eyes to the things around you, such as dried seed pods and weeds, and you can make your wreath an original creation to enjoy for many years. TARTING with the bag nestled in the pine branch directly below the candles this bag would make a lovely gift to be used for evening wear. Shop for an inexpensive cloth clutch bag, or if you have one of which you have grown tired, reline and recover it yourself. The one pictured here is black silk. In her ribbon box, Mother found quarter-inch velvet ribbon in shades of purple, green, and fuchsia, and one-inch black brocade ribbon embroidered with small field flowers. Using pins, and starting about 1/4 Baskets and Bags inches in from the side of the purse, she applied five rows of the varicolored velvet ribbon, tucking the ends under the band at the top, and going completely around the bag. Next, she glued the velvet ribbon in place. The brocade ribbon came next, then three more rows of the velvet ribbon, a repeat of brocade, another set of velvet, one more row of brocade, and last, the five rows of velvet ribbon. If there is not a band at the top of the bag to hide the edges, a piece of fine round braid may be glued on to cover the ends of the ribbons. Rummage through your ribbon box and dis- 914 cover the many attractive combinations you can assemble. The next bag (hanging below the candles), with the brightly colored flowers embroidered with a satin stitch and buttonhole stitch, is truly a work of art. Mother bought an ordinary tapestry bag for $5 and began working on it several months ago. She would pick it up in the evening while watching television, or carry it toa party. While sitting and chatting, she would take out her needle and embroider a flower or even a leaf. What an heirloom this will be. The first basket on the rim of the sofa (at the left) has been fun to use at Christmas, for her grandchildren know "Nanny" has a surprise for them when she goes to visit with iton her arm. It isa roomy, wicker basket with two jolly stuffed holiday figures sewed on, plus a row of gay red braid to trim the bottom. For a gardening friend, the next basket (center) makes an appealing gift. Made of shiny reed, it is filled with seed pods of the Oriental poppy. To make this, cut a piece of florists' oasis, or any other porous material to fit the shape of the basket. Leaving various length stems on the dried pods, push them into the oasis until the desired arrangement is achieved. A bright yellow bird perched atop the handle adds a note of spring. The circus basket (at the right) Color Transparency by Hal Rumel would be fun for someone planning a resort vacation. Spray a basket white, cut out circus animals of brightly colored felt, and glue them to the purse. Each animal could be decorated with discarded pieces of jewelry. To complete the illusion, add strips of gold braid to resemble the bars of a cage. The three small bags resting on the back of the sofa are made in the same manner as the first bag described. They were bought for $1 each in the basement of a department store. The red and white bags at the ends are especially treasured by the young girls in our family, for the figured Tyrolean braids decorating, the bags look well with both school clothes and afternoon ski outfits. The braid and ribbon on these three bags cover the entire purse. Plastic bags could not be used as the glue will not hold. One of the two burlap bags is lined with red, the other with orange broadcloth, with zippers inserted into the lining of each for a money purse. Mother trimmed the inside of the handles and finished the top of the lining with two-inch Swiss braid. The strips of burlap are sewed together with a zigzag stitch. To decorate the bag at the left Mother embroidered large pompons of colored yarn. The other burlap bag (at the right) has just returned from a jaunt to Europe, where it must have felt right at home, as it 916 is covered with peasants made of yarn, giving it an old-world look. Speaking of evening, what could be lovelier for your own daughter than her first party bag done in strips of baby blue velvet and soft blue and gold brocade ribbon, such as the one in the picture (on sofa at left). And now, why not a Christmas shopping bag for you? The large black felt one in the center will put you in a holiday mood, with its Christmas carolers and tree cut out of felt and appliqued with glue. Mother made the large red sewing basket (on sofa at right) for me several years ago, and I must say it always seems to be full. Find a durable basket, spray it bright red, and line it with red and white checked gingham with an attractive edging of scalloped blue felt inserted. Shape the lining to the sewing basket and sew it on by hand. A _ heart-shaped gingham pocket, trimmed in the same scalloped felt, is attached to the lining. Red felt geraniums, with green leaves, are cut with pinking shears, and sewed to the handle and rim of the basket. A 1/4 yard long tube of green felt is tied in a bow on the handle. From the ends protrude a bright red darning egg and pin cushion. Glued to the edge of the basket is a tiny farmer sitting in his wagon, looking to see if his clothes have been mended. HRISTMAS will be more festive in our house this year because of the pine cone and nut tree which Mother made for us. We will place it on a Chinese red lacquered compote which is centered in a wreath also made of nuts and pine cones, and use it on a low round table in the living room. Around the tree will be branches of freshly cut pine which have been fireproofed so we can tuck bright red candles here and there. What a warm and fragrant spot to gather for our stories and music on Christmas Eve. Gala Holiday Tree If you have studied the directions for making the nut wreath, it will be easy to make a tree for your home. From your florist or display house, obtain a styrofoam cone. These cones come in various sizes, and should be sprayed either green or brown, or wrapped with green plastic ribbon. If necessary, you can make a cone of chicken wire and moss, being careful to keep a true cone shape. Prepare the nuts and pine cones in the same manner as for a wreath, and push them into the styrofoam cone, beginning at the bottom. It is more attractive to use a full row of pine roses to start the tree. Next, place the nuts on the tree in groups of three, adding pine cones here and there, until you reach the top. To finish, place a pine cone rose on the top. Color Transparency by Hal Rumel When making any of her Christmas decorations, Mother accomplishes much more by drilling, gluing, or assembling whenever she has ten or fifteen minutes to spare, rather than trying to finish the product at one sitting. The tree can be an exciting family project and one that boys as well as girls will enjoy. 917 Easy Christmas Cookies Myrtle E. Henderson wag SS. Ny oe Courtesy American Dairy Association Sugar Cookies (Key recipe) Mix thoroughly: %, c. Soft shortening (part butter) Sift together and stir in: 5% c., sifted flour 1 c. Sugar 2 eggs 1 tsp. Baking powder 1 tsp. Flavoring (I like % tsp. Lemon 1 tsp. Salt and % tsp. Vanilla) This will make a soft dough. Chill at least 1 hr. Into desired shapes. Sprinkle with sugar if desired. And bake about 6 minutes at 400°. Chocolate Pinwheels Follow key recipe. Divide the dough into two equal parts. Into 1 part blend 2 squares unsweetened Roll out % inch thick. Cut Place on ungreased baking sheet 2 chocolate melted. Chill all the dough. Roll out white dough to % inch thick. Roll out the chocolate dough to the same size and lay on top of the white dough. Roll the double layer of dough gently to about Y%, inch thick. Cut the edges straight. Beginning at the wide side, roll up tightly to a roll about 2 inches in diameter and 12 inches long. Chill. Cut in slices % inch thick. Bake 6 to 8 minutes at Cora E. CookSpecialist in Household Handicraft Mrs. Cora E. Cook, of Naples, Uintah County, Utah, is a specialist in household handicraft. Her designs and her craftsmanship are an inspiration to all the needle and thread women who know her. Her rugs and quilts are beautiful, as well as useful. For Christmas 1961, Mrs. Cook gave each of her thirty-three grandchildren a handmade article. For these lovely and thoughtful gifts, she will always be remembered in the homes of her posterity. Many friends and neighbors of Sister Cook have been made happy with handiwork gifts. Mrs. Cook is partially paralyzed, but her handicap has been overshadowed by the courage and enthusiasm Mrs. Cook displays for her many hobbies, and for all her lifetime blessings. Seagulls Ida Isaacson What a pavilion of air Where gray gulls rise and soar at will, And winging skyward mount a stair Of ether, light, high, vast, and still. 920 Out of the Wilderness CHAPTER 6 Shirley Thulin Synopsis: Marian Morgan, a widow and mother of six children, has come to Montana to supervise assessment work on the mining property owned by the family. They encounter many difficulties, and they mistrust Jake Hadley, the owner of a neighboring mine, who has made protestations of friendship. While Marian and the older boys are repairing the roof on the cabin, three-year-old Jill wanders away and becomes lost in the wilderness. ARIAN and Jim hurried along M toward the road that led to the Silver Bear mine to get help. Jim's long, anxious strides made it difficult for Marian to keep up with him as they picked their way over roots and rocks. Daylight was slipping away, and Jill was out there somewhere in the wilderness alone, frightened.... "Jim, there's not much time left, is there?" Marian was talking more to herself than to him. "Hurry, Mother, just hurry." His words were so sharp that Marian knew something other than worry was mixed with them. "Jim, wait." As he turned, she could see there was something besides fright in his eyes, and there were lines of pain around his mouth. "Jim, what is it?" "Nothing, let's just hurry." "Oh, Jim, your wrist!" Marian saw that he was holding his right arm with his left hand. "Let me see it, son." "We haven't time. Every minute counts. "But." more. He strode out ahead of her and thereby dismissed further conversation. 'They were almost running now, but running where? Marian knew that Jill could be clear over the opposite mountain by now. But even as she thought this, something compelled her feet to move quickly in the direction of the mine. They hurried along in silence. Then Marian turned around to see where the sun was. It was setting on a ridge between two towering peaks, reluctant to go behind the mountain. It seemed to know how much its light meant to them. "Jim, will the men at the Silver Bear have something to light our way? 'Torches, maybe, or...?" "They have carbide lamps. They use them for light in the mines." "Oh, yes, I remember the carbide lamps." "I didn't think to bring ours. They're back in the shed. Come on, Mother, please hurry." They were coming to a clearing She could say no 921 922 now, and even after so many years, Marian recognized the woodenframed hole in the face of the mountain. It was their mine, the "Silver Star." "Jim.' Marian's feet were heavy, her body weary. She leaned against a tree and put her hand up to her pounding chest. "What's the matter?" he came back to her, a mixture of anxiety and annoyance in his face. "Ym I'm out of breath. [ll have to rest a minute... Just a minute." Jim wiped his forehead with the back of his left arm, and Marian saw the swelling in his nght wrist as he let go of it. She didn't say anything. She knew they must find Jill. 'There was no time for swollen wrists, or for being tired. She straightened up and tried to make her feet take her where she knew they must. Jim looked at the lowering sun, and then at the path that now began its steep climb over the hill to the other mine. "Mother, I think you had better go back to the cabin. I can go faster by myself." "No, Jim. I can't." "Then wait here. I'll go for the men and when we come back, you'll be rested." "No! I've got to go with you." "Mother, please. We are losing too much time." There was a new note in his voice. It was a note that hung somewhere between tolerance and anger. Marian knew he was right. She knew she must not slow him down, but how could she stay here alone? How could she just sit here on a rock and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 do nothing toward finding Jill? Finally her words came. Slowly she told him she would stay, but as he started to run up the path, she called him, called his name as though she were grabbing a floating log in the sea of bewilderment that swirled around her. Even as her words formed his name, she was sorry — ashamed. He stopped and turned. She lifted her hand and waved him on. He smiled briefly and waved in silent acknowledgment of what he must have known she felt, then went swiftly on his way, up the trail and out of sight in the underbrush. OR a long time Marian watched the place where he had vanished from her view. 'Too heartsick to think, too weary to move, she leaned there against the tree. 'Then realization began to take hold of her. She should have told Jim she would go back to the cabin. At least she could do something worthwhile there, get something for the other children to eat and comfort them. Here she could do nothing. It was too late to go now. She had said she would wait here. Why did she always make such poor choices, she wondered? Why did she seem to be so short-sighted? She looked around her. The last flickers of sunlight struck the mine entrance at an odd angle, and lighted part of the way inside. The rail was rusty from idleness, and partly covered with dirt. The old brown boards that outlined the mouth of the mine looked rotted as though a push would send them crashing to the ground. Marian's gaze was about to move on, when something caught her OUT OF THE WILDERNESS eye. Something peculiar about the ground where the dampness had settled just outside the mine. "Tt can't be!" she said aloud. Running to the spot which now revealed itself as truly the little girl's footprints in the wet earth, she knelt down. 'There were many prints in all directions, and she was sure they were made by fill. For a moment her thoughts came and went in almost hysterical unrealities. Then fear gripped her anew. Jill's in the mine, she told herself. And though she had been terrified when she first knew her baby was somewhere in the woods, she was even more so now. The mine, to Marian, held even worse danger than the trees and underbrush. From her honeymoon days she remembered the mine. David had coaxed so hard to get her to put on a pair of his coveralls and the heavy helmet with the light attached. "We won't go in very far," he had told her. "Just let me tell you about the work I'm doing, and show you the streaks of ore." Marian only gave in to him to avoid making his fine brow wrinkle in disappointment.... "Only because I love you very much," she had told him. OW, as she knelt in the warm dirt, near the damp place, she recalled how, after a few feet of flat ground with the rail and wooden ties running along, there was a sudden drop. David had led the way down a rickety old board ladder, to still another few feet of flat ground and then more ladders and everywhere old wood holding up the dirt ceilings and dirt walls, and water 923 mixed with green moss _ trickling down and running along, and blackness beyond the small circle of their lamps. "Jill! Oh, Jill, can you hear Mommy?" Marian screamed into the mine, not being able to control her voice now, or the sobbing of it. She took a few steps into the entrance and called over and over, but never the slightest sound came in return, only the odor of musty wood to annoy her nose, and the ominous silence of the darkness within gave answer. Marian stepped back outside to do her thinking. She knew she had to make a plan... Something, anything, but what? How long is Jim going to be? She wondered. I can't just stand here and wait. Jill must be lying in there hurt. P've got to go in and find her, she thought, but it's so dark... The carbide lights. Jim said they were back in the shed. Quickly Marian started towards the cabin to get a lamp. She had gone but a few feet, not even out of the clearing, when she heard the voices, men's voices, heavy and loud echoing against the mountains. She couldn't believe they had come so soon. "Jim, oh, Jim." She ran up the path, and then, as the men came within her view, she _ stopped, stopped and stared in disbelief. It couldn't be... But it was. Jim was carrying Jill piggyback, and she was laughing and Jim was grinning. "Mom, look. Jill safe and sound." "But she's she's." "She wandered into our camp a little while ago," Jake explained. "She must have followed the road? 924 from our cabin," said Jim. "I met them on the way. They were bringing her home." "Oh, Jill!" Maran took her from Jim and hugged her closely. "I found her footprints. I thought she was in the mine."" And when they got back to the mine, Marian showed them the tiny prints on the ground. "She had gone in, all right," one of the men said. "Tt was dark in there," Jill said. "There are so many prints that you couldn't see she came back out," Jake said. "Oh, Jim, let's get back to the cabin fast. The other children will be so anxious." "Let me carry her back," Jake offered. "We can, thanks, anyway. And thanks to all of you for bringing her back." "That's all right, I'm glad she followed that road," Jake said. "When kids get lost in these mountains they are hard to find. Dangerous place for kids." _ Marian studied Jake. Was he trying to make polite conversation, or to frighten her? The look in his eyes confused her. "Mommy, Spotty ran away," Jill said. "Oh, he did, did he?" said Marian. She hugged the little girl very close and said a silent thank you. "Poor little Spotty," said Jim. "I hope he'll be able to take care of himself." Then Jim looked in the direction of the departing men, and Manian knew he was wishing there was something he could do about their killing the deer. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 T' was so good to get back to the cabin that for a moment Marian felt a warm glow all about her. She felt as though she had come home. Why, yes, she told herself, surprised, the cabin really feels like home. It must be because we are all together, she thought. Jill couldn't understand all the hugs and kisses, and she mildly protested. "'m hungry," she finally announced, and that reminded the others that they were, too. "We were so worried that we forgot we hadn't eaten," Sue said. "Tell us how you found her, Jim," Jed coaxed. "We thought you wouldn't find her," 'Tommy said. And while the children talked excitedly, Jim made a fire and Marian opened fruit and heated leftovers and cut thick slices of her homemade bread. After the little ones were tucked into bed, Marian heated some water and helped Jim soak his painfully swollen wrist. "Jim." She didn't want to say the words that she felt must be said. "Jim, we'll have to go home now. You can't do anything with your wrist like this." "No." 'There was a finality to his voice that made Marian raise hers a little. "But we have to! You can't work now, and there afte so many things that need to be done. And I'm frightened, Jim. If Jill or one of the little boys should wander away, we wouldn't find them next time. We have to go back with Dick when he comes Saturday. That gives us two OUT OF THE WILDERNESS days to get all the clothes ready and packed." She finished wrapping his arm, then looked at him, sitting there, his head slightly forward, his chin firm. "Tll never let you sell out to Jake," he said. "We don't have to. Maybe somebody else." "No, Mother. That mine should be mine." "Let's not decide now." Marian went into her bedroom, with the unspoken words still hanging between them. For a long time she lay there in the darkness. She knew she had hurt Jim by giving up the fight, but she knew it was the only thing they could do. "Tf only I had listened to Charles in the first place," she said to herself, "if only." "Mom." Jim's voice came to her 925 from the darkness of her doorway. "You awake?" "Yes, Jim." "Tm not going home. If I have to do it all alone with my one hand, I'm not going home." Marian felt the determination in his voice there in the night. She also felt the disappointment and the hurt. "Let's talk about it in the morning, son," she said. But the morning was long in coming. The night was full of a number of little nightmares that blended into one frightening one. She woke up time and time again and went over to make sure Jill was still there. She heard time and time again the hurt in Jim's voice, and felt the distasteful bitterness that was within her. Just before the light came into her window, she had made up her mind what she had to do. (To be continued ) Where Are the Nine? Hazel Loomis Ten lepers crying from afar — Have mercy, Lord. Have mercy, Lord! The Master answered with a word... With a word, And they were cleansed that day. Ten lepers exultant, leaped and ran... Leaped and ran! One turned back — only one, And he a loathed Samaritan Who, falling at the Master's feet, A well — an everflowing spring Of thankful worshiping. One leper — cleansed — prostrate at the Master's feet, Waited for his Lord to speak The sorrowing impassioned line: You are but one, where are the nine? THEOLOGY e¢ The Doctrine and Covenants Lesson 46 — The Waters and The Land Elder Roy W. Doxey (Text: The Doctrine and Covenants, Section 61) For First Meeting, March 1963 Objective: To learn that although one of the signs of the last days is destruction on a' waters, yet t the Lord warns rns and-protects-the-farthfut A ckground S "pointed out in the last lesson, the Prophet Joseph Smith and a party of elders left Independence landing for St. Louis by canoe. In the Prophet's own words, we read:. In company with ten Elders, I left Independence landing for Kirtland. At McIlwaine's Bend, Brother Phelps, in open vision by daylight, saw the destroyer in his most horrible power, ride upon the face of the waters; others heard the noise, but saw not the vision. W. We Phelps. "This-is suggested in the opening verses of "Section 61, where the Lord declares that their sins ateforgiven. At continues to make "(Gorn the' reason, Aor this Bp RE for I, the Lord me sins, and am-merciful unto those/who Confess their sins sally pete hearts (D & C 61:2). Bear Record By 'Pestimadiy These elders were permitted to travel upon the waters that they The next morning after prayer, I re-;. = ceived the following: sa I:202-203; might bear record of their se D&C, Section,61),, ences. Some of the elders traveling. Kav Lb t/- f= 6 ae} | by water needed to preach to the It rece that the elders in the} | eC of the dangerous_. Waterte becg fusd "(Ibia, 61:3-4 party were greatly "humbled beca of the great-noise and the hgrtrible " ane the adversary o 926 people on both sides of the river who were wok in unbelief. ) Re \ What was there in this experifia about which they could bear # ( LESSON DEPARTMENT sic 2 emt ee i$ On-- the re ————— They could also be thankful that the Lord was all-powerful for the benefitof the faithful. (Ibid., 61:5-6.) = tan ocitanding example of pro> ction to the faithful is that of/ elaman's two thousand sons. (Al Ma 53:10-23; 56:41-57.) True faith God will bring preservation to a n (peop (Alma 44:4.) President Wilford Woodruff, who was appointed by President Brigham Young to gather saints living in New England and Canada, said: I did as he told me. It took me two years to gather up everybody, and I brought up the rear with a company. When I got into Pittsburg with this company it was dusk, and I saw a steamer just preparing to go out. I walked nght up to the captain and asked him if he was ready to go out. He said he was. "How many passengers have you?" ""I'wo hundred and fifty." "Can you take another hundred?" "I can." "Then," said I, "I would like to go aboard with you." The words were hardly out of my mouth when the Holy Ghost said to me, "Don't you nor your company go aboard that steamer." That was enough; I had learned the voice of the Spirit. I turned and told the captain that I had made up my mind not to go at present. That steamer started out. It was a dark night, and before the steamer had gone far she took fire, and all on board was lost. We should probably have shared the same ) fate, had it not been for that monitor: within me (The Deseret Weekly, Vol. 53, ) No. 21, Nov. 7, 1896, Nelson, "p & Pub. Spk. 436-44; cf. Discourses of wie ) 6¢ POF page 295). SY he Coren | The Lord Reasons" ord said? He would reason ese eldefs as he/ had done men in days of gld (D & C A Foie revelation showing 927 forth the reasoning of the Lord with his servants is Section 50, verses 10 through 24. (Lesson 35, Relief Society Magazine, September_1961.) Why did the Lord give this revelation; was it for these few elders only? It is apparent from the following verses that the counsel concerning the waters was for all saints in the latter days: Behold, I, the Lord, in the beginning blessed the waters; but in the last days, by the mouth of my servant John, I cursed the waters. Wherefore, the days will come that no flesh shall be safe upon the waters. Aud it shall be said in days to come that none is able to go up to the land of Zion upon the waters, but he that is upright in heart (D & C 61:14-16). In the beginning the Lord saw that his creations were good. (Gen. 1:10.) The waters were blessed for the use of man. But in the last days the waters are cursed. It was John the Revelator who saw the judgments of God poured out upon the world in_ the last days.. Ameng-the vials—of—wrath; he second~angel poured his 'vial upon the sea and every living soul diedin the sea, With the release of the contents of the-vial upon the rivers cartied_by the next angel, they became~blood. (Rev. 16: 3-4.) 'as-a-part of the Plan conceived in the heavens before the world was formed, men were to learn from the prophets that judgments or calamities would visit the earth if the laws of God were not observed. Amos announced the truth that the Lord would do nothing but what he would reveal it to his prophets first. (Amos 3:7.) The Lord's object is to save and not to destroy or curse. Bet 2 / / ( Ox? X * Nard xr "2, Ly - Ahis_revelation was, number of, NivesAosY has beer great 928 As pointed out in Proverbs, the Lord's object is to bless, even in chastisement. (Proverbs 3:11-12.) Waters Cursed Attention is called to verse 5 of Section-61 inwhich the brethren in Joseph Smith's party were informed - that many destructions_would occur on 'the /Missouri,. And' Mississippi Rivers/ It is virtually impossible to give Specific dlata regarding, 'the destruction @f these twovfivers and their tribataries" since the time-that wen. That the and the pfopetty Alamage enormous is known. During his Jifetime, the Proph¢ / Joseph Smith mentioned great 'losses /in_ liyes.. And" property damage: (D & C'Gommentary, pp. 362-363. ) __Destructions-Upon-the-Waters———-— Not only were the waters of the Missouri and Mississippi cursed in the last days, but also other waters. (D & C 61:4-5.) It states that the days would come 'when no flesh would be safe upon the waters except the upright in heart. (Ibid., verses 15-16.) One need only think of the great sea disasters caused by striking iceburgs, collisions, burnings, tossing on rocks or other objects during peace times, to bring forcefully to one's mind destructions upon the waters. 'The tremendous property damage and loss of life during the last two World Wars are staggering. (D & C Cgpmentary, page 365.) Ko tm Or A Contrast and the Lord's Assurance In the last days the waters -are cursed. Nevertheless, there would by water. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 be traffic on the waters. The elders for whom Section 61 was given specifically, were to travel by water, after a little while, or by land. Other brethren were, howe to be warmed about the issouri and Mississippi eri) And now tee give unto you a commandment that what I say unto one I say unto all, that ycu shall forewarn your brethren concerning these waters, that they come not in journeying upon them, lest their faith fail and they are caught in snares; I, the Lord, have decreed, and the destroyer rideth upon the face thereof, and I revoke not the decree (D & C 61:18-19). The Lord, however, gave assurances to his saints that they would not perish by the waters, although the day would come that only the upright in heart would c min to 7a Galt dort fe ie) Nevertheless, all flesh is in mine hand, and he that is faithful among you shall not perish by the waters. Wherefore, the days will come that no flesh shall be safe upon the waters. And it shall be said in days to come that none is able to go up to the land of Zion upon the waters, but he that is upright in heart (Ibid., 61:6, 15-16). Emigration to Zion in Earlier Days To come to Zion was the desire of the saints almost as soon as the gospel was preached in Great Britain, the first European mission to be opened. 'This movement of the members to assist in the building of settlements and temples in selected areas of the Western United States was encouraged by providing funds for the converts from the Emigration Fund. LESSON DEPARTMENT The success of this emigration movement under the direction of the General Authorities of the Church is history. 'The pioneer period was ended with the coming of the railroad to Utah in 1869. In this same year the emigrant voyages by sailing vessels ceased, as the steamship took the place of the slower vessel. It would take from five to six weeks by sailing vessel from Europe. )Aninteresting, notable description on one of these e 'packet" ships was given by the ted English author Charles Dickens, who went on board the Mormon emigrant ship to testify against / the saints but came off the ship praising the character of them. Vg tr. Uncommercial" in the foling is Charles Dickens: Behold me on my way to an Emigrant Ship, on a hot morning early in June. I go aboard my Emigrant ship But nobody is in an ill-temper, nobody ls the worse for drink, nobody swears an oath or uses a coarse word, nobody appears depressed, nobody_is_weeping, and down upon the deck im every corner where it is possible to find a few aaa' feet to kneel, crouch, or lie in, people in every unsuitable attitude for writing, are writing letters Now, I have been in emigrant ships before this day in June. And these people are so strikingly different_from all other people in like circumstances whom I have ever seen, that I wonder aloud, "What to be!" The vigi 'lant bright face of the weather- ____ browned captain of the Amazon is at my _ Shoulder, and he says, "What, indeed! The most of these came aboard 'yesterday evening. They came from various parts of England in small parties that had-never seen_one another before, Yet they had not been a cou le of hours on_ board, when they establish ls e "their own "police, would a stranger suppose these emigrants. 929 made their own r s, and set their own wate t. All the oe as ae Before a he "A stranger paula be puzzled to guess the right name of these _people, Mr. Uncommercial," says the captain. "Indeed he would." "If you hadn't known, could you ever have supposed —?" "How could I!' I should have said they were in. Their degree thepick. And flower of England." ""So should I," says the captain. "How many are they?" "Fight hundred in-round-numbers."... EIGHT HUNDRED MORMONS. Me ee ete me I afterwards learned that pe aamenee a Dispatch struck" out into the wide Atlantic, highly extolling the behavior of these Emigrants, and the perfect order and propriety" of all their social 'arrangements. But I went on board their ship to bear testimony against. Them if they deserved it, as T fully believed they would; to my great astonishment they did not deserve it; and my predispositions and tendencies" must not_affect. Me_as.. An honest witness. I went_oyer. The Amazon's side, feeling it impossible to_deny that, so far, some _remarkable_influence.. Had_ produced a remarkable result, which better known in: flvences have often missed _ (DICKENS, ae The Uncommercial Traveller, 200- amy ),. " aw & Wrkc Ys Theswestter's maternal grandparents were among the more than 800 saints described' by Charles Dickens onthe vessel "Amazon" that left London, England, on June 4, 1863. It is traditional in the family that the ship was saved from destruction by heavy storms through the prayers of the ship's passengers. Among the many accounts of this kind, the following one concerning Harrison Burgess, a_missionary_to | England in 1850, indicates fulfilment of the Lord's promise. That they who traveled to Zion in the 930 last days would not perish by the water: We sailed along quite__comfortably until the twenty-sixth of the month (January, 1850) when a_ terrible storm arose. About two o'clock in the afternoon the sea_began to swell and show its power, and the vessel lay first on one side and then on the other. Water came in upon us on both sides of our ship. We lost our sails and_yard-arms, and the chains in the ngging on the ship broke. In the evemng, when evervthing looked most dismal, our president called together his counselors and all joined in prayer to theEord to cause the winds to cease. Scarcely had the brethren ceased_ their supplications when~there 'was a calm, so sudden in fact that the captain and the officers of the ship were greatly surprised, and they came and inquired of us how it was" that-we_felt so happy and gay amid the great danger through which we had just passed. They could not realize that the Lord removed all fear from the hearts of his faithful Saints when they were endeavoring to do their duty (Labors in the Vi mevard, "Twelfth Book of the FaithPromoting Series, pp. 72-73). When the time comes for the saints to gather to Zion, the Lord's, power will be manifest._in. Their behalf. Land Blessed In the beginning the land was cursed (Gen. 3:17), but in the last days it is blessed for the use of the saints. (D & C 61:17.) Theco plete fulfillment_of this. Reserved for the millennium' when the earth will be renewed and receive its condition of terrestrialization and become as a _ beautiful garden, Elder George.-A. Smith made this observation concerning the way the Lord blessed the land of Utah for his saints: \by Moscs. TA /page ye) A dat a ELIEF SOCI er uacabl NE—DECEM 1962 that no mortal upon earth ever would covet it; but, as Colonel Fremont -Teported, that at the mouth of the Bear River, in the early _part of August, his thermometer stood at 29 degrees Fahrenheit, three degrees below the freezing-point, which would kill grain, fruit, or vegetables, our enemies said, "You Mormons may go there and welcome," chuckling to each other over what scemed to them our annilulation.... The newspapers recorded the joy, and gratification felt' at the-wtter end of "Mormonism.".. Notwithstanding, however, the many drawbacks and difficulties encountered in the shape of drought, crickets, grasshoppers, and the cold, sterile climate, the Spirit of the Lord was hovering over the Great Basm_ and_the-climatc became genial and a__soft_ a & Commentary, page 369). Pash, Rough Cry Rhea white Jone Er oo Prophetic Utterance give instructions concerning the / course the saints were to travel en 'route to Zion. Jwate to journey by land and not by is Verses 24 through 29 of Section In the main they these waters, the Missouri and Mississippi Rivers. By the spirit of ' revelation they were to be led as the \ children of Israel were led anciently eae vee ue * ys Section 61 Concluled The Lord counseled his servants in their traveling to Cincinnati, Ohio, and beginning in Cincinnati, to be diligent in testimony. (See D & C 61:30-35.) In concluding the revelation, encouragement is given to these brethren by reminding them that they are little chilthe Lord is with them. He has not, Finally, there comes this admonia dren who should be cheerful, for 4%' forsaken them, (Ibid., verses oe \ tion, "ae to all saints. We-rame to this' lad [Utah] because He Gird up your loins and be watchful it wads so desert, deso e and God-forsaken oe and be sober, looking forth for the com- ~—"Gird up your loins... LESSON DEPARTMENT ing of the Son of Man, for he cometh in an hour you think not. Pray always that you enter not into temptation, that you may abide the day of his coming, whether in life or in death. Even so, Amen (Ibid., verses 38-39). " is a common statement among Latterday Saints. It means "Be Prepared." For what? The coming of the Lord. What should be one means of preparation? Praying that one will 931 have the strength and courage to resist temptation. If so, the saints will surely abide the day of Jesus' coming, whether in death or in life. Questions for Discussion 1. What scriptural basis is there for the fact that the waters are cursed in the last days? Z. How may the land be blessed in the last days? 3. How does the scripture "Gird up your loins" apply to you? And I, the Lord, Remember Them No More" (D & C 58:42). Christine H. Robinson For First Week, March 1963 Objective: To show how greatly we are blessed through the divine principle of repentance.. = NE of the most gracious and generous promises that comes to us from our Father in heaven is the divine blessing of repentance coupled with forgiveness. It is a na | wonderfully encouraging and stimulating conviction to know that if we sincerely and genuinely repent of our faults, errors, and sins they will be forgiven by the great and final Judge, our Father in heaven, and "shall be as white as snow" (Isa. 1:18). Truly, this is a marvelous blessing which comes to us from the goodness of God. As the apostle Paul said, "the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance" (Romans 2:4). If it were not for this "goodness," all of us would remain forever in our sins and we would be unable to move forward toward more useful, purposeful, and effective lives. What is the meaning of true repentance? How does it lay the foundation for progress and _ for # Lb wri = <i Lewk, (alle Aes, Ff =, ~~ D CLA!? € f > i) Ligh hr (EK Lee) we | Cmca Win —— \ VISITING TEACHER MESSAGES Truths to Live By From the Doctrine and Covenants Message 46 — "He Who Has Repented of His Sins, the Same Is Forgiven, 932 more satisfying and useful lives? The process of repentance has been said to consist of the application of the four "R's." These are, recognition, remorse, resolve, and restitution. Certainly, the first step in true repentance consists in a genuine recognition of our faults. After recognizing our mistakes, the next step follows naturally, we must be sorry and regret them. Then comes a genuine desire and resolve to eliminate them and, finally, to make full and complete restitution. President Joseph F. Smith expressed _ this thought beautifully when he said:... True repentance is not only sorrow for sins, and humble penitence and contrition before God, but it involves the necessity of turning away from them, a discontinuance of all evil practices and deeds, a thorough reformation of life, a vital change from evil to good, from vice to virtue, from darkness to light. Not only so, but to make restitution, so far as is possible, for all the wrongs we have done, to pay our debts, and restore to God and man their nghts — that which is due to them from us. 'This is true repentance, and the exercise of the will and all the powers of body and mind is demanded, to complete this glorious work of repentance; then God will accept it (Journal of Discourses. Vol. 19, page 190). According to an ancient account, a man in a far eastern country was caught stealing. As a part of his punishment a large "S" was branded on his forehead. Applying the great gift of repentance, this man overcame his sin and lived a life of virtue and service in his community. Some years later a stranger asked one of his friends the meaning of the "S" that had been burned into this man's forehead. The friend replied, "I don't really RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 know, but judging by his life, I'm sure it must stand for 'Saint.' " Every day we live there is room for' repentance. Every one of us needs constantly to be cleansed by this purifying principle, for we read, "... There is not a just man upon earth, that doeth good, and sinneth not" (Eccl. 7:20). The apostle John re-emphasized this truth when he said, "If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us" (1 John 1:8). Probably one of the greatest difficulties we encounter in repenting lies in the rationalization of our socalled "little sins." Most of us have consciences that are sufficiently sharp to bring us remorse when we | make big mistakes. Our "little" sins, however, such as jealousy, malice, gossip, and similar weaknesses are easy to rationalize, cover up, and forget. If we truly are going to repent, we should follow the admonition of the ancient apostles when they said to lay aside "all malice, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and envies, and all evil speakings" (J Peter 2:1) and "Put on therefore kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, longsuffering; forbearing one another, and forgiving one another" (Col. 3:12-13). Repentance has a purifying power because associated with it and as a fundamental part of it, is the glorious principle of forgiveness. As the Lord has promised in The Doctrine and Covenants, "he who has repented of his sins, the same is forgiven, and I, the Lord, remember them no more" (D & C 58:42). Milton has said that forgiveness and repentance are "the golden keys that open the palace of eternity." WORK MEETING The Latter-day Saint Home (A Course Expected to Be Used by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) Discussion 6 — The Latter-day Saint Home Is Clean (Part II) Dr. Virginia F', Cutler For Second Meeting, March 1963 Objective: the soul. Semserenee —_— OME of the best home managers today say that they have completely given up the annual and semi-annual housecleaning and that they are now organizing their time so that they get the cleaning done as they go along, and there is never the great disruption of the household by having the entire place torn apart all at one time. Some extra jobs are worked into each week's schedule, such as washing down the bathroom walls, cleaning out the bookcases, straightening the dresser drawers, or washing some of the woodwork. In this way, the home is always in good condition, and there is no serious disruption of family activity. Two pieces of equipment that are a boon to the modern homemaker in keeping her home and its occupants clean are a vacuum cleaner and a washing machine. The vacuum picks up dirt, does the dusting, and gets the dirt out of the house instead of scattering it around, and the washing machine saves much time and energy in keeping clothes and household linens clean. Check the consumer reports in your library before making purchases of these two pieces of equipment and make sure that what you buy is best suited for your purposes. 'Then if you want the investment to pay off, study the instruction manuals and _ follow them exactly. Give tender, loving care to these two good servants, and they will give many years of service. Today is our day for three tell shows. Each person assigned to a show may use material from what follows and add anything else that her reading and experience dictate. Each must limit her show to five minutes. Tell Show — How to Clean Floors Since ninety-three per cent of the dirt in your home collects on the floor, regular daily, weekly, and monthly care is important to keep your home in good condition. 933 934 Daily: Sweep linoleum and _ tile carefully. Wipe up spots. Use roller-broom on rugs and carpets or, if there is much traffic, use vacuum cleaner. Clean spots. Weekly oz when necessary: Damp mop linoleum or tile using light suds or clear water. Vacuum rugs and carpets. Monthly or oftener: Use self-polishing wax on linoleum and tile after damp mop. Annually: Use absorbent rug cleaning powder on rugs, and vacuum, or hire a professional rug cleaner. 'Tips on using vacuum: count to six slowly as you push vacuum slowly forward and count to six slowly as you bring vacuum back. 'The machine will do the best work if given time to draw in dirt. Clean vacuum brushes after each use. Tell Show — How to Clean Upholstered Furniture Daily: Remove spots. Sugar spots can be removed with clear water. Grease spots can be removed with a commercial cleaner. (Test anything you do on an inconspicuous place before doing complete job.) In cleaning spots, work from outside of spot toward center. Weekly: Use vacuum upholstery attachment or brush and dust thoroughly. If cushions are made of down, do not vacuum, but fluff up and air in the sun. Turn reversible cushions. Annually: Dry scrub. Put % cup of pure white soap flakes and I tablespoon of ammonia into 2 cups of boiling water and let cool. Then beat vigorously with rotary egg beater until the bowl is filled with suds. With a soft brush, use some suds and work over an eight-inch square of fabric. With a soft cloth wrung lightly out of clean warm water, wipe off suds and if the fabric has a pile, smooth fabric in the direction of the pile. Continue until all the fabric has been cleaned. 'Try to prevent the fabric from absorbing much moisture. Dry for twenty-four hours before using. 'There are good commercial cleaners on the market, if you do not wish to make your own. Tell Show — How to Clean Metals Metals are the magic elements that give sparkle to a home. If they are not clean and bright, they should be hidden from sight, for RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 there isn't anything which so quickly gives the status of the managerial ability of a homemaker as the condition of her metals. Daily: Wash pots and pans in sudsy water and keep aluminum bright by using a_ stainless steel wool soap pad. Clean copper with hot vinegar and salt. Wipe enamel surfaces of range and refrigerator; wipe and shine chromium. Weekly: Remove tarnish from tips of silver forks and spoons by dipping them into an old aluminum pan which contains 2 cups of boiling water, % teaspoon salt, and % teaspoon soda. Commercial polish takes more time, but it is recommended for more thorough all-over polishing. Use a_ treated silver polishing cloth to shine ornamental pieces. Polish brass by using commercial polish; let dry, rub with a soft cloth, and finish with a chamois. Lacquered brass needs only a dusting and occasional washing. Clean all parts of your range. Ammonia in the water helps. Put aluminum foil under electric burners to catch the drip and replace as needed.! Ways to Make Cleaning Easy 1. Get your daily exercise as you make the best use of your body. Use your leg muscles instead of back muscles when bending and when lifting objects. Imagine that you have a third leg to sit on as you bend your knees; keep your back straight. 2. Save energy for time with your family. It takes six times as much energy to go upstairs as it takes to. Walk the same distance on the level; plan your trips up and down; have duplicate cleaning materials where needed. It takes three times as much energy to stand as to sit; try ironing sitting down and do as many jobs as possible while seated. 3. Use the best tools and cleaning agents for the job. Try long handled mops and brushes for floors, walls, and bathtubs; cellulose spong- | LESSON DEPARTMENT es for wipe-up jobs; carts on wheels for moving equipment and supplies; vacuum attachments for brushing walls and dusting furniture and draperies; commercial products, such as disposable dusting paper, self-polishing wax, and cleaning agents that require no rinsing. 4. Plan your cleaning jobs and arrange a work schedule. Spread out the hardest jobs to avoid peaks of overwork. 5. Prevent dirt from collecting. Keep walks and porches clean. Have storage space near entrance for boots and rubbers. Close off rooms not in use. 935 6. Learn something new every day about your profession as a homemaker, and be ready to change your methods if you find a better way. New acquisitions that enhance and enlarge your understanding of the world and its peoples will have deeper meaning, if you know how to care for them and if you make them a meaningful part of your family life. Questions for Discussion 1. Give some pointers about cleaning windows, mirrors, and glass dishes and stem ware. 2. Relate some historical event in connection with family china, silver, or furnishings. LITERATURE e America's Literature The New Birth of Freedom Lesson 38 — Herman Melville (1819-1891) Elder Briant S. Jacobs (Textbook: America's Literature by James D. Hart and Clarence Gohdes Dryden Press, New York, pp. 512-537) For Third Meeting, March 1963 Objective: To become acquainted with Melville as man and as American that we mav better understand the close relationship between his life and his writings. ERMAN Melville, born in 1819 in New York City, was reared there and in Albany, New York. His mother was Maria Gansevoort — New York City Dutch, saturated with centuries of tradition, regal and stern in money and pride. She was proud of her patriot ancestors. Her parents were conscientious members of the Dutch Reformed Church. She inherited their piety and was strict in her religious observances all her life. 'This religious orthodoxy left an impres- 936 sion upon young Herman though he later turned away from it. Herman worshipped his father, Allan Melville, who loved travel and was a merchant in elegant imports and fineries. During a business depression he became bankrupt before Herman was in his teens. Bravely he tried to provide for his family but he died from overwork and worry in 1832 leaving his responsibilities to his widow and eight children. 'The shock of being the beholden poor relatives in complete contrast to their former security stunned young Herman who was forced to leave school for office jobs, boarding about as a_ rural schoolteacher and finally, at eighteen, shipping as a cabin boy aboard a merchant vessel bound for Liverpool in 1837. This incident, sometimes thought of as an escape from hardship, was more romantic than real. Actually his mood was understood, and _ his departure planned by his widowed mother and his envious but helpful brothers who went down to New York to make the necessary arrangements. The cowardice and inhumanity of the wealthy cabin passengers aboard the vessel outraged his sense of fairness and human brothethood. On his arrival in Liverpool, still resentful and confused at the disturbing change in his fortunes, he attempted to guide himself through the city by the map his father had used thirty years earlier, but learned after wandering through "the black spot on the river Mersey" with its abject poverty and degraded misery that "the thing that had guided the father could not guide the son." 'Thus young MelRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 HERMAN MELVILLE From a Painting by Goff Dowding Reproduced by Permission of Wheelwright Lithographing Company ville, in his untried innocence, fell from the security of family pride into a violent awareness of the evils of his time which became an even stronger reality, one of the great themes of American literature. Following his return home he taught school at intervals in New York. This he disliked; it did not prove congenial with the things he really wanted to do. Pioneer of the Exotic Mystic Pacific The spirit of westerning, which has been the germinal force of our American greatness and character, applied to western waters as well as to western lands. The Sandwich (now the Hawaiian) Islands. Were discovered by Captain Cook in 1778 during the American Revolu- LESSON DEPARTMENT ion; in 1788 the first British settlement, a penal colony, was established where Sydney, Australia, now stands. Some sixty years later Melville discovered the vast Pacific for literature when, on January 3, 1841, he shipped at New Bedford, Massachusetts, aboard the whaling ship Acushnet for the South Seas. He was twenty-three, one of 18,000 Americans seeking whales. On 735 American vessels out of goo whalers then afloat on the oceans of the world. Whaling was one of the vigorous young Nation's major industries, adventurous, lonely, rough, dangerous, but immensely profitable to the crews and ship-owners whose vessels returned, every barrel filled with precious spermaceti oil from which the best candles were made. But crew mortality was high. Composed of "the bottom-dogs of all nations and races, one-half were green hands such as Melville, and more than two-thirds deserted every voyage." If the vast west, stretching endlessly to the Pacific was huge, the Pacific which bordered these unspoiled, empty, wealthy lands was ten times more so. Optimism, expansion, desire for space, free lands and oceans, dominated young Melville as they did his countrymen. The pioneering credo known as Manifest Destiny surged strong in the impassioned young writer: God has predestinated, mankind expects, great things from our race; and _ great things we feel in our souls. The rest of the nations must soon be in our rear. We are the pioneers of the world; the advance-guard, sent on through the wilderness of untried things, to break a new path in the New World that is ours. In our youth is our strength; in our inexperience, our wisdom. At a period when 937 other nations have but lisped, our deep voice is heard afar.... And let us always remember that with ourselves, almost for the first time in the history of earth, national selfishness is unbounded _philanthropy; for we cannot do a good to America but we give alms to the world. The Acushnet was better than most ships, but when its luck changed for the worse Melville began to find conditions intolerable. Accordingly, he and one of his shipmates, "Toby" Green, deserted in a harbor of the Marquesas Islands on July 9, 1842. 'They sought refuge among the natives who were reputed to be ferocious cannibals. Although they held Herman a prisoner after "Toby" escaped, they were friendly and free from the economic worries of civilization. On August 9, an Australian whaler rescued him. Conditions on the new ship turned out to be even worse than on the Acushnet. When it put in at the harbor of 'Tahiti, Melville again escaped to a neighboring island. After two weeks' wandering about the island, he was picked up by a Nantucket whaler and taken to the Hawaiian Islands, May 2, 1843. Weary and homesick, he enlisted in the United States Navy for a voyage home on the frigate, United States. 'The voyage lasted for fourteen months. While it gave him a strong distaste for the floggings so often used in maintaining naval discipline, the ship provided him with a number of interesting companions with whom he corresponded and whom he never forgot. The crew arrived in Boston and was discharged on October 14, 1844. Early Novels In retrospect, Melville dated the beginning of his life from 1844, his 938 twenty-fifth year, when his seven years of intermittent sea-voyaging ended. Early in 1846 Typee, his first novel telling of his four-month stay among the friendly, happy cannibals of the Marquesas Islands in the South Pacific, made him famous over night. This was followed in 1847 by Omoo. The simple charms of Polynesian life detailed in Typee and Omoo created for Melville a wide audience. But Melville could not escape from seeing that the white man's entry into the great oceania brought to the hitherto peaceful islanders ruthless and violent pillaging, smallpox and _ social diseases, conflicts and frustrations within the natives' social, cultural, and religious lives, and he did not permit his readers to escape seeing these results. Mardi, published in March 1849, is also based on his South Pacific experiences but in it Melville changes his style to allegory and satire. Redburn, based on his voyage to Liverpool and published in September 1849, opposes the evils of the Liverpool slums and expresses concern over the horrible conditions in the immigrant's black hole below deck compared with the selfish comforts of the cabin passengers. In White Jacket, published in 1850, he voices his hatred of military medicine and surgical practices, constant severe floggings, and tyrannical military authoritarianism which he witnessed as a common seaman while aboard the United States. As long as such abuses were allowed to exist Melville felt our Declaration of Independence with its guarantees of "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness' was a mockery. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 These early novels brought him popularity, fame, and money, but no lasting self-esteem. In his own scornful phrase he feared being remembered only as "The author of Typee and Piddledee'; instead, he yearned to write so "true" a novel that it would not make money. Moby-Dick, published in 1851, fulfilled that dream — perhaps all too abundantly. Other novels written and published after Moby-Dick are: Pierre (1852), a study of good and evil; Israel Potter (1855; Piazza Tales (1856), which include "Benito Cereno,' perhaps Melville's best short story; The Confidence Man (1857); Billy Budd (1924), a seafaring novel published after Melville's death and considered second to his masterpiece Moby-Dick. The Domesticated Author In 1844 Melville's distinguished family was delighted to have the bronzed young sailor safely home, and even more delighted with the exciting tales which he reeled off to them with animation and power. But after only two years at home, with the successes of Typee and Omoo now behind him, he had to borrow money to rent a large house in New York City in preparation for his marriage, August 4, 1847, to Elizabeth Shaw, daughter of Chief Justice Lemuel Shaw of Boston, perhaps the closest friend Herman Melville had ever had. But from the beginning of his married life Melville's family circle included his mother, his four unmarried sisters, and his brother and his bride, all for whom Melville felt full love and responsibility. Realizing how large his "family" was, it is not LESSON DEPARTMENT surprising to find Herman applying for a government position. Soon his first of four children was born. He went to England to insure best possible publishing arrangements for his books, then removed his family to "Arrowhead," a large farm just outside Pittsfield, Massachusetts, not far from Hawthorne, who became his confidant and _ literary stimulant. It was here that he wrote Moby-Dick and lived for thirteen years. Following the sarcastic and hostile reception accorded Moby-Dick, Melville's health beban to fail. In 1857 he sailed for the Holy Land and Europe, returning five months later restored in health and spirits. Unsuccessful in his attempts to gain consulships, Melville tried lecturing, but by 1860 he felt he was a failure in this as in all else.. In 1863 he moved once more to New York City where he worked as a customs inspector for almost twenty years, and where he lived in retirement until his death in 1891. Melville's Poetry During the last thirty-five years of his life Melville wrote little except poetry. His earliest printed poetry as we know it appeared in his third novel Mardi. Although we have no evidence of earlier poetic writing, we may _ reasonably assume that he had written verses before the ones printed in Mardi. Melville's wife wrote her mother in 1859: "Herman has taken to writing poetry. You need not tell anyone, for you know how such things get around.' Whatever meaning she intended to convey by this remark, it is fact that Mrs. Melville assumed the responsibility of 989 seeing through the press the volume he had prepared. Melville wished to have his poems published but feared the reaction of his readers. "The publication of a first volume though a matter of no moment to the world... Is still of some concern to the author," he wrote. Indeed, it was of such sensitive concern to Melville that he evaded the task of finding a publisher by taking passage for San Francisco on his brother's ship, the Meteor. Mrs. Melville, however, sought the help and opinion of Evart Duyckinck, the well-known editor of the Literaty World. His efforts were unsuccessful in securing a publisher, although he spoke favorably of the poems. 'This caused Mrs. Melville to write Mr. Duyckinck that she did not consider rejection by the publishers a true test of the merits of the writing. "I think infinitely more of your opinion of it, and feel some confidence in its worth, since it has been such a profound secret between Herman and myself for so long that I rejoice to have my own prejudice in its favor confirmed by someone in whose appreciation we can feel confidence." 'The loyalty and faith expressed in this letter are but one evidence of the devotion and encouragement which Elizabeth Shaw Melville gave to her husband during their lifetime together. The poems never appeared as planned. If he was sadly disappointed by the failure of his book to find a publisher, he tried to conceal it in the half jocular way in which he wrote his brother 'Tom, May 25, 1862, that a trunkmaker had taken the whole lot of it off his hands at ten cents a pound. He suggested if Tom were not "such a 940 devil of a ways off" he would send him a trunk lined with the stanzas as a presentation copy. He frequently referred to his poems in this depreciatory manner. When the Civil War began in 1861, Melville volunteered his services but he was rejected, even while his cousins of similar age were accepted and advanced in their military careers. However, the war moved him to affirmative action such as he had not known since Moby-Dick. In 1866 he published Battle Pieces, a collection of his poems prefaced by his fervent plea for a reconstruction policy of "doing as we would be done by," and of allowing no consideration to "tempt us to pervert the national victory into oppression for the vanquished." The pity and terror and irony of war he caught in such memorable examples as are found in our text, "The Portent" (page 536), "Misgivings" (page 536), "Shiloh" (page 537), and "The House-Top" (page 537). Clarel, A Poem and Pilgrimage in the Holy Land, was written shortly after he took up his duties as Customs Inspector for the Port of New York (1865). It was inspired by his own trip to the Holy Land and was written under extreme difficulties, with nerve-shattering labor. Only with the selfless devotion of Elizabeth to sustain his spirits was he able to give it shape. It remained unpublished until 1876 when, through the generosity of his Uncle Peter Gansevoort, it was given to the public. It was completely ignored by his readers. <A_ long, two-volume poem, it hopelessly bewilders the casual reader. It begins as a story of Clarel, a theological RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 student, who becomes engaged to a young Jewess, Ruth. Following her father's death, he is forbidden by Jewish custom to see her so he leaves on a pilgrimage to the Dead Sea and Bethlehem. From here the story fades away into a description of places and a record of conversations on science, faith, and problems of the modern age. When the story finally reappears with the sudden discovery of Ruth's death, the emotion it might have aroused in us is lost for we have forgotten her. And yet, students of Melville seem to ponder over this work longer than any other, for it is the key to his thought in his later years. Here "he has it out with himself," coming at last to a fixed place where "he can stand for the rest of his days." We are rewarded, however, when we come to the Epilogue which concludes on a triumphant note: Then keep thy heart, though yet but illresigned — Clarel, thy heart, the issues there but mind; That like the crocus budding through the snow — That like a swimmer rising from the deep — That like a burning secret which doth go Even from the bosom that would hoard and keep; Emerge thou mayst from the last whelm- | ing sea, And prove that death but routs life into victory. In the last six years of his life Melville produced two other volumes of poetry, John Marr and Other Sailors (1888) and Timoleon (1891). Until he found himself anew in Billy Budd, written during the three years immediately preceding his LESSON DEPARTMENT death, Melville found his greatest creative release in poetry. Often uneven in quality, patched, and rough, nevertheless some of his works, such as "Art," and "Maldive Shark" achieve their own power to a degree not unworthy of Melville. ART In placid hours well-pleased we dream Of many a brave unbodied scheme. But form to lend, pulsed life create, What unlike things must meet and mate; A flame to melt a wind to freeze; Sad patience — joyous energies; Humility — yet pride and scorn; Instinct and study; love and hate; Audacity — reverence. These must mate And fuse with Jacob's mystic heart, To wrestle with the angel — Art. Like his friend Hawthorne, Melville knew full well the duality of life. To them the great challenge lay in condensing and unifying seeming opposites into one blending truth. While Melville did not always succeed in his poetic endeavors, the art which is the unexplicable secret of his prose is at once evident. It is necessary that we know Melville, the man, completely alive in the searing cross-currents of his time, that we might have background for a reading of Moby-Dick, which among other major forces is one of the greatest treatments of mortal pride and evil ever written. 941 A simple, subtle statement of the relation of obvious brute evil to concealed, intellectual evil is found in THE MALDIVE SHARK About the shark, phlegmatical one, Pale sot of the Maldive sea, The sleek little pilot-fish, azure and slim, How alert in attendance be. From his saw-pit of mouth, from _ his charnel of maw They have nothing of harm to dread, But liquidly glide on his ghastly flank Or before his Gorgonian head; Or lurk in the port of serrated teeth In white triple tiers of glittering gates, And there find a heaven when peril's abroad, An asylum in jaws of the Fates. They are friends; and friendly they guide him to prey, Yet never partake of the treat — Eyes and brains to the dotard lethargic and dull, Pale ravener of horrible meat. Thoughts for Discussion 1. Enumerate some of the experiences of Melville's early life which influenced his writings. 2. In the poem excerpts included in this lesson do you think clarity of expression was the most important characteristic? 3. What did Elizabeth Melville contribute to Melville's success as a writer? Note: Clarel is a two-volume narrative poem. Class leaders are not expected to read this poem in order to present the lesson. SOCIAL SCIENCE Divine Law and Church Government The Foundation of Church Government Lesson 5 — Application of the Law in the Dispensations of Man Elder Ariel S. Ballif For Fourth Meeting, March 1963 Objective: To help realize that divine law has operated from the beginning of time. Hear, O ye heavens, and give ear, O earth, and rejoice ye inhabitants thereof, for the Lord is God, and beside him there is no Savior. Great is his wisdom, marvelous are his ways, and the extent of his doings none can find out. His purposes fail not, neither are there any who can stay his hand. From eternity to eternity he is the same, and his years never fail (D & C 76:1-4). The works, and the designs, and the purposes of God cannot be frustrated, neither can they come to naught (D & C 3:1). Purpose in the Divine Law [N the Pearl of Great Price (Moses 1) we are informed that Moses, speaking to the Lord, said, "Be merciful unto thy servant, O God, and tell me concerning this earth, and the inhabitants thereof, and also the heavens..." (verse 36). The Lord explained to Moses that the heavens and earths could not be numbered. As one passes away another comes. 'Thus there is no end to his works or his word. Then in a simple statement, the Lord gives meaning and understanding to his creation — "For behold, this is my work and my glory — to bring to pass the immortality and eternal life of man" (verse 39). From the discussions in previous lessons, we are aware that through divine law God has established a plan of life and salvation, the observance of which makes possible the accomplishment of his purpose. From the quotations at the begin- 942 ning of this lesson, we are informed of God's great wisdom, that his purposes fail not, and that no one can stay his hand. We are further impressed with his eternal nature and that there is no end to eternity. From this we can conclude that the purpose and plan of God in its essential points has been revealed to man from Adam to the present day. It is also evident that the divine laws directing man's activities were equally binding on the people of each period of time. The Dispensations These periods of time are often referred to as dispensations, meaning a period of time during which God has made himself known to man, establishing his Priesthood upon the earth and revealing the essential elements of the plan of life and salvation, providing for the function and operation of his Church through organization. Elder Orson F. Whitney writes that Mormonism LESSON DEPARTMENT. Stands for the Gospel itself in all the dispensations, as those periods are termed during which God, from the beginning, has spoken to man and revealed' from heaven these saving principles and powers (Saturday Night Thoughts, page 96). The dispensations are usually referred to under the name of the distinguished prophet and leader of the period. Specifically they refer to the dispensations of Adam, Enoch, Noah, Abraham, Moses, Jesus Christ, and the dispensation of the fulness of times. What they are called is not so important as the fact that during each dispensation the divine law governing the destiny of man was upon the earth. That men held the Priesthood and were properly commissioned to organize The Church of Jesus Christ for the enlightenment and welfare of the human family was equally important. What Adam Taught "And thus the gospel began to be preached, from the beginning, being declared by holy angels sent forth from the presence of God, and by his own voice, and by the gift of the Holy Ghost" (Moses 5:58). The gospel includes a clear understanding of man's relationship to God, the rules governing individual development, and man's relationship to his fellow men. In other words, it is the plan of life and salvation. Adam made all things known unto his children. Thus the descendants of Adam were made aware of the teachings essential to their exaltation. The teachings Adam received may be summarized as follows: 1. That God the Eternal Father lives. Adam walked and talked with him. The Priesthood, the power to 943 act in his name, was bestowed upon Adam. "And thus all things were confirmed upon Adam, by an holy ordinance (Moses 5:59). 2. That Jesus Christ is the Son of God and that his mission is to redeem the world. Adam was given the law of sacrifice, '"'a similitude of the sacrifice of the Only Begotten of the Father, which is full of grace and truth" (Moses 5:7). Christ's action provided for the redemption of man from the fall. "And the Lord God called upon men by the Holy Ghost everywhere and commanded them that they should repent" (Moses 5:14). Eternal life is promised to those who can hear (understand) the word of the Lord and act in the light of truth. Baptism is the portal to the joy of exaltation and the presence of the Eternal Father. 3. That the Holy Ghost, a personage of spirit, is a member of the Godhead and the special witness of the Father and the Son to mankind. The Holy Ghost is a constant source of light and truth for human progress. 4. That revelation is a continual flow of the divine will to enlighten mankind. 5. An acceptance of the first and great commandment, love of God. The second is like unto it, love thy neighbor as thyself. "On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." In an effort to give man the proper concept of love and to assure its continuance, the celestial pattern of family life was given to Adam. " It is not good that the man should be alone" (Genesis 2:18). In the teachings of love of fellow men, their general welfare was emphasized and specifically the fact that we are our broth- 944 ers keeper. Essential to the operation of love is the personal discipline of bridling desires and controlling appetites. Divine Law and Human Response Adam taught the essentials for the exaltation of his children. At the same time they were subject to the influence of evil. They had the capacity to make judgments and decisions in the exercise of their right of choice. The first apostasy occurred within Adam's time. Not all of Adam's children loved darkness more than light,. But there were those among them who were envious, selfish, and greedy. 'They covenanted with Satan and swore secret oaths among themselves to gain power over their fellow men. This is all symbolized in the actions of Cain which brought death, sin, and misery to those who disregarded the divine law. There were many who followed after him. Fnoch received direct revelation to assist him in calling the people to repentance. The basic teachings were the same as Adam taught, with great emphasis upon the importance of accepting the mission of Jesus Christ and being baptized in his name for the remission of sins. 'The people had become carnal, sensual, and devilish following the counsel of Satan. 'These conditions refer to the weakness of the flesh. In this condition, men are ruled by the gratification of their desires and appetites. War, a common expression of Satan's influence in the world and basically caused by greed and selfishness, was rampant in the land. Enoch's plea was to return to proper human relations with love of God the directing force in the people's lives. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 He pointed out that "naught but peace, justice, and truth is the habitation of" the throne of God (Moses 7:31). Many of Enoch's people, particularly those living in the city of Zion, believed in his teachings. "And the Lord called his people Zion, because they were of one heart and one mind, and dwelt in righteousness; and there was no poor among them (Moses 7:18). "And Enoch and all his people walked with God, and he dwelt in the midst of Zion; and it came to pass that Zion was not, for God received it up into his own _ bosom ' (Moses 7:69). But the balance of mankind was left in their wickedness. When Noah came to his leadership, the spiritual condition of men and their behavior patterns had fallen very low. "... Noah prophesied, and taught the things of God, even as it was in the beginning" (Moses 8:16). Noah was ordained after the order of the Lord and cried repentance unto the people, but they were lifted up in their own pride. In fact they had so completely forsaken the way of the Lord that "God said unto Noah: The end of all flesh is come before me, for the earth is filled with violence, and behold I will destroy all flesh from off the earth" (Moses 8:30). Noah had the unique position of giving mankind a new start. He, with his sons and their families, was given the responsibility of peopling the earth and of establishing the basic teachings given to Adam as the directing force in human association and progress. But the descendants of Noah lost themselves in the quest for the material riches of the world. 'They spent themselves -in LESSON DEPARTMENT building cities, in accumulating riches, and defending their gain. Finally they attempted to defy God by building Babel and he dispersed them over the face of the earth. (See Genesis 9, 10, 11.) The dispensation of Abraham ls a record of the rise of the house of Israel. Abraham, being dissatisfied with his social environment, decided to find another place of residence. He received the Priesthood and the knowledge of the fathers, and called his own generation to repentance. But thev were steeped in the idolatry of the Pharaohs of Egypt and would not listen. (See Abraham 1:5.) Following the inspiration of heaven, Abraham took his family "out of the world" (the land of the Chaldeans) into the promised land. Here he established his people (who were later given the name of Israel from his grandson Jacob), whose heritage included the direct biological and Priesthood lineage from Adam and the social environment created by the application of divine law to daily living, the major theme of which is love. Famine eventually drove the house of Israel into Egypt where the Lord had prepared for their preservation through his servant Joseph. Israel prospered and grew strong in Egypt. After Joseph's death, there came leaders who "knew not Joseph" and Israel was put in bondage. They became slaves to the Egyptians in work and in thought. In considering the dispensation of Moses, we must be aware of the fact that the people of the world who did not follow the divine law nor recognize the Priesthood as_ the authority to act in the name of God now constituted the mass of manI I | | | | | | | | | | | I | l _ i FORTH IN THY NAME, O LORD, | GO—Madsen.20 _.. GOSPEL GIVES UNBOUNDED STRENGTH—Schreiner.30 a HOW LOVELY ARE THY DWELLINGS—Liddle.25 is JESU, JOY OF MAN'S DESIRING—Bach __.25 a LET NOT YOUR SONG END—Cain _ oo. Cece ecco.25 ee LET THE MOUNTAINS SHOUT FOR JOY—Stephens.20 _ LORD, GOD OF OUR FATHERS—Armbruster _.25 _ LORD IS MY LIGHT—Allitsen...20 a LORD WE DEDICATE THIS = MY HEART EVER FAITHFUL— woBach nooo eececceececeeeeee -25 >. STILL, STILL WITH THEE— Madsen _ -- 22. Oeee eee cneeeee.22 -_ VOICE IN THE WILDERNESS— Scott one cece eceec ec ccc eee ee eee es.25 SACRED THREE PART CHORUSES FOR LADIES VOICES HOUSE TO THEE—Madsen.20 Music Sent on Approval Use this advertisement as your order blank DAYNES MUSIC COMPANY 15 E. Ist South Salt Lake City 11, Utah Please send the music indicated above. (1 On Approval ([] Charge [] Money Enclosed Name I Daynes Mace TT =a Ist South /salt Lake City 11, Utah (0006 Yar & S62 2-962 Ouv I 946 Rose Parade Tour Leaves December 27 for eight days Also via San Francisco and Reno ten days Hawaiian Tours February, June, and November, 1963 Orient Tour leaves March to April Northwestern Tour in June Alaskan Tour in July Hill Cumorah Tour July-August Europe in August Margaret Lund Tours 3021 South 23rd East P. O. Box 2065 Salt Lake City, Utah SPECIAL CHRISTMAS | PRICE. | only \ " i $ T 9.95 3. A a postpaid | F IT'S SO EASY SO ECONOMICAL TO MAKE BREAD WITH THE NEW DOUBLE H BREADMASTER Here's the perfect gift for the homemaker! Just put in the ingredients, turn the crank... And in five short minutes the dough is kneaded. So economical too! 100 pounds of flour makes 140 loaves of delicious, healthful, homemade bread! Big 12-qt. Size. Lifetime aluminum. For Christmas delivery... Send $19.95 check or money order to address below. Ask for PERMAPAK's Free catalog of storage foods and survival goods. Small Flour & Cereal Grinder Deluxe Flour & Cereal Grinder $6.95 value— $14.50 value— now $4.95 now $12.50 Write for Grinder shipping information. PERMAPAK PIONEERS IN PREPAREDNESS PRODUCTS 40 E. Robert Ave., Salt Lake City 15, Utah. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 kind. 'The house of Israel was comparatively small, but through this small but choice group the Savior' of mankind, the Son of the living God was to come. Moses and the Wilderness As a Training Ground Moses, divinely chosen and miraculously preserved for the leadership of Israel, was taken out of Egypt and trained under the direction of the Lord for the task of returning Istael to the promised land. Moses received the Priesthood from Jethro and a special commission from God himself. He led Israel from Egypt to the wilderness and for forty years trained them in the divine law. The influence of the Pharaohs was strong upon the children of Israel. The law of an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth was the type of direction they understood. The Ten Commandments were to be understood in terms of daily behavior. Moses taught with patience and diligence, praying for their response in righteousness. 'The golden calf, an idol, was made while Moses talked with God. Instructions written by the finger of God on stone tablets were broken to bits when Moses saw the children of Israel worshiping the idol. 'They were not ready for the new instructions. But Moses pleaded for his people and continued to teach the law pertaining to every human relationship, the responsibility for conduct and proper recognition for the Priesthood. The people were slow to respond. Finally, God took Moses and the higher or Melchizedek Priesthood out of their midst. 'The Aaronic Priesthood was left for their official direction until the coming of Christ. LESSON DEPARTMENT Fulfilling the Law The dispensation of Christ is referred to as the meridian of time. All the prophets from Adam on taught the mission of Jesus Christ and that he would be crucified for the sins of the world. They pointed out that faith in his atoning sacrifice is the key to the blessing of salvation and exaltation. That Jesus, the Son of God, would be born into the world was the testimony of every true prophet. He alone could overcome death and make certain the resurrection. He fulfilled the law, justified the prophets, and testified to the reality of God, the Eternal Father. His teachings graphically express the meaning of the divine law revealed to Adam. Jesus was the personification of the first great commandment, love of God, and of the second, love of fellow men. The importance of human behavior in relation to exaltation is expressed in the Beatitudes presented in the Sermon on the Mount. Christ's life is an example of the effectiveness of divine law in producing perfection in human behavior. In spite of the heralding of angels at his birth; the identification of Jesus as the Son of God as revealed by the Father at the time of Christ's baptism; his ministry of miracles; the organization and functioning of his Church upon the earth; and his resurrection, his chosen people did not accept him. Acceptance required faith in the fact of his divine origin. 'They could not believe. Consequently, the Priesthood and his Church were taken from the earth. 947 e BEAUTIFUL e HANDY e DURABLE A sure way of keeping alive the valuable instruction of each month's Relief Society Magazine is in a handsomely bound cover. The Mountain West's first and finest bindery and printing house is prepared to bind your editions into a durable volume. Mail or bring the editions you wish bound to the Deseret News Press for the finest of service. Cloth Cover — $2.75; Leather Cover — $4.20 Advance payment must accompany all orders. Please include postage according to table listed below if bound volumes are to be mailed. Distance from Salt Lake City, Utah Rate Up to 150 miles 2.000000. 35 150 to 300 miles 0.000000..39 300 to 600 miles 0.0002 -45 @ 600 to 1000 miles 54 1000 to 1400 miles _ 000 00000...64 1400 to 1800 miles 76 Over 1800 miles 0 00...87 Leave them at our conveniently located uptown office. Deseret News Press Phone EMpire 4-2581 33 Richards St. Salt Lake City 1, Utah ROSE PARADE TOUR Eight fun filled days, including San Diego; Tijuana, Mexico; Catalina Island; Los Angeles; Las Vegas. Grandstand seats at Rose Parade leaving December 26, 1962. Also another eight-day Rose Parade Tour via Reno and San _ Francisco leaving December 26. MEXICAN TOUR Leaving middle of March, 1963. Mexico City; Cholula, Pueblo, Taxco, Cuernavaca, Acapulco, Archaeological Ruins. ESTHER JAMES TOURS 460 7th Avenue Salt Lake City 3, Utah Phones: EM 3-5229 — EL 9-8051 948 The Dispensation of the Fulness of Times When the boy Prophet Joseph Smith received the manifestation of God the Father and his Son, the dispensation of the fulness of times began. With the bestowal of the Priesthood and the revealing of divine law and ordinances, the correct organization of the Church of God was established. Modern revelation established the true meaning of the ancient scripture, and the plan of life and salvation, as taught by Adam, became the direction for the development and progress of modem man. The major responsibility of the Church today is to teach the mission of Jesus Christ, his crucifixion and resurrection, to every nation, kindred, tongue, and people. In this dispensation every enlightenment, every key and power that God has given through the ages to help man fulfill his destiny and to assist in the fulfillment of the purpose of the Father in man's creation, has been restored and _ is available to assist man in his struggle to perfection. Thoughts for Discussion 1. What evidence can you give to show that the purposes of God are the same today as in Adam's day? 2. What is meant by "neither are there any who can stay his hand'? 3. What do you understand by the term "dispensation"? 4. Does the right of choice assure correct decision? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—DECEMBER 1962 REFERENCES D&C Sections 3, 76. Pearl of Great Price Moses, Chapters 1, 6, 7, 8 Book of Abraham New 'Testament Book of Revelation Chapters 5, 6, 8 Old Testament Genesis, Chapters 9-41 Exodus Plea Betty G. Spencer I ask thee, not To sweep this hurt aside, Nor smooth my path That twists, in darkened glades. But grant me strength To meet grief face to face; And faith — that I Shall walk in sunnier days. Amazing NEW! MAGNIFYING GLASS Magna-Vu SPECIAL KF CHRISTMAS GIFT FOR A LOVED ONE Helps You See Better Leaves Hands Free To Work Unfolds so that it can be hung from the neck and be supported away from the body leaving both hands free to do dozens of tedious jobs. Small objects become larger. Folds up small enough to carry in a lady's purse or man's pocket. Comes with case. LOOK — Many Uses It is especially good for: Reading. Needlepoint. Sewing. Removing slivers. Crocheting. Threading needle. Price $5.00 postpaid DESERET SUPPLY 464 North 8th West Salt Lake City 16, Utah SU awON = AUDIO-VISUAL PRESENTATIONS AVAILABLE FOR RENTAL At the Relief Society General Board Office 76 North Main, Salt Lake City 11, Utah VISITING TEACHING: "A Light Shining," Conference 1958, 28 slides and script, illustrating the many blessings received through visiting teaching — 0 2 000..20. C2csecceeeeeeeeeeeeecceneveceseneeeseecneeee$1.00 "Toward Ideal Womanhood," Conference 1962, slides and script, featuring the life of Mary Fielding Smith, wife of Hyrum Smith, and mother of President Joseph F. Smith, exemplifying the application of the Visiting Teacher Messages ----$1.00 "Unto the Least of These," Conference 1959, a 30-minute, 16 mm color film dealing with the value of Visiting Teaching — 2..2 00.2eceescecceeeeceeececeseeeeececeneeseecesececeeee$5.00 MAGAZINE: "As a Voice Speaking,'" Conference 1960, 35 slides and script, an historical account of the "Woman's Exponent" and 'The Relief Society Magazine" 00 $1.00 "The Make-Up and Mailing of 'The Relief Society Magazine','" Conference 1962, 12-slide presentation and Script ---.---0cs--seese--ecesseeceeesecessecesecesecereceseessnaseeneceeseseeeee$.50 SOCIAL SCIENCE: "God So Loved the World,' Conference 1962, 24 slides and script on the life of the Savior, introducing the Social Science Course, "Divine Law and Church GovOrMMent ooo. Eee ee eneece ee eeee ce eenencececeeececcesesseescecssesseeseececssecesseseeceucouceeseseseececeeeceseeee$1.00 SECRETARIAL: (sold only) "A Record Shall Be Kept,'' Conference 1961, a 25-minute color filmstrip with recorded narration, showing the importance of record keeping — 20..0.2ccecceccecceeeeeenees$3.00 For Bazaars — Gifts — Handicraft Days— LOOKING FOR NEW IDEAS? YOU'LL FIND THEM AT ZIM'S THE BEST IN HANDICRAFT SUPPLIES — ESTABLISHED 1932 SEND FOR OUR LATEST CATALOG — FREE V Lowest Prices MARBLE "JEWELRY," PLASTIC FILM SUPPLIES V Largest Stocks AND INSTRUCTIONS, FOAM AND TOTE BAGS, V Most Variety TIER HANDLES, BASKETRY, MOSAIC SUPPLIES, V Newest Ideas DOLL AND ANIMAL FACES, COPPER TOOLING, TEXTILE PAINTS, "IRON-ON" TRANSFER PENCILS, ALL FLOWER SUPPLIES, POPSICLE STICKS —EVERYTHING IN HANDICRAFTS Wholesale to Dealers — Discounts to Groups 7 | M''S 240 East 2nd South Salt Lake City 11, Utah 949 Christmas Gifts SEGO LILY JEWELRY: "WIST YE NOT THAT I MUST BE ABOUT MY FATHER'S BUSINESS?" Book by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. This book is an engaging and highly informative account of the Passover and a valuable addition to any home library. $2.00 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE: Inspirational articles, fiction, poetry, and the Relief Society educational program. $2.00 COVER FOR BINDING twelve issues of the Relief Society Magazine. $1.75 SOUVENIR RELIEF SOCIETY BUILDING PLATE: Made of Old English Staffordshire Ware, with bordered pictures of the Relief Society General Presidents. $3.50 Necklaces Heavy chain, gold - filled with double gold-filled pendant. $8.75 Light chain, gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.00 Bracelet Gold-filled with double gold-filled pendant. $6.75 Pins Double gold-filled. $5.50 Gold-filled. $3.75 SMALL RELIEF SOCIETY EMBLEM PIN (12 kt. Gold) $1.75 All prices include federal tax. Available at Office of the General Board 76 North Main Salt Lake City 11, Utah a wy ~% & Between the Covers of this Book i is the story back of the story of Joseph Smith — The Latter-day Prophet. The man who came at the right time — in the right place — with the right message! Here is the factual basis for all of his unique claims you have been awaiting and need to know. (1962 edition.) Within this volume is a chart of YOUR PEDIGREE FOR 2200 YEARS (24 generations from Adam to Ephraim). Lt is prepared with approved dates and " = [> n fa 3 = 4) = aq = references. JAMES H. ANDERSON was one of the best students of scripture and _ history that the Church has ever had. He was the first secretary of the Genealogical Society of Utah. He has written about YOUR RACIAL FAMILY and birthright. THIS BEAUTIFULLY BOUND BOOK AND CHART WILL PLEASANTLY SURPRISE YOU. THE IDEAL CHRISTMAS GIFT ORDER YOUR COPY NOW! (You'll Be Glad You Did) (Detach and Mail) ORDER FOR "JOSEPH SMITH and OUR DESTINY" EARL W. HARMER, PUBLISHER 1177 Yale Avenue Salt Lake City 5, Utah Meemesend ee copies to me. PRICE $2.50 POSTPAID a [] Please send C. O. D. FOF Rem RR Ramm wow we ree eemen ses es cee we weet es en ease tenes tose esa tases ter cnce tees cnees cece cece cece we newsenesn scent tec eteecn seca nsesewccccncccccccceccecceccccencsecess gn 98 WA SSn DMS Smee Seems essen Tenens aes anes Te Tete DOeeeeeheeseEses Sone eeSS ees Seewe Ot es eee sen cece ne esee me mwec ns ccccecccccemunscesuescoccedass BIRTHDAY CONGRATULATIONS Ninety-six Mrs. AticE PAxMAN McCune Mrs. Auice Potts SOULE Nephi, Utah North Little Rock, Arkansas Mrs. Epiry Hitton CHENEY Nineky tive San Leandro, California Mrs. Mary ANN Herran Burrie Mrs. Kary Hoxtipay Cracun Logan, Utah Smithfield, Utah Mrs. EvisaserH THomMas SHaw Mrs. ALIcE JANE WORKMAN WINEGAR Los Angeles, California Independence, Missouri Mrs. A H NS) wi eer Ds Ue Mrs. ANNIE IRENE FREE Morris YOUNG Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. ANNIE ROBERTS SMITH Salt Lake City, Utah Ninety-one Mrs. EvizABETH GOULDING STRAUSER Mrs. Lity May Mounx Livincston Sullivan, Missouri Manti, Utah Ninety-four y Mrs. Mary Goprrey HuMPHREYS Rigby, Idaho Mrs. CATHERINE Owens DANIELS Malad, Idaho e Ninety Ninety-three Mrs. Mary ANN Hype MorTENSEN Mrs. Mary Rovina Norris Ogden, Utah Salt Lake City, Utah Mrs. Lizzir ANN GuLt Monk Mrs. Laura NIELSEN NIELSEN Spanish Fork, Utah Logan, Utah 7 Mrs. ANNA VANDEN KREUNINGER Ninety-two BacHu Mrs. OtiveE L. SANDERS PRITCHETT weet | HALES Mrs. Lypia JANE ALLEN Harpy Salt Lake City, Utah Orderville, Utah Mrs. Ciara ANDERSON NIELSEN Mrs. Mary ELiLen MipGLey PERRY Salt Lake City, Utah Holladay, Utah Thoughts Catherine B. Bowles As we stop to ponder along the way, Are we worthy of blessings sent today, Are the skies much brighter for kind words said, Is someone happier for radiance spread? Lf so, that day has been worthwhile, For a helping hand and a word of cheer Have driven away all the doubt and fear. 952 In Time For Christmas Giving! Creasures of Life by President David O. McKay This inspiring compilation of wisdom and counsel from the pen of the Prophet, President David O. McKay, is just off the press in time for Christmas giving and reading enjoyment. From the pages of the Instructor come _ inspiration, stories, lessons, and the gospel message as presented by the Loid's living mouthpiece. Here is a book that every Latter-day Saint will want to read and refer to over and over again. $4.95 Behold the Lamb of God by the late President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. The late President Clark spent a lifetime in the study of Jesus and His teachings and, on several occasions, stated that he felt his life's work was testifying of the divinity of the Son of the Living God. Even after his passing, President Clark's challenge to Latter-day Saints to pattern their lives after Christ comes forcefully to life in this new compilation of addresses focusing on the Savior. Here is a perfect gift for Christmas! $3.95 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City <7 2472 Washington Blvd., Ogden, Utah il he 0 0 h Co.. 777 South Main Street, Orange, California a x alk Lane City, Utah. " eeaaeeee ius oaweseeccnoasoe se weece Deseret Book Company DE ROA ta a Naas ue uty ben weg s Caliah Ate 3 UNE 44 East South Temple, Salt Lake City, Utah Gentlemen: Enclosed please find check CIEE EROS a DD Bot aaa AOR ANIL RR AS AN NU SEAM as).. Money order. I have account, please charge. Amount enclosed $ for encircled F Tia) books:,? NERC EUnet aanZone State Residents of Utah include 3% Sales Tax Second Class Postage Paid at Salt Lake City, Utah Even would-be homemakers recognize a good thing when they see it - pure U and | Sugar. It's tops for cakes and frostingsand other holiday sweet treats in fact, it's the purest, sweetest, finest sugar you can buy for all kinds of baking, canning and candy making. UW) AND | SUGAR COMPANY General Offices: Salt Lake City, Utah
