[Vol24 | May 1937 | Sequence: 30 | Category: Article | Title: Article by President Louise]
By President Louise Y. Robison WE have been greatly blessed during our two days' Conference. We are grateful to our Heavenly Father that so many of our Sisters have been in attendance, and especially are we thankful for the outpouring of the Spirit of the Lord which has been in our meetings. The six months since our Relief Society Conference in October have been very busy months. Conference-conventions were held in many Stakes in October, November, and in the early part of December.
Reports of the excellent work of Relief Society brought back by the General Board Members were most gratifying. Sister Lyman, now President of Relief Societies of the European Mission, attended the International Council of Women in Dubrovnik, Yugoslavia, representing the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association and Relief Society and as a Delegate from the United States Council of Women. We have kept in touch with all the Mission Relief Societies through a monthly Bulletin, which has been greatly appreciated. In almost every letter from our Mission Presidents word comes of the benefit of these messages. Before Christmas we sent a Bulletin to all Relief Societies urging mothers not to buy toy fire-arms for their children. We have had favorable comment on this movement in many Eastern newspapers as well as those published at home. We are deeply interested in alcohol education and have purchased a moving picture film entitled "The Beneficent Reprobate", which is a powerful lesson on the injurious effects of alcohol in the body and also the benefit of alcohol in industry.
Through the cooperation of the General Boards of Sunday School, the Mutual, and the Primary, this has had a showing to a vast number of people. We are indebted to Brother Hamer Reiser of the Sunday School Board and Brother Orson Goddard for exhibiting this picture. We hope to create interest in having alcohol education taught in schools.
Will you Sisters take this matter up with your School Boards and have the children and young people taught what alcohol is and what alcohol does? We are delighted with the work of our. Magazine Agents.
There are 220
Wards which have reached 100% subscribers. We are deeply interested in the type of radio and moving picture programs which our children hear and see. A listening adult is passive but children absorb wild programs and live them. A friend of mine has a young son who has been listening to one of the programs which tell most vividly the methods used in killing people. This mother was shocked when, a few weeks ago, this very young son said, "The kidnaper of the Matson boy did his work all wrong. Now I would have done so-and-so." Broadcasting and moving RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE picture companies are eager to present the type of program which the people wish. If all mothers would take the pains to know what children hear and see, then write these companies expressing appreciation for suitable programs and also telling why others are objectionable, we would have more wholesome entertainment. I had the privilege of attending the National Council of Women in New York, in December, where an excellent forum was held. Many of the subjects can be carried into our organization with profit. For instance, Mr. Ralph Borsodi, who has made a study of the subject over many years, gave us some information on the value of good housekeeping. Mr. Borsodi claims that the profession of housekeeper is the most valuable of all professions and economically of great importance. That women who make homes—rear and teach children—who direct the educational and spiritual activities of the family and who spend the family income wisely—are certainly not inferior to women who earn money in the business or professional world. Discussing this subject, we wonder why so many of our Latter-day Saint girls choose almost any sort of employment rather than house work, and more disturbing still is the knowledge that many of those who accept such a position are frequently poorly prepared. Some do not even know how to make good bread, and sewing is almost a lost art. Referring again to the subjects discussed at the National Council under the title "Education for Marriage", Dr.. Parker said, "There is no avenue which people are entering for which persons are so poorly prepared as marriage and the responsibility of rearing a family." If this is true, it is especially serious for Latter-day
Saints, for we know that the family is not a temporary group, but should and does continue throughout eternity. Are Relief Society mothers preparing their children—sons as well as daughters—for this most important undertaking? I was in conversation with a man who, a few years ago, was manager of a store in a mining community. He stated that it was the custom for miners to run charge accounts at the store. A number of these miners received the same amount of wages, but the difference in the manner of spending was unbelievable. As a result some would be constantly in debt, while the thoughtful, well-trained families would have a surplus. Can one wonder why, when one of these women who had a family of growing children, daily bought five or six loaves of bread and two dozen cookies? At the average price of ten cents a loaf, the bread bill would be $15 a month. Flour may be more expensive now, but not long ago a good housekeeper told me that she could make 40 loaves of bread out of a dollar's worth of flour. You who have access to the April copy of the Readers Digest, read an article by Kathleen Norris— "A Plea for Less 'Happy' Talk": Under consumers department, the slogan "Know what you want—buy what you ask for" brought out interesting information. We are studying this in our Relief Society in order to know what material will give the greatest service and the most pleasure. Can there be more worthwhile projects than these I have just men- 327 tioned, for us to consider in our homes and in the Relief Society? In almost every Ward there are women who are bewildered with the responsibilities of home, because they do not know how to meet the situation. For years Relief Society women have been making quilts and clothing for women who do not know how to sew; now we want to help them find happiness in sewing for their own children. I hope all women will cooperate. McDonald says, "To have what we want is riches, but to be able to do without is power." The story is told that the servant of the Grail, in the dawn that preceded the coming of Parsifal, aroused the young men about him with the stirring cry—'Hark to the trumpets! Come, let us thank our God that we have the power to hear the call of life and the power to answer as the duty calls." If we wish to have "the power to answer as duty calls" the privilege is ours. Our Father answers earnest prayers of women today as He ever has done. But it is not enough to know, we must learn to act on what we know. Let us return to our homes with the earnest desire to meet life courageously. Let us develop within our own lives those virtues which will give us the power to help others to live more abundantly. Our Church offers us the opportunity—Relief Society is the medium through which we may develop the finest attributes of life.  
THE GENERAL BOARD
President - - - - First Counselor: - Second Counselor - " General Secretary and Treasurer Jennie B, Knight Elise B, Alder Belle S. Spafford Emma A, Empey Inez K. Allen Donna Durrant Sorensen Annie Wells Cannon Ida P. Beal Vivian R. McConkie Lalene H. Hart Cora L. Bennion Amy Whipple Evans Rosannah C, Irvine Nettie D. Bradford Editor - - - - - Manager - - - Assistant Manager - Marcia K. Howells Emeline Y. Nebeker Mary Connelly Kimball Janet M. Thompson
