[Vol24 | May 1937 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Guide | Title: Work and Business Meeting]

Work and Business Meeting, all of our fine Relief Society women were sewing on a layette, and the young mother—a young, able-bodied, strong, intelligent woman sat and held her hands, and her mother sat there and held her hands, and the Relief Society sewed. Going back in the history, we find the Relief Society sewed for the mother when her children were little, and if it goes on this way the Relief Society will be sewing for the grandchildren and _ great-grandchildren. We do not want to be hard. If there are mothers who are ill, or who go out to work, and have a hard time keeping up their work, of course we shall be happy to help them. There is not anything that will bring a person out of despair and some of the women have all the excuse in the world for being in despair, as quickly and as thoroughly as to create some beautiful, useful article. If the mothers will learn to make dresses for their children it will bring delight and happiness to them, and they will have the desire to do more.
WE are asking in each Ward of the Church, if you have a drive for used clothes, take out a few pieces that you know would be suitable for making over for these individual families. There will be much more of an incentive for the women to take care of clothes if they make them themselves, rather than having handed to them anything that happens to be on hand. This is not in conflict at all with the Church Security. The Church Security have their big splendid program, in which we are all united. For the past year we all gave every bit of help we could, and many of the women worked beyond their strength. As a result many of our
Ward Presidents are resigning, saying they cannot carry the load as they did last year. When anything new is begun, it takes effort, and we were happy to give the service. We want to continue doing anything the Church Security want us to do, but we hope it will not be necessary to sew day after day and send that sewing into storehouses, unless there is some special need. Our call now is to see that every woman who is able and strong enough to knit, to sew, or to use her hands in any useful way, be taught how to do something. This will give more encouragement to them than all the work others could do for them. We have said for years we want to administer to the strength, and not the weakness, of our people, and it is administering to their weakness to do anything for them that they can do for themselves. That is "Mormon" doctrine, and has been ever since the Church was organized. In canning fruit, instead of us going to the meeting house, or
our Relief Society room, and putting up fruit for our sisters' use, it would be better to have someone teach women to put up the fruit for their own needs. See, too, that those who need the fruit are supplied with bottles and sugar at the time the fruit is ready. The pride of having a dozen jars of peaches that she has put up herself will be a great stimulant to any woman. We want to lift our women up. They have had a hard time, and it is our pleasure to help them get the joy that comes through meeting their own problems. I pray that our Father in Heaven will bless you that you can interpret the needs of the people; that you can see where you can help in such a way that will add to the strength of those whom you serve. When the census is taken we want, to have our people make a better report than the people in the world, because we have had inspired leaders, who, for years, have been helping us.