[Vol24 | May 1937 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Beatrice F. Stevens]

By Beatrice F. Stevens THE Sabbath day was instituted much earlier than the time of Moses at Mount Sinai, but evidently the Israelites at that time needed to be forcefully reminded of this commandment. In our day there is serious need for bringing to mind the significance of this day, a need to remember blessings derived from its proper observance.
While it brings definite obligations, it was never intended that the Lord's day be made burdensome, but rather to add joy and happiness to our lives.
Immeasurable good comes from making it truly a day of worship and rest, and not the least of the benefits derived, are physical. All diligent members of our Church know that for them the Sabbath is not a day of rest in the sense of idleness, one with no responsibilities. Yet it should be and is for relaxation.
There are many ways to receive physical refreshment.
When the Lord asked that one-seventh of all time be set apart for rest and worship, He knew the needs of those ancient people, and foresaw what would be best for us today. He has given us much to help safeguard physical health in this age of speed and distracting conditions —our Word of Wisdom and our Day of Rest.
There is nothing of greater importance to us as mothers than keeping in good health—so much of the well-being of those dearest to us depends upon that. To awaken on a Sabbath morning knowing it will be an exceptional, a very special day, the culmination of six days of wise planning, what a reassuring and restful experience. The relief from fatigue that comes from too constant performing of the same tasks, is most conducive to good health.
Rest is not only a great step toward the cure of disease but an important aid in its prevention, both mental and physical.
Because the nature of physical man is to deteriorate, a resting time is necessary to recreate and preserve our capabilities.
There is much today that gives us concern as parents. Patience, sympathetic understanding and proper example will aid materially in solving our problems. Is it not of untold value for the father to have one day a week when he may draw closer to his family and enjoy the relaxation that comes from a more intimate and friendly contact?
Being in church in the atmosphere of worship, brings peace. There, I for one, may find freedom from cares that weary and disturb my peace of mind. It is a good place to check on the past week's activities and discover mistakes, thereby gaining 318 strength and wisdom that may help toward improvement.
Jesus said the Sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath. The important thing is to use it wisely in order to receive the greatest blessings. To be the people the Lord would have us be, "a light set upon a hill," RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE depends upon individual members of the Church. It should be the aim of each to perfect himself, spiritually, mentally and physically.
What a wonderful opportunity the Sabbath day offers for these objectives! If we are attuned to the spirit of the day, we will "think the most, feel the noblest and act the best." EXAMPLE OF PARENTS, AS RELATED TO THE OBSERVANCE OF THE SABBATH DAY