[Vol24 | May 1937 | Sequence: 19 | Category: Guide | Title: Work and Business Meeting]

Work and Business Meetings. I said to the Committee, "We will send it out, but it is not possible for them to get the report in time." It is amazing how many have come in. When we sent out the material
on Child Character Education the response was most gratifying. Dr. Cushing came to the office to express her appreciation for your fine work. At the Brigham Young University Leadership Week, Mrs. Hayes, a National Officer of Parent Teachers, said they never had such a response, they did not believe it was possible. Miss Scorup came from the Capitol to thank the Relief Society. We are thanking you, because it was you who did the work. It was very fine. Financial Report Given At Ward Conferences: In some of the Ward Conferences it is customary to report the financial condition of Relief Society. We feel that this is not the best thing to do. We do not want to hide any report. The Bishop and the Ward Clerk have access to our reports, but there are some people who feel if we have forty or fifty dollars in the treasury, we should give more generously in the Ward. Others may feel there is no need to make contributions. We think it is better not to report the amount on hand. The number of persons assisted may be reported, but of course using no names. Visiting Teachers: Reports indicate that the Visiting Teachers are doing better work. This is because of the help that is given in the Wards and Stakes. We would like to call your attention, however, to a report that in some of the Stakes the Visiting Teachers make their visits on Sunday. We much rather this would not be done. Sunday is a home day, and while more people may be in on that day, it breaks into the Sabbath. That is a family day, and it would be better not to have Visiting Teachers call on Sunday unless there is something very unusual, such as a message from the Bishop or Relief Society President. Employment Bureau: We have
at Headquarters of Relief Society a very fine Employment Bureau. Many girls, coming in from the country for employment, possibly because of limited funds, will stay at dangerous rooming houses overnight, and try to find employment the next day. If these girls would write to Sister Amy W. Evans, at General Board of Relief Society Headquarters, and tell her what their qualifications are, and what they would like to do, then let Sister Evans write to them and tell them when they can come in, it would save a great deal of expense, and more important than the expense, it would save many heartaches. These girls are usually fine, clean girls, but they are away from home and loved ones, and they sometimes do things for a little fling that they would not think of doing in their own homes. It is very seldom a girl can go out for a fling without heartaches after. If* these girls would get in touch with Sister Evans we could find them lodging in a good place while arrangement is being made for work. May Day Health Program: We have been called as a group to work with the May Day Health Program for Children. The programs are to be under the direction of the Parent Teachers. Most of our Relief Society women belong to Parent Teachers' organizations, but we are asking that all Relief Societies cooperate in this excellent movement. You will not be asked to supply funds, but anything you can do to encourage and cooperate in this splendid work will be appreciated. Relief Society Assistance In Church Security: For years the Relief Society has sewn, made quilts, clothing, and layettes for those who have needed these articles and did not know how to sew. We are going to change this method and assist the
sisters in doing the work themselves. In one of our Wards in Salt Lake, at the