[Vol24 | May 1937 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: The Lord'S Day]

THE LORD'S DAY
By Jennie B. Knight "For the Lord is good; His mercy is everlasting and His truth endureth to all generations." EST we forget, during this period of our conference we are to consider the Sabbath or the Lord's day.
What has He said concerning it?
According to the Bible the first Sabbath was established by God Himself; celebrating the creation.— Genesis 20:58. "The heavens and the earth were finished and all the host of them. and He rested on the seventh day from all His work, and God blessed the Sabbath day and sanctified it." The Ten Commandments written by the hand of God on Sinai reveal His deep interest in the spiritual and physical welfare and happiness of His children. (See Exodus 20.) That the Israelites might be impressed with the sanctity of the Sabbath, during their travels in the wilderness, God sent no manna on that day but they were commanded to gather twice as much on the sixth as on any other day.
Down through the corridors of time we find the prophets, Isaiah, Nehemiah, Ezekiel and others declaring the word of God in explicit instructions regarding His holy day. Through Ezekiel He made a covenant saying, "Hallow my Sabbaths; and they shall be a sign between me and you, that they may know that I am the Lord your God."
Jesus honored the Sabbath day and proclaimed himself Lord of the Sabbath, emphasizing its blessedness when he proclaimed that the Sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath. That Sabbath observance and partaking of the Lord's supper on that day was a custom of the Christian churches, is attested by the Apostles Mark, Luke, John and Paul. The benedictions of a sacred Sabbath were not withheld from the people of Book of Mormon days, that these benedictions are vouchsafed to all who obey the commandments of God is reiterated by Joseph Smith—Doctrine and Covenants, Section 59. "Thou shalt thank the Lord thy God in all things.
That thou mayest more fully keep thyself unspotted from the world, thou shalt go to the house of prayer, and offer up thy sacraments upon My holy day. For verily this is a day appointed unto you to rest from your labors and to pay thy devotions unto the Most High. "Nevertheless thy vows shall be offered up in righteousness on all RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE days and at all times, but remember that on this the Lord's day thou shalt offer thine oblations and thy sacraments unto the Most High confessing thy sins. "And on this day thou shalt do none other thing only let thy food be prepared, with singleness of heart that thy fasting may be perfect, or 317 in other words, that thy joy may be full. And inasmuch as ye do these things with cheerful hearts and countenances the fullness of the earth is yours."
That we may know thy truth, that endureth to all generations, "Lord God of Hosts, be with us yet, lest we forget, lest we forget." PHYSICAL VALUE OF A DAY OF REST