[Vol24 | May 1937 | Sequence: 28 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Rae Barlow]

By Rae Barlow Barker JESUS could foresee the complications, confusion, and uncertainty of life in our day. He knew we would need the blessings He had promised if we observed His sacrament: peace, strength in right doing, assurance of His power, "His Spirit to be with us." If we succeed in obtaining these blessings for the whole family, we must do more than wish and hope. The desired results will need the best efforts of both the home and the church. The guiding hand of an ingenious, planning parent will be needed which can bring the family together to enjoy varied activities. Then, going to sacrament meeting together will more naturally follow. If there is a spirit of tolerance in the home, and a genuine display of fellowship in our sacrament meeting, many who now feel unwanted may be encouraged to be with us. An old philosopher claimed there were three roads to accomplishment: inspiration, investigation, and application.
That parent, and we might also add that speaker, can best inspire who himself has been inspired.
Investigation should include more than a study of the gospel. It might stand us in hand to know what our children's interests are. If we stand on common ground with them in our thinking, it will be much easier to direct their activities on the Sabbath day.
Application will demand all the tact, faith, and intelligent planning at our command. A well-planned work-week, with opportunity for recreation, is important. One mother knew the secret of forming habits. She often correlated her children's happy experiences with their Sabbath meeting, saying, while they were still enjoying a particular situation, "There are many ways of displaying gratitude for these good things. One way is to go with thankful hearts to partake of the sacrament."
That family regularly enjoys the benefits of the sacrament meeting. After Jesus administered the Last Supper to the disciples, He said, "If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them."
Knowledge is a personal thing. As individuals and parents we may know that the benefits of the sacrament service are realities. It does not follow, however, that the members of our families possess the same knowledge. But with faith, study, and activity we can each know. We have a real challenge to stimulate those near us to find out for themselves if the promises hold good. Can we meet the challenge? Not wholly within the family. The sacrament meeting itself has a responsibility—also the individual.
Competitive interests make it necessary that we are ever on the alert to improve the quality of our meetings.
Each of us can contribute to the sacrament service by his presence if he goes in the spirit of worship.
With the sacrament, as with the radio, we have to be where the instrument is and be "tuned in" if we want to get the message, The Book of Mormon promises that if we ask with a sincere heart, with real intent, He will manifest the truth to us. Can we stimulate our families to apply a similar test to the worth of the sacrament meeting? Can we open to them the vision that by mutual participation our lives are enriched? "If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them." 
  THE following are the organizations and reorganizations since October Conference. ORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Appointed President Feb., 1937
Chicago Lois E. Astin REORGANIZATIONS Date Stake Released Appointed President Feb., 1937
Cassia Effie H. Walker Annie M, Mercer Nov., 1936
Duchesne Evelyn C. Moffitt Margaret M. Pace (deceased) Jan., 1937
Ogden Ida M. Treseder Cora S. Jenkins Nov., 1936
Rigby Lettie E. Call Phoebe Gordon (deceased) Oct., 1936
Moroni Mt. Ogden Almira C. Rich Ethel B. Andrew Mar., 1937
Oquirrh Phoebe Ridd Ella P. Bennion Feb., 1937
Curlew Mary J. Pixton Anna S. Blackham (deceased) Jan., 1937
West Jordan Lillian Ivory Rebecca N. Cutler (deceased) Dennis A. Larkin Evelyn Neilsen The Relief Society organization felt greatly honored by the presence of Sister Luacine S. Clark, who added her expressions of appreciation and her encouragement to the sisters in their work. Second General Session REPORT ON EUROPEAN MISSION RELIEF SOCIETIES Emily T. Merrill, Former President IN the European Missions four Conferences are held each year. Two are devoted to the Priesthood activities, the other two are auxiliary conference-conventions, in which the auxiliaries combine, perhaps the Relief Society and Sunday School, or the Relief Society and Primary.
These conferences begin on Saturday evening, usually with a social meeting, and three meetings on Sunday are devoted to conference work. The home group plan, adopted in the European Mission wherever possible, has given increased responsibility to the local saints, the priesthood and members of the Church.
According to this plan, the districts and branches are patterned after the Stakes and Wards of the Church here in the States, and the District Presidencies and the Branch Presidencies are local members.
This has released the Elders from much of the work which they had to do in presiding over these units of the Church, and has given them much more time for proselyting activities. It has also increased the opportunity of the local saints for activity, and that has had splendid results. We know that we gain through activity, and we enjoy our membership in the Church better when we are active. In the Missions the auxiliary organizations are supervised by a Mission Board, with a minimum of four members—Presidency and Secretary. The districts have supervisors and the branches have such officers and teachers as circumstances will permit.
More teachers could be used, but there is always a shortage of suitable leadership.
Where there is a good Relief Society there will be a live, active branch. Relief Society is the mainstay of the Branch and the righthand of the Branch President.. Our Branches for the most part are small, and therefore our Relief Society groups are small. The membership is scattered over a great area, and for the most part they are poor people.
Transportation is quite an item in their limited budget.
When they come to the meetings on Sunday they feel that is all they can afford. In a number of the missions where this scattered membership exists, the sisters meet on Sunday, while the Priesthood are gathered in their meetings.
There are a great many older sisters who are timid and hesitate to go out in the evening.
These meet in the afternoon, and the younger sisters who are engaged during the day meet in the evening.
There is no uniformity as to day or hour, but it was felt advisable to hold these meetings when as many as possible of these sisters could benefit by the wonderful work done by the Relief Society. The sisters do enjoy the lesson material which the General Board provides.
Special attention has been given to the preparation of these lessons, in order to meet the needs and conditions of the different missions. You know all of the lessons must be translated into a foreign language, and sometimes books from 323 which the lesson material is prepared are not available in these foreign languages.
Special lessons in social service work have been written, and literary lessons taken from the literature of these particular countries; the German literary lessons from German literature, and the French from French, and so on.
Much thought has been given to this, and the mission workers and mission authorities are certainly very grateful for this wonderful service.
Many of our devoted members are called upon to make sacrifices in a financial and social way because of their membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, but they make these gladly and willingly because of the abundance and richness of life that has come to them because of their faith and membership in the Church. No better way could we all serve and preach the Gospel of Jesus Christ than in our way of living, showing the spirit of true brotherhood and sisterhood. It seems to me what the world needs today more than anything else is a demonstration of Christianity in action.
Since the main purpose of Relief Society has always been to render service, we have called upon the sisters over there to do some special work. You know when you want something well done, you call on the sisters to do it. At the Mission Presidents' Conference held in June, 1935, in Liege, Belgium, the Presidents decided to ask the Relief Society sisters to organize a Home and Neighborhood Primary.
This effort has been crowned with success in many ways. We had to take the outstanding leadership to do this, but other sisters of the groups were called forward to learn to be leaders in our Relief Societies. These Home and Neighborhood Primaries all had enrolled children of non-members; the sisters became acquainted with the mothers of these children and entered the homes and had an opportunity to leave a message.
Many of these mothers became interested enough to come to Church and to Relief Society meetings, and some joined the Church. A great number of the children who were contacted are now enrolled in our Sunday Schools. The benefit of this is, that all those who were contacted heard the message of the restored Gospel. The seed was sown—who knows what the harvest may be! We might not see, but some day this message will come back to them. The growth of the Church on the outside is very slow, but there is growth from within. We can only hold the children and the young people of our members through our organization work. The Relief Society sisters are outstanding leaders in the Gleaner, Sunday School and other organizations.
Those of you who have sons and daughters laboring in these foreign missions I am sure would like to hear just a few words about the mission authorities, especially the mission mothers.
These are set apart as consulting advisors to all the women's organizations, and are selected as president of the Relief Society, or the Primary or the Young Women's Mutual Improvement Association, whichever organization needs them most, or the one in which work they are most familiar. In addition to these duties, all the material used in the foreign mission needs to be translated, and adapted to the country, and this is the work of the mission mothers.
They have a family also which needs the supervision and the care of a mother just as if they were living here, and the family has grown tremendously. All the missionaries, your sons and daughters, are members of the Mission President's family, and that is a great responsibility.
Many of these young people have never been away from home, they are in strange lands, among strange conditions and people. Is it any wonder that they become homesick and disheartened? And so the Mission President and his wife encourage them, cheer them up, advise them, stand by them, pray for them as they would for their own children. I think no parents could be more concerned with the health and welfare of these missionaries than are the mission parents. ADDRESS