[Vol24 | May 1937 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Leda T. Jensen]

By Leda T. Jensen FROM the New Testament, the Book of Mormon, and the Doctrine and Covenants, we have definite and ample proof that our Savior, the Redeemer of mankind, made the partaking of the sacrament a vital and necessary part of the spiritual life of his followers in both the meridian of time and in this dispensation. The sacred covenant with its attendant blessing which we repeat as we consecrate the emblems of the broken body and the spilt blood of the Lord has been revealed to the Latter-day Saints so that we have the exact words of the covenant recorded in the Doctrine and Covenants. As a witness to this sacred scripture, we have the same blessings of consecration recorded by Moroni in the Book of Mormon. The sacrament is administered to commemorate the atonement of the Lord Jesus as consummated in His agony and death.
Each time we partake of the sacred emblems we manifest before the Father that we do remember His Son, and by the act of partaking of the bread and the cup, we make solemn covenant that we do take upon us the name of our Redeemer, and make a pledge and an agreement that we will keep his commandments, and we do this in the hope that we may have his Spirit to be with us. No member of the Church who refuses to observe this sacred ordinance can retain the inspiration and guidance of the Holy Ghost. If we really realized and felt the need of spiritual food for growth, we would be present at the appointed place where this may be and is administered. Why do we not all come? Is it because we do not feel ourselves worthy to partake, or is it because we do not appreciate the reason and significance for partaking? If we are properly instructed we know that it is not our privilege to partake of the emblems in sin and transgression. The one thing that would make for the safety of every man and woman would be to appear at the sacrament table every Sabbath. We would not go so far astray in one week that we could not rectify the wrong we have done. The weekly observance of this ordinance would help us to be worthy to partake. The Father looked on with great grief and agony at the earthly sufferings of His Son, but His love for us made it possible for Him to give the Savior to us, the Redeemer of the world. If we knew what it cost our Father to give us His Son, if we realized how essential the sacrifice made by Jesus is to us, we would always be present at the sacrament table to honor the gift that has come to us. As the Standard Bearers of the Church, we need the sacrament. We need to renew our covenants every week. We need the Spirit of the Lord so we may be able to keep ourselves unspotted from the sins of the world, from Sabbath to Sabbath, and some day be worthy to eat and drink with our Savior, in His Father's kingdom.
  THE SACRAMENT MEETING BLESSES THE WHOLE FAMILY