[Vol24 | May 1937 | Sequence: 25 | Category: Article | Title: Article by Vivian R. Mc]

By Vivian R. McConkie T is written: "Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it."
This is a challenge to the women of the Church, and they ought to respond according to Church standards, among which standards Sabbath Day observance is of major importance. "Training" implies conduct control, and not merely teaching moral codes.
Parents who do not teach religion by example as well as by precept, and who do not train by restraints, when necessary, build foundations on the sand, and winds of skepticism may entice their children from truth.
Faith and understanding must be developed, if the child knows that there is a God who rewards for well doing and who punishes for transgression.
Without a knowledge of the gospel there is no security, and if parents fail to teach and to train their children in the Church, the sin will "be upon the heads of the parents," but the par-. Ents' suffering will not save the children.
Divergent opinions prevail as to precepts because of lack of scriptural understanding.
Private interpretations stimulate false standards and invite senseless yieldings to unsound philosophies.
Mothers ought to restrain and to direct during maturity of reasoning faculties.
Habitual repetition makes acts agreeable, and it is shameful to permit destructive repetitions in children of tender years, without restraint.
Intelligent direction of desires is surely as important as going to school on time, yet we unhesitatingly require that.
With relation to the Sabbath, parents should first know what ought to be done on that day, and then should adjust their ideals to conform to Church standards, rather than to shape Church standards to their ideals. If parents would study the scriptures more and more confusion as to standards would grow less and less, Objective study is a high form of learning. It will help one to establish purposive co-ordinated activity between mind and body Understand the nature of your children and know your own ideals are patterned after the divine will, then study the means of their achievement.
Never relax your efforts until mental development makes safe election possible.
Control the child's acts and direct his thoughts and ambitions until he acquires self direction and judgment.
When his reasoning powers mature he will see the wisdom of imposed restrictions.
Watch their spiritual training and development as you do their daily diet, and habits of cleanliness and their mental and physical RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE progress.
Your child will be happiest If you do not require him to decide whether he will obey the law.
During the formative period the parents' standards and examples are the child's ideals. Therefore, the parent ought never to sin even though others are sinning, or to be little even though hedged in by little 319 people, or to lower himself to match lower standards, or to do as Romans do (if evil) because he is in Rome.
Elect the good.
There is no middle ground. Hear Joshua: "And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day whom ye will serve,... But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord." SACRAMENT—PHYSICAL ASPECT