[Vol24 | May 1937 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Article | Title: Lace Knowles]
SARAH ALLRED AND HER SEVEN LIVING DAUGHTERS
Lace Stockings By Mary Ek Knowles
ELLEN was rinsing the last of the week's wash when the phone rang. She turned off the washer, wiped her wet hands on a hand towel, stepped with amazing skill over blocks, toys, and a rag dog with one eye, and cautioned Denny to "be quiet while Mummy answers the phone." "Hello." It was Paul. Her heart skipped a beat, her dark eyes softened. Nice to feel that way about your husband after eleven years of married life. "Mrs. Dale," Paul's voice informed her with studied seriousness, "we're going out to a dinner at the Plaza Hotel." "A dinner dance, Paul? When?" "Tonight." "Tonight! But Paul—'" If that wasn't just like a man, "I haven't—" "Don't tell me you haven't anything to wear. Go to town. Buy something. It's going to be a big affair. See you tonight, sweetheart."
ELLEN hung up the receiver with a steady hand. Must get a wave. Hire Nora Daniels to tend Denny. She frowned at her reddened hands. Wouldn't have washed if she had known. If only there were more time. * * * Then excitement possessed her. She swooped up golden-haired Denny, hugged him tightly, sang, "Mummy's going out tonight * * * going to a dinner dance * * *" stirred the soup—the three older children would soon be home for lunch—put Denny down, and took the budget book from the cupboard. She would have to buy a dress. No hope of renovating the thrice-altered blue crepe. And shoes. And by all means, stockings. Her one and only good pair had a darn in the heel. For fifteen minutes while the little Dutch clock ticked on the wall and Denny built a leaning tower of blocks, she juggled figures on a piece of white paper, her forehead wrinkled, her dark head bent. "Fourteen dollars and sixty-five cents—no —say fifteen dollars,'—she finally announced aloud." That meant, of course, letting the doctor bill and the payment on the piano go until the first, but—Oh, if only she could buy a dress like Aunt Jasmine had worn to the Andrews last week. Couldn't pay as much, of course. Aunt Jasmine had a good paying position, alimony from her divorce, an apartment with maid service and—no children. It was with a feeling of high adventure and reckless, luxurious extravagance that Ellen began the afternoon that clear April day. It is rare indeed for the mother of four growing children to have $15.00 to spend on herself. Not that it would always be that way. Things were a little close now with Paul just starting in business for himself, but some day—well—some men had the ability to get ahead. Paul was one of them. She entered the first shop and told the stout, beaming saleswoman her need. "Dinner dress?" She piloted Ellen over deep-piled rugs to the realm of glass cases, soft lights, and long mirrors. She brought out a peach-colored taffeta dress, long and full,
with a short, demure jacket." Exquisite, isn't it? You can just step in here—" Ellen caught her breath for the sheer loveliness of the gown, but held up her hand. "I'm afraid—how much is it?" "Just $29.50. A bargain at that price, isn't it?" "Yes, but—" Ellen hesitated, feeling stupid and painfully conscious of last. Year's black felt hat and the darn in her left heel. "Haven't you something a little less—" The saleswoman lifted her arched eyebrows and sniffed audibly. "I'm afraid not. We don't carry cheap merchandise." She turned her back on Ellen with an injured, hurt air.
WHY, Sue Daniels never paid more than ten dollars for a dress, Ellen consoled herself when she was again outside. Of course Sue was smaller, easier to fit—. Suddenly Ellen laughed. That awful saleswoman. What fun she would have telling Paul about it. "* * * she looked surprised, darling, and she sniffed, just as if I'd suddenly pulled a dead fish out of mid-air and held it under her nose!" Surely, in the next shop she would find just what she wanted. Still, for all her optimism, that heady feeling of excitement was gone. She felt tired, let down. No wonder. She had had no lunch! In the last minute'rush of finishing the washing, giving Nora instructions about Denny and getting herself ready to go she had entirely neglected that little matter. She hurried down the street and into "The Red Robin." A bowl of soup, and a sandwich, they would take away that gaunt, empty feeling.
ELLEN McCARTHY." She turned suddenly at the sound of her name. Saw Marjory Adams,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Drucilla Lane, and Judy Allan at a nearby table. And suddenly the years rolled back. She was a schoolgirl again. Hurrying from classes to lunch with this same trio. She hurried towards the table, clasped slim white hands in her own, kissed Marjory on the cheek and seated herself in the empty chair. Everyone talked at once. "This is a reunion. First Marjory, then Drucilla, now Ellen." "It's been years—" "Twelve years—" "Don't remind me!" Ellen looked at the three women. They didn't look any older. The three pretty school girls had become three smartly clad, sophisticated women. That hat of Judy's—black straw, plain, but so smart, with the tiny nose veil. And Marjory. The sheer blue wool dress she wore cried Paris and Chanel in every line. As for Drucilla. No one could wear tailored things with quite the same dash as she. Ellen felt suddenly self-conscious. She straightened her hat, and hid her rough hands beneath the table. She must look like a little brown wren alongside them. The conversation turned to the subject of what each had been doing in the twelve years since they last met. -Marjory had been in Paris studying art. She clasped her long, perfectly manicured hands and told of the exhibit of her work to be held that summer in New York. Her etchings were attracting no little attention, she informed them with a proud little lilt in her voice. Drucilla asked what she thought about the future of modernistic Art, and Ellen felt herself suddenly shut out. She remained silent, trying to keep pace with their clever, brilliant talk. Judy had made a name for herself in the world of music and she had "dabbled a bit, with no little success,
LACE STOCKINGS
