[Vol24 | May 1937 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: ANNUAL REPORT]
ANNUAL REPORT Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
IT GIVES me great pleasure to give to you a very brief report of the Relief Society. This statement, as it is now presented, is a complete statement of the totals, as we have included the Stake Boards this year in our Statement of Receipts. This may seem, on the face of it, to change the report slightly, but you sisters will understand it when the details are given in the public statement. This represents the Missions, Stakes and Wards of the Relief Society: Total Balance on Hand January 1, 1936, $188,256.- 30; Total Receipts during 1936, $296,295.63; Total Balance on Hand and Receipts, $484,551.93; Paid for Charitable Purposes, $66,189.48; Total Disbursements, $280,916.50; Total Balance, December 31, 1936, $203,635.43; Total Assets, $1,003,- 820.70; Ward Conferences Held, 1,427; Number of Visits by Visiting Teachers, 986,687; Number of Special Visits to Sick and Homebound, 215,260. Membership in 1935, 72,- 093; in 1936, 73,062; an increase of 969. The Membership includes: Executive and Special Officers, 15,- 236; Visiting Teachers, 24,602; Other Members, 32,255. Average attendance in 1935, 32,335; 1936, 31,784; a decrease of 551. Paid for Charitable Purposes in 1935, $66,- 863.86; in 1936, $66,189.48, a decrease of $674.38.
Counselor Kate M. Barker
FOR some time the General Board has felt the need for some outlet for the handwork of our Relief Society women. They have looked forward to the time which seemed opportune for beginning this project. In our Church we have so many expert needlewomen. We felt that if the  , where we might contact the tourists and sell this handwork, it might be a very great help to our people. It would give the mothers in the home an opportunity in their spare time for creating something beautiful, and also help to increase the family income. As Sister Robison has said, our Presiding Bishopric and General Authorities have been very much interested and very kind. They have given us the large room upstairs in the Bureau of Information. We are delighted with this because it is on the Temple Block, where every tourist who comes to Salt Lake goes. We hope to have things in readiness for this season's tourist trade. We have drawn up the following rules in regard to this. WOMAN'S EXCHANGE 1. Name—The organization shall be known as: MORMON HANDICRAFT Sponsored by L. D. S. Woman's Relief Society 2. A non-profit organization for the outlet of Handwork. 3. Membership — there may two types of membership: a. Stake Board or Ward Membership, when the proceeds go to the Stake Board or Ward organization. The price of membership is $1.00 per year. B. Individual Membership. The price of membership is 50c per year. 4, Twenty-five percent of the price of the article will be taken for. Overhead. This percent to be taken when the article is sold. 5. The Stake Work and Business Supervisor, with the Ward Work and Business Supervisors will constitute the Stake Committee to contact the women and pass upon the work to be sent in to assure the work to be of the highest standard of excellence. 6. Application for Membership must be made through the local Committee. This year this committee will seek out and invite expert needle women to participate. 7. When an article is sent in, the person contributing will give the cost of material used and what she considers a fair price for the article. 8. A Committee of the General Board, or ones chosen by the Board, will be the final judges of the articles to be featured. This Committee will also assume the responsibility of equalizing prices. 9. A Paid worker will have charge of the shop. 10. The General Board does not guarantee to sell articles submitted. The obligation they assume is proper care of the articles after they are received, insurance against fire and theft, exhibiting, trying to sell, and if not sold within a reasonable time to return the article to the owner. 11. We advise the insuring of all articles by the sender when mailing. 

  THE SPIRITUAL SIDE OF MUSIC Janet M. Thompson THERE is so much of beauty and inspiration in music let us provide a richer field for it to live in—a field where it can more fully develop the spiritual life—where it can more harmoniously speak to us—where it can more consistently help us. The importance of music in its application to the Relief Society program is deserving of thoughtful consideration.
Music in any service should be the best circumstances will permit. In the process of elevating this art to higher levels certain standards should be observed.
Various elements enter into the treatment of music which either build or unbuild the spirit of it.
Definite and essential elements involved in our building program are: 1. The quality and character of music. 2. The ability and responsibility of the performer. 3. The attitude and cooperation of the congregation. The quality and character of music is a most vital element.
There may be the finest of quality in what we choose to use but is it appropriate in character? Relief Society standards prescribe that music shall be appropriate for all occasions—that it shall be good music. Let us make our music two-fold in purpose—aim to touch the hearts and lives of our people—maintain the very highest ideals of music. Let us dignify it—make it worthy and effective, remembering always that nothing is perfect enough for the worship of God. The ability and responsibility of the performer involves another element. The charm of one who performs lies in her ability to select proper music—to render it in such a way that it can be interpreted and felt by the audience.
Experience has proved that when either a voluntary or a song is selected at the moment it is to be used neither the composition nor the playing or singing of it is worthy of its true purpose. Our women have demonstrated that their ability to stimulate others to greater appreciation of music does not lie in some rare accomplishment, but rather in humble, sincere and earnest endeavor. It is genuine acknowledgement of responsibility and vision of possibilities that prepares one for intelligent performance of her duty. The attitude and cooperation of the congregation is another important element. Our songs, which for the most part are expressions of prayer, praise and thanksgiving, have been penned by men and women of superior faith and courage.
Many of them have been written after great thought and sacrifice has been made. How often are these lovely songs just mechanically and _ passively sung? Do we respond to the spirit of the song when no emotion is stirred? Do we have full understanding of its meaning and significance—do we sing thinkingly—do we convey the message intended? If hymns speak to us of faith, let us express that faith in song. If they utter words of doctrine let us teach that doctrine through song. If they offer words of comfort and solace let us impart that message in song. Let us strive to improve the quality, the character and effectiveness of music.
There is a great field for musical service—let us work for spiritual excellence in that field.
  LIBRARIES Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary F making many books there is no end," we read in Ecclesiastes. The collection of books, the author of which is the Human Race, is so vast that we do not know just how or when it started. We know we shall never see the end of it. It is one of the eternal verities of life, linking together the past, the present, and the future. All we know of the greatness of the past is revealed mainly through the libraries. One of the most important events in the history of the world was the invention of printing by means of movable type. The honor for this immense service to humanity goes to Johann Gutenberg of Mainz, Germany, who was born about 1400. For many centuries the art of reading and writing was a patrician one, enjoyed only by the Select few. To prepare books was an extremely expensive and laborious process. So printing was the greatest tool ever forged to aid the march of human progress toward the goal of complete social living.
This invention was sanctified by use for the spiritual as well as the material welfare of mankind.
Aristotle says, "All men by nature are actuated with the desire for knowledge."
This desire is undoubtedly the incentive which has led the great nations of the world to collect extensive libraries, of which they should be extremely proud, provided their people use them.
While the idea of libraries is as old as civilization, the free, public library is strictly modern. The idea followed public schools.
Access to schools was free. Why not access to books? In half a century the free public library has emerged from nothingness, into an entirely accepted indispensable national institution. The Relief Society has always kept in step with the march of progress. Its members have been lovers of books. The idea of libraries in Wards and Stakes is not of recent origin. The slogan adopted some time ago has borne rich fruit. "The best reading for the largest number at the least cost," has resulted not merely in the collection of books to be placed somewhere and kept, but made a part of Relief Society activity, used, studied, digested. Of all the privileges we enjoy in this century of opportunity, there is none for which we ought to be more grateful than for the easy access to books. The usual method of our Heavenly Father in passing knowledge along is to endow His children with intelligence to search for it. One of our problems today in the multiplicity of books available, is, what books to read and how to read them. Here Relief Society can render a real service in literary guidance.
Sociologists tell us that libraries are our cultural reservoirs. It is possible for us to have one such cultural reservoir in every Stake and Ward setup. It is not the great number of volumes nor the fine bindings, but the kind of books and the use to which they are put, that really counts.
Much depends upon the librarian. She must have real enthusiasm for her calling. The good teacher does not teach subjects; she teaches her pupils. So the good librarian is not the mere custodian of the books. She is interested in women, and the guidance she can offer them, in awakening their minds, and stimulating their interest. The National Library As- 310 sociation does not hesitate to give the major portion of credit for the phenomenal success of its work, to efficient librarians. We can all do our bit in building libraries, by bringing to the center the books and periodicals that have been useful to us and encouraging our Sisters to raise the whole level of existence by coming to know life, through the minds of the great souls RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of earth. To find something in the spirit of the times with which one can be in harmony, is to be happy.
Carlyle has wisely said that a collection of books is a real University. As we progress in our courses of study, we can create in all our organizations "a real University," a guide to youth, an entertainment for age, a source of real power to us all. DEPARTMENT MEETINGS Magazine DEPARTMENT Mary C. Kimball, Chairman WE deeply appreciate the earnest, efficient work of our Magazine Agents and the loyal support of our officers and teachers. We are grateful to our many subscribers for their support also.
Last season was our banner year, when we had a subscription list of 41,500. We heartily thank those who have: made such a high list possible.
This year we have a pamphlet of printed instructions. We hope our Agents and Officers will carefully read and reread them until the details are in their minds.
This will result in fewer misunderstandings and fewer mistakes. We urge most strongly that records of all transactions relating to the Magazine be kept in each Ward and that the Stake Magazine Agent shall know the condition of each Ward in her Stake. Each Agent should be careful and accurate in sending in orders. The Magazine loses a great deal each year because many Agents fail to give the towns where the subscribers live and tell when the subscription should begin. Wise Agents will seek renewals before old subscriptions expire and will be on the alert during the entire year to get as many subscriptions as possible. The time of the Drive will not then be strenuous, but will be a closing up of the year's work, getting as many subscriptions as possible, and sending in the reports.
Devices to increase the subscription list where necessary and where deemed advisable should be thought out early and worked to a successful issue.
Each year Magazine gift subscriptions are increasing, and the last two or three years several have sent in money that subscriptions might go into the mission field. We hope all who reached over 75% last year will go still higher and that those who did not reach this mark will attain it this season. May 1937 far surpass 1936 in subscriptions received! SALESMANSHIP By John D. Spencer HE profession of Salesmanship embraces all of the other professions known in the field of endeavor.
Outside of the field of salesmanship we are at a loss to know of a single occupation or activity or mode of RELIEF SOCIETY CONFERENCE living that is not encompassed by the title of "Salesmanship". One selects the doctor, lawyer, or minister because of the qualities of salesmanship which he possesses. The steps in acquiring this are: first, the Objective. We resolve to be someone in particular, someone out of the commonplace, out of the ordinary, so that people see in us something just a little above the mediocre, and that is a very fine objective, Second, the Slogan—'Do now, no matter how difficult, that which is right." Be discontented, not with what you have, but with what you are. Third, the Challenge.
This is rather an uncomfortable challenge to confront one with—"'Am I the kind of salesman that I would buy the Relief Society Magazine from, and if not, why not?" We have before the class what we call a mirror chart, which indicates the negative and positive qualities that go to make a personality, and the students are asked to face that chart every day. Fourth, Definition.
Salesmanship is the combination of qualities, both natural and acquired, in man which enables him, acting for himself or. As an agent, to negotiate the transfer of something of value for a consideration, on the basis that all parties to the transaction must be benefited. I rather like the Golden Rule element that there is a limitation on all forms of selling.
There are certain processes, and we urge upon you the preparation of all these processes on the theory that this whole selling process is no stronger than its weakest link—appearance, your approach, the arrangement of your sales talk, the knowledge of your article, and a fine warning, this is my own message, knowledge of your article.
Know all about it and vindicate the 311 charge you make for it by the things you know about it.
Loyalty to your article, and that in its broadest scope, is your challenge. You owe something to the institution promoting this fine thing. As you make your talk listen and ask yourself, "Would this talk convert me to the purchase of this Magazine, and if not, why not?"
There is treatment of competition, tactfulness, presentation, and get away. We have established in our class an Eleventh Commandment, “Thou shalt not be grouchy." I beg of you to weigh that and analyze it, and you will find it vindicated 365 days of the year.
Good morning is our greeting.
Make every morning a good morning. You are not properly dressed until you put ona smile. Was everyone happy when you left home this morning, and if not, were you the cause of the unhappiness?
Remember self-complacency kills growth. It is very much easier for a fine salesmani to sell shady goods, than for a shady salesman to sell fine goods. It is said, and there is no guess work about the fact, 70% of the failures to sell are caused by negative personality, and the fault lies wholly within ourselves. Try to put your finger on the thing you could have said. Try to put yourself before the mirror, or the search light, and say "Something was wrong with this sale. It was'not my approach, there is nothing wrong with that, but there is something about me, what is it?" Do you ever stand aside and watch yourselves go by? Do you ever wonder what vibration people got when you said "Good Morning!" or the manner in which you shook hands, or the quality or naturalness of your smile?
There is nothing in salesmanship that can be neglected. 

  Tue BENEFIT OF THE MAGAZINE IN OUR STAKE Josephine Hanks, Union Stake Relief Society President O doubt all of you here present have, at some time, seen a canal with its network of arteries running out in every direction, carrying the life-giving water to the plants and vegetation in the farms and gardens. We can liken our Relief Society Magazine to just such a project. It, too, has a fountain head, and a network of arteries through which it is carried into thousands of homes, and through it comes the spiritual water of life, that which Jesus spoke of at the time He met the woman of Samaria at the well, and asked her for a drink. In Oregon, the rolling hills as well as the lowlands are farmed, and on these far-away farms we have a number of Latter-day Saint families, and the only source of contact these mothers have with the Society, is through the Relief Society Magazine, and when the rare opportunity comes, perhaps once or twice a year, when they can attend meetings, they do not come as strangers, but they are able to take an active part in the lesson discussion, and can talk on the many splendid things that are being accomplished by the Relief Society at home and abroad. Our Agents have been successful in placing the Magazine in a number of non-L. D. S. Homes. Through the faithful efforts of some of our Relief Society sisters, five of the mothers have been converted, and are now active members in the Church. In one of our Wards during the height of our so-called Depression, there were five men out of eightytwo families who had permanent work. The mothers sensed this condition, and they knew if they subscribed to the Magazine for the coming year, and paid their Annual Dues, it was up to them to do something about it. They got busy and put on two splendid entertainments for which they charged a small fee. They had them advertised in the other Wards, and invited their outside friends, and the results were very gratifying indeed. Next they made four beautiful quilts, and one of the mothers having a daughter living in Los Angeles, they disposed of these through her, and realized fifteen or twenty dollars apiece. After they had taken out enough for their Annual Dues and forty-five dollars for Magazine subscriptions, they had a sum left. This splendid piece of work was accomplished through united effort, determination and plenty of hard work.
Amy W. Evans, Chairman HE Quest For Security" offered a most stimulating general theme for this department. President Louise Y. Robison, who is a member of the Utah State Board of Public Welfare, spoke upon "Public Social Security". Mayola Rogers of the Relief Society General Welfare Department discussed “Security and Case Work for The Aged". Harold B. Lee, Chairman of the General Committee, completed the wellrounded program with a very interesting address on "Objectives of the Church Security Plan”. Of all the fears that trouble humanity perhaps the fear of poverty is the most prevalent.
Fortunately for us poverty and happiness are not incompatible; however, we associate closely poverty and misery. We have a great urge for economic security. This has been keenly realized during the past few years as so many have been denied the assurance of work sufficient to supply the bare necessities for existence. In order to provide safeguards against the major misfortunes of life, our Federal Government approved the Social Security Act on August 14, 1935. This Act provides for the following security measures: Unemployment Compensation, Old-Age Assistance and Old-Age Benefits, Security for Children, Aid to the Blind, Extension of Public Health Service, and Vocational Rehabilitation. The States accepting the provisions of this Act must meet the standards of the Federal Government before obtaining Federal funds. A brief explanation of this act may be obtained from your State Welfare Board or from the Social Security Board, Washington, D. C., Information Service, Circular No. 1. Much has been said about financial aid to the aged, but in order to assure a greater degree of happiness for our aged friends we must realize that more must be provided than the bare physical necessities of shelter, food and clothing. More often than not, the aged person needs special medical treatment which, in turn, should be adequately interpreted by one who understands the implications of the deteriorative diseases. 313
The aged person needs to be relieved of worries and fears which seem so simple to us and yet which loom so large in his life. Another great need of most old people is to have someone who can build them up in spirit by listening with genuine interest to recitals of past experiences. Many old people need someone who can restore their faith in youth so they will not feel as if they have been cast aside like "an old shoe". In other words old people need services which go beyond merely handing them a check every month—they need social service. Security for its members, both spiritual and temporal, has been one of the objectives of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from its organization. In order that individuals may gain economic security through their own efforts, and thus preserve their selfrespect and independence, it has been the policy of the Church to start industries, to encourage the development of land for farming and grazing, the raising of farm products and the use of the natural resources of the country. The building of homes, places of recreation and of worship has been a great activity of the Church which has furnished much employment. To meet the present situation of unemployment, the program of the Church is to intensify all these activities and also to create new resources for employment so that the members will still have the opportunity to obtain security through their own work. Ture Work anp Business DEPARTMENT Lalene H. Hart, Chairman PLANNING of 1937-38" was the subject presented by Nettie D. Bradford. The survey of the fine work accomplished was Church-wide in its scope and covered first—A Stake Program for Work and Busi- 314 ness for 1936-37, and second—a Statement of what had been the most successiul plan during the season. Many fine quotations from the reports were included, as suggestions for future plans: Lalene H. Hart presented an outline for a "Project For Every Relief Society Woman". The purpose of this is 'to help women to understand RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE aud to evaluate their own work and their problems". Vivian R. McConkie gave "Work and Business", first—As a Work Day, second—As a Social Day. Leda T. Jensen gave "Better Buymanship"'. Many constructive suggestions were advanced by the Sisters in their able discussions. Details of these will appear in the Magazine later.
CHORISTERS' AND ORGANISTS' DEPARTMENT
