[Vol24 | May 1937 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Happenings Cannon]
Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon
The apple trees are blooming, There's laughter 'long the way, Oh the gladness of May!
MRS. J. BORDEN HARRIMAN, New York and Washington socialite, will be the second woman envoy to a foreign country if she accepts the appointment of Minister to Norway.
LENA MADESEN PHILLIPS expresses disappointment that women are not participating more in statecraft. It is strange, that after the long struggle for suffrage, more women have not come in to high positions. Is it that men are too tenacious of their prerogatives or that after all women are too indifferent? One cabinet member, one minister in the foreign service, one federal judge, a director of the mint, one United States senator, two women governors; that is about all the major positions women have acquired during the seventeen years of suffrage.
MISS ELEANOR RATHBONE and the duchess of Athol, members of the British parliament, are urging a firmer stand by their government against the Italian attitude in Europe and Africa.
A PREMIUM on motherhood has been established by Boris, king of Bulgaria. He has granted suffrage to all married women over twenty-one who have borne children in lawful wedlock.
MRS. EVA MAESER CRANDALL of Utah, is the author of a poetic drama, "John Hafen," depicting the life episodes of this fine artist. The drama was presented at the Springville National Art Show.
QUEEN ELIZABETH has chosen her gown for the Coronation —ivory silk embroidered with gold worked into forms of Tudor roses, thistles, shamrocks, daffodils and lotus blooms, standing for England, Scotland, Ireland, Wales and India, With her robe of royal purple and ermine, she will be a picture of elegance long to be remembered. The little princesses Elizabeth and Margaret will be permitted to wear the purple robe without the ermine.
MRS. LILLIE T. FREEZE, one of Utah's choicest and gifted mothers, died last March. Known as a writer, a missionary among children, a singer of beautiful songs, her spiritual influence brought solace to her legion of friends.
BERTITA HARDING in her latest book, "Golden Fleece," reviews the lives of Franz Joseph and Elizabeth of Austria. This young biographer of the Hapsburgs first won favor with the public through her book, "Phantom Crown," the thrilling story of the ill-fated Maximilian and Carlotta and their Mexican adventure.
CAROLYN WELLS' new novel, "The Mystery of the Tarn," is said by the critics to be as well mixed up a concoction as any Miss Wells has brewed.
GRACE CANDLAND JACOBSEN of Mount Pleasant, Utah, is represented by a poem and brief biography in "American Voices," a new anthology.
A Shrine to Will Rogers
A LITTLE chapel is to be a part of the Will Rogers Shrine of the Sun which is nearing completion on a promontory of famous Cheyenne mountain above Broadmoor hotel, just south of Colorado Springs, Colorado. The Will Rogers chapel and shrine will be everlasting as the mountains and as steadfast as the sun. This beautiful silver shaft stands out—like the man it honors. Its base is imbedded in the backbone of the nation, on the front range of the Rocky Mountains. Its spire kisses the Colorado sky. It is away from the busy world; it affords peace and quiet; it is almost part of God's great mountains; it commands meditation; it is dignified and picturesque, seemingly a link between the early imprints of the famous humorist, and his celestial home. The granite tower, resembling a feudal castle, was conceived and entirely financed by Spencer Penrose, Colorado Springs pioneer and friend of Mr. Rogers. It was designed by Charles E. Thomas and built by Milton J. Strong. The spire is a genuine castle in the air, reached by the "ladder-to-the-sky" Broadmoor-Cheyenne highway which zig-zags up the face of Cheyenne mountain. It contains only materials that will endure. There are no nails and no wood in the construction. More than 5,000 cubic yards of light pink granite was taken from a large single boulder near the memorial, to make the tower walls. By night the shrine will be flood-
lighted as a sparkling gem studded against the velvet of night. From the pinnacle will burn a sodium light with provision for it to shine perpetually. There are four rooms in tier inside the shrine, connected by a spiral stairs leading to an observation alcove on the top. At the base of the 100-foot shaft will be the Will Rogers chapel, which will be open to all mankind. Another of the rooms will be the Will Rogers Memorial room. Mr. Davidson, American sculptor who was a close friend of Mr. Rogers, is now completing an oversize bust of Mr. Rogers, in his Paris studio for the memorial room. Randall Davy, noted Santa Fe artist, is painting the history of the West on the interior walls. The frescoes are arranged so that visitors may follow the, history chronologically by ascending the stairs. Davey will probably do the religious paintings in the chapel before the memorial is dedicated next summer. Thousands have already visited the shrine, which has been under construction for 28 months. Around the shrine is a five-acre sanctuary filled with native Colorado flowers and evergreens. Mr. Rogers has stood on the knoll where the memorial has been built
at the 9,000-foot elevation. Just two miles from the shrine is the base of Pike's Peak, the snow-capped mountain sighted in 1806 by Lieutenant Zebulon M. Pike as he camped with his troops at Port Pueblo, 42 miles to the southeast. Pike and a handful of followers tried to scale the high peak, but they unsuspectingly ascended Cheyenne mountain, discovering their error when they rested on the promontory now marked by the Rogers shrine. Pike told his exhausted troopers that the peak which took his name could never be scaled by man. Its rugged crown is raised above timberline to 14,109 feet. Pike was wrong, because Spencer Penrose, the same man who built the Will Rogers Shrine of the Sun, built the famous cog railroad and the world's automobile highway to the summit of Pike's Peak. The shrine was named "Will Rogers Shrine of the Sun" because it often is shut off from the world when tufts of white clouds float between it and the plains half a mile below. The sharp angles catch the sun's rays, especially in the late afternoon as the sun drops behind the lofty peak, which break the sunlight into spears of crimson which play upon the granite memorial and chapel.
Missionary Centennial
MRS. BERTHA A. KLEINMAN has written a pageant for the Great Britain Missionary Centennial. This will be presented in May following the Coronation in London and perhaps in Preston, England, where the Gospel was first introduced. Mrs. Kleinman has featured the Relief Society in this dramatization, even though it was not organized until five years after the ushering in of the Gospel in that land. We print herewith some excerpts from Mrs. Kleinman's very fine work. President Grant has decided to go to this celebration, and Mrs. Vida Fox Clawson expects to take a large party from the mountain States to celebrate this wonderful event.
THE FIRST FOREIGN MISSION GREAT BRITAIN 1837
To north, to south, to eastward and to west, On crested wave, to earth's remotest isle, Brave envoys bend their mission quest to launch The Message of Salvation to the world. At Truth's exalted lamp they light their flame, The old, the young in sainted retinue— Across the seas to Britain's fair domain And thence to lave a waiting continent. A ripened vineyard ready for the scythe, For Israel's choicest blood is sprinkled there, And in that whited harvest-tide to be Whole nations shall be garnered in a day. Resound ye hills, ye pinnacles and steeples, God of our fathers, List the symphony, Harken ye stars as Zion calls her peoples, To lift their anthemed praises unto Thee! In theme superb the Epic of Salvation Entones its matchless text to all the world, To those who live—to earth's remote creation, To those who die the message is unfurled. Centennial Dawn, O blessed dispensation O Glorious Faith that lights the hearts of men, Encrowned upon the Rock of Revelation The Gospel fullness is restored again!
(As great tableau of the nations is shown, with pageantry moving aside as President Grant mounts among the nations and proclaims his matchless testimony.)
Tableau: The organization of the Relief Society, March 17, 1842. Adaptation of "Daughters of Zion," by ladies chorus.)
In ministry of holy charity, To feed the widowed and the fatherless, To carry solace to the desolate, To ease the pangs of suffering and death— Called he the women of the fold to serve In delegated ranks of sisterhood. Emancipated they to mission fields None but a prophet could inaugurate; Lo! Zion's daughters, chosen and elect, Enfranchised first and foremost of the earth.
MISSION OF THE WOMEN OF THE CHURCH (With anthem —Bertha A. Kleinman.
Relief Society Conference April 2 and 3, 1937
By Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary
THE Annual Conference of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, was held in Salt Lake City, Friday and Saturday, April 2 and 3, 1937. President Louise Y. Robison was in charge. In addition to the Officers' Meeting and two General Sessions, there were five Departments held—the Secretaries', Magazine, Social Welfare, Work and Business, Choristers' and Organists'. The special features were the Reception for Mission and Stake Presidents and Officers, the Mission and Stake Presidents' Breakfast, and an Illustrated Lecture on Abraham Lincoln. The attendance at all meetings was very gratifying and enthusiastic, including representatives from 117
Stakes and 9
Missions. The following was the response to the general roll call: Mission Presidents, 8; Mission Officers, 2; Stake Presidents, 95; Counselors, 126; Secretaries, 81; Board Members, 422; making a total attendance of 734. The music for all sessions was especially good. The Relief Society Singing Mothers, under the capable leadership of Charlotte O. Sackett, were assisted by Professor Frank W. Asper at the organ, Alta B. Cassity at the piano, and William M. Hardiman with the violin. The soloists were, Margaret Summerhays, Margaret S. Hewlett. There were also the fine contributions of organ music by Adeline R. Ensign, and duets by Brother and Sister Stewart McMaster, and Richard Keddington and Dorothy Kimball. The Reception for General, Mission and Stake Officers, held in the Hotel Utah, was a thoroughly delightful event, and offered an opportunity for Relief Society members from all parts to meet, make new acquaintances and renew old ones. A special feature was the illustrated lecture on Abraham Lincoln by Dr. George W. Middleton. This was a most valuable climax to the study in Literature of the life of a great National hero,
THE Presidents' Breakfast, held at the historic Lion House, was one of the very pleasant features of the Conference. The Presidency and General Board gratefully acknowledge the beautiful flowers sent by the North Sevier Stake. The ushers for the different meetings were kindly furnished by the following Stakes: Ensign, 'Highland, Liberty, Pioneer, Salt Lake and Wells.
OFFICERS' MEETING OFFICIAL INSTRUCTIONS President Louise Y. Robison
THE General Board is offering a new service to you at this Conference. To relieve you from taking notes, we have prepared, and will send to your home address a synopsis of the program of each of the Department Meetings. Division of Responsibility: There seems to be a misunderstanding about the responsibility of Counselors in some of the Stakes and Wards. Only a short time ago we met two fine, intelligent Counselors who were discouraged because they knew nothing of the Stake President's plans for Relief Society work. In another Stake the division was made too well. The President and each of the Counselors had special work, but they never held meetings to discuss their plans which would enable them to coordinate the work. Years ago we asked to have a division of responsibility. The Presidents—Stake and Ward—are to have supervision of the Teachers and all Welfare work. They may have an Aid or Welfare Worker, but the President should be consulted and help make plans for persons or families in need of assistance. Each Counselor—Stake and Ward—should be given a definite department of the work to supervise and develop. The Counselor best fitted for the educational work, either first or second counselor, should be given this department,. While the other Counselor would have charge of the sewing and handwork department. THE Presidency should meet together frequently, where plans should be freely discussed and suggestions made. Relief Society Funds: Six months ago, we tried to emphasize the ruling that all money collected by Relief Society Visiting Teachers must be turned into the Charity Account, and used only for charity. We are sorry if this has worked a hardship on any Society, but we feel this to be the proper procedure, and in all kindness ask you to live strictly to this ruling. Reports have reached us that some of the Stakes use Annual Dues for purposes other than strengthening Relief Society in the Stake. Annual Dues must not be used to make donations for any oth-
er purpose, no matter how worthy the cause. It is not to be used in building or furnishing meeting houses, for contributions to Community Chests, War Veterans, nor for parties or gifts where only Stake Board members are benefited. It can legitimately be used in defraying expenses of Board Members in their official visits to Wards, in attending Relief Society General Conference, in entertaining Ward Officers and Ward Workers when such gatherings are necessary for giving instructions and stimulating interest in Relief Society work. Where there is a surplus it can be used in helping the weaker Wards carry their responsibility. It may interest you to know that not one cent of the Annual Dues, which you send to us, is spent in entertainment or gifts of any kind. It is used entirely for traveling expenses of General Board Members, in visiting Stakes and Missions, and for the literature and correspondence to the Stakes and Missions. If you have revenue from Stake parties, pageants or bazaars, that money may be used for any purpose you choose, but Annual Dues are for one purpose only— building up Relief Society. Transients: A heavy burden is placed on our people in California by residents of Utah, Idaho, Wyoming and other States, who, without sufficient money, go to California expecting to find employment. California Stakes have their own to care for, and it is unjust to add to the load they are already carrying. California is a beautiful place in which to live when we have the means to pay for the sunshine, but I imagine that even the sunshine did not bring great joy to a young couple who had not eaten for two or three days, and who made their wants known on the day their rent was due. Counties, outside the one in
which we have legal residence, are not responsible for our needs. Will you sisters impress upon the people of your communities to be quite sure there is employment in other places before leaving the County in which they reside.
