[Vol24 | May 1937 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Edward P. Merrill]
Then came the great one, and with him came Hazel and Marion and Ted and Don. And we found that he was human, and we opened our hearts to him and his family. His warm, colorful personality melted away our timorous trepidations and we came to love him like a brother. To us all he was soon genial Ed. Kimball. But we found him greater than we had even expected; we found him great in artistry, great in ability, great in faith, great in enthusiasm, great in companionship, great in humility, and great in service. In his work here he daily exemplified the implied suggestion that "He that would be greatest among you, let him be the servant of all." And the Relief Society, as well as all the other organizations in the Branch, can testify with grateful appreciation of his helpful service to them. INSTEAD of a single set of abilities and talents, as have many artists, we soon found that Ed had four, and we became convinced that in all the world he was the one best selection for the important position he held among us. Not only was he a capable and accomplished musician, but he was as well a fluent and entertaining speaker, a lovable and cordial mixer among his fellowmen, and an experienced, practical man of affairs particularly qualified to be the Director of this imposing building with its technical and intricate apparatus. The immaculate condition of this chapel after three and a half years of daily use bears glowing testimony to his efficient and painstaking efforts in supervising its care and upkeep.
282 LITTLE children loved him, young people loved him, and the older ones loved and admired him for his talents and abilities. Our hearts have been indeed saddened this week. The large audience that assembled here on Tuesday, that filled the choir seats and the chapel, that crowded the recreation hall, and that overflowed on to the stage, bore eloquent tribute to the love and respect that Edward P.
Kimball had won among us. Not alone were members of our Church there, but others as well—fellow Rotarians and friends and admirers. And though the appeal was so sweetly sung to "Dry Those Tears," those assembled found it difficult or impossible to comply. FROM the mountains came to us this choice spirit; to the mountains its tabernacle has returned for interment. Ed, our friend and pal, has gone, and we shall see him no more in all our journeys through the rest of this life. But though he is gone he is not forgotten, nor ever will he be, as long as memory lives.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
His personality still lingers among us—his smile, his joviality, his enthusiasm, his lively ways. And from | every room in this well-kept building and from the beautiful grounds without its colorful walls comes to us his cheery voice. MY FRIENDS, his message to us tonight is, carry on, do your best, go forward. He would have this program conducted as though nothing tragic had just happened. Therefore, let the strains of sweet music resound, from both voice and instrument.
Magic refrains will arise out of the depths of our emotions as we this night appreciate the excellent performance rendered for our entertainment. And as we derive spiritual benefit from the renditions we shall also receive ennoblement of soul as we recall our associations with Edward P. Kimball, the glorious work he did, and the mission he so effectively filled.
