Thursday came and Retta marked the place cards and matched the silver, all the time thinking how Ed had offered to come early ED'S DELUSION 541 in order to help her stage the dear little pantomime. He had stressed this promise and how she counted on it! _The first arrivals at the party were Nell and Walter. Such early comers they! Was it to their credit to be so punctual, Retta wondered. A few minutes later Phyllis and Ralph, John and Margaret, and Louis and Helen arrived in Ralph's car. Such a merry bunch! Their laughter echoed through the room as they chatted in gay confusion., Herman next. He came alone. How genially he bowed to the assembled guests. Retta welcomed him warmly, all the time feeling what a slight return was her hospitality compared with the great way in which he had befriended Ed. A sudden summer shower seemed to hasten the arrival of the other guests. Retta was greeting them one and all, when an agitated voice whispered in her ear. 'Land sakes, child, why don't you have your company set up to the table?" "Is it time to eat, Polly?" "Time to eat! Why child, I've been standin' ready to dish the victuals the last half hour. The dinner will spoil if you wait much longer." "We'll commence at once," said Retta, glancing at her watch. "You're right, Polly. We are half an hour late. I'll have them seated presently." Once more Retta stepped onto the porch and looked up the street. Ed wasn't in sight. "How can I lead out at this dinner without Ed? Won't it look awkward for a hostess at a formal dinner party to be without "Come on, Retta. Don't delay the dinner," called out Polly. A bright idea entered Retta's mind. She walked over to Herman.:, In a moment it was arranged and Herman was seated beside the hostess. No sooner had dinner commenced than the phone rang. "Ed insists on speaking to you," said Retta's aunt. So the young hostess, much perplexed, left her guests. "Hello, Retta. This you?" came in loud, garrulous tones from Ed. "Say, Retta, is it tomorrow or next day that your party's coming off? Is that so? Well, I've got it all mixed up. Why didn't I make a note of it? Confound the luck." So selfish and unapologetic was Ed that Retta hung up the receiver with a bang. How it relieved her feelings that the telephone was in Grandma's room, two doors from the dining room. No one had heard a word. She would dismiss the affair from. Her mind and try, with Herman's aid, to make a complete success of the evening. 542 - RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE But in a few moments the phone rang again and Aunt Louise, covered with embarrassment, summoned Retta the second time to leave her guests. "Retta," said Ed, "I'm all ready but I can't find my car. It's, lot in the garage. What am Ito do? Oh, say, that reminds me,.. [ believe I left it in Newel's front yard. Yes, I've been out for a lark with Newel. Great time we had! Say, Retta, I'll be there - after a while. I'll go and get?" "Never mind, Ed. Never mind. Don't hurry, whatever you - do." Thus finishing the conversation, Retta calmed her inner feelings as best she could and brightened her face with a forced' smile as she returned to the table. She found her guests laughing merrily. "You missed a fine story," whispered Ralph. Herman soon told another one equally good. As the dinner progressed Retta felt relieved and glad. She resolutely pushed into the background her dismay concerning Ed, and determined to be gay and gracious to all. Instead of the pantomime, Retta asked Herman to introduce a Swiss folk dance. It's novelty charmed the dancers and they repeated it again and again from sheer delight. Ad On viewless wings the hours passed, and at last, when nearly everyone had gone home, Herman lingered by the door to bid his charming hostess goodbye. His look was eloquence itself as he said in his simple way, "Retta, you've been more than kind to me tonight." Peering at Retta and Herman from a car parked near the front yard, was a darkly frowning face. "So the withered hand is going to reach out and take Retta away from me?" growled Ed under his breath. "I'll wait for him on the corner of Center and First West, and when I get his eye, I'll make his duty clear to him.". So Ed watched for Herman on the corner. An appalling traffic jam, yet he was easily identified pacing along with the. Others. A rumbling truck rounding the corner?a mother's anguished scream for her child, and then Ed saw Herman leap in front of the truck, snatch the baby boy and hurl him toward his mother. It was all over within the twinkling of an eye. A huge policeman stooped and gathered Herman tenderly in his arms. * "Here! Here!" cried Ed. "Bring him to my car. I'll see that he's taken care of." Half an hour later, Herman lay with bandaged head in a clean, white hospital cot. Ed hovered over him with ceaseless vigilance.; "I guess I'm pretty much done for," said Herman to Ed. ED'S DELUSION 543 "Oh, you'll be better soon," said Ed, although he knew full well the hopelessness of Herman's condition. "In case I'm not, I'd like you to take a message to your sweetheart for me." "Tell me, Herman." "She's one person to whom I'm willing to explain the cause of my afflicted right hand." "Yes, Herman, go on if you can," whispered Ed. "It came about through an accident acquired at my birth." "At your birth?" "Yes, Ed. The doctor, though a good man, had a notion that drinking a little wine once in a while wouldn't hurt him. The night I was born this doctor had attended a wine wedding. He left the wedding and came directly to my mother's bedside unfit for his serious task. In ushering me into the world, he somehow did permanent injury to my right hand. I've really never cared to speak of it to anyone, but Retta wished to know for herself. So just tell her that it was all through the mistake of a good man who thought that a little wine once in a while wouldn't hurt him." There was silence in the room for many moments, broken at length by a low sob from Ed. "Ts that all I'm to tell her, Herman?" "Yes, Ed." And in that moment Ed knew, by the invincible surmise of his soul, that the withered hand had reached out and saved him from himself.