Fowler Three million persons is the number authoritatively given as the average sick list for this country. To this number, I judge that we could conservatively add as many more who are somewhat ailing, but are still "holding down" jobs or attending to daily work; not sick enough to go to bed, yet dare not. Stop work. Many of them cannot afford either to say or to think they are out of health. Thus, 6,000,000 people in the United States are not enjoying good health. Placing our population at 150,000,000, which: perhaps is high, and allowing the usual five to the family, gives 30,000,000 families affected by lack of health. Do you see what this means? As we count homes along any street, city, or country, every fifth house or apartment contains a person suffering from some kind of ill health. To draw a pessimistic picture is useless unless it leads us to face the facts?with a remedy in view. Wise men tell' us that the first step in solving a problem is to face the facts, however disagreeable. Ly The net of man's experience since the dawn of history, shows him that while his body is a marvelously tough machine, adjustable and adaptable to an amazing degree, yet it is in some respects a delicate mechanism. Nature has had a hard task to develop a body that will withstand all the conditions to which some people subject themselves. In the second place, there are hereditary tendencies to certain physical weaknesses in some human beings, accentuated by a low state of health of the mother during the period of gestation. So there are two good reasons why a few common-sense health habits cannot be ignored without paying the price. The price is as fearful as our opening paragraph suggests. How we pay and when, was suggested to the writer by the large number of people we hear complaining of some chronic physical ill in middle life. That it is then, for many of them, too late to act, redoubles the tragedy of it. There is one time for every parent to think this thing through and to get ready to guide each child away from the dark, grey road these six million travel. That is before the child's birth. The best time for health-habit forming is from birth to school age. Since much of it is left to the schools, the kindergarten teacher must begin on it at once, by simple HEALTH WORK IN THE SCHOOLS. 545 "health chores", which are expanded somewhat as the learner goes from grade to grade. What these simple "health chores" are is common knowledge to parents. If carrying-them out as a program equaled this knowledge, this article never would have come to a publisher's desk. Some parents have for years had a close view of the Modern Crusaders' Health Chores for children, for the reason that some school districts have been guided by superintendents with a clear vision of what is of first value to school children and with moral courage to make this health work really "fasten upon" the pupils' minds. In the hands of each eight-year-old is placed a score card, with his name on it, which really represents an expansion of the program of simple health practices given to six-year-olds or to five-year-olds. The card looks like this, with spaces added at the right for the record of four weeks: Daily Chores 1. I washed my hands before each meal today. 2. I brushed my teeth thoroughly. 3. I tried hard to keep fingers and pencils out of my mouth and nose. 4. I carried a clean handkerchief. 5. I drank three glasses of water, but no tea nor coffee. 6. I tried to eat only wholesome food including vegetables and fruit. 7. I drank slowly two glasses of milk. 8. I went to toilet at regular time. 9. I played outdoors or with windows open a half hour. 10. I was in bed eleven or more hours last night, windows open. 11. I had a complete bath on each day of the week that is checked (x). Total number each day
Each morning the child scores himself for yesterday. Teacher and parents survey his scoring. The program widens each year till the sixth grade is finished or till these "chores" are confirmed as habits.
In Grade Five the score card reads thus:
Daily Chores
1. Besides my hands, I washed my face, ears, and neck. I combed or brushed my hair today.
2. I cleaned my teeth after breakfast and the evening meal, brushing front, back, and chewing surfaces of all teeth.
3. I did not use a "common" cup or towel. I coughed or spit only when necessary and was careful to protect others.
 
4. I was careful to keep myself and my desk neat, and helped keep the whole school and grounds in order.
5. I drank four glasses of water and no tea, coffee, nor any harmful drinks. I did not wash my food down.
6. I chewed my food thoroughly, ate slowly and did not run soon after meals.
7. I ate either some beans, eggs, cheese, fish or meat at one meal. I ate watery vegetables or fruit.
8. I attended to toilet at my regular time, and washed my hands afterwards.
9. I tried to keep good posture and to breathe fresh air always, through my nose.
10. I was in bed ten or more hours last night, windows open. I stretched out "long" when waiting for sleep.
11. I took a full bath on each day of the week that is checked (x). I put on clean underwear at least once this week. Total number each day
Now comes the test as to whether the children are going to "grow into" life-time habits that bring steady health and zest for life, or whether these health seeds fall on stony ground. That test is: Does the teacher in every school room of those tender grades make a daily check-up of each pupil's score card and let it be known by all that she makes such checkup? If that is done and done through the early years, the child grows into a natural, common-sense way of living, which steers him away from the physical ills that bite so deeply into middle age. When these few simple health practices are confirmed as habits in the youngster, he or she attends to them automatically and even experiences distress of mind if something blocks the way, if only for once, of doing one of them. And since they come to be attended to automatically, there is no danger of ailments that arise from turning the mind back upon the bodily organs. It is often so turned in middle life, when a carelessly treated body, beginning to protest, painfully fights back.
The teacher's daily check-up of these "health chores" is vitalized and reinforced by frequent discussions with her class of the whys and wherefores of each point in them. With stories, poster-making, games and dramatizations, she amplifies in interesting style and popularizes the whole matter. Individual examinations of children by the school nurse, and the correction of their defects by a physician when her findings reveal it necessary, is the other wing of the bluebird of physical happiness.
For a school head to engineer a program like this takes both vision and moral courage.