There are 27 members of this organization, the picture of which appears, and 26 out of the 27 are subscribing for
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 557
the Magazine. "We are happy to have the Book of Mormon for the theology lessons next season, and feel that it will help us greatly in the missionary work. Members of the various Relief Societies are planning to read the Book of Mormon during their vacation. The Kelso, Washington, Relief Society is offering a prize of a year's subscription to the Relief Society Magazine, to the first sister finishing the reading of the Book of Mormon."
Northern States Mission
News from still another one of our progressive missions: Sister Allie Y. Pond writes: "On July 28, we had a conference with four of our districts at Nauvoo, Illinois. It was a wonderful gathering?something I shall never forget."
Throughout this mission the benefit of the Relief Society to young mothers has been stressed.
YOUNG MOTHERS University Branch, Northern States Mission
"The enclosed picture is a photograph of the young mothers, and is evidence that the efforts of the leaders in this branch have been most successful."
Juab Stake
On June 25, 1929, with appropriate exercises in the tabernacle, the Juab stake commemorated the organization of the Relief Society. Members from all parts of the stake and General Board representatives were in attendance.
 
A movement is now actively under way to exterminate the flies in this community. The campaign is sponsored by the Juab stake Relief Society. A committee consisting of Mrs. Itha B. Parkes and Mrs. Ethel C. Gadd, has taken the responsibility of having fly traps made and sold to the citizens at a minimum cost. With the assistance of the Boy Scouts, a number of effective traps have been constructed, and it is planned to have enough to supply all the homes of the city. As an indication of the interest and support of the citizens in this movement, at the initial display of the trap, orders were given for the entire supply now ready for distribution. The campaign to rid the community of flies is meeting with gratifying cooperation from citizens in all walks of life.
Lehi Stake
On July 9, 1929, under the direction of the Lehi stake Relief Society, an enthusiastic group of sisters met at the Lehi Fifth ward chapel to celebrate the stake's first birthday. A program, excellent in drama and music, was provided. An outstanding feature of the afternoon was a history given of the Lehi Relief Society, beginning with its temporary organization in 1865, up to the present time. A cut glass vase full of choice roses was presented to eleven of the fourteen surviving members of the permanent organization, effected October 27, 1867, under the direction of Sisters Eliza R. Snow and Sarah Kimball. A color scheme of white and gold was carried out. After luncheon an exhibit of the handwork done by the Relief Society members was opened for the public.
Sunflowers By Kate Thomas
Down on West Temple just above Third South In some garage place there's a bunch of gold That gleams as fair as any pirates' hoard Grilled on the rock of any barren isle.
Sunflowers! Sunflowers! Happy yellow things Flirting with gay old Sol; bowing to his whims As lord of day and flattering his conceit, But never caring really; just glad.
There with the line of junk shops, dirty bricks, (The moulders of a city seldom know The glory of a street they let run down!) They send their broad smile through the smoke and filth.
One could not pass without an answering smile, Oh, truly, sunflowers know just where to grow.
Guide Lessons for December
LESSON 1
Theology and Testimony. (First Week in December)
BOOK OF MORMON
Lesson 3: TEACHINGS OF JACOB, LEHI'S SON
1. This lesson, which centralizes thought and discussion on the teachings of Jacob, son of Lehi, covers the Book of Mormon from page 70, chapter 5, to page 106, chapter 25.
I. Narrative.
1. The colony divides into (a) Nephites, and (b) Lamanites.
2. Conditions of Nephites. (a) Distance (many days). (b) From tents to buildings. (c) Temple for worship. (d) Industries. (e) Religious life.
II. Doctrines Taught (chapters 9, 10).
1. The resurrection. (a) It is literal. (b) It has been taught often.
2. The Atonement of Christ. (a) Jesus is to appear among Jews. (b) Christ is God. (c) Resurrection is universal as the fall. (d) Atonement must be "infinite"; that is, divine.
3. The Spirit of Man. (a) There is a human spirit. (b) Spirit without a body subject to devil. (c) Spirit knows guilt or innocence after resurrection. (d) After resurrection men are "righteous" or "filthy" still.
4. Qualities of God. (a) Righteousness. (b) Mercy. (c) Justice.
5. Woes pronounced upon. (a) The "learned" in things of this world only. (b) The rich in things of this world only.
 
(c) The deaf as to things of God. (d) The blind as to things of God. (e) The liar. (f) Those who "commit whoredom." (g) The idolators. 6. Invitation to come to Christ.
2. The words of Jacob, found especially in chapters 9 and 10, constitute a very remarkable exposition of doctrines, one of the finest we have in any sacred book. Also it is remarkable in some of its ways of putting these teachings. To summarize its ideas, we have there the idea that there is a human spirit distinct from the body; that this spirit will, after death, be reunited with the body literally; that Jesus Christ is God and will offer himself for sin; that the atonement must be by some divine person in order to be efficacious; that God has devised a "plan" for the salvation of man, through which are shown His mercy, justice, and goodness; that this plan is free to all, "without money and without price;" that things of the spirit are not to be known through human learning, but only through revelation.
Jacob is here speaking not from information derived from reading books, but from absolute knowledge derived from experience. He says himself that an angel appeared to him and taught him divine things, and Nephi tells us that "Jacob also has seen him [the Lord] as I have seen him." Here then is the unadulterated testimony of one who is a witness of the things concerning which he speaks.
In these days when everybody thinks himself competent to speak of spiritual matters?heaven and hell, angels and devils, the human soul and immortality, God and Jesus Christ?too much emphasis cannot be placed on this matter of the source of knowledge of divine things. For there is a distinction between what we experience and what we read, between mere information and knowledge. When a person has experienced religious truth, he is competent to talk about religious truth, and not otherwise. This would rule out such persons as Clarence Darrow, Luther Burbank, and others when they tell us that there is no human spirit or a future world, because they are telling us what they think, not what they know through experience. And this distinction cannot be called to the attention of our younger generation too often. Because a man is an authority in law or biology or what not is no reason why his utterances are of any value on religion.
3. One of the chapters quoted in the lesson from the Prophet Isaiah includes that oft-repeated phrase about "beating swords into plowshares and spears into pruning hooks." Professor Moulton says about this passage in Isaiah in its whole setting: "Quite apart from any question of theology, it may be said that no more precious legacy of thought has come down to us from antiquity than
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 561
this Hebrew conception of a golden age to come. It is difficult to overestimate the bracing moral influence of an ideal future. The classical thought of Greece and Rome took an opposite course; their age of gold was in the remote past, the progress of time was a decline, and the riches of philosophy claimed to be no more than a precious salvage. The result was the moral paralysis of fatalism, or at best individualism. The imaginative pictures of Biblical prophecy inspire spiritual energy by bringing a future to work for, and, on the other hand, the weakness of a luxurious optimism is avoided in the writings of an author who, while he puts forth all his powers to exalt the future, insists always that the only way of entrance to this future is the forcible purging out of evil."?Introduction to Isaiah in the Modern Reader's Bible.
4. Of the thirty-five pages covered by the present lesson, twenty-one pages are quoted from Isaiah. The passages quoted are almost identical with those by that Prophet in our English Bible. Nephi and Jacob both, it seems, laid great store by Isaiah's writings, as also did our Savior when he visited the Nephites, after his resurrection. Nephi excuses himself for quoting so much from Isaiah by saying that "whoso of my people shall see these words, may lift up their hearts for all men," thus expressing exactly the same idea of "a bracing moral influence" just quoted from Professor Moulton. In all, sixteen chapters are thus included complete in the two Books of Nephi, besides isolated passages here and there. And Jesus in his personal ministry among the Nephites quotes one chapter, with the introductory clause, "Great are the words of Isaiah."
It appears that the mind of the average Nephite struggled as much as the average modern mind in its endeavor to understand the writings of the Prophet Isaiah. For Nephi explains that "Isaiah spoke many things which were hard for many of my people to understand." And he tells us why they found them hard to comprehend. It was because, having for the most part been born after Lehi and his party had left Jerusalem, "they knew not concerning the manner of prophesying among the Jews." This is the reason, in the main, why we also find the old prophets difficult, especially Isaiah. For one thing, the prophets were always more or less dramatic, as when Jeremiah went about the streets of Jerusalem with a common yoke on his neck to show his countrymen that the Babylonish king would take them captive. And for another thing, they often spoke of the future as if it were present, as when Isaiah, more than six hundred years before the event, says concerning Christ, "He is despised and rejected of men."
It is interesting also to note the striking difference between such a prophet as Isaiah and the Nephite writers when their proph-
 
ecies concern the same thing. Both Isaiah and Jacob, for instance, speak of the coming and the earthly ministry of Christ. But the language of the Hebrew prophet is highly figurative and imaginative, even poetic, while that of the Nephite is couched in homely, plain, understandable phrases, such as one person would use to another. The result is greater clarity in the latter, but greater beauty in the former. That is why the writings of Isaiah are prized today, for their expression almost as much as for their substance. It may, of course, be that this difference is due in part to the languages in which these two men wrote, but it was due most likely in the greater part to what Nephi calls "the manner of prophesying."
5. Recurring to the thought that Jacob is an expert in things of the spirit, we ought to add another thought in this lesson. It has become fashionable in certain quarters in our times to deny the existence of a personal devil, of angels, of a personal God even, as well as of a human spirit as a thing of itself. The best answer to such a teaching is to set beside these negative ideas, which admittedly have no basis at all in a spiritual experience, the very positive ideas of Jacob and men like him, who experienced the things they talk about. Experience is the only way in which we can really know anything. This has been said before, but it can hardly be said too often in days like ours when those who have no experience in spiritual matters talk as glibly and as loudly about religion as those who have had such experience. How then can a person without that experience expect to be seriously listened to when he tells us that there is no such being as a personal devil, or a personal God, or angels, or another life? The idea itself is negative, and you cannot of necessity experience what does not exist. About all one can really say in the situation is that one does not believe in these things; one cannot by any possibility know that they do not exist. Compare with this the absolute knowledge of Jacob in the text. He knew because he had experienced. He had seen God, he had been visited by angels, he had felt the power of the Holy Ghost. It was not guesswork with him, it was not a conjecture, nor the result of the reasoning processes; it was a knowledge based on experience. This knowledge any one can obtain for himself, just as Jacob received it. Indeed, Nephi makes a point of this. He had tried to get all his brothers to go to the Lord for confirmation of their father's visions, as he, Nephi, had done. And Jacob had followed Nephi's advice, and received knowledge direct from God.
QUESTIONS
1. What was the cause of division in the colony of Lehites? Tell some of the results of this division to both sections.
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 563
2. Why is this text (chapters 9, 10) so remarkable? Who was Jacob? How did he get his knowledge of the things he spoke about?
3. What does he say of the human spirit, of the resurrection, of the atonement, of God, of the cost of salvation? What is meant by the term "plan" as applied to salvation? Does salvation cost anything?
4. What is the difference between "information" and "knowledge?" How do men obtain knowledge of spiritual truth? Why don't people have a right to speak of spiritual things when they have not had spiritual experience? Apply this thought to the scholars of our own day.
Give the substance of the quotation from Professor Moulton concerning Isaiah. Can you think of any ideas taught by our Church that furnish such a moral stimulus by looking forward? How can this forward look -be made more powerful in our lives today? 6. Contrast the teachings of the text and the ideas. That prevail today on the topics mentioned there. On what grounds would you place your preference for the Book of Mormon teachings respecting these points? LESSON II Work and Business (This topic is to be given at the special teachers' meeting the first week in December ) TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR DECEMBER: REVERENCE AND RESPECT. I. Reverence for God and-respect for worthiness in mankind are prerequisites for progress and perfection. ~ Real life rises no higher than the hah We. Grow like what we revere. II. Reverence is an unconditional fealty to some one completely worthy of respect and love. "It is an affection, a love, as positive, real, warm and imperative in its demands for activity, as the parental instinct." It is best expressed in prayer and service. III. Respect is a just regard for the worth of self and others.  It is the power of discerning and taking delight in what is beautiful in visible form, and lovely in human character; and, necessarily, striving to produce what is beautiful in form and to become what is lovely in character?Ruskin. It is best expressed in a clean personal life and in tolerance and sympathy for mankind. IV. Reverence and respect can be cultivated throughout life. Small children learn reverence and respect through learning obedience; being great imitators, they follow the example set by their elders. Adolescents are influenced chiefly by ideals worthy of reverence and respect. Adolescence is the period of hero-worship. Adults can cultivate reverence and respect in adolescents (1) by service to worthy causes, and (2) by themselves showing greater veneration for established customs and beliefs. V. Reverence and respect are part of our civic, religious, and personal life. Reverence is the chief joy and power of life?reverence for what is pure and bright in your own youth; for what is true and tried in. The age of others; for all that is gracious among the living, great among the dead and marvelous in the powers that cannot die.?Ruskin, The preamble to the Declaration of Independence recognizes a "decent respect for the opinions of mankind." Bacon says, "Cleanness of body was ever deemed to proceed from a due reverence to God." VI. Reverence and respect will lead to: Development of personality by emulation of high ideals. Support of worthy laws and customs. Tolerance and sympathy for humankind. Greater faith and satisfaction in obeying the laws of God. Copies of A Son of the Middle Border are now available at $1.00 each, postpaid. Orders should be addressed to Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. The lesson outline on A Son of the Middle Border is scheduled to appear in the November number of the Magazine. GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 565 LESSON III Literature (Third Week in December) AN AMERICAN IDYLL By Cornelia Stratton Parker Cornelia Stratton Parker, author of An American Idyll, was born in Oakland, California, September 1, 1885. She took her A, B. Degree from the University of California in 1907. She later did post-graduate work at the same university and at the University of Washington. In 1907 she married Carleton Hubbell Parker, who died March 17, 1918. They had three children, Carleton Hubbell, James Stratton, and Alice Lee. In 1919 Mrs. Parker moved, to New York, where she worked in factories in order to write for Harper's magazine articles on the factory worker. She also lectured on labor problems. In 1923-26 she went to Europe and lived in Geneva, Switzerland. She has written a number of interesting articles and books. Among these are: An American Idyll, 1919; ? Working with the Working Women, 1922; Ports and Happy Places, 1924; Jenny the Joyous, 1924, and other similar things. Her address is 140 Broadway, New York City. When Cornelia Stratton Parker set about the business of writing "The Life of Carleton H. Parker," her husband, which has been entitled An American Idyll, she did it, she says, because something within her urged her to it. She felt that the world, most of all their children, should know him from the many sides which made him, in her opinion, unique among men. At that time Cornelia Parker probably did not know that she was giving to the world the annals of an idyllic love which would so catch the imagination of the American people that the book would run through many editions. In this little book she has given to her readers a love story so sweet, so intimate, so true, that she has transcended fiction, proving that true romance does exist in the world of fact as well as in the world of fancy. A writer in The Chicago Evening Post wrote of the volume? "If you admire strong men and true; if you enjoy biography, if you like love stories, if naivete appeals to you, if a tale of happiness well told brings you pleasure, then this book belongs on your reading list. It is a book I have heard recommended a dozen times, but no one has been able to describe its charm or fascination." One year after the death of her husband, when success had crowned their labors and the world seemed theirs, Cornelia began the outpouring of this story of idyllic courtship and married life. 566 ' RELIEF.. SOCIETY MAGAZINE She seems to have opened the flood-gates of memory and to have allowed her soul to pour out through her pen into this little book. The story is so intimate that. One can easily understand Mrs. Parker's feelings when she learned that four thousand copies of her biography were to. Be issued by the Atlantic Monthly Press. "At that, I came down to earth with a thud," says she. "Four thousand people reading the very inner experiences of our lives! Why it was like these nightmares people have of appearing unclad in public. It was terrible. I had longed to pass on and perpetuate for a few the personality of a great man I knew and loved. But four thousand people?of that number so many would not understand, so many would lose the beauty and helpfulness I wanted to consecrate in the feeling that such things never should have been shared with others." Yet I believe she was right. Thousands will read, will understand, and will be helped by this idyllic companionship of a man and a woman. Somebody has said that words are little buckets which come up full of the feeling in the heart of the writer. Mrs. Parker's words came up full, indeed.: Here, again, we have a biography written by one who loved deeply. Therefore, we. See, naturally, only the Carleton Parker that his wife idolized. Occasionally she hints briefly of criticism others made of him; but before the criticism is really voiced, she rushes to his defense. In that, of course, as a biography, the book is faulty. The reader knows only one side of Carleton Parker: though, it is true, that is a fine, big, beautiful side. One wonders as he reads if the book does not reveal Mrs. Parker as fully as it does her husband, and if she, herself, isn't worthy of close acquaintanceship. Few wives would have taken the gambler's chances she did at the behest of the best of husbands. The wife, eager to preserve her husband's fame as a sociologist and a mediator, quotes occasionally from some of his papers; but it will not go. The reader hastens through to closing quotes, eager to see again the lover-husband.: If an idyll is 'a little picture," or if it is a naive, simple, pastoral love story, then in their case this is an idyll, for it surely is a little picture and just as surely it is a simple naive love story. Mrs. Parker makes no attempt to organize her. Subject matter, but seems to carry on the narrative in a chronological order much as the incidents must have come to her. One can hardly believe that such a courtship as is described in chapter three could have occurred in so short a time ago. It is refreshing to learn that a young lady can be courted on $10.25 or "any other cheap figure," and that she can enjoy such a courtship. Carleton H. Parker must, indeed, have been of unusual clay or else?Mrs.. Carleton Parker was. " GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 567 Chapter fifteen is especially delightful and might well be read by every married couple. It is the very idyll of the idyll. Few people have learned to live so well, for few people can so follow their hearts without wondering what the neighbors will say about them. Yes, the book has charm. The language is simple, direct, but full of feeling. It is as fresh and unconventional as the lives of the two young people it describes. In fact, Mrs. Parker breaks a number of rules of grammar and rhetoric occasionally?thank goodness?but always in the interest of charm. Through the medium of this romantic chronicle we come to know two genuine people?democrats of the first water?who will no doubt be of great help to us in freeing ourselves from some oi the tinsel with which we have gauded up our lives. According to this narrative, Cornelia Stratton met Carleton H. Parker on the campus of the University of California, September 3, 1903. He was a senior, she a freshman. Their acquaintanceship soon ripened into love, and they became engaged; but owing to lack of funds and her father's hesitancy about giving consent for his daughter to marry a young man with no particular prospects, they did not marry until after her graduation. The ceremony took place September 7, 1907. Carl Parker, like many young college men, had tried all sorts of work and had begun upon many careers before he finally found his niche. The two had dreamed of a honeymoon in Idaho, but lack of funds and lack of time shattered their dream. Instead they hired two old horses and a buckboard and went for a three weeks' trip up the Rogue River in southern Oregon. The comradarie of that honeymoon is typical of their short married life. For that reason I shall quote a paragraph., "That honeymoon! Lazy horses poking unprodded along an almost deserted mountain road; glimpses of the river lined with autumn reds and yellows; camp made toward evening in any spot that looked appealing?and all spots looked appealing; two fish-rods out; consultation as to flies; leave-taking for half an hour's parting, while one went up the river to try his luck, one down. Joyous reunion, with much luck or little luck, but always enough for supper: trout rolled in cornmeal and fried, corn on the cob just garnered from a willing or unwilling farmer that afternoon, cornbread?the most luscious corn-bread in the world, baked camper-style by the man of the party?and red, red apples, eaten by two people who had waited four years for just that. Evenings in a sandy nook by the river's edge, watching the stars come out above the water. Adventures, such as losing Chocolada, the brown seventy-eight-year-old horse, and finding her up to her neck in a deep stream running through a grassy meadow with perpendicular banks  on either side. We walked miles till we found a farmer. With the aid of himself and his tools, plus a stout rope and a tree, in an afternoon's time we dug and pulled and hauled and yanked Chocolada up and out onto dry land, more nearly dead than ever by that time. The ancient senile had just fallen in while drinking." The narrative continues with the struggles Parker had for an education, but so sympathetic was Mrs. Parker and so hallowed by love were all the discouraging days and nights that their struggles were lifted into a world of high romance. What might have been heart-breaking to some couples was heart-making to these two. Wherever Carleton Parker went in search of education in his field, went Cornelia Parker and their children as they came along. After Harvard, the two of them, with only borrowed money to live upon and with two tiny children, sailed off for Europe in search of more sociology and economics and a Ph. D. Degree. "People wrote us in those days,' Mrs. Parker says, " 'You brave people?think of starting to Europe with two babies!' Brave was the last word to use. Had we worried or had fears over anything, and yet fared forth, we should perhaps have been brave. As it was, I can feel again the sensation of leaving New York, gazing back on the city buildings and bridges bathed in sunshine after the storm. Exultant joy was in our hearts, that was all. Not one worry, not one concern, not one small drop of home-sickness. We were to see Europe together, years before we had dreamed it possible. It just seemed too glorious to be true. 'Brave?' Far from it. Simply eager, glowing, filled to the brim with a determination to drain every day to the full." There you have the spirit of these two of this delightful book. In due time the family returned, Ph. D. And all, to take up life at Berkeley again; he as assistant professor on $1700.00 the year, but still the courageous, democratic lover he had always been; she still adoring. Later he was called to the University of Washington as Dean of the College of Commerce. In the meantime, however, he had become nationally known as a mediator between capital and labor. His last piece of work was in connection with the threatened strike in the flour-mills during the World War. 'In all he had mediated thirty-two strikes, sat on two arbitration boards, made three cost-of-living surveys for the Government.", On Wednesday, March 6, 1918, he took a fever, which developed into pneumonia (possibly the "flu" as it was sudden and strange) and never recovered. He died March 17, 1918. "His body was cremated, without any service whatever?nobody present but one of his brothers and a great friend. The next day the two men scattered his ashes out on the waters of Puget Sound. I feel it was as he would have had it." GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 569 That is the simple story Cornelia Parker has told of her husband. He was but forty when he died, just prepared to enter upon his career. Despite the fact that in so short a time he had become nationally known in his field, if the name of Carleton Parker is to live beyond this generation, it will be because he was genuine, a great lover, and the husband of a wife who could give to the world An American Idyll. QUESTIONS AND PROBLEMS 1. Why did Cornelia Parker write 4n American Idyll? Were her motives good? 2. Do you get an adequate picture of the man? If not, why not? 3. What are some of the endearing qualities he possessed? Did his wife possess some of the same qualities? 4. Give reasons why this book has become so popular. 5. Select and read passages that illustrate the charm of the narrative. Sketch of the Life of Carleton H. Parker Carleton H. Parker, the subject of this sketch, was born March 31, 1878, in Vacaville, California, of Western pioneer parentage. He had two brothers and one sister. The other two boys, according to Mrs. Parker, had been encouraged to see the world.: Carleton planned to spend fourteen months in Europe, his serious objective upon his return being to act as secretary to Professor Stephens of the University of California. During his youth, in search of means with which to continue his college work, he worked at almost everything that a young Westerner might find to do. He was farmer, miner, and other things. He even became a member of the Western Federation of Miners. He studied at the University of California; there, on September 3, 1903, he met Cornelia Stratton, who was then in her freshman year. He had recently returned from a trip in Idaho, where he had been hunting with some friends. He soon became rather well acquainted with Cornelia, and to her he related many of his adventures. A friendship was struck up which soon changed into love. The two decided to marry as soon as possible, to enjoy a honeymoon in Idaho, and to go to Persia. Mr. Stratton, Cornelia's father, however, was not over enthusiastic, since young Parker had nothing upon which to marry. The wedding day was therefore postponed, but not given up. Carl went away to Europe, and Cornelia continued with her studies until she graduated with a Bachelor's degree.
 
Upon his return from Europe, Carleton lectured for the University of California Extension Division upon trade unionism and South Africa. On September 7, 1907, the two young people married. Their trip to Idaho had to be abandoned, but it was given up cheerfully, as was also the dream of Persia. The two went for a three weeks' honeymoon on a trip up the Rogue river in southern Oregon.
The first months of married life were a period of struggle for the two young people. Young Parker tried the bond business, but did not like it nor did he succeed very well. His work caused many separations, which for the two were hard to bear. For that reason chiefly they decided that he was to go into university work. A period of study then ensued. Borrowed money and rigid economy made it possible for the family to keep together, though a son was born the year after they were married and other children came rather regularly. They went to Cambridge, where Mr. Parker enrolled at Harvard University. Later, in order to finish his education in the field of economics, he went to Germany, where he received his Ph. D. Degree. They especially enjoyed Heidelberg. Upon their return to America, Carleton Parker was engaged as an assistant professor at the University of California and was later taken to Seattle as Dean of the College of Commerce of the University of Washington. He had held that position only a short time when he died.
LESSON IV Social Service (Fourth Week in December)
Lesson 18. Summary
In this?the last?lesson we shall restate and sum up the main facts and principles discussed in the seventeen preceding lessons. Based on The Child: His Nature and His Needs.
As previously announced, the next six lessons, January to June 1930, will cover The Field of Social Work. No book will be required for the new series. Monthly outlines in the Magazine will contain references to appropriate readings.
I. The course of study we are just completing has had two purposes: (1) a survey of present-day knowledge concerning child nature; (2) the promotion of the well-being and education of the young. It is an attempt to furnish the parent and the social worker with a resume of up-to-date, scientific information on
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 571
child welfare. In seventeen lessons, it was possible to deal merely with the big, broad principles involved; a wealth of minor facts and details, remains still unexplored. It is hoped, however, that our members will continue their study of one or more of the subjects treated.
The first main division of the subject dealt with our present knowledge of child nature. Here we considered the child's instincts and impulses; his active nature and needs; the development of his intelligence; his social and moral growth; and, finally, his mastery of the arts of expression. In the first chapter, Dr. Baldwin showed that the science and practice of child development and training are today intimately associated more than ever before in the history of psychology and education. This fact points to many far-reaching changes in education. In order to keep pace with this advance, teachers and parents alike must change their methods of child-training. It was pointed out that children differ widely; individual differences constitute perhaps the most significant of all of the principles of educational psychology. A third principle, also stressed at the outset, can be stated thus: The basis of a strong character and a wholesome personality is a normal, healthy body.
In the matter of instincts and impulses, two things are important to remember: The first is that the infant is not an adult in miniature, but rather a bundle of impulses and instincts,?the raw materials out of which complicated behavior and adult personality are later built. The second is that instincts and impulses cannot be suppressed; they can, however, be directed and socialized. Wise guidance of the child's original nature is the chief task of both parent and teacher.
Another major principle is that the normal healthy child is active, physically and mentally. Much of his activity is play, which is an invaluable preparation for adulthood. Wise parental guidance of the child's play-life is one key to wholesome personality and strong character. Closely related to this principle is the fact that, other things being equal, superior minds are more likely to be found in healthy bodies.
As we pass from the child's physical and mental nature to his moral growth, we discover a principle of great importance, stated thus: Character is affected by a multitude of factors?heredity, general health, food, home life, street life, school life, newspapers, movies, parents, companions, habits of thought, occupations; therefore to ensure desirable character in a child, parents and teachers must control all the factors directly or indirectly affecting his moral development.
 
"There is no such thing as a distinct training in character apart from the rest of the child's development." A child's personality is the joint product of heredity and social influence; and to facilitate the "abundant life," both factors must be intelligently controlled by parents and by society.
In considering the child's mastery of the arts of expression, we saw that language, for instance, is an extremely complicated piece of behavior. Learning a language constitutes the child's first educational task. It challenges and measures not only his own mental powers, but the guidance-skill of his parents and his teachers.
II. The second big division of our subject dealt with present knowledge of child well-being. Here we examined the principles of child-care as they are illustrated in nutrition, mental hygiene, delinquency, the care of the intellectually inferior, and of intellectually superior children.
Specifically, we saw that the five chief causes of malnutrition are:
Physical defects. Lack of home control. Over-fatigue. Faulty food habits and improper food. Faulty health habits.
Among the principles of mental hygiene we noted the following:
Most mental handicaps are preventable.
Almost all persons have some degree of inferiority-feeling. Compensations for actual or imagined inferiority are quite normal. The problem of child guidance is therefore one of facilitating appropriate compensations.
All children and grown-ups normally demand a confidante, i.e. some understanding person who will listen without moralizing.
Many personality problems are overcome when the handicapped person is able, through the assistance of others, to objectify his own problems, i.e. to analyze his own difficulty as though it were the problem of another.
In problems of juvenile delinquency two significant principles stand out. First, that "each delinquent child is the product of nine or ten subversive circumstances, one as a rule preponderating and all conspiring to draw him into crime." Second, that it is far
GUIDE LESSONS FOR DECEMBER 573
more efficient and humane to deal with children's misconduct in a scientific way than to resort to the old, dubious process of punishment.
The elements of a State program for the care of mental defectives, we found to be:
Identification.
Registration.
Special education in the public schools for the high-grade defective.
Segregation in a separate state school for the low-grade defective.
Segregation in a separate state institution for the defective delinquent.
We noted that twenty out of one hundred school children selected at random are of such superiority as to demand special education facilities and guidance. About six children out of the average hundred warrant even more flexible classification and more intensified guidance in the schools.
IV. The third division of the course dealt with our present knowledge of education. Here we noted the obvious gap between educational theory and educational practice, a condition due primarily to social change and the social process. More specifically, we saw how education is becoming scientific by means of (a) objective, verifiable rules and principles, (b) the more or less successful practice of measuring the results of instruction, and (c) the marked tendency to experimentation and research.
Finally, we considered (a) the changing objective in education, (b) recent modifications in the course of study, and (c) newer techniques of teaching. The chief objective in education today, is the development of a wholesome personality in the child. By means of emphases on vocations and character, courses of study are more or less converging to this broad purpose. The methods, too, because of the pragmatic tests to which they are being constantly subjected, are more efficient than ever before.
The child is a many-sided creature. His nature?though complex?can be understood; and his needs?though many?can be supplied. Intelligent parenthood is the only answer.
QUESTIONS FOR THE FURTHER STIMULATION OF THOUGHT
What important principles of child care, other than those mentioned above, do you feel should be listed in this summary?
 
Why do we not attempt more individual guidance of children, both in and out of school?
What are some of the safe rules for the control and elimination of fear in children?
What is the nature and extent of character education in the public schools of your community?
How can society regulate?if it should?the group affiliations of children without supervising such groups and therefore destroying one of the desirable aspects from the standpoint of the child?
What are the mental hygiene problems of your community? Is any attempt being made to solve these problems?
Outline and consider together a program for preventing juvenile delinquency in your community.
Is it necessary that education lag behind social development? Explain.
Sunsets By Grace Mister Frost
Yesterday's sun went down in crimson glory That flamed the heights with hectic after-glow; Today's sun told the world a different story, It spilled a flood of gold, its wealth to show, Above the azure rim of western hills. And of a mist of pearl enhanced the beauty, With opalescent gems and pastel frills.
Tomorrow's sun?how will it pass? Will it go down beyond a bank of cloud, Holding in leash the hoarse voice of the thunder That fain would break forth into clamor loud? Or will it rend its shroud, and from the darkness Shine out, clad in a purple majesty That, exulting in the splendor of its starkness, Reveals a soul's unswathed divinity?
Oh, to go down in such sublimity, When there shall come the end of day for me!
[ADVERTISEMENTS SECTION]
PRIVATE SECRETARY Dress well, have money of your own, and work among congenial, successful people. Hundreds of girls have been prepared for stenographic and secretarial positions at L. D. S. Business College. We assist graduates in finding positions. Free booklet describes plan which will train you thoroughly at reasonable cost. Write your name and address below and send in this ad for full particulars?today.
ADDRESS L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE 80 North Main Street
CONVENIENCE The O. P. Skaggs System way has changed grocery buying from a dreaded ordeal to an anticipated pleasure. Stores are roomy, convenient and pleasing. Food displays large and attractive and prices so low that all can afford good things to eat regularly.
O. P. SKAGGS "A Surety of Purity" When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
"YOU CAN'T GO WRONG" THAT'S WHY WE SAY "Buy Blue Pine Food Products" and if for any reason your purchase is not entirely satisfactory, go to your Grocer and he will refund your money. BLUE PINE FOOD PRODUCTS
SALT LAKE VISITING NURSING SERVICE For general information call K. M. Hudson, R.N., 46 Truman Ave., Salt Lake City, Utah, Phone Hy. 6177. Service includes, Routine Visits, Maternity Service, Surgical Assistance at minor operations and Hourly Service by appointment, for special treatments or dressings.
We Are a Utah Company Manufacturing WATER HEATERS, and FURNACES either HOT WATER, STEAM or WARM AIR and these furnaces burn either GAS or OIL. They save all the HEAT, and are fully automatic. For further particulars call on COUNTERFLO HEATER CO. 406 Atlas Block SALT LAKE CITY Tel. Was. 7745 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
It is an easy matter surprisingly inexpensive to install a modern Natural Gas House Heating conversion unit like that pictured here, in your present warm air furnace, vapor, hot-water or steam boiler. Then you have the luxurious comfort and convenience of an automatically heated home. No more tending the fires?no more running down stairs and back, half a dozen times a day?zero mornings included?no more smoke, or soot, or dirt, or ashes. Just a correct, healthful temperature in your home all the time, without thought or attention on your part. Ideal living conditions! Come in today, or phone, for further details. We'll gladly give you an estimate of costs for your home.
Natural GAS THE IDEAL FUEL
Wasatch Gas Company 45 SOUTH MAIN -- SALT LAKE CITY -- PHONE WASATCH 300 Serving KAYSVILLE (Branch Office) Phone Kaysville 200 - LAYTON - FARMINGTON - BOUNTIFUL - CENTERVILLE - MAGNA - TOOELE - GARFIELD - MURRAY (Branch Office Phone Murray 59 - MIDVALE - SANDY
Utah Gas & Coke Co. 145 SOUTH MAIN -- PHONE WASATCH 800 Serving Salt Lake City
Ogden Gas Company 414 TWENTY FOURTH ST. -- PHONE 174 When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine
WHAT NEED OF OUR RELIEF SOCIETIES?
Have you ever stopped to consider what a fine big brother LIFE INSURANCE has been to the Relief Society?
Thousands of families who are now able to carry on entirely on their own would never have been in this independent position were it not for the LIFE INSURANCE POLICY the husband and father so wisely provided.
If every family carried sufficient Life Insurance protection, the great work of the Relief Society would be lessened by half and many unfortunate children would have an equal chance in life.
SURELY YOU WILL NOT BE ONE OF THE NEGLIGENT PARENTS
The Big Home Company Has a Policy to Suit Your Purse?Lowest Rates?The Best Protection
ALL BENEFICIAL POLICYHOLDERS SHARE IN THE NET EARNINGS OF THE COMPANY
Ask Any Beneficial Representative. He Will Gladly Give You Information Without Obligation on Your Part
Beneficial Life Insurance Co. Home Office, Vermont Building, Salt Lake City, Utah HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, General Manager
When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine