						CLARA BARTON.


[column 1]
	EXTRACTS FROM LETTER. 
	ALICE MERRILL HORNE. 
	Since Snnday last we have traveled a 
long way and seen many many strange 
sights. Last Sunday we left Liverpool in 
the morning, landed at London in the even-
ing. This morning we left Brussels and 
and arrived this evening at Cologne. What 
a wonderful change, we like it all. The 
weather has been favorable and we have 
seen things at their best. London smiled 
until we were leaving when she clouded up 
and cried a bit as they say. Oh but the 
National Gallery there fine, fine. I like all 
[column 2]
the great masters. The National Academy 
is so funny. I am proud of our artists for 
the number of canvases we have, I don't
blame Taggart for thinking we make a good 
showing in Utah Art Exhibitions. I feel 
so glad to know how to compare them with 
Eastern, and European artists of today. 
The National Gallery in London has some 
wonderful Rembrandts and Velasquez 
though I like the Boston one better than
any I have seen yet. 
We were interested in the Bank of Lon-
don and London Bridge, and Oh the won-
derful Trafalger square we saw so many 
times, passing over "The Strand." Lud-
gate Hill, Rotten Row, Victoria Street, Pall 
Mall, St. James, etc. Where a number of 
streets come together they call it the cir-
cus, and Ludgate circus. There is much to 
be seen in London. It is a great big world.
We did not go to the Tower. One day we 
rode down the Strand just to see how far 
we could go for one drive on the bus; we 
went 16 miles for 8 cts, and then we were 
tired, but its so interesting to ride on top of
the bus. Dr. Snow seemed pleased to see us 
and met us up town one day. He may join 
us in Paris. The Parliament houses are fine 
looking structures. There were so many 
names familiar from association in reading
various books, such as "Old Curiosity
Shop" "The Horse Guards" &c. 
We left London for Dover and Ostend 
and Brussels, Friday afternoon. Dover is 
picturesque on the high cliffs. The trip
across the channel is beastly, I dread going 
back. As soon as one lands in Holland 
everything looks so different. The houses 
are Dutchy the gardening different, women 
are hoeing and raking with their wooden
shoes on. The windmills are so picturesque,
the houses are low and flat, the gardens are 
scrupulously kept, the trees are tall and
fringey—on either side the fringe grows up 
the tall trunk. Holland reminds me of 
Nebraska country, only the green is more
luxuriant. 
At Brussels we found a beautiful city and 
a grand old Church St. Gudule built in the 
14th. century. There is a woman figure 
with electric lights around her. There are 
statues of all the Apostles. The windows 
are very rare. The Church is built on a hill 
affording a splendid view. The art gallery 
has some fine early Dutch art. Our hotel 
Du Porte was very nice; they served good 
meals; we have been advised to drink no 
water and we are very thirsty. Miss C. is
a good traveler, she does remarkably well; 
we saw the lace making and the real laces; 
they are lovely and very inexpensive here.
We secured some Post cards of Waterloo
field, Churches and museums, left Sunday 
morning after talking, and getting some 
points from two Americans; we found some 
nice people on the way a lady and two chil-
dren French but nice; had the custom's 
official who merely looked in our grips.
Their country roads are a marvel; numbers 
seem to be traveling on bicycles; the chest-
nut and other trees are all in bloom. A
holiday something like Easter is on—flags
everywhere. Old chateaus on the mountain 
or rather hill side are very beautiful, every


foot of the way we have come is beautiful 
from the fields at the edge of Liverpool. I 
am now at the hotel Belgium in Mayence 
or Mentz.
	We arrived last evening and the trip from 
Cologne down to this point has not been 
touched by word-painting, words simply
are of no avail in giving a true representa-
tion of it. 
	Our hotel Disch at Cologne is a beautiful 
old place. At every turn some one waits 
for a tip and they all want so much too. On 
the boat the woman held one end of the 
towel while I used the other waiting for a 
tip. 
	We leave now for Heidleberg on board 
the Augusta Victoria, nothing can compare 
with the Rhine. The Hudson is not to be 
mentioned in connection with it. I hear Tag-
garts are in Paris and will be able to see
them. Tips everywhere until you do not
know where you are at. 
Visited Heidleberg castle today. It is a 
beautiful old place, the deep moat around 
it cannot be seen in the picture, from the 
front can be seen the lovely river, old 
houses, fine flowering trees, universities of 
Heidleberg etc. We met two English ladies 
who went with us for a drive to see the 
places of interest.


