	QUESTIONS.

	Give examples of the world’s great men
who attribute their success to their mother’s
influence. How can a woman do the most
good in the world? Show why a loving
mother can influence her child more than
any one else.
	C. L. E.

Lecture 8.— What to tell Our Girls.
	It is one thing to possess knowledge, and
quite another thing to impart it to others.
We are told to “instruct our girls,’’ as if it
were the easiest thing in the world to do,
when in reality it is one of the hardest.
	Warn her against vulgar stories she may
hear, and ask her to tell you everything her
playmates tell her. Then you will have a
chance to correct errors, and warn against
impure teachings and harmful associates, as
well as lay a foundation for future confid-
ences and close companionship.
	E. C. D.

Lecture 9.— What to tell Our Boys.
	WHO shall tell them? The fathers should,
in case that fails the mothers must.
	If it is difficult for a mother to talk to her
girl, it is ten times more so for her to talk
to her boy, but for the sake of his health and
life and character, it is just as necessary
that it should be done, though from a some-
what different stand point. Mothers too
often think that the fathers do this import-
ant work and making no inquiries silently
trust that that the son is put on his guard,
and thus trusting the infant becomes a lad,
a youth, and finally a man in ignorance,
and too often in vice and wickedness. Ig-
norance is not innocence, nor is it even a
safeguard. Fathers are busy, and away from
the family a great deal of their time, and it
is a delicate subject, needing more tact and
ingenuity than many men possess. The
mother is at home, and can if she seeks for
it, find the boy in a thoughtful moment,
when all the better qualities and the tender-

[Column 2]
ness of his nature is alert, and if she speaks
at the proper time, all may be well.
	1. Explain the action of work on devel-
oping muscles.
	2. Explain the action of food on muscles
and brain.
	3. Explain the action of tobacco on
muscles and brain.
	4. Explain the action of liquors on
muscles and brain.
	5 Explain the action of tea, coffee and
high seasoned food.
	6. Give a list of food best suited to the
growth of the young.
	7. Show how disease of one part of the
body makes all of the body ill by illustra-
tion.
	8. Show how inflammation of different
parts affect the brain, and what parts of the
body has the strongest effect on the mind.
	E. C. D.

Lecture 10.—Mothers advice to marriage-
able Sons and Daughters.

	Before young people take upon them-
selves the responsibilities of husband and
wife they should understand that there is
no more important step between the cradle
and the grave than marriage, that it is the
proper way for nature to develop self con-
trol, patience, industry, and strengthen all
their virtues, that a true marriage is a per-
fect union of the body and spirit, and that
there are many heavy responsibilities they
will have to carry for their obligations are
not alone to themselves and each other, but
they owe duties to their Creator, to their
fellow beings, and to yet unborn human-
ity.
Here this already overworked, careworn
mother seems to be the only person fully
qualified to talk.  No one else can so fit-
tingly take the blushing girl aside, and
draw from her the confessions of love, the
announcement of the engagement, the plans
for the coming union, and the bright hopes
for her future womanhood. No one like a
mother can approach so near the sacred se-
crets of a son in the early dignity of mature
manhood. And there is no time in the life
of a human being, when they can so readily
be approached, or when they are so anxious
to learn.
	Take then, your hero son, and tell him
of the coming needs for himself and his
wife FINANCIALLY, remind him of the nec-
essity of his keeping within his means, for
debt at the start is succeeded, and often
ended, with privations and vexations innu-
merable.
	Paul says ‘‘he who does not provide for
his own household has already denied the
faith.” Tell him how neatness and care
in all that he does will lighten the labor of
his wife, and increase her respect and tend-
erness for him, and that it is his duty to
shield her from every care and anxiety re-
garding physical wants that he possibly
can. And if necessary explain the suffer-
ing of her body and the strain on her nerves
during the child-bearing period.
	And to the fair young daughter explain
that “wastefulness is wickedness,” and that
a careless wasteful wife can spend and des-
troy anything the best provider can furn-
ish, and have very little to show for it.
Tell her that her happiness and the peace
of her household depends in a great meas-
ure on her economy in food, fuel, furniture
clothes, strength and time. Above all the
accomplishments she should possess, that of
being a really good cook is the most desir-


[Column 1]
able, and to be that, the thing above all 
others that she should know best how to do 
is to bake good bread. 
If good bread is in the house one always 
feels that there is something to eat. 
