THE BERLIN MEETINGS.
	Mrs. Ida H. Harper is contributing to a
number of American papers a series of
lively articles on the Quinquennial meet-
ing of the Women’s International Council,
at Berlin. She says in part:

	“A Berlin! A Berlin! was the warlike cry
of Napoleon. And a Berlin, a Berlin, has
been the rallying cry of an army of women
as, from the four corners of the earth, they
have journeyed to the seat of the German
Empire. Under the white banner of peace
those of Germany and France clasp friendly
hands. Australia and New Zealand bring
greetings to Austria and Bulgaria; the Ital-
ian peninsula salutes the Scandinavian;
South America presents her compliments to
Great Britain, and the United States beams
approvingly on all. The men of our country
would feel very proud of their women folks
if they could see the attention shown them
at these great international meetings. “If
only we had the liberty you possess,” the
other women say; “if only our men would
let us show what we are capable of doing
and being!” and then invariably they end
with the inquiry, “But why is it that you
have not the suffrage, when you have
everything else?”
	The American Church was filled to over-
flowing on the Sunday before the opening
of the meetings, and when Rev. Anna
Howard Shaw arose to offer prayer, the au-
dience resembled a field of wheat stirred by
a breeze, as it leaned forward to see a wo-
man preacher. It seemed most fitting that
the first woman who ever entered a pulpit
in Germany should be Susan B. Anthony,
for among the earliest demands made by
Mrs. Stanton and herself in 1852 was one
that women should be permitted to enter
the ministry and have part in all church
councils. It was a touching spectacle—this
grand old apostle of freedom, in her eighty-
fifth year, as with a tone of triumph, in her
voice she contrasted the position of women
now and half a century ago. The inspiring
address of Mrs Carrie Chapman Catt, which
followed, brought the audience so near to
applause that Miss Shaw came quickly for-


[Column 1]
ward to pronounce the benediction and re-
quest that they observe reverently the day
and place. Rev. Dr. Dickie looked proud
and pleased as he offered his arm to Miss
Anthony, literally to rescue her, as the en-
tire congregation of women pressed forward
and fairly took her in their embrace.
	The business sessions of the Council are
held in the beautiful “House of the Art-
ists,” where their picture exhibits are given,
and, like the other halls here, rich in paint-
ings, stained glass, carving and statuary.
If the confusion of tongues does not drive
the delegates to drink, they certainly will
be entitled to a medal from the W. C. T. U.
The Council officially recognizes three lan-
guages, English, German and French, but
all previous meetings have been conducted
in English. Here, however, the other two
prevail, but even these are foreign to the
members, from Holland, Finland, Scandi-
navia, and various other countries. While
most of their educated women speak Eng
lish to some degree, and some of the Eng-
lish women understand French and Ger-
man, only a few can follow involved resolu-
tions, amendments and parliamentary tan-
gles. All the proceedings, speeches, etc,
at the business sessions, therefore, have to
be repeated by the interpreters in the three
languages, and when the discussion be-
comes animated and the temper slightly
heated, the Tower of Babel by comparison
seems a very simple proposition. Self-con-
trol and friendliness of sp[-]rit are manifested
to a degree which is really remarkable un-
der the circumstances, but the delegates are
pretty limp by the end of each session.
	At the charming social entertainments
which have been arranged we find the same
exasperating obstacle, and frequently, upon
meeting some one whom we have long
wished to know, we can only press her
hand, look eloquently in her eyes, and pass
on feeling like an idiot. Usually, however,
we Americans are like the husband and
wife who always effected a peaceful com-
promise by doing exactly as the husband
wished. We compromise the difference in
language by carrying on the conversation
in English; but still there are a number of
our women from the United States who
converse fluently in German and French.
We are proud of our international president,
Mrs. Sewall, who apparently speaks and
understands the three languages with equal
ease. When the audience were wildly ap-
plauding her address, our American delega-
tion thought to make our appreciation espe-
cially manifest by shouting “Hoch! Hoch!”
at the top of our voices, but we pronounced
it “Hock,” and learned afterwards that it
should have been “Ho,” so we shall ap-
plaud in English hereafter.
	As we sat on the platform and looked
down into the hundreds of faces, we asked
Miss Shaw if she could see much difference
between this and an American audience.
“Yes,” she answered, here they have en-
thusiasm.” And so they have, responding
instantly to a point, and rising to their feet
with cries of approval in a way that is most
inspiring to a speaker. Strange to say, the
appearance of the audience is not so differ-
ent from one in the United States as it

[Column 2]
seemed in London. Das Palast Hotel is in
a busy centre, with a park in front, and at
night one might imagine himself looking
out of the windows of the Fifth Avenue
Hotel in New York.
	The hospitality, courtesy and thoughtful-
ness of the Berlin women to the Council
delegates and speakers can hardly be ex-
pressed. It is overflowing, boundless, un-
ceasing. Nothing has been overlooked
which could contribute to our comfort and
convenience. Every hour not required for
council meetings is filled with the most de-
lightful social affairs, always offering the
most elaborate refreshments. What must
foreigners think when they are invited to a
“tea” or reception in the United States and
regaled with a wafer or a tiny cup of choco-
late?
	The cards for the opening reception given
by the German Council in Prince Albert’s
Hotel said nine o’clock, so some of us
dined leisurely, took our time to make an
evening toilette, and presented ourselves
about eleven. Our feeling may be imagined
when we were ushered into a great banquet
hall, the tables still weighted with the re-
mains of an elaborate feast, the toasts all
finished and the receiving party bidding
adieu to the guests. Since then we have
driven up to the door “when the clock was
striking the hour”
	The lovers of beautiful architecture and
exquisite decorations were in rapture over
the house of Frau Geheimen Baurath Kay-
ser, whose husband is one of the leading
architects in Berlin. In his own home he
has expressed his choicest ideas, and all
parts of Europe have contributed to its
unique furnishings. It was placed at the
disposal of Frau Marie Stritt, of Dresden,
president of the German Council, for her
reception to the delegates. Mrs. Sewall
has had three functions, an opening “cof-
fee,” a handsome luncheon of a hundred
covers, and a large reception in honor of
the new offi[-]ial board, all in the banquet room
of Das Palast Hotel.
	The breakfast given by the Berlin Com-
mittee of Arrangements, whose chairman
is Frau Hedwig Heyl, daughter of the
founder of the North German Lloyd Steam-
ship Company, a society leader and presi-
dent of various clubs and societies, has been
one of the most notable events The club-
house, in one of the lovely parks on the
shores of the river Spree, was an ideal
place, and every arrangement was perfect,

[Column 3]
music, flowers, toasts, souvenirs, not a de-
tail lacking, even the bonbons bearing an
excellent picture of Miss Anthony.
	The week’s social festivities closed fit-
tingly with the reception of Ambassador
and Mrs. Tower to the American delegates.
They reside in a magnificent palace in an
aristocratic part of the city, and it is said
his entire salary for the year lacks $500 of
paying his annual rent. Lovers of demo-
cratic simplicity may hold that it is not neces-
sary for him to live in so sumptuous a man-
ner, but they do not comprehend how essen-
tial this is in a foreign country if the Ameri-
can Embassy is to maintain its prestige
with those of other nations. Mr. Tower is
the only Ambassador from the United
States who ever has been able to entertain
at dinner the Emperor of Germany, as the
etiquette of the court permits him to enter
only homes maintained at a certain stand-
ard.
	Most of us have been pleased to see To-
ronto selected as the place for the next
Quinquennial meeting of the Council.
	The presidency of Mrs Sewall has been
without a parallel in the history of organi-
zations. She founded the Council with
nine affiliated branches, or National Aux-
iliaries. She leaves it with a membership
of twenty National Councils, and with vice-
presidents in fifteen other countries doing
the preliminary work toward organization.
The Council is partly supported by patrons
who pay $100. and of the thirty-five of
these Mrs. Sewall, or those very close to
her, have secured thirty-three. The amount
of labor she has done, the thousands of
letters she has written, are beyond compu-
tation. The present Council has been one
of the greatest triumphs ever recorded for
organized womanhood, and Mrs. Sewall’s
ability as a presiding officer is unsur-
passed.”						Ex.


