BIRTHDAY ANNIVERSARY.
	The birthday anniversary of the great
leader, pioneer and president. Brigham 
Young, which occurs June first, was ob-
served this year with an immense gathering 
of relatives and friends in the G anite Stake
house. This celebrated man was born June 
1, 1801, and would therefore have been one 
hundred and three years old were he living.


The gathering in his honor this year was 
quite as elaborate as on any former occasion,
and the spirit that prevailed throughout all
the exercises was calculated,to impress those 
who participated with the lofty character 
and magnanimity of the man to whom Utah
owes so much in her settlement, develop-
ment and enterprise.
	The tables were prepared for between 
four and five hundred guests and beautifully
decorated with flowers,and filled with the best 
the earth affords to tempt the appetite and 
add to the social enjoyment of the occasion.
	At the head of the first table the First 
Presidency af the Church were seated, Pres-
idents Joseph F Smith, John R. Winder
and Anthon H. Lund, Apostles F. M. Ly-
man and Rudger Clawson and ladies, with 
the nearest representatives of the famous 
Young family, Dr. Seymour B. Young and 
several sons of President Young, also his 
eminent graudson, Richard W. Young, and
many members of the illustrious family, 
Sisters Naamah Twiss, Lucy B., Eliza B.,
and Amelia F. Young surviving wives of 
President Brigham Young. It is quite im-
possible to mention all those who are en-
titled to place in the roll of honor, as there 
were so many whose names are familiar and 
dear to the people,that it is quite impossible 
to do justice to so large a subject in such 
limited space.
	President Joseph F. Smith paid a glow-
ing tribute to the memory of Brother Young
as did also his counselors, and Elder R. W.
Young responded happily, after which the 
guests rose and the clearing up began ready 
for the program and evening entertainment.
There was excellent music, a variety of 
songs and recitations, and later on dancing,
all of which was most enjoyable. Every-
thing passed off pleasantly and it was cer-
tainly one of the most satisfactory anniver-
saries that has been celebrated, as the house
itself is well adapted to large gatherings.
There are always some vacancies each year
and this time Apostle Brigham Young was 
missing.
	"To every man upon the earth.
	Death cometh soon or late."
	Others were missing, too, daughters and 
grandchildren and so each year some go 
and others are added to the role.
	The name and memory of Brigham 
Young can never die, for his works praise 
him throughout these mountain vales.


