A HAPPY BIRTHDAY PARTY.
	The seventy fifth anniversary of the 
birthday of Sister Hannah C. Wells was 
celebrated at the residence of her son, Elder 
Junius F. Wells,on Thursday, June 9,with
a party of her old friends. The handsome 
parlors and hall were beautfully decorated 
with lovely flowers and vines, and the wel-
come extended by Mrs Junius F. Wells 
and members of the family was most gen-
uine and warm hearted. The meeting of 
friends of other days, many of whom had 
known Sister Wells in her girlhood, was a
very pleasant feature of the occasion. Rem-
iniscences and incidents of travel and famil-
iar intercourse were exceedingly interesting,
and conversation flowed free and easy.
	A sumptuous repast was served on small 
tables of three and four, and the company 
were delightfully waited upon by the
nieces and granddaughters of the honored 
guest of the day. Among the guests were
Presidents Joseph F. Smith, John R. Win-


der and Anthon H. Lund, Apostle F. M.
Lyman and Hon. W. W Riter.
	Sisters over eighty years of age were 
Sisters Bathsheba W. Smith and Rachel R.
Grant; besides these were many other vet-
eran sisters—Sisters Lucy W. and Amanda
G. Kimball, Sisters Margaret P , Eliza B. 
and Amelia F. Young, Sisters Margaret Y.
Taylor and Catherine C. Young and many
more.
	After the tables were removed there were
some informal exercises, a poem composed 
and read by Mrs. E B Wells in honor of the 
birthday of Mrs. Hannah C. Wells; a brief 
sketch of her life and testimony of the Gos-
pel, prepared and read by her son Junius;
after which congratulatory remarks were 
made by Presidents Joseph F. Smith, J. R.
Winder, A. H. Lund, Apostle F.M Lyman,
and Hon. W. W. Riter, also by Sisters B.
W. Smith, Lucy W. Kimball and others;
to these expressions of love and esteem
Sister Wells responded tactfully and gra-
ciously, and the entire affair was very hap-
py and enjoyable. Much praise is due to 
the able management of the host and host 
ess, who gave such pleasure to the veteran
mother in Israel as well as to her dear 
friends and associates.
	Sister Wells was the recipient of a num-
ber of valuable gifts, and these in them-
selves were but trifles compared to the love
and friendship of a lifetime The partings 
from each other at such times seems all too
soon, and many were the kind wishes and 
happy returns of the day given at the de-
parture of the guests wh n the hour for 
leave-taking arrived


[Column 1]
	RELIEF SOCIETY REPORTS.
