MALAD STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Malad
stake was held at Riverside May 19, 1904.
President Julia A. Richards presiding. Af-
ter opening exercises, seven branches of
the Society were reported by their respec-
tive presidents; all said to be in excellent
condition. Statistical and financial report
of the Society for the year 1903 was read
and accepted, A few opening remarks
were made by President Richards welcom-
ing the visiting brethren and sisters and
expressing her pleasure in the great and
noble work of the organization.
	Sister Elizabeth J. Stevenson, repre-
sentative from the General Board dwelt
upon a variety of subjects connected
with Woman’s Work, and mentioned the
recent purchase of the land of the Temple
site in Jackson County, Missouri.
	Stake Counselor Eliza V. Ward and Sec-
retary Josie S. Kennard bore testimony to
the importance of Relief Society work, and
felt to do their share in the same.
	Elder Jesse Dodge talked of the need of
storing grain in time of plenty; thought
the young mothers were the ones that
should be interested in the Mother’s Work.
Singing, benediction by L. H. Kennard,
Sen.

[Column 2]
	Afternoon session at 2 p. m., opened by
singing and prayer, roll call, minutes, etc.
Remainder of the wards represented as in
good working order. Treasurer Ella S.
Capener gave a talk on outlines of Mother’s
Work.
	Sister Stevenson spoke upon home build-
ing, the early days of the Saints here in the
valley, counseled the sisters to have houses
of their own in which to hold their meet-
ings, spoke also of union and the nurse
class, thought we should have plenty of
trained nurses for the sick in our midst,
gave much good advice on family affairs
and the mission of women in saving souls,
and talked on the Mother’s Work.
	Stake President M. H. Welling spoke on
Mother’s Work and home-building. Presi-
dent Richards made closing remarks and
thanked all that had assisted in making the
conference successful. Benediction by
Bishop William Price of Samaria
	After the close of the conference the
visitors were taken by Bishop Myron J.
Richards to visit the Garland sugar factory,
and all expressed themselves as having had
a good time.
