		UINTAH STAKE.

	The Relief Society conference of the
Uintah stake was held March 4, 1904,
President Sarah Pope presiding After the 
usual exercises and reading of minutes, etc,
President Pope made a few remarks, urg-
ing the sisters to be more regular in attend-
ing the conference to obtain instruction in 
reference to the duties in their own Society 
work
	Elder Jamas Hacking asked the Lord to
bless the sisters, that they might realize 
their true position on the ear[-]h.
	Reports were given by the respective 
presidents of Maeser and Glines wards and 
the morning meeting adjourn[-]d until 2 p m.
Benediction by President Sarah Pope.
	Afternoon session was opened by singing,
and prayer was offered by Patriarch Merk-
ley. After singing and reading of minutes
the general and local officers of the society, 
wero presented and the statistical and fin-
ancial reports of the stake w[-]re read.
Reports of Jenson, Naples, Dry Fork and 
Vernal were made by the presidents.
	President Samuel R. Bennion, of the
Uintah stake, addressed the sisters. He was 
pleased to hear the sisters had so much 
wheat and real estate, and gave them some 
good instruction in regard to their wheat 
	Patriarch Merkley also spoke of the good 
reports and of unity, and that we should 
be the happiest people on the earth.
	Counselor A K. Bartlett warned the sis-
ters against evil speaking and passing
judgment on matters with which they had
no concern, but spend their time studying 
the principles of the Gospel, and be dili-
gent in their duties at home and in the
society.

[Column 2]
	Sister Abigail Oaks wondered how the 
sisters could afford to miss these meetings,
thought we should strive to say something 
good of every one. Sister Nancy S. Colton
spoke of the mother’s work; felt it was a 
fine thing to help mothers in raising their 
children. President Pope was pleased with
the larger attendance in the afternoon, but
knew that if all the sisters attended, the 
house would be full. She made a few clos-
ing remarks and adjourned the conference 
for six months; singing, benediction by 
Counselor Elthurah Collett.
	ADDIE LONGHURST, Secretary.
		SAN JUAN STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of the San
Juan stake was held in the Relief Society
hali, Bluff ward, May 7, 1904, President
Mary N. Jones presiding. After singing,
prayer was offered by Sister Adelia Lyman,
followed by singing, then President Jones 
addressed the meeting, reported her labors
in the stake; she had visited the several
wards and found them in good condition.
Six of the branches were reported by their
respective presidents; all were doing a good 
work.
	Counselor Priscilla Warner spoke of the 
Society as a grand organization, thought 
each one should perform every duty and 
requirement in the Gospel. desired to do 
her full duty as a stake officer and at all 
times.
	President Jones was pleased with the 
reports, and referred to the mothers’ work
and the good to be derived if the plan given 
in the WOMAN’S EXPONENT would be car-
rried out; wished all the sisters to have 
family worship in the home; related what 
Apostle Cowley had said and the promises 
he made, that if we would attend to this 
our children would not depart from the 
Gospel; felt we shouid be more diligent in 
caring for our little ones and guard our sons 
and daughters carefully, for if we neglect 
them it will only prove to our sorrow;
wished the sisters living in a grain district
to make special effort to store wheat. The
general and stake officers of the Relief So-
ciety were unanimously sustained. Singing,
benedic ion by Sister Josephine C. Wood.
		LUCINDA REDD, Secretary.
			EMERY STAKE.
	The Relief Society conference of Emery
stake was held at Price, May 24, 1904,
Counselor Maria Guyman presiding. After 
singing, prayer was offered by Sister Anna 
Miller. Ten of the Society branches of the 
stake were represented as in good condition,
temporally and spiritually.
	President Mary A. Sorenson welcomed all
to the conference, including the stake pres-
idency and visiting sisters from the General
Board—Sisters Elizabeth J. Stevenson and 
Carrie S. Thomas; she also read letters from
Sisters Pulsipher and Shipp in answer to 
presents sent them from the stake; reported
the condition of the Society work in the 
stake as flourishing both spiritually and fi-
nancially.
	Verbal reports were given by Sisters R.
E. Robertson of Orangeville, Henrietta Hill
of Wellington and Jane Williams of Emery,
which were encouraging. Lecture on 
Motherhood by Maria Christensen of Cleve-
land, which was an able effort and well 
rendered. Sister E. J. Stevenson spoke on 
the organization of the Relief Society by 
the Prophet Joseph Smith, also spoke upon


[Column 1]
the great mission of motherhood and re-
ferred to many other subjects—parliamen-
tary usage, pu[-]ctuality, the teachers, their
mission, temple work, storing grain. Morn-
ing session closed with prayer by Sister
Caroline Robb.
	Afternoon session. Prayer was offered
by Elder J. A. Williams; the general and
and local officers of the Society were sus-
tained. Verbal reports were given by Sis-
ters Tidwell of Sunnyside, Alice Whimpey
of Cleveland and Esther Grange of Hunt-
ington. Instrumental music by Jean
Leonard of Huntington. Sister Jane C.
Seeley of Mt. Pleasant spoke of seeing the
Prophet Joseph Smith and the persecutions
of the Saints. Sister Jane C. Peterson of
Castledale spoke of the nobility of mother
hood and that we should appreciate the
blessings we receive today. Song rendered
by Anna Miller, “Sunshine in your heart
today.”
	Sister Carrie S. Thomas spoke upon
mother’s work and education, she also re-
lated a story to illustrate her subject;
said the world was improving and so should
we.
	Sister Pauline Pace reported the Price
Society, its condition and work. Sister
E. Lamson announced the Primary con-
ference to convene May 25. President R.
G. Miiller congratu ated the Relief Society
on having the best teachers in the Church,
eulogized the labors of the stake officers,
and blessed them and the good work.
	President Mary A. Sorenson suggested
that the Relief Society have scales and
weigh the wheat that is loaned, that they
may have justice; announced an evening
meeting and that Sister Stevenson would
remain and talk to them. Benediction by
President John A. Pace.
	At the evening session Sisters King of
Ferron, Allen of Castledale and Hitchcock
of Clawson wards, reported.
	Sister Stevenson occupied the remainder
of the evening in speaking upon the Relief
Society, her acquaintance with the leaders
of the Church, and her recent visit to the
Indian school in Arizona and the Relief
Society in Mexico.
	MARY A. SORENSON, President.

