	SALT LAKE CITY. UTAH, JUNE, 1904


[Column 1]
THIRTY-THIRD VOLUME.
	This number of the paper opens the 
thirty-third year of the WOMAN'S EXPON-
ENT, and one cannot help feeling there is 
some prestige attached to a woman’s paper
that has stood so long for the best princi-
ples of right and righteousness. For the 
work of women along all lines that are 
really uplifting, no one can deny, if careful
investigation is made of what the paper ad-
vocates, that this is true.
	The women correspondents who contrib-
ed largely and often to its contents in the 
earlier volumes have many of them passed 
behind the veil, and some have perhaps 
grown weary of writing. In mentioning
the names who did much to make a success 
of the undertaking we must of course pay
the first tribute to Louisa L. Greene Rich-
ards (then Miss Greene) the first editor;
she is still prominent in literary work,
but more for the children in the Juvenile 
Instructor, and seems especially adapted to 
that line of work, which so few men, or 
women are qualified for.
	Our beloved poet, Eliza R. Snow, comes
next in this case How we all miss her 
brave, inspiring words! We can never be 
too grateful for her help in literary and or-
ganized work for women.
	Hannah T. King, every one will recall 
her prose as well as poetry. Mary Ellen
Kimball, who wrote such sweet and humble
testimonies of the Gospel and the Book of 
Mormon. Wilmirth East, who stood so 
strongly for woman’s enfranchisement, and 
Mary Ann Pratt, who reasoned log-
ically on principles of the Gospel, and our 
own Emily H. Woodmansee, who gave us 
so much real, sound doctrine in her origin-
al poems, and who still lives, though we
see and hear very little of her through the 
EXPONENT; now and then she wakes up to 
the occasion.
	Augusta J. Crocheron, who has written
volumes of poetry and prose. We are often
asked, “What has become of her?’’ She
too must have grown weary, though she 
has done such good work in the past and 
so much of it.
	There was one called "Hope," she is 
still living somewhere in Mexico, laboring 
hard in the Gospel field, we are told. She 
must be still in the prime of life and some-
time we may hear from her again.
	Dr. Ellis R. Shipp occasionally contri-
butes yet, and we are always glad to hear
from her, and Lydia D. Alder has done

[Column 2]
much towards helping the paper along—
she is now in Germany and might give us
some spicy "write ups" of the Quinquen-
nial.
	Dr. Romania B. Pratt, who was once on 
our list of contributors, seems to have for-
gotten all about it in her busy life for hu-
manity.
	Annie Wells Cannon, with her large
family of little folks and many household
cares, finds time to give an occasional story 
or poem at Christmas time, and now that 
she is doing double duty in other ways 
with the Pioneer Stake of Zion, we can
hardly expect very much from her, al-
though the more one does the greater ca-
pacity one has for doing
	We are all busy women in this Church,
but we must necessarily do a great deal of 
thinking, and ought to give expression to 
the best thoughts we have for the benefit of
others who need it, or who may profit by it 
in days to come, for what “is written re-
mains,” and is on record.
	The WOMAN'S EXPONENT is preserved,
and it is precious to those who have an inter-
est in woman's work. President Young was 
anxious the sisters should not only take
the paper, but take care of it, for ‘it would
be,” he said, the “record of their lives and
work,’’.and this is true, and all who ex-
amine its pages know it contains much
useful information on many subjects and 
would help the young mothers in their 
homes, if they would read it with under-
standing hearts. It certainly ought not to
lack for support to make it more regular 
and better worthy of the appreciation it de-
serves; if the sisters could only realize its 
importance they would not neglect to speak
of it in their meetings, and urge its main-
tenance.


[Column 1]
A DECADE OF SERVICE.
	Everybody knows the name of Lucy
Stone; throughout the length and breadth
of this land, and even lands afar off, her
name has become a household word be-
cause of her great work for woman and
for humanity. Her daughter, Miss Alice
Stone Blackwell, has followed in her moth-
er’s footsteps and with the larger oppor-
tunity afforded woman now a-days, may
even accomplish greater things.
	At Fanueil Hall, Boston, on May 30, a
banquet was given by the Armenians in
honor of Miss Blackwell, because of the
loving service she had rendered to that
oppressed people for ten years. She was
presented on this occasion with a beauti-
ful life-sized portrait of herself, painted
by an Armenian artist. The portrait was
covered with American and Armenian
flags, and placed in the center of the dec
orated platform of the hall. About two
hundred Armenians and a sprinkling of
Americans sat down to an excellent supper
enlivened by music.” Archbishop Hovsef
Seradjian gave the “grace” at table. Two
little Armenian children unveiled the por-
trait after the banquet, and the audience
applauded warmly. The Archbishop read
a document in Armenian which was trans-
lated by Rev. Dr. Theodore Isaac, and set
forth in glowing terms the indefatigable
labors and sympathy of Miss Blackwell
during the days of dire suffering and afflic-
tion that came upon that persecuted race.
It is quite impossible to tell what this
young woman has done, but in the study
of their literature she has enriched her

[Column 2]
own fertile mind and brain and enlightened
the world on their question. After learn-
ing the language Miss Blackwell translated
into English verse sixty Armenian poems.
These represent a variety of authors, and
she has receiv d many congratulatory
news notices from the best papers in the
United States. Frances Willard said: “These
poems reveal as by a search-light the deep-
est qualities of the Armenian character.
They show forth an ingrained heroism and
an ardent aspiration worthy of the martyr
people of this so-called Christian century.
No generous man or woman can read them
without instinctively desiring to send help
to a people capable of thoughts so lofty
and sentiments so tender.”
	It was a fitting time to choose for such a
commemoration—and Miss Blackwell in
her response to the address made in the
presentation said: “Decoration Day which
we are keeping all over the country, began
forty years ago in memory and sorrow over
the dead  *  *  *  We meet today under
sorrowful circumstances We had all our
hearts wrung yesterday by reading of the
slaughter of the inhabitants of forty-three
Armenian villages. It does not seem like
a time for feasting or rejoicing, but rather
for all of us to be sad.” *   *
	The toastmaster of the occasion in intro-
ducing the next speaker, said: We have
no king in this country, but we have a
queen and she is with us tonight—Mrs.
Julia Ward Howe”
	Mrs. Howe, in opening her address, said:
“I am almost as much overpowered as Miss
Blackwell, who said that she might have to
hide under the table. If I were young and
active, I think I shouid myself execute
such a manoeuvre.”
	Mrs. Howe was followed by Mrs. Mary A.
Livermore, who had driven from Melrose,
eight miles in the rain to be present.
	Mrs. Howe is eighty-five years of age,
Mrs. Livermore eighty-four. Both these
women had done very much for the Ar-
menian cause and related many experi-
ences.
	The other speakers were Isabel C Bar-
rows, William Loyd Garrison, Henry B.
Blackwell and Prof. Wm G. Ward. Prof.
Ward spoke of the American battleships
then in the Mediterranean and urged that
petitions be sent to Secretary John Hay,
asking him to have these ships used to
overcome the Sultan and in connection
with other powers to put an end to the Ar-
menian atrocities.”
	The entire proceedings were full of inter-
est, music, poetry and song, all significant
of gratitude
	A flashlight photograph was taken at 
the table—the Archbishop at the head,
Mrs. Howe next, Mrs. Livermore close by.
The Archbishop and Dr. Isaac, in the dark,
flowing robes of the Armenian clergy, with
“ecclesiastical jewels on their breasts,”
but were still more adorned by their mag-
nificient beards worn after the fashion of
the Eastern lands.


