IN MEMORIAM.
	In memory of Sister Isabella Sharp Carlisle who
departed this life March 29, 1904, at her home in
Mill Creek. She was born in Mission, England,
December 21, 1832, embraced the Gospel in 1850,
and emigrated to Utah in 1851. She was the
mother of 13 children, six have preceded her to
the spirit world, she leaves five sons and two
daughters, all faithful Latter-day Saints.
	Sister Carlisle was one of the first to join the
Relief Society when it was organized in the ward
in 1868, and she was a great support to it financi-
ally.
	She was presiding teacher in the third district,
which position she held up to the time of her
death; she was faithful in the discharge of her
duties, and was one who could be depended upon;
her sympathy was always extended to the poor
and oppressed, and one on whom they could rely
for aid. She was first counselor in the Primary
Association, third district, twenty-one years; she
was a wise and efficient one to whom you could
always turn for counsel. She was honorably re- 
leased by Bishop James C. Hamilton. The writer
has been a friend and neighbor of Sister Carlisle
since the year 1857, and in all the changing scenes
of life has always found her true and faithful, do-
ing her utmost for the good of the Society in
which she was well loved and respected. Fare-
well, dear sister, a crown of glory awaits you pre-
pared for the righteous.
	The funeral services were held in the Mill Creek
Ward house, where a large concourse of friends
met to pay their last respects to their co-laborer in
the work of the Lord, Bishop Hamilton presiding.
The speakers paid a high tribute to her exemplary
life and conduct. The singing was very impres-
sive and sweet, the decorations of the house, the
floral emblems all were in perfect harmony; many
sorrowing relatives and friends followed the re-
mains to the Mill Creek cemetery.

	It is our sad duty to record the death of our dear
and gifted Sister Clara E. S. Carlisle, daughter of
John F. and Elizabeth Snedaker and beloved wife
of Francis D. Carlisle. She was born in Mill
Creek ward October 1, 1870, and departed this life
May 4, 1904 She leaves a husband, three children,
mother, brothers, sisters and a host of friends to
mourn her loss. Sister Clara had been afflicted
with rheumatism for several years but no one
thought the end was so near. She had borne her


trials with so much fortitude and patience. She
lived an exemplary life, devoted to home and to 
the work of the Lord. 
	She was a graduate of the University, Salt Lake
City, and was a successful school teacher. She
was secretary in the Sabbath school, also presi-
dent of the Y. L. Association of the ward for a
number of years. Afterward she was called to act
as aid in the Y. L Association of the Salt Lake
Stake which position she held until sickness
caused her to resign. She was appointed to the
office of treasurer in the Relief Society. October
1, 1901, and held the office at the time of her
death. In all of  these duties she was faithful
and true to her duty, nothing we can say will
enhance her character for she was known as a
pure and noble woman, and she has gone to re-
ceive her reward.
	Funeral services were held in the Mill Creek
ward house, Bishop Hamilton presiding The
speakers paid a high tribute to her worth as a true
Latter-day Saint, consoling remarks were made
to the bereaved husband, who feels the loss very
keenly, being away from home at the time of her
death, also to the relatives and friends.
	The singing was beautifully impressive, con-
ducted by Brother Cornwall. The decorations
were all in perfect harmony, the floral offerings all
spoke of the love and respect of the dear departed
one. There was a large concourse of friends pres-
ent and many followed the remains to the ceme-
tary where Sister Clara was laid away to await
the resurrection of the righteous.
			MARY B. HAMILTON, Prest.,
