ITEMS FROM BERLIN.
	We have published some extracts from
Mrs. Horne’s letter in her travels toward
Berlin and wish we could give more par-
ticulars of the congress than the election of
officers but at this writing it is all we have
except from a postal dated June 15. Mrs.
Horne states she is to speak on the 17th,
and 18th in the Congress and she mentions
Mrs. Emily S. Richards and Mrs. Ida S.
Dusenberry as having reached there.
	Letters from Charlotte Perkins Gilman
and Rev. Anna H. Shaw in the Boston
Woman’s Journal contain some spicy para-
graphs and we quote here concerning
“Susan B.” Mrs. Gilman says in her let-
ter from the steamer going over, “Our
grand old woman has been on deck every
day of the trip, has not missed a meal, and
her sister Mary Anthony is with her in vig-
or and cheerfulness.”
	Miss Shaw writing from Berlin says:
“You will realize how well Miss Anthony


is when I tell you that at Bremen the day
after we landed she was able to take a long
drive, and attend a reception given by the
Woman’s Council and make an address.
The following day she came to Berlin, set-
tled in her hotel and on the folowing morn-
ing was up early for the opening of the
Suffrage Conference. She presided all the
time except Friday afternoon. On Satur-
day she called the meeting to order at 9 a.
m. and presided with only a lunch intermis-
sion till 5.30 p. m., then took a drive for
two hours, and attended the reception from
8.30 to 11 p. m. and said she was not
tired.


The meeting of the International Coun-
cil of Women closed on the afternoon of
June 18 with an enormous crowd.
	“The Philharmonic Hall was overfilled,
and a large overflow meeting was held in
an adjacent hall, where the speeches made
in the Philharmonic Hall were repeated.
The leading speaker in the main hall was
Mrs. Charlotte Perkins Gilman, who dis-
cussed Prof. Lester F. Ward’s theory of the
biological origin of sex. Mrs. Gilman
turned the theory to account, discussing in
brilliant way the relations between the
sexes of to-day, claiming that society will
not be perfect till women participate in all
human interests equally with men. Helene
Lange discussed the ultimate aims of the
woman movement. Lady Aberdeen, pres-
ident of the International Council, cordially
thanked the German organizers for the
splendid success of the congress. Frau
Marie Stritt, of Dresden, president of the
German league, declared the congress ad-
journed, amid a scene of great enthusiasm.
The American delegates, as the German
attendants point out, made a general im-
pression, owing to the superiority of their
oratory, clear concise statements and dis-
tinct, deliberate speaking. Mrs. Carrie
Chapman Catt, the Rev. Anna H. Shaw,
and Mrs. Gilman developed into great fav-
orites with the audiences, and Miss Susan
B. Anthony received an ovation whenever
she interjected the fewest simple remarks,
often writing autographs in the intervals
for her German admirers. On the evening
of June 18 the municipality gave the dele-
gates a great farewell reception at the City
Hall.”


“The Empress of Germany has won the
hearts of the American delegates to the
women’s congress. She glanced along the
row of women, and noticing the venerable
form of Susan B. Anthony, she sent one of
her maids of honor for a chair and begged
her to be seated. Miss Anthony declined
for a time, and yielded ouly to the insist-
ence of the Empress, who herself remained
standing. As the Empress walked along
the line, she was made acquainted with the
name and country of each delegate, and
then, whether English, French, Italian or
Dutch, she, with surprising versatility, ad-
dressed each delegate in her own language,
each spoken with marked purity of accent
and without the least hesitation. Her
guests were amazed. To most of them she
spoke only a word or two, but when she
reached Miss Anthony, she said: “What a
long journey you have taken! How do
you like Berlin? I know your long life’s
work, and your position in the Council of


Women.’ Miss Anthony replied: ‘I hope
your husband, the Emperor, will vie with
the United States in endeavoring to place
German women on an equality with men,
and that he will devote his attention to this
as well as to augmenting the commercial
greatness of his country.’ The Empress
answered: ‘Men are very slow to compre-
hend the equality of women with them-
selves.’ Miss Anthony then told the Em-
press about her last visit to Berlin, when
she met the Empress Frederick. As the
Empress went along the line, she showed
that she knew all about the women’s move-
ment in each country, with the names of
the leaders and all about them. Having
gone down the line, the Empress retraced
her steps, and on reaching Miss Anthony
again, said: ‘You are my honored guest
on this occasion, dear Miss Anthony,’
Then, again shaking hands with Miss
Anthony, and bowing to her guests, she
withdrew. A great mass meeting in favor
of woman suffrage was held in Philhar-
monic Hall on the evening of June 17.
Miss Susan B. Anthony, Mrs. Carrie Chap-
man Catt, and the Rev. Anna Shaw spoke
for the United States.”


