	PLAYTHINGS FOR THE SUNDAY BOX.—

	Building blocks, Noah’s Ark, kindergar-
ten blocks, colored pencils, Bible games or 
any thing that will entertain a child in a 
quiet way. Children must have something 
to employ them, even if it is Sunday. 
	TEACH THEM TO THINK OF OTHERS 
ON SUNDAY.—A quiet drive or a walk in 
the country with parents are all in harmony
with the day. Let them gather flowers for 
some old lady, autumn leaves for a sick 
friend or berries for a playmate.
	Let them cut pictures and make a scrap-
book for little friends, etc. Hallow all 
these pastimes with loving thoughts of the 
dear Father in Heaven who wants us to be 
kind to His other children who are poor, 
sick or neglected.

	CHURCH DUTIES--Encourage the chil-
dren to help mother so she may visit the 
Sabbath School and be interested in the 
work. Take time to ask about the teacher 
listen to the little lesson.
	After the evening meal, that all have 
helped prepare, mother may read stories 
from the Bible, Book of Mormon and teach 
many beautiful lessons from good pictures. 
Teach the Books of the Bible and where 
to find them. 
After the story encourage discussion.
Sing with the children hymns and songs 
suited to the day. Make Sundays at home 
delightful to look upon in after years. 
M. L. G. 
Lecture 12.—Kindergarten work at Home. 

	“Come let us live with our children"-
Froebel. 

[Column 2]
	Mothers who live at a distance from a
Kindergarten may find some occupation,
in the Kindergarten “gifts and occupa-
ions” to help them in training their chil-
dren at home. 
	THE FIRST GIFT presented to baby 
when he begins to observe is the ball A set 
of six colored balls, blue, yellow, red, green 
orange and purple. The child learns color
form, motion and many little helpful 
games. Exercise the faculty of “make-
believe,” which is the dearest delight to 
the child.

	THE SECOND GIFT is a wooden sphere, 
cylinder and cube. These also are made 
the medium of many simple games in which 
the child is kept active.

