[Vol43 | June 1956 | Sequence: 05 | Category: Article | Title: Appreciation McKay]
~_ Appreciation for the Singing Mlothers &xpressed by President David ©. MeKay (At the closing session of the 126th General Conference of the Church) E have said "thank you" to the members of the Choirs, but let me mention them again.... We appreciate what they did our Singing Mothers. I cannot mention the name "mother" without being overcome with emotion. 'Those mothers who furnished that singing were the mothers of 1600 children! Even their title, "Singing Mothers," tells a story of sacrifice, a story of love, a story of home. No wonder they could sing the songs of Zion so inspirationally under the masterful leadership of Sister Florence Jepperson Madsen. Heart's Bounty CHAPTER 1 Deone R. Sutherland NNIE stood by the wagon and A itorse saying a last goodbye to her mother and_ brothers and their little mountain cabin. Her father strapped her box in the back of the wagon. "You hold up your head, Annie Gniftith,"' her mother said. "You don't have to go, if you don't want to. But a mountain's no place for a girl to get higher education, and Brother and Sister Williams' offer to have you taught right along with their daughter Marie, until your father's mission is over, cutting stone for the temple, is a wonderful opportunity, and an answer to our prayers." "I know." Annie lifted her eyes to the mountains where the brush was turning orange and _ brown through all the heavy green. "The Griffiths owned property in the old country, and don't you forget it, Annie. And we own property here, too. In another three or four years, when the temple's finished, we'll be back on our own farm, and you'll be home again, a young lady." Her eyes turned to her husband, who tightened a rope and felt the tautness of it. "You be careful, Mister Griffith." "There's no need to be saying that," smiled Annie's father, as he took his wife in his arms, and then kissed each of the wriggling boys. "Here now," he said sternly, "you kiss your sister Annie. She'll be all grown, with her hair up and everything, likely, before you have her home to live again." They grudgingly let Annie peck their cheeks. "Fourteen now, she is," said her mother, sighing. She smoothed Annie's hair with her long fingers, and then turned her to the wagon. Annie climbed up on the seat. "You're a pretty girl, Annie," her father said, climbing in beside her. "But don't you go giving yourself airs, ever." "I won't, Papa." She kissed his cheek and threw kisses to her mother and the boys while a bird sang wildly overhead. Her father started the team and the grind of the wheels shut out most other sounds on the long, hard trip to Salt Lake. The first night they slept in the back of the wagon. Annie watched the stars through the trees, while trying to feel out the homesickness she knew was couched somewhere, like not quite daring to touch a sore tooth with your tongue. Her father reached over and put his hand across her eyes. She soon went to sleep. The next night they stopped at a friend's house in a tiny, mudspattered village. She and her father made their beds on the floor. She was too exhausted more than to glance at the log and sod ceiling before she fell asleep. On the fourth day they drove inPage 367 368 Annie houses and the to the city of Salt Lake. Stared at the big stores. 'There were so many of them! Her father had to ask directions twice about the Williams' house. I "Is it there, Papa?"' Annie stared at the big stone house with the iron fence running around the yard. "It has some kind of little tower, even, Father." "Some kind of foolishness, at any rate. The Williams are wonderful people for all that." He climbed heavily down from the wagon. Annie stepped out on the carriage block and saw a lace curtain move at one of the windows. She turned and stared at the wagon. "Tll take you in before I start loosening your box." NNIE followed her _— father " through the iron gate up the path to the house. He swung the knocker once and the door opened almost immediately. "Ts it the Griffiths?" A_ tall, brown-haired woman smiled at them. "I'm Mrs. Williams' sister. She'll be down immediately. I've already told her you've come, Brother Griffith. Annie dear, this ls my niece Marie. You're going to share Marie's room as well as her studies. You'll be great playmates, I'm sure. Oh, yes, I'm Aunt Agnes Foster." "Thank you, Sister Foster." Mr. Griffith followed her into the parlor and sat on the only wooden chair in the room. "I'm too dusty to be sitting on satin and embroidery like that," he said. Annie hung back by the door. Marie whirled around on a piano stool and tapped a key, while her RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 yellow curls swung forward over her shoulder. "Marie, dear," her aunt reproved her. "Ah, a piano." Annie's father's eyes lit up. "Now, we're a people who love music. Annie sings like a nightingale. You'll love a rarity like that, Annie." Marie and Sister Foster looked at Annie. Annie felt the blood rush to her face. Sister Williams came in the door. "Have they been teasing you already, Annie dear?" She put an arm around Annie's shoulder. "I'm not very well." She shook hands with Annie's father. "I spend more time than I should having to rest." "I hope Annie'll be something of a help and not too much of a both- > Cl "Oh, yes, yes, we'll love having a sister for Marie. Marie's always lonely. Well, you can all clean up and rest before dinner. Brother Williams will be so interested in a full report—in hearing about everything. You planned to _ start back?" "In the morning." Mr. Griffith started to the door. "I'll bring in Annie's box; then there's lots I've to do this day. I've a long list of supplies to buy. I can rest enough later tonight." "Well, anyway, Marie can take Annie up and help her unpack and show her everything." Sister Wéilliams waved the girls to the stairway. "Haven't you ever seen a mirror before?" asked Marie. She put her head down beside Annie's, and they stared at their reflections. "Not one so big." Annie plaited HEART'S BOUNTY her hair slowly while Marie watched. "T like curls better, though I daresay your hair is very becoming." Marie smiled at her quickly. "You do have the loveliest eyes. Whoever heard of blue eyes with hair that black?" "I have my mother's eyes," said Annie proudly. "I think your curls are just beautiful. My hair would never go like that." "Well, you could loosen it at the sides like this, so it could curl just a little. Isn't that better?" Marie leaned back and looked critically at Annie. "We'd better hurry," Annie said. "We won't be any help at all, if we don't." "Don't worry,' laughed Marie. "You're still too new. They won't make us do too much yet awhile." But the girls hurried downstairs through the dining room, the kitchen, and the pantry. 'They were soon put to work. Y the time Annie finished eating dinner she could hardly keep her eyes open, though she tried to keep them fastened on her father as long as possible. It couldn't be true that this was the last meal with him for a good many months, perhaps a year. Already the mere thought of her mother and brothers tightened her throat and brought tears stinging to her eyes. She was more exhausted than she realized from the long wagon trip. Sister Williams stood up after a short visit in the parlor. "I really think we should get the girls to bed early tonight. Annie's had such a long trip, she can hardly stay awake." Annie kissed her father goodnight 369 after they had family prayers. He patted her shoulder with his rough hand and assured her he'd wake her in the morning before he started out. She was to wait to say goodbye then, and she was not to think of a thing tonight but sleep. Marie went grumbling up the stairs with Annie, protesting that she wasn't a bit sleepy. Annie washed and changed into her nightgown by candlelight. 'The feather tick enveloped her at once, and she was asleep in the warm softness before she'd even had a chance to remark on how lovely the moonlight was through their tall, narrow bedroom window. Annie awoke with a terrible feeling of not knowing for a moment where she was. 'Then her father's face came close to her ear. "Wake up, Annie, and dress. I must be off, and you may come downstairs and say goodbye. The wagon's loaded, honey. Are you awake?" There was no need for the question, for Annie's eyes were like two saucers. She slid out of bed, and was into her dress in no time at all. Buttoning her shoes took forever, it seemed to Annie, because her hands had begun to tremble a little, and her fingers seemed all thumbs. Now that she was up and awake, she could hear voices downstairs. She pulled back the lace curtain at the window. Yes, her father's wagon was loaded and ready. 'They were hitching the team up now. Brother Williams tightened the ropes holding the supplies on the wagon. She didn't know the other young man helping lfer father. Her father was tall, but that boy seemed almost taller. 370 Annie had no time to comb her hair and rebraid it. She wet her fingers and pushed at the sides. She was ashamed to do that; certainly her mother would hardly be proud of that. But she had no more time, she thought desperately. 'They should have awakened her earlier. She could have helped load the wagon, and she would have had more time to be with her father. She ran down the stairs and tugged at the front door. Sister Walliams called to her, and she had to go back for a shawl Sister Williams was holding. He'd be gone before she even got outside, she thought in anguish. "It's an unkindness to keep you, Annie, but I don't want you to catch your death before you've been with us a day." Sister Williams smiled at her while Annie made her pounding heart subside.