[Vol43 | June 1956 | Sequence: 14 | Category: Article | Title: Diamonds | Author: Luce]
Diamonds and People Celia Luce I held a diamond in the sunlight. It sent sparkles of rainbow hues in every direction. It took ordinary sunlight and reflected it back in a thousand beams of beauty. I know people who are like diamonds. They take ordinary life and give to it a sparkle of beauty. They do more than just what is expected, and are always finding ways to make life glow with happiness for those around them. 'They add color and sparkle to everyday life, changing it from a drab existence to a glorious adventure. Many of us are like a mirror, instead of a diamond. We give back to the world just what is expected of us, mirroring back what the world insists on. We too seldom add the sparkle of thoughtfulness. We could reflect back the golden shine of the glowing sun, if we chose. But that is too much trouble. We do well what is expected of us, but no more. Some of us are like a black cloth. It absorbs most of the light and gives back very little to the world. It is selfish. It is no coincidence that black is the color of trouble, grief, and death. May God help us all to find the diamond sparkle. Page 376 'Virtue: is its own Reward VIRTUE is its own reward There is more to marriage than music and moonlight; there is trust and sharing. And being loved and deserving to be. There is companionship through years of growing up and growing old together. And to each partner in an honest marriage there will come a time when nothing will be more inet than personal purity. And it will not be just at some passing hour — but day after day, year after year — as long as you look at your loved ones — as long as you can feel, in reality or in memory, the small hand of a son or daughter as it closes around your finger. You — each of you — should take no less to marriage than personal purity. You have a right to expect it of the companion you choose — you have a sacred obligation to keep it and to offer it in return. The rewards of virtuous living are rich and enduring, but the price of sin runs high. The reward of virtue is a quiet conscience — the right to answer every question without reservation — the right to look everv man squarely in the eye, and every boy and girl and woman also — without an accusing conscience. It is the right to pass on to your children and your children's children a clean record, a clean heritage, a good name. You cannot cheat. You cannot avoid consequences. So be virtuous. BE HONEST WITH YOURSELF untae fs its own ineward Bnd 'tedse ae its rewarde: Peace of mind is Jove af loved ones: ngme Be 1 ae seo. The confidence of family § pa The strength of personal purity The trust 'of your children The sense of purpose in life here An assurance of everlasting life with these you love $ of peace _ ard limitless progress herealter i AML this is yours far ' keeping the commandments Be true ta your friends, your family your Father in Heaven in other words - Be Honest With Yourself Commencing with this inspiring message to its young men and young women, the Church takes a significant step forward in its crusade to teach and encourage high moral and ethical conduct among its members. The key to this new series of inspirational sermonettes is largely one of "self interest" in the true sense. Its central theme is "Be Honest with Yourself." When our young people — and those who are not so young — learn the age-old lesson that virtue, like honesty, temperance, and clean, healthful, happy living are right because they are good for the individual and for society, the world will be a better place. Page 377 RECIPES FROM CENTRAL AMERICA 379 2 Onions, chopped 2 Ibs. Pork cut into 1-inch Cubes 3 cloves 8arlic minced 1 Ib. Beef cut mto 1-inch Cubes 4 tbsp. Chopped Parsley 2 02. Ham cut into small Cubes 3 Corander Seeds 1 tomato chopped 1 bay leaf 3 potatoes, Peeled and Cubed 3 tbsp. Lemon or lime juice 1% c. Cubed Squash or Pumpkin 1 tbsp. Salt 2 green bananas, sliced ¥, Inch thick 1 tbsp. Pepper 1 Spanish-sty Je 'ausage (Cherizo ) Ejorrs ENVUEL 105 EN JUEVo (String Beans with Egg) Ibs. Fresh string beans ~ C888 separated 1% tsp. Salt at for d GALLo EN Cuca (Rooster in "Chicha"') 1 large Tooster, cut for frying 2 pleces garlic 2 Ibs, chopped pe tomatoes 6 tbsp. Fat 4 onions, chopped "2 tsp, black Pepper "2 Ib. Dried Prunes salt to taste Ingredients for making "Chicha" 1 ¢. Brown sugar } C. Warm water 1 C. Vinegar "2 tsp. Dry yeast To Prepare "chicha," mix vinegar and Water with brown Sugar and yeast in glass or similar Container and allow to stand at room temperature for 4 to 6 hours, lS Teady, fry in frying Pan the picces of rooster in fat till brown: then place Meat with fat in Pressure Cooker, Add tomatocs, onions, 8atlic, salt. And Pepper, and cook mM open Pressure cooker for 15 minutes, stirring Constantly, Ad the chicha," close the Pressure cooker and cook at 15 pounds Pressure for 5 380 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JUNE 1956 Cuapin RICE 2 ¢. Rice' I 4 c. Hot water 2 ripe tomatoes, cut in pieces 1 carrot, cut in strips 1 onion, cut in pieces 1 pimiento chili, chopped 2 pieces garlic % C. Raw peas 3 heaping tbsp. Pork lard ¥% c. Raw string beans, cut 2 tsp. Salt Fry rice in lard with tomatoes, onion, and garlic for 10 minutes; add other vegetables and fry additional 5 minutes, stirring to keep from burning. To this add the hot water and mix together with salt. Cover and leave cooking on low flame for 30 minutes. Do not remove lid or stir until done. When cooked, fluff by gently turning rice with spatula. Serve with "Gallo en Chicha." The rice can be prepared without carrots, peas, string beans, and pimiento chili, for serving with fried beans or other foods. (These last two recipes "Gallo en Chicha" and "Chapin Rice" were submitted by Sister Carmen O'Donnal of Mazatenango, Guatemala.