[Vol43 | June 1956 | Sequence: 03 | Category: Poem | Title: POETRY | Author: Roberts]
[POETRY I Need a Tranquil Hour — Frontispiece Wanda G. Nielson 347 The Rod Dorothy J. Roberts]
CJrom    I  Lear  and  QJar 
Thank  you  for  your  splendid  editorial 
in  the  May  Magazine  ('The  Gift  for 
Mother's  Day"  by  Marianne  C.  Sharp). 
When  I  read  to  my  husband:  "The  most 
precious  gift  which  children  can  give  to 
their  mother  is  the  knowledge  that  they 
are  walking  the  straight  and  narrow  path 
to  immortality  and  eternal  life,"  he  said, 
"Our  children  have  given  you  that  pre- 
cious gift."  So  I  copied  that  paragraph, 
added  a  few  lines  expressing  our  love  and 
appreciation,  and  mailed  a  copy  to  each  of 
our  five  children.  Humbly  and  gratefully 
I  can  say  that  they  are  all  busily  engaged 
in  Church  activities  ....  I  greatly  love 
Relief  Society  and  appreciate  being  a 
member  and  worker  in  that  great  organ- 
ization. The  Magazine  has  been  in  our 
home  since  the  first  volume,  and  it  is 
also  in  the  homes  of  our  children. 
— Adena  W.  Swenson 
Pleasant  Grove,  Utah 
May  I  express  my  appreciation  of  the 
Magazine.  In  May  1955,  the  special  fea- 
ture written  by  Elna  P.  Raymond  — 
"Mother"  —  presented  a  soul-stirring  story 
about  Sister  Haymond's  Grandmother 
Doney  who  came  in  the  Ellsworth  Hand- 
cart Company  in  1856.  I  was  thrilled  to 
read  the  article,  and  should  like  to  say 
that  the  little  daughter  born  on  that 
arduous  trip  is  my  mother,  Mary  Jane 
Doney  Lowe.  She  is  the  mother  of  ten 
children,  nine  of  whom  are  living.  She, 
too,  fought  the  battles  of  life  with  the 
weapons  of  love,  faith,  and  determination. 
I  hope  to  live  that  I  may  be  worthy  of 
the  heritage  she  has  left  us. 
— Bertha  Lowe  Johnson 
Logan,  Utah 
In  the  May  issue  of  The  Relief  Society 
Magazine,  I  especially  liked  the  frontis- 
piece poem  "The  Things  in  You  I  See" 
by  Dorothy  J.  Roberts,  and  the  article 
"Poetry  Is  for  People"  by  Eva  Willes 
Wangsgaard.  I  have  never  read  anything 
on  the  subject  which  expressed  so  aptly 
the  way  I  feel.  Such  contributions  are  a 
joy. 
— Agnes  Just  Reid 
Firth,  Idaho 
Page  418 
I  like  Mrs.  Wangsgaard's  article  on 
poetry  ("Poetry  Is  for  People,"  May 
1956).  It  is  comprehensive  and  scholarly. 
She  is  a  very  talented,  capable  woman — 
one  of  Utah's  best. 
— Gene  Romolo 
Provo,  Utah 
When  my  Magazine  comes,  I  lay  every- 
thing else  aside  until  I  read  it.  More 
than  once  I  have  let  my  dinner  stand  on 
the  table  and  get  cold  while  I  read  the 
Magazine.  Imagine  my  surprise,  when 
reading  the  reports  from  the  different 
wards,  seeing  the  pictures  of  Laura  Brown, 
Hetty  Anderson,  and  Mable  Guymon,  all 
distant  relatives  of  mine.  Thomas  Guy- 
mon "who  went  to  Utah  from  Tenne- 
see"  was  my  great-grandfather.  I  have 
many  relatives  in  Utah,  California,  and 
Idaho.  Oh,  how  I  wish  it  could  be  pos- 
sible to  meet  and  get  acquainted  with  all 
of  them.  The  pictures  are  in  the  May 
1956  issue  of  the  Magazine  —  Emery 
Stake  (Utah),  Huntington  Second  Ward, 
page  336.  I  enjoy  the  Magazine  very 
much  and  hope  I  will  never  be  without 
it.  I  was  eighty-three  years  old  the  28th 
of  last  February. 
— Laura  Guymon  Hawbaker 
Sherman,  Texas 
I  enjoy  The  Relief  Society  Magazine 
because  I  learn  what  other  branches  are 
doing.  I  enjoy  the  poetry,  recipes,  pictures, 
and  the  hobby  features  —  and  I  enjoy  the 
lessons.  I  have  made  some  very  fine 
friendship  pals  through  the  Near  and  Far 
department.  I  also  write  to  over  two 
hundred  shut-ins.  I  don't  remember 
seeing  any  letters  from  this  part  of  Ohio. 
Georgetown  Branch  started  about  seven 
years  ago  with  about  six  members.  We 
now  have  about  163.  Hope  we  continue 
to  grow.  Our  members  are  scattered  and 
some  travel  fifty  miles  to  attend  Church. 
We  have  to  go  about  seventeen  miles. 
■ — Mrs.  William  Ruggles 
Bethel,  Ohio