[Vol43 | June 1956 | Sequence: 35 | Category: Special Feature | Title: "A Thing of Beauty" — Restoration of the Heber C. Kimball Home | Author: Christine H. Robinson]
"A THING OF BEAUTY"
Restoration of the Heber C. Kimball Home
Christine H. Robinson

The woodwork details inside of the house, over the doors and windows, are similar to those used in England during the Regency period — a period which coincided with the Modified Georgian and Federal period in America. On the other hand, the mantle over the fireplace and the irregularly sized floor boards in the Kimball home, are typical Early American in style.

Unlike many of the other Nauvoo houses still standing which were rectangular in design, the Kimball home, as shown in the illustration, was built in two parts. The larger or main part of the house is constructed with one great end wall, handsomely windowed and double chimneyed. Stretching across the entire front of this main part is a beautifully proportioned white framed porch with an upstairs balcony. This architectural treatment, apparently not used on any other houses in Nauvoo, was then popular in the South, particularly in New Orleans, which Heber C. Kimball had visited.

The left wing, or smaller section of the house is slightly recessed with a small white frame portico over the door. Dentil molding, so popular in Georgian architecture, is used as a brick cornice on the house. These dentils are also used as decorative molding on the frame portico. All the windows in the house are framed with louvered green shutters. Early pictures of the house might give the impression that the windows are shutterless. Careful inspection, of these pictures, however, reveals that the shutters were closed and locked for protection — thus preserving much of the old original glass in the windows. The entire architectural structure of the home is one of asymmetrical beauty and simplicity of line.

The main entrance of the house is through an arched doorway opening into a narrow hall which divides the two main structural sections. This main hall stretches the entire depth of the house to a handsome back door, topped with a smallpaned glass transom. On the night, near the front of this hall, is a narrow, steep stairway leading to the floor above. There are six rooms downstairs, including a small room and pantry. The second floor has a corresponding number of rooms with two additional attic rooms in the main section of the house. Additional details of the interior of the house are described later in this article.

Heber C. Kimball — The Man

Heber C. Kimball was born on June 14, 1801, at Sheldon, Vermont, just ten miles from the shores of beautiful Lake Champlain. He was the fourth child in a family of seven. When he was ten years of age the family moved to West Bloomfield, New York, where his father engaged in farming, blacksmithing, and building. In this latter occupation, Heber's father built an academy, two commercial buildings, and several private houses. It is apparent that while his father was engaged in this occupation young Heber learned, early in life, much about the building trade.

As a young man of nineteen, Heber moved in with his older brother Charles, who owned and operated a pottery business in Mendon, New York. Heber soon became skilled at molding pottery and, at twentyone, purchased his brother's business, in which he greatly prospered for the next ten years.

It was when Heber was twentyone years of age that he first met Vilate Murray. She was a refined, intelligent girl of seventeen, who lived in the neighboring town of Victor, New York. One day, while riding on horseback through this small village, Heber became thirsty. Stopping by a house where a gentleman was at work in the garden, he asked for a drink of water. The gentleman called to his youngest daughter Vilate, and asked her to bring a glass of water to the young man. Heber was impressed with the pretty, modest, and courteous young woman and lingered over his glass of water. In fact, he was so impressed that a few days later he stopped by for another drink. This time the father started to draw the water from the well, at which young Heber blushingly admitted that he had hoped to be served by Vilate. When Vilate brought the water, she did so amid the teasing, smiles, and taunts of her brothers and sisters. More visits followed and the two were married November 7, 1822.

Vilate, like many other strongcharactered women who accepted Mormonism, was a loyal and loving helpmate to her husband, supporting and aiding him in all his worthy endeavors. She was also a generous and public-spirited woman who joined with other sisters of the Church in knitting and spinning material to clothe the men who worked on the Kirtland Temple and, later, on the temple in Nauvoo. In each community in which She lived, Vilate sought out the poor and timid, and brought them sustenance for their bodies and comfort to their souls. She was ever "disposed to do good and meet every obligation that devolved upon her." Certainly with her artistic and refined temperament, Vilate must have exercised a remarkable influence upon the life of her husband and, undoubtedly, employed her talents and tastes in helping to plan and furnish the Kimball homes.

While living in Mendon, Heber became acquainted with a young carpenter and cabinet maker by the name of Brigham Young. He found in this new acquaintance, who was also a native of Vermont, a man of kindred interests, background, and ideals. These two soon became fast friends. Thus started a cherished friendship and close association which lasted for the next forty-three years.

Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball learned about the gospel at approximately the same time. With deep sincerity, they accepted its principles and were baptized and confirmed members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in April 1832 — just one day apart. When Brigham Young's first wife passed away, the Kimballs took his two small daughters into their home and cared for them. The two families moved to Kirtland, Ohio, at the same time, where Brigham Young, "being a carpenter, joiner, as well as a painter and glazier," built the Kimball home in this new community.
