[Vol43 | June 1956 | Sequence: 34 | Category: General Feature | Title: From Near and Far]
From Near and Far

I was so impressed with the article "Words to Live By," in the February issue, by Josie B. Bay. I was feeling very depressed the day I read the article, and it made me understand a lot of things, and it enlightened my mind so very much. It seems that each article I read solves a problem for me, so truly I can say that receiving a copy of the Magazine is a blessing for me, and I am so thankful that I have the opportunity to receive such a Magazine. Also, thanks for the article "How We Conduct the Family Hour in Our Home" by Helen S. Gardner (March 1956). I have never held Family Hour in our home yet, but now that my baby is a year old, I want to begin, so that he will grow up to know what it is and also to get me in practice so that we will never forget to have it.
—Mrs. LaVoyce Evans
Hooks, Texas

I so much enjoy reading the letters, lovely poems, and stories in The Relief Society Magazine. Thanks always to my daughter-in-law Mrs. Alene Summers for sending me the subscription. Her kindness has been greatly appreciated.
—Mrs. L. C. Summers
Klamath Falls, Oregon

I am not a member of the Church, but have received so much comfort, encouragement, and enjoyment from The Relief Society Magazine that I want to be sure of receiving all copies. Please renew my subscription.
—Sarah A. Foster
Washington, Illinois

Just a few words of thanks for The Relief Society Magazine. I really enjoy reading it and learn so much from it. I neglect my work when I get my copy the first of each month till I have read it. I am eighty-three years young.
—Elizabeth Clendennen
San Angelo, Texas

The Relief Society Magazine has been a great stimulant for so many women in their interest to learn and work for this great plan of salvation. Through faithful diligence and growing strength, we are combined with two other groups, and by keeping in complete harmony with the Priesthood, we have been able to build a new chapel at Naturita, Colorado. We all hope the circulation of the Magazine will continue to grow and reach more homes, enabling more people to learn and enjoy its true purpose.
—Mrs. Delta N. Williams
Uravan, Colorado

We are pleased to know that the sisters in the mission are taking a greater interest in the Magazine and hope that there will be a still greater number who will subscribe during the coming year. It was worth the price of the Magazine to read the article "Children in the Scriptures" by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr. In the December 1955 issue.
—Nora C. Duncan
President South African Mission Relief Society

I read The Relief Society Magazine thoroughly. It has enlarged and strengthened my testimony to a large degree. The study of this inspirational little Magazine has made me seek to study the gospel in many fields. May God bless you in your work.
—Elene Wiltbank Whetten
Colonia Juarez Chih., Mexico

I thoroughly enjoy my Relief Society Magazine and am impatient each month for its arrival. I especially enjoy the poetry. Besides my art work, poetry is to me like beautiful music. The effect it has on my inner being is one of the necessities of my life.
—Adell R. Palmer
South Jordan, Utah