[Vol43 | June 1956 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Sixty]
[Sixty Years Ago]
NOTES  FROM  THE  FIELD 
399 
Photograph  submitted  by  Genevieve  L.  Anderson 
EAST  LOS  ANGELES  STAKE  (CALIFORNIA),  MISSION  PARK  WARD  RELIEF 
SOCIETY  MEMBERS  MAKE  MULTI  COLORED  HOOKED  RUG 
FOR  RELIEF  SOCIETY  ROOM 
Left  to  right:  Grace  Laidlaw,  President;  Carma  Clark,  Counselor  and  designer  of 
rug;  Fairie  Sessions,  Counselor. 
Genevieve  L.  Anderson,  President,  East  Los  Angeles  Stake  Relief  Society,  reports 
this  interesting  and  worthwhile  project: 
"  'Tis  a  rug  of  many  colors,  like  Joseph's  coat  of  old. 
Loving  hearts  and  hands  have  made  it,  through  hours  of  work  untold." 
"These  lines  from  a  poem  composed  by  Joanne  C.  Duncan,  and  dedicated  to 
Counselor  Fairie  Sessions,  very  well  describe  the  multi-colored  hooked  rug  lovingly  and 
patiently  made  by  Relief  Society  members.  The  exquisitely  hooked  piece,  which  was 
two  years  in  the  making,  consists  of  forty-four  sections  and  will  cover  an  area  fifteen  by 
thirty  feet.  It  was  hooked  by  over  sixty  women  for  the  Relief  Society  room  in  the 
new  chapel,  for  which  ground  was  broken  in  1954.  In  January  of  that  year,  Sister 
Sessions  proposed  that  the  organization  hook  a  rug  for  the  Relief  Society  room  in  the 
new  chapel.  Unanimous  approval  of  her  suggestion  gave  impetus  to  the  project  .... 
A  talented  designer,  Carma  Clark  suggested  a  pattern  that  would  be  effective,  yet  not 
too  difficult.  Thirty  colors  were  used,  and  each  section  consists  of  fifty-four  squares, 
each  five  and  one  half  inches  square.  Special  mention  should  be  made  regarding  the 
devoted  efforts  of  two  sisters,  each  over  seventy  years  of  age,  who  donated  far  more 
than  their  share  of  work  hours:  Josie  Alleman  and  Amanda  Bassett.  The  present  of- 
ficers of  Mission  Park  Ward  Relief  Society  are:  Grace  Laidlaw,  President;  Sarah  Ander- 
son, First  Counselor;  Fairie  Sessions,  Second  Counselor;  Juanita  Foley,  Secretary-Treas- 
urer."