THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
MARCH 1931

Seago MILK fr Puddings Pies" Custards

At All Grocer's

Seven Times Champion of the World on Free

Utah Power & Light Co. A an Eureka Vacuum Cleaner Co. 177 EB. 3rd So. St., Salt Lake City

For Your Comfort? ELECTRIC SERVANTS

The modern home is incomplete without the unequalled advantages of electric servants.

ELECTRIC COOKING ELECTRIC REFRIGERATION ELECTRIC WATER HEATING

Liberal terms on the purchase of all or any one of these appliances make it easy for you to start enjoying them today.

DROP INTO OUR STORE OR PHONE US

UTAH POWER & LIGHT CO. Efficient Public Service

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

L. D. S. GARMENTS FOR ALL SEASONS

Selected from our extensive line of L. D. S. Garments we suggest the following numbers for all seasons wear:

No. 1 New style, ribbed lgt. Wet. cotton with rayon silk stripe. An excellent Ladies number $1.25

No. 2 Old style, ribbed lIgt. Wet. Cotton, our standard summer wet 1.25

No. 3 Ribbed med. wt. Cotton, bleached or unbleached. Our all season number 1.75

No. 4 Hibbeds a hee per double 2.25

No. 5 le wool aan ps ached. ber 3.00

No. 6 Light weight summer garment. Old style or Ladies new style 95

No. 7 Light wet. New or old style, mercerized?silky finish 1.75

No. 8 Light weight Spring and Summer garment. Men only 1.00

No. 9 Light weight silk for ladies only, new style only 1.50

No. 10 Medium wet. Silk for men and women, new style only 1.95

In ordering, be sure to specify whether old or new style garments, three-quarter or ankle length legs, short or long sleeves are wanted. Also give bust measure, height and weight to insure perfect fit. Postage prepaid. Special discount to missionaries.

FACTORY TO YOU?THE ORIGINAL

Utah Woolen Mills Briant Stringham, Manager 28 Richards Street One-Half Block South of Temple Gates

REDUCED COACH FARES via Southern Pacific Lines

$70 SAN FRANCISCO
$20 to LOS ANGELES via San Francisco

Good in warm, clean coaches or reclining chair cars on the "Pacific Limited" or "Fast Mail," via the direct Overland Route over the High Sierra Mountains to San Francisco. Then choice of several trains to Los Angeles. Stopover in fascinating San Francisco, if you wish.

Are you planning a trip? Fill out this coupon and mail to: D. R. OWEN, General Agent, Southern Pacific Co., 41 South Main St., Salt Lake City, Utah.

Please send me full information on a trip to:

Name.

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

L. D. S. GARMENTS

Good grade and well made. When ordering, state Size, New 'or Old Style, Aad if for man or lady.

Postage prepaid. Sample on request.

147 Spring Needle, Flat Weave $1.10
82 Combed Cotton, Lt. Wt. 1.50
208 Lt. Wt. Rib. Double Card Cot 1.35
222 Rayon Striped Combed Cot 1.65
268 Med. Wt. Rib. Double Card Cot. 1.85
628 Merc. Lisle Light Wt. 2.00
908 Unblecahed Cot. Ex. Hvy. 2.75
608 Ladies' New Style Extra Lt. Wt. Combed Cot 1.25
302 Ladies' New Style, Rayo
807 Men's New Style, Rayon
748 Unbleached Cot., Hvy. Wt 2.00
754 Bleached Cot., Hvy. Wt. 2.25
1118 Wool and Cotton Mixed 3.50

BARTON & GO. Established tn Utah 45 Years 142 WEST SOUTH TEMPLE ST. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH

O. P. S. BREAD

O. P. S. Bread?the good, fine-textured, cake-like bread that our customers like so well?is made from the finest of hard, local wheat flour. Fleischmann's Yeast also goes into its making, as well as Open Kettle Rendered Grainy Lard?more expensive and finer than ordinary lards. And the sugar we use is Utah beet, the finest obtainable anyplace.

"A Surety of Purity"

L. D. S. GARMENTS Direct From Factory

You are guaranteed unusual wear and satisfaction from Cutler Garments. They are made from the best long wearing, two combed yarns.

No. 68 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Cotton Non 'Run R at L
No. 74 Ribbed Lt. 'Wt. Cotton eon yo a ong Legs or 2.00
No. 84 Rib. Mercerized Lisle. Back 1.19
Double Back
No. 62 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Bleached 1.65
No. 39 Ribbed Hvy. Wt. 50% Wool 3.50
No. 61 Ribbed Med. Hvy. Unbleached mle bak 1.65
No. 67 Med. Wt. Part Wool 1.69
Non Run Rayon, Elbow and Knee

WHITE TEMPLE PANTS
Length 1.50 8 oz... Heavy Duck 1.95

SPECIAL MISSIONARY DISCOUNTS

In ordering garments please state if for men or women and if old or new styles are wanted. Also give bust, height and weight. Sizes above 48?20% extra.

Marking 15c. Postage Prepaid.

Special?When you order three pair of garments at one time we allow you a 15% discount on third pair only.

UNDERWEAR GARMENTS

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magaztne

No. 76 Ribbed Lt. Wt. Lisle
No. 63 Lt. Med. Unbleached Double
No. 64 Ribbed Lt, Med. Cotton 1.19
No. 56 Ribbed Hvy. Cotton, bleached 1.98
No. 55 Ribbed Hvy. Cot., unbleached
No. 27 Ribbed Med. Wt. 50% Wool 2.85
No. 32 Silk and Wool 3.95

Ask for one of our folders describing the different services we offer.

LAUN DRW Hyland 190 Distinctive Work Office 319 S, Main St.

The Study of the BOOK OF MORMON Will Continue For Another Year

The Most Helpful Book in This Course is

Message and Characters of the BOOK OF MORMON

BY JOHN HENRY EVANS

By Special Arrangement We Are Able to Offer a Limited Number of This Excellent Book at $2.95 Postpaid

Cash With the Order

Send Your Order Now and Be Sure of Getting Your Copy

DESERET BOOK COMPANY Salt Lake City, Utah

Pleasant Profitable Work for Women WHO MUST SUPPORT THEMSELVES

This Work Recommended by Presidents of Relief Society Throughout the Church

Write EVERBEST PRODUCTS, Salt Lake City

Giving Reasons of Wanting Work

When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine

Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Room 20 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah
$1.00 a Year?Single Copy, 10c?Foreign, $1.25 a Year
Itntered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah
Phone Wasatch 3123
Organ of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints Room 20 Bishop's Bldg., Salt Lake City, Utah $1.00 a Year—Single Copy, 10c—Foreign, $1.25 a Year Itntered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah Phone Wasatch 3123 
A Famous Overall Made Better Still! ?NOW THAT MOUNTAINEER OVERALLS Equipped Wp a 4 The new, exclusive, patented feature that has aroused the enthusiasm of workmen everywhere. Saves time, saves tools and valuables?and saves temper. THEY COST YOU NO MORE! Ask Your Dealer for Mountaineer Overalls and Work Suits Equipped With Stop-Loss Pockets Manufactured in Salt Lake City by Z. C. M. I. Clothing Factory MESSAGE AND CHARACTERS OF THE BOOK OF MORMON BY JOHN HENRY EVANS Published to Sell at $6.00 Now Available to Relief Society Workers At $2.95 Postpaid Cash With the Order This Offer For a Limited Time Only?Order Of DESERET BOOK COMPANY Salt Lake City, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine ELDER JOSLPH F SMITH JH | ADMINISTRATION BLDG TAST SO TEMPLE CITY big Boquets for Mother Are All Too Few? IS Why not give this Subject real serious thought Stop and consider how very much we all depend on Mother dear? So long as "Dad" provides some income. She will find a way to carry on? THE ONE SAFE WAY FOR THE FUTURE IS TO HAVE ADEQUATE LIFE INSURANCE ' So Mother will be able to carry on in any event. Is The Best Place To Secure That Protection BENEFICIAL LIFE INSURANCE (When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine. $9 HEBER J. GRANT, President E. T. RALPHS, Gen. Mgr Time Proven Economy in KNIGHT Spring Canyon and ROYAL COALS Years of heating satisfaction under all conditions proves the heating comfort and economy of Knight Spring Canyon and Royal Coals. Knight Spring Canyon, from Utah's deepest coal seam is hard and straight-grained. It burns long with clean, intense heat. Royal Coal i is quick starting and burns freely with little ash or soot. Nature never made nor has man discovered ?_ fuels, than Knight Spring Canyon and Royal Coals. Call your dealer today. KNIGHT FUEL CO. ROYAL COAL CO. L. E. Adams, General Agent ' 818. Newhouse Building, Salt Lake Crty ? ~~ 100th DIVIDEND We Have Just Paid the Holders. Of Paid-Up Shares the 100th Regular QUARTERLY CASH DIVIDEND DESERET BUILDING SOCIETY 44 South Main St., Salt Lake City IS BETTER THAN. |, 7., 10% PERHAPS " | Assets $2,600,000.00; (7)

=== CONSOLIDATED: March_Vol18_09_Rummage_Sale_Stevenson.txt ===

The Rummage Sale
By Nora McKay Stevenson
You'll hardly believe me when I tell you about all the important things that happened on account of house cleaning this year. We were still having winter weather, but our house just had to be cleaned. Mother said so, and what mother says goes. We live in Salt Lake, a nice clean town, but Mother is one of those women who always has to be cleaning. Dad remembered that he had an important business engagement out of town. Paul, my big brother thinks that just because he is a senior at the University this year he should be excused from all home work. So as usual I could see that Jane and me were to do all the cleaning. Jane is the woman we pay four dollars a day to tell us what to do. And I'm the fellow twelve years old, that has to help with every single thing that gets done around here. Last year when I helped clean we took all the old furniture from the basement to the top floor. This time, as far as I could see, we were to carry it all down again. Every minute mother shouted at me. (I've tried to get her to call me Bill, I get sick of hearing "Willie" so much, but she don't like Bill.) "Willie! Come and take this chair to the basement." "Willie! Hurry now, take this table down." "Willie! Why do you stay down stairs so long? Take that dog picture next." I was thinking, and kept quiet. I was mad. I've hauled that heavy old picture around ever since I can remember. "Jane's got to help," I said as cross as I dared. Jane is fat, and the stairway narrow and steep. We just got about half way down when a tack came out, and the carpet slipped. Jane went down the last two or three steps with a crash, me and the picture on top. The glass busted but we didn't get cut. I didn't think Jane could be hurt much, and I wanted to make her forget it if she were, so I yelled excitedly: "Look out! Look out, Jane, he'll bite!" The big dog stood so lifelike against the wall, she screamed, and jumped, and started to cry with hysterics. Mother came running and asked, "Are you hurt Jane? Are you hurt?" "No—no," screamed Jane, but she kept right on crying. Mother couldn't help laughing a little. It was funny to see Jane so scared of just a picture. And besides, Mother was glad we weren't hurt. I was laughing too. As quick as a flash Jane's face got purple. She stamped her foot and cried through her tears, "Well, Mrs. Brown, if that's the kind of woman you are, laughing at one that's down, I'm through working for you." She banged the door hard as she went out. Mother was speechless, so she just sat on the step. I saw she was upset. You have to be patient with Mother. I knew that now Jane was gone we would be pretty slow at house cleaning.
THE RUMMAGE SALE
Sometimes when Mother is thinking real hard she talks to herself. After I had the glass all picked up I heard her say: "It seems to me that someone might be glad to get these old things. The Widow Kerr needs furniture, but I'd hate to give her this old stuff. If I could just sell the junk, we could help her with the money. She is awfully proud, and hates charity, but goodness knows how she manages with just the small amount that Nellie earns." Mother belongs to a society which looks after the poor. Dad grumbles that we'll soon be in the poor house ourselves if she continues her everlasting giving. Her forehead was all puckered up, and I knew she was studying hard, so I went out to snow-ball with the fellows. Every time I came in the house all that day Mother was telephoning. Once I heard her say: "Oh Mrs. Jones, that will be lovely. You have an old cupboard, a suit of clothes, an out-grown pair of shoes, and a string of beads. And you say Mrs. Cohn has a washboard, a pet monkey that isn't thriving, and two bottles of fruit she is afraid may spoil. My dear, we are going to have a wonderful assortment. Every lady in the Society is responding fine." Dy had a funny shocked look when he came home several days later and found Mother singing though the cleaning wasn't done. I guess he was surprised and a little disappointed, but I only heard him say: "Well, well, Emma, I never did know you to be so happy while house-cleaning. I suppose there is a lot of joy in house work if one looks for it." Mother looked down at Dad in a 149 superior sort of way from the ladder on which she was standing in front of the built-in cupboard, and said: "A lot of joy there'd be in this dirty drudgery if I didn't keep my thoughts dwelling on a loftier plane. I've been thinking about that dear Kerr family. They are behind with their rent, and Mary needs a new dress. Mrs. Kerr has learned recently that two Pennsylvania cars were seen entering Farmington just before that awful cloud-burst. She scarcely eats or sleeps she is so frantically writing letters of inquiry to newspapers all over America, hoping to locate the driver of the other car. She thinks he might know something about her boy. Poor thing can't seem to reconcile herself to the fact that the child must have been caught in a cloudburst and buried under the rock and gravel along with the father. All the women feel sorry for her, and we've decided to have a rummage sale next Saturday. We'll find some nice way of giving her the money. Dad just grunted and thoughtfully stroked his chin. S soon as Paul heard that the sale was for the Kerr family he had plenty of time to help. He got his boy friends with cars to gather up the discarded goods from dozens of homes, and helped price, and arrange the stuff in the empty store Mother rented on Regent Street. Paul is in love with Nellie. I know she loves him too, 'cause once when they were standing on the porch in the moonlight I heard her say: "T do love you Paul, but I can't ever, ever marry. I must support Mother, and my poor crippled sister. It would all be different if we hadn't lost Father and Angus. Even Angus could have supported us. He might be a great singer now. We were 150 having his voice trained. Father started to California to see if he could earn enough money to send Angus to Europe." Paul was looking at the stars, and holding Nellie's hand tight. He turned to her, and I felt proud to hear him say: "Don't you worry, dear. We'll get married all right. I'll be out of 'school 'soon. Then Tl earn plenty of money for all of us." (I bet he will, too.) Nellie just went on talking in a low tone. "We never were very well off, but we did have a home. Mother sold everything to come West. We knew so little about that awful cloudburst on the Lincoln Highway at Farmington. Mother just felt as if it couldn't have killed both Father and Angus." Saturday morning the sale goods looked smart. There were hundreds of old shoes, hats and dresses that somebody's great grandmother wore. Swell jewelry, purses, pictures, candle-sticks, candles, and everything. Then there was a dog, too old to keep awake; the sick monkey, a scared cat, and a swell white rat that I wanted Mother to buy for me. A crowd was gathering outside, and everything looked like a big success. Then Dad sent for me to come to the office to help him. That's the worst about being a fellow capable of doing every {kind of work. Someone always wants you to help 'em. When I rushed back to the sale late in the afternoon nearly everything was sold, and nobody there but Mother, Nellié, and Paul. Not knowing it was a benefit sale for her family, Nellie had come over after work. Nellie was standing smiling up RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE into Paul's face as usual. "Dear me, I must be going," she complained. "Mother is awfully sad today. I must hurry home and try to cheer her up. It's Mary's birthday and somehow Mother got started off weeping this morning. I wore this locket to work today to keep her from crying over it all day. See, it has a picture of Angus and me in it. Angus had a beautiful voice. He sang in entertainments often when he was real small. He bought this locket with money he earned, and father put our picture in it." I looked at the locket and at Nellie's sad face. "My! I bet he was a smart kid," I said. "It just seems like cloudbursts and things always knock off the nicest people.'' Paul had the necklace in his fingers, and kept saying, "How beautiful! How beautiful!" But he was gazing into Nellie's eyes, and I couldn't tell which he was talking about. I bet I'll never be that silly over a girl. Nellie smiled a little at me as if she knew what I was thinking. "I bought Mary a little pink dress for her birthday," she said, 'Don't let me forget it when I leave." I was just going to ask her to show us the dress when the door opened and two dirty tramps and an awfully large woman came in. Her little round hat on top of a huge pile of gray hair, trembled as the woman importantly walked up to Mother. "Oh dear, your sale is nearly over ain't it? Hainy't 'cha got nothin' left I kin buy? I do love a rummage sale." "We still have a few very nice things,' Mother managed to say with her best company smile. "How would you like one of those nice pictures?" THE RUMMAGE SALE "My, ain't that big dog picture purty? The frame could be touched up where it's broken, don't 'cha think?" "Wihy yes, you could fill in the broken places with plaster of paris, and paint the whole thing. You ¢ may have that for seventy-five cents,' Mother explained. The woman looked thoughtful. "Hm'm, it'd make a -fine weddin' present, all right. Tl take it. I loved her for saying those three words. I knew I'd seen the last of the old dog. While I'd been paying attention to the woman with my ears, my eyes had been following the two dirty men. They went around quietly trying on coats, and mumbling to each other out of the corners of their hairy tobacco stained mouths. The monkey was making a terrible fuss just like he didn't want the men touching things. "What's the boy doing with them little pictures?" I heard the woman ask, Mother had told me to gather them up for the junk man. Now, she hastily said, "Oh, just getting them together. We must soon close. You may have those at five for a quarter." "Wrap 'em all right up," smiled the woman. "I kin fix 'em and paint 'em up beautiful." Her face was growing red with excitement. She stood with feet apart, and large hands on her hips, casting hungry eyes around the room. "Why, what's this—a lovely gray suit?" It was just sticking out of the top of a box of ten-cent-a-pound woolen rags. "Yes, it's a lady's suit, a little moth eaten, but you may have it for a dollar,' Mother said in her most business-like voice., 151 "The moth holes is awful thick all over. Hm'm, but what a lovely color. I could embroider red silk dots over the holes. A lady's whole spring suit for a dollar! Well, wrap 'er up. My, howl do love a sale-" Mother was just trembling. I guess she was thrilled over the big business she was doing. She might have sold all we had left, only just then an auto horn began sounding loud quick blasts. "Luddy, there's that man waitin' fur me. Won't he be mad?" As she put her money on the table she noticed the monkey sitting on her bundles. "Took at the darlin' monkey," she said, "Wish I could buy him too." We hurried to load her up. I grabbed all the bundles in sight, and filled her arms. She went through the door side-ways muttering: "Luddy, won't he be mad, but he knows I just love a rummage sale." BEFORE I got the door shut a little thin man and a tall skinny boy came in. The boy was coughing something awful, and looked so sick I forgot to watch the two dirty guys that seemed to want to wait upon themselves. "T'd like to buy a pair of shoes that will fit Joe," the old man said. "Wie have a good many shoes left. Just look through the pile," Mother said. She was so happy over the big addition she had just made that she was counting the money all over again. "Try these on, Joe. The soles look pretty good. You know Maam, Joe and me have to walk to Ogden tonight." At that Mother dropped the money back into the bag on her arm. "Dear me, what a long way to walk in the snow. Just look, it's 152 beginning to storm now. You surely need good shoes." "We are compelled to go," said the little man in a mournful voice. "We can't get work here, and we have no place to stay." Nellie put the monkey off her shoulder, and she and Paul went close to the old man, looking sober © with sympathy. I was feeling so sad I hardly noticed the tramps leave. Joe was coughing just terrible.; "Have you no home at all?' Mother asked with concern. "No ma-am. We sold our home for money to take Mother to Arizona. She died on us anyway." He paused, as if examining a pair of shoes, and then went on like he was talking to himself. ''Ever since we lost Mother we haven't had a home. Sallie stays with Jim, our married boy. She works and goes to school, but there's no room for Joe and me." Even the monkey sat still as the old man talked. And tears were in Mother's eyes. I knew she was thinking how terrible *twould be not to have a home or some place where you were wanted. Poor old man seemed nice too, good grammar and everything. While Paul and Nellie found overcoats Mother looked for shoes. Two men walked in. The one in working clothes said, "Show me them candlesticks, boy." He pointed to some in the window. I hated to miss anything the old man said but someone had to wait on them. "They are just what we need to make that setting perfect." Whatever that meant. He seemed surprised when I said, "a quarter, please." The monkey which had come from Nellie over to me was jumping all over me and on the paper when I was trying to wrap the candlesticks, RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE and the young man laughed with such a beautiful voice. APES they were gone Mother brought four pair of shoes to the wrapping table. And Nellie and Paul showed the old man the coats they had found for him. All of a sudden Nellie noticed that her locket was not on her neck. '""Where's my necklace? Oh, where is my locket?" she cried, the tears just bursting from her eyes. We all rushed around looking everywhere, but we couldn't see it. "Oh dear! What shall I do," she moaned, "It is the only picture we have of my brother." We were all sad and worried. We ran around turning shoes up side down, and feeling in coat pockets. Then Nellie screamed: '"'Where's Mary's dress? I left it right here on the end of this table. Oh dear! Oh dear! I'm the most unlucky girl alive." Paul went to her and put his arm around her. "There, there, dear, you have so many tears in your eyes you couldn't see Mary's dress if it were laying right before you. Try not to cry, dear. We'll find the locket if we have to bring back every person who has been here buying." After we had looked everywhere, Paul got in our car and drove away. "T will not go Ma-am untilyou have found the lost articles,' the old man said, as he sat stroking the overcoat on his knee. Mother was holding Nellie in her arms, and wishing she had never thought of having a rummage sale, when Dad came in. "What's wrong? Whhat's wrong here?" he demanded at once. I knew Mother'd hate to tell him so I said, "Nothing much, Dad. We've just mislaid something of Nellie's," THE RUMMAGE SALE "Mislaid," he said loudly. "I guess you mean you've had something stolen. I've always thought your mother's craze for charity work would get us into trouble." As no one spoke he continued, "Well Willie, what is it? I want to know." "Nellie's locket with her dead brother's picture in it and the new dress she bought for her sister's birthday is gone," I said slowly, as I watched the rat to see if it was going to crawl into a hole in the floor. Then the door opened and the big woman came in. The rat would have escaped then if Joe hadn't caught him. Mother looked enquiringly at the woman, who answered crossly: "T came to your sale to buy valued antiques, not goods that can be bought at any store. Here is your pink dress. I have no use fur it. Don't see why you give it to me, anyway." Before she banged the door we heard her complaining, "Luddy, Pa was mad, havin' to make an extra trip back here, and everything." A glad smile spread over Mother's face. "Don't you see, John," she said to Dad, "The people who were here are honest. I'm sure no thieves came to our sale." I laid the dress in Nellie's lap and patted her shoulder. "Don't worry, kid, we'll get the locket back, too." But she kept on crying. Paul came in all breathless. "TI couldn't find a trace of the tramps," he said. "I parked in the next block. I thought maybe if they didn't see the car they might think we had gone, and would come back to see if they could steal something else." | "Willie, you go find a policeman. This is a case for the law. If the 153 locket is pawned they'll have to look for it later anyway." I ran along Regent Street to Second South. A cop was putting red marks on auto tires, but he quit and came with me right away when I told him we had been robbed. He asked Nellie to describe the locket and chain. He questioned us about all the customers we shad been selling to since Nellie's arrival. He looked about on the floor and tables, and then said he would search each person now in the room. He began with the old man. It scared me. I prayed that he would not find the locket on the old man or Joe. They both looked so pitiful. Dad wore a puzzled expression and looked at the old man closely. "Say, what's your name?' he asked. "John Morgan, sir." "Didn't you used to be with the Utah Light and Power Company?" "Yes sir." "Well, you knew that the matter of the missing stock certificate was all cleared up after you left?" "Oh, no sir. They never told me." He looked awfully pleased in spite of having to hold out his arms while the policeman searched his pockets. "You had moved away, and I guess the message never reached you." "I was in Arizona trying to get mother well." "You better come round to the office in the morning. They'll be glad to get you back." The old man straightened up till he looked inches taller, and so happy. The officer didn't find a thing in his clothes. "This man and his son are concealing nothing on their bodies," he said as he turned to search me. Mother stepped near the old man 154 and gave him five dollars out of the purse on her arm. "You will need this to pay for a place to stay tonight," she smiled. He hesitated ever so little, before saying, "O thanks for the loan Ma-am. I'll pay you back out of my first check." THE policeman was turning my pockets inside-out and slapping me all over to see if he could feel anything underneath, when here came the swell-dressed young man that had been with the guy that bought the candlesticks. He was all out of breath, "Did this locket come from here?" he exploded the minute he was inside. Nellie jumped toward him, "Oh my locket! My locket!' she exclaimed, weeping harder than ever. The young man caught hold of her arm. We were all just awfully surprised. "Where did you get that locket? Who are you?" he questioned excitedly, as Nellie tried to pull away from him. "You're not Nellie Kerr! You can't be my little sister!' he went on without waiting for her to speak. She was staring at him. Then her arms were around his neck. "Angus! Darling Angus." Her face was buried in his shoulder, and his strong arms were around her. "Where is Mother—Mother and the baby?" he asked fearfully. Nellie raised her head and tried to smile. "They're at home, but Mary isn't a baby any longer. She's fifteen today." He held Nellie close, and two tears trickled down his cheeks. "Poor Mother, how she must have RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE suffered. I've searched the States over for you. I was riding with Mr. And Mrs. Brainard in the car just behind Father when the cloudburst struck. We never knew exactly what became of Father. We looked for him on the road for several days. At last when we did not catch up with him the Brainards tried to get in touch with Mother, but you had moved and left no address." "We camped in Farmington a long time. When we finally settled here we sent our address backhome." "T guess I was traveling after that. How we all have suffered." "But Angus dear, where did you find the locket?" "Tam in town with the Brainard Opera Company. I walked out with the theater property man. He came in here to buy some old candlesticks. When we unwrapped them the locket fell out. "T bet the monkey dropped it in as I wrapped," I chuckled. I gathered him in my arms. 'Look what you've done, you good old monk," I whispered in his ear. Paul took Angus and Nellie right home in our car. Father signaled a taxi, "I guess we can go home now. I want my dinner," he said gruffly. I knew he just talked that way to hide his real feelings. There was a lump in my throat. I was just suffering to cry. But I bet I'll never be so happy again as long as I live. The monkey was on my shoulder and the rat in my lap, as we taxied home, and I knew we had a lot of things left for the next rummage sale.


=== CONSOLIDATED: March_Vol18_13_Poorhouse_Pension_Paul.txt ===

Poorhouse or Pension?
By J. H. Paul, Director Old-Age Pensions, Salt Lake County
I. Why Old-Age Pensions?
The changed modes of life, due to the industrial revolution of the past 25 years in America, have made old-age pensions a present necessity not keenly felt in former periods. As long as our country was predominantly agricultural, as long as virgin soil could be taken up at slight cost, factory work was usually but a temporary occupation to enable the worker to save enough to start on his farm or small business. Few workers remained in the shops till old age had overtaken them. The problem of aged workers was almost non-existent. A book of forty years ago, Three Acres and Liberty, showed how almost any man could go upon a small, cheap farm, and earn a fair livelihood. Today that is impossible upon three, thirty, or even 300 acres, unless the man has a large capital. From an overwhelmingly agricultural nation, the United States, in the course of a generation, has become one of the most highly developed of industrial countries. The number of those directly engaged in manufacturing and mechanical pursuits grew from 5,678,468 in 1890 to 12,818,524 in 1920, a gain of over 125 percent in one generation. In iron and steel, the percentage has risen much higher; in railroads the increase amounts to over 233 percent. The number engaged in mining increased from 387,248 in 1890 to 1,090,233 in 1920, or 181 percent. On the other hand, the percentage of those engaged in agricultural pursuits declined from 44.4 percent of the total gainfully employed in 1880 to 26.3 percent in 1920, and is still lower now, the census figures for 1930 being not yet available.
II. Present Plight of the Aged
Today the old man finds it difficult or impossible to get work at any wages. Modern, mass production demands the swift speed that only young men can give. The aged worker is laid off, and, since the decline of farming, has nowhere to go. Many industries now limit their hiring age to 40 and 35 years. Unlike the gradual physical decline in old age characteristic of agricultural countries, economic superannuation takes place in industry abruptly and earlier in life. The factory, wearing out its workers with great rapidity, scraps alike machinery and human beings. The young, the vigorous, the adaptable, the supple of
166
limb, the alert of mind, are alone in demand. In business and in professions, maturity of judgment and ripened experience offset, to some extent, the disadvantage of old age; but in the factory and on the railway, with spade and pick, at the spindle, and at the steel converters, there are no offsets. Middle age is old age. The wage-earner is compelled to discontinue work long before actual senility sets in; not because he is worn out, but because he is unable to maintain the pace necessary in modern production.
III. How Aged People Used to Live
The number of aged people who can get work or live by operating a small farm is much less than it was 25 and even ten years ago. Older men cannot get work as they used to do, and the small farm or home no longer yields enough to support aged people, being oftener a liability than an asset. The orchard and garden, the little shop, the pig, chickens, cow—common to former small homes—have all gone; so that aged couples, who formerly could make a fair living from a small piece of land with a little house on it, can do nothing with such capital now. The percentage of the population over 65 who are still at work was (census 1920): in all occupations 4.1 per cent; bakers, 2.1; bankers, brokers, etc., 5.4; bookkeepers, etc., 1.2; clothing industry, 1.2; coal mining, 1.6; firemen, 2.4; glass blowers, 2.0; clerks, 1.3; farmers, 8.8; laborers (building), 6.4; laborers (iron and steel), 2.4; laborers (steam and R. R.), 2.8; laborers (public service), 8.1; other laborers, 2.5; machinists, 1.7; managers, 2.1; manufacturers and officials, 5.7; mechanics, 1.4; molders, etc., 1.5; plumbers, etc., 1.2; iron and steel, 1.5; printing, 1.3. Note the high percentage of aged people in farming and public service.
IV. Few Workmen Can Save For Old Age
American wages, in this era of high costs of living, are barely sufficient for daily needs, and have not permitted, even in our most prosperous years, sufficient savings for old age. With the exception of a few isolated and exceptionally skilled
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
trades, the wages of American workers are insufficient, without supplement from other sources, to provide for the subsistence of a family consisting of husband, wife, and three minor children, much less to maintain them in that condition of "health and reasonable comfort" which every humane consideration demands.—National War Labor Board, 1922. The actual weekly wages earned by those employed in 1920, a year of great prosperity, by the average in all industries, was $26.30; factory employees, $28.15; farm laborers, with board, $10.82, without board, $14.98; iron and steel, $45.65.—U. S. Com. of Labor. The amount of a weekly budget for a standard of health and decency, was: Detroit, $32.00; Philadelphia, $35.00; Calif. Laborer's family of five, $39.41; clerk's family of five, $57.53; families in Calif. Cities, $39; farm families, N. Y., $38.50. After the World War, our prosperity continued for three years. Since then one great depression (1921-22) and two minor ones have occurred, followed in 1930 by the greatest depression of our history. Deceived by accounts of 22 million automobiles owned by Americans, millions of radios and increasing bank deposits, we overlooked the deserted farms, the homes that were being exchanged for autos and radios, and the fact that notable increases in bank deposits occurred only in great industrial states.
V. Shall it Be Poor House or Pensions?
The poor house, or infirmary, is not the place for dependent aged people; it costs more and is less effective and uplifting than pensions or insurance. The Salt Lake County cost of old-age pensions averages $132 per year. The cost in the Infirmary is $319 per year. The cost of almshouse maintenance in Wisconsin is $186 yearly per inmate; out-door relief, only $50 per year; in Ohio, about $170 per capita in city and county infirmaries, but some as high as $300, others as low as $100. The cities and counties have an investment of $10,000,000 in infirmaries alone. In 1925 the U. S. Dept. of Labor published a
POOR HOUSE OR PENSION?
comprehensive monograph, The Cost of American Almshouses. Of Europe's economic revolution, have been dubbed "dole" systems and "burdensome costs" is the argument against European methods, yet the per capita wealth of the United States ($3,000) is the highest of any nation, the American tax-payer the least burdened. And its accessories, are estimated by Epstein (Challenge of the Aged, 1928) to cost "$6.50 a year for every man, woman, and child in the country"—a total of several billions a year, while Britain's old-age pension and insurance bill is only $100,000,000 a year.
VI. The Chances for Old Age Today
Owing to recent advances in medical science, little more than an even chance to reach old age. The proportion of aged people employed in agriculture is much lower than formerly. Locomotive engineers, Service 6.3 per cent, retains only 3.5 per cent, Mining, 2.1 per cent. It is said that locomotive firemen have little more than an even chance of reaching 65; indeed, various industries retain far fewer men than formerly.
VII. Chief Causes of Pauperism
Age alone is the minor cause of pauperism; illness and reverses of fortune, and not shiftlessness, are the principal causes. On our Utah pension lists are men of the finest abilities—engineers, former members of the legislature, and the like. None of those receiving pensions can be classed as lazy or idle. Of the almshouses as 32.1 percent. Were more important than any other cause in bringing about premature superannuation. Sickness frequently required the expenditure of all savings. Disease, sickness, or accident was given as the chief cause of dependency among 321 persons studied by the Massachusetts Commission on Pensions, 1925. Massachusetts, shows that among persons 65 and over, old age caused total impairment in only 68 percent.—Massachusetts Commission on Pensions, 1925. Most of the workers interviewed began to fail after 50. Pattern makers complained of defective eyesight, the molders of weakened arms. As a rule they paid little attention to these disorders until a breakdown compelled them to give up work.
167

