[Vol57 | June 1970 | Page 418 | General Feature | Woman's Sphere Ramona | W. Cannon]
[Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon]

Notes on a few follow: Dr. Wen-yah Koo, who teaches pharmacology at Taiwan University Medical College, has analyzed thousands of Chinese herbs. She--carefully collects, cures, and stores them, and even raises some. For eighteen months she worked in a hospital laboratory on Long Island, New York, assisting with cancer research using some Chinese herbs. One deterred the growth of cancer in rats, but required continued research. Her book, A Study of Chinese Drugs, won a $1,000 prize in China and awaits publication in English. 418 Dr. Ruth Wright, who was the first dean of students at an American coeducational college (City College of New York), has been director of studies at the Language Center, a subsidiary of Taiwan University, where college graduates learn English to meet the needs of local business. She selected and trained the teachers. Mrs. Lillian Dickson, world-famous founder of Mustard Seed, Incorporated, has worked out of Taiwan since 1927. ''Mustard Seed projects dot Taiwan with hospitals, maternity wards, clinics, leprosariums, TB sanitariums, trade schools for boys and for girls, kindergartens, homes for orphans, babies, and boys and girls released from prisons, blind girls, handicraft centers, training for kindergarten teachers and nurses' aids."' Mrs. Nora Chu, a women's normal college president, took time to lunch, in rotation, with every student and her counselor. A majority of the homemakers in Denmark are working commercially in their homes. The high development of arts and crafts accounts for a considerable amount of this domestic industry. Dr. Clara M. Ambrus, principal research scientist at Roswell Park Memorial Institute, Buffalo, New York, has reported to the American Cancer Society a new treatment—the outgrowth of research on leukemia—which appears to be effective against hialine membrane disease. President John F. Kennedy's son Patrick was a victim of this ailment. Research is trying to improve this treatment and make it generally available, cost-wise.