[Vol57 | June 1970 | Page 437 | Special Feature | "The Relief Society Magazine Fulfills Its Purposes" Irene | W. Buehner]
j - \\ ee = ae \ee "THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE IS READ AROUND THE WORLD" University West Stake Annie M. Ballantyne, Stake Relief Society President Margaret D. Scott, Stake Magazine Representative This display dramatically depicted the world-wide distribution and influence of The Relief Society Magazine. The University West Stake created a beautiful paper maché replica of a world globe. The round table was draped with an exquisite gold satin cloth. Miniature flags of various countries marked areas where the Magazine is being sent. Blue ribbons connected the map areas with the open Relief Society Magazines artistically arranged around the table. The Magazines featured an article or indicated a contributor from that particular part of the world. "CONVEYS INTERESTS, OPINIONS, AND STANDARDS OF RELIEF SOCIETY" Mesa Stake Ada J. Jones, former Stake Relief Society President (now a member of the General Board of Relief Society) Ethelyn J. Madsen, Stake Magazine Representative A background of folding screens divided the table into sections, each section denoting a period of time. Appropriate articles taken from The Relief Society Magazines from the various periods were displayed on the screens, and little dolls dressed in the costume of each particular time in history reflected the interests and standards of the sisters at that time.

In the first section of the screen the 1915 copy of The Relief (continued on page 451) ee I Opinions Stondards.., Lilies of the Garden and Field Leila Grace Bassford LILIES—what vistas of enchantment the word evokes. We conjure up in our mind's eye tall flowering spikes of trumpet-like blooms, or tiny groundhugging species that literally carpet their own particular spot of earth. But whatever the variety, it is always rewarding to have lilies in the garden. Known as the aristocrats of the garden, they lend distinction and beauty wherever they are placed, and their culture is surprisingly easy. For most varieties, given a minimum of tender loving care, a well-drained, partially shaded location, a bit of fertilizer, plus plenty of humus (half decomposed leaves are good for this purpose), and they will thrive and reward you with an abundance of extravagantly rich and fragrant bloom. VARIETIES Most of the better known garden lihes are hardy and multiply rapidly, and in a few seasons the lily culturist will 442 have extra bulbs and clumps of wellrooted plants to share with her fellow gardeners, which is half the fun of gardening. Two of the most popular tall garden species are the pure white Madonna Lily (Candidum) and the Regal Lily (Regale), white with lilac and brown shadings on the outside, and yellow shadings on the inside base. Both of these species adapt themselves well to garden conditions, and propagate readily. Day Lily (Hemerocallis) has long, sword-shaped leaves, and the multiple flowers, each lasting but a day, are borne on a tall leafless stalk. The older varieties shade from pale lemon to deep orange. The newer hybrids come in mahogany, rose, bronze, and red shades. These are a favorite with many gardeners, as they are exceptionally hardy, thrive almost anywhere, reproduce enthusiastically, and are a colorful and decorative addition to the midsummer garden. Even the dainty Lily of the Valley (Convallaria Mayalis), with its graceful spike of white bell-like blossoms, whose appearance of fragility belies its hardiness, has all the charm, in miniature, of its taller, more imposing sisters. WATER LILIES The Water Lily(Nymphaea)is probably the most versatile of all garden lilies.

elative to his experience he said: "I waited for a day and a half out there, looking for the temple through an empty picture frame without ever touching my large white canvas. Silly, sitting among sego lilies, waiting for angels to come and pose. Faithless and impatient, I gave up and tried to paint what I saw and failed—light descending from heaven, cleaving the mountains, hallowing, redeeming grass, baptizing unto newness of leaf, working atonement, eter- = marriage, achieving godhood, with all the angels hymning in the wild wheat." Though the artist in his own eyes may have felt that he failed, to the viewer, his painting says that the very physical light is divine. From the sky God blessed all living entities with his sunshine. Each blade of grass, one by one, declares faith in the validity of individual things and conjointly displays wealth of value in the common field. To "see" not just with the eyes but with the whole mind awake is truly a great gift. 450 THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FULFILLS ITS PURPOSES (continued from page 439) Society Magazine was shown and the little doll Standing on the table was dressed in the accepted style of a pre-World War I woman. In the last section a copy of the our Lamanite sisters. A flip chart pictured the people whose voices were being heard. This was a simple but very cleverly executed display. % BEAUTY IN JEWELED FRUIT (continued from Page 446) dusting with a clean brush, the fruit will last for years, retaining its perfection through repeated handlings. Durability of the fruit, pushing pins into this material soon makes the fingers sore. This problem can be eliminated by pushing the pins with a pair of small sharp nose 'HONEYMOON CAFE" BRIDAL SHOWER (continued from page 441) The following menu was served at the pictured bridal shower. Chicken over Honeymoon Rice Buttered Green Beans With Almonds Orange Blossom Molded Salad Relish Platter Crispy Rolls Strawberry Dream Cake Foil-wrapped Chocolate Kisses CHICKEN OVER HONEYMOON RICE 3 cans condensed cream of 3c. Diced cooked chicken chicken soup 6 tbsp. Chopped pimento 1% c. Milk pepper to taste 6 tsp. Soy sauce 9 c. Fluffy rice % c. Buttered crumbs Combine the soup, milk, and soy sauce in a large pot. Mix well, blending thoroughly. Place over heat, Stirring occasionally. Then add the chicken, pimento, and pepper, 451 June 1979 4 pkgs. Quick-frozen French % c. Almonds Style green beans 6 tbsp. Butter Cook beans according to directions on Package. Blanch and slice the almonds and Sauté in melteq butter. Add to the cooked beans and Season with salt. Serves 12 to 15. ORANGE BLOSSom MOLDED SaLap 2 3-0z pkgs. Orange-flavored 22 ©. Cold liquid gelatin % c. Halved maraschino cherries 1 3-0z pkg. Lemon-flavored 1 c. Drained Canned peach Slices gelatin le. Orange slices 3c, boiling water 3 sliced bananas 2 tbsp. Lemon juice CREAMY FRUIT DRESSING % c. French dressing Ye c. Sour cream Yc, mayonnaise 2 tsp. Maraschino cherry juice Mix all ingredients until smooth. Store in bow! Or jar and chill thoroughly. Makes Yc. Dressing. RELISH PLATTER Cherry tomatoes Stuffed with Celery chunks stuffed with cheese Crab salad Spread Sliced cucumbers Spiced watermelon rind Ripe olives Arrange relishes in contrasting rows on large platter. Garnish with Parsley. STRAWBERRY DREAM CAKE 1 2-layer white cake mix 3 drops red food coloring 1 gt. Strawberry ice cream lec. Whipping cream 1 pkg. Frozen Strawberry Slices 2 tbsp. Sugar with juice Martha Spratley Chadwick, Aes Stake, American Fork, Utah, is amt at all types of handwork, and is generous in sharing her lovely articles with her many friends and relatives, and Relief Society bazaars boast many pairs of embroidered pillowcases. Sister Chadwick lives alone and cares for her home and yard. Her neighbors often receive a loaf of bread she has made. For over sixty years she has served as a visiting teacher. Her cheerful, optimistic, and industrious nature has endured for ninety-three years and endears her to her ten children, twenty-five grandchildren, and forty-two great-grandchildren. Her philosophy has been it's not how long we live, but how, and her life has been long in years and in service to others. Viva Irene Geisler Jensen, Farr West Stake, Ogden, Utah is best characterized as a homemaker. Her home has always been beautifully cared for, and her cooking is excellent. She makes her own drapes, helps with painting and wall-papering. Through the years she has made clothing for her family, and supplied Relief Society bazaars with beautifully constructed items. Her quilts are her most outstanding craft. She has made hundreds of quilts of all sizes. Each of her five children and nineteen grandchildren has his own personalized quilt made especially for him. She has won many fair ribbons. In addition to her handicraft talents, she plays the drums or piano for her husband's dance band. Sister Jensen has served in many executive positions in the auxiliaries of the Church. In Relief Society she has serv