Notes to the Field

AN INSPIRATIONAL CALL

AT our April Conference, 1930, President Louise Y. Robison asked all Relief Society women of the Church to donate one article, either new or remodeled, for the benefit of the needy. The article could range in value from 10c to any amount one desired to give.

Had all the wards and stakes responded to this call there would have been a big supply of needed things to meet the present distress.

We reprint part of President Robison's instructions given in the April, 1931, conference, and hope that all our stakes will make this much needed collection.

"Last spring we asked that all of the Relief Society women of the Church donate one article, either a new article or made-over or remodeled article, for the benefit of those in need. It seems in some stakes this has hardly been understood, and they have not known what to do with the articles when they were collected. You can have the articles range in price from ten cents to any amount, even to a pair of blankets, if anyone would care to give that much.

"Look about you and see if all the children are taken care of, that no little child is going to school humiliated because of its clothing. It is a cruel thing for a child to have to go to school or Sunday School and be ashamed because its clothing is worn. Take care of your ward out of this contribution, then if you have your ward supplied, (and we do have wards where these is very little or no need, but we still expect and hope that these sisters in such wards will contribute), and you still have a surplus, have the ward president speak to the stake president about this. In almost every stake there will be one ward where there is greater need than in other wards.

"Other women's organizations do this type of work. Last year the Needlework Guild of America supplied 1,300,000 articles. To be a member of the Needlework Guild one must donate two articles a year, or an equivalent amount of money. These are given to the Red Cross or to any group that are in need. We are not trying to take care of the world, but sisters of the Relief Society, do you not think this Relief Society is strong enough to take care of every Latter-day Saint child there is in this Church? Don't you think it is our calling, as mothers of the Church, to see that there is not a child in this whole Church suffering?"

*Definite instructions regarding this clothing contribution will be found in the Relief Society Handbook, page 176.