Notes from the Field

SARAH BEATTIE BARNES, BLANCHE DAVIS REES, SARAH T. SOUTH
AMELIA WARDROP, MARY J. G. BURTON

Grant Stake (Burton Ward).
BURTON WARD, Grant Stake, is located immediately south of the McKinley Ward, having been made from a portion of the old Farmers' Ward, in 1914, Henry G. Burton, bishop. On May 5, 1931, the Relief Society of Burton Ward reached its seventeenth birthday.

The first meeting was held at the home of the late Alfred I. Burton, and Amelia Wardrop was sustained as president with Ella Free Kimball and Mary J. Gardner Burton as counselors. Sister Wardrop was counselor in the old Farmers' Ward at the time of the reorganization. Prior to this she had been the president of the 12-13th Ward. She entered into the work as an experienced faithful leader, personally in touch with every phase of the work. The chapel was built during her presidency. When conditions made it necessary to divide the Burton Ward she found herself in the new Wells Ward, where she was made Relief Society president. This was the third time she had been chosen as the first president of a ward Relief Society. That in itself is a high tribute to her worth. It is interesting, too, that she lived in three wards at different times while occupying the same house. Born on June 27, 1855, she was 76 years of age, and she sailed for Europe in August, 1931, as a guest of the United States Government. Her son, Star Clifton Wardrop, was drowned in the service of the Navy.

Mary J. G. Burton was voted in as first counselor to Sister Wardrop October 22, 1916, upon the death of Sister Kimball, acting as such until September 14, 1918, when she was sustained as the president. Her cheerful spirit spread sunshine wherever she found it necessary to labor, and the good feeling of love and spirituality was commended by those who attended the gatherings of this organization. Sister Burton moved from the ward at the close of 1922, and Sarah T. South was chosen by Bishop Miller to fill the vacancy, being sustained president January 16, 1923. At this time the population of Burton Ward represented seventeen different nationalities, who worked together harmoniously supporting the bishopric, of which an outstanding achievement was the erecting of the amusement hall.

Sarah Beattie Barnes was made president following the appointment of Sister South as Relief Society stake secretary. She was called to this position and sustained September 26, 1926. The work progressed under her kind and gentle supervision, and she made many lasting friends.

In 1928, Sister Barnes moved from the ward, and Blanch Davis Rees was chosen as her successor, being sustained October 14, 1928. Sister Reese has filled a mission and held other positions of trust, and she is meeting the new phase of the great Relief Society work successfully. In the last call for Magazine subscriptions, Burton Ward won the stake prize. The membership and attendance is also steadily increasing. The star quilt is a favorite with this ward—the sisters have made a great many which are to be found in different localities of the country.

The five presidents shown in the picture are still living, three of them continue to reside in Burton Ward—Sister Reese, president; Sister Barnes, who has returned and is now a counselor to Sister Reese; and Sister South, a stake member.

North Sevier Stake.
THE value of having a yearly plan for Work and Business Meeting has been demonstrated by many of our stakes, who make of this one of the most important days of Relief Society activity. The following fine constructive plan from the North Sevier stake indicates great care in the preparation of a yearly program:

October 13: School lunches; school clothing; aprons for children and women; patterns for remodeling; crochet cushions and hooked rugs; planting of Fall bulbs and caring for them over Winter. November 10: Thanksgiving menus, recipes and demonstrations; games—how to amuse most profitably, and what are the best play things for constructive growth; games in the home; stories in the home. December 8: Christmas suggestions; recipes for candies; demonstration of candies; painting vases; pillows, hot-pad holders; parties—games, menus, favors, decorations. January 12: Infant feeding and clothing—layette complete with patterns; fagoting, smocking, hairpin lace, Spanish work; exchange of quilt blocks and patterns. February 9: Program for Washington Bicentennial. March 8: Planting trees, shrubs, rock gardens, etc.; Spring clothes, sun-suits, bonnets, underwear. April 12: Planting vegetable and flower gardens; exchange of bulbs and seeds; suggestions for house cleaning—formulas for paint and wall cleaner, floor wax and varnishes. May 10: Give short talk on storing of Winter clothing; short talk on redecorating homes, painting, color schemes, etc.; suggestions on making curtains and blinds. June 14: Demonstration in canning early fruit, samples to be contributed to Society; demonstration of Summer salads, drinks and foods.

Teton Stake:
A VERY successful flower carnival was held at the Teton stake house in Driggs, Idaho, on August 30, 1931. There were six wards participating in the contest, every one of which received prizes and honorable mention for the display. There was very fine work accomplished through the efforts of the Relief Society in cooperation with some of the civic organizations, and it was a demonstration of the fact that beautiful flowers can be produced if the effort is made. It is the hope of this stake to make the flower carnival a yearly event, constantly growing larger and better.

A free clinic for children was held in the stake for a period of two days, July 15 and 16. At this time more than 300 children were examined and some follow-up work was done.

Hyrum Stake:
THE annual stake social of the Hyrum stake Relief Society was held in honor of the officers and visiting teachers August 26, 1931, at 2:30 p. m. The scene of this pleasant event was the Hyrum First Ward Chapel. The social this year was also to commemorate the founding of the Hyrum stake Relief Society thirty years ago. The Relief Society stake president, Mrs. Laura L. Christensen, was in charge, and a very delightful program, historical and entertaining, was presented. It was in reality a historical review of the past thirty years. This was followed by a symbolic representation of Relief Society accomplishments by thirty former and present board members, who each in turn lighted a candle which decorated the large birthday cake. After the program, punch, cake and melons were served to 400 people. A highly interesting feature was the presence of three executive officers of the first organization. An extensive history of the activities, and the various officers of the Society from 1901 to the present date had been compiled, together with reviews of the various activities engaged in, and prose and poetical contributions from members of the various ward societies which will form a permanent record of references for future time.

St. George Stake.
RELIEF SOCIETY Teachers' Conventions were held in Enterprise on October 13, 1931, and in St. George on October 18, 1931, for the wards in the vicinities. Inspirational talks were given by stake board members on the value of the visiting teachers' work, after which demonstrations on "Ineffective" and "Effective" teaching, were presented by members from various wards. In the Effective demonstration, the topic "Our Responsibility to Ourselves" was made very impressive to the hostess, and she was made to feel the benefit to be obtained spiritually, intellectually, physically, and mentally by attending Relief Society.