Lesson Department

Theology and Testimony

(First Week in April)

Select Readings: Study Alma, chapters 12 to 15, inclusive. How many distinct ideas on religion are given here? What are they?

BOOK OF MORMON: IN WHAT DOES GOODNESS CONSIST?

Nephite leaders of thought had an idea that religion ought to begin at this end instead of the other end of it life. To this idea we have already called attention.

Also we have remarked upon the bearing of this conception on the divine origin of the Book of Mormon. If Joseph Smith were the uninspired author of that record, he would most probably have been more concerned in the remote than in the near-by in theology, as his contemporaries were.

In nothing is this tendency to consider the near-end of religion in the Book of Mormon more pronounced than in the subject of the present lesson. The highly moral tone of the Gold Bible was what struck early converts to "Mormonism." It impressed the practical-minded George Q. Cannon, whose words we have quoted elsewhere. And it greatly impressed Willard Richards. After he had read the Book of Mormon twice in ten days and before he had joined the church, he said, "Either God or the devil has had a hand in that book, for man never wrote it."

The Nephites had a high conception of the value of the human personality. That we have also considered. It would follow, from this conception, that they would condemn severally all forms of murder and that they would safeguard human life in every way. And this they did.

"Wo unto the murderer who deliberately killeth," says the prophet Jacob, brother of Nephi the First, "for he shall die." That was in the fifth century B. C., when the Lehites had been on the American continent but a few years. They brought this law with them from Palestine—an echo of the Ten Commandments. But observe its form. The murderer "who deliberately killeth." This phrase takes into consideration the condition under which any murder is committed. Is this phrase an outgrowth of Nephi's experience with Laban at the time he got the Brass Plates?

This strong condemnation of murder is in harmony with what is said elsewhere in the Record on the point. The same authority—Jacob—places murder as one of the "secret works of darkness" in the land, which must be destroyed. (II Nephi, 10:15.) In one of his letters to his son Moroni (Moroni, 9:10), Mormon attributes murder, which he strongly condemns, to "hardness of heart."

The Nephites believed in capital punishment. Alma the younger tells us (Alma, 30:10) that if a man murdered, "he was punished unto death." Presumably the judge took into consideration the conditions under which the crime was committed as well as the motive that led to it. In the ninth chapter of Helaman we have an account of five persons placed under arrest for the murder of the chief judge. In this case, as it happens, the accused were innocent, but the point is that they were apprehended by the law.

The converted Nephite had a perfect horror of the taking of human life, and he would do so only where it was in self-defense. There are many cases in point.

Moroni, the military chief, always refrained from unnecessary killing in war. In the battle with Zerahemnah (Alma, chapter 43) he takes the very first opportunity, although he is victorious, to stop the "flow of blood." Later, during the Great War between the Nephites and the Lamanites, he does not "deal death to the enemy" when it is possible to win without doing so. This was partly because the Nephites considered the Lamanites less culpable than themselves in their wrong-doing on account of their lack of civilization and religion. When, however, the Nephites did the same things as the Lamanites, such leaders as Moroni were less considerate. And then, of course, the Nephite war leaders were always anxious to save their own soldiers.

Sexual sins were severely dealt with in Book of Mormon times. That there were lapses from virtue among the Nephites goes without saying, for they were human. But these were punished. There was no winking at them at any time during the reign of religion on the continent. The ideal here also was derived from the teachings of Moses, which were contained on the Brass Plates.

Jacob, in the same place where he speaks of murder, inveighs as strongly against unchastity. "Wo unto them who commit whoredoms," he says (II Nephi, 9:36), "for they shall be thrust down to hell." And Abinadi tells the profligate priests of Noah, "Thou shalt not commit adultery." Alma informs his son Corianton, who has been guilty of harlotry, that "these things are an abomination in the sight of the Lord; yea, most abominable above all sins save it be the shedding of innocent blood or denying the Holy Ghost." Jacob represents the Lord as saying, "I, the Lord God, delight in the chastity of women. And whoredoms are an abomination before me; thus saith the Lord of Hosts." And in the letter of Mormon to Moroni, from which we have already quoted, chastity, virtue is stated to be "the most dear and precious thing" in the world, and "above all things."

That will give an idea of the value which the Nephites placed upon chastity.

Of course, the Nephites, as well as the Jaredites, believed in marriage and the family life. This is evident on almost every page of the Book of Mormon. Over and over again reference is made in "Ether" to the large families of the first Jaredites. And the journey of the Lehites to the Promised Land was delayed, as you remember, so that the sons of Lehi might have wives from the family of Ishmael.

Marriage is ordained of God. It is primarily a religious ordinance. In other words, marriage is a thing of the spirit as well as of the body. At all events, it is this ceremony that makes any union of the sexes valid. And any union of the sexes outside of this ritual is unholy. Herein lies chastity and herein lies unchastity, according to the Book of Mormon.

But men and women, under the religious polity of the Nephites, were required to do more than so