The American's Creed
By Emeline Y. Nebeker

NINETEEN HUNDRED THIRTY-TWO! This is the year that all over the United States and in many other parts of the world the Two Hundredth Anniversary of the birth of George Washington will be celebrated.

As planned by the United States George Washington Bicentennial Commission, the celebration will not be confined to any one locality or to a few localities. It will be everywhere. The commission's request is as follows:

"Each of the programs should be opened with patriotic music, and then followed by the 'Pledge to the Flag' and 'The American's Creed.' The programs should be closed with the singing of "The Star-Spangled Banner."

No doubt we all can repeat the "Pledge to the Flag," but how many of us know "The American's Creed," who wrote it, when it was written and how it came to be.

In 1916, when the country was in the throes of the World War, a contest for "A Creed" was conducted through the Press of the entire United States. This creed was to express the basic principles of American political faith. This contest was won and "The American's Creed" as we have it today, written by William Tyler Page, Clerk of the United States House of Representatives. It was adopted and promulgated by the Government's Committee on Publication in 1917; and accepted by the House of Representatives on behalf of the American people, April 3, 1918.

Mr. Page says:

"The American Creed is a summing up, in one hundred words, of the basic principles of American political faith. It is not an expression of individual opinion upon the obligations and duties of American citizenship or with respect to its rights and privileges. It is a summary of the fundamental principles of American political faith as set forth in its greatest documents, its worthiest traditions, and by its greatest leaders.

"Knowing the Apostles' Creed to have been a compilation expressing the Apostles' doctrine and principles, which they practiced long before the Creed was formulated, and that the source of its articles were the books of the Holy Bible, I resolved at once to write a civic creed of like form but of different substance. But where was I to find a secular bible, so to speak! Then the thought came to me: My sources of information must come from recognized, authoritative, historical documents. I did not want to use my own words. No creed worthy the name could be written in the words of any one man which could express the belief or the faith of so many others. A Creed, it seemed to me, should contain those things to which its subscribers had believed all along, but which never had been brought together concretely. It must be a composite and so readily recognized as to be accepted without much, if any, controversy.

"To the Creed I added a key showing the sources of the various sentences."

The American's Creed

"I believe in the United States of America as a Government of the people, by the people, for the people; whose just powers are derived from the consent of the governed; a democracy in a republic, a sovereign Nation of many sovereign States; a perfect union, one and inseparable, established upon those principles of freedom, equality, justice, and humanity for which American patriots sacrificed their lives and fortunes. I therefore believe it is my duty to my country to love it; to support its constitution; to obey its laws; to respect its flag, and to defend it against all enemies."

The Key

"The United States of America"—Preamble of Constitution of U. S.

"A government of the people, by the people, for the people."—Abraham Lincoln's Gettysburg speech and Daniel Webster's speech in Senate, Jan. 26, 1830.

"Whose just powers are derived from the consent of the governed."—Thos. Jefferson in the Declaration of Independence.

"A democracy in a republic."—James Madison in the Federalist No. 10; Article X of the Amendments to the Constitution.

"A sovereign nation of many sovereign states."—"E Pluribus Unum," great seal of the U. S.; Article IX of the Constitution.

"A perfect union."—"To respect its Flag."—National Anthem, the "Star-Spangled Banner," Army and Navy Regulations.

"And to defend it against all enemies."—Oath of Allegiance, Section 1757, Revised Statutes of the U. S.

The writer deeply appreciates the courtesy extended by Mrs. Josephine Jane Woodruff Sarle for permission to quote from a personal letter she received from the author of The American's Creed.