Into Whatsoever House
By Fontella S. Calder

"OH, dear, I can't seem to make it go right!" sighed Pamela Brent, as she bent anxiously over her sewing. There were two worried lines in her brow, and the corners of her mouth drooped forlornly. If you had observed closely they might also have seen an occasional tear find its way down on the material she was trying to fashion into a coat, for her little four year old daughter.

Donna was ,at this very moment, tossing in a feverish sleep. Every time that hoarse cough came from the direction of the couch, it gave a tug at Pamela's heart. "I really must do something for the child," she said. "There isn't a thing in the house I could rub on her chest—and no money!"

There was that word, money, again. How it had occupied her mind these last few weeks. Besides the usual household expenses there was Celia, in her first year at high school—and Robert. Only that morning Robert had said, "Say, Moms, when do I get some new shoes? I met Miss Blake, my Sunday School teacher, last night. She wanted to know why I hadn't been to Sunday School lately. Gee, I didn't want to tell her it was because I didn't have any decent shoes." It did take a lot of shoes for an active, healthy boy of nine!

There was also the problem of a new coat for herself. She had worn her present one three seasons. True, it had been a beautiful, expensive coat; and did not look badly worn. But three seasons were just the limit for any coat, no matter how it looked!

Things in the Brent household had been at high tension for weeks. The little savings were exhausted; winter was approaching and John Brent was without work.

It seemed a shame that the depression, which was sweeping the world, should so mercilessly creep into happy homes; upsetting the peace and love abiding there, with thin excuses for complaints and unkind words.

John Brent was a carpenter in a small town, and until the present time, had made a comfortable living for his little family.

It was no wonder that Pamela's lovely face was clouded with discouragement, as one distressing thought after another, passed through her mind. "If only John hadn't said what he did this morning before he went away." With a sigh, she glanced around the disorderly room, at the three Jack-o'-lanterns, whose grinning faces seemed to mock her. Only that morning little Donna in her play had carried them from the back porch, where they had been discarded by the children, after their hallowe'en frolic the previous Saturday.

Of course she knew, in her heart, that John had not intended to be cruel. It was because he was so worried. But it had seemed so unkind to her and the children, when he had said: "The very idea, three perfectly good pumpkins wasted, and people in the world starving to death! Seems to me they might have been put to better use, baked into pies, like my mother used to make!" and John knew she never had achieved a right successful pumpkin pie. He knew, too, she was thrifty, and never let anything go to waste.

With a sudden angry start, she laid aside her sewing and arose to remove the offending pumpkin faces. As she did so another rasping cough came from the child on the couch, giving her nerves another tightning tug.

Approaching the door, laden with the Jack-o-lanterns, she was startled by a knock—"Another collector I suppose," she complained as she deposited her burden on the kitchen table, and turned to the living room door. When the door was opened, however, she was not greeted by the expected collector, but by two pleasant-faced women. The elder of the two spoke in a kind, gentle voice:

"How do you do, Sister Brent. We are the New Relief Society teachers on this block. We are very happy to find you here today. You were not at home last month when we called."

Pamela extended her hand, first to Sister Benson, and then to Sister Miller. As she invited them to be seated there seemed to flash over her consciousness the reason for the increasing troubles of the past two months. She had missed the visiting teachers. Then Celia had felt she needed a new dress; had stayed from church. In fact, during the past two months there had never been a time, when they had all seemed suitably outfitted to go to church. So they had remained at home, inventing one flimsy excuse after another, until the spirit of God had ceased to dwell in their hearts.

"We are sorry you have a sick child, Sister Brent. What are you doing for her cold?" This from Sister Benson, who was always solicitous at the least signs of approaching illness.

Pamela was a bit confused as she confessed she had done nothing. "She seemed all right this morning. It is just since she lay down after luncheon that this cough started; and I didn't have a thing to doctor her with."

"Mustard plasters are very good," said Sister Benson, who was somewhat of an authority, having raised a family of eight children in the days when drug store preparations were little used.

"Well, I really never thought of that," Pamela admitted. "My children have always been healthy. They have seldom had even a cold, so I haven't had much experience with mustard plasters."

"You are indeed fortunate to have your children so healthy, Sister Brent. If you have the mustard I would be glad to prepare a plaster for you." The necessary articles were quickly produced.

While the plaster was being prepared by Sister Benson, Pamela was telling of her difficulties with the coat she was trying to make to the interested Sister Miller, who said:

"I believe I can help you with that, because I just completed a made-over one, for my article to the Relief Society this year."

Pamela smiled her appreciation as she said "I didn't use to be so dumb when we were taking domestic art together in high school. Little did I expect then that I would be reduced to the necessity of making coats for my children out of old ones. It's humiliating!"

"It is very interesting," corrected Sister Miller; and seeing here an opening for that month's topic, she continued, "Pamela, what is the cause of the trouble in the world today? Isn't it because people have been striving for worldly goods and riches, and forgetting to keep the commandments of God? Jesus said, 'But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you'." Then Sister Miller read some beautiful quotations from the Relief Society magazine. As they were discussed by the three women, a great peace came into the heart of Pamela Brent; entirely erasing the tired discouraged lines from her face, and turning up the corners of her mouth in a pleasant smile.

"Oh, by the way," said Sister Benson, as the two women prepared to leave, "seeing those Jack-o-lanterns out there in the kitchen reminded me that I have here"—and she reached in her purse—"a recipe for delicious pumpkin pie; if you would like to have it, Sister Brent. It was given me by my new neighbor who says it comes straight from her mother's kitchen in New England."

One could hardly describe the happy light in Pamela's eyes, as she received the recipe and thought of the surprise in store for John.

It was a changed woman, who closed the door behind her departing guests, after bidding them come again, and promising that she would try to attend Relief Society more regularly in the future. With peace in her soul, and a prayer on her lips that God would make her baby well, soon she turned to care for little Donna.

After following the advice of Sister Benson, she sat by the little one's bedside until restful sleep and easy breathing told her that her little daughter would soon be well. Then she quietly hurried out to the kitchen where the Jack-o-lanterns still grinned at her from the table. But this time she laughed back—"Why you old ugly pumpkin faces, I believe I can still make a pie out of you! and when Robert comes from school I'll have him kill a chicken." She laughed to herself at the surprise in store for her family as her nimble fingers prepared the pastry for the pies, and set it in the ice-box to chill.

"I'm so anxious to get at that coat," Pamela continued, still talking to the pumpkins she was now slicing and trimming carefully. "It looks so cunning now that Sister Miller has basted it together just as it should go—and Robbie's shoes—I really must look at those shoes; perhaps if they were polished and had some new laces they wouldn't be so bad. It isn't right for me to encourage the child to stay from Sunday School because his shoes are a little shabby. It is teaching him to place value on the wrong things in life."

Pamela heard her husband whistling as he approached the house that evening. She listened in astonishment, because he hadn't done that for weeks. She soon learned the reason for his loyalty, however. He caught her in his arms, as he entered the door, and waltzed her around the room, fairly shouting as he did so—"Pam dear, I've the jolliest news—Doc. Wilson—bless his heart—well, you know, he took over the old Johnson property last spring; and now he has conceived the idea of doing some developing while prices are low. He is going to take those two old ramshackle houses and make them over, into modern apartments—and that means work for your old man, and a new coat for his little wife!"

Pamela's face was glowing as she said, "Why, John, that is splendid. I am so glad—but, I have decided