[Vol25 | July 1938 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Guide | Title: Lesson Department - Theology and Testimony - Lesson 1: The Mediterranean World in the Days of the Apostles]

Lesson Department
Theology and Testimony
Lesson 1
THE MEDITERRANEAN WORLD IN THE DAYS OF THE APOSTLES
Helpful References
H. E. Dana, The New Testament World, pp. 126-162. (Second Ed., Pioneer Publishing Co., Fort Worth, Texas. 1928.) Dana's book will be found the best single practical reference for this and the following lesson. This book is now out of print. Some second-hand copies may possibly be obtained at Blessing Book Stores, Inc., Chicago, Ill.
B. W. Robinson, The Life of Paul, pp. 5-24. (University of Chicago Press, Chicago, Ill. 1918.) Note the list of supplementary readings on p. 24. If you have access to a library some of the books mentioned will probably be available.
J. P. Smyth, The Story of St. Paul's Life and Letters, pp. 8-14. (James Pott & Co., New York. 1921.)
T. G. Tucker, Life in the Roman World of Nero and St. Paul, pp. 16-29, 238-259. (The Macmillan Co., New York. 1911.) A very readable work by a great classical scholar. Valuable to those persons who wish an intimate view of Roman life in the days of the apostles. Consult good library.
The World into Which the Apostles Came.—The apostles of Christ came into a world already old. Many civilizations had risen, flourished, decayed and fallen around the Mediterranean Sea long before they appeared on the scene. The great nations of Egypt, Babylonia, Assyria and Persia had played their parts on the world's stage and had departed. The influence of Greece was still wonderfully felt in the days of the apostles, but her glory had departed as a nation. Rome was now the great world power. All of the civilized peoples of northern Africa, western Asia and southern Europe were under the political sway of the Romans.
Travel by Land in the Roman Empire.—The Roman Empire has been variously estimated as containing from fifty to seventy-five millions of peoples of many nationalities, speaking many different tongues and possessing varied customs. These people were of differing degrees of culture and advancement. It is a remarkable commentary on the Romans that they were bringing the world to a state of peace and order. They built wonderful roads, fostered commerce and travel, made intercourse safe and easy between most parts of the empire, often protected the Christian missionaries from the fury of mobs. The traveler would find milestones in the shape of short pillars near the highway on which he traveled. Guidebooks and charts were common. They gave all information necessary such as distances, stopping-places, inns, and even told about the sights most worth seeing while on the journey. Professional guides were available in most places of special interest such as Egypt, Syria and Greece. Travelers rode on asses, mules and horses or took their ease in two or four-wheeled vehicles, depending on their circumstances. According to Professor Tucker "the rich man, traveling, as he necessarily would, with a train of servants and with full appliances for his comfort, would journey in a coach, painted and gilded, cushioned and curtained, drawn by a team showily caparisoned with rich harness and coloured cloths." It was not unusual for people to travel seventy to one hundred miles a day. Special couriers often traveled one hundred and fifty miles in one day.
Travel By Sea.—The amount of travel by sea was remarkable. Vessels were often of a good size, ranging from 500 tons up to 1100 or more. In dimensions they were often 200 feet long and 50 broad. Paul the Apostle speaks of his ship carrying 276 passengers (Acts 27: 37) and Josephus mentions a ship on which he traveled that carried 600 persons. Certain war vessels could carry as high as a thousand soldiers. Freight of from 250 to 1,500 tons was carried by vessels plying the seas. Regular sailing lines were established. The ancient apostles would have no trouble making their way about the Mediterranean world by water. Shipwrecks were not uncommon, as they always were in the days of sailing vessels. But the relative ease of travel was a great advantage in spreading the Gospel.
An Intimate View of Roman Life.—The Roman world of that day had its morning newspapers, its trade unions, its loan sharks, its war-profiteers, its Socialistic agitators, its complaint about the decay of the middle classes and the falling birthrate, its crowded cities and depopulated countryside, its fully organized credit and banking systems. It has been pointed out that practically every comfortable villa of the first century A. D. had a hot-air heating system. It is a well-known fact that their vices were nearly the same as in our own age. They were gambling, luxury, and a mad rush for wealth, together with appalling sexual immorality and a degrading idleness among the very rich and the very poor. They had their professional athletes and actors who earned fabulous sums, they had their comic artists and cartoonists, they had their horse-races and betting on horses, they had public libraries in every moderately large town (the donor's names were duly recorded), and their book, art and curio-collectors. Universities were in existence in certain key cities that attracted students from all parts of the Roman world. There were itinerant lecturers aplenty and even "honorary" degrees were awarded. The dictation of letters was nearly as common in the first century as today and at least three different systems of shorthand were in vogue.
Social Revolution in the First Century.—The first century was one of social revolution. The Roman nobles had lost their wealth and prestige and the grumbling of the "common people" was bringing about a social upheaval. Scarcely two generations after Christ's death hundreds of thousands of unemployed burst into Rome and surrounded the imperial palace howling for bread.
Roman Princes and Freedmen.—Roman princes and senators were forbidden by law to increase their fortunes by commerce. Honest toil was despised by them. The noble class were often obliged by reason of extravagant tastes and the cost of holding public office to promise freedom to their slaves in return for carrying on financial plans more energetically. Many of these freedmen became wealthy captains of industry. Their gorgeous banquets and excessive orgies in which they displayed their vulgarity and ignorance won them the ill-will of the cultured poor and the titled nobility.
Poverty Widespread in the Roman World.—Most of the freedmen with whom the early Christians worked were not wealthy. The proportion of poor to rich was much higher in the days of the apostles than it is today. Poverty was more widespread than now, and it has been pointed out that for the first time in history the poor man had become dangerous.
Corporations and Monopolies.—Corporations and monopolies had such control of foodstuffs that some fifty years before Christ nearly 300,000 persons had to be fed by the State in order to survive. Politicians courted the favor of citizens by promising gifts of foodstuffs and free shows.
Religious Tolerance of the Romans.—With all their failings the Romans were tolerant for the most part in matters of religion. They recognized the value of religion and were wise enough not to interfere with it in the countries they conquered, provided their own civil requirements were observed.
Roman Rule in the Provinces.—The Romans were quite generally wise and generous in their administration of conquered states. They did not interfere with laws and customs already established so far as these were compatible with the rule of Rome. Some provinces were governed by vassal kings, who were subject to Rome and paid a certain tribute. The Herods of the New Testament are good examples of this custom. Generally a Roman governor was appointed directly from Rome by either the Senate or the Emperor. These governors were charged with keeping the province in subjection to Rome, collecting taxes, and administering justice wherever a matter concerned Roman law. Local courts tried violators of local laws. A defendant might appeal directly to Rome if he was a Roman citizen. It was under this provision that Paul appealed to Caesar.
Greece the Roman Schoolmaster.—In the days of the apostles Greece had long been a province of Rome. But the Romans recognized that the Greeks were their intellectual and artistic superiors. The result was that the Greeks became the schoolmasters to Rome. "The entire first century world went to school to Hellas—and the world has not yet quit going to school to Hellas." It is no exaggeration to say, "Greece captive led enthralled her captor." The Greeks contributed mightily not only to Rome but to our own western culture as well. What would philosophy, art, literature and science have been without the clear-thinking Greeks?
Greek Language and Literature in the Roman World.—When Alexander the Great went forth to conquer, the Greek language was planted in most of the countries he subdued. It became the chief medium of expression in the eastern Mediterranean basin. Rich in vocabulary and capable of expressing accurately subtle distinctions in thought it became a popular tongue. When the Romans conquered Greece they carried the Greek language back with them to the West. It became the chief literary medium and was a commonly spoken tongue even in imperial Rome. When the apostles and other Christian missionaries carried the Gospel to the West they could make themselves understood almost anywhere they chose to go because of their knowledge of Greek. The spread of this richly expressive language would seem almost providential. Greek was one of the chief languages in Palestine and it appears almost certain that Christ and most of his apostles knew something about it even though their ordinary means of expression was Aramaic. At any rate the Gospel of John takes it for granted that the knowledge of Greek was common in Galilee. Pilate, Felix, and Festus, the representatives of the Roman government, seem to have used it, for the Palestinian inscriptions referring to the Roman Emperors, when of a non-military nature, were written mostly in Greek. Josephus tells us that it was only in the army that the Latin language ruled supreme.
The Greeks had a wonderful literary tradition. The beauty of Greek literature has had, and still has, great influence upon the literature of even our own day. It should not surprise us, therefore, to find that Greek literature was supreme in the Roman world. Cultivated minds were familiar with Homer's Iliad and Odyssey as a matter of course, and the poems of such men as Theognis, Pindar, Bacchylides, Alcaeus, Sappho and Simonides, as well as the historical prose productions of Thucydides, Herodotus and Xenophon were widely read; Greek works on rhetoric and oratory would also be well known. Among good thinkers the works of Plato, Aristotle, Anaximander, Pythagoras and other Greek philosophers would be much sought after and studied. We cannot help but feel that the ancient apostles would make themselves somewhat acquainted with the literature and thought of their day. Certainly the apostle Paul could hold the attention of cultured Athenians so long as he did not offend by speaking on the doctrine of the resurrection. There is some evidence from the New Testament that Paul was familiar with certain Greek writers (Acts 17:28; 1 Cor. 15:33; Tit. 1:12.)
From what we have already pointed out it will be seen how important it is to know something of the world in which the apostles moved if we are to understand their work and ministry.
Questions and Problems
(Deal only with as many as time will permit.)
1. In what ways was the Roman government an aid to the spread of the Gospel in the days of the apostles?
2. Compare methods of travel in the age of the apostles with those in vogue among our pioneer forefathers.
3. Compare Roman life with that in our own age.
4. Can you make some interesting comparisons between the social revolution of the First Century and that in our country in the past few years?
5. Name as many elements in our civilization as you can for which we are indebted to the Greeks.
6. What problems would confront the ancient apostles due to the widespread poverty?
Pronouncing Vocabulary
Theognis—thē ŏg' nĭs
Pindar—pĭn'där
Bacchylides—bă kĭl' ĭ dēz
Alcaeus—ăl sē' ŭs
Sappho—săf' ō
Simonides—sĭ mŏn' ĭ dēz
Herodotus—hē rŏd' ō tŭs
Zenophon—zĕn' ō phŏn
Plato—plā' tō
Aristotle—ăr' ĭs tŏt' l
Anaximander—ăn ăk' sĭ măn' der
Pythagoras—pī thăg' ō răs
Thucydides—thū sĭd' ĭ dēz