[Vol25 | July 1938 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature for Missions]

Literature for Missions
TYPICAL WOMEN OF THE CHURCH
INTRODUCTION
IN the following lessons, each one dealing with a different personality, we give a brief outline of the life activities of seven outstanding women?outstanding in the sense that they are typical women of the Church?distinguished for their Christian virtue which they continually and consistently applied in solving the difficult and perplexing problems of their lives. These lessons will prove interesting not because they deal with romance and titled or renowned ladies, nationally or internationally known, but with women in the ordinary walks of life who nobly met and successfully solved problems and difficulties similar at least to those that most women know more or less about. But to know about difficulties is one thing; to know how to solve them is quite another thing. Hence we always get courage, strength and inspiration in learning how others in our walks of life, or similar ones, succeeded in solving their difficult and perplexing problems. Herein lies the value of these lessons. Women who lived in or near our own times and on the same planes of life as we move indicate to us in no uncertain tones how we too may make our lives happy and successful. Thus they teach us the most precious lessons found in life.
Every successful life must be properly motivated. And the seven women, whose lives are herein sketched, were all successful. In what ways they were successful and in what ways motivated will be discovered by a careful study of these sketches.
Typical Women of the Church
Lesson 1
ANNA THERESE MEITH MAESER?A CHOICE SAXON SPIRIT
THE story of this lesson has its beginning in the old and famous city of Dresden, Germany. It was here that Anna Therese Meith was born May 4, 1830, more than one hundred years ago. Does blood tell? What influence do heredity and environment have on our lives? Does like beget like, even in the human family? Let us see.
Anna's father, Emmanuel Meith, was director of the Budich Institute, an outstanding Lutheran college in Neustadt, Dresden. His position indicates that he was a man of talents and ability. Her mother, Henrietta Meith, was also a woman of ability as a home maker, who came of a long line of well educated and talented people. Anna Meith, therefore, was reared in an environment of culture and refinement and associated with the elite of Germany. She was a diligent student, immaculate in person, witty and vivacious, as became her station.
Karl G. Maeser, a young professor, who had been taken from a high school position and made vice-director to Herr Meith, was fortunate in winning the esteem and love of the admirable Anna Meith. They were married June 11, 1854. The wedding was one of considerable importance. The Lutheran Church in Dresden was a bower of flowers. The dainty bride in her fluffy white lace was lovely, and the bridegroom in a pale blue satin waistcoat was distinguished.
For one year this couple continued in the agreeable life of college people. Then a change came. They heard and accepted the doctrines of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and on October 19, 1855, Anna joined the Church, following a divine manifestation to Brother Maeser on October 14. The story of how her husband came to join the Church is charmingly told by his son, Reinhard Maeser, in a biography of Karl G. Maeser, published by the Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah, in 1928.
The miracle here referred to occurred when, after his baptism, Karl was walking home with President Franklin D. Richards of the European Mission and Elder William Budge. President Richards could speak no German and Karl no English. So Elder Budge was acting as interpreter as they walked along. "Suddenly I stopped Elder Budge from interpreting the President's remarks to me as I understood them perfectly. I replied to him in German and again the interpretation was not necessary, as I was also understood by the President. Thus we kept on conversing until we arrived at the point of separation, when the manifestation as suddenly ceased as it had come," so Karl later wrote. This he testified was in answer to prayer, a proof that God was pleased with what he had done.
Anna Maeser's adjustments to life began when she was baptized at midnight in the river Elbe. Following this ordinance, secrecy attended every movement until she with her husband, small son and other relatives left for America, via London. Arriving in London, the Church authorities prevailed upon Brother Maeser to remain in England for a few months and do missionary work among the Germans living there. The others of the party continued their journey to America. Both Anna and Karl appreciated this opportunity for service but found loneliness in the separation from their intimate associates in Germany.
This little family of four ?Anna, Karl, a small son, and Anna's sister Camilla (then twelve years old), endured many humiliations in a strange land where they did not even know the language. The proud professor was often expected to perform menial tasks such as blackening his shoes and carrying his hand bags, which in his former position he would never have thought of doing. Anna resented her husband doing these humiliating things, but her loyalty to him and his fealty to the Priesthood soon made tasks, which had once seemed so mortifying, become of no consequence to either of them.
After spending one year in England, they sailed for America. It was a happy anticipation for Anna. She would join her sister in Zion. There were now two children, one born in England. The seven weeks' journey on the water was wearisome and full of anxiety, for the little babe was taken violently ill. In spite of all their faith and constant nursing, he died the day they landed, July 4, 1857. This was their first sacrifice in the new world.
Because their money was gone they halted on their way to Salt Lake City in Philadelphia where they made their first American home, occupying an upstairs room in a tenement house. But an industrial depression was on so employment was scarce. Again the Maesers had their faith keenly tested, for Karl was called on a mission to the South. Bewilderment almost overcame them, but the testimony of the Gospel surged through Karl with the spirit, "I'll go where you want me to go, dear Lord." He thought of his lonely wife?a bereaved mother with a small son and a child sister to care for in a strange land. He realized their poverty, but he trusted in God, and God did not forsake them. Karl soon moved his family to Virginia, where, aside from his missionary work, he found part-time employment as a tutor in many prominent families, among which was that of John Tyler, ex-President of the United States. Karl's regular income and Anna's frugality in time made it possible to gather means for the journey to Salt Lake City. So after three years of planning and scheming they returned to Philadelphia. From there they began their journey to Utah in June, 1860.
One's imagination can make many interesting pictures of the Maesers on the plains,?Karl driving an ox-team, Anna serving dinner by a campfire, dainty little Camilla shrugging her shoulders in disgust when they told her to pick up buffalo chips (droppings of the buffalo, a species of wild ox, plentiful in those days on the plains east of the Rocky Mountains). They arrived in Salt Lake City September 1, 1860.
For a time they lived with the Schoenfeldt's where they used a covered wagon box as a bedroom. The little family again faced extreme poverty. The two little children, one born in Philadelphia, hungrily cried themselves to sleep night after night. However, Karl's determination and Anna's practical ambition soon cleared the way for a home. A house was being built, one room partly finished, when another sacrifice was laid upon the altar of their faith. Karl was called on a mission to Germany and Switzerland in May, 1867. It was a great honor for Karl, but at what a price to the little woman who must stay behind. At the time Karl was without means, save for fifty cents, which he gave to his wife. This she carefully wrapped in court-plaster and put away. Then she courageously faced the task of providing for her family. For a livelihood she took in sewing, and oftentimes she went out scrubbing and cleaning. Work to her was not irksome, but to her proud spirit the humiliation of being a servant was very trying. Then too, she would compare her children's lack of opportunity with her own beautiful childhood. In her lonely hours she would dream of Germany?the gardens, the operas and her own girlhood home. How she longed to see them again!
In July, 1870, Karl returned. All the hardships were forgotten in the joy of reuniting. Many days before, the home-coming preparations had been going on. The house had been finished. Carpets were on the floors, curtains at the windows and a real dinner prepared. Anna met Karl at the train and laughingly presented to him the same fifty cents he had given her three years before.
After Karl's return life became brighter. Many kind friends came into their home. Karl was a social leader; ward and house parties were incomplete without the Maesers. Karl now taught school for several years in the Twentieth Ward, Salt Lake City. Due to his strong and winning personality, his excellent character, his skill as a teacher, etc., his school grew more and more in size and favor. So when President Young felt that a system of Church schools should be begun he called Karl G. Maeser and said, "Brother Maeser, I have another mission for you." This announcement nearly took Karl's breath away. He had already thrice answered the call for foreign missionary service. But the President continued, "We have been considering the establishment of a Church school and are looking around for a man to take charge of it. You are the man. We want you to go to Provo (45 miles south of Salt Lake City) to organize and conduct an Academy as a Church school. And remember," the President continued, "you ought not to teach even the alphabet or the multiplication tables without the Spirit of God." This was in the spring of 1876. And on April 24
Karl began teaching in Provo. The school he founded was named the Brigham Young Academy, changed about twenty-five years later to the Brigham Young University. This school was the "mother" of many other academies and has always been the leading L. D. S. Church school. Karl G. Maeser's Church-wide fame began with the opening of the Brigham Young Academy.
The training and experiences of himself and wife Anna in Saxony, and all that they had gained since joining the Church until now, made them the very people needed to found the new school. Brother Maeser was soon recognized as the leading educator in the Church, a position he maintained until his death, February 15, 1901.
On moving to Provo in 1876
Anna Maeser devoted herself as a good housewife assiduously to making a new home for her family. Reared in a refined and cultured Saxon home, she had between that time and going to Provo passed through depths of poverty, trials and tribulations, but had never faltered in her loyalty either to her husband or Church. Her faith in God never wavered nor did her testimony of the divinity of the Church ever become weak. Nor did she ever lose the spirit of generosity and hospitality. While her love of home and family were always paramount in her mind, she did not confine that interest to her own immediate family, but to all who might come beneath her roof, whether they be relatives, friends or beggars. And so the last twenty years of her life were peacefully and happily spent as she continued her work in making a pleasant home, in rearing her children and in supporting her noble husband in his many and varied public duties. She was the mother of eight children, and those who grew up were all devoted to the Church. Sister Maeser passed away April 2, 1896, in Salt Lake City, while visiting her sister, Camilla Cobb. It was on Thursday, fast day, when the news reached Provo. A close friend and neighbor who was at the fast meeting said, "I never knew Sister Maeser until today. She was so unassuming, but the testimonies borne of her goodness and kindness and her charitable acts reveal a nature not often found."
TO MY MOTHER
The memory of my mother does not serve In any public place. 'Tis always near the fireside I see her well-loved face.
'Tis time has made the daguerreotype More beautiful by far Than any painted picture Of any living Star.
Through Life's understanding In the school of sorrow taught I read the glorious mission Her loyal heart has wrought
In the lives of all who knew her And came within her care, And it seems to me in heaven There are angels, none more fair.
Items for Consideration
1. Describe the manners and social customs in Saxony among high-grade school teachers during the childhood days of Anna Meith.
2. How do you explain that she could break away from her refined, cultured home in Saxony to associate herself with a people who were yet in the very crude stages of pioneer life, whose modes of living were as different from hers as darkness from light?
3. Remembering that this change was also one from comfort to extreme poverty, what qualities do you think Anna Maeser had?
4. Why do you think most women in the Church have these qualities even though most of them may not be so severely tried?
5. What do you think were the most trying experiences in Anna Maeser's life?
6. Of what benefit were her trials to her?
7. Why do you think Anna Maeser was a noble woman?
8. Why do you think her life was successful?
9. What lessons may we learn from her life?

"If the world is to be saved it must be saved by the passionate idealism of youth. It cannot be saved, however, if it is depleted physically, mentally and morally by drink."?Clifford W. Towlson.
This Year's High School Graduates?WHERE WILL THEY FIND WORK?
Give them the advantage of sharp tools and trained hands. The coupon below will bring full information about opportunities here for intensive training. Summer classes begin June 6 and 13
L. D. S. BUSINESS COLLEGE Salt Lake City 70 North Main
Please send me information about the L. D. S. Business College.
Address ________________________
A Word to the Bride
We are prepared, now, more than ever before, to supply you with the smartest and most modern wedding stationery. New styles, new types, new methods of treatment are constantly being developed to bring smartness and style to this feature of your great adventure. And prices are most reasonable. Call or write today.
The