[Vol25 | July 1938 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Article | Title: The Navajo]

the Navajo nation.
This anxiety was centered around an epidemic of a certain skin disease among little children. I know of this man only as Hard-ridin' Bill.
Bill was what we call a man whose courage matched his convictions; he was not afraid of the task. He took his finest saddle horse and two pack horses laden with home-improvised emergency-hospital equipment, rode into this canyon among the diseased Indians without announcing his purpose, and asked to stay the night. He was told of the danger of contamination, but he remained.
Next morning he was allowed to treat one little child less than a year old. The child was feverish and whimpering. He washed the babe with antiseptic and healing salve, did the child in sterile linens and laid him on his own blankets with no fear. The Indians were greatly astonished at his courage, saying it was not common for white people to conduct themselves this way.
Before the day was out he had treated many others.
During the ensuing week he was swamped with business. As time went on his supplies ran out and he returned to Provo for more materials. In a year he had successfully checked the epidemic. He continued his work longer, learning the Navajo language, their ceremonials, more of their religion, joined their hunting parties, helped in lambing seasons, helped' with shearing, and established himself forever with the people of his adoption. NE day, after all these months and months, he was seated on the river bank facing the East. He was concentrating on passages from the New Testament. His little Jeather-covered black volume was worn and warped from having been carried in his hip pocket while riding hundreds of miles. As he sat reading from this "speaking leaf" with his eyes on the eastern sky he quoted passages. Diminutive Navajos watched him for a while with much alarm, thinking Bill was losing his mind. In great haste they reported to the old Navajo authorities that Bill was crazy; that he was talking to someone they could not see right in the daylight. Old men came out wrapped to their eyes in blankets, stood thoughtfully behind Bill, watching his every move and listening.
Finally the cowpuncher stood up, closed the 'speaking leaf" and replaced it in his hip pocket.
Turning to his old friends he smiled and spoke cordially with all of his accustomed happiness and goodwill.: The reassumption of his normal powers was a tremendous relief to the old men. In pure gentility they 

  RALPH: HUBBARD and War Bonnet made by himself remarked, "Bill, you have learned our language; you know our songs; you join our dances; you have fought storms with us; you have faced starvation with us; and you have done us a great service.
Tomorrow night we hold our big medicine ceremony; will you not join us once more and afterwards tell us of your medicine?" So, Bill visited with his friends, danced, sang and prayed 'way into the night according to the best' prescribed Navajo ethics. And then, amidst a great silence, began telling them of a Medicine Man in long ago days who was nailed to a tree by His own people.
These people had turned against Him; they sought to kill Him, to make Him die in agony, and then to lay away His body. But even His body did not HARD-RIDING BILL remain undaunted—it walked again, the spirit lived—would not leave at once—did great medicine deeds, and finally when it disappeared no one knew what became of the spirit or body. To this day much of it is a mystery. Old Indians asked Bill, "Does the spirit ever come back?" "Oh, yes." "Do some ever hear the spirit speak?"' "Ves." "Does this spirit have the same medicine power?" "Very much so." "Could anyone do this?" "No. " "Did He come back to aula in" "Ves, " "To whom does He come?" "To those who study; to those who have faith." HE lesson taken from this story is essentially the divine revelation and truth that we find in the a 465 simplicity of worship as seen by the great teacher of the Latter-day Saints. Bill, I know him by no other name, walked on the earth with the lowly, the down-trodden, the outcast and the grieved, learning their ways.
Never once did he use the premise that they were inferior and he superior.
Never once did he assume that they were savages and he the so-called civilized.
After proving that he could be worthy of their levels of progress, the moment was created apparently by super-guidance, the people were ready for his story.
They were equals and they: climbed up together.
This is a secret of powerful leadership known to the few. We find the approach thus described has more power behind it than any other work done for the American Indian.
More of the story of Hard-ridin' Bill, I do not know. He remains nameless to me, but this fragment is a tradition among the Navajos. THE TICKENAGAN* By Olive W. Burt ~ Here where the waters flow silent and deep [ll gather willows for thy tickenagan.
Their gift of stillness will comfort thy sleep, When thou art swinging in thy tickenagan, Swinging and swaying in thy tickenagan.
Reeds for the framework must be lithe and strong, Just as thy body must be, little chieftain.
Willows for weaving are supple and long, Just as thy sinews must be, little chieftain— Supple and strong must thou be, little chieftain. Proudly I smile as I serve a young chief, Though I'm but weaving thy small tickenagan; And I shall serve thee through joy and grief After thou leavest thy small tickenagan— But oh, how I'll treasure thy small tickenagan! *A papoose basket woven of willows.