[Vol25 | July 1938 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: Brigham Youngs Qualities]

In the domain of pioneering, exploration and statecraft the subject of our sketch has been shown to be a person of uncommon capacity and abili- BRIGHAM YOUNG'S QUALITIES OF LEADERSHIP 443 ty.
Very few men of this type can step over into the realm of theology and maintain so noble a stride. But here it is that Brigham Young easily glides into the higher realm of thought and philosophy without falling down to the level of illogical, commonplace and petty dogma. It is in this field that he ascends to pure sublimity. As one of many exalted teachings quite common with him I here introduce the biggest idea I have ever encountered. 'lake it for what you will, it stands almost alone in its magnificence of intellectual comprehension and expression. He was speaking on the eternal nature of man and matter.
Here is the idea: "Mankind are organized of element designed to endure to all eternity; it never had a beginning and never can have an end.
There never was a time when that matter, of which you and I are composed, was not in existence; it cannot be annihilated. "It is brought together, organized and capacitated to receive knowledge and intelligence, to be enthroned in glory, to be made angels, Gods—beings who will hold control over the elements, and have power by their word to command the creation and the redemption of worlds, or to extinguish suns by a breath and disorganize worlds, hurling them back into their chaotic state.
This is what you and I are created for." (J. Of D. 3, 356, Dis. Of B. Y. 74.) HE impressive quality of sincerity was always conspicuously manifest in the important affairs that came before him for handling. But at no time in his eventful career did he evince a more sublime courage of his convictions than upon the occasion of his being advised that Johnston's army was on its way to Utah with the avowed purpose of subjecting the people here to military control. The dramatic event occurred at Silver Lake, the head waters of the Big Cottonwood stream.
Nearly twenty-five hundred people had gathered there to celebrate the tenth anniversary of their arrival in the valley.
While men and women, young and old, and little children were enjoying the relaxation which only the exalted valleys of lofty mountains can give, while bands were playing patriotic airs and choruses were singing anthems and hymns, into the festive camp rode three messengers with the startling announcement of WAR.
Instantly were they all changed from care-free, joyous and happy celebrants to fear-stricken, anxious, and almost dismayed belligerents. To their great leader they confidently looked for guidance and doubted not his being equal to the crisis so suddenly thrust before them.
Military control was apparently to be imposed upon them.
With a few preliminary observations, he said, "You may as well tell me that you can't make hell out of a powder house as to tell me that they intend to keep an army here and have peace."
Rising to the heights of the emergency and displaying unsurpassed courage he made what I regard, as the most important statement ever made in the State of Utah. He said: "I feel that I won't bear such treatment, for we are just as free as the mountain air....
This people are free; they are not in bondage to any government on God's footstool. We have transgressed no law, neither do we intend so to do; but as for any nation coming here to destroy this people, God Almighty being my helper, IT SHALL NOT BE." ' Brigham Young in this crisis did not indulge in any such delusion as to think that his handful of impov- 444 erished followers could successfully set up a military resistance to the armies of the United States. But by bold stategy did he keep that army ovt on the plains for about a year.
During this amazing resistance he communicated with Washington and laid the facts before the President and his cabinet.
Friendly intermediaries, conspicuously in this connection, are to be gratefully mentioned. The superb services of a rare and true friend, Thomas L. Kane, than whom our people never had a greater friend, brought both sides to the controversy into conference and when they understood each other the "Utah War" was over. The bold declaration of Brigham Young was not a threat of violence against the government. It was the declaration of a man whose people were about to become the hapless victims of prejudice and misinformation.
Time was needed to lay the facts before the government and things must be held in abeyance till that could be done. The great leader of the Mormon people, with the full courage of the rightfulness of his convictions, successfully set up a defiant resistance.
What he really had in mind to do rather than submit to such treatment as he had seen meted out to his people in Missouri and Illinois was to utterly destroy every vestige of civilization and culture existing here at the time. Not a blade of grass, nor a straw of grain or hay would be left in the field. Not a picket of a fence nor a fragment of a house or barn would be left standing. All would be destroyed by fire and they who would undertake to drive them from their homes and dispossess them of their lands, would find the place as barren as the pioneers had found it when they arrived here ten years before. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE FARNESTNESS of purpose is "— the one dominant note that runs all through the intensely serious undertakings of Brigham Young's eventful life.
Evidence of insincerity is always destructive of confidence. No man ever enjoyed greater loyalty and more sincere devotion from his followers than did this remarkable man.
From the day he first associated with the Latter-day Saints' cause to the end of his outstanding career he was always constantly under test through which only characters of truest steel can pass unimpaired. High-minded, enlightened men, men of character and superior intelligence went at his wishes to colonize or perform missions when and where he advised. To remote and unknown parts they went with their families and established settlements, reclaiming the desert, building up the waste places, extending the influence of the Church and introducing, everywhere, a high order of civilization.
This extraordinary man exerted such power over his devoted followers that thousands of lives were definitely shaped under his guidance and friendly counsel. The exercise of such power exists only on the basis of unquestioned sincerity and earnestness of purpose.
These qualities are the keys to his great character. HE great secret of his hold upon his fellows was the consciousness on their part of his sincere desire to promote in every way their welfare and happiness both for this life and the one to come. I tell just one story beautifully illustrative of the bond of sympathy which existed between him and his fellows.
This incident was told me by my old, gifted friend, the late Alfred Lambourne. He was a close student of nature in all her various forms, and with the deep insight of both poet BRIGHAM YOUNG'S QUALITIES OF LEADERSHIP 445 and artist human nature was rich in its yield to his searching powers. President Young never forgot his * old-time friends and early-day associates. | When approaching the sunset of life he habitually paid regular visits to the homes or the shops of those old comrades. On one such occasion he entered the blacksmith shop of such a fellow workman. The President was always graceful and dignified in bearing and appearance. As he approached the blacksmith with the ringing anvil between them he extended his soft, shapely, small hand. Its evident refinement reaching toward him rather dismayed or embarrassed the masculine worker of iron. As he laid the heavy hammer on the vibrant anvil his own hand fell like lead beside his leathern apron. It grew increasingly heavy like the metal it fashioned and hammer it wielded. Its weight increased as the embarrassing moments slowly passed.
Another look at his own large hand, black and defaced with labor, and the smith could not lift his hand to meet the President's At this flashing crisis the President stooped low and wiped his soft, white hand in the soot and grime of the floor and then arising again extended it.
Instantly in the bonds of an undying comradeship their hands firmly met and their hearts also met, never to be separated. COLUMBUS had the masterful personality—the earnestness of purpose and the courage to quell the mutineers or America might have remained in obscuration even to this day. Brigham Young had similar and still greater powers to cope with a vicious ruffianism and reckless, unpurposeful attitude at Chimney Rock or this great intermountain empire might to this day be either a sparsely settled country or a nonproductive wilderness. And while he never again had serious rebellion or sedition to contend with in so formidable a manner yet, after the arrival here in 1847, he saw many periods of wavering and a disposition on the part of some to retreat and turn from their noble objective. The cricket war though providentially terminated left many of the pioneers sadly discouraged with respect to their making a go of it in this country.
Disappointment led to discouragement and then followed dissatisfaction.
Crop failure caused many to regard as futile any further planting of seed in this sterile soil. One said, "I'll save my seed grain to plant in California."
Others were bent on returning to the more fertile soil of Ohio or Illinois. The obvious need of an inspired leader to meet these discouragements had arrived.
Added to these repellent forces came the allureménts of the gold fever which was raging in California in 1848 and 1849. The great qualities of earnestness of purpose, clearness of vision, grasp of intellect, readiness of resources and courage of convictions were all needed to meet this new crisis which had arisen. All such qualities combined were needed to win in this great conflict. To consolidate the ground, they had taken from the desert; to succeed now and here was imminently necessary. To have shifted ground one inch would have been disastrous, more so than at Chimney Rock.
Retreat would have been self-admitted defeat. At this last great test of the enterprise there came to Brigham Young all the qualities we have found in him and the one we said at the beginning was necessary to complete the elements of his masterful character, viz) DIVINE INSPIRATION.
446 ISTEN now to the words of the great pioneer, empire builder and prophet as he addressed himself to the problem of 1848.
Said he, "Some have asked me about going to the gold fields of California. I told them that God had appointed this place for the gathering of His Saints, and you will do better right here than you will by going to the gold mines.
Some have thought they would go there and get fitted out and come back, but I told them to stop here and get fitted out.
Those who stop here are faithful to God and His people will make more money and get richer than you that run after the god of this world; and I promise you in the name of the Lord that many of you will go, thinking that you will get rich and come back, will wish you had never gone away from here and will long to come back, but will not be able to do so.
Some of you will come back, but your friends who remain here will have to help you, and the rest of you who are spared to return will not make as much money as your brethren do who stay here and help to build up the Church and Kingdom of God.
They will prosper and be able to buy you twice over.
Here is the place God has appointed for His people. "We have been kicked out of the frying-pan into the fire; out of the fire into the middle of the floor, and here we are and here we will stay. God has shown me that this is the spot to locate His people and here is where they will prosper. He will temper the elements for the good of the Saints. He will rebuke the frost and the sterility of the soil, and the land will become fruitful. Brethren, go to now, and plant out your fruit trees. For in these elements are not only all the cereals common to this latitude, but the apRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ple, peach and plum; yea and the more delicate fruits, the strawberry and raspberry, and we will raise the grape here and manufacture wine; and as the Saints gather here and get strong enough to possess the land, God will temper the climate, and we shall build a city and a temple to the Most High God in this place. We will extend our settlements to the east and west, to the north and south, and we will build towns and cities by the hundreds, and thousands of the Saints will gather in from the nations of the earth.
This will become the great highway of the nation.
Kings and Emperors and the ' noble and wise of the earth will visit here, (and they have) while the wicked and ungodly will envy us our comfortable homes and possessions.
Take courage, brethren. I can stand in my door and can see where there is untold millions of the rich treasures of the earth gold and silver. But the time has not come for the Saints to dig gold. It is our duty first to develop the agricultural resources of this country, for there is no country on this earth that is more productive than this. We have the finest climate, the best water and the purest air that can be found on the earth.
There is no healthier climate anywhere. As for gold and silver and the rich minerals of the earth, there is no other country that equals this, but let them alone; let others seek them, and we will cultivate the soil; for if the mines are opened first we are a thousand miles from any base of supplies, and the people would rush in here in such great numbers they would breed a famine, and gold would not do us or them any good if there were no provisions in the land.
People would starve to death with barrels of gold.
They would be willing to give a barrel of gold for a barrel of flour rather than starve to death. Then, brethren, BRIGHAM YOUNG'S QUALITIES OF LEADERSHIP 447 plow your land, and sow your wheat, plant your potatoes; let the mines alone until the time comes for you to hunt gold, though I do not think this people will ever become a mining people. It is our duty to preach the Gospel, gather Israel, pay our tithing and build temples. The worst fear that I have about this people is that they will get rich in this country, forget God and His people, wax fat and kick themselves out of the Church and go to hell.
This people will stand mobbing, robbing, poverty, and all manner of persecution, and be true. But my greater fear for them is that they cannot stand wealth. And yet they have to be tried with riches for they will become the richest people on the earth." FTER that all-conquering inspiration the great leader had many secondary vicissitudes to pass through, but victory for the valiant 'followers was as certain as though God had spoken it.
Those words, as Chief Arapeen said later, went into both ears and sank deep into the heart to remain there.
Those positive assurances still lie deep in the consciousness of this people even unto the third and fourth generations.
What a man was Brigham Young!
What a leader was he! "Where shall we find a greater example of the undiscouraged, resolute, struggling Soul of Man?"
These things may in part explain why the name of Brigham Young looms with increasing bigness as the decades unfold. (Reprint Deseret News.) <—_- HE KISSED ME He kissed me sweetness." kindness, senior...
By Rachel Barney Taft And whispered, "You are sweet as And I loved him; his face beamed But he was years and years my Yes, I was sixty years his junior; And he adored all little children And I was only five years old then... He was Brigham Young. From Main Street. Pioneer Influence On The Indians By Afton Bernice Pond HEN President Brigham Young said, "This is the place I have seen long since in vision', and the glad cry echoed and re-echoed from tired lips, no sulking red shadow beclouded the general rejoicing of that day. But, somewhere in the background, watching and silent, undoubtedly were Indian scouts, for on the third day after the arrival of the Pioneers in the Great Salt Lake Valley, their camp was visited by Indians.
These visits to the Pioneer camp, for begging and trading, grew in frequency and with constantly increasing numbers, according to historians of the time, until it was necessary for the Mormons on the second Sunday in the valley to adopt a resolution at a public meeting "to trade no more with the Indians except at their own encampments", and to hold out no inducements to their visiting the Pioneer camp. Erastus Snow's Journal, entry of August 1, 1847, reports that there were a number of Indians in the Pioneer camp when this resolution was passed; and whether they learned the import of it or not, during the night they left and visits from them became less frequent. As these redskinned people slipped quietly away, they surely did not sense that these few weary settlers, with their travelbattered wagons, were only the first links of a continuous chain of people seeking peace. Nor did they recognize the beginning of white dominance in the West, and consequent thereon, a new mode of life for the Western Indian. "THE fertile valley which the Mormons accepted as their Land of Promise, and north to the Weber Valley, was claimed by the Goships, whose language and customs were related to those of the Gosiutes. In Chief Goship's prime, it is said, his followers numbered some thousands. But, the Indians had no special resistance for, nor did they understand the proper treatment of the strange diseases of the whites, so that within a short time large numbers had died. In 1848, when an epidemic of measles broke out among them, they assembled at the Warm Springs north of Salt Lake City, and sought relief by bathing in these waters.
Within a few years those who survived of this once proud tribe took up their abode with neighboring tribes and bands. The valleys to the west and south of the Great Salt Lake were the home lands of the Gosiute tribes of the great Shoshone family. In Skull Valley, and across the desert in Deep Creek (Ibapah) permanent camps of Gosiutes were located long before the advent of white settlers. Literally "Desert People" they had learned to know and to use the resources of their ill-favored section, to find in the plant and animal life food for every season, covering for the body, and for every ill a medicine.