[Vol25 | July 1938 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Guide | Title: Literature - The Advance of the Novel - Lesson 1: The Beginnings of the English Novel]

Literature
THE ADVANCE OF THE NOVEL
Lesson 1
THE BEGINNINGS OF THE ENGLISH NOVEL
DEFINITIONS OF A NOVEL
(Gathered by Prof. J. M. Jensen)
"A novel is an interpretation of human life by means of fictitious narrative in prose." — Ernest A. Baker, English writer.
"The novel is a picture of real life and manners, and of the times of which it is written. It gives a familiar relation of such things as pass every day before our eyes, such as may happen to our friend or to ourselves; and the perfection of it is to represent every scene in so easy and natural a manner and to make it appear so probable as to deceive into a persuasion (at least while we are reading) that all is real, until we are affected by the joys or distresses of the persons in the story as if they were our own."—Clara Reever, early English novelist.
"A novel is a record of emotion." —Francis Hovey Stoddard, Professor at New York University.
"The novel may be thought of as a prose fiction, regularly over forty thousand words long, so planned that characters, dialogue, and setting will fuse with all the skill the author can muster in the telling."—Grant C. Knight, University of Kentucky.
During this and the lessons which are to follow, a study will be made of the beginning and advance of the novel. Nearly everybody reads more or less and in our day. Among the choicest of our reading materials are the novels which have poured and which are still pouring from our printing presses. If that is the case, it is well that we should learn what we can about the beginning and the development of this form of creative writing.
Perhaps it would be well to speak further of definitions, even though they are always difficult and we can never say exactly what we mean.
What is a novel, then?
We shall make no attempt to draw fine distinctions, but will suggest distinguishing features of this favorite form of literature.
In the first place, a novel is a long story dealing usually with situations, characters, and complications. Novels vary in length, but we usually think of them, as was indicated in one of Professor Jensen's definitions, as being forty or fifty thousand up to several hundred thousand words in length. If stories are shorter than forty thousand they are usually referred to as short novels or novelettes.
For the reason that all long stories are not novels it may be well to limit our definition still further. Two broad classes into which we may divide longer works of fiction are romances and novels. We must not forget, however, that the line between these two forms is so indistinct and so indefinite that often it fades away entirely and we find one good critic calling a story a novel at the same time that another equally good is calling it a romance. The extremes in both fields, however, are rather easily recognized.
As I remember, it was Fred Lewis Pattee who gave voice to this statement which may be helpful: The romancer sits down to write what he has to tell; the novelist, to write what he thinks or has to say.
William Lyon Phelps, in our text, says upon this subject: "It is somewhat unfortunate, in discussing the history of English prose fiction, that we cannot make a sharp distinction between the words 'romance' and 'novel.' We ought to mean by 'romance' a story where the chief interest lies, not in the characters, but in the events; as, for example, Quentin Durward. By the word 'novel' we should denote a story where the principal stress falls, not in the succession of incidents, but on the development of the characters; an excellent illustration would be The Mill On The Floss."
Professor Phelps, however, goes on to point out the difficulty in making such a distinction as he suggests by stating that many a man has fused the two forms so well that it would be improper to label his product as either. "Henry Esmond," Professor Phelps states, "if a secret ballot could be taken, might possibly be voted the greatest work of fiction in the English language . . ." and yet he intimates that Henry Esmond is hardly a romance and hardly a novel either.
The reader will remember, then, that the term "novel" is a rather loose one designating long prose fiction in which the emphasis is on the character development and the interrelations of the characters rather than on the incidents. If one would sit down and write the story of his own life or that of his father or mother as it unfolded, emphasizing those things which directed character growth, he probably would have a novel when he finished. If he should sit down and write the same story emphasizing what the characters did rather than what they were, he would most likely have a romance. It must not be forgotten that the distinction, in any case, is difficult and in some cases impossible.
There are things of which we can be certain, however. If one is to lay claim to artistic culture and is to enjoy his priceless literary heritage, one must know something of the world's great literature and especially of his own. Americans, of course, are rightful heirs to the English tradition in literature.
The English novel, as we think of it today, had its beginning back in the beginning of the eighteenth century. It was really a tale of adventure, but because of the author's method it might well be called a novel as it is called by no less a person than Professor Phelps and by many other critics.
"The first English novel is still one of the most popular—Robinson Crusoe, by Daniel Defoe, published in 1719," says Phelps.
This long story of the fortunes of a rather incorrigible young man who ran away from home and went to sea, is the forerunner of many other stories which followed a little later.
To Samuel Richardson, another Englishman and contemporary of Defoe, goes the distinction of having written the first analytical or psychological novel. Richardson wrote as his first book a long novel called Pamela, a tale written entirely in the form of letters. This first book of his was followed by volume two of the same story and by other well-known novels such as Clarissa Harlowe and Sir Charles Grandison.
Henry Fielding, Tobias George Smollett, and Laurence Sterne were three other Englishmen living about the same time as Defoe and Richardson, who set the English novel well on its way in three great books known to all casual students of English literature: Tom Jones, Roderick Random, and Life and Opinions of Tristram Shandy.
"Prose fiction dates well before the eighteenth century," says Abel Chevalley in his book The Modern English Novel, "but the English novel goes back no further than that century. Before Defoe, all writing comprised under this name seems to have been imported from abroad. It was not until after Defoe, when Richardson and Fielding had published their books, that England, having patented her goods—if one may so express it—began to export and to conquer; and in her turn distributed over the world the new literary type that she had developed."
Daniel Defoe was born in London, the son of a butcher, in 1661. His father's name was Foe, but Daniel added the prefix De to give the name a little better sound. He is said to have been one of England's most prolific writers, being given credit for being England's first journalist in the modern sense and the author of the interview and the special editorial.