[WomansExponent | Vol35 | 1906 | September | Issue: 3 | Title: News About Women | Author: Unknown]

		NEWS ABOUT WOMEN.
	A new line of work is opening for trained
nurses. Many of the big transatlantic
liners are now carrying a pair of trained
nurses on each trip, and it is said that
they make such a good thing out of it that
others are sure to follow.		Ex.
	The international conference in Den-
mark, if it accomplishes nothing else, will
open the eyes of Europeans to the aggres-
sive nature of the movement to give to
women a legal, political, educational and
social statuts equal to that of men. The
time has gone by to deride that move-
ment. In spite of numerous defeats, it is
surely gaining ground.—Anaconda (Mont.)
Standard.
	The large number of Whitehall women
who went to the polls yesterday and re-
gistered their choice for school trustees
was a step forward and an advance in ci-
vilization. It forcibly reminds us that the
time is coming when woman will be al-
lowed the use of the ballot at any elec-
tion, and that she is step by step severing
the disfranchisement which an unfair cus-
tom has thrown around her.—Whitehall
(N. Y.) Times.
	In the State of Washington, the hus-
band still has the legal right to will the
children away from their mother. He
can thus bequeath even a child that is un-
born at the time of the father’s death.

[Column 2]
Less than three years ago a husband willed
an unborn baby away from its mother,
because his religious belief differed from
hers, and the child was taken from her
arms at two weeks old. Nor is this law a
relic of barbarism handed down from the
remote past. It was enacted in 1896. Yet
the opponents of equal rights assure us
that the laws are “more than just to
women.”					Ex.
	We had the pleasure, of meeting Lady
Laurier and her distinguished husband
when they visited Salt Lake City about
two years ago, and as many of our people
reside in Canada, we are very glad to
know that Lady Laurier favors woman’s
speaking in public, and has herself opened
the way in the British domain, according
to the following note which appeared in
one of our exchanges.
	“Lady Laurier, the wife of the Premier,
is the only woman who has delivered a
speech in the Canadian House of Parlia-
ment. She was discovered at a reception
at the foot of the throne, and at once a
demand was made for a speech. She was
at first abashed, but ascended the steps
and made what was described as “a pretty
oration.”
	The Czar has signed Finland’s Woman’s
Suffrage bill. This is a great victory for
the women of that little island. Baroness
Alexandra Gripenberg gave a most inter-
esting account of the causes that led to
the recent victory of equal suffrage in that
country, and now that the Czar has signed
the bill it is indeed a triumph. The Ba-
roness has been long associated with the
International Council of Women, and has
been an active worker for the political
freedom of the women of her native land.
She was a representative of Finland at
the Congress of Women at the Columbian
Exposition in Chicago in 1893.


