[Vol34 | July 1947 | Sequence: 11 | Category: Article | Title: Fourth of July Gift]
482 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1947 
!■■■ 
Photograph  submitted  by  Ida  L.  Nash 
FRANKLIN  STAKE  (IDAHO),  LINROSE  WARD  RELIEF  SOCIETY  BAZAAR 
December  6,  1946 
Left  to  right:  Secretary -Treasurer  Clara  Stevenson;  Second  Counselor  Armina 
Bright;  President  Ida  L.  Nash;  First  Counselor  Ruby  Adams. 
Sister  Nash  reports  that  this  was  an  unusually  successful  bazaar.  Aprons,  children's 
clothing,  blouses,  quilts,  and  many  pieces  of  lovely  handwork  were  sold,  as  well  as 
sofa  pillows,  art  objects,  and  various  gift  articles. 
Ined  Fryer  is  president  of  the  Franklin  Stake  Relief  Society. 
FOURTH  OF  JULY 
Christie  Lund  Coles 
Along  the  main  street  of  the  town 
The  children  come  as  once  we  came 
In  gay,  bright  dresses,  starched  and  new, 
To  watch  in  rapture  just  the  same, 
As  floats  in  colorful  array 
And  horses,  pawing  at  the  ground, 
Await  the  signal  to  begin 
The  march  .  . .  with  drum  and  trumpet  sound. 
Here  is  a  day  of  racing,  fun, 
Popcorn,  ice  cream,  candy,  noise 
Made  by  horns  and  caps  laid  swiftly 
By  mischievous  little  boys. 
Wars  change  the  course  of  men  and  earth; 
Youth  goes,  the  old  grow  reconciled; 
Yet  still  a  holiday  evokes 
The  same,  sweet  wonder  in  a  child.

Notes  on  Authors  of  the  Lessons 
HPHIS  year  two  authors  new  to  Re-  his  interpretation  of  the  new  series 
lief  Society  members  appear  as  of  theology  lessons, 
writers    for   Relief    Society.    Elder  Elder  Joseph  Jacobs  was  born  in 
Don  B.  Col  ton,  Director  of  the  Mis-  Aleppo,  Syria.  His  parents  were  con- 
sionary  Home,  Salt  Lake  City,  has  verts  to  the  Church,  and  at  the  age  of 
written  the  theology  lessons  which  sixteen  Joseph  came  to  the  United 
are  based  on  Elder  James  E.  Tal-  States.    He  was  graduated  from  the 
mage's  comprehensive  and  inspira-  Latter-day  Saints  High  School,  and 
tional  book,  Jesus  the  Christ;  and  received  his  master's  degree  in    ac- 
Elder  Joseph  Jacobs  has  written  the  counting  and  business   administra- 
social  science  course,  "Essentials  in  tion  from  the  University  of  Utah. 
Home  Training."  For  many  years  he  was  a  teacher  in 
Elder  Colton,  an  active  and  devot-  the  Salt  Lake  City  schools,  and  for 
ed  Church  worker,  was  born  in  Mo-  two  years  he  had  charge  of  the  home 
na,  Utah,  and  lived  for  many  years  missionaries   in    Ensign    Stake.    In 
in  Vernal.    He   attended   Brigham  1937  he  was  appointed  president  of 
Young  University  and  was  graduated  the  Palestine-Syrian    Mission.    His 
from  the  law  school  of  the  Univer-  wife,  Leone  Openshaw  Jacobs,  now 
sity    of   Michigan.    After    holding  a  member  of  the  General  Board  of 
many    positions    in    the    auxiliary  Relief  Society,  and  their  two  chil- 
organizations  of  the  Church,  (he  is  dren,  Geraldine  and  Lamont,  joined 
now  a  Sunday  School  General  Board  Brother  Jacobs  a  year  later  in  the 
member),  he  served  as  president  of  Holy  Land.     In  1939,  at  the  out- 
the  Eastern  States  Mission  for  four  break  of  the  war,  they  were  recalled 
years.      He  was    president   of   the  to  the  United  States.    At  the  pres- 
Uintah  Stake   for   ten    years.    For  ent  time  Brother  Jacobs  is  a  teacher 
twelve  years  he  represented  Utah  in  of  commercial  subjects  in  the  Roose- 
the  United  States  House  of  Repre-  velt  Junior  High  School,  Salt  Lake 
sentatives.  He  married  Grace  String-  City,  and  is  supervisor  of  the  ward 
ham  of  Vernal,  Utah,  in  1910,  and  teachers  in   the  South   Eighteenth 
they  have  four  children,  Mera,  Alice,  Ward  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 
Glade  Byron,  and  Gwen  Mary.    A  President    Amy    Brown    Lyman 
son  Don  Sterling  died  in  infancy,  continues  her  series  of  discussions 
For  the  past  ten  years  Elder  Colton  on  "Our  Pioneer  Heritage"  for  the 
has  been  director  of  the  Missionary  visiting  teachers'  messages,  con- 
Home  in  Salt  Lake  City,  where  his  sidering  for  this  season  "The  Fruits 
kindly  and  enthusiastic  personality  of  Pioneer  Virtues." 
and  his  scholarly  and  appreciative  The  literature  lessons,  "Literature 
knowledge  of  the  gospel  have  been  a  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants," 
source  of  inspiration  to  thousands  have  been  written  by  Elder  H. 
of  missionaries.  Brother  Col  ton's  Wayne  Driggs,  author  of  the  theol- 
faith  and  diligence  are  reflected  in  ogy  course  for  the  past  three  years. 
For  information  on  Sister  Lyman  and  Brother  H.  Wayne  Driggs,  see  "Notes  on  the 
Authors  of  the  Lessons"  in  the  Magazine  for  July  1946,  page  469. 
Page  483