[Vol34 | July 1947 | Sequence: 20 | Category: Article | Title: Introductory Lesson to Sharp]

Lesson —Introductory Lesson to "Literature of the Doctrine and Covenants" Counselor Marianne C. Sharp For Tuesday, October 7, 1947
Objective: To present a short historical account of the coming forth of the book Doctrine and Covenants, and to call attention to the great work of the Prophet Joseph Smith as a revelator, and the necessity for Latter-day Saints to study the revelations. Historical Account of the Printing of the Doctrine and Covenants THE Doctrine and Covenants of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is one of the four standard works of the Church, the other three being the Bible, the Book of Mormon, and the Pearl of Great Price. The Doctrine and Covenants has been called the scriptures of the dispensation of the fullness of times, and contains ''Revelations Given to Joseph Smith, the Prophet, With some Additions by his Successors in the Presidency of the Church." The first revelation in chronological sequence is section 2 which was given through the Prophet Joseph Smith in Manchester, New - York, September 1823. Section 136 was "given through President Brigham Young, at the. Winter Quarters of the Camp of Israel, Omaha Nation, West Bank of the Missouri River, near Council Bluffs, Iowa, January 14, 1847." 'The revelations contained in the Doctrine and Covenants were given in preparation for the re-establishment of the Church of Jesus Christ on earth and later for the direction of the Church so organized. The first steps taken in regard to publishing the revelations in book form were taken in 1831. The Prophet Joseph Smith had, by the commandment of the Lord, compiled the revelations for this purpose; and at a conference of the Church held November 1, 1831, the revelation known as the "Preface" was given to be published with the compilation. It was at first decided to publish 10,000 copies of the book, to be known as "The Book of Commandments"; but later this was reduced to 3,000 copies. At another conference, held November 12, 1831, the revelations as prepared were dedicated by prayer and thanksgiving. Elders Oliver Cowdery and John Whitmer were appointed to carry the revelations to Missouri for publication and the work was to be done by William W. Phelps & Company. Elder Phelps having been added to the committee with Elders Cowdery and Whitmer, these three were charged with the responsibility of seeing that the printing proceed and be completed at as early a date as possible (D. H. C. 1:270). By the summer of 1833 most of these revelations that had been given up to that time were printed, but before the work was completed the printing plant was destroyed by a mob composed of the enemies of the Church. A few copies of the printed forms were saved and were bound in the "Book of Commandments." 494 A few copies of these revelations thus printed have been preserved.
Notwithstanding this calamity, the Church was undaunted in the mission laid upon it to publish the latter-day revelations of God to mankind. The first edition of the Doctrine and Covenants was published in Kirtland in 1835. On the title page the statement is made that the contents were compiled by "Joseph Smith, Junior; Oliver Cowdery, Sidney Rigdon and Frederick G. Williams, Presiding Elders of the Church." The book was printed by Frederick G. Williams & Company, in Kirtland. On September 24, 1834, at a meeting of the High Council in Kirtland, Ohio, a committee, with Joseph Smith, the Prophet and President of the Church, at its head, was constituted to publish the revelations and other matter relating to the doctrines of the Church.
This committee reported the completion of its labors to a general assembly of the Church, at Kirtland, August 17, 1835. The congregation was seated in the order of solemn assembly —each quorum or distinctive body of the Priesthood being in its place—and the acceptance of the revelations contained in the book of Doctrine and Covenants was expressed by the separate vote of each quorum, and then by the united vote of the entire assembly. The testimony of the Twelve Apostles of the Church was formulated, signed, and presented to the assembly in the form following: TESTIMONY OF THE TWELVE APOSTLES TO THE TRUTH OF THE BOOK OF DOCTRINE AND COVENANTS The Testimony of the Witnesses to the Book of the Lord's Commandments, which commandments He gave to His Church through Joseph Smith, Jun., who was appointed by the voice of the Church for this purpose: We, therefore, feel willing to bear testimony to all the world of mankind, to every creature upon the face of all the earth, that the Lord has borne record to our souls, through the Holy Ghost shed forth upon us, that these commandments were given by inspiration of God, and are profitable for all men and are verily true. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1947 We give this testimony unto the world, the Lord being our helper; and it is through the grace of God the Father, and His Son, Jesus Christ, that we are permitted to have this privilege of bearing this testimony unto the world, in the which we rejoice exceedingly, praying the Lord always that the children of men may be profited thereby.. Thomas B. Marsh David W. Patten Brigham Young Heber C. Kimball Orson Hyde Wm. E. McLellin Parley P. Pratt Luke S. Johnson William Smith Orson Pratt John F. Boynton Lyman E, Johnson In successive editions of the Doctrine and Covenants, additional revelations or other matters of record have been added, as received, and as accepted by competent assemblies or conferences of the Church. — Certain lessons, entitled ''Lectures on Faith," which were bound in with the Doctrine and Covenants in some of its former issues, are not included in this edition.
Those lessons were prepared for use in the School of the Elders, conducted in Kirtland, Ohio, during the winter of 1834- 1835; but they were never presented to nor accepted by the Church as being otherwise than theological lectures or lessons ("Explanatory Introduction to the Doctrine and Covenants," page v). The Doctrine and Covenants has been translated into the following languages: Danish, Welsh, German, Swedish, Dutch, Hawaiian, and Maori (Essentials in Church History, page 684). At the present time (1947) many of these translations are being revised to keep pace LESSON DEPARTMENT with the modern language changes, and a complete translation is being made in Spanish and Portuguese (See "Church Section," The Deseret News, May 3, 1947, pp. 4, 12). Prophet Joseph Smith as a Revelator Section 135 of the Doctrine and Covenants relates the martyrdom of Joseph Smith the Prophet and his brother Hyrum Smith the Patriarch, at Carthage, Illinois, June 27, 1844. It speaks of the great work which the Prophet Joseph did for mankind, stating that: Joseph Smith, the Prophet and Seer of the Lord, has done more, save Jesus only, for the salvation of men in this world, than any other man that ever lived in it.
Among the Prophet's marvelous accomplishments is mentioned that he "has brought forth the revelations and commandments which compose this book of Doctrine and Covenants" (135:3). The study of the course "Literature of the Doctrine and Covenants," which will comprise the seven remaining Relief Society lessons in literature for 1947-48, will call forcibly to the attention of Relief Society sisters the incalculable service performed for Latter-day Saints by the Prophet Joseph Smith in being the worthy instrument in the hand of the Lord through whom the Lord in this day revealed his mind and will to mankind.
Among other expressions, the following ones are typical of those used by the Prophet Joseph Smith before copying revelations into his history of the Church: The following I applied for and obtained, at the request of... (D. H. C. 1:28); I 5 inquired of the Lord through the Urim and Thummim, and obtained the following... (Ibid., page 33); In this manner did the Lord continue to give us instructions from time to time, concerning the duties which now devolved upon us; and among many other things of the kind, we obtained of Him the following, by the spirit of prophecy and revelation... (Ibid., page 64); I inquired of the Lord and received the following important revelation... (Ibid., page 229). Elder Parley P.
Pratt has left an interesting account of the manner in which the Prophet Joseph dictated a revelation: Each sentence was uttered slowly and very distinctly, and with a pause between each, sufficiently long for it to be recorded by an ordinary writer in long hand.
This was the manner in which all his written revelations were dictated and written.
There was never any hesitation, reviewing, or reading back, in order to keep the run of the subject; neither did any of these communications undergo revisions, interlinings or corrections. As he dictated them so they stood, so far as I have witnessed; and I was present to witness the dictation of several communications of several pages each. The footnote adds: This statement of Elder Pratt's is true in a general way, and valuable as a description of the manner in which revelations were dictated by the Prophet; and needs modifying only to the extent of §saying that some of the early revelations first published in the "Book of Commandments," in 1833, were revised by the Prophet himself in the way of correcting errors made by the scribes and publishers; and some additional clauses were inserted to throw increased light upon the subjects treated in the revelations, and paragraphs added, to make the principles or instructions apply to officers not in the Church at the time some of the earlier revelations were given. The addition of verses 65, 66 and 67 in section of the Doctrine and Covenants, is an example (D. H. C. 1:173, footnote). 496
There were certain acquaintances of the Prophet who found fault with him as a revelator. At one time Oliver Cowdery wrote that he had discovered an error in one of the commandments. 'The Prophet relates: I immediately wrote to him in reply, in which I asked him by what authority he took upon him to command me to alter or erase, to add to or diminish from, a revelation or commandment from Almighty God (D. H. C. 1:105). At another time the Prophet tells how a certain man:... As the wisest man, in his own estimation, having more learning than sense, endeavored to write a commandment like unto one of the least of the Lord's, but failed; it was an awful responsibility to write in the name of the Lord. The Elders and all present that witnessed this vain attempt of a man to imitate the language of Jesus Christ, renewed their faith in the fulness of the Gospel, and in the truth of the commandments and revelations which the Lord had given to the Church through my instrumentality (D. H. C. 1:226). The importance which the Prophet Joseph Smith himself attached to the revelations he received from God. Is shown by the following statement he wrote in 1831:.. In consequence of the book of revelations, now to be printed, being the foundation of the Church in these last days, and a benefit to the world, showing RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1947 that the keys of the mysteries of the kingdom of our Savior are again entrusted to man; and the riches of eternity within the compass of those who are willing to live by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God—therefore the conference voted that they prize the revelations to be worth to the Church the riches of the whole earth, speaking temporally (D. H. C. 19235). Necessity for Studying the Doctrine and Covenants Throughout the literature course to follow, Relief Society members would do well to bear in mind the following words of the Lord so that each class member may seek earnestly and prayerfully to learn for herself the truthfulness of the Doctrine and Covenants while she deepens her appreciation of the beauty of the language in which the revelations are expressed: Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled. What I the Lord have spoken, I have spoken, and I excuse not myself; and though the heavens and the earth pass away, my word shall not pass away, but shall all be fulfilled, whether by mine own voice or by the voice of my servants, it is the same (D. & C. 1:37). Activities for Discussion Have the class members recall or recite sections or parts of sections in the Doctrine and Covenants with which they are especially familiar. > Work Meeting—Sewing (A Course for Optional Use by Wards and Branches at Work Meeting) The preview and the first optional lesson for use at the work meeting will appear in the August Magazine.