[Vol34 | July 1947 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Donation Additions to]
LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
495 
with  the  modern  language  changes, 
and  a  complete  translation  is  being 
made  in  Spanish  and  Portuguese 
(See  "Church  Section/'  The  Des- 
eret  News,  May  3, 1947,  pp.  4, 12). 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  as  a  Revelator 
Section  135  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  relates  the  martyrdom  of 
Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  and  his 
brother  Hyrum  Smith  the  Patriarch, 
at  Carthage,  Illinois,  June  27,  1844. 
It  speaks  of  the  great  work  which 
the  Prophet  Joseph  did  for  mankind, 
stating  that: 
Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet  and  Seer  of 
the  Lord,  has  done  more,  save  Jesus  only, 
for  the  salvation  of  men  in  this  world, 
than  any  other  man  that  ever  lived  in  it. 
Among  the  Prophet's  marvelous 
accomplishments  is  mentioned  that 
he  "has  brought  forth  the  revelations 
and  commandments  which  compose 
this  book  of  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants" (135:3). 
The  study  of  the  course  "Litera- 
ture of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants," which  will  comprise  the  sev- 
en remaining  Relief  Society  lessons 
in  literature  for  1947-48,  will  call 
forcibly  to  the  attention  of  Relief 
Society  sisters  the  incalculable  serv- 
ice performed  for  Latter-day  Saints 
by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  be- 
ing the  worthy  instrument  in  the 
hand  of  the  Lord  through  whom 
the  Lord  in  this  day  revealed  his 
mind  and  will  to  mankind. 
Among  other  expressions,  the  fol- 
lowing ones  are  typical  of  those  used 
by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  before 
copying  revelations  into  his  history 
of  the  Church : 
The  following  I  applied  for  and  obtained, 
at  the  request  of  .  .  .   (D.H.C.  1:28);  I 
inquired  of  the  Lord  through  the  Urim 
and  Thummim,  and  obtained  the  follow- 
ing ..  .  (Ibid.,  page  33);  In  this  manner 
did  the  Lord  continue  to  give  us  instruc- 
tions from  time  to  time,  concerning  the 
duties  which  now  devolved  upon  us;  and 
among  many  other  things  of  the  kind,  we 
obtained  of  Him  the  following,  by  the 
spirit  of  prophecy  and  revelation  .  .  . 
(Ibid.,  page  64);  I  inquired  of  the  Lord 
and  received  the  following  important  rev- 
elation .  .  .  (Ibid.,  page  229). 
Elder  Parley  P.  Pratt  has  left  an 
interesting  account  of  the  manner 
in  which  the  Prophet  Joseph  dictated 
a  revelation: 
Each  sentence  was  uttered  slowly  and 
very  distinctly,  and  with  a  pause  between 
each,  sufficiently  long  for  it  to  be  recorded 
by  an  ordinary  writer  in  long  hand.  This 
was  the  manner  in  which  all  his  written 
revelations  were  dictated  and  written. 
There  was  never  any  hesitation,  reviewing, 
or  reading  back,  in  order  to  keep  the  run 
of  the  subject;  neither  did  any  of  these 
communications  undergo  revisions,  inter- 
linings  or  corrections.  As  he  dictated 
them  so  they  stood,  so  far  as  I  have  wit- 
nessed; and  I  was  present  to  witness  the 
dictation  of  several  communications  of  sev- 
eral pages  each. 
The  footnote  adds: 
This  statement  of  Elder  Pratt's  is  true 
in  a  general  way,  and  valuable  as  a  descrip- 
tion of  the  manner  in  which  revelations 
were  dictated  by  the  Prophet;  and  needs 
modifying  only  to  the  extent  of  say- 
ing that  some  of  the  early  revelations  first 
published  in  the  "Book  of  Command- 
ments," in  1833,  were  revised  by  the 
Prophet  himself  in  the  way  of  correcting 
errors  made  by  the  scribes  and  publishers; 
and  some  additional  clauses  were  inserted 
to  throw  increased  light  upon  the  sub- 
jects treated  in  the  revelations,  and  para- 
graphs added,  to  make  the  principles  or