[Vol34 | July 1947 | Sequence: 24 | Category: Article | Title: Call It a Day (Conclusion)]

(Continued from page 449)

fully endless eons ago—that morning—and pulled the patchwork quilt over him. Then she began chafing the thin, gnarled hands.

Suddenly Gramp's blue eyelids fluttered open and he looked up into her troubled face. "Now, now, Judy," he said, his voice coming as if from a great distance, "don't look that-a-way. I'm all right. I'm fine."

Judith looked at him mutely, tears rolling unheeded down her cheeks.

"Know what?" Gramp resumed presently, his voice weak but his eyes bright and clear, "I think I'm goin' to get to go at last! I b'leeve they're comin' for me from 'T'other side!' Now, wait!" His weak fingers restrained Judith when she would have risen. "Don't go callin' the neighbors. They can help ye when I'm gone. Jes' stay here and wait with me till they come for me." He paused for breath, and Judith sat quietly holding his hand, his serenity and quiet happiness unconsciously affecting her own spirit.

"Sam'll be here," Gramp whispered presently, "mebbe you won't see him, Judy, but he'll see you and the little ones. I'll tell him you been a good daughter, Judy. I'll tell him—"

It was increasingly difficult for Judith to hear him and she bent closer for his feeble whisper, "I'll tell him I left ye in good hands. Young Bill'll take care of ye, Judy. Sam'll understand. Sam!"

Judith was sure the last word was not the beginning of a never-to-be finished sentence, but a greeting instead! It was an exclamation, and Gramp's voice had strengthened and risen in an inflection of pure joy.

Judith sat on for a moment, sensing, as Gramp must often have done, the mystery and nearness of his longed for "Other Side," almost with the feeling of one who has waved farewell to a joyous traveler, rather than looked upon death.

Then she gently disengaged her hand and pulled up the sheet over the peaceful old face. She glanced at the clock which had counted out so many fateful moments of her life. It was exactly four o'clock—twenty-four hours since she had slipped out so quietly in the dawn.

"What a day!" she murmured softly, smiling tenderly through her tears, "but what a wonderful day for Gramp!"
