[Vol34 | July 1947 | Sequence: 01 | Category: Article | Title: Where Chapter]
LESSON  DEPARTMENT 
485 
Lesson  6.  From  Judea   to   Galilee; 
and  Early  Incidents  in  Our  Lord's 
Public  Ministry 
Objective:  To  show  that  Jesus  gives 
ample  evidence  that  he  is  the  Christ 
to  all  who  honestly  seek  him;  and  that 
righteousness  is  the  greatest  force  in  the 
world. 
Lesson  7.  Honored  by  Strangers,  Ke- 
jected  by  His  Own;  and  Continua- 
tion of  Our  Lord's  Ministry  in  Gali- 
lee 
Objective:  To  prove  that  Jesus  is  no  re- 
spector  of  persons,  but  that  his  blessings 
are  given  to  all  who  have  faith  in  him, 
and  who  serve  him. 
Lesson  8.  Lord  of  the  Sabbath;  and 
The  Chosen  Twelve 
Objective:  To  show  that  the  Sabbath  is 
distinctly  sacred  to  the  people  who  ac- 
cept the  Lord  as  their  guide.  Also,  to 
show  that  Jesus  does  have  a  specific 
calling  in  the  Priesthood  to  which  he 
delegates  the  power  to  carry  on  his  work 
in  the  earth. 
We  urge  careful  consideration  of 
the  great  truths  concerning  the  Lord, 
which  have  been  revealed  in  this, 
our  day.  Probably,  Joseph  Smith's 
greatest  contribution  to  the  world 
was  a  correct  understanding  of  Jesus 
Christ.  It  is,  therefore,  necessary  to 
understand  and  to  be  able  to  tell 
others  of  these  great  truths. 
We  earnestly  urge  that  methods 
be  used  to  secure  class  participation. 
It  is  the  best  way  for  class  leaders  to 
ascertain  if  the  learners  are  really 
getting  a  clear  understanding  of  the 
lessons.  An  effective  class  leader 
will  not  content  herself  with  study- 
ing only  the  lesson  printed  in  the 
Magazine.  The  text  should  be  stu- 
died and  enrichment  material  gath- 
ered from  every  approved  source. 
This  course  affords  an  opportun- 
ity to  aid  others  in  securing  a  testi- 
mony of  Jesus  the  Christ.  The 
lessons  should  be  presented  with 
that  goal  always  in  mind. 
Textbook 
Talmage,  James  E.: Jesus   the   Christ, 
Deseret  Book  Company,  $2.50. 
Reference 
Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.:  Wist 
Ye  Not  That  I  Must  Be  About  My  Father's 
Business?  General  Board  of  Relief  Society 
28  Bishop's  Building,  Salt  Lake  City  r, 
Utah,  $1.50. 
Lesson  I— -"Preexistence  and  Foreordination  of  Christ" 
Elder  Don  B.  Colton 
(Reference:  Jesus  the  Christ,  by  Elder  James  E.  Talmage,  Chapter  2) 
For  Tuesday,  October  7,  1947 
Objective:  To  show  the  actuality  of  the  birth  of  the  Lord  Jesus;  and  that  he  was 
chosen  and  ordained  to  be  our  Redeemer  before  the  world  was  created. 
MEMBERS  of  the  Relief  Society 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  will,  no  doubt, 
be  thrilled  at  the  prospects  of  study- 
ing, in  detail,  the  life  of  our  divine 
Redeemer.  The  Church  does  have 
a    distinctive    message    concerning 
him.  Let  us  understand  that  message 
clearly. 
And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might 
know  thee  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus 
Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent  (John  17:3). 
That  Jesus  of  Nazareth  did  live 
upon  earth  is  a  well-attested  fact.

486 
However,  no  adequate  biography 
was  written  of  him.  Probably,  it  is 
better  that  no  one  attempted  such 
an  impossible  task.  No  one  ever 
lived  of  whom  more  has  been  writ- 
ten. No  one  else  has  influenced  the 
world  for  good  as  much  as  he. 
Though  a  God,  he  was  actually  born 
of  woman.  No  one  can  successfully 
disprove  the  story  of  his  birth. 
Through  nineteen  "wide  cen- 
turies," the  spirit  of  the  Master  has 
been  the  greatest  power  for  good  in 
the  world.  Those  who  believed  in 
him  have  been  the  real  pioneers. 
Missionaries,  carrying  the  Bible, 
have  been  first  to  seek  out  benighted 
peoples  in  every  land.  A  Christian 
woman,  Florence  Nightingale,  really 
started  the  great  movement  provid- 
ing hospitals  for  wounded  soldiers 
upon  the  battlefields.  A  man  who 
believed  in  Christ,  Horace  Mann, 
led  the  movement  which  resulted 
in,  at  least,  a  common-school  educa- 
tion for  all  the  children  in  the  Unit-
