[Vol34 | July 1947 | Sequence: 27 | Category: Lesson | Title: Visiting Teachers' Messages: Our Pioneer Heritage The Fruits of Pioneer Virtues Preview 488; Organization President Amy Brown Lyman]
WHEN  the  Mormon  pioneers 
entered  Salt  Lake  Valley, 
they  brought  with  them  a 
spiritual  belief  for  which  they  were 
willing  to  endure  exile.  But  they  also 
brought  with  them  the  seeds  of  cul- 
ture, a  way  of  life,  which  they  nur- 
tured throughout  years  of  uncer- 
tainty, poverty,  and  hardship. 
In  planning  the  Centennial  cele- 
bration of  the  Utah  pioneers,  mem- 
bers of  the  Centennial  Commission 
have  tried  to  keep  this  thought  con- 
stantly before  them.  That  is  why 
the  program  of  the  arts  division  has 
been  given  such  prominence;  that  is 
why  the  Utah  Symphony,  presenta- 
tions of  drama,  and  the  production 
of  "Blossomtime"  have  been  sent  on 
State-wide  tours,  and  the  great  music 
festival  of  the  California-Western 
Music  Educators  Conference  spon- 
"SHADOWS  OF  EVENING"  BY  ROCKWELL  KENT  (1921) 
From  the  Collection  of  Whitney  Museum  of  American  Art 
Page  455

456 
RELIEF  SOCIETY  MAGAZINE— JULY  1947 
sored. 
The  members  of  the  Centennial 
Commission  have  endorsed  a  plan 
which  they  hope  will  allow  more 
people  in  more  places,  even  the  most 
remote,  to  hear  more  music,  see 
more  plays,  and  attend  more  art 
shows  than  would  have  been  pos- 
sible if  there  had  been  no  Centen- 
nial celebration. 
But  rich  and  varied  as  the  artistic 
fare  has  been,  the  best  is  yet  to  come. 
As  a  climax  to  the  whole  Centennial 
celebration  program,  the  arts  divi- 
sion will  offer,  beginning  in  late  June 
and  ending  in  August,  the  following 
cultural  events: 
The  stirring  music  drama  "Prom- 
ised Valley"  will  be  produced,  begin- 
ning July  21,  in  the  new  Centennial 
open-air  theater  at  the  University  of 
Utah,  with  a  full  symphony  orches- 
tra and  a  company  of  125  actors, 
singers,  and  dancers  on  a  new  stage 
equipped  with  a  modern  stereophon- 
ic sound  system,  and  special  scenery 
and  lighting  effects.  The  Centennial 
Symphony  Orchestra  of  sixty-five 
musicians  will  provide  musical  ac- 
companiment for  the  chorus,  the 
dancers,  and  the  soloists.  Crawford 
Gates,  twenty-five-year-old  compos- 
er, whose  four  great-grandfathers 
were  all  Utah  pioneers,  has  written 
the  musical  score.  Dr.  C.  Lowell 
Lees,  head  of  the  department  of 
speech  and  drama  at  the  University 
of  Utah,  is  general  director. 
The  American  Federation  of  Arts 
exhibit,  "One  Hundred  Years  of 
American  Painting,"  a  collection  of 
125  paintings  from  the  Metropolitan 
'ON  THE  TOWPATH— A  HALT"  BY  THEODORE  ROBINSON  (1852-1896) 
From  the  Collection  of  Whitney  Museum  of  American  Art

THE  ARTS  SECTION  OF  THE  UTAH  CENTENNIAL  CELEBRATION  457 
and  Whitney  Art  museums,  New  Cornwall.  Two  of  these  evenings 
York  City,  will  be  presented  during  will  be  devoted  to  the  oratorios- 
July  as  part  of  the  Centennial  Ex-  Haydn's  "Creation"  and  Mendels- 
position  at  the  Utah  State  Fair  sohn's  "Elijah."  One  Sunday  even- 
grounds.  This  exhibit  undoubtedly  ing  will  be  "Opera  Night,"  and  the 
comprises  the  most  valuable  and  sig-  other  "Utah  Night."  Guest  artists 
nificant  collection  of  works  by  of  outstanding  talent  have  been  en- 
American  artists  ever  presented  in  gaged  for  this  series, 
the  Intermountain  Region.  Among  Dr.  Lorin  F.  Wheelwright,  pro- 
the  artists  presented  will  be:  James  duction  manager,  arts  division,  Utah 
A.  McNeill  Whistler,  Winslow  Ho-  Centennial  Commission,  said  re- 
mer,    Frederick    Remington,    John  cently: 
Singer    Sargeant,    Thomas    Eakins,  This  ambitious  program  should  supply  a 
George    Inness,    Albert    P.    Ryder,  stirring  close  for   Utah's  first  Centennial 
Rockwell  Kent,  Theodore  Robinson,  celebration.    It  should  testify  that  we  are 
and  manv  Others                             •  striving  to  be  worthy  of  our  past.  It  should 
A  series  of  five  Sunday  evening  demonstrate  to  the  world  that  the  present 
....        .         t_      i_     rn  i_  generation  or  Utahns  does  not  undervalue 
concerts  will  be  given  by  the  Taber-  the  priceless  heritage  bequeathed  to  us  by 
nacle  Choir,  directed  by  J.  Spencer  our  progenitors. 
LITTLE  PIONEERS 
Ethel  Van  Hook  Hopper 
What  did  the  little  children  do 
Along  the  weary  way? 
As  wagons  rolled  across  the  plains, 
They  could  not  run  and  play. 
They  watched  the  sky,  the  tall  wild  gras^ 
They  called  it  waves  at  sea; 
They  played  the  wagon  was  a  ship; 
The  wind  was  blowing  free. 
At  last,  the  queer  bark  anchored  fast; 
The  children  ran  about, 
So  glad  to  feed  the  tired  animals, 
To  build  the  fires  .  .  .  and  shout. 
When  quiet  night  came  down  at  last, 
They  sang  sweet  songs,  we  know, 
Cheering  the  ones  about  the  fire 
In  the  evenings  long  ago.

Pioneer  Gardenmaking 
Hazel  D.  MoyJe 
ONE  of  the  thrills  of  the  Cen- 
tennial celebration  comes 
when  we  travel  to  that  his- 
toric spot  where  the  pioneers  first 
gazed  out  over  the  Salt  Lake  Valley; 
where  their  beloved  leader  uttered 
those  famous  words,  'This  Is  the 
Place/'  now  marked  by  a  magnifi- 
cent monument  to  commemorate 
this  important  event. 
As  we  look  out  over  this  lovely 
panorama  that  now  greets  the  eye 
from  this  vantage  point— a  valley 
filled  with  beautiful  homes  shaded 
by  a  veritable  forest  of  rich  green— 
our  thoughts  naturally  turn  to  the 
scene  as  it  was  on  that  historic  day 
just  one  hundred  years  ago.  How 
did  it  appear  to  that  footsore  and 
weary  band  when  they  first  gazed 
out  over  the  new  promised  land? 
We  are  told  that  the  pioneers 
were  awed  and  thrilled  by  the  in- 
spiring scene,  with  its  towering 
mountains,  its  vast  sweep,  and  its 
glittering  lake.  Yet  historians  also 
record  that  the  women  of  the  party 
were  dismayed  at  the  very  immen- 
sity of  the  place,  at  its  boundless  si- 
lences and  wide  stretches  of  barren 
soil,  the  gray  unbroken  sage.  The 
silence  of  centuries  hung  over  all,  for 
the  few  trappers  and  explorers  who 
had  ventured  into  the  Valley  had  left 
no  trace  of  their  coming  or  going. 
In  speaking  of  those  first  days  in 
the  new  land  in  later  years,  Clara  D. 
Young,  one  of  the  original  pioneers, 
declared:  "I  don't  remember  a 
single  tree  that  could  be  called  by 
that  name."  Small  wonder  that  the 
courageous    hearts    of   those   brave 
Page  458 
women  quailed  at  the  thought  of 
making  a  home  in  this  vast  and  lone- 
ly place. 
But  soon  the  long  unbroken  si- 
lences were  disturbed  by  new  sounds; 
of  feverish  activity— the  plow  as  it 
turned  the  furrows  and  the  shovels1 
that  diverted  the  mountain  streams 
to  the  thirsty  soil.  Ere  long  the 
music  of  the  hammer,  the  axe,  and 
the  saw  resounded  through  the  Val- 
ley as  the  indefatigable  pioneers  la- 
bored to  provide  shelter  and  food. 
History  now  gives  those  first  few 
years  a  place  as  one  of  the  greatest 
of  human  struggles  against  adversity, 
for  from  it  emerged,  in  but  a  few 
short  seasons,  a  real  transformation. 
A  bustling  and  prosperous  new  com- 
munity arose  from  the  desert,  with 
wide  and  orderly  streets  shaded  by 
beautiful  trees.  Neat  and  charming 
homes  were  set  off  and  made  beau- 
tiful by  orchards  and  gardens.  Vis- 
itors and  travelers  were  astonished 
to  find  such  peaceful  and  ordered 
beauty  in  this  raw  new  country— so 
entirely  different  from  the  usual 
frontier  community. 
How  was  this  transformation 
achieved  so  quickly  in  this  far  and 
isolated  western  country? 
The  answer  lies  in  the  high  pur- 
poses of  the  pioneers.  They  were  not 
seeking  adventure  or  wealth,  but 
were  a  people  motivated  by  a  single 
dream,  by  a  deep  abiding  hunger  for 
peaceful  homes  and  the  right  to  wor- 
ship God  unmolested.  And  so  they 
worked  together  to  make  those 
dreams  a  reality.

PIONEER  GARDENMAKING 
459 
\17ITH  converts  from  all  walks  of 
life  constantly  arriving  from 
many  parts  of  Europe,  as  well  as 
from  all  sections  of  our  own  country, 
the  city  soon  reflected  the  finest  tra- 
ditions of  culture  in  the  new  homes 
as  they  were  built.  The  architecture 
of  these  early  pioneer  homes  has 
been  declared  classic  by  many  fam- 
ous modern  designers. 
The  plantings  about  those  old 
homes  were  also  in  the  traditional 
style,  due,  in  some  measure,  to  a 
number  of  the  early  pioneer  garden- 
ers who  had  been  trained  in  some 
of  the  great  garden  estates  of  Eng- 
land and  Germany.  Their  skill  was 
naturally   employed    in   beautifying 
the  new  community.  The  majority 
of  the  gardens  were  of  the  simple 
cottage  type,  made  up  of  plants 
grown  from  slips  and  starts  of  old, 
well-loved  plants  brought  from 
former  homes. 
Incredible  as  it  might  seem  to  the 
pampered  gardener  of  today,  many 
of  these  first  plants  and  slips  crossed 
the  plains  in  the  covered  wagons 
along  with  all  the  worldly  possessions 
of  many  pioneer  flower  lovers. 
Our  amazing  pioneer  grandmothers 
could  face  all  the  dangers  and  priva- 
tions of  building  a  new  civilization 
in  a  wilderness,  yet  they  cherished 
and  knew  the  value  of  a  flower. 
Many   of  them  lovingly  cared  for 
*~  / 
Photograph,  Courtesy  Hazel  D.  Moyle 
MRS.  HANNAH  M.  FOWLKS,  EARLY  PIONEER  OF  THE  COTTONWOOD 
DISTRICT  IN  SALT  LAKE  COUNTY,  SHOWN  IN  HER  GARDEN 
AT  THE  AGE  OF  EIGHTY  YEARS