[Vol34 | July 1947 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The Arts Section of the Martin]
The members of the Centennial Commission have endorsed a plan which they hope will allow more people in more places, even the most remote, to hear more music, see more plays, and attend more art shows than would have been possible if there had been no Centennial celebration. But rich and varied as the artistic fare has been, the best is yet to come. As a climax to the whole Centennial celebration program, the arts division will offer, beginning in late June and ending in August, the following cultural events: The stirring music drama "Promised Valley" will be produced, beginning July 21, in the new Centennial open-air theater at the University of RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1947
Utah, with a full symphony orchestra and a company of 125 actors, singers, and dancers on a new stage equipped with a modern stereophonic sound system, and special scenery and lighting effects. The Centennial Symphony Orchestra of sixty-five musicians will provide musical accompaniment for the chorus, the dancers, and the soloists. Crawford Gates, twenty-five-year-old composer, whose four great-grandfathers were all Utah pioneers, has written the musical score. Dr. C. Lowell Lees, head of the department of speech and drama at the University of Utah, is general director. The American Federation of Arts exhibit, "One Hundred Years of American Painting," a collection of 125 paintings from the Metropolitan "ON THE TOWPATH—A HALT" BY THEODORE ROBINSON (1852-1896) From the Collection of Whitney Museum of American Art THE ARTS SECTION OF THE UTAH CENTENNIAL CELEBRATION and Whitney Art museums, New York City, will be presented during July as part of the Centennial Exposition at the Utah State Fair grounds. His exhibit undoubtedly comprises the most valuable and significant collection of works by American artists ever presented in the Intermountain Region. Among the artists presented will be: James A. McNeill Whistler, Winslow Homer, Frederick Remington, John Singer Sargeant, Thomas Eakins, George Inness, Albert P. Ryder, Rockwell Kent, Theodore Robinson, and many others. A series of five Sunday evening concerts will be given by the Tabernacle Choir, directed by J. Spencer 457
Cornwall. Two of these evenings will be devoted to the oratorios— Haydn's "Creation" and Mendelssohn's "Elijah." One Sunday evening will be "Opera Night," and the other "Utah Night."
Guest artists of outstanding talent have been engaged for this series. Dr. Lorin F. Wheelwright, production manager, arts division, Utah Centennial Commission, said _recently: This ambitious program should supply a stirring close for Utah's first Centennial celebration. It should testify that we are striving to be worthy of our past. It should demonstrate to the world that the present generation of Utahns does not undervalue the priceless heritage bequeathed to us by our progenitors.
