[Vol34 | July 1947 | Sequence: 18 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Lyman]

—Visiting Teachers' Messages—Our Pioneer Heritage The Fruits of Pioneer Virtues President Amy Brown Lyman Preview of Lessons for 1947-48 WHEREFORE by their fruits ye shall know them" (Matt. 7:20). The subject matter for the visiting teachers' department for the year 1947-48 will again be presented LESSON DEPARTMENT – under the general title "Our Pioneer Heritage."
Last year the lessons featured pioneer virtues.
This year the objective will be to call attention to and emphasize some of the accomplishments of the pioneers which came as a result of their virtues and their practices, the better to encourage them.
The discussions last year recalled many incidents, family experiences, and stories which greatly enriched the messages as they were considered in both the classroom and in the home. Especially interesting and dramatic were incidents related by some of the elderly women who remembered stories told to them firsthand by the pioneers of the plains, and also incidents connected with their own personal experiences in helping to pioneer remote settlements here in the West. Interest was stimulated by some class leaders, who made it a point to announce the subject for the next lesson a month ahead of time and to encourage the members to read the lesson carefully, talk it over in the home, and come prepared to take part in the class discussion. As a result, many faith promoting stories and interesting experiences have been related. Most interesting also were excerpts from old diaries, which were brought to class and read by descendants of early pioneers. These diaries, which bring to life thrilling human interest stories, are valuable and should be carefully preserved. Practically every visiting teacher and every individual visited has been able to contribute to the discussions.
Friendly visiting by Relief Society teachers is one of the oldest institutions in the Society. The organization was only one year old when six-
teen of its members were appointed to visit the four districts in Nauvoo. Today there are 51,678 visiting teachers in the organization, and 18,155 districts. Last year's report (1946) showed that the teachers made 1,237,960 visits to the homes. If all of the 51,678 visiting teachers would, in a given year, familiarize themselves with the messages and make it a practice to discuss them in the 177,770 homes on their visits, what a power they could be in creating desirable sentiment and influencing people for good.
It is hoped that this timely subject "Our Pioneer Heritage" has been and will be so thoroughly discussed that it will make an important contribution to the spirit of Utah's great Centennial, the prime purpose of which is to call to mind and to emphasize the deeds and accomplishments of the pioneers of Utah, and perpetuate their memories by music, song, and pageant, and by dedicating to the pioneers that mighty monument "This Is the Place."
"By their fruits ye shall know them." Yes, by the fruits of our noble pioneers we shall ever know and remember them.
Titles for the messages for the eight months follow:
Lesson 1. Organization Objective: To show the marvelous result of the God-inspired plan used by our pioneers in crossing the plains.
Lesson 2. Colonization Objective: To call attention to the outstanding ability of the pioneers as colonizers and empire builders.
Lesson 3. Religious Activities Objective: That we may review the religious practices of the pioneers and emulate their activities.
490
Lesson 4. Social Activities Objective: To recall the genuine and friendly social activities of the pioneers in order to better evaluate those of the present. Lesson 5. Cultural Activities Objective: To stimulate a deeper appreciation of the different cultural activities of the pioneers in order to better evaluate in a more understanding way similar activities today. Lesson 6. Community Activities Objective: To show that many present progressive community activities originated and were stimulated by the early pioneers. Lesson 7. Building Activities Objective: To recognize the high standards in the building activities of the pioneers which act as a stimulus for us today. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1947
Lesson 8. Beautification Objective: To become acquainted with pioneer plans of beautification of homes, churches, and communities, in order to appreciate more fully the realization of those plans a century later, General References For the Course For Enrichment Material A Story to Tell, published by the Primary Association and the Deseret Sunday School Union. AsHTON, WENDELL J.: Their's Is the Kingdom. Evans, JoHN Henry: One Hundred Years of Mormonism. Evans, JoHN HENRY: Utah. SMITH, JOSEPH FIELDING: in Church History. Whitney', Orson F.: Popular History of Utah. Young, Levi Edgar: Founding of Utah. The Story of Essentials Lesson |—Organization President Amy Brown Lyman For Tuesday, October 7, 1947
Objective: To show the marvelous result of the God-inspired plan used by our pioneers in crossing the plains. NE of the distinguishing characteristics of Latter-day Saints is their understanding and appreciation of the efficacy of organized efforts and the importance of co-operation between individuals and _between groups.
This understanding and knowledge is a heritage from the Church itself, the organization of which was divinely inspired. The perfect organization and operation of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latterday Saints is ample evidence of its divine origin. The government of the Church is vested in the First Presidency and the Council of the Twelve, assisted by other General Authorities, by general officers of various departments, and boards of auxiliary organizations. It is divided into stakes and missions and subdivided into wards and branches. The organization and work is thus built and set up on order, authority, love-inspired obedience, and co-operation, and operates with precision and efficiency. In making plans and preparations for crossing the plains, it was only natural that one of the first considerations should be the careful and proper organization of the companies, and it was largely due to the efforts in this direction that the LESSON DEPARTMENT companies were so successful. (See D. & C. 136). In his biography, pioneer Elijah Mayhew, who crossed the plains from Winter Quarters in 1853 and was one of the clerks of his company, shows how the company was carefully organized, and gives some interesting details regarding its organization and operation. He reports that the company consisted of 232 souls, seventy wagons, 125 horses, 360 head of cattle, and 126 sheep. Captains D. R.
Miller and John Cooley were in command. The company was divided into groups of fifty, which were subdivided into groups of ten.
Each group of fifty had a captain, a sergeant of guard, a chaplain, and a clerk.
Following are the rules and regulations as recorded by him: 1—Camp will be called by the sound of a trumpet for prayer morning and evening. 2—Card playing will not be allowed. 3—Profane language will not be allowed. 4—Dogs must be tied up at night. 5—No noise nor confusion of any kind will be allowed after 8 p. M. 6—The horn will blow for arising at 4:30 a. M. 7—Assembly for prayers at 5:30 am. 8—Each man will assist in driving the cattle. O—The 491 horn will blow as notice to bring in the cattle. 10—The corral, formed by placing wagons side by side, will not be broken nor any wagon move from the yard in the morning until all the cattle are yoked. 11—The rate of travel for oxen, 3 miles per hour. The names of all individuals, he explains, were enrolled; and, for the company, he kept a daily diary. If additional individuals joined the company along the route, their names and the date of their arrival were kept. All accidents and troubles were recorded; for example, the accident of Lucy Ann Miller, in which her leg was broken but successfully set.
Upon the arrival of the company in Salt Lake City, resolutions of respect and appreciation were drafted and presented to Captains Miller and Cooley for their kindness, efficient leader ship, wise counsel, and tender care.
Suggestions for Discussion The class might be encouraged to add examples of how the Church, through its perfect organization, has been able, on short notice, to collect needed information, facts, and statistics, and to carry out necessary programs.