[Vol34 | July 1947 | Sequence: 17 | Category: Article | Title: Theology The Life and Colton]

483 LESSON Theology—The Life and Ministry of the Savior Elder Don B. Colton Preview of Lessons for 1947-48 THEOLOGY lessons for the next four years will be based upon that excellent book by the late Elder James E. Talmage, entitled Jesus the Christ. The book should be studied in connection with each lesson.
This preview will introduce the first eight lessons.
Each year a preview will be written covering the lessons to be studied. The main objective of the course is to give the principal events in the Savior's life in such a way as to awaken faith in the souls of all those who study. We believe in the statement of the Savior: And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent (John 17:3). To fully know him, it is necessary to study his life. 'To understand that life, we must know something of the antemortal existence, something of the events and purposes of his earth life, and something of our relationship to him in the life to come. We believe this can be accomplished by carefully following the plan of life mapped out for us by our Redeemer. The titles of the lessons for the year (the names of the first sixteen chapters of Jesus the Christ) are as follows: Page 484
Lesson 1. Preexistence and Foreordination of the Christ Objective: To show the actuality of the birth of the Lord Jesus; and that he was chosen and ordained to be our Redeemer before the world was created. Lesson 2. The Need of a Redeemer; and The Antemortal Godship of Christ Objective: To show that under the gospel plan a Redeemer was absolutely necessary; and that Jesus, our Lord, had attained godship in an antemortal existence. Lesson 3. Earthly Advent of the Christ Predicted; and The Meridian of Time Objective: To demonstrate that the great events of the Savior's life and of his plan of salvation had been revealed aforetime; and to give an explanation of the condition of the Jews during the meridian of time. Lesson 4. Gabriel's Annunciation of John and Jesus; and The Babe of Bethlehem Objective: To show that the coming of John the Baptist and Jesus Christ was announced by an angel sent from God; and that their births fulfilled great promises by angels and prophets. Lesson 5. The Boy of Nazareth; and In the Wilderness of Judea Objective: To prove that Jesus early understood his divine calling, and spent a period of careful preparation for his great ministry.
LESSON DEPARTMENT Lesson 6. From Judea to Galilee; and Early Incidents in Our Lord's Public Ministry Objective: To show that Jesus gives ample evidence that he is the Christ to all who honestly seek him; and that righteousness is the greatest force in the world. Lesson 7. Honored by Strangers, Rejected by His Own; and Continuation of Our Lord's Ministry in GalliIg Objective: To prove that Jesus is no respector of persons, but that his blessings are given to all who have faith in him, and who serve him. Lesson 8. Lord of the Sabbath; and The Chosen Twelve. Objective: To show that the Sabbath is distinctly sacred to the people who accept the Lord as their guide. Also, to show that Jesus does have a specific calling in the Priesthood to which he delegates the power to carry on his work in the earth. We urge careful consideration of the great truths concerning the Lord, which have been revealed in this, our day. Probably, Joseph Smith's greatest contribution to the world was a correct understanding of Jesus 485
Christ. It is, therefore, necessary to understand and to be able to tell others of these great truths. We earnestly urge that methods be used to secure class participation. It is the best way for class leaders to ascertain if the learners are really getting a clear understanding of the lessons. An effective class leader will not content herself with studying only the lesson printed in the Magazine. The text should be studied and enrichment material gathered from every approved source. This course affords an opportunity to aid others in securing a testimony of Jesus the Christ. The lessons should be presented with that goal always in mind. Textbook TALMAGE, JAMES E.: Jesus the Christ, Deseret Book Company, $2.50. Reference Clark, PRESIDENT J. REUBEN, JR.: Wist Ye Not That I Must Be About My Father's Business? General Board of Relief Society 28
Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City r, Utah, $1.50. Lesson I—"Preexistence and Foreordination of Christ" Elder Don B. Colton (Reference: Jesus the Christ, by Elder James E. Talmage, Chapter 2) For Tuesday, October 7, 1947
Objective: To show the actuality of the birth of the Lord Jesus; and that he was chosen and ordained to be our Redeemer before the world was created. MEMBERS of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints will, no doubt, be thrilled at the prospects of studying, in detail, the life of our divine Redeemer. The Church does have a distinctive message concerning him. Let us understand that message clearly. And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent (John 17:3). That Jesus of Nazareth did live upon earth is a well-attested fact. 
  1947
However, no adequate biography was written of him. Probably, it is better that no one attempted such an impossible task. No one ever lived of whom more has been written. No one else has influenced the world for good as much as he. Though a God, he was actually born of woman. No one can successfully disprove the story of his birth.
Through nineteen "sixte centuries," the spirit of the Master has been the greatest power for good in the world. Those who believed in him have been the real pioneers. Missionaries, carrying the Bible, have been first to seek out benighted peoples in every land. A Christian woman, Florence Nightingale, really started the great movement providing hospitals for wounded soldiers upon the battlefields. A man who believed in Christ, Horace Mann, led the movement which resulted in, at least, a common-school education for all the children in the United States. It is well within the mark to say that nearly all great efforts during the last two thousand years to bring happiness and progress to the human family have been made by men and women actuated by the influence and power of our Savior. (Read statement by F. A. Francis in President Grant's book, Treasures I Would Share.)
One outstanding and distinctive feature of the Latter-day Saint Church is its positive affirmation of a correct understanding of Jesus Christ. As we proceed with this course, it will be pointed out that our message is unique and distinctive in many respects. This is said in humility but with boldness. In the spirit of Paul's statement to the Colossians (Col. 1:12-19), we give
"thanks unto the Father which hath made us meet [suitable or worthy] to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light" (Holy Ghost).
Preexistence and Foreordination
It is usual to commence biographies or even a study of the life of an individual with a consideration of the earthly birth. We are not studying now the life of an ordinary person. We are to study the Savior in the light of Isaiah's estimate of him:
For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and the government shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, The Mighty God, The Everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace (Isaiah 9:6).
The Holy Scriptures are replete with passages affirming that Jesus the Christ or Jehovah existed with the Father in a preexistent state.
All things were made by him; and without him was not anything made that was made (John 1:3).
For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers: all things were created by him and for him:
And he is before all things, and by him all things consist.
And he is the head of the body, the church: who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead; that in all things he might have the preeminence.
For it pleased the Father that in him [Christ] should all fulness dwell (Col. 1:16-19).
(See also Heb. 1:1-3; and Progress of Man, by Joseph Fielding Smith, page 511.)
To the Latter-day Saints, the word of God is scripture whether it was given anciently or to a modern prophet. From Isaiah we learn that in the beginning another son of God tried to exalt himself.
LESSON DEPARTMENT This other son, Lucifer, offered a plan under which all mankind would be re deemed, provided that he, not God, would be given the honor. The rejection of Lucifer's plan caused what is spoken of as the "war in heaven" (Rev. 12:79).
This plan would have taken away our free agency. The plan presented by the Lord, Jesus, gave us our free agency and gave the glory to out Father—''thy will be done and the glory be thine forever." A great majority of our Father's children in that antemortal existence accepted the plan of Jesus, even though it might entail temptation to sin, suffering of pain, and even of wandering away from the "path of life." (See Latter-day Saint Hymns, No. 37—"Know This That Every Soul Is Free," etc. See, also, Pearl of Great Price, Moses 4:1-4). The principle of free agency is fundamental in the gospel of Christ. "Freedom and reason make us men."
Many men have fought and died rather than give up their free agency and many have been willing to make any sacrifice for freedom. The difference between the Saviors plan and the one offered by Lucifer ls very great. We, as spirit children, were happy when Jehovah's plan was accepted. We voted for it. We undoubtedly joined in the glad chorus when, "Ail the sons of God shouted for joy" (Job 38:7). The important point ls, Jesus was with the Father "in the beginning."
Under the direction of the Father, he made the world. He is our Redeemer and Savior. "He was ordained of the Father to be the Savior of mankind." Of course, no date is given as to the exact time when this occurred. 'That is not necessary. 487 We know only that it was "in the beginning." We do know that Jesus had been exalted to be a God while he was yet a "personage of spirit." It is very enlightening to read Ether, 3d chapter in the Book of Mormon.
More than two thousand years before his advent upon earth, Jesus the Lord appeared to a great prophet on a lonely mountain side.
Even that great prophet, the brother of Jared, seems not to have fully grasped the exact form in which Jesus lived before coming to earth.
Because of his great faith, the veil was taken from off the eyes of the brother of Jared, and he saw the finger of the Lord, and it was the finger of a man. "And the Lord said unto him: Because of thy faith thou hast seen that I shall take upon me flesh and blood." The Lord showed himself to this man of "exceeding great faith."
Jesus was a reality before he was born of woman. He lived and was a glorified "personage of spirit" —a God. In the day in which we live the same glorious truth was reaffirmed (D. & C. 76:13-14)- John, Paul, and other New Testament writers affirm repeatedly that Jesus lived in a preexistent state. The Savior, however, ls Our best witness. "For I came down from heaven not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me" (John 6:38). Again, these words: "What and if ye shall see the Son of man ascend up where he was before?" (John 6:62). It might be well to read the entire sixth chapter of John. The writer of this lesson earnestly urges all members to read carefully from the text or from an original 488 source the third footnote following chapter two of Jesus the Christ.
There can come to the human mind no more thrilling thought than that Jesus our Redeemer lives.
Because he lives, we will live forever. He is our advocate with the Father. He was God in a world as real as this one before he came to this earth. His place in the great plan of salvation has been clearly revealed. How wonderful! Our Father in heaven, the Father of our spirits, exalted his beloved and worthy Son, Jesus the Christ, to become the creator of the world on which we, his spirit children, might have the glorious privilege of receiving a body and having the experience of earth life. Thereafter, we were "translated into the kingdom" of that dear Son (Col. 1:13). He is the King Immanuel— our exemplar, prototype, guide. He marked the path and led the way, And every point defines To light and life and endless day, Where God's full presence shines.
Questions and Suggestions for Discussion 1.
Aside from the Bible, what evidence is there that Jesus our Savior is divine? RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1947 2. How would you prove from the Bible that Jesus lived in a preexistent state and that his work as a creator was done before he came to the earth?
Cite passages of scripture. 3. In what way is the salvation of mankind dependent upon the work of our Redeemer? Note: The following quotation will be of interest to Relief Society members: When residing in Kirtland, Elder Reynolds Cahoon had a son born to him, One day when President Joseph Smith was passing his door, he called the Prophet in and asked him to bless and name the baby.
Joseph did so and gave the boy the name of Mahonri Moriancumer.
When he had finished the blessing he laid the child on the bed and turning to Elder Cahoon he said, "The name I have given your son is the name of the brother of Jared; the Lord has just shown (or revealed) the name." Elder William Cahoon, who was standing near, heard the Prophet make this statement to his father; and this was the first time the name of the brother of Jared was known in the Church in this dispensation. (The Juvenile Instructor, Vol. 27, May 1892, page 282). Reference Talmage, James E.: Jesus the Christ, chapter 2.