[Vol34 | July 1947 | Sequence: 21 | Category: Article | Title: Social Science Jacobs]

LESSON DEPARTMENT 497
Social Science- Essentials in Home Training Elder Joseph Jacobs Preview of Lessons for 1947-48 HE course of study for the social science department for the coming season (1947-48) is titled "Essentials in Home Training," and is a continuation of last year's course "The Family in the Gospel Plan." Last year's course dealt with organization of the family, its practical workings, the responsibilities of each member of the family, and some phases of training which should be incorporated into children's lives. This year we take up a study of fundamental qualities of character which are basic to righteous living and consider how to implant them in members of the family. These lessons have been chosen with the thought in mind that the family is the most important unit that exists, and that the foundation for a righteous life must be laid in the home. The home is directly responsible for the ideals and standards of conduct developed by the individual. ' The important part that the example of parents plays in instilling these qualities in children is stressed. We refer class leaders to the treatment of some of these subjects as discussed by Dr. Harold T. Christensen in the social science lessons for the seasons 1944-45 and 1945-46. While the viewpoint on these subjects is different, much help may be derived from a study of his lessons in relation to the various subjects. Particular emphasis in this year's course is placed on giving practical help in applying these qualities to child training. Since the possession of these attributes is essential to a living of the gospel, repeated discussion will lead to better living. We are making a slight change in the arrangement of questions for these lessons. Instead of putting them at the end of each lesson, we are insertings them at appropriate places throughout, where discussion will be profitable. We realize, of course, that most teachers use this procedure already, but for the new or inexperienced teacher it may be helpful. When the lesson is given in its entirety with questions and discussion left until last, too often the time may be short or class members may have forgotten what they had wished to contribute. Teachers should take care to keep the discussion within a proper allotment of time for each topic. Again we say, the success of these lessons depends largely on the contribution of class members and the stimulation given for personal application. The experiences of mothers whose children are already reared is invaluable to younger ones whose children are still small, and whose methods of training may be at times experimental. The titles and objectives of the lessons for this year follow: Lesson 1. Obedience Objective: To show that obedience is the way to happiness, and to discuss methods of teaching obedience in the home. 498
Lesson 2. Honesty Objective: To show that honesty is fundamental to an upright character, and that teaching of this principle and a consistent example set by daily living must be given children in the home. Lesson 3. Chastity Objective: To show the necessity of living a chaste life, and to give suggestions for proper training in the home which will fortify members of the family to lead such a life. Lesson 4. Observance of the Sabbath Day Objective: To show that the command regarding Sabbath day observance is just as binding on us now as it has ever been, and that through training and the formation of proper habits in the home RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1947 the Sabbath will be spent worshipfully and the attendant blessings received. Lesson 5. Refinement Objective: To show that refinement enriches one's own life as well as the lives of one's associates, that it embodies all that is gentle, considerate, and uplifting. Lesson 6. Tolerance Objective: To show that the teachings of the Lord breathe the spirit of tolerance, and that tolerance is not acceptance. Lesson 7. Reverence Objective: To show that reverence is inborn, that it has been observed from the beginning of time, and that it needs greater emphasis in our lives today. Lesson!|—Obedience Elder Joseph Jacobs For Tuesday, October 28, 1947
Objective: To show that obedience is the way to happiness, and to discuss methods of teaching obedience in the home. How Important Is the Principle of Obedience? BEDIENCE is one of the great principles of life, for through it we gain salvation and exaltation. It is an eternal principle—one which will never change nor become obsolete. In the universe surrounding us we see the operation of obedience to law in every detail—in the invariable course of the sun, the changing of the seasons, the migration of birds, the growth of seeds. Obedience also operates in all human activity. Whether it be in the field of science, business, or agriculture, certain laws must be adhered to if success is to result. Do you wish to raise a flower garden? Then you must follow the laws of nature which outline the proper cultivation of plants. Do you wish to become a nurse? Then you must obey the law which says you are to pursue its study until you are eligible for graduation. Governmental affairs, as well, are based upon obedience to law. The laws themselves are mere words in the statute books, having no meaning whatever, unless they are put into action by men. "ug. Do you wish to gain salvation? Then you must render obedience to the requirements prescribed by our Heavenly Father which will lead you there. The battle of life is essentially a battle between obedience or disobedience to eternal law; between good and evil; between right and wrong (JOHN A.: Evidences and Reconciliations, page 267).
LESSON DEPARTMENT What Is the Price of Transgression?
Transgression of the law is primarily or indirectly the cause of all suffering (JAMES E. Talmage: The Vitality of Mormonism, page 388). We read in Hebrews 5:8: "Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered," showing that through our Savior's suffering he learned obedience. The important point for us to remember is that digressing from the course of obedience is like getting off on a detour and, eventually, having to work our way back to the main highway in order to continue onward. The sooner we learn to obey righteous laws, the easier it will be for us to obtain the prize we desire.
Disobedience sooner or later brings suffering. Does Obedience Curtail One's Liberty? It is an erroneous idea which suggests that obedience takes away one's liberty. We read: Here is a brother who says, "I do not want to be dictated; I want to preserve my freedom; I do not want to be a slave" What an idea! It is from the enemy, and because a person has not the Spirit of the Lord to see how things are.
There is not a man of us but what is willing to acknowledge at once that God demands strict obedience to his requirements. But in rendering that strict obedience, are we made slaves? No, it is the only way on the face of the earth for you and me to become free, and we shall become slaves to our own passions, and of the wicked one,.. If we take any other course.... Now to say that I do not enjoy the volition of my own will just as much when I pray as I would to swear, is a false principle.... (Discourses of Brigham Young, pp. 347- 348; 1941 edition, page 225). "Obedience to righteous law is the price of liberty. In such obedience 499 lies happiness," (James E. TalMAGE: The Vitality of Mormonism, page 338). "By his own acts man may win blessings or bring condemnation upon himself' (Joun A. Widstoe: Evidences and Reconciliations, page 267)...» It is a regrettable fact that people, generally, will obey laws when the penalties for disobedience are immediate or apparent, but will postpone obeying or entirely disregard those laws whose penalties are not so immediate nor apparent.
They are slow to learn that disobedience to these laws is as certain to bring its result as disobedience to any other law.
People accept the fact, for example, that adding anti-freeze to water reduces the freezing point, and that anti-freeze must be added to prevent damage to automobile radiators during cold weather.
They obey, without question, the physical law, by having a vaccination which renders the body immune to smallpox, because they have heard of the effects of that terrible disease. But they disregard or put off the law of tithing or the law of baptism or temple work, because no immediate penalty is apparent. Is There a Lack of Control in the Home Today? The home is the strategic place in which to instil sterling qualities of character. There, the lasting foundation is laid and habits of right living cultivated. There, also, fathers and mothers train themselves to be exemplary before their children: If life could be lived with no laws, we could do away with obedience in the home.... But laws must be obeyed so that life for all will be happier and better. When 500 we dispense with control in the home we have at once handicapped a child for his later contacts with a life which is full of laws. He will learn with more sorrow and difficulty when he is grown. The child who has learned obedience to reasonable laws will be best 'equipped to establish a home of his own.....
Marriage and home life require forbearance, mutual respect and obedience to certain laws.
Some sort of control in the training of young people must prepare them for this.
Ideas of control have undergone a vast change in the last seventy years. The father in the pioneer family might be said to have been next to God. His word was law in the family and he did not hesitate to enforce obedience by corporal punishment. In the old days discipline was often misused... But we now have the ludicrous example of parents who never say "No" to their children (American Association of School Administrators: Education for Family Life, pp. 66, 67). Edgar James Swift, in his book The Psychology of Childhood, says, on page 284: The defense mechanism of adults is working overtime today.
They try to hide.
Their own incompetence by excuses. "Children are not the same as when we were young," they say. As a matter of fact, however, human nature does not change so quickly. The difference today is in the greater opportunity for getting into trouble and in the perplexity of parents.
Parents themselves have more demands upon their time.... The call of the automobile and of the various entertainments is as insistent for parents as for the children. Consequently, for all except the more thoughtful, there is less time to plan for the training and development of children in the home. How May We as Parents Best Teach Obedience in the Home? First, by example.
Obedience is the very first principle a child should learn and it is taught most effectively by the example of the parents. It has been said, "Example is the greatest character builder." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1947 No parent should expect a child to obey any principle unless he himself complies. [Some] children expect to obey until they find that they do not have to do so.
They are always trying out their parents to see how far they can go, and if given a little leeway, they invariably accept it and try to push on a little farther....
Children are a good deal like the lower animals.
They expect at the beginning to recognize authority but when they find that the authority does not restrain they use their freedom to the limit. A horse, for example, when once allowed to run away is never wholly safe (EDGAR JAMES Swirt: The Psychology of Childhood, page 285). As Latter-day Saints we believe in obedience to the laws of the land. We read in the 134th section of the Doctrine and Covenants: We believe that all men are bound to sustain and uphold the respective governments in which they reside... And that to the laws all men owe respect and deference, as without them peace and harmony would be supplanted by anarchy and terror (D. & C., 134-5, 6). Our 12th Article of Faith states: We believe in being subject to kings, presidents, rulers, and magistrates, in obeying, honoring, and sustaining the law. The surest way to engender disrespect for law among the young is for the grownups to wink at minor infractions of the law or to break a law and justify themselves blandly with the statement that it is either an unjust or unnecessary law. But if the law is scrupulously obeyed and respected in the home, those same ideals will reflect in the lives of the children.
Name an orderly society, name an orderly government, name an orderly home, LESSON DEPARTMENT and there you will find obedience to correct principles reigning supreme. Second, we may teach obedience in the home by wise methods of discipline. Up to about six years of age discipline to a large extent should be training in habits of obedience (Edgar JAMES Swirt: The Psychology of Childhood, page 287). But a child should not be given unnecessary commands. If a parent is everlastingly saying, "Don't do this and don't do that," the child is apt to pay very little attention. A request or command should not be retracted nor forgotten, but should be followed to completion. 'The child must know that excuses and dillydallying will get him nowhere.
After a child passes the sixth year his reasoning powers develop more rapidly, and when he begins asking why he must do certain things, he should be given as good a reason as he is capable of understanding. Do not say, "Do this because I say so," but rather, "Do this because it is right," then explain wherein it is right.
Children instinctively like and want to obey, but they rebel at being forced to do things. If they were forced even to play ball the game would be as loathsome as any other imposed task. So it is a great principle to make as much fun out of work as possible. "Let's pretend," is a good slogan. A boy who plays that the lawn mower is a tractor and he is cultivating his field of sugar beets, is not only mowing the lawn, he is making fun out of it as well.
While this is a fine thing, a child must also realize that work, hard work, is a necessary part of life and 501 that satisfaction may be gained by doing work well. It has always been easier to forbid children to do undesirable things and then to punish them if they disobey than to create conditions which shall preserve discipline without punishment (Edgar JAMEs Swirt: The Phychology of Childhood, page 285). Angelo Patri once said, "Make it easy for children to obey."
There are simple procedures which will help to prevent disobedience and make for harmony in the home. For instance, instead of letting John and Tommy quarrel over the use of the bicycle, bring out the clock and allow each child an equal period of time in which to ride. If candy or any other goody is to be apportioned, make a standing rule that one child may divide the treat and the other take his choice of the two divisions.
This arrangement is foolproof and any child will recognize it as fair. To go out and tell children that in fifteen minutes or at the end of the present game they are to come in to dinner or go on an errand, is far better than to expect them to immediately break away from an intriguing game of play.
When you find a child with something he must not play with, either because it is fragile or dangerous, substitute another toy before taking the first one away, then his interest will have a focus before he has time to feel resentment or to rebel. For members of the family to do things together makes the work much more pleasant.
Contests relative to the work are sometimes helpful. Be cheerful when asking a child to do his work. Don't tell him in the spirit of driving. Let him know that you expect the finest type of 502 conduct from him.
Family pride encourages a child to do his best and to conform to family standards.
Show a child that you have confidence and trust in his integrity.
Obedience should receive its due compensation. A pat on the back, a smile or word of praise will show appreciation for good conduct.
Emphasizing the good will naturally tend to direct a child's thoughts. In the right channels.
Natural punishments are the best form of discipline. A boy who fails to do his daily chores later wants to play football. The mother is sorry for there is no reason in the world why he should not play football except that he neglected to do his work. It is just one of those unfortunate laws of nature.... If we do things when they should be done, pleasures are in order, but if we fail to do them the penalty is inevitable.... It is one of the laws, for the violation of which we must suffer (Edgar James Swirt: The Psychology of childhood, page 289). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE—JULY 1947 In explaining obedience to adolescents, teach them that all the blessings of life come through obedience to law.
Obedience based on full confidence and trust in the words and promises of the Lord should be the directing influence. Similarly, the child's faith and confidence in his parents should increase. It may be accomplished by being absolutely truthful, dependable to promises given, and thoroughly consistent in all dealings. The Lord has given us, in the Doctrine and Covenants, the reason why we should be obedient: There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated—And when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated (130:20-21). And, again, from the Doctrine and Covenants: I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise (82:10). Additional References Dr. Harold T. Christensen: 'The Road to Righteousness," particularly that portion under sub-heading "Obedience Plus," social science lesson published in The Relief Society Magazine, October 1944, pp. 605, 606. TO EACH HIS GIFT Rose Thomas Graham In modest brown, the nightingale Carols all night long; He does not pray for plumage gay— God's gift to him is song. A flash of color across the sky, The bluebird never sings; He does not pray in tuneful lay— God gave him azure wings! Call It a Day