When the Desert Blooms
By Dorothy Nell Mair

Rambling miles of arid desolation become America's greatest flower garden in May. A short time later, the fruit appears which means food to the desert Indians. To the Papago Indian woman, making her home upon the great desert of the Southwest, the season of the fruit harvest is the most important one of the year. Her orchard covers the whole of the Southwestern desert, arid, parched, monotonous, usurping the states of Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, and on into Old Mexico. Her fruit trees are the formidable cactus giants with sharp spines to painfully prick the fingers of those intruding upon their dignified privacy. The harvesting of the fruit from the cactus plants about the middle of June is the beginning of the Papago Indian new year, and a bountiful harvest is reason enough for rejoicing. The fruit from the cacti provide the sweets, the jams, and even the delectable fruit drink to aid the celebration along. Growing in colonies, each type of cactus presents a community covering many miles. Driving through these patches on smooth highways, one is impressed with the idea of going through one town after another. To make the most of the fruit harvest season, the Indians take up temporary abode in these colonies, or near them. Each day the fruit is gathered, and preserved either by drying in the desert sun, or by being made into jams and jellies. A good share of the fruit juice is made into the tribal drink for festive use. Every Indian woman is kept busy during the fruit harvest preserving the family's supply as quickly as it is gathered in. But these formidable-looking desert giants are more than an orchard. When the fruit preservation season is over, and the festivities have ushered in another new year, the time has come to gather building material to repair the home, or with which to build a new one. The dead cacti provide this, and the hollowed-out trunks provide cooking pots. The cactus wood is very durable, and by dropping hot stones into the bottom of the hollowed-out trunk, it can be converted into an oven.

While there are several hundreds of different cacti growing in profusion on the Southwestern desert, there are three types that one is inclined to notice first: the Sahuaro, the Organ Pipe, and the Barrel Cactus. Perhaps it is the giant size of the Sahuaro and the Organ Pipe, and the individuality of the Barrel Cactus which keeps them vividly in mind. The Sahuaro Cactus (pronounced sa-wah-ro) is the giant of the desert, and the sage of them all. It is not full grown until it attains an age of one hundred years, and lives as long as two hundred and fifty years. It often weighs six tons or more—truly a giant. Being especially adapted to its arid environment, it can live for three years without water. During periods of drought, Indians tap the cactus to obtain the stored water within. The flowers appear in May and June and the fruit which follows is pear-shaped and delicious. There are from one to twelve lateral branches, exhibiting fantastic shapes, on each plant.

WHEN THE DESERT BLOOMS

One plant has been known to bear from three hundred to three hundred and fifty berries during the season. This fruit is preserved into jam and jelly. This desert sage is a challenge to the elements. Wind cannot uproot it; birds cannot permanently injure it. Woodpeckers drill holes in its trunk and use them for nests. Hawks, too, nest in its branches. But the injuries made by the birds are healed and sealed over with a tissue coating, preventing the precious liquid stored within from seeping out. The cactus is entirely covered with long, sharp spines which prick the fingers painfully, and thus protect it from the ravages of beasts. The dry, dead cacti provide the material with which the Indian builds his home. The long dry ribs he uses for roofing his house, and the trunks furnish him with fence posts. These posts will not rot as ordinary wooden fence posts do. The wood is light and soft enough to take a beautiful polish. Of late years, it has been extensively used for souvenirs. Related to the giant cactus (the Sahuaro) is the Organ Pipe Cactus. It branches out from the root, rather than from the main trunk, and at night looks like a set of organ pipes in silhouette. Some have claimed to hear a peculiar humming tune as the wind swept through the colony on a summer evening. It grows to a height of ten to fifteen feet, and the flowers bloom at night. They, too, are white, and the fruit is edible, being preserved into jams and jellies by the Indians and Mexicans. Like its giant relative, it is covered with the sharp spines, and very often mistaken for the Sahuaro. Perhaps the most interesting one of all is the Barrel Cactus. This one

417

has long been known as man's best desert friend, and as such, has earned for itself a variety of names. Some call it the "Compass Cactus" and the "Traveler's Friend." Invariably leaning to the southwest, it has guided many a lost traveler back to camp when arid rolling hills stood in mute indifference to his confusion. Others have called it "The Water Barrel" but the most enticing name of all is "Candy Barrel Cactus." This cactus is found near El Paso, Texas, and looks like a barrel. It reaches a height of ten feet when fully grown, is globular in shape when young, and cylindrical when old. It is covered with long spines thickly placed together, and the flowers bloom in a yellow circle at the very top. Although not so tall as the other two just mentioned, it lives for over one hundred years, and has a marvelous capacity for storing water, readily obtainable by cutting off the top. The water is not very palatable, having a saline taste, but it will save one from thirst. It is not the fruit of this cactus that is preserved for food, but the cactus itself. After being cut, the spines are peeled off, and the fleshy part sliced and soaked in water over night. Next day, it is cooked until tender in a strong sugar solution and allowed to harden and crystallize. The result is a delicious, and very rich candy, which is gaining in popularity on American markets. When the last flower has withered and died, and the last bit of fruit has been preserved, when the last festival chant has been sung, the Indian begins his trek homeward, rich from the desert yield. There in his humble mud and wood shack life settles into a monotonous routine until the Desert blooms again.