The Children's Reading
By Florence Ivins Hyde

NO. VI—BOOKS TO READ ALOUD

"Could we give but one gift to every child,
We should choose the love of books."*
—William Frederick Bigelow.

Successful guiding of children's reading is the mutual enjoyment of books by parents and children. This capacity to enjoy can be taught in no finer way than by reading aloud. Besides the benefit we get through the sheer enjoyment of the family reading together, most of us will agree, from the experience of our youth, that our standards of conduct, our love of nature, our patriotism, and indeed our philosophy of life was greatly influenced by the stories read to us by our parents. Sharing books with our children establishes a partnership that grows more and more precious as the years go by. A book may open the way to many a discussion that parents feel diffident about undertaking.

Adolescent children read the same books as adults. If the book is good for you it is probably good for your growing son or daughter. You will rarely read a book too advanced in subject matter for them. They can also enjoy many of the stories you choose for your very young child, for many of these fine things take on a deeper meaning as we grow older. The best things can be read every few years, but with a different purpose each time. Take "Alice in Wonderland" for example. If you have not opened it since your childhood, do so now and you will find yourself laughing on every page. When you first read it, it was not funny at all, unless you were unusual. But now you enjoy the nonsense and the more sense you get the more you enjoy it. Some of the old fairy tales are so profound, so profoundly sad and so rich in human experience that you wonder what it was that you enjoyed in them before. There is more meaning in the story of "The China Shepherdess" who ran away with the chimney sweep, than there is in many a full length novel. Read it again for what it contains of human nature. Secure Kenneth Grahame's story "Wind in the Willows". This new classic is one of the most charming of all stories about animals that talk, dress, and act like people. While the little tots will be spell-bound with the adventure, the older ones will see far more in it than a mole leaving home in the middle of spring housecleaning. The spirit of England is in this book, and in the chapter where Pan himself appears we are taken back to old Greece, itself. "Gulliver's Travels" which you will find on the shelves of the children's libraries, probably was not intended for children at all. It is a searching criticism of the politics of the time. Swift put his ideas into the form of wonderful journeys, carrying his ideals well. The form is one that pleases imaginative children, but this story was written by a master of

*Courtesy "Good Housekeeping Magazine."

THE CHILDREN'S READING

English style. Adults cannot read it over without becoming a little impatient with slipshod English. "Pilgrim's Progress," "Robinson Crusoe," "Ivanhoe," or other stories of this same type should be made our friends. "Don Quixote" is one of the world's masterpieces and is full of interest.

It is claimed that humorous literature has been more neglected by the majority of well read parents than almost any other type. If that is true some emphasis upon education along this line is desirable. Very often tense situations arise which might be better controlled had we developed our sense of humor in our youth. It is an age-old custom when we are sick physically to hunt a remedy. Why not do so when we are sick emotionally? There are humorous readings which could not help but cheer us under almost any circumstance. The popular humor is so often accompanied by vulgarity and boys and girls cannot always distinguish between this and wholesome humor. They often grow up to think coarseness is humorous. Clean, sparkling

419

wit is exceedingly rare and some of the best humor makes no appeal. It demands a background of training and taste to enjoy subtle wit, the most delicious of all humor. That is something we must develop in boys and girls. We cannot begin too early to cultivate this taste. You will enjoy "Plupy" by Shute, "Doctor Doolittle", or "Rootabaga Stories" equally as much as your young son. Then as your family reaches adulthood read the "Penrod" stories, or "The Young Mrs. Jones", or "Perfect Behavior." This last named volume is a parody outline of etiquette, intended to poke fun at our rules of correct form. It is dedicated with deep sympathy to the bridegroom whose wedding was ruined because the bride came down the aisle on the right instead of the left arm of her father. The variety of subjects treated and the manner in which they are treated will lift anyone out of a grouch. So when such tense occasions as weddings and political campaigns, etc. threaten to destroy the usual tranquility of the household, let us try reading aloud some good book of humor.