Good Manners

Interesting, challenging, demanding, life today moves forward with speed and aggressiveness. Its driving force is so pronounced that individuals cannot relax and keep pace. All are constantly faced with struggle; struggle in the home, in business and in social pursuits. So engaging is the contest that one must be constantly on the alert, watching for advantage in order to survive. The spirit of present-day living is making people self-assertive, thoughtless of the rights of one another and often genuinely selfish. More or less unconscious of this most of us, if accused, would respond with a quick denial. However, conditions all about us bear testimony of its existence. The high accident rate on the highway, the lack of reverence in our churches, crowding and jostling for positions of vantage in public gatherings, handling of merchandise in shops, care of books in libraries, and the general disrespect for the rights and possessions of others, cry out for control of our selfish impulses and increased exercise of courtesy and good manners. Good manners after all is the suiting of our behavior to the greatest benefit, comfort and ease of others.

EDITORIALS

Essential in the promotion of human welfare and happiness it calls for constant attention. Human felicity is produced not so much by great pieces of good fortune as by little considerations that occur every day. Genuine courtesy comes from the heart and is based on morality, decency, and consideration. Good manners involve the art of adjusting our behavior to superiors, equals and inferiors, leaving all at ease. Transcending the habits of clique, caste, or period it makes itself felt by all classes. Too often we think of good manners in rather a restricted sense, interpreting it as a knowledge of what constitutes "good form." Time, place, and situation dictate what is correct form. There are continual revolutions in social forms according to prevailing fashion. What is "the right thing to do" today may not be so tomorrow. What is right in one situation may not be so in another. "Good form" changes with more or less frequency, and must be learned while good manners comes from within and never goes out of fashion. Ignorance of correct social form can not properly be styled ill manners. There are individuals who pride themselves upon their knowledge of "the right thing to do," yet in the exercise of this knowledge are often guilty of gross bad manners. On the other hand individuals who are

423

genuinely considerate may at times cause uneasiness and embarrassment because of lack of knowledge of social forms. The desirable thing is good manners in its broadest sense, genuine consideration and thorough knowledge of what to do under all circumstances. These two cannot be disassociated in the perfect lady or gentleman. Our Log Cabin Lady early learned that it was not enough for her to be her own sweet self, that in order to be thoroughly at ease herself and to put others at ease she must acquaint herself with all accepted social graces wherever she found herself. So must we all slacken our speed and give more attention to the improvement of our manners. Emerson it was who said, "A beautiful behavior is better than a beautiful form; it gives higher pleasure than statues or pictures; it is the finest of fine arts." Every one of us should consciously endeavor to develop perception of the best interests of one another. We should avail ourselves of every opportunity to learn what constitutes the most socially acceptable behavior. We should constantly teach and exercise good manners until they become fixed habits. There are few other things that will tend to unite people more or pay higher dividends on time and attention invested. A man's own good-breeding is his best security against other peoples' ill manners?Lord Chesterfield.

By harmony our souls are swayed;
By harmony the world was made.