Devotional

Youth
By Christie Lund Coles

Someone has called youth the gateway to the Temple of Life. And what an apt and beautiful expression. It is such a lovely time. Such an important time. Such a brief time to mean so much to all that follows after it. The Temple itself depends on this portal, this gateway through which hundreds of our youths are passing even now.

I wish I could reach out to all you young people and touch you and speak to you and in speaking to you, say something that would give you courage and faith, strength and vision. I wish, without preaching, without moralizing, I could make you understand how important it is that you be clean and fine, that you remain true to the best that you know. It isn't just that we who have gone before like to preach, like to deny you things. It is rather that we know how much greater will be the yield of the years if you are wise and prudent now.

We are still young enough to understand all that you feel, all that you want. We sense your impatience. Life seems so long to you now, love and the thrills of living seem slow in coming. But the real thrills of living are not quite what you think. Some of you are graduating this month from high schools or colleges, many of you are getting married. These are thrills that will endure and be sweet in memory as long as memories remain. That is, if you come to them worthily: If you graduate realizing that this marks not the end of school alone but the beginning of life, the beginning of responsibility; if you have prepared yourself well for what lies ahead and not wasted your opportunities and must come to look back and wish that you had taken advantage of them. If you come to marriage pure and sweet, understanding and tender, unselfish and forebearing, you will know the most perfect joy that can come to a man or woman. But if, on the other hand, you have been impatient, if you have believed that it wasn't important that you be absolutely chaste, if you believe that marriage is a one-sided affair, there is pain and disillusionment ahead just as surely as dawn follows night. Millions of broken hearts, ruined lives, shattered faiths testify that this is true.
Don't think you have a right to learn these things for yourself. You will regret it all your days. You will wish year in and year out, for as long as you live, that you could go back and start again. True, many fine men and women have started over and gone on to worthy lives and accomplishments. But their scars are there, deep and unhealing. Be sure of that. And the further they have gone the more deeply they have regretted the wrong thing, the selfish and unkind thing.
The whole world is yours. The whole beautiful Temple of Life. There is nothing to be feared from any source whatever except your own self. You are your only enemy, your only rival, the only one who can really hurt you. Other things and influences can only hurt you if you let them. Make up your minds now where you are going, what you are going to do, what you are going to be. Don't let the world daunt you. It will bow before the courageous spirit, the happy, confident heart. Don't let the pessimists tell you there is no chance today. There is just as much chance as there has ever been, probably more for the one who dares go ahead, dares make his own opportunities, dares to give the world the best that is in him.
YOUTH
We believe in you, Youth. We trust you. We are wishing the best of everything for you: The riches of peace and honor and pride, a clean conscience and a light heart, all the things that the years will yield if you but enter the gateway to the Temple of Life softly, worthily, knowing that you are in a holy place.
385
"I would be true, for there are those who trust me;
I would be pure, for there are those who care;
I would be strong, for there is much to suffer;
I would be brave, for there is much to dare.
"I would be friend of all, the foe, the friendless—
I would be giving and forget the gift;
I would be humble for I know my weakness—
I would look up, and laugh, and lift."
  (Anon.)