Hannah
By Elizabeth Worthington Shane

On the southern slope of Mount Ephraim lived righteous Elkanah, the Ephraimite. Two dwellings opened onto his spacious court; one for his wife, Peninnah, with her brood of rosy-cheeked children, one for his beloved Hannah, the fairest matron of Mount Ephraim.

It was night, and Hannah walked alone across the silent court in anguish of spirit. She kept her eyes turned away from the lighted windows of Peninnah's quarters from which came the sound of laughter, the happy shouting of children's voices. Her throat ached and her heart was heavy as she looked out across the dark valley, then raised her eyes to the cloud-streaked sky. "Oh, how long, how long can I bear it?" she asked herself; for only today Peninnah had taunted her again because she had no child. Trailing her noisy brood within easy hearing of Hannah's door, she shouted loudly: "Keep away from there, children! Don't look in. She's an evil woman, cursed by the Lord." Then the curious-eyed children edged away as if in dread of some evil thing. Among the women, too, Peninnah gossiped in her presence, invoking sharp and cruel glances that cut to the heart of her.

Elkanah, coming to her door and finding her not in, was troubled, but looking across the way, he saw a lone figure moving in the dark, and knew that it must be she. Alarmed, he hastened to overtake her.

"Hannah! Hannah, my own, why do you walk out here alone?" he asked.

"Because I cannot stand the silence of my house. I cannot stand it, Elkanah." She beat upon her breast in her anguish.

Her husband tried to comfort her. "You are wrought up again, darling. Come. Put away your grief. Is my love as nothing to you? You know that I love you more than anything in life."

"Your love is very dear to me, Elkanah, but it doesn't shield me against Peninnah's taunts."

Elkanah frowned darkly. "Ah, so it's Peninnah again. Curse the fury of a jealous woman! Can't you see, Hannah, it's only her jealousy; for how can I hide my great love for you?"

"Ah, yes," she answered, "but all Israel knows that it's true that the Lord is displeased with me, His handmaiden."

"Not so, my loyal wife, but the Lord is withholding a blessing for you that will outshine them all! Mark me well. Now, come, my beautiful one, and no more of this morbid brooding."

It was time for the yearly sacrifice in Shiloh, and Elkanah took his wives and children, together with the choicest fatlings of his herds, and went up to worship the Lord. There old Eli and his two sons ministered in the temple. The time had come for Elkanah's offering. The long table was heavy with food, for the people made much of this feast-time. Elkanah served Peninnah and her

HANNAH

children their portions; then he went to the other side of the table and served Hannah a larger portion than any. Peninnah's sharp eyes were quick to notice, and jealousy rose up in her as a flame. "So!" she thought, "He openly shows his preference!" Then a subtle thought stole into her mind. "She has his love, but I have my children to bespeak my righteousness before the people." Then turning to the women beside her, she said: "See my fine boys and girls! Aren't they beautiful children? The eldest boy is so like his father, the dark eyes, the high, broad forehead!" Then directing their glances to Hannah, she said in a loud whisper: "Cursed she is by the Lord. Cursed! Never a child!"

Bitter tears of humiliation and hurt trickled down Hannah's cheeks and fell on her hands that lay idle in her lap. Her throat felt as if it would burst, and food would have choked her. Elkanah tried vainly to comfort her. "Hannah, my dear, why do you not eat and stop weeping? Why do you grieve so? Am I not better to you than ten sons?" Man that he was, he could not understand maternal hunger for offspring.

Hannah could endure it no longer. She rose from her place at the table and broke away from him in the crowd. Presently old Eli, the priest, sitting by a post of the temple, saw her kneeling, her lips forming words that were not audible. "Oh, Lord of hosts," she prayed, "look upon the affliction of thine handmaid and remember me.... Give unto thine handmaid a man child, and I will give him unto the

399

Lord all the days of his life. I promise, Lord."

"Woman, how long wilt thou be drunken? Put away thy wine from thee. For shame!" It was the stern voice of old Eli, who misunderstood her manner.

"No, my lord," she answered, "I have not drunk wine; but out of the abundance of my grief have I called upon God."

The old priest's face softened. "Then, go in peace," he said, "and the Lord grant thee thy petition."

On the journey home Hannah's face was no longer sad. Her heart was singing a new song. She carried a secret in her breast that even Peninnah's taunts could not cut through. The next year when Elkanah and his household went up to Shiloh to worship, Hannah stayed in Ramah on Mount Ephraim, and nurtured the baby, Samuel.

"Remember," said Elkanah, "you have promised him to the Lord."

"I know, I know," she answered, "I will wait till he is weaned, and then I will take him and give him—to—the Lord."

"Very well," said her husband, "only—the Lord establish His word."

The next year Elkanah went up while Hannah tarried at home, and again the next year. Little Samuel was a goodly child, a sturdy youngster, growing lovelier in the eyes of his fond mother every day. The time had come when Hannah must bow to the unswerving decree. Well, God had been good. He had taken away her reproach from among women. He had lifted her to esteem in the eyes of her adversary. He had fed her hungry heart with the love of a hea-

400

ven-sent babe. She was ready to bequeath the most precious gift that womankind had ever offered. "But I'll only lend him to the Lord," she said to herself. "He'll always be mine—always."

On the way to Shiloh Hannah dared not think on her future, but kept her mind fixed on the vision of her little son ministering efficiently in the temple. Shiloh was already swarming with people when the caravan arrived bearing the young child, Samuel. Elkanah slew a bullock and offered, then he and Hannah took the child to the priest. Hannah did not hang back or hesitate, but spoke out bravely. "Oh, my lord, I am the woman who prayed by you here in the temple. It was for this child that I prayed, and the Lord granted me my petition. Therefore I have come to lend him to the Lord as I promised. As long as he lives he shall serve the Lord." Old Eli looked kindly upon the child, and knew that this was the Lord's hand-dealing. His two sons, Hophni and Phineas, the young priests, had sorely displeased the God of Israel with their revelry; therefore, the Lord had raised Him up a righteous servant.

Very early in the morning the company of Elkanah rose and worshipped, then set out on the long journey homeward. Hannah rode silently most of the way, deep in thought. The day was hot and the journey tiresome. When they broke camp after the evening meal, dusk had already settled over the valley of Ephraim. The rest of the party was moving on, but Hannah clutched at her husband's arms, her face pale and worried. "Elkanah, it's getting dark! Do—do you think he will be all

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

right?" Elkanah pressed her dark head to his shoulder. "Of course, my lovely one. Everything will be all right." Hannah wept till her tears wet her husband's garment. "But he's such a baby, Elkanah! Do you think that old Eli will know how to care for him?" "I'm sure old Eli will be very tender with him, darling," he answered. "But he may wake in the night and miss me. Oh, Elkanah, think of him crying his little heart out in the dark!" Elkanah pressed a kiss to the troubled forehead. "The Lord will take care of His own, my dear. You must be brave," he counseled. Hannah raised her head and tilted her chin courageously. "Of course—of course He will. He even heeded the cry of His handmaiden.. I will be brave. I will." They mounted their camels and rode on toward Mount Ephraim. To them the night was a hallowed one. Back in Ramah, the house of Hannah was strangely empty and silent, yet to Hannah's heart it was so full of the echoes of childish laughter and prattle that it would never seem completely silent again. And the stern decree of Israel seemed to ring in her ears, a balancing couplet to the gay echoes: "The Lord establish His word." "What can I do," she pondered, "to keep my baby from forgetting me? Ah, I have it!—I'll make him a beautiful coat. I'll embroider it in the colors that he likes best, and take it up to him at the feast-time in Shiloh. And—year after year—I'll make him—a little coat."