John Keats

You Are Going To Be Married
By Helen Spencer Williams

So you are going to be married! And right now you are not thinking of anything except your glorious good times—parties, showers, your dainty pink things, your neat little stacks of linen, embroidered with yours and his monogram. The romance of these last few weeks before you take your sacred vows is filled with one thrill after another. This is just as it should be, because a thrilling time it is—a time when all of the world seems to be made and planned for just you two. Stars shine for you. Music with all of its soft harmonies has been selected, it seems, especially because you love it. You never knew life could be so full. These things to you right now are paramount.

In the days prior to your courtship of course there were many things which concerned you both. You were very analytical of each other before your final decision was made, before you asked each other and accepted each other for the greatest experience in all life. There were certain things of which you were very sure—each other's health records and moral traits. Disposition entered into those first friendship days, because no one with intelligence desires to go through life hand in hand with a person who does not have the ability to look upon the sunny side of things as they happen. There were other things, such as the station in life from which you both came. This was most important to you, because being very intelligent persons you knew the only way to find happiness was to seek it with someone whose ideals, standards, likes, and dislikes were similar to your own.

Your analysis is in the background now and you are looking forward to this great new experience. You feel that on the foundation of those things which were laid during friendship days you are prepared to build a structure which will be permanent and eternal and which by putting into it all of the best materials available, will weather any storm or disaster which may come.

Soon all of this excitement of the few weeks prior to your wedding day and the exhilaration of that greatest of all days will have calmed down. Quite suddenly you will stand together looking into each other's eyes and realize that this game of marriage is before you to make of it success or failure.

There is nothing magical in the marriage ceremony. The words that are spoken which bind you together as husband and wife, which make you as one in the eyes of the world and before God, are after all words. It remains with you then, you two people, to bring into full meaning and life the sacredness of those vows and the fulfillment of the promises which are bestowed upon you on the day that you are married.

Let us think for a moment of the part the wife plays in making of marriage all that it may be. To Latter-day Saint girls the challenge of marriage is perhaps greater than to any other girls in the world, for it is an eternal vow which they take, not just for today, but forever and ever. Because of the importance of this, they must bring all of the intelligence, all of the spirituality in their power to make their marriage successful. After all, it is

YOU ARE GOING TO BE MARRIED

up to the girl to make of her house a home. For into the house where the man she loves carries her as a bride, unless there is perfect management, that house remains only a house. It is when the household runs smoothly, when meals are prepared on time, when they are attractively served, when fresh flowers adorn the house, that it becomes home. A girl without managerial ability, which after all is that power to make everything go easily without frustration and excitement, can never run her home as it should be.

One man once paid this tribute to his wife: "There have been many times when I have been late for dinner. I can never remember a time in my married life when dinner was late for me. There have been times when I appeared a bit unkempt and unshaved. I never remember of arriving home when I didn't find her cleaned up and the children with clean hands and faces waiting expectantly for me. It means much to a man to have his wife manage things so that he feels an air of importance when he comes home at night tired from a hectic day."

Yet how often all of the good management in the world will fail to make for happiness unless a girl has that blessed quality of good nature, the ability to laugh when the chops burn, when everything seems to go wrong. There is nothing which will endear a wife to her husband, to her friends, and particularly to his relatives, like the spirit of good nature. Once there was a little bride who was entertaining for the first time her husband's family. All day long she baked and cleaned and polished and primped. She was going to serve turkey. The hour of the dinner drew near. Her table was spotless with its bridal linen, shining with its wedding crystal and silver. Everything had turned out perfectly.

381

Then she tried to lift the turkey on its brand new platter to the table only to find that it was too heavy. So she called to her husband to come and carry the festive bird to the guests. He managed beautifully from the kitchen to the table and just as he went to place the platter, the turkey slipped, knocking glasses and flowers and splattering dressing and grease all over. For just a moment there was a tragic silence. No one knew what was going to happen. In that split second everyone wondered how the little bride would take the catastrophe, and then, bless her soul, she started to laugh—not an hysterical laugh, but a low rippling laugh of good nature. Immediately everyone joined in. The mother of the groom said, "You darling." The father muttered something which sounded like, "Good sport." The groom, after the guests had gone, took his little wife into the kitchen and putting his arms around her, said, "I will love you forever for the way you took the clumsy thing I did tonight."

Good nature will help married life over more rough places than anyone could ever imagine, and lucky is the lad who has a wife whose smiles are closer to the surface than are her tears.

Marriage takes loads of understanding, for there is hardly a day comes which does not bring its perplexities, its never-ending financial problems. And the girl who has an understanding heart will bring solace to the man who is out daily fighting battles which few women ever know about.

During the first few months of married life, no one will seem very important except just "Me and my wife." But soon the importance of friends will become manifest. No one can go through life without

382

friends. No man or woman is sufficient unto the other without the addition of friends. Consequently the girl who has social ability, that quality which acts as a magnet drawing people into her circle, is a valuable one. Not that any couple wants to "be on the go" continually. Yet if in the early days of married life there is an air of hospitality born within a home, it will carry throughout all of the years to come. When children grow up in that household, instead of always making excuses to be out, instead of carrying on their courtships in the back seats of automobiles, they will want to come home where mother and father will throw wide the doors and make these children and their friends welcome.

Refinement in married life becomes more important as the years go on. From refinement is born an ever increasing desire for the best that life has to offer. Into the home of a refined couple good books make their way, the sweet harmony of music is heard, pictures of beauty and good taste adorn the walls. Refinement sends its influence into the material things of the home as well as into the actions and words of all those who live therein.

Frequently the young wife is tempted by an alluring call from her old employer to come back at double her old salary and work for him for a few months. Temptation is the only thing it can be called, because the place of a young wife, if it is possible at all, is to establish her home and have her babies in those first early years of marriage. It is the natural thing to do. A thousand times better if parents would come to the aid of young couples who get into straitened financial difficulties than to have the wife go back to work. Of course there are exceptional cases. But often the husband, if his wife is making a

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

salary comparable to his own, gets to feel that after all she is perfectly able to take care of herself, and immediately one of the important qualities of a husband begins to weaken—that quality of being the provider and the protector—then a certain sweetness goes out of their wedded life.

The girl who works after marriage, especially during the first several years, finds it easier and easier to put off the time when she shall have her first baby. She argues: "If I work a few more months, I will have enough saved to pay all of the doctor bills, or 'we can afford to have the bedroom painted and papered." This is such faulty reasoning—balancing the everlasting thrills and joys of having a baby of their own, a family of their own, against material luxuries.

A wife's place is in her home, managing it for her husband, and bringing children into the world which will bless them and compensate them a thousand times for any sacrifice which they have to make. The wife plays an important role in establishing early the type of a home and the kind of a family spirit which she and her husband will have all of their long years together.

Now what of the husband? There has been much said about the responsibilities of the wife, but not one whit less important is the part which the husband plays. Into this marriage state which can be so gloriously happy or so matter-of-fact and humdrum comes the first thing which to a man may not seem important at all and which either makes or breaks a wife's continued love for him—consideration.

There are so many little sweet things which make a wife's twenty-four-hour-a-day job worth while. The expression in the morning of "How sweet you look, dear," "My, these rolls are good," are just little comments

YOU ARE GOING TO BE MARRIED

and yet to a woman's heart they sound the keynote of her entire day's song. Consideration—that certain something which causes a man to sense his wife's moods, her needs, and creates in him a desire to adjust to them. Ask any woman if she would rather have a dozen roses on special days like her birthday or Valentine's or if she would take just one thoughtful act, one appreciative expression every day in the year which would cost nothing, and the answer would be unanimously, "The little thing which comes daily to make me realize that he still cares."

The man who gives his wife an allowance, who makes her feel that she is his equal in managing, in budgeting, endears himself to her. Of course she is going to make mistakes, many of them, if she has never earned money and never had any of her own to spend, but how many of the marital quarrels and misunderstandings would be done away with if the young groom would start married life on a partnership basis instead of assuming the attitude that she should account to him for every bar of soap, every can of soup, and every spool of thread. Financial understanding is necessary for happiness.

The husband who, if he has criticisms to make, waits until he is alone with his wife to make them, will ever be beloved by her. So often young couples get into the habit, facetiously perhaps at first, of belittling and ridiculing each other before family and friends. One young couple pledged to each other that unless they could say something praiseworthy of the other when out in company, they would keep silent. Why shouldn't husband and wife be complimentary to each other? Why

383

fall into the habit of saying unkind things? A wife needs to feel an ever increasing and growing pride in her husband and in his ability. This comes about if her husband ever shows a spirit of ambition, for every girl in the earliest years of her dream of the home that she is someday to have, pictures in that future, security, and she is entitled to it. A man must ever press onward, must ever go forward, improving himself, seeking more knowledge, and endeavoring to better his condition. The spirit of "letting well enough alone" will dull the ardor of a woman's love. A wife's confidence in her husband, her belief that he has great possibilities, and that she knows that some day he is going to achieve and conquer, may be the requisites for keeping that ambition alive.

Marriage without spirituality is not marriage. It is only a few spoken words. The husband and wife who on their wedding day can kneel together and pray that their marriage may be blessed with divine guidance, who will seek each and every day for the fulfillment of the blessings which are promised to them in the Temple of God, who together attend to their Church duties, paying their tithing and giving their service to the Church, will have the greatest chance for successful marriage. With a spiritual foundation, with the desire to bring into their marriage state everything that is lovely, romantic, and good, they will go forward year by year, gaining more happiness, more thrills, and enjoying a more beautiful companionship than was ever dreamed of in those first few ecstatic weeks of planning their marriage.