Conference Address
April 4, 1938

Progress
By Henry D. Moyle

The experiences of the Church in the past two years illustrate anew the necessity for cooperation, loyalty and unity in our ranks in waging war against our common enemies, unemployment, want, and despair. We must all follow our great leader's command. Social Security for all is the common problem of the members of our Church. The Priesthood quorums and the Relief Society each share the responsibility of giving to the individual the group assistance necessary. The Relief Society, true to its traditions, must do its full share in accomplishing this great purpose. The active participation in this program by every Relief Society officer and member is essential to the establishment of social and economic security in the Church. The Relief Society is the auxiliary organization to which the Priesthood must look for continued assistance in the performance of its full social duty toward its people. The work of the Relief Society results in a two-fold service: first, a service to the people developed by the initiative, long experience, and foresight of the Relief Society itself, and now constituting the Society's regular program; and second, special services rendered from time to time at the special request of the Priesthood. For both, we must rely upon the individual members of the Relief Society. The mothers in the home. Certainly, the mothers must instill the spirit of independence in their children, and in this way alone can do much toward making the family a self-sustaining unit. The mothers collectively constitute the Ward Relief Society. This ward organization, in turn, renders a service which is threefold in its nature: first, a service which is purely local, adapted by the ward group to the immediate needs of its own community; second, special assistance rendered the bishop of the ward, at his request; third, stake and general church service, as required. The first two classes of service are confined to the ward itself in which the organization exists. The latter service is rendered in cooperation with other wards under the supervision of the stake and the general Church Relief Society boards. This very general classification of the services rendered is important in outlining the appropriate place of the Relief Society in our present Church Security work. Our plan calls for the greatest possible amount and variety of service to be initiated and executed by the Relief Society member individually and the ward organization collectively. The entire resources of the stake and general Relief Society officers and boards should be utilized in stimulating this individual initiative, and in conserving and developing all our resources. This includes the proper distribution and use of our surpluses—our time as well as our commodities.

406

From its inception the regular work of the Relief Society has been performed under a general commission from the Priesthood. The present work, in relationship to the Church Security program, is performed under a special commission from the Priesthood. These two commissions in no wise conflict. This special commission to assist in the work of the security committees does not detract from, but rather adds to the authority the Relief Society has had heretofore. In short, it can be said that in order to carry out its present special commission, no past or present activity of the Relief Society in any wise need be stifled. On the contrary, the Relief Society, under the supervision of the ward bishop, the stake president, and the general authorities, should continue to take care of both regular and special assignments. With the bishop of the ward directing both the regular programs, on the one hand, and the special Church Security assignments, on the other, there can be no conflict. It should be very gratifying to the Relief Society to reflect upon the important place given it in the organization of our ward and stake security committees. After all, upon these local committees rests the responsibility for the final success of our program. The ward committee consists of the bishop or one of his counselors, designated to act for him, as its chairman, the president of the ward Relief Society, a representative of each of the Melchizedek quorums and of the adult Aaronic Priesthood group, and two ward work directors, as its members. The stake president or his counselor presides over the stake committee, with the stake president

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

of Relief Society, the president of the High Priests' quorum, the chairman of the bishop's executive committee, and two stake work directors as members. One ward and one stake work director are selected each from the Priesthood and the Relief Society. These committees determine the security policy of the ward and stake, and actually direct the work in executing these policies. Here Relief Society presidents and work directors appointed from the Relief Society are given a real opportunity for constructive planning, as well as actual execution of such plans as are agreed upon. It is not a case of taxation without representation. Duplications and conflicts are eliminated here. This committee work adds, of course, to the regularly established work of the Relief Society, but is of inestimable value to the Church Security program in carrying out its purposes. In the final analysis, these ward social security committees act upon the advice and counsel of the bishop and stake president. It is readily seen, therefore, that the regular order of the Church is followed in all that these committees undertake, and particularly in relation to the activities of the Relief Society in formulating and executing the plans for Church social security. The ward security committee, acting as a whole, determines its policy and decides to pursue a certain project. The bishop then assigns to the Relief Society the scope of its activity therein. Stake presidents of Relief Societies bear the same relationship to the stake security committee as do ward presidents to the ward committee. We emphasize the work of the ward committee for

ADDRESS

the benefit of stake presidents in supervising ward work, as well as for the benefit of all ward workers. Let us take, for example, a Relief Society ward or stake organization which is sponsoring sewing in the home as a Relief Society activity. The Relief Society finances this project with its own funds and conducts it with its own officers and teachers. The General Church Security Committee, on the other hand, has established sewing centers at advantageous places in the various wards and stakes, where sisters learn the art of sewing and other handicrafts, where unemployed sisters find remunerative group employment. Sisters who are already sewing in their own homes under the supervision and direction of the Relief Society, or who contemplate doing so, or who can appropriately do so, should be left to that work. It is the aim of all to utilize the ability and resources of our people to gain maximum results. The sewing centers established and financed by the General Committee, with the approval and consent of the Relief Society, furnish employment for sisters who are capable of instructing and educating others, and afford opportunity for those who need education and training or remunerative employment outside of the home. Thus, we see how the activities of the Relief Society, and the Church Security Committee, do not conflict, but in fact complement each other. Both are essential. The same is true of canning and other similar projects. Each individual should be encouraged to adapt herself to the work for which she is best fitted.

407
For the past year, special meetings of stake and ward social security workers have been appointed at all Priesthood quarterly conferences. To these meetings, the stake and ward Relief Society officers are always invited. Their attendance is essential to the success of our program. A member of the General Church Security Committee is present, primarily for the purpose of correlating the work of the ward and the stake with that of the Church generally, of suggesting new activities, answering such questions as may exist in the minds of ward and stake workers, and reporting to the general authorities on the work of the particular wards and stakes. Bishops of wards, presidents of stakes, and all other members of the Church Security committees are invited to be present at these meetings. It is interesting to note that one of the principle topics discussed at most of these meetings has been the participation of the Relief Society in our program, and for that reason it is not only desirable, but essential that Relief Society officers be present at these meetings.
Our work divides itself into two major sub-divisions: first, the giving of temporary relief; second, the creation of permanent employment for our people. This temporary relief is ordinarily given to the family as a unit. To do so intelligently, we are dependent upon the Relief Society to survey, estimate, and budget the needs of the family. We believe that, generally speaking, Priesthood quorums, bishops or stake presidents cannot afford to act in matters of temporary relief, without first obtaining the assistance and advice of the Relief Society. By so doing, we shall practice economy and, at the same time, secure adequate and sympathetic assistance for the family.

408

The Relief Society is also given an opportunity, through its participation in the work of these security committees, to correlate the work of all relief agencies, both in and out of the Church, and to avoid duplications, serious in their consequences. The ward committee furnishes a most excellent opportunity to accomplish all of these purposes. The bishop calls the ward committee together once a week; the stake president, the stake committee. Take an example of a problem coming before a ward committee: The High Priests' quorum has investigated and found a family of one of its members in need. This is reported at this weekly committee meeting. Through its regular calls upon the families in its community, the Relief Society generally knows something of the condition of this family already. Indeed, if the Relief Society is the first to become aware of such a situation, it should make such a report at this meeting. The proper solution of the family's difficulty is here fully discussed. Finally, the High Priests' supervisor assumes the responsibility, on behalf of the quorum, with the approval of the quorum presidency, of providing for the temporary needs of this family, as well as to seek and furnish permanent remunerative employment for the father. The Relief Society is requested by the bishop, at the instance of the High Priests' quorum, to determine the needs of the family and to render such other assistance as may be appropriate. There may be an unemployed son in the family, who is an Elder. The president of the Elders' quorum is present at this meeting of the ward security committee, and he pledges the efforts of the Elders' quorum to find employment for the son, and to as-

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

sist the High Priests and the Relief Society in stabilizing and securing the independence of this family as a group. At the next meeting of the committee, a report of the past week's accomplishments is made, and the work for the next week outlined, assignments being given to avoid unnecessary duplication or waste. It is at this weekly meeting the Relief Society receives its special assignments for the week. Projects to accomplish either of the major purposes of our relief program must be discussed and approved by this committee before actually undertaken. When this is done, the group desiring to undertake the approved project, furnishes the funds therefor, so far as possible, from its own organization. Proper financing forms a part of every project initiated. Where it is absolutely necessary to have partial financial assistance in the accomplishment of any project, appropriate application can be made therefor by this ward security committee, through the bishop, to the stake president, and in due course to the General Committee for its investigation, suggestion and assistance. The Relief Society, along with other auxiliaries, is called upon to exercise its initiative, to suggest projects, and, upon their approval, to execute them by the use of its own funds. Where necessary, a Relief Society may be assisted financially. This financial assistance to groups carrying on projects is in the nature of a loan. These loans are to aid self-liquidating projects, or to assist in establishing families upon an independent and secure basis. It is from the successful conduct of these various projects, however financed, that we acquire the commodities with which to furnish the temporary relief necessary.
ADDRESS
Already an assignment has been made by the General Committee in each stake which, if carried out as assigned, will meet the estimated food and clothing requirements of our people for the winter of 1938-39. The Relief Society not only assists in fulfilling these budget requirements: that is, accumulating commodities, but cooperates with the Church Security Committee in their distribution. Here, again, the ward "committee is all-important. From these accumulations, it sets apart in 'he storehouse designated for that purpose by the stake or region, sufficient thereof to meet its own needs, and in turn requisitions from other similar storehouses the things it has not accumulated or cannot accumulate. In determining what its own needs are, the Relief Society president and the Relief Society ward work director counsel with the bishop and with the other members of the ward committee in its weekly committee meeting. The decision of this committee controls. Nothing should be set aside or requisitioned for ward use until the ward committee as a unit has passed upon the necessity therefor. This involves unanimity of opinion and action on the part of the bishop, the Relief Society, the Priesthood quorums and the ward work directors. Likewise, similar unity must exist in the stake committee. Where the accumulations of the ward exceed its demands or estimated requirements, the surplus is contributed to the stake for distribution among the wards less fortunate, and when not required by the stake committee for that purpose, is passed on to the region and in turn to the General Committee. In determining what is required in a stake, the stake Relief Society president sits in coun- 409 cil with the stake president and with the other members of the Stake Security committee, including the stake work director selected from the Relief Society. These same ward and stake committees are responsible for the proper and economical distribution of all contributions to the Church Security Program. They call to their assistance and utilize to the fullest extent every Church agency. In so doing, these security committees define for each agency the particular part to be performed by it. This applies in full measure to the Relief Society. In other words, it should be determined in this weekly ward or stake security committee meeting, presided over by the bishop or stake president, just what part the ward or stake Relief Society shall perform in connection with the distribution of commodities. A WORD might profitably be said concerning the credit to be given the Relief Society for its participation in the Church Security Program. Like other individuals or organizations in the Church, credit should be properly given for all that is done. The Relief Society, through its own officers, accurately records its own activities. The Church Security committees have been urged to keep accurate records of all their work, and to issue appropriate receipts for all work accomplished and all contributions given. The Relief Society should receive appropriate receipts for all that it does and all that it contributes, whether it be an hour's work, a bushel of: wheat, a bottle of fruit, a quilt, or the furnishing or finding of remunerative employment for any woman. A Relief Society can carry on a project and contribute the results of the project 410 to the Church Security program through the ward bishop, just as the individual can make a voluntary contribution. Appropriate credit should be given in each case. It is suggested that if the stake or regional security committee calls for sisters to assist in canning, and these sisters are furnished by the Relief Society through the ward or stake work director, it is not necessary to apportion the number of cans filled with food to each Relief Society participating, but rather to give such organization credit for the number of sisters furnished: and the number of day's work performed. To do otherwise would require, in many instances, complicated and unnecessary calculations and bookkeeping. S WAS stated in the beginning, it is never to be lost sight of that whatever the Relief Society does in carrying out the assignments of the ward security committee, it still RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE has the responsibility of continuing with its normal activities and fulfilling the full object and purpose of its creation. It is not the purpose of the Church Security plan to interfere with any Relief Society in the administration of its own funds, or in carrying out its own purposes. It can just as readily today, as it has in the past, minister to the sick, advance child and maternal welfare, continue to carry on its Mormon handicraft, and, in short, all other activities for which it has become favorably known not only throughout the Church but throughout the world. No organization in the Church is to be commended more highly than the Relief Society, under the able direction of its leaders, for the good accomplished and for its advancement in each of the fields of its activities for which it is responsible. May we not request its helpfulness in aid of the projects the general authorities expect us to carry out?