Notes from the Field
Julia A. F. Lund, General Secretary

[THIS IS FIGURE: Black and white photograph showing a group of women, labeled as "PRESIDENTS OF CALIFORNIA STAKES"]

California Stakes

The above picture of Presidents of the California Stakes is typical of the group of women who assembled for our recent Conference. It represents all of the stakes in California, except Sacramento. Reading from left to right: Blanch Hoglund, Los Angeles; Zatelle F. Sessions, Hollywood; Sara H. Carruth, Oakland; Pearl C. Miner, Long Beach; Sadie E. Williams, Pasadena; Ethel Blomquist, San Bernardino; Esther D. Stephens, San Francisco; Ruthe B. Samson, Gridley.

Blackfoot

A very interesting report comes from the Blackfoot Stake. These enterprising Relief Society workers have wholeheartedly cooperated in putting over the project suggested by the Work and Business department. Fine results in bread making, sewing, and laundering have been achieved. This is tangible evidence of the enthusiasm with which the "Back to the Home" movement has been received. Representing the bread-making project, each of the fifteen wards in the Stake was asked to supply:

1 loaf whole wheat bread
1 loaf white bread
Some variety of quick bread
Some variety of fancy breads, as orange, date, nuts, etc.

This was judged in the same manner followed in the State Fair: First, second and third prizes were marked by blue, red, and white ribbons respectively. The judges felt

428

that practically every loaf of bread was worthy of a ribbon. In order to get a better idea of the extent of the sewing project in the home, each ward brought the following to a display:

2 articles made at home from new material
2 articles remodeled or made over.

Awards were given in a manner similar to that of the bread, and very attractive and unusual articles were exhibited. The laundering project was also demonstrated. There were two laundered articles from each ward. A blanket that had been in use and laundered for fifteen years was displayed. Many articles that had been washed and ironed beautifully helped to show fine workmanship. This activity seemed to challenge the interest of everyone. Small prizes were given as an expression of appreciation for the efforts of the women and to encourage them. It was the feeling of the Work and Business stake leaders that the objectives of the project had been very satisfactorily attained. First, factual data to verify the general statements about present-day family life was supplied; second, women were helped to understand and evaluate their own work problems. Another very splendid piece of work accomplished in the Stake was in the field of health and home nursing. In November a Health and Home Nursing Convention was sponsored. Uniform programs were held in Aberdeen and Blackfoot and the subjects "Relief Society's Attitude Toward Home Nursing," "The Attitude of the County in the Past and Available Resources at Present," "Sore Throat and the Com-

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

mon Cold," "Fever and Contagion," and "Common Ailments," were discussed during the morning session. A graduate obstetrical nurse gave a demonstration on the care of the patient in the home. Important points covered in this demonstration were: the care of bed patient; the serving tray; important things to observe and report to the doctor; care of mother and new-born baby; contagious diseases; proper sterilization of equipment; suggestions for first-aid to cuts, burns, breaks, severe lacerations; suggestions for available government bulletins and literature.

Palmyra Stake

One of the interesting reports of the recent celebration of Anniversary Day came from the Palmyra Stake. An original pageant, "The Dawn of a New Day," written by Mrs. Othelia N. Huntington, was presented on March 17 by the Palmyra Stake Relief Society, with the Stake president directing. The pageant was in three episodes including ten scenes. The first episode depicted the conditions leading up to the organization of the Relief Society, the second its growth and development, the third the various phases of the Relief Society program and the Relief Society objective 100,000 members by the centennial anniversary in 1942. The pageant required 217 participants in costume, with a group of 57 Singing Mothers furnishing the music. The nine wards of the stake participated in furnishing this delightful entertainment. The pageant was presented in the Spanish Fork High School, where the stage setting, the light-

NOTES FROM THE FIELD

ing effects and the costumes all tended to make a most delightful entertainment. The attendance

429

at the pageant was estimated to have been more than six hundred people.

[THIS IS FIGURE: Black and white photograph showing a group of women in costume, labeled as "GUNNISON STAKE SINGING MOTHERS"]

Gunnison Stake

This picture is of a group of Singing Mothers from the Gunnison Stake. They are attired in the costume requested by the general organization of Singing Mothers. The organization of this fine group was perfected some time ago and the record of their splendid achievements has been most commendable. They have furnished musical programs for Genealogical meetings, Relief Society and Ward Conferences and for each of the Quarterly Conferences of the stake. They have visited and sung at the Manti Temple and have aided in special programs in Gunnison, responding to a special mission to sing at the Sacrament meetings in the wards. The appreciation of the mothers for this opportunity to serve has been shown by their faithful attendance at rehearsals and at the meetings and by a greatly increased membership in the chorus. The chorus has also tended to increase the attendance at meetings as the music offered was a very attractive feature.

Utah Stake

Utah Stake Relief Society, in keeping with the Church Beautification Program has launched a Beautification Project. That this project will create great interest and result in improved home surroundings there can be no question. The following suggestions and rules have been given:

1. Every Relief Society woman will endeavor to beautify her surroundings by planting trees, shrubs, flowers, lawn, or a vegetable garden, according to space and needs. She will endeavor to keep away weeds.

2. Every Relief Society woman will be a member of our Beautification Project, even if she is able to plant only one flower or keep weeds from growing on or around her premises.

3. Every Relief Society wom-

430

an who has plants of any kind will give or trade her surplus to another to assist in this Beautification Project. A Ward Relief Society Exchange will also be arranged.

4. A first and second prize will be given in each ward, in the month of September, for the most beautiful gardens and surroundings. Each ward will appoint a Ward Judging Committee who will visit each contestant once a month, or at special times when a contestant thinks her garden the most beautiful. Judging will be counted according to fine work done on each premise during the entire summer. Near the close of the summer the Ward Judging Committee will choose the five best surroundings in the ward. A stake committee will choose the first and second prize winners from

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

this group. Only Relief Society members are eligible for prizes. Every member of the Relief Society should be loyal to this Beautification Project and we trust that every woman will register to belong to the project and beautify her premises whether it be slight or great. Every member entering the contest for prizes must be registered by May 1, 1938. Every ward should have at least twenty registered prize contestants. The prizes will be given by the Utah Stake Relief Society. The first prize to each ward will be $3.00; the second prize to each ward will be $2.00. Special instruction for beautification was given by the Work and Business class leaders on the second Tuesdays of March and April. Other instruction meetings will be arranged.