Golden Anniversary of Manti Temple By J. B. Jennings IN May, fifty years ago, so the chronicler tells us, roads leading to Manti were crowded with the conveyances of those who were on their way to the dedication of the Manti Temple. They travelled in all sorts of outfits—in buckboards and buggies and prairie schooners—over roads that we would now hesitate' to venture forth upon in our shiny six cylinder models. They were coming to celebrate the completion of a task ten years in the doing—a task which had required infinite care and countless small sacrifices and a general willingness to lend a hand— the building of a temple upon a temple hill. On that spring morning fifty years ago the Temple must have stood forth, radiant, white and fair, in the bright sunlight, and the throng which crowded the grounds must have felt beauty and solemnity. Here was a shrine to their deepest conviction and a symbol of their innermost devotion, hewn out of the heart of a hill in a far-away land. The hill upon which the Temple stands could have been meant for no other purpose, and Brigham Young must have realized this, for on his first visit to the little settlement of Manti in 1850 he had said that one day a temple would stand upon the hill. Heber C. Kimball, his companion on this trip, went even further and prophesied that the temple should be built of rock taken from the hill itself. A quarter of a century passed, but men did not forget these words. On April 25, 1877, Brigham Young, his hair now white and his step slower, climbed the hill. He knelt upon the ground, and several hundred persons joined him at these services. His voice rose in prayer: "Wilt thou, O Lord, bless each one now before thee, and bless the ground, this Temple site, this hill, and the hills and valleys round about, and the waters, and the atmosphere, and the elements pertaining to this valley, that the same may be blessed and sanctified before the Lord...." He continued on, his words poetic, yet strong, like the stone that was to become a temple. After the prayer he further addressed those assembled in words befitting the leader of a people who had conquered a desert: "Now Bishops," he said, "if any person should inquire what wages are to be paid for work done on this Temple, let the answer be, 'Not one dime.' And when the Temple is completed we will work in God's holy house without inquiring what we are going to get, or who is going to pay us, but we will trust in the Lord for our reward, and He will not forget us." He also had a few words for the women. "We call upon the sisters also to render what assistance they can in this matter. They can do a great deal by way of encouraging their husbands and sons, and also by making clothing of various kinds for them, and in otherwise providing for them while they are working here."

Five days later the work began. In order to reach bedrock, on which the foundation would be laid, it was necessary to excavate to a depth of fifty feet or more at the east end of the building. Tunnels

396

were driven some twenty or thirty feet into the ground, and shorter tunnels were then made, forming a "T." In these tunnels were placed several hundred pounds of gunpowder. Before these charges were set off, notice was sent out to the surrounding towns and people came from far and near to witness the explosions. Two years were required to complete the excavation. On May 14, 1879, the cornerstones were laid. William H. Folsom was the architect in charge of the construction. John Taylor, President of the Twelve, laid the southeast cornerstone and Elder Lorenzo Snow of the Council of the Twelve offered the dedicatory prayer. We may judge of the intense interest displayed in the Temple, even at this early stage in its construction, by the fact that approximately 4000 persons witnessed these services. There now followed the actual building of the Temple. This was a colossal enterprise for the small communities comprising the Temple district to undertake, but they set about their task with great enthusiasm and determination. Constructed entirely through donation, it stands today an inspiring tribute to a faithful, thrifty, and self-sacrificing people. The women, heeding President Young's admonition at the dedication of the site, did everything in their power to further the cause. The first carpets were woven on looms in Sanpete County. Women of the various wards collected, cut, and dyed the rags and wove the carpets. At one time the Relief Society and Mutuals each contributed one hundred yards of carpeting. The sisters made cheese, quilts, clothes, towels, and many other articles to be given to the men who worked on the Temple.

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

The last stone was laid in the spring of 1888, and the completed Temple stood, a stately white symbol of Man's eternal quest for the Eternal, in quiet and solemn dignity above the shining valley. The public dedication took place on May 21 and services continued for three days attended by approximately 1700 persons each day. Although the program was not to begin until 11 a. m., the Temple grounds were crowded at an early hour. Rain had threatened the night before, but the morning was clear and radiant. The dedicatory prayer was offered by Elder Lorenzo Snow of the Council of the Twelve. The choir rendered the dedication hymn. There then followed addresses by several of the leading men of the Church and by brethren who had important parts in building the Temple. As its closing number the choir sang Mozart's beautiful "Hymn of Praise."

Glorious is Thy name, Almighty Lord,
All the angels stand round about thy throne;
Let all nations bow before Thee,
And declare Thy wondrous works.
We praise Thee, we give thanks to Thee,
We adore Thee, we glorify Thee.
Lord we adore Thee, we bless Thee.
Lord we thank Thee for Thy great glory.
Heaven is Thy throne and earth is Thy footstool,
Thou art King over all the world.
Glorious is Thy name, O Lord,
Blessing, and honor, be to God
Forever, and evermore.

Apostle John Henry Smith offered the benediction. On May 28, 1888, the Manti Temple was opened for ordinance work. Four marriages for time and eternity were performed the first day.

GOLDEN ANNIVERSARY OF MANTI TEMPLE  397

During 1888, 55,838 ordinances were administered, and almost every year has seen a greater interest in the work of the Temple. Daniel H. Wells was the first President of the Manti Temple. He was succeeded in 1891 by Anthon H. Lund. President Lund was appointed to preside over the European Mission in 1893 and John D. T. McAllister took his place. President McAllister was released in 1906 and Lewis C. Anderson was appointed to the position. Robert D. Young is now President of the Manti Temple, having been set apart to that office on December 30, 1933.

The Golden Anniversary of the Manti Temple will be observed June 14 to 19. Elaborate preparations for a fitting commemoration of the occasion of the dedication of the Temple have been underway for some months under the general chairmanship of L. R. Anderson, former President of South Sanpete Stake. A feature of the commemorating exercises will be the daily presentation of the dramatic pageant, "The Hearts of the Children," under the direction of the author, Principal M. E. Smith of the South Sevier Stake Seminary.