Granville

Preview of Lessons
For 1938-39

THEOLOGY DEPARTMENT

The past year's Theology lessons, "The Ministry of the Savior," according to all reports were not only a benefit but a joy to the women of the Relief Society. This is a matter for congratulation to all those whose fine efforts were responsible for this success.

It appears, therefore, both proper and desirable that the lessons for 1938-39 be a continuation of the New Testament including The Acts, Epistles, Travels of the Apostles, etc., with some biographical history. These lessons, like last year's, offer material for artistic enrichment and we feel assured they will be received with equal enthusiasm. They are as follows:

1. The Mediterranean World In the Days of the Apostles.
2. The Mediterranean World in the Days of the Apostles. (Contd.)
3. These Twelve Jesus Sent Forth.
4. These Twelve Jesus Sent Forth. (Contd.)
5. These Twelve Jesus Sent Forth. (Cont.)
6. The Anointing of the Spirit.
7. Peter, the Fisherman.
8. Peter, Disciple and Apostle.
9. Peter, The Head of the Church.

Recommended List of Books for Relief Society Theology Lessons

A. B. Bruce?The Training of the Twelve. Harper and Brothers have issued an edition of this book for $1.00. The edition used in the lessons was the Fourth, Revised and Improved. (1889).

H. E. Dana?New Testament World, $2.00 ? Baptist Sunday School Board. 161 8th Ave., Nashville, Tenn. This edition appeared after the lessons were written.

F. J. Mueller?Christ's Twelve. Bruce Publishing Co., Milwaukee, Wis., 1931. $1.25.

A. T. Robertson?Epochs in the Life of Simon Peter. $1.75. Chas. Scribner's Sons. New York.

The above books will all prove useful. If absolutely restricted to the purchase of one book the one by Bruce should be chosen. The following books will provide valuable supplementary material:

Chas. R. Brown?These Twelve. Harper and Bros. New York. $1.00.
Robert Freeman?What About the Twelve? Doubleday, Doran and Co. Garden City, New York. $1.75.
W. Mackintosh Mackay ? The Men Whom Jesus Made. Harper & Bros. New York. $1.00.

These books may be purchased through Deseret Book Co., 44 East South Temple St., Salt Lake City, Utah.

VISITING TEACHER DEPARTMENT

The Visiting Teachers are the direct contact between the home and the Relief Society. Their work is of inestimable value to the organization and to the women of the Church. The faithfulness, loyalty and good service of this group is deserving of the highest commendation. The General Board believe, however, that many of the wom-

LESSONS

en visited are not acquainted with the worthwhile educational program carried on by the Society, and the opportunities afforded for self-improvement and personal enjoyment through participation in Relief Society activities. It is one of the duties of the Visiting Teachers to carry this information into the homes, and to do their best to arouse such an interest in the hearts and minds of the women in the ward that they will come to the weekly meetings. Special effort is now being made to increase membership and thus have more women participate and benefit from the Relief Society program. It is therefore requested that special attention be given to acquainting the women visited with the programs of the Theology, Work and Business, Literary and Social Service Departments; that these be commented on as much as good judgment will permit, showing the attractiveness and value of the work. The stake leader at the Union meeting should acquaint the ward class leaders with the programs of all departments. The special spiritual messages to be taken into the homes for 1938-39 deal with "Jesus' Teachings As They Affect Personality." The purpose of these messages is to assist women to improve their personalities through understanding and applying the teachings of the Master along these lines. Strength of personality and character are essential if people are to be happy and successful in the world today. Many men and women find that their lives are far from satisfactory. They are filled with fears, anger, hates, suspicion, littleness and often failure which cause mental suffering and per-

425

sonality and character defects. The solution of these problems may be found in the teachings of the Master. If individuals would conduct themselves exactly along the lines taught by Jesus they would be able to make the most of their lives, and would be strong, healthy characters with healthy personalities. The problems of personality that face men and women everywhere are of such vital importance that the study of the factors which contribute to their solution is justifiable. The messages for 1938-39 are as follows:

1. Faith.
2. Fear.
3. Anger.
4. Sensitivity of the Needs of Others.
5. Ye Are the Salt of the Earth.
6. Sources of Power.
7. Cast the Beam from Thine Own Eye.
8. Obedience.
9. Healthy Mental Attitudes.

No special text books, other than the scriptures, are being suggested for this course.

LITERARY DEPARTMENT

The Literary course for 1938-39 is "The Advance of the Novel." The text to be used will be The Advance of the English Novel, by William Lyon Phelps. The ultimate objective of the course is: to assist in the establishment of good taste in the selection of novels read by our sisters, through showing the development of the novel and its present position in the field of literature and by giving guidance in what constitutes a worthy novel. The books to be used will be

426

available at the Deseret Book Store, Salt Lake City, after July 20, 1938.

List of books:
The Advance of the English Novel, William Lyon Phelps  $1.25
Robinson Crusoe, Daniel Defoe  1.00
The Talisman, Sir Walter Scott  1.00
Lorna Doone, Richard Doddridge Blackmore  1.00
City of Bells, Elizabeth Goudge  2.00

Where the Relief Societies send for the whole set, enclosing cash (and sales tax in Utah) with order, the books will be $6.00 per set. If any of the books are available in your community without buying them, the purchase price of individual books will be as listed above.

SOCIAL SERVICE DEPARTMENT

"The Psychology of Personal Adjustment" is the title of the subject matter to be treated in the Social Service lessons for 1938-39. During the past three years the lessons in this department have dealt with some very interesting problems of community life. The course this coming year will consider problems centered largely upon the individual. "When a woman knows how she is made she knows better how to act."?John Macy. The aim of this course is to help every woman who studies these lessons have a better understanding of herself. It aims to help her make up her mind to revolu-

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

tionize her daily habits if they are detrimental to herself or to those with whom she lives or comes in contact. In other words it aims to help her build a better personality; to live the more abundant life. To make these lessons effective it will require some resolution and much effort, but the result will be worth while. The Magazine is the only text book for this course. Following are the titles of each lesson:

1. Habit Formation and Revision.
2. The Problem of Growing Older.
3. Do My Emotions Hinder or Help Me?
4. Should I be Afraid.
5. Psychology of Physical Health.
6. How to Get Along With People.
7. Marital Adjustments.
8. On Being a Good Mother-in-Law.

At the end of each lesson there are references for further study. We do not recommend the purchase of these books, but hope the class leaders may find access to some of them through libraries, public or private schools. Some magazine references are cited which will be found in your community, no doubt. We bespeak for you all a most interesting and profitable year if every effort is made on the part of the teachers and members to have it so.