Our Father Knows
SOME MORE THOUGHTS ADDRESSED TO THE MOTHERS OF ISRAEL
By Leah D. Widtsoe

The restored Gospel of Jesus Christ teaches definitely that the possession of a mortal body is essential for man's eternal progress. Therefore the proper care of the body becomes a sacred trust to each human being whose spirit is a literal descendant of our Father in Heaven. He designs that His earth children should be possessed of strong minds and clean healthy bodies as a basis for the growth of each individual soul. In the first chapter of the first book of the Bible He definitely instructs the first man, Adam, regarding his diet. During the intervening ages, periodically, necessary instructions regarding man's physical well-being have been given. The children of Israel were not only told how to guard their health but for a time the actual food was provided in the "manna from heaven." It is but an added testimony to the truth of the restored Gospel that a new Law of Health should be given to guide men on their earth journey in these modern times. This came as a direct message from on High, to be accepted and obeyed literally, for man's good. And how we need that Guide today!

In just one phase of the subject treated by the Word of Wisdom, that of drug addiction, let a few facts wake us up to the alarming conditions all about us. Every year in the United States, well over one billion dollars is spent on the so-called "dope racket" and by "dope" is meant the more harmful drugs, opium and derivatives which deaden the nerves and demoralize the soul. That sum does not include the many billions of dollars spent for alcohol, tobacco, tea, coffee and other less harmful drugs in such general use today. These substances are all taken for their effect on the nerves and brain. In no sense may they be classed as foods for they actually tear down the body instead of building it, or renewing its powers. Dr. Henry Smith Williams, an eminent scientist and M. D. has explained how these drugs enslave the victim. They are: "the nicotine of tobacco, the caffeine and theine of coffee and tea, the alcohol of beer, wine, and distilled liquors; cocaine, a product of the coca plant; opiates derived from the poppy; hashish, from 'Cannabis indica' and allied plants; and a group of hypnotic and analgesic drugs either of natural origin, as the bromides and chloral hydrate, or of synthetic development, as aspirin, veronal, and a long list of somewhat less familiar products. Of the entire list of such drugs, it may be said that, in general terms, they fulfill a common function. They are props for the unstable nervous system. A healthy organism does not require any of them, under any circumstances." All of these drugs are in common use today and all are harmful to the nerves and brain. One is peculiarly threatening because it is a hardy weed that can be grown in anyone's back yard in almost every state of our Union. This is the deadly

402

hashish or marijuana. The drug made from this plant is as old as history and the misery caused by its human use would fill with tragedy more books than have ever been written. The peculiar danger today is that unscrupulous dealers (fiends in men's clothing!) are selling it and thereby enslaving our youth of high school and college age who should be in the full flower of their mental and bodily vigor. It is estimated that there are over 300,000 addicts in our country today, mostly young people, and the number is increasing at an alarming rate. The fiends who sell it frequent high schools, mix it with tobacco in cigarettes, call it joy smoke, or love weed, and frequently give them away at first because it is known that almost the first smoke creates an immediate lust and then later the price may soar as high as 50c for each cigarette. The unsuspecting victim at first experiences a glorious sensation, but soon develops a delirious rage during which the most unspeakable crimes may be committed and of which the addict seems to be entirely unconscious. Prolonged use causes mental deterioration and eventual insanity. Our young people should be made aware that there is one sure prevention of this hideous evil and others resulting from any kind of drug addiction: Never take your first drink and you will never want a second; never take your first smoke and you will never run the risk of getting one that may be doped with marijuana; never tamper with any of the foods or drinks known to contain drugs, even the supposed harmless ones (such as coca-cola or any caffein containing drink sold at soda fountains), for the use of the milder ones produces an appetite that calls for more and often stronger ones. This is the sequence of

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

drug addiction as may be attested by all who are familiar with its bondage. Experts agree that never since history began has the consumption of drugs been so universal as it is today. Mothers, be on your guard!

Our Heavenly Father understood these conditions with which we are surrounded today for we are told: "Behold, verily, thus saith the Lord unto you: In consequence of evils and designs which do and will exist in the hearts of conspiring men in the last days, I have warned you and forewarn you, by giving unto you this word of wisdom by revelation.... " There are those amongst us who would indulge their appetites and who contend that this Word was not given as a command but merely as a suggestion or counsel which we are at liberty to heed or disregard. Certainly, that is true, man's free agency must always be operative, but could any instruction from on High be given in a more scientific or pedagogical manner? Man is so constituted that to be forbidden to do a thing is often taken as an invitation to try that very thing. In this wise Law our Father tells us that it is given "not by commandment or constraint but by revelation" "for a principle with a promise," "Showing forth the order and will of God, in the temporal salvation of all saints in the last days." This law is given solely for our protection that we may have joy and freedom from pain and suffering throughout our entire lives, not in any sense to satisfy the whim of a jealous God who gives unreasonable demands that must be obeyed. However, could any command be more truly binding on us than one which comes by revelation and the word of wisdom in which we are made to understand that it shows the order and will of

OUR FATHER KNOWS

God? Indeed, this method is much more potent than any number of "Thou shalt nots"! In this regard a man of science, Dr. Williams, has said: "I must admit myself so much out of step with the times as still to be a believer in personal liberty of choice for every man, so long as his decision does not infringe the like liberty of his neighbor. My chief quarrel with the drugs that enslave is that they do enslave—that they take away freedom of choice—so that every man (or woman) who becomes an addict renounces, usually forever, the inestimable privilege of being master of himself.... The urge of the 'reformer' is not in my make-up. I belong to no societies; take part in no collective propaganda for any cause. But I have the compassion for human weakness and infirmity that is the natural endowment of one who has been more than fifty years a physician, and who comes of a long line of medical ancestry, coupled with the instinctive impulse, however fatuous, to pass on the lessons of experience to the younger generation. Not by way of dogmatic mandate, however; only by way of sympathetic admonition." Thus a wise teacher on earth suggests the method of a wise Father in Heaven.

The full possession of bodily health is promised all who obey this law: they "shall run and not be weary and shall walk and not faint." This is most desirable especially since physical well-being is often basic for mental, moral and spiritual health. These are indeed priceless treasures to be won and held by all who will obey God's law. The additional rewards promised for this obedience are precious beyond measure: they "shall find wisdom and great treasures of knowledge, even hidden treasures!" It is great

403

to have knowledge; it is a far greater thing to have wisdom. To possess the power to gain knowledge, increasingly, to seek out and use even hidden treasures of knowledge for one's own well-being as well as that of fellowman is truly a God-like gift! This great possession is the birthright of all who obey this temporal law, the Word of Wisdom. The final blessing is equally desirable: "And I, the Lord, give unto them a promise, that the destroying angel shall pass by them, as the children of Israel, and not slay them." Herein lies "Church security" and only so may it be obtained—by full and cheerful obedience to all the laws of God. Here our Father gives us a definite promise. We are told in a former Section of the Doctrine and Covenants: "And again, I say unto you, I give unto you a new commandment, that you may understand my will concerning you; or, in other words, I give unto you directions how you may act before me, that it may turn to you for your salvation. I, the Lord, am bound when ye do what I say; but when ye do not what I say, ye have no promise." So we all may understand clearly, these priceless blessings are ours only when we live for them. It is a great comfort to know that in our day the Lord has given us a direct message for individual health and happiness. Let the purpose of this message be well understood. In no sense can obedience thereto curtail our privileges or diminish our pleasures. In fact, the exact opposite is the case, for freedom from the bondage of drugs, and a strict adherence to the physiological truths contained therein, adds zest and joy to all the experiences of youth and age until life may become one long happy journey of self-realization and service to fellowman.

404

The Mothers of Israel must open their ears and their hearts to receive this message and make it operative in their homes, that their children may rise up and call them blessed. Our Heavenly Father knows our needs and our problems. He has spoken to each and every

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

one of us for our comfort and well-being. Shall we listen and progress, or sell our birthright for the empty baubles of fashion and momentary excitement? Well may the question be asked today: "Who's On the Lord's Side, Who?"