Women We Should Know Ruth Harwood—Artist-Poet By Ramona W. Cannon sensitive and imaginative little girl with an unusual awareness of the beauty which surrounded her. She spent her youth in Salt Lake City, with occasional visits to Utah County. Color, contour, skies, mountains, lakes, trees and flowers, animal life—all affected her growing nature. Daughter of a sympathetic mother and an artist-father, Ruth was encouraged to express, both in poetry and in drawing or painting, the beauty in which she delighted. One of the joys of her childhood. Was to listen to tales of the Pioneers, narrated by her grandparents, or others of their day. She, herself, is a great-granddaughter of Willard Richards, whose influence and judgment were of great value to the Church in the historic period of the settlement of Utah. These dual influences of her youth, her desire to express beauty, and her subconscious response to her pioneer background with its ideals and its achievement in the fields of the New, were important in the shaping of her life. In her book, "Temple Builders," she says: "O Pioneers,... Surely somewhere there must be other plains to cross, and other mountains to climb which can challenge and use all that is best in us as your Gospel did in you." IT was in the field of art that Miss Harwood was to discover those unknown mountains and_ plains which her striving spirit longed to conquer in its search for truth, Even as a young girl, she was a pioneer among western artists in her use of vivid and vibrating colors, such as have since become the vogue. But far overshadowing this achievement is her later strikingly original work in creative designs which symbolize the aspirations of the human soul. This concept of presenting pictorially the universal spiritual struggle of man, and the method of working it out in black, white, and various tones of gray, came as the result of a long spiritual-artistic quest. Her groping began in Greenwich Village where she came to feel that the "turmoil of ambition and competition in which most artists whirled was a derangement, a disease, rather than a condition to be desired." (Temple Builders.) She sensed, as she expresses it, that much of the modern art is the fruit of discord rather than of the harmony which she was seeking. During these years she took her Master's Degree in Art at Berkeley, won the annual poetry prize there, and later studied in New York, Paris, and Italy. She won a national American poetry prize for a sonnet on Browning, illustrated a volume of verse for Miss Ruth St. Denis, and illustrated many of her own charming lyrics. One which has been particularly well liked appears as the frontispiece in this issue of the Magazine. It is also used as the frontispiece in her collection of poems, "The Lyric Road." A number of her lyrics have appeared in RUTH HARWOOD 377 RUTH HARWOOD both American and British Anthologies. In New York she became acquainted with Mary Carolyn Davies, Edwin Markham, Kahlil Gibran and other American poets. Through some of these friends she met Ruth St. Denis, pioneer in the field of the dance in America, and an earnest student of art in relation to life. This was an inspirational experience for the western girl, still engaged in her quest, for Miss St. Denis seemed to make articulate to the seeker the very ideas which were struggling in her own heart for expression. In "Temple Builders,' Ruth summarizes Miss St. Denis' interpretation of the mission of art as follows: "The lesser art of the world is for utility and pleasure, but the greater art is used for healing and spiritual unfoldment. The lesser arts express our longings and our lacks, but the 378 divine art radiates our glorious affirmation of life." Thenceforward, Ruth Harwoad's art history was a graduation from the realm of the personal and the emotional to the realm of the universal and: the spiritual, and her flowering was swift and true. ACH day Ruth spends time in ° meditation, reaching into that elusive borderland where the lower consciousness meets the higher consciousness of inspiration. She has the ability to capture the overtones of spiritual song, the ineffable shapes of thoughts and dreams and aspirations and to translate them into concrete form for the enlightenment of others. It is this quality which makes her a pioneer in her own field of art. Her poetry, prose, and design compositions, are all phases of her philosophy of divine "affirmation of life." She has a series of designs representing the eternal spiritual pil-. Grimage of humanity. In one of these we see man, standing a tip-toe on a mountain height, just at the moment when he succeeds in pressing aside the intricate webs of time and space, atid catches the majestic vision of the white radiating light of the Eternal. Without describing all the designs, we might summarize briefly their philosophy, as expressed by the artist herself in "Toward the Light," or in conversation regarding her work. Aspiring man _ passes through the stage of "greed for earthly possessions;" then comes 'the interlude of inward transformation," followed by "the chrysalis unfoldment which brings the first faint striving for the Light;" then the slow upward ascent. "Each man must find his own way of life which leads him truly upward toward the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Light." Lesser spirits become confused and overbalanced by the ills of life; great spirits do not lose their poise, but maintain a steadfast upward course. The upward path is the path of universal love. "By the glorious Jaw of spirit, all human circumstance can be transmuted into fuel for the burning of this divine fire' of enlightenment and progress. Was not this latter ideal the source of the Pioneers' strength during their persecutions and drivings? Accepted in the proper spirit, every hardship and trial meant spiritual growth. God would "sanctify" to them their "deepest distress." Miss Harwood uses numerous constant symbols in her work. There is white representing the Light of the Eternal—light, untouched and pure—behind all creation. Various designs indicate the pattern of time and space in its varying manifestations against this White Light of the Eternal. There is the life-giving ° sun, with its radiating balanced pattern, the rays representing Truth, and the concentric circles symbolizing Love. Black represents the dark or evil of life from which the soul is attempting to escape into a vision of the White Light. These and other elements are used in a stylized technique of rhythmical lines and geometric figures, all of which are inspired by the underlying patterns found in the art work of Nature. Over and over again Nature uses rhythmic and balanced patterns in her myriad designs—the tides of the sea, insects, forms of snowflakes, veining of leaves, flowers, the decorative pattern and the form of every sea-shell, man with his own beautiful balance, the poplar tree, with limbs upraised in worship. In one of Miss Harwood's designs, the lower soul is struggling RUTH HARWOOD to reach the higher, and the higher is represented by a small circle in which a picture is dimly outlined. This conception was inspired by a droplet of rain water, reflecting the surrounding landscape. All these patterns of line and shape, which are part of divine truth and eternal design, suggest the media through which Ruth Harwood pictures the spiritual pilgrimage of man. The human figures in these designs, as they leave behind them the more earthy aspects of life and attain higher realms of truth, are endowed with emotional qualities' of lightness, joy, victory, uplift in the long ascent. Some of these compositions have now been made into lantern slides, which, when projected, give an added effect of luminosity to the White Light of the Eternal, and a more dramatic contrast between this and the dark patterns. Mrs. Claire Stewart Boyer, who has given sympathetic reviews of "Temple Builders", comments with interpretations and quotations suitable to the atmosphere of the pictures. Such an hour is an upbuilding spiritual experience for those who participate. Miss HARWOOD resides with her partner, Miss Vere L. Matthews, in a hill-top cottage in Berkeley which they have converted into a workshop, The Guilders Publishing Center, for the preparation of their own products. Here reigns the ideal of the old guilds, the joy of a7 workmanship in every phase of artistic expression. Here, too, another pioneering project is being evolved, as these two young women print and publish and distribute their own work. This makes it possible to preserve their artistic integrity, and to produce with a sense of freedom from the restraints which so often hamper those who must please certain publishers or a certain public. Their independence has been surprisingly successful, and they build their own clientele without middlemen. Here have been created copies of "The Lyric Road"; "Toward the Light" with its pilgrimage designs and the poetry of their interpreta- 'tions; and "Temple Builders', the autobiographical book in prose which explains her approach to art. She has worked on this book for fifteen years and has set forth in it much of her soul and her mind. Miss Harwood confesses to a frequent nostalgia for the mountains and valleys of her home-place and for her old friends with their sympathetic understanding of her work. So she returns to Salt Lake every year or so. She is now here giving some art and literary programs and teaching University Extension and private classes. She feels that one owes a debt of gratitude to one's birthplace, and she has always had the desire to open for others the vistas of beauty which have given her so much joy.

A thing of beauty is a joy for ever; its loveliness increases; it will never pass into nothingness; but still will keep a bower quiet for us, and a sleep full of sweet dreams, and health and quiet breathing.