What Think You?
By Glenn G. Smith

Our Father in Heaven has given us the plan of salvation. In this plan are all the commandments He expects us to keep. However, we have our own free agency to do as we choose. We are not compelled to do anything contrary to our own desires. Neither are we compelled to be perfect in our lives, but through humble obedience to the laws of God we can make perfection of life our ultimate accomplishment. It seems strange that we should ever consider the laws of God lightly, when we have such wonderful examples in the Bible and the Book of Mormon of how blessed and happy people were, who walked by faith and kept the commandments. The best reasons for keeping the laws of God are that He has asked us to do so and because we want the joy that comes in well-doing. He has said that one-tenth of all we earn belongs to Him, and that we should pay it to the Church, that there might be meat in His house. By paying our tithing and by keeping all the commandments of God, we are overcoming our selfish desires and are making our lives more serviceable to those around us. When we pay our tithes and offerings honestly and sincerely, we are less inclined to find fault with our Bishop, the President of our Stake or the General Authorities of the Church. An honest tithepayer sees in his bishop and all those called to preside over him, men of God whom he can love, honor and trust. While he knows that they are subject to human mistakes, he also knows the mistakes they make are of the head and not of the heart. He has confidence in their integrity, in their devotion to duty and their willingness to serve, that they may help God bestow blessings upon the people. An honest tithepayer does not avoid meeting his leaders; he does not make excuses to them for not being a better man; he does not complain how they do their duty nor how they live. He sees in their lives the things that are worth while, and the urge swells within his own breast to be as fine as they are. So while the best reason for paying tithing is that God has commanded us to do so, the next best reason is that those who pay one-tenth of their income to the Lord have a conscience free of offense toward God and those God has called to preside over them. With a clear conscience one can enjoy friendship with fellowmen, and be of real service to them.