Virginia Kirkus, former editorial writer for McCall's and Pictorial Review, runs a service through which she furnishes bookshops and libraries candid analysis of books before publication.  
KATE M. BARKER  Second Counselor
JULIA A. F. LUND  General Secretary and Treasurer

THE GENERAL BOARD

Annie B. Knight  Nettie D. Bradford  Donna Durrant Sorensen
Emma A. Empey  Ida P. Beal  Vivian R. McConkie
Annie Wells Cannon  Marcia K. Howells  Leda T. Jensen
Lalene H. Hart  Emeline Y. Nebeker  Beatrice F. Stevens
Cora L. Bennion  Janet M. Thompson  Rae B. Barker
Amy Prothero Evans  Belle S. Spafford  Nellie O. Parker
Rosannah C. Irvine

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

Belle S. Spafford  Editor
Louise Y. Robison  Manager
Amy Brown Lyman  Assistant Manager




Vol. XXV  JUNE, 1938  No. 6

Editorials

Anti Liquor-Tobacco Campaign

Love of home and a desire for fine children has always been strong among Latter-day Saints. The ambition of every Latter-day Saint mother is that her children will grow and develop so as to enjoy a fullness of life?optimum health, high ideals, self-control, reasonable financial security, an appreciation and love of the beautiful and cultural. Anything which stands in the way of achieving this goal is not merely avoided but challenges intensive and intelligent effort in its alleviation.

The constantly increasing use of liquor and tobacco strikes at the very foundation of abundant living. Shame, illness, death, inefficiency, unspeakable sorrow, suffering and degradation are offered in exchange for momentary stimulation, exhilaration, and all too often for mere social approbation. The Hon. Morris Sheppard in an address published in the Congressional Record of January 15, 1938, after citing many facts and figures draws the following conclusion: "The amount of whiskey in the United States last year (1937) marks an all-time high in American history. This indicates that a larger volume of consumption is anticipated by the liquor trade than ever before." Tobacco consumption is increasing at an equally rapid rate. Huge financial interests are back of the traffic, vigorously pushing the sale of these injurious products. Reliable authorities estimate that in the four years of repeal since 1933 the sum of $75,000,000 has been expended for promotion of alcoholic liquors in newspaper advertising alone, not including magazines and other periodicals, radio, billboard or other forms of publicity. The seeming sanctions of literature, the theatre, song and story are far reaching in their influence. Only the most diligent and enlightened effort can hope to contend with such influences and prevent these evils from making inroads upon the

422

health, efficiency and happiness of our families. The Church, thoroughly aware of the situation and aroused to its seriousness, has launched a campaign for the purpose of education and the correction of existing conditions. A General Committee, composed of a member from the Quorum of Twelve Apostles, one from the Seven Presidents of Seventy, a representative from the Department of Education, and one from each of the Auxiliaries, has been appointed by the First Presidency to organize and plan the campaign. Under the direction of the Priesthood of the Church similar anti liquor-tobacco committees are being organized in every stake and ward. These committees keep in touch with and maintain the cooperation of all Priesthood groups, the Department of Education, the Relief Society, Sunday School, Y. M. M. I. A., Y. W. M. I. A., and Primary Association, thus securing harmony, completeness and effectiveness in the campaign. It is the ambition of the Church to reach every individual within its bounds whether they be active or in-

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

active. The time-honored missionary method?that of individual contact?is to be used as the basic method of conducting the campaign. Every Priesthood quorum is to be responsible for its own members. Where it is necessary and wise, quorum officers may ask for and receive help outside the quorum. Women, young people, children, etc., are to be contacted by auxiliary and special workers. Leaflets, folders, pamphlets, report forms, films, slides, etc., will be utilized in an effort to touch the hearts and wills and to establish right attitudes and conduct among our people with regard to the use of liquor and tobacco. The mothers of the Church are deeply concerned about the well-being of mankind, particularly the youth; they ardently desire that home and family life be unimpaired by any destructive influence. Thoroughly in sympathy with the campaign we urge the women both as an organization and as individuals to cooperate with the General, Stake and Ward committees in their efforts to alleviate this increasing evil.