Utilizing Local Resources
By William Peterson
Director Extension Service, Utah State Agricultural College
(Conference Address)

I know of no group of people with whom I meet where I would rather attempt to put over a project than with the Relief Society of the Mormon Church. I represent the Extension Service of the Agricultural College. Our program and work extends over the entire state, but in every county and in almost every community we work through the Relief Society in putting over the work we are doing, and we have the cooperation and support of the Relief Society workers in the county and community programs.

I am going to attempt to tell you some of the real facts about a few of the problems that we must meet if we are to go forward in the State of Utah and in the surrounding states. I wonder if you have ever tried to give serious consideration to why we came to Utah. Of course, there was the seeking of religious freedom, but in addition, there was an opportunity to establish homes and make a living. Land and water were found here. To begin with, probably the realization that we were living in a semi-desert was not as definitely before us as at present. We do live in a semi-desert and most cultivated plants will not mature without water in addition to rainfall. The rainfall is light, humidity is low, and even in the better valleys the rainfall is only about half that necessary for maturing plants.

I remember, as a lad, hearing people talk regarding the richness and abundance found in the soils occupying the valleys in Utah and Idaho. The preachers took the stand that our soils were so rich that they would last forever. I am sure some of our communities have gone on ever since with that thought in mind, but we are now confronted with problems in the use of these soils in order to determine whether they are going to be continually productive.

The best and most outstanding resource we have in the state of Utah is that parcel of land we are cultivating. I say parcel of land. Why? There are 52,500,000 acres in the State of Utah, outside of the lakes, and after 90 years of settlement we can boast that we have 1,324,000 acres under cultivation—only 2.6 per cent. In addition to that we have plowed about 480,000 acres which are used for dry farming, but the total acreage from which we are extracting cultivated crops is less than two million in the State of Utah.

Have we reached our growth? It is rather striking that no appreciable new acres have been added to the farm lands of Utah in 20 years. Some of us believe we must expand. The land we are plowing, when considered in its entirety, is going gradually down in production. We are extracting less from it each year. The records I have collected in meetings in 26 counties of the state in the last three months give the testimony of the people themselves, that our production of crops has gone down about 25 per cent. Our income from crops has gone down twelve to fifteen million dollars as compared with that received a decade or so ago. The annual income from agricultural crops, livestock and livestock products from 1920 to 1930 was approximately sixty to sixty-eight million dollars. Since 1931 it has been only from thirty to forty-eight million dollars, and in the meantime our indebtedness has increased. In 1910 the farm mortgage debt recorded on the lands of Utah was approximately seven and one-half million dollars. In 1937 the recorded mortgage debt was approximately forty-five million dollars.

I should like to appeal to you to consider the soil we have as a heritage that must be preserved for ourselves and those who come after us. It is a heritage in which the fertility must be kept up—a heritage that must continue to produce and give us a satisfying living. The soil of this state is our greatest resource. Many of us think of it as only commonplace. We are treating it as though there were plenty of it. Many farming methods are a process of mining the soil, apparently

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

with the feeling that nature will replace whatever has been mined out. After ninety years of cultivation and scarcely more than three per cent of the total land plowed, we should consider the cultivated acres as a precious heritage that must be preserved. If we are to continue to live in this area and grow, we must increase the cultivated area. The good soils in these valleys are our future and our living.

In order to preserve the soil, we must give consideration to the natural resources about us. The report from the Natural Resources Board indicates we are extracting the phosphorus from the soils of the nation about thirty times as fast as we are replacing it, and our production is going down accordingly. Land values have fallen off in proportion to the lost fertility. Available plant food must be maintained and all available fertilizer used.

The next most precious resource we have is water. There is not a balance between the good land we have and the water available. Five or six million acres of land in the State of Utah are good enough to cultivate and continue production. Apparently there is not enough water to cultivate that amount, but our present use of water has not been the most economical. The history of the use of water in Utah, as we look back over the years of its development, is strikingly interesting. It has been the very life blood of our agricultural existence. We have made the supreme exertion in diversion dams, storage reservoirs, and the building of canals, and out on the ditch people have fought most intensely over the water rights. The most striking thing is that after that unusual struggle—a veritable battle for the proper allocation of water—when water is finally conveyed to one's farm it is not always economically used. It is often wasted in the irrigation process. Yes, worse than wasted, because we use the water to wash away the cream of the soil. The high nutriment and the high food value appear in the upper few inches of the soil, and careless irrigation can easily wash that material away. As a result we are destroying a resource, and we are cutting down our incomes because of it.

In Weber and Davis counties last year, through the Agricultural Conservation program, we offered the farmers a certain payment in order that all water might be measured on all crops and used in the best way we know how to use water. The stipulation required that the water must be measured on each crop; that not more than six acre inches should be used in each irrigation and there must be no erosion. The number of irrigations was not limited. Records of yields on these farms were kept and the index of one season's work indicates that above normal yields were produced with considerable less water than is ordinarily applied.

The reason I emphasize water as a waste of natural resources, is that if we can spread the water economically over a larger area, we can make more homes, which is the growing need of this state at the present time. Probably some of us have not realized how dry this state is, as a whole. We are told that 60 per cent of the state's area does not have enough rainfall to produce permanent streams, and the other sections only about half enough. Most of the area cultivated requires from one acre foot to three acre feet of water per year in order to satisfactorily produce ordinary crops. Without

363

this great natural resource, we could not live here. We must learn to preserve water, to extend it to the largest economic application, and adopt irrigation practices that will build our soils rather than destroy them.

There are several specific needs that should be remembered which would add to our water resources in Utah, if we are to accomplish what we desire. We are told that only 40 per cent of the water diverted from the streams ever reaches the land. Measurements indicate that only from 12 to 35 per cent of the water that is put on the land is actually used by the growing plants. Therefore, a more economic practice is necessary. At present, as precious as water is, we allow great quantities of our flood waters to run down and go to waste. This water is money in our locality. It is wealth. It means the possibility of new homes. Therefore, if we are going to grow, we must save that water which is now going to waste. I hope to live long enough to see that even the Church will advocate that the waste of water is both sinful and immoral. If we are to live and grow in this arid region, water must be completely used. The water which is now going to waste in the winter flow and during the flood season must be preserved in reservoirs. A more economic use of underground water must be accomplished. Then, we have this great last resource before us—the Colorado River. Everyone should interest himself in the possibility of the new lands which might be irrigated from the Colorado River, both by irrigation within the Colorado basin and by trans-mountain diversion of water to the large valleys over the divide.

364

Probably the next item that comes to us as a resource is the range. I should like to take you back for a moment to the time of settlement in this locality. You know of many homes that were established on a small tract of land from which a satisfied living could not be extracted, but the intention of the home maker was that part of the living should be taken from the livestock on the range and part from work on the farm. Distress has come to many families of the state because the range has gone down in its production, and employment on the farm has been taken away by large machinery. If we are going to get the most out of our natural resources, we must preserve and protect the range. Seven and one-half million acres of the range are in the Forest Reserves, and about 25 million acres in public domain, all of which is now under supervision. If we would apply to this thing a larger measurement, we would rather be led to the conclusion that the land we are cultivating is only about sufficient to produce winter forage which would allow complete utilization of the range. Rehabilitating and preserving the range is as vital in the State of Utah as preserving the fertility on the lands we are cropping.

Probably there is no land we have in the State of Utah more important than the water-shed land. This is the natural reservoir that feeds our summer streams, and must be protected. About nine million acres are considered fundamentally important for water shed protection. About six million acres of this amount are in the Forest Service, but there are still approximately three million acres that are either out in the open or in private ownership. The fact that a lot of this land is in private holdings

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

does not seem to have helped materially. The Forest Service has other items of interest to us. Of the seven and one-half million acres in the forest, a little over four million acres are timber land. The Forest Service tells us there are 7,120,000,000 board feet in the standing timber of the forest lands in the state. It is estimated that this timber would yield 86 million board feet annually and maintain. At present we are cutting about 30 to 35 million board feet annually. In other words, the forests will yield approximately 50 million more board feet annually than we are taking from them. It would seem only wise that we use that which we have in our own forest and make a little better use of the industry which might come as a result of these trees fabricated into building material.

We have in connection with the forests, the wild life. Much has been said about what we get out of that resource, but I find we are not getting all we should. We get the recreation—and recreation in the state is growing rapidly. Probably this is one of our resources and it should be counted as an income over the entire state. During 1937, 231,735 people visited the two parks, Bryce and Zion. I do not have the records on some of the smaller parks. During the same year, 600,000 visited Rocky Mountain park in Colorado, and the trend is upward. Our increase last year was eight per cent, while the increase in Colorado was 14 per cent. People come here and they want something. They come to the West and expect to see something that is wild, and if that is what they want we should sell it to them. There is no reason why they can not find things as wild as they want them. I know of no more profitable business than selling scenery. We sell

UTILIZING LOCAL RESOURCES

it year after year and we have it all left in the fall. Some of us have not appreciated some of the things we really have. This is the only state in the Union where we have the great laccolith mountains. These are written up in every geology book published in the world. They are very well known except in Utah. We should say more about them. We make a great deal of fuss over a natural bridge, but the larger things by the side we let pass by.

We are not doing enough in the working up of our native materials. Utah is always among the highest, never less than third, in the production of silver, but as you look around, practically every silversmith is gone, for silver offered in this state has usually been shaped and engraved somewhere else. Wouldn't it be wonderful if we had in our group someone who could take that silver and begin an industry that would give our young people something to do, and at the same time have something to sell! It is the youth about whom we are worried. This problem of youth has crept upon us so gradually that probably we think it will take care of itself. But when we stop to realize that records indicate that 2,450 boys and girls from the rural districts of Utah are arriving at the age of 21 each year, with 1,213 young men on the average for the last five years arriving at the age of 21, it presents a serious problem. What are we offering them? This means under normal living and normal procedure, a probable one thousand new rural families each year, which should mean a probable one thousand new homes to be occupied. We must have some expansion, and I appeal to you women, especially, to analyze your own locality and see what you might

365

have in your section in the possibility of expanding lands, new water development, or other things that will offer these young people new homes.

If I were asked what is the most crying need in Utah today, I would answer that it is a few thousand new homes and new industries—not a home consisting of two rooms, with a kitchen and living room in one end and the bedroom in the other—but a home from which a decent standard of living might be extracted. Industries should be developed in the state to use Utah's natural resources that will give to the young unemployed people a place to work and place to earn. We have in the state many natural resources. The time has come when these should receive attention. The wonderful marble and marble onyx that is prized so highly in several localities has not received sufficient attention in the state. Even onyx marble specimens or polished articles are not available to the tourists. This material is a novelty everywhere except here. The great deposit of bentonite in Box Elder county should be worked into an industry. The variscites and fluorites of Tooele county should be worked into ornaments and attractive specimens, and probably combined with silver, which is so easily available, to make an industry. As it is, our own people buy large quantities of similar materials and bring them home rather than selling the natural resources we have. The salt from the lake has long been a novelty. Halite specimens from the salt mines of Sevier county would be a great attraction. We have spoken of the necessity of phosphorus to rehabilitate our soils. There are only three places in the United States other than the West where phosphate is found. 

366

There is a small tonnage in Tennessee, some in the northern part of Florida, and some in South Carolina. About 95 per cent is found in Utah, Wyoming and Idaho. This material should be available so people can see it and be permitted to purchase specimens and carry them away. The little area known as the Crawford mountain in Rich county contains more than six million tons of very high grade phosphate. This should be worked into an industry. Little benefit has been obtained from the application of raw rock, but the ore must be treated to make it water soluble before plants can use it.

We have a great mining district in Utah. The income from the mines is reported by a bank in California as $88,000,000 for the year 1937. Fine specimens of ore should be available for tourists. Some mines are known for their fine crystals, with the probable highest value in keepsake specimens rather than their metalliferous content. In many parts of the state, agate, onyx and petrified woods are available. To make, cut and polish these specimens might easily furnish an industry to some young people. The great alunite deposit of Piute county is quite well known over the nation. High grade alunite is attractive and possibly could be sold more for hand specimens than its aluminum and potash values. The alabaster found in Emery county is most attractive but not available. The magnetite of Iron county is a novelty, and almost everyone is interested in a rock that will pick up iron. The natural coke in the coal mines is described in many localities but I have never seen a piece available for distribution or sale to our tourists. Topaz mountain is known quite well to mineral collectors. It would seem possible to make an asset out of it. Gilsonite, elaterite and ozokerite are found principally in Utah. There are many fine fossil forms for which the formations of Utah are famous. Cornetite and uranite specimens are found quite abundantly in Emery and Grand counties. This material is a novelty because of its radio activity.

The essential ingredients in paint are lead and zinc with oil. Utah is among the first two or three states in the nation in the production of lead and zinc. As one rides up and down the state he is thoroughly convinced that Utah needs paint and has been needing it for years. Is it not possible to develop an industry for the manufacture of white lead and zinc oxide, rather than shipping these materials to St. Louis or a farther distance, then buying the material back as paint at a greatly increased cost, having paid the freight both ways?

There are many attractive natural woods in Utah, especially our mountain mahogany, oaks and maples. There are still some few people left in the districts of the state who have the fine art of wood carving, novelty furniture making, etc., which might easily offer remunerative rewards. There is the possibility of working up wools and skins, which are always attractive to tourist purchasers. Utah has more than two and one-half million sheep, producing more than 20 million pounds of wool. All its wool is shipped out of the state for washing and fabricating, and even our knitting mills essentially buy yarns prepared somewhere else.

Let us give our natural resources careful consideration. It is my conviction there are a great number of things we can do that we have not attempted yet. I feel chagrined when I talk of the indebtedness we owe to the

UTILIZING LOCAL RESOURCES

Federal Land Bank. At the present time Utah owes 30 million dollars. When they gave us a rating two years ago we were put in 47th place, with only one state below us, and that state is made up largely of colored people. Our present position today is only 40th. This debt must be paid. It is not that the people are trying to avoid it but we must have more income. It means working up every solitary thing we have in our communities. Be your own dreamers, be your own promoters. Let's not allow someone else to come here and take this thing up and make money from it. Develop your own industries, and I am sure we can increase the income we have.

367

We still have one thing, to my mind, that is the greatest of our natural resources. When the pioneers came to this country they came with a definite code of ethics; they came with definite standards of living in honesty, integrity and morality, and a definite code of behavior toward each other. As long as we can maintain that same code of ethics I feel we are rich, and that we will go forward and get out of this difficulty we are in at present. I pray the Lord to bless us, bless us with the courage of our convictions, and courage enough to do the thing that we know we ought to do, and I am sure we will go forward with a better standard of living.