Generations
By Wilford D. Lee
Lewis Jensen stepped into his father's store, and knocking the dust off his leather jacket with his gloves, he walked to the back of the store to warm his fingers over the circulating heater. He was a handsome fellow in a dark sort of way, but his face, now begrimed with dirt, was drawn thin with a perpetual melancholy. In his deep blue eyes there was a far-away look, timid, wistful; yet his mouth was set with a firmness that expressed an unusual resolution. Once he started for the door of his father's office, but he stopped at the icebox and drank a bottle of soda water first. Then, straightening his shoulders as if with great effort, he quickly went into the office and closed the door.
Johnny Goodman, the ever-efficient clerk and semi-manager of the Jensen Merc., sat back on the bins behind the counter and strummed absently on the frayed strings of his old ukulele. His thoughts were far away, perhaps scudding with the wild, wind-swept clouds which slithered across the low grey hills to the east. His eyes were as misty as the weather, for that morning Mrs. Goodman had demanded a new coat, and deep down in his innards Johnny knew that such weather offered his wife the best possible excuse for insisting. He was almost to break into a doleful lament when Ellen May Waldrum, who clerked on the dry goods side, came over to get a package of gum. Moving her head significantly toward the office in the rear, she remarked, "If you ask me, I'd say that there's going to be a blow up between those two some of these days. They are entirely too different to get along."
"I didn't ask you," Johnny answered with an elaborate wink, "because I knew you would tell me anyway. Yes! I'll say there will be a blow up soon, but not because they are so different...."
"Oh?—Well, why?"
"Because they are so much alike."
"Alike! Why they are as different as they can be."
"No, Ellen,' he remarked sadly, "you can't see any farther than your nose...."
"Don't be silly, Johnny. Lewis is awfully handsome, but Mr. Jensen..."
"Listen, Ellen. Haven't you ever heard your Uncle Alf tell of how handsome Mart was when he was a young fellow? He says Lewis is the very image of him. You wait until fifty summers have had a crack at your face. It won't look so peach blown, either."

Ellen turned up her nose at him. "Aren't Lewis and his dad," continued Johnny wisely, "both subject to fits of depression?"

"Humph! That's calling it by an awfully dignified name, if you ask me. I call it just common ordinary grouchiness." But she came close to the counter and leaned over to whisper to Johnny. "Mother says it is the Danish blood in them. The Danish are always that way. And Mother says that the Welsh that Lewis got from his mother didn't help him any."

Johnny scowled ludicrously. "Made him worse, I'd say. Both of 'em are so sensitive, they crawl right

GENERATIONS

back into themselves if you say scat. That young school teacher says they are both too blamed intelligent."

"Blamed?"

"Well—er—you know, he didn't actually say that, but that was the general impression."

Ellen May laughed lightly. "That's your impression, not the school teacher's He'd never say that." She did a new dance step across the store and left Johnny to contemplate the evil of mixing Danish and Welsh blood.

In the office, Lewis sat with one leg slung across the littered desk, and poked absently with one finger at the obsolete typewriter. His father, heavy and taciturn, stood at the dust-smeared window pretending to gaze out into the raw fall afternoon.

"Well, I just as well tell you what I think, Dad," the boy said. "Every time I try to talk to you about myself, you either walk out on me, or else accuse me of being ungrateful. I'm not ungrateful. But I do think that a person has a right to choose his own course in life."

His father scoffed. "Well, the very course you are choosing is proof enough that some responsible person should do your thinking for you."

"That's what you think."

"Yes, that's what I think. I've worked all my life long to provide you with something better than I had when I started out, and this is the thanks I get."

"See? There you go again. I'm the ungrateful one. I tell you that I don't like farming, and I don't like business. And I don't like being accused of ungratefulness because I can't like them. I've worked these last two years without saying a word hoping that I could make myself like them, but I can't. It just isn't in me."

387

"Well, I suppose it is my own fault," the father remarked bitterly. "I shouldn't have married into your mother's family."

The boy leaped to his feet. "You would insult my mother? You would insult the woman you married?" He almost choked. But the father turned away in high derision.

"I have been able to train most of it out of your mother, but only to see the weakness come out in her son. A musician!" His tone was thick with sarcasm. "Why your uncle David taught music all his life, and if he hadn't been in the army when he died, the county would probably have had to bury him. He used to teach music for fifty cents a lesson, and then didn't even collect that! I've given him many a pair of shoes just to keep him off the ground. Music!"

"Yes, music!" The boy's eyes were filled with rage—rage and frustration. "He did things for this town that you couldn't do!" With sullen tenacity the boy stood his ground. "Why did the people all love him so? What did the people need most when they first came into this sagebrush country?"

"Why, they needed food and clothing, and homes to live in. And if it hadn't been for good solid men, what would have become of people like him?"

Vainly the boy sought to find words with which to express the deep-seated feeling that was within him. What his father said was true, so true he couldn't deny a word of it. "But—but—why live?" he spluttered at last. "Cows and pigs have food to eat, and comfort. I want something more than the animals. Every decent person does."

"Yes, I know what you are going to say. Every one wants something

388

for nothing. There are some of us who work and do things worth while, and naturally, we get paid for it. We supply people with the necessities of life. But there are parasites who come along and want to spend their lives like—like so many butterflies, flitting about and having some one else make their living for them."

"That isn't true," the young fellow cried hotly. "If you, or anyone else ever gave uncle David anything, he was worth it, ten times over. Why Mother has told me...."

"Yes, your mother has told you lots of things."

"Why almost every one of the older people in this town who play the piano was uncle David's student."

"Well, what of it?"

"And he used to put on entertainments where all the kids in school would be on the stage in a grand cantata. Why they used to love him. Mother used to call him the Pied Piper."

"Yes," the father agreed bitterly, "that was your uncle David, all right. He would play around with the women and children until all of the fall work was done, and then he would never have anything to live on during the winter."

"Dad, you are obsessed with the money-making fever. Isn't there anything in the world that is valuable besides making money?" The boy hung his head as if confessing a crime. "I—I love beautiful things, and I want to work with them; but you have forced me all my life to plug away with the ugliest things there are."

"Beautiful things!' His father glared at him in scorn. "Isn't that a fine way for a full grown man to be talking. You say that I forced you into the kind of life you are

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

living? Well, maybe that's true. I've done the best I could to save you from being a fool. Maybe it's all right to sing, but for a man to make it his life, then that life is worthless. My old dad was disappointed in me for marrying whom I did. He wanted me to take a good stout Danish girl." The agonized father drew his hand across his face as if to resolve some terrible mental conflict. "My boy," he concluded earnestly, "I've never seen a musician that wasn't a pauper, an artist that wasn't lacking in manhood, nor an actor that wasn't immoral. May my family be delivered from any of them."

The distracted man took a turn or two the length of the office. After a time he continued, "When I sent you to school, I thought that I had trained you well enough that I could trust you, but you were deceitful. Instead of working hard at your business course that I picked out for you, you sneaked off here, there, and everywhere, playing in the band and the orchestra, and singing in the glee club, and spending my money. Can you expect me to keep on supplying you with money which you have neither earned if you spend it that way? Now, if you will do as I say, I will see to it that you are taken care of, but if you don't—well—"

The young man, raised his head, and with some effort squared his shoulders. "Dad, up until now I've been just like so much mush with you. I've let you lick me every time. But now I'm certain that you are wrong and that I'm right. I've made up my mind what I'm going to do. I believe that I have a right to live the kind of life that will bring me happiness. I don't intend to bury myself in this little town and dig in the dirt all my life. That kind

GENERATIONS

of life is all right for those who like it, and there are plenty of them. The more you poke fun at musicians, the more I want to be one. You sneer at uncle David but I admire him more than anyone else. It is all right to make a living, but I can't see any use in it unless you get some happiness out of living it."

His father turned on him almost savagely. "A good man finds happiness in any useful work. It is only the parasite that wants to get out of work."

The boy's face flushed with anger. "A musician works as hard as you do. And anyway, you can't say that I've been lazy. You hire someone else to do the work that I've done for the last five years, and see if you can get as much from him for your money. Marjorie and I are moving out tomorrow. You can either sell our house or rent it; we won't need it again. You will be able to sell it for twice as much as it cost you. I'll donate my labor. Maybe that will satisfy your lust for money."

The boy swung out of the office, and stalked through the store with his head down to hide the mist in his eyes.

Mrs. Jensen hurried to the kitchen where she was preparing supper. Three large trout lay on the table all cleaned and ready to roll in the flour. Opening the oven door, she tested it with her hand, and finding it hot enough, she took a large pan of biscuits from the table and popped them into the oven. Then with a sigh, she glanced into the mirror. Quickly unfastening her hair, she fluffed the dark strands with the comb, and fashioned them about her careworn face. In the dark eyes there was an expression of deep mystery, and her face still

389

showed a remnant of melancholy beauty which more than thirty years of male dominance had sadly marred. Although her mouth was now drawn in anguish, she held back the tears. She tidied herself quickly, and then went into the dining room to fix the fire. A knock at the door, made her set the heavy scuttle down. When she opened the door, there stood in the darkness, a tall, gaunt man wearing a large Stetson hat.

"Alf!" she murmured.

"Hello, Martha," the tall fellow greeted her cordially. "Is Mart home yet?"

"No, he hasn't come home yet," she answered, stepping aside and holding the door open in an invitation for him to enter. "He should be here any minute, though."

Entering the dining room and tossing his hat on the sewing machine, the old cowman seated himself in a comfortable rocker near the fire. Alf Tanner was an old rancher of the region, in reality an uncle to many of the people of the town, but the adopted uncle of all. His face was weatherbeaten, and his mouse-colored mustache drooped about his mouth, but his eyes made up in luster and brilliance for the dullness of his exterior appearance. It was the fountain of youth which bubbled forever within him that caused men and women to turn to him instinctively in their hours of trial.

"Well Martha," he remarked as the woman busied herself setting the table, "you look as pretty as you did thirty years ago when Mart ran away with you. Seems like some people never lose their good looks," he chuckled broadly. "Now me, I've never lost any good looks, have I?

The woman, in spite of her heavy

390

heart, was forced to laugh. "No, Alf, you can be thankful that you have never had any good looks to lose."

Leaning back, the lanky old cow puncher surveyed the comfort of the dining room reminiscently. "Well, Martha, you have been mighty comfortable and happy in this old house, haven't you? Seems like only yesterday that you an' Mart bought it. Thought you was coming right to the top, then, didn't you?"

The woman went on setting the table and said nothing, but the old cowman rambled on. "I wish everybody had as much to make them happy as you have. A good home, a lot of land, a good family, an' everything. It's been a happy life, hasn't it?" He thumbed an old and much worn gold medal that hung from his watch chain as he waited a moment for her answer. When she was silent, he twisted about in his chair, and looking at her, asked pointedly, "Well, hasn't it?"

"Yes, there have been some times when we have been happy," she murmured, "but..."

"But what?"

"Oh Alf, you can never know the agony that a woman feels when her whole life has been a futile mistake."

The man smiled easily. "Now, Martha. Don't get into one of your moods again. I thought that you had just about cured yourself of them. Welsh will be Welsh, though in spite of you, eh?"

She turned quickly to him. "You heard that Lewis and Marjorie are leaving, didn't you?"

The old cowman nodded. "You want them to, don't you?"

The woman took in a breath for quick denial but she caught herself. For a moment she looked at the old cowman, surprised that he could read in her mind something that she had hardly suspected herself. When she spoke, her voice broke with emotion. "Oh Alf, I don't know what I want." She hurried out into the kitchen to get the fish into the frying pan.

It was only a few minutes until Mr. Jensen came in through the front door. He stopped abruptly at the sight of his old friend comfortably ensconced in his own easy chair. With a silent nod, he went on through the dining room and into his bedroom where he left his hat and coat. Returning, he warmed his fingers over the heater. The gloom of his spirit dampened the room like a fog.

The old cowman took up the evening paper, and turning to the financial page, studied it absently as he sniffed at the tantalizing aroma of frying fish from the kitchen.

"I see wheat's up," he remarked after a bit. "Sold yours yet?"

Mr. Jensen grunted a negation. There was silence between the two until Mrs. Jensen set the food on the table. But even the taste of golden brown trout could not dispel the gloom that enshrouded everything. When Mrs. Jensen had finished placing the food on the table, she went into her own bedroom and remained there.

"Doesn't your wife feel well?" the old cowman inquired.

The store keeper glanced up from his plate. "She doesn't like fish," he said. "She can't eat when they are on the table."

After awhile the guest spoke again. "Heard some of the boys saying that Lewis is going to school again this year. That's mighty good of you to let him off right in the middle of harvesting."

The other man stopped with a forkful of fish half way to his mouth. "Did he say that I let him off?"

"Well, no. But if he is going, I just took it for granted that you had.... Didn't you?"

"He came into the store this afternoon and announced that he was going."

"Had quite a row, I guess?"

Mr. Jensen nodded as he stripped the backbone of a fish.

"You know," the old cowman philosophized, "my old dad used to say, 'Be careful who you hate, an' be careful who you fight with. You are probably just like them.' "

The other man paused. "You mean that... That Lewis and I are alike?"

"Remarkably, I'd say. Remarkably. But yourselves... To each other you probably don't notice it. But everyone remarks about it."

"That's nonsense."

"Maybe. Maybe not. You're both subject to them Danish fits of grouchiness, ain't you?"

Mr. Jensen scowled down into his plate.

"Well, maybe his fits are Welsh melancholy. I guess that'd make yours Danish stubbornness. Well, anyway you're both remarkably alike."

"Another of your silly notions."

"Don't be too sure. There are a hundred ways you are just alike. About the only difference is that you are light and he is dark. Of course you are different in the way you—a—react to yourselves. You see, your hair curls, and you plaster it down as if you were ashamed of it. His hair curls and he encourages it. You are both too thin skinned to live in a common world. You curl up like a yellow leaf when anybody criticizes you. About the biggest difference between you is that you have cultivated different sides of your nature. He has done his best to cultivate the artistic side, an' you can't forgive him for it. But I can remember when you were a young fellow, you liked to sing too. You remember the quartet that you an' David used to be in." He paused awhile to mull over the memory. But after a bit he continued, "David—he went on with music, but you and me got off on the money-making side of life. The only man that Lewis resembles as much as he does you is his uncle David."

The old store-keeper heaved himself to his feet. "That's a lie!"

"No it isn't. I don't see why you should feel insulted about it either. The time was when you thought David was the grandest fellow alive. Didn't you?"

The other man gripped the back of his chair until his knuckles were white.

"It is sometimes the little things which turn the whole order of our lives," the old cowman went on. "Has it ever occurred to you that the things which we are unconscious of sometimes determine what we make of ourselves? You remember how everyone loved David because he was happy and carefree, even though he didn't have a dime. He had something that satisfied the starved longing of their souls. How often have you sat and listened while he played the piano? You and I could fill peoples bellies with salt pork and beans, but he had something that filled their souls with beauty. He had a heavenly gift, a talent that was most remarkable. But somehow you could never forgive him for it; you were jealous because he could make friends, an' you couldn't. And in your Danish way, you have become sour clear through. An' more than that: since you couldn't take it out on him, you married the person closest to him,

392

his own sister, an' you have been taking it out on her for thirty years."

Jensen flung aside the chair. "You can't say that to me." His sharp blue eyes flashed fire from their deep sockets.

The old cowman leaned on the back of his chair and quieted his friend with a depreciatory gesture. "Don't get riled, Mart," he begged. "I'm just trying to help you do some thinking that you have put off for thirty years. Set down over here, an' let's get to the bottom of this."

When Mr. Jensen was comfortably seated in his big chair the old cowman pulled up a chair from the table and continued, "Mart, you know that you aren't happy. Oh, you get some satisfaction out of the feeling that you are successful. But law! Success ain't worth the price you are paying for it. You've been a good man, and have done a lot to make this country what it is. Without men like you this country would still be in sagebrush. But you have shut out half of life, an' the most beautiful half at that. It seems like you have done all your thinking inside a closed wall. You've never let yourself think anything except what was strictly orthodox in politics, or religion, or in life. Whenever you read you always pick out those things that agree with your way of thinking, an' won't let yourself hear anything else. Now history shows..."

But the old storekeeper stopped him with a gesture. "History shows this," he cried with some heat, "that the men and women who are worthwhile are the ones that have tended to business, and have left the frittering things of life alone. There's Hill, and Harriman, and Gould and Rockefeller, and Edison. Men of substantial worth. Show me anyone who has done more for this country than these men."

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

"Oh, I agree with you. They have done their part. Yet—you know, I heard a fellow say once, that when we got ourselves completely supplied with the things of this world, we would wake up to the fact that we have a mind, and that the mind is capable of giving us the greatest satisfactions imaginable. It may be that some men, say David, an' your boy Lewis, have woke up to the fact already. You know, Mart, you an' me are just two old codgers, remnants of a frontier age that is passing fast. We have our own ideas about how things should go, but we don't consult others on how they would like it to go. After all, we are only half alive. We can't enjoy those things which are life to some people. Now that boy of yours: I watched him the other night when that chap was in town giving a piano recital. Those lines about his mouth were all smoothed out, an' his scowl was all gone. His face just beamed he was so filled with joy at the sound of the music. Now me, I didn't like it much. I guess I don't know enough about it. I just went because I had to buy a couple of tickets an' I didn't want to waste 'em."
The old cowman paused awhile and settled back in his chair. His eyes were alight with the thought of the joy he had seen in the boy's face. Presently he turned to the boy's father and went on. "My girl Emmy's like your boy, some, only her line's painting. She ain't one of those professional painters, you know. She just does it for fun. Well, I was out on the coast where she lives last summer, an' she drove me up the Columbia River Highway. I started cussing because the road was so crooked. Well, she shut me up in a hurry. 'Every curve,' she says 'takes one to a new vista of beauty.' She taught me more about the beauty of form, and rhythm and color on that trip that I had ever heard of before. She said that the artists
GENERATIONS
of the country would mob any commission that ever tried to straighten out that road; an' damned if I wouldn't help 'em, too, now that I see it the way she does."
The old cowman got up, and taking up his hat, rolled the brim in his hands. "It might be a long time before you see it, Mart," he concluded. "Maybe you won't ever see it. All I have to say is that this old world is dreary and bleak enough the way we find it. I don't resent anyone's ambition to make it a more pleasant place to live in. It may be that your wife's brother David was too much on the artistic side, but that wasn't his fault. He just came before his time. Now days, with the opportunities that people have in college, he would become a great musician. The love of beauty that David had lives on in your son. It's too bad that you can't see how valuable a thing it is. Well, good night." He turned abruptly and went out into the night. While the door was open the chill wind howled through the house; when it was-closed again, the silence seemed insufferably intense. ME: JENSEN sat slumped in his chair and stared at the carpet. His wife came from her room and cleared the table, but he seemed oblivious to everything. For an hour he remained thus, the storm within him drawing his brows tighter into a pathetic, resentful scowl. Presently the door opened. Lewis and his wife entered, dressed for traveling. The boy looked at his father, but walked on through the dining room without speaking. Mrs. Jensen met them at the kitchen door, her hands still wet from washing dishes. "You aren't going tonight." she exclaimed. "Yes," the boy comforted her. "We just as well go now as any 393 time. We can get down there tomorrow and get us a place to stay. Then I can start Monday. I can't afford to lose much more if I intend to catch up before the end of the quarter." He went over to his father. 'Here is the key to the house. You will find in it everything that you have given us," The old man arose without taking the key. Glaring at the young woman, he growled, "Well, I suppose we have you to thank for all this. I was afraid when Lewis married you that you would undo all that I have tried to do. Well..." The young man started, and would have answered his father angrily, but his wife placed a restraining hand on his sleeve. She smiled a little pathetically from behind her veil. "TI knew you wouldn't understand," she said simply. "You have never understood anyone, not even yourself. I am sorry that this is happening, but it is the only way that I can see for any of us to get any happiness out of life." "Happiness!" "Yes, happiness. You won't believe it, of course, but the world is moving on, and it is leaving you behind. It is not satisfied to still have nothing but those barren simple pleasures of your generation. New intelligence demands new culture, and you are refusing to admit it." The old man glared at her. "We picked you up with nothing and gave you a good home, and this is the thanks we get for it. You make our son dissatisfied with his life here, and take him off on some wild goose chase 'To find happiness'," he finished scornfully. "No," she answered quickly, "you are wrong twice. In the first place, you did not 'pick me up'. Before I came to you I had a good living of my own, and I can go back to it. I left it of my own choice, and you had nothing to do with it. In 394 the second place, I have never influenced Lewis one way or the other. I am satisfied to be the wife of a farmer if I love him, and he loves his work. I don't care what my husband does for a living if he gets joy out of it. But I do care very much if every day in the year is misery to him. Happiness out of this life when we love the things we do." "Well, don't come crying to me for money when poverty catches up to you." She laughed. "You have held that over Lewis for a long time now. I made a hundred a month before I married him. I can still do it." “And he will let you do it!" The blood leaped to the girl's face. "You are an old Puritan," she cried hotly. "You not only destroy the beauty in your own life, but you insist on destroying it in the lives of everyone else. Lewis is a gifted person, but you would smother his talent as if it were a sin. You don't deserve the kind of son you have." The young woman walked over to-where the mother sat crying. She stooped and kissed her and murmured some comforting words into her ear. © Then, pulling on their gloves, the two prepared to leave. Lewis took his mother in his arms and kissed her good-by. He looked over at his father who had turned to the window and stood glaring out into the darkness. "I’ll leave the car at Link Brother's garage, Dad. Johnny said that he would bring it out tomorrow.". The father half turned. 'Aren't you taking the car?" he asked.. "No," the, boy replied in a tone of, relief."  We won't have enough RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE money to run a car for a year or two. You'd better sell it." The two walked to the door, and without looking back went out into the gusty night. "THE grey dawn came in through the window and awoke the old storekeeper where he sat in his chair. His wife came in with some kindling and coal, and in her usual way built a fire. In her eyes there was a deep hurt when she looked upon the suffering of the man with whom she had lived for thirty years. She was the only one who could know the depths of that silent agony which could not find expression. Now that Lewis had gone, there was nothing left for the father to live for. The business, the land, the ranch... All useless now without an heir. How bleak had been his life. Business and work. He could never play. Now he could enjoy nothing. He had never learned how. His success, the great passion of his existence, had fallen about him. The life that he had looked upon as being the road to happiness had suddenly turned out to be a cheat and a lie. In it there was no vibrant pulsing love; in it there was no warm glow of satisfaction. There was nothing but figures, figures. Figures. In the greatness of his agony, he arose and did the only thing that he could do. He chafed his benumbed fingers over the glowing fire until they were warm, then he reached for his checkbook. Filling in the blank for a hundred dollars, he handed it to his wife and gruffly demanded her to send it to Lewis when she got his address. Then, putting on his hat and coat, he went out into the raw wind.