Brigham Young's Qualities of Leadership
By Elder Nephi L. Morris

One hundred thirty-seven years ago last June first a child was born in the little village of Whittingham, Windham County, Vermont. The parents gave the child the unusual name of Brigham. Little did they think that name would be boldly and legibly written across the western continent particularly from the Mississippi River to the Pacific coast. The name of Brigham Young after the lapse of a century and a third, looms with increasing boldness with the passing of each decade.

Woodrow Wilson once said that the eight horses which draw the triumphal chariot of every ruler and leader of free men are: Force of Character, Readiness of Resources, Clearness of Vision, Grasp of Intellect, Courage of Conviction, Earnestness of Purpose, and an Instinct and Capacity for Leadership. To these outstanding qualities, essential in any great leader, I must, in order to do justice to and complete the character under consideration, add two additional qualifications. They are first, a Love and a Desire to Bless Mankind, and second, the indefinable but unmistakable thing known as Divine Inspiration.

One observation before we proceed: Good leadership is nullified only by poor followers. It can succeed only through good followers. What made Brigham Young's tremendous work successful was the high average quality of his followers. What he didn't know, what he couldn't do, they did know and did do. As a natural result the outstanding success was attained by the happy combination of excellent leadership and as equally splendid quality of following.

Taking up the well defined elements of great leadership let us first consider those of Instinct and Capacity in combination. They are necessarily associated.

It is faithfully recorded in Church history that upon the first meeting of Brigham Young and the Prophet Joseph Smith the latter made the statement that Brigham Young would some day preside over this people. Some ten or twelve years later, at the time of the martyrdom of Joseph and Hyrum, the Saints were for a time in a state of bewilderment and serious confusion. Sidney Rigdon, once counselor to the Prophet and member of the First Presidency, vigorously asserted his claims to a "trusteeship" over the Church. For days he publicly contended before the people that he should be recognized in that capacity.

It should be remembered that authority in the Church was first bestowed by ordination upon Joseph Smith and Oliver Cowdery. Upon their heads was conferred a fulness of Apostolic authority and the Keys of Presidency over the Dispensation established upon the earth were distinctly given to them. In due course of time the Quorum of Twelve was organized and upon the shoulders of the members of that quorum Joseph placed the responsibility and authority of leadership. That is the quorum second in authority and upon the

BRIGHAM YOUNG

dissolution of the quorum of the First Presidency the right of jurisdiction and authority devolves upon the Twelve. Sidney Rigdon was not a member of the Quorum of the Twelve.

With the passing of the Prophet the quorum of the Presidency was dissolved and the successor in authority was the quorum of apostles. By a singular succession of events the senior member of the Twelve, one Thomas B. Marsh, apostatized and had been excommunicated from the Church. The second member in order of seniority was the sainted David W. Patten who suffered martyrdom at the hands of an infuriated mob, about seventy-five in number, on Log Creek, Missouri. Brigham Young was next in order of seniority. He arrived at Nauvoo some time after Mr. Rigdon had amply set forth his claims. Other members of the quorum had also arrived upon the scene. A public meeting of the members of the distressed people was called. Brigham Young addressed the multitude. As he proceeded with his counsel to the Church and set before the throng the proper line of procedure the people listened to him with satisfaction. His hearers were amazed at the resemblance of his voice and facial features to those of the martyred Prophet. They are said to have exclaimed in great numbers, "It is the face of Joseph." "It is the voice of Joseph." Confusion and perplexity were removed from their minds and they heeded the voice of a modern Moses whose leadership was so providentially manifest to them.

The Prophet's prophecy was to be fulfilled. The great body of the Church followed Brigham. He was at once recognized as the presiding member of the Twelve and as

369

such presided over the Church and was soon afterwards formally sustained as President of the Church. This exalted office he successfully administered from then until the day of his demise, in 1877. In this remarkable manner were the qualities of leadership recognized by the people and indicated by the Almighty. Time vindicated both. Now history gives her generous approval. But more than this, by his selection as a leader of the Church. This exalted office he successfully administered from then until the day of his demise, in 1877. In this remarkable manner were the qualities of leadership recognized by the 'people and indicated by the Almighty. Time vindicated both. Now history gives her generous approval. But more than this, by his selection as a leader of the people, the integrity of church organization has been once for all established and preserved in the Church. Innocence in childhood, or in the untutored mind of the savage oftentimes may recognize true character more clearly than the mere subtle minds of cultured and cunning people. I relate an incident in demonstration of this truth because it again demonstrates the conspicuous qualities of leadership inherent in the subject of our sketch. Many of the Indian tribes were unfriendly to the settlers and travelers here in pioneer days. Unfortunately, in many instances, this attitide was justified. But Brigham Young maintained very friendly relations with the tribes. And their chiefs. Two outstanding chiefs, viz., Arapeen and Peteetnit were among that class. Under the Territorial government President Brigham Young was appointed by the Federal government to the position of Indian Agent. He was succeeded in that capacity by one Mr. Farney. Chief Arapeen made a striking observation concerning the two men and the comparative trustworthiness of each. He said: "The words of Farney are mere bawling. What he says goes into one ear and passes out of the other. When Brigham Young, he speak, what he says goes into both ears and 370 sink down into the heart and stay there." I repeat, a child, a simple-minded but honest savage may be unerring in his interpretation of human nature. Perhaps it is one of nature's intuitive weapons of self-defense. I WILL be remembered that the original band of "Mormon" Pioneers left Winter Quarters, now called Florence, Nebraska, in April, 1847, and reached the end of their memorable journey on July 24, 1847. It consisted of one hundred forty-eight persons in all and they had seventy-three wagons in their train. The year before, the unhappy Donner-Reed party of western-bound emigrants started from Springfield, Illinois, in the month of May. Their party consisted of approximately ninety people. They traveled along safely and pleasantly as far as Fort Bridger. By the time of their arrival there, their numbers had become greatly augmented by large and small groups uniting with them until they then numbered about four hundred. Donner, because of his age, wealth, experience and influence was chosen leader. Reed was a close second choice and made a substantial contribution to the management of affairs as long as things went well with the sturdy band. Their personnel was made up of a splendid lot of miscellaneous people among whom were many kind, courageous, self-sacrificing and noble men and women. Some of these were cast in the mold from which heroes come. Yet there were among them those who had elements of weakness, selfishness, and treachery. Man for man, however, there appears to be no substantial difference between the two historic pioneering groups—except for one thing and that was in the important matter RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of leadership and organization. The Donner party at Fort Bridger was persuaded by one Lansford W. Hastings to take an unknown route, supposedly shorter by three hundred miles, which took them around the south shores of Great Salt Lake instead of over the well traveled Oregon Trail via Fort Hall and northwest from that historic early day landmark. This ill-advised decision upon the part of the Donner party resulted in the reduction of the party back to about its original number. Proceeding from Fort Bridger they reached Salt Lake Valley by way of Emigration Canyon. HEIR trail, the "Mormon" Pioneers faithfully followed into the valley the following season. But this was the end of the journey to the latter group but to the former it was the end of safe and successful travel and resulted finally in their suffering from thirst, food for their cattle, and still more seriously in the loss of unity of effort and complete destruction of leadership and harmony in their now tragic journey. On the treacherous and impassible salt flats the cattle became exhausted and maddened from thirst. Eighteen of the Donner's oxen dashed out on the salt desert to die of thirst and hunger, never to be seen again by man. On and on slowly they trudged over the sterile saline ocean bed, leaving behind them by degrees, excess weight. Utensils, equipment, and finally wagons were abandoned, left to bleach in the summer's sun and the salty waters of the winters. Their tracks are still visible for no white man on wheels has since traversed or even crossed the trail they made. A cruel early winter set in upon their unhoused heads and October snows began to impede their already slow progress. November snows increased BRIGHAM YOUNG the depth and those of December buried them beneath 15 to 20 feet as they reached the beautiful lake since named after their leader. They made rude huts to shelter them from the bitter cold and the constantly deepening snows. Futile efforts were made to cross the Humbolt Mountains. Snow shoes were made of neck-yoke bows and rawhide strips. Death made heavy inroads. Oxen were killed for food. Finally the hides were eaten and the horrors of hunger ultimately drove these kindly, noble, men, women and children to the last fearful extremity. Lots were cast for the one to take the life of a starving fellow that others might live and probably save the rest. The executioner selected refused, but death took his place and then human flesh was eaten that women and children might be saved from the most terrible of deaths. Beautiful Donner Lake became their burial ground—the saddest, most tragic in all America. HESE unfortunate people were just as courageous, as valorous, as heroic and as kind as were the followers of Brigham Young. He did not pass through such a hazardous piece of territory. His leadership had inspired him to follow good advice and all information available to him and his associates was carefully weighed and divine guidance fervently sought every step of the way. In comparing Brigham Young with George or Jacob Donner or James Frazier Reed, I do not do so with the least suggestion of criticism or unkindness, but with thanksgiving in my heart that a capable leadership was provided for the "Mormon" Pioneers that was equal to every emergency that arose in their great undertaking. To show that Brigham Young and 371 his noble band was threatened by the disintegrating forces of disunion, quarreling and criminal tendencies, which could have easily brought the noble enterprise to complete ruin, I will submit for your consideration a few pages of pioneer history taken from the dependable journal of the intelligent and trustworthy William Clayton, written day-by-day along the way. The crisis of the journey seemed to come to a head on the 29th day of May. The company was near Chimney Rocks, not far from Scott's Bluffs. Brigham Young called a halt on the procedure and told them he felt like holding a meeting as he had some things to say to them. After defining the causes of past persecutions of his people and the behavior of evil men in seeking the destruction of the Saints, he continued thus: "Nobody has told me what has been going on in this camp, but I have known it all the while. I have been watching its movements, its influence, its effects, and I know the result of it if not put a stop to. If you do not open your hearts so that the spirit of God can enter into your hearts and teach you the right way, I know that you are a ruined people and will be destroyed, and that without remedy, and unless there is a change and a different course of conduct, a different spirit to what is now in this camp, I go no farther. I am in no hurry. Give me a man of prayer, give me a man of faith, give me a man of meditation, a sober-minded man, and I would far rather go amongst the savages with six or eight such men than to trust myself with the whole of this camp with the spirit they now possess." Describing their weaknesses, their petty wrong-doings, their idleness, their telling of unworthy jokes, indulging 72 in profanity, (Brigham Young came from a Methodist family) their gambling and giving away to anger and rage, he said, "If you had liquor with you, you would be at each other's throats with a knife." Then he admonished them, "Tf you do not wish to obey the laws of the kingdom of God, and seek for the spirit of Christ, walk in unity and humbly, I admonish you to turn around and go back. For I will not go any farther with this company as it is." "Do you suppose that we are going to look out a home for the Saints, a resting place, a place of peace where they can build up the kingdom (of God) and bid the nations welcome, with a low, mean, dirty, trifling, covetous, wicked spirit dwelling in your bosoms? It is vain, vain! I now tell you if you do not stop it (that is, your unseemly behavior) you shall be cursed by the Almighty and shall dwindle away and be damned. Such things shall not be suffered in this camp. You shall honor God and confess His name or else you shall suffer the penalty. I am one of the last to ask my brethren to enter into a solemn covenant, but if they will not enter into a covenant to put away their iniquity and turn to the Lord and serve Him and acknowledge and honor His name, I want them to take their wagons and retreat, for I shall. Go no farther under such a state of things. I think it will be good for us to have a fast meeting tomorrow and a prayer meeting to humble ourselves and turn to the Lord and He will forgive us." He then called upon all the men present, and there were eight apostles among them, four bishops, fifteen high priests, seventy-eight seventies and eight elders. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE LL covenanted in a solemn meeting, with uplifted hands. Other leaders spoke favorably of the admonitions of the President, and the meeting adjourned and each man went back to his wagon, many expressing gratitude for what had transpired. Brother Clayton adds, "No loud laughter was heard, no swearing, no quarreling, no profane language, no hard speeches to man or beast, and it really seemed as though a cloud had burst and we had emerged into a new element, a new atmosphere and a new society." In this dramatic crisis which had slowly arisen the great spiritual leadership of Brigham Young was clearly manifest. Through the spirit of God he was able to touch the hearts of unruly and ungodly men and bring them to repentance,— back to their better selves. This incident gives a fine demonstration of instinct and capacity as well as divine inspiration in leadership. From then on the pioneers pursued their way, well-behaved, kind, orderly, happy, singing songs and hymns-- a united band of brethren. URING the prolonged series of persecutions suffered by the Latter-day Saints at the hands of mobs and militias in Missouri and Illinois it became very clear to Brigham Young that the body of religious worshippers to which he belonged would never be permanently welcomed in those states. It became increasingly clear to him that the Latter-day Saints, in order to develop as a people and work out their exalted hopes of world reform and salvation must have freedom of opportunity. As late as 1842 Joseph Smith had prophetically declared that the Saints were destined to become a "mighty people in the midst of the Rocky BRIGHAM YOUNG Mountains." Thus the Prophet had pointed the way to freedom and development. This made the course of procedure still more clear but it involved tremendous responsibility and required great wisdom and skill in planning the great migration. To select a place for the establishment of his people was his supreme task. Such an enterprise and venture involved the fate of his people and their relationship to this country which had now practically expatriated them. The situation was fraught with infinite potentialities. Clear thinking, proper behavior, and the ipreservation of unity among his people were paramount. Could all three be accomplished and the highest aims in respect to each be achieved? That was again his task. AFTER nearly a decade had passed President Young reviewed this trying situation in a sermon deJivered in 1853 from the pulpit of the "Old Tabernacle" (a building which stood about where the Assembly Hall now stands). He said, "I will mention a few things, a few doings, that transpired in Missouri, when they had Joseph and others in prison. General Clark had discretionary power from Governor Boggs to kill man, woman and child, or to spare the women and children, or distribute the whole community of Saints among the other inhabitants, just as he pleased. The cause of this was laid to the 'Mormon disturbances,' 'Mormon troubles,' though the 'Mormons' had not been off their own county, for they owned nearly the whole county where they lived, and they did not go beyond their own boundaries except on lawful and necessary business. We had given up our arms by their request to prove our loyalty to the government and then many of them said, 373 'Now G— D— you, we'll shoot you,' and some of the Saints were killed after they had surrendered their arms in faithful compliance with the requirements. "The starting point of our persecution arose by our enemies setting fire to their own houses, swearing they were burned out by the 'Mormons.' This I know for it came under my own observation. When General Clark came into Far West with his army, he sent George M. Hinkle, an apostate, to call out the remainder of the brethren on to the public square, and when they were assembled he surrounded them with his men, and said, 'Gentlemen, I have discretionary power in my hands, and I will tell you what we desire. We wish one to go home with this man, and another with that man, and take your wives and children with you, and distribute yourselves throughout the state. You are the best mechanics and the most industrious people we have, and you have accomplished more in two years than our whole settlers have in twelve. We wish you to live with us. Why cannot you associate with us? I want you to scatter among our people and give up your religion and Prophet, for I will tell you now, in the beginning, you will never see your Prophet Joseph Smith again.' (Said I to myself, "that is a falsehood," quoting Brigham Young.) 'Only mingle with us and give up your prophet and apostles, and your assembling yourselves together and we wish you to stay with us, for you are the best citizens in the state. “I thought that these expressions did not correspond well with many of his remarks, and being determined not to give up my religion, I at once concluded that he might go to Hades, and I would leave the state, and so 374 I did, with the balance of the Latterday Saints, as they had previously killed many." Observe in the following statement the position of the Latter-day Saints with respect to the Federal Constitution: "Brethren and sisters, our friends wish to know our feelings toward the government. I answer, they are first-rate and we will prove it, too, as you will see, if you live long enough; for that we shall live to prove it is certain; and when the Constitution of the United States hangs, as it were, upon a single thread, they will call for the 'Mormon' Elders to save it from utter destruction, and they will step forward and do it." Another observation: "We love the Constitution of our country. It is all we could ask; though in some few instances there might be some amendments made which would better it, etc." E HAD a clear vision as to the. Future of his people; a clear vision as to the rights of American citizens, religiously and politically; a clear vision as to the destiny of his people; that they should not be scattered by distribution even unto obliteration; a clear vision as to the enjoyment of religious freedom, by any and all Americans; he had a clear vision as to the nature and value of the Federal Constitution and the propriety of its amendment by lawful and proper procedure. Here is another instance in which Brigham Young had a clearness of vision in one of his bigger undertakings, which borders upon the superhuman, if it does not go altogether over into the domain of revelation. It is in connection with the building of the great Temple in this city. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE This extract is taken from a sermon he delivered in the Old Tabernacle April 3, 1853. Said he, "I do not like to prophesy much, I never do, but I will venture to guess that this day, and the work we have done (the laying of the corner stone of the Temple) will long be remembered by this people, and be sounded as with a trumpets' voice throughout the world, as far, as loud and as long as steam, wind and the electric current can carry it. "Some will say, 'Do you suppose we shall finish this temple, Brother Brigham?' I do not know. This I do know, there shall be a temple built here. I do know it is the duty of this people to commence to build a temple. Now some will want to know what kind of a temple it will be. I know what it will be. I am not a visionary man. I don't often speak of revelations and soon. I have Brother Kimball do my prophesying, but suffice it to say, five years ago last July (It was 1853 when he was speaking. That would throw the date back to July, 1847.) I was here and saw in the spirit the Temple not ten feet from where we have laid the chief corner stone. I have not inquired what kind of a temple it should be. Why? Because it was presented before me. I have never looked upon that ground but the vision of it was there. I see it as plainly as if it were in reality before me. Wait until itis done. I will say, however, it will have six towers, to begin with, instead of one. Now do not any of you apostatize because it will have six towers, and Joseph only built one on each of his temples. It is easier for us to build sixteen than it was for him to build one, and the time will come when there will be one in the center of temples we shall build and on the top groves BRIGHAM YOUNG and fishponds. But we shall not see them here at present." Here is a "clearness of vision" which only comes to the average trained mind after much painstaking study and calculation and the well worked out details of the structure asa whole. It was an accurate architectural conception which was afterwards expressed in admirable lines and has served its purpose nobly for upwards of a hundred years and is at present not threatened with obsolescence or deterioration. No small piece of work was this for it required full forty years to build and cost a little less than four million dollars. AFTER the barbarous expulsion from Nauvoo the exiled Saints were smitten and scattered like sheep upon whom a pack of hungry wolves had ferociously set themselves. To bring about common unity to action was a herculean task. To save them disaster and disintegration was of paramount importance. Of necessity they made a camp which was called Winter Quarters from the cold and inhuman circumstance which forced them to establish a community in the midst of severe winter. The great western migration was the challenging problem before them. Provisions, equipments and supplies were assembled from all quarters. All property at their command was consequently converted into these necessities. The country into which they were planning to go was without trail or highway so far as they knew. Information from all reliable sources was eagerly sought and carefully as- 375 similated. Aid from Washington was diplomatically and effectively sought. Senator Douglas had sent to them Capt. Fremont's report and topographical maps. These Brigham Young and Heber C. Kimball studiously absorbed. Wisely chosen scouts were selected and "set apart" to scout and explore the region they were about to enter for the purpose of "building up Zion," and establishing the kingdom of God. By the spring of 1847, a carefully selected company of exploring pioneers was assembled, well equipped, properly organized and formed into smaller groups with capable captains presiding over each group. The utmost care was given to every detail and their safe arrival at their destination while the country was still under the summer's sway is evidence of great resourcefulness and master- — ful executive ability. Not one member of the company had been lost or seriously injured. All arrived who were expected to. Some few remained at certain posts to aid oncoming companies. And as before stated, the last hundred miles of their journey, though arduous and difficult in every way was made in peace and security and organized harmony prevailed. When the destination was reached, while many were sorely disappointed at the announcement that the end of the long trail had been attained, it was with characteristic clearness of vision and the power to see the resourcefulness of their promised land that Brigham Young uttered those decisive and memorable words: "THIS IS THE PLACE." Reprint—Deseret News To be concluded in July issue.