Sixty Years Ago Excerpts From the Woman's Exponent, December 1, and December 15, 1895 "For THE RIGHTS OF THE WOMEN OF ZION AND THE RIGHTS OF THE WomeEN OF ALL NaArtIoNns" CELEBRATING STATEHOOD: It is expected that the President of the United States will sign the Constitution admitting the new state of Utah into the Union about the first of January 1896. It is anticipated that the inaugural ceremonies will be observed in the Tabernacle.... The military display and parade will be an effective part of the program, the stars and stripes floating to the breeze, the martial music, the beating of drums.... A beacon fire on Ensign Peak... Heralding to the world that in the tops of the Rocky Mountains... A State has grown up unique in... Historical celebrity, the Queen of the West —Editorial 4 ARE WE WORTHY? Yes, this is the question that often arises in my mind; now since we are called Latter-day Saints, are we worthy of this name?... I well remember that after I believed this Gospel to be the same that Jesus taught, and could see plainly it was the same in every respect, I was about to accept it with all my heart, I was asked if I could afford to be called a Saint. I replied ''No, indeed!"" I would not dare to be called a Saint. That would imply one who was holy and had arrived at perfection.... Then I was told by accepting the Gospel and obeying its laws I would thereby arrive at that state, and become a Saint, just as the former day Saints did. She (Balance of Life I fear no more the coming years What they may bring. Days will be sunless, nights bereft of stars; Mayhap the brightest blossoms of the spring Shall first be bound with winter's icy bars. But still beyond the cloud is always light, The stars are in the sky all night, And deepest snows are they which hide the bright Green heart of spring. —Selected RELIEF SOCIETY IN WILLARD, BOX ELDER COUNTY: Our Relief Society was organized on the 12th of August 1895, with our aged President, Sister M. A. Hubbard, (nearly eighty years of age) still acting as president, she has been our president from the first, and her trusty counselors and members feel to try and make her responsibilities as light as possible, and are trying to do all the good they can. There have been some severe cases of typhoid fever here this fall, and some of a lighter form, but all are getting better now.... Praying God to bless all who labor in the good cause. —Bethiah T. Wells, Sec. HELEN KELLER; Helen Keller is said to have the sense of touch so marvelously developed that she can recognize a person's emotions by simply placing her hand upon his or her face, even although the play of feeling is so subtle that the ordinary observer would not detect any change of expression. —Selected. Page 814 Me: FLORA AMUSSEN BENSON was presented the award ions League. Wife of Ezra Taft Benson, a met ber of the Council of the Twelve of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, and Secretary of Agriculture in the Cabinet of Presi dent Eisenhower. Mrs. Benson, mother of six children, was presented the award by Mrs. Florence Friedlander, President ot the League, at a special meeting In Washington, D. C. MR: CALVIN COOLIDGE, a former teacher and president of the board of the Clarke School for the Deaf in Northampton, Massachusetts, was recently appointed director of the centennial fund-raisthis institution. Was a member of the Coolidge, husband, and, later, President of the United States. MR: ZADDIE R. BUNKER, of: California, 4