[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | April | Issue: 21 | Title: EMILY BILLINGS STRINGAM. | Author: Unknown]

EMILY BILLINGS STRINGAM.
	It becomes our painful duty to announce
the death of one of our noble sisters of the 
Thurber Relief Society, Wayne Stake of 
Zion, Emily Billings Stringam, wife of 
George W. Stringam, who passed away 
February 16, 1899, from the effects of la
grippe and typhoid fever, aged forty four
years, three months and five days. She 
leaves a sorrowing mother, husband and 
six children to mourn her loss. 
	We have known and loved her many 
years, her life and labors have been of an 
exemplary character. She was a true and 
sincere friend at all times and in all places. 
Her life has been a noble example from her 
childhood until her spirit took its flight to 
higher realms. May her spirit rest in peace 
until the resurrection morn. She has gone
to meet those who have gone before. She 
endeared herself to a host of friends who 
were greatly attached to her. She has been 
a member of the Thurber Relief Society
ever since its first organization and a teach-
er in the same, one among the first to pay


any donation that was called for. Oh, how
we shall miss her in our society!
		SARAH G. MEEKS, Pres.
		MARY A. GARDNER, Asst. Sec.


WOMAN’S EXPONENT.


A new literary star is being brought to
the attention of the reading world through
the pages of the Woman’s Home Compan-
ion—a clever Japanese girl, Miss Onoto
Watanna, who writes bright stories depict-
ing phases of American and English life in
Japan.
	Mrs. Hetty Green, who is said to be the
richest woman in America, is so pursued
by beggars that she conceals her address
from the public, and her doorplate bears
the inscription, “C. Dewey.” This is the
name of her daughter’s little dog. Com-
modore Dewey, born on the day of the
battle of Manila. “This little terrier sim-
ply runs this whole household,” Mrs
Green said the other day to a reporter for
the New Voice. “We live with him—not
he with us.”


[Column 1]
