[WomansExponent | Vol27 | 1898 | April | Issue: 21 | Title: A PLEASANT GATHERING. | Author: Unknown]

	A PLEASANT GATHERING.
	Mrs. Amelia F. Young celebrated her
father’s eightieth birthday, Elder William
H. Fulsom, at her residence in this city.
Mrs. Young is a charming hostess and in
former days very much accustomed to en-
tertaining large companies, and the affair
proved to be very interesting and enjoyable
to the assembled guests, forty in number.
Among them were Prest. Lorenzo Snow
and wife, Prest. George Q. Cannon and
wife, President Jos, F. Smith and wife,
Apostle Brigham Young and wife, Prest.
Angus M. Cannon and wife, Bishop Geo.
H. Taylor and wife, Bishop Nelson A.
Empey and wife, Hon. T. G. Webber and
wife, Hon. Le Grande Young and wife,
Mrs. Margaret Y. Taylor, Mrs. M. M. Bar-
ratt, Mrs. Chloe R. Eldridge, Mrs. E. Mc-
Donald, Mrs. Mary Gates and others.
	The spacious parlors and dining room
were tastefully decorated for the happy
occasion, Brother Fulsom looked the
picture of health and happiness, and one
could scarcely believe he had seen the
snows of eighty winters, so erect in figure
and in full possession of all his faculties,
with the increase of wisdom that comes
with fulness of years and a well spent life.
	The afternoon was passed in social con-
versation and interchange of ideas, and
when such old friends meet there are many
old-time recollections that are of particular
interest.
	The tables were elegant in white napery
and all the newest style appointments,
decorated with flowers and trailing green
vines, and the guests were waited upon by
four pretty young girls in white who seem-
ingly anticipated the wish of every guest.
	The banquet consisted of the choicest and
most delicate viands, and the hour spent at
table was a delightful one to all. Mrs.
Carlie Young Cannon, a daughter of Brig-
ham Young, presented the guest of honor,
Brother Fulsom, with a handsome bouquet
of rare flowers; and many congratulations
from the distinguished brethren and sisters
present were extended with ardent hopes
for happy returns of the day, and that he
might live as long as life was desirable.
	After dinner when the guests had re-
turned to the lighted parlors, the piano was
opened and Miss Lizzie Fulsom, a
daughter of Brother Fulsom’s, accompanied
his granddaughter, Miss Wallace, while
she sang very sweetly the old song, “The
Memories of the Past,” which was a pleas-
ing feature of the evening.
	Mrs. E. B. Wells read a poem written
for the occasion, which contained a sort of
recital of incidents in the life of the aged
veteran and the wife of his youth, who has
been dead many years. Brother Fulsom
responded to the poem in a few appropriate
remarks, expressing his great pleasure in
meeting so many dear friends and receiving
such fervent congratulations.
	Brother Fulsom was born in Portsmouth,

[Column 2]
N.H., March 25, 1815, and his wife (Mrs.
Young’s mother) Zerviah Clark, in West
Suffolk, Conn., in 1818, both of New Eng-
land birth like so many of the early mem-
bers of the Church. They received the
Gospel and were baptized at the same time,
passing through many trials and hardships
together. They gathered with the Saints
here in 1853, and since that time Elder Ful-
som has occupied many positions of trust
and honor. He was the architect of the
Sanpete Temple at Manti, and has been
prominent in planning and building quite a
number of public structures. He is still
able-bodied and is now constantly em-
ployed in the business of inspecting build-
ings, etc. Brother Fulsom has a large
family of sons and daughters and numerous
grandchildren, and is justly proud of his
posterity.


