The Vacant Lot Something Must Be Done About It Randall L. Jones Special Representative to the General Manager, South-Central District, Union Pacific Railroad

Corrected OCR Transcription
TWO years from now Utah will celebrate the one hundredth anniversary of the arrival of the pioneers in Salt Lake Valley.
July 24, 1847, a small, but determined group of men, women and children, the vanguard of the Mormon pioneers, paused as they emerged from Emigration Canyon for a brief survey of Salt Lake Valley. Led by Brigham Young, they had traveled a thousand miles in search of a new home. After a few minutes study of the Valley, Brigham Young said, "THIS IS THE PLACE, DRIVE ON."
That night, around a camp fire, a tired, thankful, happy band of pioneers sang songs of praise, offered prayers of gratitude, and made a promise "We will make the desert blossom as the rose."
Just what we can do to honor the memory of that brave vanguard centennial cannot at present be determined, but the love trek of tens of thousands of people traveling under the conditions they faced, the conquering of an unconquerable desert, and the building of an empire far from the fringes of civilization, all add up to an event that had a profound bearing on this nation's history, and the hundredth anniversary of such an event cannot by any measure being recorded the finest celebration that conditions will permit.
We would like to invite the world to join in a great celebration. This 1937 legislature proposed a plan for a World's Fair, that Utah might put her national parks, and other scenic attractions on display, and bring people from the far corners of the earth to behold the natural wonders of which we are so justly proud. Before such a plan can be carried out, the war now being waged must end, and travel restrictions lifted. Then, like the careful and proud housewife who is expecting company, we will give the State a thorough house cleaning.
The most serious problem we face in this house-cleaning and rose-blossoming job is the vacant lot. All of us always a night-mare to every community. It is in charge of cleanup campaigns, and the citizen who is proud of his home town.
Every home owner has some pride in his property, and will occasionally clean up the place, even though it takes a lively beautifying campaign to awaken that pride, but there is no one living on the vacant lot, and none of the care of the property washes his hands or the vacant lot, he is merely regarding its appearance. Page  BEFORE AND AFTER Rubbish accumulates rapidly, soon it becomes an ugly spot growing more unattractive daily. The vacant lot is a dumping ground for everything the neighbors want to get rid of. It becomes a breeding place for rats, mice, flies, and other pests; weeds grow, ripen, and the fall winds scatter seeds in every direction. The vacant lot is the sore thumb of the neighborhood, holding down the value, and increasing the upkeep of surrounding property. Experience has taught us the futility of trying to awaken enough civic pride in the soul of the vacant-lot owner to arouse him to the point of keeping his property clean and attractive. I am convinced that the best solution of the vacant-lot problem is to place a law on the statute books that will give authority to cities and towns to compel the owners to keep their property free from weeds, rubbish, or any unsightly material. The owner would then either keep his property in presentable condition, or he would lease it to his neighbors to be put to practical use as a garden, a supervised playground for the neighborhood children, a parking lot, or some other useful purpose, with the understanding that the lessee keep the premises at all times attractive. If the lot cannot be put to practical use, all accumulated rubbish should be removed and shrubs or tall flowers planted across the front parallel to the street.
THE good housekeeper is ready to receive and entertain visitors at any time, her house is always clean and in order. Only by following her example will our towns and cities be made attractive and ready for company at the time we celebrate the one hundredth anniversary of the pioneers' arrival.
We can make our State attractive, even including the vacant lot. We can complete the fulfillment of the promise. We can make the "desert blossom as the rose," by adopting the same co-operation that was preached and practiced by our pioneers.
We all have a share in the beauty, We all have a part in the plan, What does it matter what duty Falls to the lot of man? Someone has blended the plaster, And someone has carried the stone; Neither the man nor the master, Ever has builded alone. Making a roof for the weather, Or building a house for the King, Only by working together Have men accomplished a thing. Author Unknown