gratitude, Marilie could not speak for a moment.  "Eas it come too late, Mother?" queried Betty, mistaking the silence. "Why, bless you, no, my darlings." She was smiling happily. "Maybe I'll have something worth while to write about now I've really lived." Later, when the children were in bed and Jim had gone for a last nightly look around the stables, Marilie passed over to one of the windows in her study and stood gazing out at the flickering shadows of her prairie home. She was thinking, thinking espe- "Tas it come too late, Mother?" Marilie knew that it really had come too late. All down the years her very heart's blood had been given unstintingly for these she loved. It had been give, give, give. She had lived on an intellectual plane with them instead of growing mentally, as_she had fully intended when the writing had been given up. Day by day, with no serious thought independent of their welfare, she had watched these young strangers growing up around her. Continually she excused herself for reading recreatively rather than educationally. Some time, some time, I'll study, she had promised herself. But always she was so busy; and when a few moments were snatched from the day's routine, it seemed so much more restful to read some light story, which would carry her away on wings from the usual happenings of her existence. Now she felt spent, just a littie weary. The fires of youthful ambition were burning low. Could the loss be made up? She knew, within her heart of hearts, that as her life had been spent in giving so manifoldly, she had received in return something far more precious. What it was she couldn't say; but, anyway, it had enriched her being, making it finer than it otherwise would MARILIE'S GHOST 609 have been. Selfishness had no place in her make-up. Perhaps this accounted for the purity of her soul. No creative work on earth can be compared or purposely substituted for motherhood, no matter how opinions may differ on the question. And so, with a thankful heart, Marilie decided that all was as it should be, and knew that, under such conditions, the purest of inspiration would aid her in all future attempts at a literary career. Gratitude By Julia Collard Baker My dreams once held a swelling germ, of high ambitious flight; And worldly Cynics smiled to note that kindling burst of light. When whisked away by atheist's sneer, Faith made me understand. That reaching upward I could hold that flame within my hand. A flower I tended, watered, nursed, ah deep the joy that thrilled me; Uprooted by the storms of night, memory and longing filled me With hope of June, with perfume of the rose that blushed, Shine of the sun that spoke to me, of winter winds now hushed. A little singing bird I found of plumage strangely fair; I pressed it close against my heart, with none its song would share: Till gladdest music from its throat swelled out upon the air And little children caught the song to heart, and held it there. A child was laid upon my breast, on her with generous dower Was lavished Faith, the wild rose's bloom, the Songster's magic power., That radiant life was called above, by Heavenly mandate wise, Which bade me rise and claim the light of service and sacrifice. This day a rapture stirs my soul, nor from it would I flee? The flame of hope, the wild rose scent, song of a bird in glee. Dear God, I thank Thee for the right to Faith, and hope, and light, And memory of the life that sleeps in peace within Thy sight. Pioneers By Lais V. Hales "One Man's Life"?-HERBERT QUICK On the tenth of May, 1925, Herbert Quick, the great novelist of the Middle West, died suddenly. Only a few days before his death he had arranged with "The Saturday Evening Post' to publish in installments his autobiography entitled "One Man's Life." This autobiography has since been published in book form and is a lasting monument to the pioneer life of Iowa. It was begun on the author's sixty-third birthday and tells the story of pioneer days in Iowa as seen by a small boy, a farmer, a teacher, a lawyer, an editor, and a novelist, all of which Mr. Quick successively became during his lifetime. Early in the Spring of 1857 his parents set out for a new and different world. They turned toward the west and soon gazed with dazzled eyes "sheltered under the cupped hands of toil, out over a vast sea of grassy hillocks." These limitless, treeless wastes were the feared and loved prairies of Iowa and it was here that Mr. Quick was born and lived. He lived with the prairie in all her different moods. He saw it struggle with fierce storms, watched the plow destroy it, helped destroy its winding trails, and finally saw it conquered by the great steel engines. This prairie land which was like nothing else in the whole wide world, he came to love. He fished in its small, clear pools fringed by tall grasses. He came to know intimately its animal and vegetable life. Many times he witnessed the great prairie fires in all their terror and beauty and exulted in the new green life that sprang up soon after the fire was gone. He saw this prairie an unending sheet of snow in winter and knew of the great cold waves and blizzards which swept over it, freezing people to death in their beds and destroying their livestock. He watched the unbroken sky-line and clear pools disappear and tall groves of trees, plowed fields, farmsteads, and towns take their place and he felt that a thing of great wonder and beauty was passing away forever. This Iowa prairie Mr. Quick has preserved faithfully and sympathetically for us in his autobiography. He has honestly pictured it as it appeared to our weary