pioneers as they looked out over its limitless stretch and thought of the homes they had left. About Mr. Quick's prairie there is beauty, mystery, cruelty, and wonder. Almost classic is Mr. Quick's description of the "chronicle of the wheat," a thing always so intimately connected with the life of the pioneer. For many years, after the first honk of the wild geese in spring, he helped clean and sow the seed wheat. He watched the sprouting of the seed, the young shoots looking like "the points of bright green nails driven up from PIONEERS 611 below." He saw the wheat grow to maturity and helped to harvest it. Over it all he many times shed tears of pure delight. But a time came when it no longer stood clean and green in the field. Now it was spotted and black with rust. The poetry was all gone out of it. And he watched the farmer, in his ignorance and helplessness, sow the sick wheat year after year, reaping no harvest, until he had spread the disease far and wide over the fertile ground. Not until years later did he see fields of waving corn where the wheat had once stood in all its glory. How well has Mr. Quick expressed the '"'weariness" of the home-loving pioneer woman with but one desire?that of a roof over her head. The meagreness of her life, her delight in small pleasures he sympathetically shows us. In this age of books and magazines almost to the point of satiety, it is difficult for us to understand the time the pioneer woman spent in solitude?mental solitude. This tragic phase of pioneer life Mr. Quick witnessed in his mother and the women with whom she associated. As we read the book we feel the delight that its author derived from writing it. His fine, cheerful personality colors every sentence, Even his tragic youth, marred by infantile paralysis, from which he never wholly recovered, he cheerfully recalls. There is about the book the wholesomeness of the prairie where he lived and worked out his life. He was warmly interested in anything which touched the pioneer and he tells us of their lives in a very companionable honest way. We feel his utter honesty and sympathy with his subject and know that we can here find an authentic description of the early life of Iowa. He has preserved in "One Man's Life" for all time something very fine which has passed away forever.