Our Educational World October sees practically every American college in full swing. Nobody whose opinion is valued pretends to doubt that education is a very important business and that it is becoming increasingly more important as the world advances. Crowded colleges of late have been a matter of much pubiic comment and much private distress to heads of institutions compelled to take care of thousands of young people. Yet it will undoubtedly be a surprise to many people to learn that one-fourth of the people in the United States are engaged in either getting or giving education. Education bids fair to be the nation's biggest business. That it will be, in time, is inevitable. Fortunately we have not carried through all of the problems that were known when the world was young; some have been solved. Constantly an ever-advancing world has brought to us problems unknown to the infant world with its primitive civilization. The problems of a higly specialized civilization can be met only by increasing knowledge; and it is for this purpose that colleges are established, extension courses offered, correspondence schools organized; for it is necessary that light and knowledge shall reach into remote places. No helpful changes, no matter how desirable they may be, can be brought about unless the masses as well as the classes are well informed. While we were in Paris in 1925 we saw on several occasions youths and maidens passing the Pasteur Institute with long loaves of bread under their arms unwrapped, exposed to all the dust of the street. In America today there is scarcely a hamlet that is so out of step with progress that it does not have bread wrapped in paper properly waxed or oiled. It is of little value to France that one of the ablest of her men should have added materially to the germ theory of diseases, if the people go on from decade to decade exposing their bread to all the dirt of a modern city street. The difficulty with France is not that there is a lack of intelligence in upper circles; the difficulty lies in the fact that she does not get her story of scientific achievement with its application over to the people at large. The possession of knowledge by the few does not turn the trick. The Relief Society through its educational program and its social work is helping to spread material that will enable its members to be in the ranks of the great army of progress that is daily rising on stepping stones of its dead self to higher things.