LESSON II Work and Business (Second Week in January)
TEACHERS' TOPIC FOR JANUARY?ACTIVITIES OF THE RELIEF SOCIETY
Purposes of the Work of the Visiting Teacher
I. To be a representative of the unfortunate and sorrowful. At the second meeting of the first Relief Society, the mother of the Prophet Joseph Smith so touched the hearts of the members of the society that they contributed their jewelry that it might be sold to aid the poor. There was then need for some one to seek out the sorrowing and distressed; for the members asked, How can we know who is in need? Thus it was that the visiting teacher was singled out to be a representative of the poor.
II. To be a representative of the Relief Society and its officers. Visiting teachers are authorized to carry messages in behalf of the Relief Society. They thus become the representatives of the organization and the officers of the organization.
III. To be the servant of those who give relief to the needy. People contributing to teachers for charity relief give through the organization, not to it. So the teacher serves the giver by making his contribution valuable; first, by seeking out the poor who are in need; secondly, by causing the money to be pooled that there may be enough to do real good.
IV. To be a friend having charitable and watchful care over the families in her district. It is her business to know the condition of the families in her visiting district. If they are stricken with illness, or if death occurs in the family, or if there is necessity for furnishing food, clothing, or any of the other necessities of life, she should know these wants, in order that they may be communicated to the ward president.
V. To carry the special message provided by the General Board. The teacher stands ready to carry any special message to the people. It may come from her ward president; it may be from the General Board. For a number of years the General Board has furnished a special message under the caption of the Teachers' Topic.


LESSON III