Notes from the Field By Amy Brown Lyman
Cache and Logan Stakes. Cache and Logan stakes joined in decorating a float, called "The Desert Blossomed as the Rose," which won first prize in a parade held in Logan, on July 24. The float contained over fifteen thousand sweet peas, fifteen dozen gladioli, eight dozen blue delphinium, $10 worth of moss, and hundreds of yellow and lavender flowers. Only fresh flowers and greenery were used.
Organizations and Reorganizations. Following is a list of organizations and reorganizations of stake and mission Relief Societies which occurred during the six months between the April and October conferences, 1928. The presidents and their co-workers who have received honorable releases, have also received grateful appreciation for the services they have so nobly rendered the organization.
Alpine Stake was divided July 1, 1928, into Alpine, Lehi and Timpanogos stakes. Mrs. Eliza Buckwalter was released as president, and new officers were appointed as follows: Alpine stake, Mrs. Maude D. Christensen, president; Mrs. Laura Dunkley and Mrs. Lillie Wilde, counselors; Mrs. Mary E. Abel retained as
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 613
secretary; Lehi stake, Mrs. Mina Webb, president; Mrs. Olena Goodwin and Mrs. Clara Webb, counselors; Mrs. Emma Phillips, secretary; Timpanogos stake, Mrs. Ella M. Cragun, president; Mrs. Kate Jacobs and Mrs. Cora Atwood, counselors, and Mrs. Jennie W. Johnson, secretary.
Ensign Stake was reorganized September 25, 1928, when Mrs. Luacine S. Clark was released as president, and Mrs. Alice Bitner Castleton was appointed president, with Mrs. Lucile B. Taylor and Mrs. Ida P. Weiler as counselors, and Mrs. Inga H. Wells, secretary.
Oquirrh Stake was reorganized August 19, 1928; Mrs. Emma S. Jacobs, released; Mrs. Marie Tygesen appointed president; Mrs. Matilda Green and Mrs. Mary Ann Jones, counselors; Mrs. Annie B. Peterson, retained as secretary.
Snowflake Stake was reorganized August 26, 1928; Mrs. Ann S. Shumway released; Mrs. Leonora S. Rogers appointed president; Mrs. Lulu J. Smith and Mrs. Lydia S. Peterson retained as counselors, and Mrs. Pearl N. Fish retained as secretary.
South Sevier Stake was reorganized in July, 1928, when Mrs. Nina A. Hansen was released and Mrs. Ada Anderson was appointed president; Mrs. Annetta Christensen and Mrs. Ada Bateman, counselors; Mrs. Clara Kotter retained as secretary.
Teton Stake was reorganized July, 1928; Mrs. Mary A. Nelson released, Mrs. Ada Fairbanks appointed president; Mrs. Florence Davidson and Mrs. Isabell Paul were appointed counselors, and Mrs. Sadie Love, secretary.
Eastern States Mission was reorganized in August, 1928; Miss Lola R. Bradford, released, and Miss Olita Melville appointed president.
French Mission was reorganized in September, 1928; Mrs. Venus R. Rossiter, released; her successor has not yet been appointed.
New Zealand Mission was reorganized April, 1928, when Mrs. Cora S. Jenkins was released and Mrs. Jennie Magleby was appointed president.
Swiss-German Mission was reorganized in 1928, when Mrs. Sarah R. Cannon was released and Mrs. Eliza W. Tadje was appointed president.
Western States Mission was reorganized in April, 1928, when Mrs. Florence R. Knight was released and Mrs. Elias S. Woodruff was appointed president.
Summer Outings for Children. Through the cooperation of the General Board with a number of stake Relief Societies and with other organizations, seventy-one children from Salt Lake City, needing fresh air and sunshine and good food, were given an opportunity to spend some time in


the country during the summer school vacation. Sixteen children went to North Davis stake, twenty-five to Franklin and Oneida stakes, eight to Kolob stake, and four to South Davis stake. Eight boys went to the Boys Camp at Mueller Park, through the courtesy of the Exchange Club, and ten extremely underweight children, possible tuberculosis contacts, were taken by the Utah Public Health Association to the health camp in Big Cottonwood Canyon for six weeks. All the children returned home in greatly improved condition.
SUMMER ACTIVITIES:
Juarez Stake. The Relief Society women of Juarez stake were greatly favored during the summer by attending a course of special lectures given under the auspices of the stake for class teachers, by Dr. Amos N. Merrill of the Brigham Young University, Provo, Utah. Among the subjects discussed were "The Relief Society, Its Place and Function in the Church," "The Role of Women in the March of Human Progress," and "Methods of Attacking Local Problems."
North Davis Stake. Among the topics discussed in the ward conferences which were held during the summer in North Davis stake were the following: "What does it mean to sustain a ward officer?" "What the Relief Society does for its Members," "What is Relief Work?" and "How do the Ward Relief Societies Cooperate with the Bishopric in Relief Work?"
Carbon Stake. The Carbon stake has conducted a campaign during the summer among the various wards in the interest of civic pride, the slogan being "Beautify Back Yards." Castle Gate ward received the cash prize for having conducted the most effective campaign. The members of the stake board were hostesses to the class leaders and executive officers of the fourteen wards of the stake at the annual convention held in the tabernacle at Price, Utah, on August 28. A luncheon and exhibit of needlework, fruits, vegetables and flowers were held in connection with the convention.
Bear River Stake. The Bear River stake held a semi-centennial review during the summer, which was adapted by Mrs. Della Marriott from the Relief Society Review, (written by Claire Stewart Boyer and presented by the Salt Lake county stakes last April) for the celebration, making a complete history of the Relief Society work in Box Elder, Malad and Bear River stakes. The Bear River stake grew out of the Box Elder and Malad stakes, which joined with
NOTES FROM THE FIELD 615
the Bear River stake in celebrating the semi-centennial. The review also included the history of the Lamanite Relief Society at Washakie. In connection with the class leaders' convention which was held early in September, an exhibition of summer work and a flower display were held.
Big Horn Stake. The Big Horn stake board met in May and outlined the following summer program which was used successfully by the wards during the summer: July 3, Testimony, subject, Temple Work; July 10, Pioneer Days in the Big Horn; July 17, Better Films; July 24, Folk songs and dances; July 31, One-Act Play; August 7, Testimony, subject, the M. I. A. Slogan; August 14, Art in the Home; August 21, Open-Air Social, the Priesthood as guests; August 28, One-Act Play; September 4, Testimony, subject Signs of the Times; September 11, Sketches of Lives of Political Candidates; September 18, Demonstration of Table and Food Decorations; September 25, One-Act Play.
For the year 1927, the attendance of the Big Horn stake Relief Society at regular meetings was about 8% below the general average of the Relief Societies of the Church. In order to raise the standard, an attendance contest was arranged between the wards to be on the percentage basis. It was agreed that at the end of the year the winning ward should be entertained by the ward having the lowest average. To date, the attendance has increased over 17%. Records are being sent to the wards listing their standing in the stake in attendance at regular meetings, at officers' and prayer meetings, the percentage of teachers' visits made and the general activities each month. This is a splendid way of checking up and has kept up the interest in the contest.
In April, Miss Elsie Witchen, a representative of the United States Children's Bureau, gave a series of lectures in Big Horn County, followed up by children's clinics, the Relief Societies cooperating. The clinics were held in four different towns, examining two hundred eighty-five children. Of this number twenty-one had rickets; one hundred sixteen were under weight and two hundred thirty-seven defective. It was something of a shock to find so many physical defects, and steps have already been taken to overcome this condition. Seven flower shows have been held in the stake during the summer, showing the increased interest in careful planting, selection and display of flowers, and greater abundance. The aim next year is a shrub for every family. During the month of September, class leaders and teachers conventions were held. The stake was divided into two groups for these conventions, one group meeting at Burlington and one at Lovell.
Guide Lessons for January
LESSON I (First Week in January)
THE NEW COURSE
A number of appeals have been made from the field to have the course of study begin after the summer vacation. As a result the executive committee took the matter under advisement and decided to outline a course for six months beginning in January and ending in June, the course for the following year to begin in October when work resumes after the summer vacation. The three courses presented will be: first, one in practical religion; secondly, one in modern drama and, thirdly, a continuation of the lessons in social service. The course in practical religion will consist of lessons on the following subjects: conscience, purity, honesty, temperance, industry, loyalty. The course in literature will consist of six modern plays, each emphasizing a social problem of a nature that we trust will be interesting to Relief Society members. These dramas are: Nowadays, by George Middleton; The Devil's Disciple, by George Bernard Shaw; He and She, by Rachel Crothers; What Every Woman Knows, by James Matthew Barrie; Joseph and His Brethren, by Louis N. Parker; and The Doll's House, by Henrik Ibsen. The social service lessons, which during the past year have been devoted to a course in child-study, will resume lessons on the same subject. The books containing the dramas will be for sale at the Deseret Book Company, 44 East South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. A price list will be published by the magazine, as soon as the books are received by the Deseret Book Company.
EVERY DAY ETHICS AND PRACTICAL RELIGION AND TESTIMONY
A series of six lessons will be presented under this title. The major objective of the lessons as a whole is to increase an interest in a thoughtful search for the right, in a judicious choice of the right, and in acting right for the love of right itself as well as for the love of others and ourselves. At the same time we shall keep in view the fact that as the mariner's compass must constantly be adjusted by observa-