Utah Autumn By Dowers Cornwall There's haze that dreams on the Utah hills, And the trees of green drip gold; Where sunflakes dance on quavering boughs, There is scent of leafy mould. Come mellowed, mauve-dusted, gypsy days, With coo] whispers stirring through, A burst of red is the canyon side, The sky is a bowl of blue. There comes a quiver of rainbow days, Come days with a rusty gleam, Days that are real, and are yet unreal, Like the pattern of a dream. Breezes are chanting a sad farewell, There's a waning plaint and sigh, Sweet prelude of the long sleeping time, Wearied summer's lullaby. An Old Wagon Cover 'By Josephine G. Moench Flora sat by the window with her sewing in her lap and her hands lying idle as she gazed with a serious face out of the window. The first little blustery snow storm had come very early; and as Flora watched the wind blowing the snow about, she wondered seriously just how she and Will were going to get the children's clothing for the winter. In the early days of Utah Flora and Will were pioneers to a little town south of Salt Lake. Everyone was finding it very difficult to get food and clothing; but Flora, being an expert seamstress, had, by a great deal of planning, kept the children comfortably clothed up until then, and by handing down and making over she would be able to make outer garments for them all. But the underwear? By any stretch of her imagination she could not expect that which they had worn through the year and which had been mended until the original garment was beyond recognition, to last through this winter. She remembered on so many occasions how she had trusted the future to providence, which had not failed her; so, with hope springing in her heart, she took up her sewing, thinking the while, that the beautiful Indian summer would come after the storm and there would be no need for worry until that was over. Hearing the sound of wagon wheels, Flora looked up to see a covered wagon stopping at the gate; the driver climbed out and walked briskly to the door. "Is this Mrs. Thomas?" asked the gentleman. "Yes," answered Flora. "I have been told," he said, "that you are an expert needle woman and have come to see if you will mend our wagon covers. This sudden storm has made us realize that we must have our wagon covers in good condition before we continue our journey to California. One of the covers is too light weight for traveling through such wilderness and if you are willing we will give you the cover to pay for your work." Willing? Was ever anyone so fertunate? The light weight wagon cover would do to make the children's underwear. With a song in her heart Flora set to work and conscientiously mended the wagon covers. The traveler was profuse i in his appreciation and thanks, and went on his way rejoicing over his storm-proof covers. Flora had sewed many fine materials but never before had AN OLD WAGON COVER 633 she been more careful in cutting not to waste, and more absorbed in her task. After bleaching the finished garments on the grass, in the good old-country way, she washed and ironed them carefully. Was it magic that had transformed the old wagon cover into the neat pile of underwear? No. Just a woman's skill combined with a mother's faith and a mother's love.