An Immigrant Mother and Her Son By Adah Roberts Naylor
Chapter I
HER name was Ann Everington, and her home was in Norfolk, England. She was very fair—blue eyes set far apart—light hair with glints of gold, and the fresh complexion of a young English girl. Since her parents were both dead she supported herself by working in a shop where she trimmed hats, and did fine "stitching" for the grand ladies of the countryside.
The Everingtons had lived for many generations in Norfolk. They were of Anglo-Saxon descent, and there was in Ann much of the somber seriousness of that race. It was her nature to be studious and in her spare moments she read the books that were to be had, and gave much thought to the meaning and purpose of life.
When she was twenty-one, she met a young blacksmith,—Ben Roberts by name. He had a sunny, genial nature, was dark and tall—proud of the fact that he measured six feet one in his stocking feet. There was something about his light hearted, easy-going ways that attracted Ann, and he in turn loved her for her high ideals, her ambitions, her serious-mindedness, and her gold hair.
The following year, June 15th, 1848, they were married, but unfortunately the "story book ending" cannot be recorded—they did not live happily ever afterwards. Their aims, their desires, the things they asked of life were too divergent, and there was ever with them a fierce economic struggle.
THE first child was a son, and named for his father, Ben Roberts—but he lived only a few months. Then two daughters were born. The elder was given the name of Mary and the younger one they called Annie. With her growing family Ann felt the need of establishing a home—an abode that would be something more than a shelter. She had an abhorrence of the cheap and the shoddy and she longed to surround her children with an atmosphere of the permanent—of the lasting things of life. But this desire seemed far beyond their reach, Ben was often out of work and they were forced to move from place to place living wherever employment could be found.
IN order to augment their uncertain income, Ann took in fine sewing for the English gentry, and often in the evening she would walk several miles to deliver a "finished piece." One night as she passed through the streets she was attracted by a gathering of people on one of the busy corners. A man was singing in a clear tenor voice, the song ended, and Ann paused a moment; he was speaking of America. "A land blessed above all other lands"—"A land of liberty—Where Zion is to be built in the tops of the mountains"—"A Zion unto which all peoples shall gather." She stopped for a while and listened and then passed on, somewhat troubled in her mind about "the gathering of Israel" which the speaker had described. She sat up late that night reading her Bible, and pondering in her heart the words she had heard.
The next evening Ann made herself ready and went out in search of the street preacher. This time she waited until he had finished speaking, then talked with him, and obtained some of his literature which she carried home and carefully studied. She tried to interest her husband in this new faith—this new Zion—this new-old gospel of the brotherhood of man, but he would listen to none of it. And so it was that she went alone and was baptized a member of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
IN 1857 at Warrington, a second son was born. The father chose the name of Henry for him, and Henry he was christened, but Ann took him secretly to the Missionaries and had him blessed Brigham Henry Roberts in honor of the great Mormon leader whom she had come to so ardently admire.
ANN was everything that she was with all the intensity of her deep strong nature, and so she became a Latter-day Saint with all her mind, with all her heart, and with all her soul. Her constant prayer was that her husband would be converted. Finally swept along by her enthusiasm he was baptized, but he was ever luke warm, and took no part in the activities of the Branch of the Church of which they were members.
BEN was an expert horseshoer, and sometime previous to his baptism he had attached himself to the stables of an English nobleman, who had a string of horses that were exhibited at the Fairs and the racetracks. There was always drinking and gambling at the Races and Ben fell in with a rough crowd. His work took him away from home a great deal of the time and Ben often failed to send his pay check to the little family.
And now a third son came—Thomas, and there was within Ann an insatiable desire to go to America—to take her little brood to Zion where they would be numbered among the "chosen people," and her sons would have the opportunities of a new land. But Ben refused to consider such a move and the breach grew wider and wider between them.