New Year By Elise B. Alder Given over KSL, December 30, 1932 IT appears that among all nations and in all ages the first day of the new year has been and is regarded not only as a holiday but also an especially holy day, a day of glad rejoicing and of reverent worship." It seems that He whose birthday we celebrate on December 25th took what was good in men and moulded it to higher uses and that no doubt is why the Season of His birth has won such an intimate place in the heart of mankind. Memory can be filled full of things to be remembered. No soul is entirely destitute of blessings. No man has yet numbered the blessings, the mercies, the joy of God. Weare all richer than we think and if we once set ourselves to reckoning up the things of which we are glad, we shall be astonished at their number. J. R. Miller says in A Greeting to the New Year: 'We are on the threshold of a New Year. We do not know what the year holds for us but we are not afraid of it. We have learned to look for kindness and goodness in all our paths, and so we go forward with glad hope and expectation full of a desire to improve. "He came to my desk with a quivering lip, The lesson was done— 'Dear teacher, I want a new leaf,' he said, 'I have spoiled this one.' In place of the leaf so stained and blotted, I gave him a new one all unspotted,  And into his sad eyes smiled— 'Do better now, my child.' "I went to the throne with quivering soul, The old year was done— 'Dear Father, hast Thou a new leaf for me, I have spoiled this one?' He took the old leaf stained and blotted, And gave me a new one all unspotted. And into my sad heart smiled— 'Do better now, my child.' " WE made a good many failures in the past year. The New Year is a chance to try again with a hope of doing better. The New Year a golden gate of opportunity for improvement. The chances of life are open anew. Mary G. Grainard in her "The New Year Meditation" says: "I see not a step before me As I tread on another year But the past is still in God's keeping The future His mercy shall clear And what lookg dark in the distance May brighten as I draw near." One New Year's eve a trembling! Young man who in the year Just closing had been greatly helped by a strong friendship, said to the friend who had given the help, "May I put my hand in yours for another year?" The answer was, "Yes, but in Christ's first." "There is no other hand that can guide us safely through the new and strange experiences and we need great watchfulness if we would make the voyage of the year in safety. If we love God we shall love our brother also. We make gladness for ourselves only when we do our duty well as we can. It never can be found in selfishness." One author says: "He is dead whose hand is not open wide To help the need of a human brother, He doubles the length of his life long ride Who gives his fortunate place to another; And a thousand million lives are his Who carries the world in his sympathies. To give is to live!" We must learn to view the past successes we have achieved with satisfaction and look steadfastly to the future and what it holds out to be accomplished, and muster up our determination to do what we can to make the world better. Past failures and disappointments are to be forgotten and doubts and misgivings are to be banished from thoughts and meditations. If we are at war with conditions and environments the first step is to get at peace with ourselves. Bury our grievances, forget all wrongs and begin all over again. Channing Pollack says: "The art of living is a process of selections" —Life is a game. We can play it squarely with all there is in it or we can cheat and try to get results by short cuts. This means failure in the end. To get the best results in our search for happiness we must follow one fundamental rule—Choose the truth. With Tennyson we say: "Ring out, wild bells, to the wild sky The flying clouds the frosty light The year ig dying in the night Ring out wild bells and let him die. "Ring out the old ring in the new Ring happy bells, across the snow The year is going, let him go Ring out the false, ring in the true. "Ring out the want, the care, the sin The faithless coldness of the times. Ring out, ring out my mournful rhymes But ring the fuller minstrel in. "Ring in the valiant man and free The larger heart, the kindlier hand Ring out the darkness of the land Ring in the Christ that ig to be." Let the New Year be free from wrong doing, a year of service, a year of trust in God, and it will be a happy year from first to last. It may be the hardest year we have known but it will be the happiest if we will earnestly try to make it a bigger, brighter one for ourselves and for the world in which we live.