Happenings By Annie Wells Cannon THE New Year is like the dawn. Face the dim light bravely, for the sun is just over the rim. MAUD ADAMS, famous actress, remembered her birthplace—Salt Lake City—with a gift of oil portraits of herself, painted by noted artists. The pictures now form a part of the Art Barn collection. MAXINE ELLIOT made a recent visit to the scenes of her meteor-like stage career. Though she was most successful and greatly admired, she experiences no regrets for the old life, but prefers her beautiful home in Cannes, France, where she lives in retirement. MARIA VICTORIA CANDIA is indeed a heroine. As chief nurse in the Chaco War, her fight against suffering and disease under most frightful conditions, equals that of Florence Nightingale in the Crimea. MISS JUANITA MARTIN of Geneva, Illinois, recently superintended a big construction job with such efficiency, that the mayor and citizens of her home town gave her name to a beautiful park. STRANGE VICTORY," is the title of the little volume containing 22 unpublished poems of the late Sarah Teasdale. "The Shadow of the End" seems to touch these lyrics but in no way mars their loveliness. AURANIA ROUNEROL (Bob Ellerbeck, a Salt Lake girl) has produced a new play, "Growing Pains," which is making quite a hit in New York as a juvenile play. Besides her young daughter who has the title role, Anne Erskine, daughter of the writer and critic, John Erskine, appears in the caste. MISS JENNIE SCHOFIELD of Utah, is recreational director of Morristown, New Jersey. She graduated with honors from the National Recreation school in New York, last year. Mrs. L. M. ALEXANDER'S book "Candy," a story concerned with Negro Life in the Savannah river valley, was the $10,000 prize winer in the contest conducted by the Pictorial Review and Dodd-Mead Company. ELIZABEH FOREMAN LEWIS, won the Newberry medal for the most distinguished contribution to American literature for children. Her story "Young Fu of the Yangtze," tells of the experiences of a Chinese boy who sees old traditions pass before modern civilization. VERA BRITTAIN'S "Testament of Youth," a story of the World War and post war period, is classed as the best story yet produced on that tragic subject. It is beautifully and truly literary in composition. A story to be read with care for its gripping realism and honesty. MADAM COLETTE, French novelist, has been offered the chair of French literature and language by the Academy of Belgium. ALICE DUER MILLER'S "Gowns by Roberta," Alice Roosevelt's "Crowded Hours," "After Such Pleasures," by Dorothy Parker and "Mr. Pete," by Alice Hegan Rice, are some of the recent books by women writers claimed among the best sellers.