Moral Mountain Ranges By Carlton Culmsee RY to make me!" That was the retort which my father, a small-town physician, received when he attempted to persuade a Sunday school superintendent of the necessity of obeying quarantine regulations. The man was a hard churchworker and highly respected in his community, but he' would not inconvenience himself to protect the health of others. A family whom I know, look with sincere horror upon dancing but have been known to appropriate small articles of property that do not belong to them. An elderly lady with whom I stayed for a time as a boy would not drink coffee. But she served me my first drink of intoxicating liquor. These cases exemplify the bewildering uneveness in almost every person's morals. Anyone can recall other examples showing that the average human being has no "plane of ethics" but a moral mountain range full of lofty eminences and shadowy canyons. Beside a pinnacle of virtue sometimes yawns an astonishing chasm of error. This sketch does not refer to outand-out criminals. It refers to people who are respectable or think they are, but who believe that compromises with Christian ethics are continually being justified by necessity. It has to do with those farmers who sell diseased potatoes as healthy ones, old and faulty animals as sound ones; those storekeepers who sell defective articles to transients or who advertise in misleading ways; those lawyers and bankers whose dealings must frequently be euphemized as "sharp practices." Many such persons exist. Their shady dealings possess 'in many instances the dignity of ancient usage. For example, caveat emptor has been the motto of horse-traders from time immemorial. And then there are a great many more people, upright most of the time, who have small breaches in their ethical armor. I know a righteous and excellent lady. Once she was observed inclosing a letter in a parcel post package. When reminded that she was violating a postal regulation, she smiled ingenuously and said, "Oh, they'll never know!" Sometimes it seems that every second person, for a lark, has purloined a "souvenir" spoon or salt cellar or towel from a hotel or a dining car. Too many sweatshirts and other items of athletic equipment vanish from college training quarters. Too many books and lunches and rubbers are stolen at institutions of higher learning. New Year's is a good time for us to take an ethical inventory of ourselves. If we scrutinize our stock of scruples keenly, all of us will find at least a few empty shelves. And few will find themselves overstocked with the staple principles of right living.