Notes to the Field To Our Class Leaders RE you having discussion in the lesson work? If not, your members are losing rare opportunity for development. Remember our Relief Society sessions are not just for readings or lectures, but for the most complete development of the members. We hear that some teachers are trying to put over so much that their classes go away in a maze. The lessons are so rich that the wise teacher will give a general idea of the complete lesson and emphasize what to her are the things that will appeal most strongly to her class and that she feels will be of most value to them and interest them most keenly. Literature—Hebrew Music HE Hebrews lacked the artistic side of life, but they emphasized the spiritual. They thought sculpture was irreligious and painting fared no better. Their tabernacle was a tent, and Solomon had to hire a foreigner to build the temple. Their natures were deficient in dramatic ability. Their only artistic ability was lyric poetry and extemporized song. The harp was about the only instrument used, and this was small and portable so that the player carried it with him wherever he went. The voice transcended the instrument, so Hebrew music was vocal. To "prophesy" meant to sing. Isaiah, Jeremiah and others sang their prophecies. Thus music was not an art but a form of speech. The psalms were in two parts— men and, women responding to one another. Sometimes there was a solo with a chorus responding, or two groups of women answering each other. After the Israelites passed over the Red Sea, ""Miriam' a prophetess, took a timbrel in her hand, and all the women went out after her with timbrel and dances' The Song of Miriam, Exodus chapter 15. Verses 20-21. The Song of Moses—Ex. 15:1-20. The women answered one another in singing when Saul and David returned from the battle with the Philistines. The music of the Hebrews was not harmonious. Music among them was a voice in which they poured forth their souls. These poets of God sang praises and the might of God to a nation filled with a belief in Deity, and this is why "the fame of the brightest minnesinger shrinks to a speck before the majesty of Isaiah." Read the "Song of Deborah" Judges chapter 5. Sing—'"Down by the River's Verdant Side"'—Psalmody No. 92. Social Service "Try It Again"—S. S. Book, 156. Children sing: "A Story"—Primary Songs, 79. "Come Along, Come Along'"— S. S. Book, 188. Suggestions for January: Theology and Teacher Training. "Improve The Shining Moments." NOTES TO THE FIELD 47 "How Firm a Foundation." "What Shall The Harvest Be." "Beautiful Words of Love." Work and Business. Have happy music and a cheerful program. "Bright New Year," School Song Book—18o. "Catch The Sunshine," S. S. Book —14, "The Quilting Party," Pioneer Songs—17. Rounds. Sunday Congratulations to our Magazine Agents WE wish we could express our appreciation to the wonderful women in our stakes and wards who have been responsible for the magnificent campaign for subscriptions to our Relief Society Magazine. The resourcefulness and ingenuity of our women found most clever and attractive methods of conducting this. 'We have always felt that we had in Relief Society the most loyal and enthusiastic women in the world —women who respond to every type of service asked of them. Naturally in times like the present, when tales of distress reach us from every side, we have not been surprised to hear of heroic efforts to feed the hungry and clothe the naked, but our sisters have not forgotten that "man does not live by bread alone." Never before have we needed spiritual guidance and education as we do today, to face new and changing conditions, and help us to solve the difficult problems presented by these strenuous times.  Returns are not complete, but word comes that Maricopa Stake has ten wards that have gone over the top; Star Valley stake reports Freedom Ward; Fremont stake, Rexburg Second Ward has equalled the record of a year ago, with its 100%; Grant stake, Burton Ward; Liberty stake, Eighth and Ninth Wards; Ensign stake, Twenty-seventh, Twentieth, Twelfth-thirteenth and Ensign Wards, were among those on the honor roll. We know there are many others, and shall be very happy to add them to the list if they will but let us have the information here at the office. We hope the enthusiasm which has carried them to the splendid success this Fall will hold out during the New Year. From our hearts we thank them, and know they must feel the thrill which comes from success in a splendid cause. Important Notice OME time ago special permission was given to sell single copies of the Magazine in a stake. The purpose was to get the subscriptions started, and it was never intended to be a general practice. Unfortunately this has spread to such an extent that it threatens to disrupt the Mailing Department of the Magazine? It is, therefore, necessary to discontinue this procedure. The Deseret Book Store has the Relief Society Magtzine for sale along with other Church publications, but other than this, no single copies of the Magazine will be avail- able. Six months subscriptions are accepted.  Birthday Parties WE have attended a number of delightful birthday parties in stakes and wards and have found nothing more pleasing to the guests than the novelty of finding their place at the table signifying the season of their natal day. We suggest that the decorations be kept simple, within reach of any ward and still as attractive as they can be made. Each table singing songs suggesting the season, creates a pleasant little rivalry adding to the pleasure of the day. Handwork — WE enjoyed meeting supervisors of handwork and to see the interest being taken in this part of our work. We were asked by some to print mstructions for this work, but we wish to say again that every teacner must ascertain the needs of her locality and find the ability of every woman in her ward and have them teach the class the special piece of handwork in which she excels. Warning Word comes to us that a young man is soliciting subscriptions for our Magazine. Only our ward officers are authorized to take subscriptions. We regret that some have been defrauded by one unauthorized who takes the money and does not turn in the subscription to the Magazine office. Literature and Music Departments Combined in Oquirrh Stake Relief Societies UST when we first began to dream of such a department I cannot remember, exactly, but our dreams were prompted by many things. We believed that if the local choristers and organists met with the local class leaders, at union meeting, and heard our lesson discussed, they could better interpret it with their music. Through visiting in the various wards, we discovered that some local choristers and organists were able to arrange exceptionally rich musical backgrounds for certain lessons while others could not; yet at a later lesson these other wards had been able to excel. This made us feel that we needed a place where ideas in music could be exchanged as well as a place where the stake music committee could suggest their own 'With the local choristers and organists added to the literary department the stake chorister and organist automatically became my assistants. It is now recorded in the minutes that there are three class leaders instead of one as has hitherto been. We meet weeks ahead and plan our class period conducting it almost as we would do in a ward. The chorister announces and introduces all music used. We plan what moment it should be given to be most advantageous. By introduction I mean that after she announces a selection she tells them something NOTES TO THE FIELD 49 about it so that all can see why she has chosen it. As an example, next lesson is "The Roman Point of View," and we have chosen for it the song, "'Lo, the Conquering Hero Comes." It will be given after Shakespeare's Julius Ceasar. From the choristers notes I give here a line or two of her introduction for that song. "Lo, the Conquering Hero Comes" is taken from the opera Judas Macceabeus by Handel. Judas has been away to war and returns home victorious and glad, etc., etc. There is other music of course for this lesson but I can only mention "The Soldier's Chorus" from Faust and "Sound An Alarm." At the end of the class period the stake organist suggests music that will correlate with the other lessons of the month. We have had, on different occasions some very pleasing short talks from the music officers. Two of them were entitled: Music and its Beginning and Music and its place in Literature. We realize this is a new field and that there are many, undoubtedly, who could plan and carry forward in it better than we. Suill it has solved some of our problems and we hope it will yet solve many more. There are other stakes who having heard of this are adopting it and are enthusiastic about it. We wish them success. Linnie Fisher Robinson, Lavina Day Neilson and Everean Solomon. Conventions and Conferences General Board members visited Relief Society stake conventions and conferences, which were held in the stakes during 1933, as follows: Alberta—Nettie D. Bradford Alpine—Cora L. Bennion Bannock—Julia A. F. Lund Bear Lake—Ida Peterson Beal Bear River—Rosannah C. Irvine Beaver—Jennie B. Knight Benson—Inez Kk. Allen Big Horn—Nettie D. Bradford Blackfoot—Elise B. Alder Blaine—Elise B. Alder Boise—Emeline Y. Nebeker Box Elder—Marcia K. Howells Burley—Julia A. F. Lund Cache—-Rosannah C,. Irvine Carbon—Kate M. Barker Cassia—Lotta Paul Baxter Cottonwood—Lotta Paul Baxter Curlew—Inez K. Allen Deseret—Julia A. F. Lund Duchesne—Inez K. Allen East Jordan—Lalene H. Hart Emery—Elise B, Alder Ensign—Hazel H. Greenwood Franklin—Annie Wells Cannon Fremont—Marcia K. Howells Garfield—Kate M. Barker Granite—Kate M. Barker Grant—Amy W. Evans Gunnison—Marcia K. Howells Hollywood—Inez K. Allen Hyrum—Mary C, Kimball Idaho—Emeline Y. Nebeker Idaho Falls—Elise B. Alder Juab—Rosannah C. Irvine Juarez—Ethel R. Smith Kanab—Cora L. Bennion Kolob—Ethel R. Smith Lehi—Louise Y. Robison Lethbridge—Nettie D, Bradford Liberty—Lotta Paul Baxter Logan—Julia A. F. Lund Log Angeles—Inez K. Allen Lost River—Kate M. Barker Lyman—Julia A. F. Lund Malad—Emeline Y. Nebeker Maricopa—FEthel R, Smith Millard—Louise Y. Robison Minnidoka—Julia A. F. Lund Moapa—Julia A. F. Lund Montpelier—Amy W. Evans Morgan—Julia A. F, Lund Moroni—Julia A. F. Lund Mount Ogden—Ethel R. Smith Nebo—Jennie B. Knight Nevada—Amy W. Evans North Davis—-Kate M. Barker and Cora L. Bennion North Sanpete—Hazel H. Greenwood North Sevier—Kate M. Barker North Weber—Hazel H. Greenwood  Ogden—Amy W. Evans Oneida—Amy W. Evans Oquirrh—Lalene H. Hart, Elise B. Alder and Hazel H, Greenwood Palmyra—Rosannah C. Irvine Panguitch—Louise Y. Robison Parowan—Annie Wells Cannon Ptoneer—Cora L. Bennion Pocatello—Jennie B. Knight Portneuf—Nettie D. Bradford Raft River—Marcia K. Howells Rigby—Ida Peterson Beal Roosevelt—Elise B. Alder St. George—Nettie D. Bradford St. Johns—Jennie B. Knight St. Joseph—Ethel R. Smith Salt Lake—Amy Brown Lyman San Francisco—Amy Brown Lyman San Juan—Mary C. Kimball San Luis—Mary C. Kimball Sevier—Cora L. Bennion Sharon—Inez K, Allen Shellev—Ethel R. Smith Snowflake—Jennie B. Knight South Davis—Amy Brown Lyman South Sanpete—Louise Y. Robison South Sevier—Jennie B. Knight Star Valley—Marcia K. Howells Summit—Nettie D. Bradford Taylor—Nettie D. Bradford Teton—Kate M, Barker Timpanogos—Annie Wells Cannon Tintic—Nettie D. Bradford Tooele—Ethel R. Smith Twin Falls—Elise B. Alder Uintah—Mary C. Kimball Union—Emeline Y. Nebeker Utah—Mary C. Kimball Wasatch—Amy Brown Lyman Wayne—Louise Y. Robison Weber—Louise Y. Robison West Jordan—Annie Wells Cannon Woodruff—Marcia K. Howells Yellowstone—Annie Wells Cannon Young—Mary C. Kimball Zion Park—Louise Y.