EDITORIAL 53 Lesson Department Theology and Testimony (First Week in March) INTELLIGENCE AND FUTURE LIFE 1. Saved by Grace. Many Christians prefer to believe that salvation is a free gift from God, quite independent of deserts, and given to whomsoever the Lord wills. According to this concept, the individual plays but little part in the matter of salvation. It is the gift of God, often unearned and undeserved. To obtain it one must receive divine favor.. The gift is immediate and complete. It delivers the individual from the punishment and power of sin, and thus exempts from spiritual death. In support of this belief its advocates cite the following statement of the Apostle Paul to the saints at Ephesus: "For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves; it is the gift of God: not of works, lest any man should boast." (Ephesians 2: 8, 9.) 2. It is not the purpose of this discussion to question the statement that salvation is a free gift from God, indeed rather to emphasize it. It is doubtful that even man's fondest admirers entertain the thought that he alone has sufficient power to carry himself back into the presence of God. On the contrary, his impotence in this respect is widely admitted. If, therefore, man ever attains such heights, he can do so only by means of divine help. 3. It can hardly be agreed, however, that Deity would distribute this gift to the good and bad alike. If such were the case, justice would disappear. The attitude of the Savior in this respect may be likened to that of a philanthropist who decided to offer a free fellowship at a great educational institution. Being the giver, he naturally possessed the right to name the conditions under which the fellowship should be offered. Good character, high scholarship, and ability to get along well with associates, were among the principal qualifications specified. The amount of the fellowship and the extent of its duration were also named by the endower. Now, it cannot be doubted that such a gift is absolutely free, even though the one receiving it is required to meet certain rigid specifications. Just so, salvation is a free gift from God. It would be far more unreasonable for Deity to distribute the gift of salvation indiscriminately among the good and the bad, than it would be for the philanthropist to give scholarships to poor students as well as to good ones. Thus, although salvation is a free gift from God, those who receive it must comply with the conditions upon which it is given. 4. The Nature of Intelligence. "Intelligence" is widely defined by dictionary authority as readiness of comprehension, ability to exercise higher mental functions, discernment, capacity to understand, etc. This, however, is inadequate, since an individual might possess all these qualifications, and yet at times act very unintelligently. For example: a physician or dietitian, who fully understands the deleterious effects of alcohol, would not be regarded as intelligent if he frequently resorted LESSON DEPARTMENT 95 to its use. Similiarly, Satan cannot be regarded as intelligent, even though he is thoroughly familiar with the truths of the gospel. Thus, intelligence connotes not only a thorough understanding of matters but the capacity to act properly in the premises. If the physician were truly intelligent he would never resort to the use of alcoholic beverages. Likewise, if Satan were intelligent he would not oppose the cause of God. 5. The Lord has defined intelligence, as "light and truth" or the "light of truth" (Doc. And Cov. 93: 37-29) Jesus said, "I am the Light of the World: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life." (I John 8:12) Truth is defined by the Savior as "knowledge of things as they are, and as they were, and as they are to come." Doc. And Cov. 93: 24. Intelligence, then, involves a knowledge of things as they are, coupled with a sufficient quantity of the Spirit of God to act in accordance with wisdom and good judgment. 6. Future Life. Future life is a continuation of the present one, influenced in a very literal sense by the deeds performed while on the earth. It is not a condition of sinless bliss or agonizing damnation thrust upon the individual by a capricious god. In the begining, Deity, with our approval, outlined a plan by which man could be brought back into his presence; the progress made possible thereby was predicated upon compliance with law. Concerning this, the Lord subsequently said: "There is a law, irrevocably decreed in heaven before the foundations of this world, upon which all blessings are predicated?and when we obtain any blessing from God, it is by obedience to that law upon which it is predicated." (D. And C. 130:20, 21.) Again: "Whatever principle of intelligence we attain unto in this life, it will rise with us in the resurrection. And if a person gains more knowledge and intelligence in this life through his diligence and obedience than another, he will have so much advantage in the world to co m e." (D. And C. 130:18, 19.) 7. The widely accepted belief among sectarians that sinful man can be forgiven of his transgressions and transferred, in the resurrection, to a state of endless bliss is, of course, a mistake. Experience has taught us that man cannot enjoy the things for which he is not prepared. The savage cannot appreciate the values of the spectroscope; neither can the sinful man feel at ease in the presence of God. The Lord has pointed out that, "He who is not able to abide the law of a celestial kingdom cannot abide a celestial glory. And he who cannot abide the law of a terrestrial kingdom cannot abide a terrestial glory; And he who cannot abide the law of a telestial kingdom cannot abide a telestial glory; therefore he is not meet fora kingdom of glory. Therefore he must abide a kingdom which is not a kingdom of glory." (D. And C. 88:22-24.) Man's position tfter the resurrection will, therefore, he determined by his ability to comply with the laws of God. 8. Man Cannot be Saved in Ignorance. Man will be truly saved and exalted in the kingdom of God when he is placed beyond the influence of all agencies that deter his progress; in other words, when he is thoroughly redeemed from the power of sin. And sin, it should be noted, "is the transgression of the law." (I John 3:4.) When, therefore, man is able to obey (and control) all law, and "thus place all enemies under his feet, he will be verily and actually saved.  9, Already man has made progress toward this end. Through his intelligence he is now able to control many of the laws of nature. To illustrate: He flies from place to place, even from continent to continent, and sometimes around the earth, at will; he speaks to the ends of the earth; he lengthens the span of human life; and he explores to distances heretofore unknown. This he does by familiarizing himself with the laws of nature and compelling them to obey his will, and, so far as it appears, his progress has scarcely more than begun. In this connection, it is easy to understand that "Man is saved no faster than he gets knowledge, for,' continues the Prophet, "if he does not get knowledge, he will be brought into captivity by some evil power in the other world, as evil spirits will have more knowledge, and consequently more power than many men who are on the earth." (History of the Church, Vol. 4, p. 588.) Again: "The man who has the most knowledge has the greatest power." (Jbid. Vol. 5, p. 392.) 10. (Just here it should be parenthetically noted that knowledge alone has no saving power, otherwise even Satan, the archenemy of truth, would be saved. To be effective, it must be coupled with wisdom and ability to act in harmony with the right. Thus, while it is undebateably true that man cannot be saved in ignorance and that he is saved no faster than he gains knowledge, yet it should be kept in mind that know]edge alone does not save.) 11. The fact that man cannot be saved in ignorance is easily understood upon a moment's thought. Consider, for example, the case of a resurrected being coming in contact with an evil spirit possessing more knowledge than he. The resurrected being would at once be at a disadvantage and possibly be led astray. Or consider the case of a resurrected being who was not familiar with the manner in which, say, the world was made. Plainly, he himself could not make one, thus limiting his power of creation. If man is to become master of heaven and earth, he cannot be ignorant of the processes involved therein, 12. Man's Future Possibilities. The risen Redeemer spoke unto his disciples in Galilee, saying: "'All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth." (Matthew 28:18.) The Latterday Saints are taught to believe that they too, through obedience to all the laws of God, may eventually reach this transcendent goal. It is the Utopia of human existence; it is the goal divine. Certain critics have said that such an ambition is a disparagement of the dignity and power of God. Such, however, is not the case, for man is an actual child of the Father and therefore possesses the undeveloped potentialities of Him who created him. Moreover, a Diety who can elevate man to the position of godhead demands greater respect than one who keeps man at a level lower than his own. 13. Concerning those who, in the hereafter, continue to obey his word the Lord says: "They shall pass by the angels, and the gods, which are set there, to their exaltation and glory in all things, as hath been sealed upon their heads, which glory shall be a fulness and a continuation of the seed forever and ever. Then shall they be gods, because they have no end; therefore shall they be from everlasting to everlasting, because they continue; then shall they be above all, because all things are subject unto them. Then shall they be gods, because thev have all power, and the angels are subject unto them. Verily, verily, I LESSON DEPARTMENT 57 say unto you, except ye abide my law ye cannot atiain to this glory." (D. And C. 132:19-21.) 14. It is only by means of a knowledge of things as they are, coupled with right living, that this goal can be attained. This is intelligence. Intelligence is the only means by which man can return to the presence of the Father and partake of his glory. Without it he cannot be saved. For this reason Latter-day Saints are unusually interested in the acquisition of truth and its utilization. No truth in the universe is too obscure or unimportant to command attention. All truth comes from God, whether it be from the rocky foundations of the earth or the voice of the prophet, for Deity is all-powerful and supreme, throughout the endless expanse of space. The voice of God has declared that "This is my work and my glory?to bring to pass 'the immortality and eternal life of man." The way has been prepared. It merely provides that man shall become acquainted with the laws of God and conduct his life in harmony therewith. Nothing could be simpler, more god-like or divine. Suggestions for Discussion and Review 1. In what respect is salvation a free gift from God? 2. Distinguish between intelligence and knowledge, wisdom, aptitude, comprehension, learning, familiarity. 3. Why, in your judgment, is man unable to enjoy things for which he is not prepared? 4. In what respect do those who have the most knowledge have the most power? 5. Why is intelligence the only means by which man can regain the presence of the Father? 6. Will knowledge alone save? Why not? Teachers' Topic ENDURING SATISFACTIONS OF LIFE "Man is that he might have joy." ?2 Nephi 2:25. What is joy? Joy is the fruits of righteous living. Shakespeare says: "The purest treasure mortal times afford is spotless reputation." How is that treasure won? It comes by living today and every day like a man of honor. "It is slowly built upon purity, integrity and courage." Enduring satisfactions do not come from wealth, power and fame. These may all vanish as dew before the sun. Wealth and social position count for nothing, unless united with purity of thought and life, honesty of purpose, and high ideals. Family love?the mutual love of husband and wife, of parents and children, of brothers and sisters, is not only the chief source of happiness, but the chief spring of action, and the safeguard from evil Theodore Roosevelt said: "Every rightly constituted woman or man must feel that there is no such ample reward to be found anywhere in life as the reward of children, the reward of a happy family life. We cannot get along at all as a nation if we have not the right kind of home life. Such a life is not only the supreme duty. But also the supreme reward of duty." The realization of the natural and legitimate enjoyments in family life depends on the possession of physical and moral health. Health is one  indispensable foundation for the enduring satisfactions of life. The reading and study of good books will bring happiness and joy in our lives. Charles W. Elliot says: "Ten minutes a day devoted affectionately to good books, such as the Bible or Shakespeare, will in thirty years make all the difference between a cultivated man and an uncultivated man; between a man mentally rich and a man mentally poor. Books are the quietest and most constant of friends; they are the most accessible and wisest of counsellors, and the most patient of teachers." The greatest happiness and satisfaction comes through service. Love of our fellowmen is a test of our love of God, and a willingness to be of real service to our fellowmen is a test of that love. Jesus said: "Inasmuch as ye do it unto the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me. Matthew 25:40. Literature (Third Week in March) LIFE AND LITERATURE THE OF THE BIBLE (2) "My word shall not pass away." ?Mark 13:31. The Bible walks the way of all the world with familiar feet and enters land after land to find its own everywhere. It has learned to speak in hundreds of languages to the heart of man. It comes to the palace to tell the monarch that he is the servant of the Most High, and into the cottage to assure the peasant that he is the son of God. Children listen to its stories with wonder and delight, and wise men ponder them as parables of life. It has a word of peace for the time of peril, a wora of comfort for the day of calamity, a word of light for the hour of darkness. Its oracles are repeated in the assembly of people, and its counsels whispered in the ear of the lonely. The wicked and the proud tremble at its warning, but to tic wounded and the penitent it has a mother's voice. The wilderness and the solitary place have been made glad by it, and the fire on the hearth has lit the reading of its well-worn page. It has woven itself into our deepest affections and colored our dearest dreams; so that love and, friendship, sympathy and devotion, memory and hope, put on the beautiful garments of its treasured speech, breathing of frankincense and myrrh. "Above the cradle and beside the grave its great words come to us uncalled. They fill our prayers with power larger than we know, and the beauty of them lingers on our ear long after the sermons which they adorn have been forgotten. They return to us swiftly and quietly, like doves flying from far away. They surprise us with new meanings, like springs of water breaking forth from the mountain beside a long-trodden path. They grow richer, as pearls do when they are worn near the heart." The Hebrew Classics The books of the Bible which have been styled as classics are the Books of Song and Devotion, and the Books of Wisdom. LESSON DEPARTMENT Be) The Devotional books of the Old Testament, The Book of Psalms, The Book of Lamentations, and The Song of Songs are poetic in form. The earliest Hebrew literature was poetic. Fragments of it are found embedded in the historical books of the Bible. "The Song of Lamech," Genesis 4:23-24, is one of the oldest fragments of Hebrew verse. It is interesting to note that-this historic remnant carries the chief characteristic of Hebrew poetry, recurrence of thought or parallelism, "Adah and Zillah, hear my voice, Ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech." The most magnificent survival of primitive Hebrew poetry is the "Song of Deborah."Israel's deliverance from the Canaanites came through the courage of this brave woman. The poem is a song of triumph, sung antiphonally by answering choruses of men and women, an exalted ballad form. The poem describes the desolation of Israel, the gathering of the tribes, the battle, and the retribution of Israel; it closes with a song of thanksgiving to Jehovah for his help. The later Hebrew poetry consists chiefly of songs of praise. The Psalms, three hundred and fifty, were formally ascribed to David. The Book of Psalms, as we now have it, is an anthology of songs of praise selected from the collections of various writers and arranged for temple worship. John Milton whose religious faith and poetic mastership made him the poet of Eternal Providence said of the Book: "Not in their divine argument alone, but in the art of composition the Psalms. May be easily made to appear over et kinds of lyric poetry incomparable." The great requisite for the appreciation of the Psalms is an understanding of their spiritual qualities. The deep and genuine love of nature as the Hebrews beheld in it the glory of God: "The heavens declare the glory of God; And the firmament showeth his handiwork." Psalm 19. The sense of the Eternity of God: "Before the mountains were brought forth, Or ever thou hadst formed the earth and the world, Even from everlasting to everlasting, thou are God.  For a thousand years in thy sight Are but as yesterday when it is past, And as a watch in the night. We bring our years to an end as a tale that is told." The intense joy of knowing God and being permitted to serve him: "As the hart panteth after the waterbrooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God!" ok Ok "Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer." Not all the psalms are alike in their lyric qualities, some are simple expressions: "The Shepherd's Song" expressing joy at the goodness of God, Psalm 23. Others are in reality exalted harmonies; "The Eternal Word" expressing joy at God's demand for righteousness, Psalm 49. There are many natural songs among the Psalms; "The Song of Thunder," Psalm 28, "A Love Song," Psalm 45. Some of the  Psalms: 27, 42, 51, 63, 91, 103, 107, 139, are among the noblest lyrics of all literature making the book of Psalms the immortal song-book of the ages. The dominant note of the Psalms is one of rejoicing. The problems of life are faced, but trust lifts the soul into singing joy: "Bless the Lord, O my soul, And all that is within me Bless His holy name." A small group of songs announcing the Messianic ideal is found in the book of Isaiah; "The Prince of Peace," Isaiah 9:2-7, "The Ideal Ruler," Isaiah 11:1-10, "An Ideal of Justice," Isaiah 2:2-4, "A Song of Hope," Isaiah 40:1-11, "And Exalted People." Isaiah 52:13-53. No list of Bible poetry would be complete without recording the chief songs of the New Testament: "The Magnificat," Luke 1:46-55, "Benedictus," Luke 1:68-79, "Gloria In Excelsis," Luke 2:29-31, "T he Hymn of Love," I Corinthians 13. The Song of Songs is an Oriental poem of rare beauty. The setting of the poem is dramatic: The author, a late writer influenced by Greek and Oriental thought, is singing the praises of the loyalty of love. The book has been one of the most difficult to understand. Many sources and many interpretations have been given to the song as a result. There is no justification of attributing the authorship to Solomon because his name occurs frequently, because the evidence of thought and style place the authorship about the third century B. C. There is, however, justification of a symbolical interpretation of the poem, an allegory exalting divine love over earthly love. The songs are exquisite pictures imaging, brooks, hills, vineyards, and meadows, full of the color and music of nature. "For, lo, the winter is past, the rain is over and gone; "The flowers appear on the earth; the time of singing of birds is come. "The fig tree putteth forth her green figs, And the vines with the tender grape give a good smell. Arise, my love, and come away. "My beloved is mine and I am his. "Until the day break, and the shadows flee away, turn my beloved, and be thou like a roe or a young hart upon the mountains of Bether." The story of the cycle of songs is very simple. Solomon saw and wooed a beautiful maiden. In his palace he sought to dazzle her with his splendor and power. The maiden, already in love with a simple shepherd of the hills, remained true to her humble lover and, finally repulsing the king, went back to her shepherd. The meaning of the poem is beautifully expressed in the lines at the close: "Set a seal upon thine heart, as a seal upon thine arm: for love is strong as death." "Many waters cannot quench love, neither can the floods drown it: if a man would give all the substance of his house for love, it would utterly be condemned." The power of Hebrew thought is the power of Hebrew poetry? "The word becomes flesh and dwells among us and we behold its glory." The Books of Wisdom The Book of Proverbs, the Book of Job, and the Book of Eccleciastes are the so called "wisdom books" of the Bible. The sage, or scholar, had his place in guiding the life of the Hebrews. The task of the scholar LESSON DEPARTMENT 61 was to seek wisdom. Wisdom for the Hebrew was to understand God and his ways. Wisdom was God's best gift to man, the reward of obedience. The Book of Proverbs has been explained as a library of maxims containing the wisdom of the centuries. This anthology of Hebrew wisdom dates from the period of Jewish contact with Greek thought. A collection of aphorisms a brief expressive statement of a truth,) the book is a handbook to successful living. The profoundest insight and the highest moral value characterize its expression making many of its statements jewels of truth "To be righteous is wisdom; to be wicked is folly" may be said to be the theme running through the book. The Book of Ecclesiastes is a series of personal essays or monologues by an individual in search of the secret of life as was Goethe's Faust. The authorship of the book was originally ascribed to Solomon, but literary scholars are agreed that it was written about 200 B. C. The problem of what makes life worthwhile is the problem of the book. The book shows very definitely the influence of Greek thought upon the Hebrews. The author, who styles himself, Koheleth, makes a daring attempt to investigate the current opinions concerning the actual value of life. We see the meeting of two systems of thought. Koheleth, a man of learning, has lost the hope that has characterized his race in the past, and he has not yet learned of the new hope for man, individual immortality. He is disillusioned. His is a noble sadness, yet he never gives up his faith in God. Two voices are heard throughout the book, one of joy and one of despair. Wisdom, pleasure, wealth, and power are all experienced, but the writer finds no abiding satisfaction?"Vanity of vanity, all is vanity." Koheleth does however, find the secret of successful living? "Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might." Twenty centuries later Carlyle preached the same doctrine, "Blessed is the man who has found his work." "The Book of Ecclesiastes," closes with an exquisite poem containing the lines: "Remember also thy Creator in the days of thy youth." "And the dust returneth to the earth, As it was: And the spirit returneth unto God 'Who gave it." The Book of Job has been called the "greatest poem in the world's literature, towering up alone, far away above all the poetry of the world." The author of his great poem is unknown, the author has remained completely anonymous. The book is a masterpiece of art. The problem of the book is the oldest and most insoluble problem that men have ever tried to solve?the problem of human suffering. The treatment of the problem is remarkable. Instead of discussing it as a modern philosopher would do, the author uses the dramatic method, a drama without any action confined to speech. The book bears no specific reference to Hebrew life an d thought hence its universality of spirit. The form of the "Book of Job" is a poetic drama. The prologue presents the hero, Job, a partriarchal figure, rich in flocks and herds, rich in family, and rich in integrity. Satan, the adversary, seeing Job the "perfect and the upright man" suggests a test for him. Catastrophes fall on Job yet he praises God. When the celestial council meets again, God exults in the integrity  of Job. Satan suggests a more severe test. Job is smitten with the most dreaded of diseases, leprosy. Being now an outcast, Job went and sat outside the city a prey to his misery. The friends of Job, Eliphaz, Bildad, and Zophar come to him in his extremity. For seven days and nights they sit in silence and mourn for him. Job breaks out in malediction at his suffering. The friends in turn offer their wisdom to Job. Eliphaz dwells upon the goodness of God, Bildad upon the justice of God, Zaphor upon the wisdom of God. Voicing the beliefs of the day, their conclusion i is that Job's suffering is but the punishment for his sins, "they that plow iniquity, and sow trouble, reap the same.' Job rejects the opinions of ine friends crying out, "I have understanding as well as you?will ye speak unrighteously for God? The friends answer with another cycle of arguments: Eliphaz affirming that the punishment for sin comes from the sinner's own conscience; Bildad condems mankind in general; Zophar claims that retribution must efface the sin. Job answers each argument in turn. Now we see a new hope awaking in Job. The self-evident prosperity of the wicked breaks down the argument. Job rises to a stronger faith in God as he declares "IT know that my redeemer (Vindicator) liveth, and that He shall stand at last upon the earth, and after my skin hath been thus destroyed, yet in my flesh shall I see God!" A third cycle of speeches ensues. Eliphaz draws up a series of accusations against Job and urges repentance, Bildad explains the ways of Nature; Zophar acclaims the value of wisdom. Job is left alone, a tragic figure, robbed of his wealth, bereaved of his children, deserted by his wife, repudiated by his friends, stricken by a loathesome disease, and as it seems to him cast off by God. In the manner of his religion by the solemn 'oath of clearing," the Hebrew "'ideal of righteousness, a form of confession, Job lays bare his case to God. A young man, Elihu, hearing Job's oath of clearing, is moved to speak to Job. Elihu presents to Job and his friends the theory that suffering is one of God's voices by which He teaches man. Thunder clouds darken the sky, supernatural brightness parts the darkness and the voice of God is heard: "Where was thou when I laid the foundations of the earth??Declare if thou has understanding?Who determinzd the measures thereof, if thou knowest? Who laid the cornerstone thereof, when the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy." Job answers "I have uttered that which I understood not. I had heard of thee by the hearing of the ear, but now mine eyes seeth thee." "A noble book; all men's book, a noble universality." It speaks to man of God's way. Job's progress from doubt to certitude is a pattern for all men. As sublime sorrow at not knowing God yields to sublime reconciliation at finding God, the mighty note of Hebrew faith "Know God" is given to man for "His is the kingdom, the power and the glory forever. Amen." Suggestions for Study A. Materials: 1. The Story of the World's Literature. Chapter 4? Macy. 2. The Modern Reader's Bible. ?Moulton. 3. The English Bible As Literature.?Dinsmore. LESSON DEPARTMENT 63 4. Creative Religious Literature. ?Culler. B. Program: 1. Music. 2. Discussion. A. The Nature and Content of the Hebrew Classics. 3. Review with Selections. A. The Psalms. B. The Book of Proverbs. C. The Book of Ecclesiastes. D. The Songs of Solomon. C. Method: Let the beauty of expression and the majesty of thought bear their own message. Appreciation is the purpose of the three lessons of the series on the Bible. Social Service (Fourth Week in March) SOCIALIZED CONDUCT In "Personality" page 7, is found this sentence: "Many children create behavior disturbances over which they themselves have little volitional control but which are chalked up against them as wilful misbehavior." Not only is there a problem of wilfulness involved in this statement but there is also the implied definition of "misbehavior." Postively this calls for a definition of "good" or "desired" behavior. Every such definition is stated in terms of the relations of people with each other? good behavior usually means behavior which is acceptable in a group ?socialized behavior. Thom defines it as follows: "The well-adjusted personality, which characterizes a happy and efficient man or woman is a harmonious blending of these varied emotions and character traits, resulting in self-control and habits of conformity. This type of individual habitually takes into consideration those with whom he comes in contact, either in the home, in the community, or in business. His attitude is such toward his friends, neighbors, and co-workers that he is an asset to society. His relationships are happy and productive of good." (Thom, Everyday Problems of the Every Day Child, p. 135). This lesson has as its first aim the building up of a real feeling for the breadth of meaning implied in "social" or "good" conduct. The second aim is to call attention to several of the detailed items in the practical problem of socializing children. The issue of the lesson is raised vitally by the following incident: A Utah mother went to the juvenile court to intercede for her boy. He had been guilty of stealing various articles, last of all, an automobile, and of sexual irregularities. She said to the court: "He isa good boy. He doesn't smoke and he helps willingly at home." Suggestions for Procedures 1. Take time to point out the faulty interpretation implied in the above incident and to show that part of this mother's troubles may be found in her early guidance along such a narrow line. 2. Assign the reading guide, calling attention to the preparation of specific lists of material for use in the class,  3. Discuss the reading guide carefully. 4. Assign for brief two-minute reports the following topics from Report of White House Conference: Limitations of the modern family in socializing the child. Pp. 139-140. Keeping the social relations of the family up-to-date. Pp. 147-148. Social values in school classification, pp. 170. Groups that influence youth, pp. 248ff. The old and the new, pp. 342ff. (This report may be allowed a few minutes more time.) 5. The class leader should call attention in a definite clear way to as many of the specified items in the supplementary material as time will permit. Encourage the class members to study the material as indicative of the many factors there are in the process of socialization. Reading guide for class members: Personality, pp. 7-10. In controlling behavior it is necessary to diagnose the causes. Note the four causes discussed on page 7. Look up a definition of the specific diseases mentioned. Note carefully the opposite treatments proposed for misbehavior caused by "emotional instability" and "Wilfullness." If statistics show greater delinquency among children somewhat dull is the explanation because they are dull or because of the social treatment they receive? The author speaks of "aggressive misbehavior." Make a list of specific acts that you would put in this class of conduct. Make a list of things that children do that would be called "misbehavior" but which is not "aggressive." Use this list to interpret the statement on page 9 regarding the differences between boys and girls. The author points out the fact that prevention of unsocial conduct depends on early diagnosis. Just what responsibility is put on teachers and parents in connection with this? Study your own work at home in a to answer question 7 on page Do you know personally of cases similiar to those described in problems 1 and 3? Questions 5 and 8 are really answered better in lessons 14 and 11 respectively. Supplementary Material: 1. Socialization is a process: of acquiring a series of specific desirable reactions, not gaining possession of a trait such as honesty, self-control, etc. On this point Dr. Mark A. May said before the Chicago Association for Child Study and Parent Education in 1928: "The correlations between lying, stealing, and cheating all run so low that it would be quite impossible to predict one from the other." "Even among different forms of cheating the correlation are so low that it is quite impossible to predict with any reasonable degree of accuracy whether a pupil will cheat in doing a puzzle by knowing whether he cheated in arithmetic." "The results show that there is no such a thing as a unified trait of honesty." Of the effect of knowing what is right the article reporting the above address continues: "The upshot of all is that knowledge, as taught in the conventional way, does not determine conduct. This does not mean that knowledge taught differently, or different kinds of knowledge may not. In groups there seems to be a positive correlaLESSON DEPARTMENT 65 tion between the group average in moral knowledge and group conduct." 2. Selfishness. William Henry Pyle in his book "Training Children," says: "Probably the most prominent aspect of our original nature is its selfishness. It is selfishness that causes most of the misery and unhappiness in the world. And this is why the teachings of Jesus prove to be the most important ethical doctrine that has ever been proclaimed to man. It is selfishness that brings the most sin and crime and pain and sorrow. It is kindness and thoughtfulness that bring the most joy." (p. 14). Specific forms of unsocial acts are associated with selfishness: a. Lying grows out of environmental conditions, and is largely imitative. B. Control of stealing is dependent upon three social factors in the home and other social institutions: Theft must not serve the end for which it was inteded. Restitution must be by the effort of the child. The child's property rights are to be respected. C. Jealousy is a normal reaction in children between the ages 1 to 5. "It is often aroused in a child by constantly praising and holding up a brother or sister as a model, or persistently pointing out shortcomings and defects in the child who is inclined to be jealous. Nothing is more disastrous than playing the merits and abilities of one child against another. It causes feelings of bitterness, resentment, inferiority, and inadequacy." Thom p. 177. The treatment is to be based on instruction in unselfishness, evidence of fairness in family organization, and opportunities to share with and do for others. D. Of anger Thom says: "There are centain anti-asocial tendencies that manifest themselves from time to time in the process of a child's normality. A spineless sort of lad it would be who never got angry; How dull and apathetic would be the child who never demonstrated he had a will of his own by being disobedient; how peculiar the child whose curiosity did not at some time or other lead to destructiveness! How colorless would be the mental content of the youthful mind that did not elaborate upon its imagination! One would find that the child without some element of sin in his personality makeup would be as unresponsive to his environment and as devoid of human interest as the jellyfish." 136, The danger from anger lies in chronic irritability and continued expressions which indicate satisfactions from them. If the child craves attention and gets a bribe he will continue to show anger. Parents and teachers should always seek the stimulating cause. It may be remote in play, or school, or may be deliberate display. 3. Obedience has to do with the relationships of children with adults. Socialization develops this into a respect for law, custom and official authority. The change is essentially one of a growing willingness and power to conform. Apparent disobedience may be a form of self assertion or a healthy natural reaction in the process of growing up. For the sake of safety and well-being children need to follow instructions literally in many things. These should be taught as specific habits. Any attempt to develop a general trait of obedience may stifle all curiosity, persistence, and aggressive  activity In no case are parents justified in forcing obedience in order to give them a sense of personal satisfaction of authority. The psychology of obedience 'is interesting. Thom's statement indicates the problem for parents. Obedience is not provided for in original nature. It comes as a result of social experience. "Not infrequently one finds adults with a tremendous resentment toward all authority, which represents a reaction to severe disciplinary methods of early life. "Wie must keep in mind that in administering punishment we are always meeting the problem by appealing to the child's fear of bodily harm, and as such it has little effect in helping him to direct his activities along social channels and helping him to think of life in relation with those with whom he has to live. The child will be happier and more efficient if he learns obedience, even though very slowly, by planning his life about the demands of the group, whether it be at home, on the playground or at school." Thom 128. 129. "The value of obedience is not found in the ability of the child to respond explicitly to the commands of those who are in authority, but rather in his ability to conform to standards that he has acquired of fair play and good sportsmanship towards his parents, playmates, and teachers." Thom 131. 4, Shyness. From-all classes of homes, more often from among the older members of the family come the tragic cases of unhappiness due to timidity, fear and shyness. While this is not always a disadvantage it carries with it enough potential unhappiness to warrant its careful consideration by parents and teachers. It should be kept in mind that most children who are markedly timid in the teens were shy at younger ages. Miss Jean E. Alger states the problems and summarizes some suggestions for prevention and treatment. (Jean E. Alger: Does Shyness Handicap your Child?Parents Magazine, June 1932, p. 26.) "We consider as shy the child who is ill at ease and perhaps awkward in the presence of others; the child who says little, blushes and looks away from the person to whom he is talking, the child who peeks into a room, sees strangers and immediately disappears; and the child who prefers to play or work alone. It might be said that the greatest danger in a child's being shy is the possibility that he may be misunderstood. Some have been thought to be lazy, careless, stubborn, or stupid. In reality they were shy. Timid and apprehensive children, when competing with a group of forty i in school may be thought retarded or lacking in ability. A boy may be called 'afraid' by others when he is really not afraid but does not know how to mix with the crowd. Perhaps the teacher may become discouraged with the child and feel that it is a reflection upon her ability to be unable to strike a keynote of interest. The shy boy or girl who wants to be a good fellow may be thought to be different, peculiar or unfriendly." Suggestions for treatments "To shy children of any age harsh or embarrassing methods are seldom successful, and this is especially true during the adolescent period. "It is perhaps best not to push the shy child forward in order to eradicate his shyness or to cover up your own sensitiveness when there are guests in your home. If he is timid about expressing himself, allow him to talk to a small, more familiar LESSON DEPARTMENT 67 group first. In the presence of strangers let him say his 'How do you do' and be gone; and if your younger child makes a more pleasing appearance than his older brother or sister try to remember that here are two distinct individuals. To compare them may make the shy one only more retiring. "Begin early to let him play with others outside of the home. If the child does not early learn to play with others, yours will be a diffi cult problem if you try to help him to get along well with groups when he has reached the age of nine or ten or later. "Tt is of primary importance to discover the shy child's interests and cultivate those interests so that in some situation?he is self confident and senses a mastery and security." 5. Ridicule and Socialization. "Laughing at a child's sober attempts to cope with life as he finds it is one of the surest ways of making him withdraw within himself and keep his plans and difficulties secret. He reacts to the implied contempt for him and his undertakings by protecting himself from future exposure to derision. If his clumsy attempts to use new hard words, meet with laughter, he is embarrassed, and becomes loathe to experiment with fascinating new words, before his elders. His vocabularly is then limited during just those years when he cares most for words. The feeling of self-consciousness when using unusual words may persist into maturity, even throughout life. "In like manner, the child who voices his deepest convictions, or painfully thought out conclusions, only to find himself discounted because he has fallen short of the accumulated wisdom of the ages, learned parrotwise by his scoffers, must retreat into the inmost recesses of his own consciousness to pursue his individual thinking in peace. The patronizing adult cannot come nigh, for the child is sensitive and prizes his dignity." (Grove?Wholesome Childhood, pp. 127-128.) 6. Courtesy and Social refinements of manner. Not "a child should be seen and not heard" but a child should be both seen and heard and taught how to behave as a regular part of his bringing-up. The harrowing scenes of childhood mis-entertaining guests or being warned what-not-todo when going on a visit represent parental consciousness but not parental action. Ina recent article is found the following bit of suggestion: (Martha Pratt Haislip: Is Your Child a Good Visitor, Child 'Welfare ?May 1932, p. 516ff.) "I thought of the many children, of ages ranging from nine to sixteen, who had visited in our family. Many of our visitors had been charming youngsters, well-bred, pleasant, and delightful additions to the household." The Child should learn a few practical lessons to practice while visiting. "Make himself at home?be ready to conform to the general routine of family life in the home where he is a visitor. "A good visitor eats what is set before him. If he does not, he makes no mention of the fact that he does not like certain foods. "He must be sufficient unto himself for a part of each day. He should read or rest?so that his youthful host or hostess may feel free to pursue his or her amusements without feeling burdened by the visitor's company. Every minute." Small duties assumed by him are appreciated., Tact and kindness should be shown  to older members of the family. Appreciation should be shown by unaffected enthusiasm. 7. The basis of the socialization is essentially imitation and guided participation. How people act the general social elements of the environment, and the chance to take part naturally are the elements that effect the results. The chief models are living ones, although literature and history may help. In early childhood the stages of development of courtesy are outlined as follows: (Pyle: Training Children.) Courtesy habits. As early as possible: Greetings. Introductions. Thank you. If you please. 4th year or before: Not to interrupt conversations without apology. Not to pass in front of another person. As early as possible: Rising when guest or older person enters room. Removing hats in room or church. Giving girls and ladies precedence. Apology?pardon me?accidental occurance. American flag?national anthem, Visiting manners. Obedience. "Little by little, month by month, the prompt, willing and cheerful helping of others can be developed. During the third year some progress can be made, more during the fourth and still more during the fifth. By the sixth birthday the habit of willing helpfulness should be fairly well fixed."