For Young Mothers By Holly B. Keddington 7 Eare all opening the door to W 1934. What will that door lead us into? In a recent radio sermon the subject of '"'Doors" was discussed in this manner: What kind of door are you? You may be the very pretentious door with untold possibilities—wealth, beauty, service and strength, a door made with filigre iron outer door so that an outsider is struck immediately with wonder at its pretentiousness. Then you may be the hand-carved door of oak, sturdy, beautiful, but a door like the other which lets no hint of its interior show through. There is next the door of the ordinary dwelling, with a wooden frame, firm and solid a pane of glass or two to let out a gleam of light to a passerby. Numerous types of doors, nearly as many as types of people, to choose from, until we come to the last door which shows signs of wear, many scrubbings, many foot falls on a worn doorsill, a knob that shakes a little from weak and strong hands upon it. But when this door is opened, we find warmth, good-will, simple comfort, happiness and a welcome that lasts. Each visitor leaves this door better for having entered it. So then, what kind of a door are you? You can find behind this portal of 1934 just what you will. Make the most of the possibilities offered. MOTHERS who listen to the radio at special times, I am sure, get much help from the suggestions given there. | Pamphlets that are given for the asking may be the beginning of a fine little library on child care and home-making. The State Boards of Health have many pamphlets that should be in every home. They, too, are yours for the asking. Many articles in magazines are splendid but we cannot subscribe to everything. How then, would it be for each Relief Society to have a library of such magazines donated by members so that instead of being burned or thrown away some other persons get from them the good suggestions. If a note book is used while you are reading', the magazines may be passed on but the jist of the article is at your finger tips.  HERE is a cookie recipe for that little girl who likes to make things. I believe she could do this all alone. Maybe those boys of yours and the neighbors might try it too: 44 c shortening 2 c sugar 2 eggs beaten 1 c raisins 1 tsp vanilla 1/2 tsp salt 1/2 tsp soda 1/2 c canned milk Flour to make soft dough Roll, cut with fancy cutters and bake 12 to 15 minutes in moderate oven (325°). WE all know how harrassed a mother may become by continually being indoors with a sameness of seeing, thinking and doing. We know also it is within her power to train herself to a calmness, an  evenness of disposition and a self-composure. These few little words, if studied, may help a lot: "All through this day, O Lord, let me touch as many lives as possible for Thee, and every life I touch do Thou quicken, whether through the words I speak, the letters I write, or the life I live. And with all let me be serene."