In the year 1834, a committee was formed, consisting of the Presidency of the Church, and some others, for the purpose of again preparing the revelations and having them published. This selection of revelations went on, and in 1835 was presented at a Conference of the Church held on the seventeenth day of August, and there was approved. When the Prophet made this selection, he made the statement that he prized these revelations beyond the wealth of this whole earth. I want to read to you just a word or two of the testimony of the Council of the Twelve in relation to these revelations, which were accepted on August 17, 1835:
"We, therefore feel willing to bear testimony to all the world of mankind, to every creature upon the face of all the earth, that the Lord has borne record to our souls, through the Holy Ghost shed forth upon us, that these commandments were given by inspiration of God, and are profitable for all men and are verily true.
"We give this testimony unto the world, the Lord being our helper; and it is through the grace of God the Father, and His Son, Jesus Christ, that we are permitted to have this privilege of bearing testimony unto the world, in the which we rejoice exceedingly, praying the Lord always that the children of men may be profited thereby."
Each man signed his name, beginning with Thomas B. Marsh, then President of the Council, and ending with Lyman E. Johnson, the youngest member.
At this Conference it was decided to include in this publication of the Doctrine and Covenants seven Lectures on Faith. These lectures have been given before the Schools of the Elders in Kirtland during the years 1834-1835. In accepting these seven Lectures on Faith, it was made very clear to that Conference that they were not received on a parallel with the revelations, but were accepted as helps in the study of the doctrines of the Church, and so they were added to the Doctrine and Covenants with that understanding.
At this Conference two other articles were also received, read, approved, and ordered to be printed in the Doctrine and Covenants, one on Marriage and the other on Laws and Government. These two articles appeared in each edition of the Doctrine and Covenants from the first edition in 1835, until 1876. We should remember that these lectures on Faith were not revelations, and were not considered so in the beginning. These two articles, one on Marriage, and the other on Laws and Government, were not revelations. I want to impress this upon you, because this question comes up constantly, especially by members of the Reorganized Church, who accuse us of taking a revelation out of the Doctrine and Covenants. This article on marriage was not a revelation and I want you never to forget it.
I hold in my hand a copy of the Doctrine and Covenants published in 1869, one of the last before that article was taken out. Do not forget what I am going to tell you, that at this Conference held on August 17, 1835, Joseph Smith and Frederick G. Williams, one of the Counselors in the Presidency, were not present, they were in Michigan. That is a matter of recorded history, we know where they were because we have it in the documentary history of the Church. So this article on marriage, and this article on Laws and Government in General, were written by Oliver Cowdery in the absence of the Prophet Joseph Smith, and the Prophet knew nothing of the action that was taken ordering them printed with the revelations. These were not revelations, and never were so considered, and were ordered printed in the absence of Joseph Smith, and when Joseph Smith returned from Michigan, and learned what was done, I am informed by my father, who got this information from Orson Pratt, the Prophet was very much troubled.
Orson Pratt and Joseph F. Smith, my father, were missionary companions, they traveled together, and my father learned a great many things from Orson Pratt of these early days. When the Prophet came back from Michigan he learned of the order made by the Conference of the Church, and let it go through. Now the Prophet did know something about these Lectures on Faith, because he helped to prepare them, and he helped also to revise these lectures before they were published, but these two other articles, he had nothing to do with them.
In the days of Nauvoo, the Lord gave Joseph Smith a revelation on Marriage, that revelation appears under date of July 12, 1843. That is not the date that the revelation was given, but the date when the revelation was recorded. That revelation on Marriage was not placed in the Doctrine and Covenants until 1876.
In the year 1876, the first edition of the Doctrine and Covenants published in the west was published by David O. Calder of the Deseret News. Orson Pratt, under the direction of the Presidency of the Church, had added to the body of revelations, a great many others as we have them now in the Doctrine and Covenants, that were not in these earlier editions, and this section known now as Section 132, was among those so added. It would not have been consistent to have allowed that article on Marriage to stay in when it contradicted the revelation given to the Prophet Joseph Smith, so they took it out, and very properly. That is a matter of history that we ought to be familiar with.
I want to read from this article on Marriage to show you that it is not a revelation and could not be:
"According to the custom of all civilized nations marriage is regulated by laws and ceremonies: therefore, we believe that all marriages in this church of Christ of Latter-day Saints should be solemnized in a public meeting, or feast, prepared for that purpose;"
I do not believe that at all. We solemnize marriages in the Temple of the Lord, at an altar. We do not have a crowd, and it is not a feast.
"And that solemnization should be performed by a presiding high priest, high priest, bishop, elder, or priest, not even prohibiting those persons who are desirous to get married, of being married by other authority."
I do not believe that. I believe every marriage in this Church should be performed by a High Priest who is appointed by the one who holds the keys to perform that ceremony for time and eternity, at the altar in the House of the Lord, and it ought not to be performed anywhere else. Of course they had no temples and no understanding of the ceremonies for time and eternity in the year 1835, so we will have to excuse Oliver Cowdery for that. However this article is not the doctrine of the Church, and cannot be, you can see that.
"We believe that it is not right to prohibit members of this church from marrying out of the church, if it be their determination so to do, but such persons will be considered weak in the faith of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ."
Of course we do not believe that we should prohibit people from marrying outside of the Church, we cannot go to that extent, and prohibit them from doing it, but we should counsel against it, and teach against it, and try to persuade them not to do that sort of thing.
"Inasmuch as this church of Christ has been reproached with the crime of fornication, and polygamy; we declare that we believe that one man should have one wife; and one woman but one husband, except in case of death, when either is at liberty to marry again."
Of course there was no doctrine of Plural Marriage in the Church in 1835, but Orson Pratt said (I get this from my father who was his missionary companion) that the Lord did reveal to Joseph Smith, before 1835, and before 1834, and as early as 1832, the doctrine of plural marriage. The Prophet revealed that to some few of the brethren, and Orson Pratt was one of them. He said the Prophet told him that, but it was revealed as a law or principle that was not at that time to be revealed to the Church, or made public, or practiced, but something that would yet come, that was future. I have the confidence that Orson Pratt spoke the truth. So it would be inconsistent, I say, to keep that article in here, when the revelation known as Section 132 came to the Prophet Joseph Smith and was added to the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants.
IT is not necessary for me now to go into further detail in regard to the history of these revelations more than to say this, that in 1876 Orson Pratt divided the Doctrine and Covenants into verses as we have it now. Before that it was not divided, and then it was sent to England to be published—both the Doctrine and Covenants and the Book of Mormon, as we now have them divided into verses and the Book of Mormon into chapters, also with the foot notes. This was in 1879 when the first editions of the Doctrine and Covenants and Book of Mormon, with footnotes, were published in Liverpool, England. All of the printing of the Church works, after we were driven from Nauvoo, until 1876, was done in Great Britain.
The Doctrine and Covenants, that is the title of this book, and how much more significant it is than "The Book of Commandments." A Book of Commandments means, if we accept the title at its face value, that it contains only commandments. But this title which the Lord gave when they got out this edition—let me refer to the title page; "The Doctrine and Covenants of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," is very significant, and tells the story of what this book actually is. It contains the doctrine of the Church; it contains the covenants the Lord will make with the Church, if we are willing to receive them.
In my judgment there is no book on earth yet come to man as important as the book known as the Doctrine and Covenants, with all due respect to the Book of Mormon and the Bible, and the Pearl of Great Price, which we say are our standards in doctrine. The book of Doctrine and Covenants to us stands in a peculiar position above them all.
I am going to tell you why. When I say that do not for a moment think I do not value the Book of Mormon, the Bible and the Pearl of Great Price, just as much as any man that lives—I think I do. I do not know of anybody who has read them more, and I appreciate them, they are wonderful, they contain doctrine and revelation and commandments that we should heed; but the Bible is a history containing the doctrine and commandments given to the people anciently. That applies also to the Book of Mormon. It is the doctrine and the history and the commandments of the people who dwelt upon this continent anciently. But this Doctrine and Covenants contains the word of God to those who dwell here now. It is our book. It belongs to the Latter-day Saints. More precious than gold, the Prophet says we should treasure it more than the riches of the whole earth. I wonder if we do? If we value it, understand it and know what it contains, we will value it more than wealth, it is worth more to us than the riches of the earth.
I heard a brother say he could not read the Doctrine and Covenants because it was so much like a dictionary. We have heard practically that expressed here this afternoon. It is not a consecutive story—it changes the subject, and so on—well of course it does.
ABOUT thirty years ago, when I was a president in a Quorum of Seventies—and in those days we did not have any supervision so far as our study was concerned—it was decided by that Quorum of Seventies that they would study the Doctrine and Covenants, and I was appointed to be the class teacher. We took it up section by section. You are not going to get all there is out of it in any other way. You may take it up if you want to by topics, or doctrines, that is good, but you are not going to understand the Doctrine and Covenants, you are not going to get out of it all there is in it unless you take it up section by section, and then when you do that you will have to study it with its setting as you get it in the history of the Church. When we studied the Doctrine and Covenants in those days, we did not take the Doctrine and Covenants for our text book, but we took the Documentary History of the Church. The first volume had just been published, and it contained the greater part of the revelations in the Doctrine and Covenants, with their setting, so that we got the reasons why this revelation was given, and that revelation was given, and with this background, so there was greater interest in the things we were studying than there would have been if we had taken the revelations in some other way. And so we studied it for a number of years. I do not remember now how long, but we were still studying it when I was called out of that Council to the Council of the Twelve.
May I say that the family I belong to, for five or six years, I do not remember just how long, has been holding meetings practically monthly, and we have been studying the Doctrine and Covenants, taking it up revelation by revelation, we have got over to about Section 88. I have been trying for years to get the Priesthood of the Church to study the Doctrine and Covenants. I partially have succeeded, but they are not doing it (with all due respect to you brethren of the Priesthood) as they ought to. Every man who holds the Priesthood in this Church ought to be familiar with it and know its contents.
I WANT to call attention to something here. In this Preface to the Doctrine and Covenants, which was given November 1, 1831, the Lord has something to say that I think is very significant, because he tells us why this book is published. "Hearken, O ye people of my church, saith the voice of him who dwells on high, and whose eyes are upon all men; yea, verily I say: Hearken ye people from afar; and ye that are upon the islands of the sea, listen together." There is the trumpet call to the Latter-day Saints, and to the people on the islands of the sea, and in every land, to give ear, for the Lord has something of importance to say. And then he goes on to tell how every heart will be penetrated, every ear shall hear and every eye shall see, and the rebellious shall be pierced with much sorrow, for their iniquities shall be spoken from the housetops and their secret acts shall be revealed.
I want to show you here from this very revelation why these revelations are given, so I am going to read from verse 17:
"Wherefore, I the Lord, knowing the calamity which should come upon the inhabitants of the earth, called upon my servant Joseph Smith, Jun., and spake unto him from heaven, and gave him commandments.
"And also gave commandments to others, that they should proclaim these things unto the world; and all this that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophets—
"The weak things of the world shall come forth and break down the mighty and strong ones, that man should not counsel his fellow man, neither trust in the arm of flesh—
"But that every man might speak in the name of God the Lord, even the Savior of the world;
"That faith also might increase in the earth;
"That mine everlasting covenant might be established;
"That the fulness of my gospel might be proclaimed by the weak and the simple unto the ends of the world, and before kings and rulers.
"Behold, I am God and have spoken it; these commandments are of me, and were given unto my servants in their weakness, after the manner of their language, that they might come to understanding.
"And inasmuch as they erred it might be made known;
"And inasmuch as they sought wisdom they might be instructed;
"And inasmuch as they sinned they might be chastened, that they might repent;
"And inasmuch as they were humble they might be made strong, and blessed from on high, and receive knowledge from time to time."
That gives you an idea of why we have the Doctrine and Covenants, and this is given not only to the Church, but to those on the islands of the sea, in foreign lands, and to everybody. These are the reasons: that faith might be increased; that the everlasting covenant might be established, that the gospel might be preached, that men might be brought to repentance, and understand the things of God.
Two days after that revelation was given, at the close of the Conference, the Lord gave another revelation, and since it was given after the close of the Conference, it was called the appendix, now section 133. In this the Lord says:
"And by the weak things of the earth the Lord shall thrash the nations by the power of his Spirit.
"And for this cause these commandments were given; they were commanded to be kept from the world in the day that they were given, but now are to go forth unto all flesh—
"And this according to the mind and will of the Lord, who ruleth over all flesh."
Just another word in regard to the value of these revelations. In another revelation the Lord said this:
"And again, I will give unto you a pattern in all things, that ye may not be deceived; for Satan is abroad in the land, and he goeth forth deceiving the nations—
"Wherefore he that prayeth, whose spirit is contrite, the same is accepted of me if he obey mine ordinances.
"He that speaketh, whose spirit is contrite, whose language is meek and edifieth, the same is of God if he obey mine ordinances."
THE Lord says he will give us a pattern to follow that will protect us from false spirits and doctrine, and we need it today as we have never needed it before in the history of this Church. Pointing out the value of these revelations, and what they mean to us, in this first revelation again I call attention to this one thing. Here is the word of the Lord in a commandment to every member of this Church:
"Search these commandments, for they are true and faithful, and the prophecies and promises which are in them shall all be fulfilled.
"Search these commandments," that is the thread that runs through this preface to this Book of Commandments. I tell you there is nothing you ever attempted to study equal to this, and you will never find anything quite equal to it. You have only scratched at it, that is all you have done. Of course it is not my place to dictate to you and tell you what to do, but it is my place to warn the people and tell them that the Lord has commanded them to search these things.
I am reading this book all the time, scarcely a day passes that I do not read something and ponder over it and the other standards in doctrine. The Lord has given this book to us; it is our book, it contains the doctrines of the Church and the commandments and the covenants. Many of the covenants could not be written and put in a book, you get these in the Temple of the Lord, but I am reading these things because I want to know what the Lord has to say, and what He would have me do. It is a wonderful study, and there is not anything in all this world more pleasing, more delightful or that brings greater joy, not anything.
May the Lord bless you and guide you in this labor, I pray in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.
CARE OF THE FEET By Dr. B. H. Blackham
WE, as Latter-day Saints believe in keeping our bodies as perfect as possible, so that they may be temples for the Spirit of God, as well as for our own spirits, and it is only natural that through perhaps misunderstanding, or not really knowing what we are doing, that we cripple this body of ours. The bodies of our children, will be my biggest plea today.
Ninety per cent of the children come into this world with perfect bodies. At the age of 21 it is found that sixty-five per cent of them have defective feet, and it is only through educating the people to this that we can prevent this great wrong to the generations that are coming.
At the age of one to three, the child is learning to walk. The over-eager parent begins pushing the child, and trying to teach it to walk. This is a very bad practice inasmuch as we must consider the bone formation has only started. At birth the child has only one-third of each individual bone formed, and the rest is a soft substance which is very pliable, and it is easy to shape these small bodies into the forms that we wish. If we want to deform them, it is very easy to do it. So we must watch through childhood days to see that there is no undue strain upon these small bodies. At the age of ten to twelve the biggest danger is past, the bones are rather hard, not fully completed, but enough to eliminate deforming very easily. If the child is left alone and given the proper opportunity it will gradually develop its bone and muscle and body structure to the degree where it can stand alone and walk. Some children walk sooner than others—let them gradually develop their bones and muscles to the degree that they can carry their weight, and do not try to push them.
The thing I wish to emphasize is the proper fitting of shoes and stockings. So many people say, "Stockings?—I have heard about shoes, but what do stockings have to do with it?" I have found that there are more bad feet, crippled and deformed bodies, caused through bad fitting stockings than through short shoes. The proper fit of the stocking should be half an inch longer than the foot when the person is sitting, then when the person stands it allows for the elongation of the foot. The shoes should be one quarter to half an inch longer. For children half an inch, because their feet grow so fast, that if you do not get them long enough they will soon grow out of them. The type of shoe with a thick sole is best, so that when the child stands, it stands naturally with the feet flat on the ground.
If a child seems to have flat feet at the age of from one to five years, do not be alarmed, because as a general rule 50% of the children have this appearance, but if this does develop at the age of six or seven, then it is time for the condition to be remedied.
When buying shoes parents often choose a shoe one quarter to half an inch longer than the foot, and have the child wear this shoe for best for six weeks to two months, until it appears to be short, then they will allow the child to wear these for every day in school. If you must have your children wear short shoes, be sure that these shoes are worn the days when they are not on their feet, e.g. Sundays, and make the little ones stay in the house and sit down. The longer shoes should be worn every day, for when a child is on its feet, playing, it needs to have plenty of length.
I made a survey of a school recently, and found that 75% of the school children were wearing short shoes and stockings. You perhaps have been permitting this without even thinking, and wonder why the shoe wears out at the end, and the child stumbles and heel for formal wear. Turns its ankle. These are signs of weak feet, and of shortness in foot wear. If you will examine your children's feet this evening, and note that the toes are extending upward, and the knuckles bunched up, you will have a sure sign that you have fitted this child in short shoes and stockings. In the adolescent child, foot troubles increase in the female and decrease in the male, and that is due to a desire of the girl to be in style. The girl at 12, 13 or 14 imagines that she has reached womanhood, and desires to wear high heels. At first the parent says, "No" but just like the dripping of water on a stone gradually wears the stone away, so it is with the resistence of the parent. It is worn away until the child is permitted to wear high heels, which are only for evening wear or formal occasions. One is just as much out of place on the streets, or at home in the morning, with high heels on as if she wore a low The permanent wearing of a high heeled ~ shoe will cause deformities of the body such as curvature of the spine, round shoulders, and derangement of the organs of the body. Even though women have difficulty in making a change to the lower heel, if they have been wearing the higher one, it will benefit them. Wear the three different types, according to your wishes, during the day. You will note that the muscles are kept constantly changing, and the muscle that has to change continually is a strong muscle. The proper fitting of shoes is to have the wide part of the foot behind the wide part of the shoe, so that when you stand your foot  elongates into the wider part of the shoe. This will prevent corns, callouses, bunions, swollen ankles, fallen arches, and a lot of body derangement. Women today are not getting enough exercise through walking. It should be a resolution in the new year to take a fifteen or twenty minute snappy walk every day. You will find that you will be able to do your work better in the house, even though you lose that much time. Teach the children to take care of their feet, and fit them properly, so they may be raised in comfort, and they will enjoy life while here. Bad feet is, of course, a cause for worry, even eye strain is caused by bad feet, head aches, back aches, curvature of the spine and things of that nature are all caused by this fitting of our feet improperly. "ANGELS AND AMAZONS" By Julia A. F. Lund THE Third point in the Three Point Program of the National Council of Women in 1933, was the writing of a book which should tell the development of women in the past Century. It is my pleasure to briefly review that work. When plans for the program of the National Council's contribution to the Century of Progress were completed, it was presented to the Member Organizations, which were in turn asked to cooperate. You already know what a fine piece of work you all helped to accomplish in the "Signature Campaign." Your General Officers exerted their best efforts to supply pictures and historical data, for the books on display and for the one to be written. After careful consideration, Mrs. Inez Haynes Irwin was chosen as the author, whose task it was, to fittingly portray the story of a hundred years of American Women, the social movement of the past century, which has stood above all others. Mrs. Irwin is herself quite typical of the versatile and brilliant woman of today. Born in Rio De Janeiro, South America, of American parentage, she received her education in the best schools of the United States. She has been a writer since her youth, contributing to magazines and newspapers, in addition to many books that claim her as author. In 1924 she took the O. Henry prize for the best Short Story of the year. She has traveled practically all over the world and has been actively identified with the interests of women, a close associate of Maude Wood Park and other great American women. She was, therefore, very well qualified as Miss Phillips says "to make the pioneer women of the past century live again as they pass in review in the pages of this book, and whose desire to be accurate and impartial has impelled her, together with her distinguished husband, Will Irwin, to trace countless sources of information for the wealth of material which has resulted in this vivid presentation." The Title—Angels and Amazons is most appropriate and arresting, suggesting as it does, the extreme types, which were mingled in these heroines of a cause. The sweetness and patience of Angels combined with the determination and courage of the fabulous nation of martial women, who, according to tradition, lived in Asia Minor and fought  against the Greeks at the Siege of Troy. The battles with the Amazons were favorite subjects with ancient Greek poets, sculptors and painters. Our glorious American women were gentle as Angels and strong as Amazons in this battle of a Century! The book concerns itself with sowers rather than reapers, with important beginnings, no matter how humble they seemed in their time, rather than with fulfillment, which is in evidence at every turn. The Plot, or more correctly speaking in this book, the motivity of action developed in the period from 1833 to 1933, is a recital of the rise of women and their contribution to human welfare. The Characters are those great souls who have inspired and directed the movements, immortalized through their work in a lofty cause. It is the story of Movements rather than of individuals. The Setting is our own great Nation, Puritan New England, the aristocratic South, the workshop and the cultured home, the industrial center, and the farm from North and South and from Ocean to Ocean. The Climax is the conquest women have made in every field of endeavor. The Dramatic incidents fill every page of the book with episodes from the lives of those leaders who have had vision to see, courage to chart a course, and magnetism to draw others along. The story of the race has been one long struggle upward for woman, toward a plane of equality—social, economic, and political. The contents of "Angels and Amazons" falls into Three Books. Book-I They Stiv--Book II They Move—Book III They March. Chapter I, is a very delightful sketch of the Women of Colonial days, when they had more rights and privileges than in the early days of the Republic. Anne Hutchinson of New England, Margaret Brent of Maryland shine in very early days, as did Abigail Adams and Mercy Otis Warren in Revolutionary times. The publishing of whatever periodicals of these times were almost entirely in the hands of women. Ann Franklin, Sister-in-law of Benjamin's, was printer to the Colony of Rhode Island. Cornelia Bradford founded and published the Philadelphia Mercury in 1742. A Mrs. Zenger controlled the second paper in the City of New York in 1748. Anna K. Greene founded the Maryland Gazette in 1767. These are but a very few of the brilliant names of that day. The reaction which followed the war is most graphically told in the chapters dealing with the women of one hundred years ago. The Author says: "Studying the early part of the Nineteenth Century, one seems to see the whole sex as a vast, subnierged continent. Here and there a column of rock rises above murky waters. It is exciting, thrilling, profoundly moving, as one follows the years from 1833 to 1933, to see other rocky tors emerge—and more—and more— until gigantic chains of mountains have lifted themselves into the clear air. Gradually, the whole vast expanse rises into the light of the sun."And the stirring first manifests itself in that human activity which is the beginning of all progress—education." The entering wedge was made when women, in face of the bitterest opposition, began to enter the field of education, and to fight for equal advantages. Under this title—They Educate Themselves a splendid picture is drawn of these early struggles. According to the Author— RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE "Perhaps the greatest women educators of the period were Catherine Beecher, The Two Sisters, Emma Hart Willard, and Almira Hart Phelps. These did marvelous work in the training of Teachers. Zelpha Grant and Mary Lyon, certainly made educational history. In the beginning certain districts allowed. Girls to attend short terms of school while boys were on vacation. In 1826 a public high school was opened for girls but had to be closed the next year due to hostility against it. In 1821 the Troy Female Seminary was opened as the first institution in the United States offering higher education for women. In 1833 Oberlin College, Ohio, admitted men and women, black and white on equal terms, and in 1837 Mount Holyoke in South Hadley, Massachusetts, opened its doors. The educational way was really presented by the State Universities which for the most part were coeducational. In spite of this progress, the limitations and restrictions placed upon women were numerous and galling. Some of the large Universities of the East established Ladies' Annexes, but these were for the arts courses only. One ridiculous argument against the education of women was that it would invade the femininity of women, so, for the most part, the professions were closed to them. Women must not pursue subjects that would touch realities. Physiology, zoology, biology and anatomy were forbidden. Astronomy was allowed, presumably because there was nothing indelicate in the moon. In spite of all the victory of woman's cause in the field of educational training has been, perhaps, the most complete. The first of the professions women sought to enter was that of Medicine. Elizabeth Blackwell claims the distinction of being the first woman in modern times to take a medical degree. She was graduated at the head of her class from the University of Geneva, New York, in 1849. Emily Blackwell followed her sister and there are two other names that should be mentioned here, Marie Zakrewska and Mary Putnam Jacobi. The Chapters dealing with our early women Physicians are among the most dramatic and gripping in History. The urge to train for this came from a knowledge of the agonizing needs of women. The next Profession attracting women was the Ministry. Gentle, adorable, Lucretia Mott, was a Preacher in the Society of "Friends" to which she belonged. Julia Ward Howe often occupied the Unitarian pulpit. Antionette Brown Blackwell was the first woman, not only in American but in all the Christian World to be ordained a regular recognized clergyman. Augusta J. Chopin was the first woman to receive the title Doctor of Divinity, Law followed with a brilliant record. Ada Kepley was the first woman to be graduated from a law School, this in 1870. As the movement for education grew, the power of organization took hold of women. It is said that Anne Hutchinson started the first Woman's Club in America. Women were the chief sufferers from the evils of Slavery, Intemperance, the Double Standard of Morals, economic discriminations and of Misgovernment. Their first organized efforts therefore were to fight these great enemies. From the account of the first Woman's Rights» Convention held in Seneca Falls, New York, in 1848 to the ratification of the 19th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States in 1920, is one of the  most amazing reports in the whole history of reform movements. It is a story of the most magnificent battle ever waged in the cause of human rights. It was a steady educational campaign carried on in the spirit of its great leader who said: "T pray every single second of my life, not on my knees,. But with my work. My prayer is to lift women to equality with men'"—educational, social, economic and legal equality. The great pillars of the Woman's Suffrage Movement were undoubtedly Lucretia Mott, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Lucy Stone and Susan B. Anthony. Not one of these lived to see the actual adoption of the Suffage Amendment, but their labors were carried to completion by Dr. Anna Howard Shaw, Carrie Chapman Catt and some of the brilliant leaders of the Woman's Party. Education and organization moved on with the Beecher Sisters, Julia Ward Howe, Francis E. Willard, Clara Barton and scores of others. Temperance, Suffrage and Antislavery organizations were the most significant from 1833 to 1860. From a very early day Trade Unions played an important part in preparing women to take their place in the world of business and industry. The Appendix to our Book gives a fine statement of the organizations which have been the medium of expression of women's efforts in industrial, social, and educational fields. National and International Council of Women, General Federation of Women's Clubs, Business and Professional Women, American Association of University Women, American Child Health Association, American Federation of Teachers, National Woman's Party, National League of Women Voters, The Young Ladies' Mutual Improvement Association and The National Woman's Relief Society, are examples of the organizations. The Stream Becomes A River, is the closing chapter of this epic of American Womanhood—In 1833 it was Female—in 1883, Lady—1933, Woman. The story of how the first was dropped for the second and the second for the third is a thrilling record of effort and toil. It is a long step between the time when Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton were refused seats in an Anti-Slavery meeting in London, simply because they were women, and Ruth Bryan Owen, Ambassador to Denmark. Much has happened since the time Sojourner Truth, the Slave woman, who pled for protection and rights, and Francis Perkins, Secretary of Labor in the Cabinet of the President 'of the United States. Women are everywhere, in every field, in the sun, on the mountain above the clouds. In the day of the pioneer there were no women in trade, none in the professions, none in public life, only a handful in teaching, a smattering in the arts, and any woman who considered business as a career opened herself to the charge of being unsexed. Today we have a world peculiarly marked with the touch of strong feminine hands. It is much more than the mere struggle for equality that the book describes, however. Mrs. Irwin has been notably successful in painting the mental changes that have taken place in the American people due to feminine influence. The concluding portion of the book traces the work of the individuals and organizations of the past years. It isa realistic picture of the new place of women in a new and fast-changing world. Relief Society Pageant By Annie Wells Cannon Portraying the Educational Department At the Conference of the Relief Society on Wednesday Oct. 4, in the Assembly Hall the accompanving "Lesson in Pictures" was presented. THE LAUREL WREATH Prologue Music: "The Glory of God is Intelligence." Words of power divinely given In answer to a prophet's prayer, What more, oh Lord, is there To make the scheme complete? In the soft light of glorious vision Appeared a woman With hands upraised she seemed to say: "Oh Lord, let Thy light shine upon me." And lo! In her uplited hands was placed A laurel wreath. And at her feet there lay A book with golden clasp Shaped like a key. Slowly turned the golden key, Opened wide the wondrous book. Illumined on its every page In words divine "Behold the gifts of grace combine Devotion. Service, love, entwine And the laurel wreath is thine." During the reading a marble statue is chown, at the words "is thine" she comes to life places the wreath on a table, lifts the book, unclasps it and vanishes. Chapter I THEOLOGY Reader: "In the house of righteousness is much treasure." I hold within my hand this book I press it closely to my heart Its every word divinely given A holy message does impart. In reverence I turn the leaves I read and find "And thus if ye are faithful ye shall be laden with many sheaves;" Sweet words and kind. And then, O glorious promise to a world of strife For faith shall you be crowned with honor and glory and immortality And eternal life. During the reading of the selections from the lesson the figures on the stage assume different positions in illustration. Selections from Doctrine and Covenants 76:1-6; Jame? 1:5; Doctrine and Covenants 110:1-4: 76:19-23; 19:38-29; 65:2, 3; and Sec. 4. Curtain for Theology Tableau. 3 figures. Representing Faith, Hope and Charity. Chapter II THE TEACHER Music: Reader: "Charity Never Faileth." "And now abideth faith, hope and Charity, these three, but the greatest of these is charity." Tableau The curtain opens on the group of statuary known as Faith, Hope and Charity, while the Reader repeats: A message celestial came sweetly and clear To Israel's fair daughters reveal the glad tidings A mission of mercy for them to revere RELIEF SOCIETY PAGEANT 35 Go forth in all gladness and kindness and love Relieve the sad hearted, Your tenderness prove; Go comfort the weary, give cheer to the lonely, Remember the aged, forget not the poor; The mourner, the sufferer, the orphan the childless All call for your sympathy, tenderness, care; Relief is your motto, and labor your watchword, Be thoughtful and gentle, let love be your prayer. Let wisdom and faith guide your footsteps forever As forward you follow your labor of love. Let joy fill your hearts, and weary, No, never; For heaven and the angels shower Smiles from above! Other pictures representing teachers work might be introduced during this reading. Music Interlude Chapter III SOCIAL SERVICE OUR CHALLENGE (Enter Laurel.) Music: Introduction But Jesus said, "Suffer little children, and forbid them not to come unto me; for of such is the-kingdom of heaven." A challenge to the world is flung The Children's Charter, hold it high For every child the word has come Health, strength, happiness, build to the sky. "Spirit that made those spirits dare To die, and leave their children free," Today let not one effort spare Inspire this work for them and thee. Curtain for the Challenge OUR CHALLENGE Chapter IV LITERATURE Reader: "Seek ye knowledge out of the best books." How wonderful the golden dreams That men unto our mission bring, Whose God-like inspiration gleams When they have tasted the Pierian Spring. Curtain for Literature LIFE AND LITERATURE Reader: Oh rich is life, as down The vistas of the years we look, And find, Within time's golden book The treasures of the human mind. No satin pearls in ocean depths, Nor emeralds from Peruvian mines Nor rubies rare from southern climes Would we compare With gems of thought enfolded there. Within the shadows of the past When that which once was new Is now so old, (Enter Literature and Pages. One carrying a book and one an ancient lamp.) We scan the story of the ages It may be it is told By spoken word in mystic rhyme From generation to generation Throughout aeons of time, Perchance 'twere marked on marble walls Or pictured panels of stately halls Or sculptured on the mountain side Or plates of precious metal; But far and wide  (Turn and slowly take places in center of round platform.) By stone, papyrus, leather, However brought, Until the printed word What magic has God wrought To thus preserve for all mankind The world's best thought. Spoken, painted, sculptured, written It matters not, Throughout the centuries of time Literature is life's gift sublime. THE GIFTS OF THE GREEKS What kind of men were these Who worshipped at a pagan shrine Yet to a waiting world Brought gifts divine Plato, Aeschylus, Socrates, Aristotle, Lysian, Demosthenes And names innumerable, of such renown Triumphantly have worn the victor's crown. The Iliad and the Odessy Great Homer's gifts supreme And lovely Sappho's lyric songs Etherial as a dream Science, Art, Philosophy and Song Had magic birth at Athens' Parthenon. Tableau As each enters Reader continues Science—"Ah, who can tell how hard it is to climb the steep where Fame's proud temple shines afar?" Art—"It is the glory and the good of Art that it is the one way possible to speak the truth." Philosophy—"How charming is divine Philosophy! Musical as Apollo's lute, and a feast of nectared sweets." Poetry—'Some thoughtfully proclaim the muses nine a tenth is Lesbian's Sappho, maid divine." —Plato, translated by Lord Neaves. Each of these in Grecian costume takes place in turn at left of Literature. Picture Three. GIFTS OF THE ROMANS Imperial Rome! In men's hearts enthroned For gifts imperishable Whose lustre bright, Shines down the ages in reflected light. Caesar, Livy, Virgil, Horace, Cicero, Proud names to conjure with I trow, The classic culture of the Latin sage Still holds its place upon the world's great stage. (Enter Calpurnia, passes slowly and takes place in picture.) Tableau Reader: Calpurnia, Ceasar's wife, Empress of Rome. "When beggars die there are no comets seen; The heavens themselves blaze forth the death of princes." So spake Calpurnia to warn great Caesar, 'Beware the Ides of March." THE BIBLE AND ITS LITERATURE Great book of books! Your every page is fraught With words of such inspired thought That men of every tongue and clime Have learned throughout the years of time Life's greatest lessons. The wisdom of the prophets old, Their counsels, warnings manifold, In rare and classic verse are told From Genesis to Revelations; History, Drama, Poetry and Art, All are a part Of this most priceless treasure, And with the prophets, and the kings Woman too, her portion brings Of travail and of pleasure: (Enter Miriam, with lyre or ancient musical instrument.) Tableau Reader: There's Miriam, the singer in the wilderness: 'And Miriam took a timbral in her hand, and said, 'Sing ye to the Lord; for He hath triumphed gloriously!" Esther, queen and prophetess: (Enter Esther with scepter.) "And Esther obtained grace and favor in his sight, and the king loved Esther, so that he sat the royal crown upon her head, and made her queen." (Enter wheat.) Ruth, carrying sheeves of Ruth, the gleaner in the wheat With these words so softly sweet: "Entreat me not to leave thee or to return from following aiter thee; For whither thou goest I will go; And where thou lodgest [ will lodge; Thy people shall be my people, And thy God my God." (Enter Samarian, with picturesque water jar on shoulder.), Again in most dramatic word The story of the woman fair Who by the well in thoughtful mood Gave drink unto the Lord. This woman of Samaria In amazement heard her Lord declare "Tf thou knewest the gift of God, And who it is that saith to thee Give me to drink Thou would'st have asked of him, And he would have given thee living water. Who drinketh of this water Shall thirst again But whosoever drinketh of this water, I shall give him Shall be in him a well of water Springing up into Everlasting life." (Each in turn takes place at right of Literature.) Picture Five. ROMANCE In olden times, so we are told By sages and by poets too All maids were fair While knights were bold And came in armour bright to woo Germanic, Spanish, Celtic, French Each land its thrilling tale has wrought Of chivalry and of gay romance And pictures to the mind are brought Of lovers true and brave Like Siegfried and like Launcelot Who castles stormed with sword And lance A maiden fair to save. (Enter Brunhilde.) Reader: Brunhilde: "T stand in sight Of Siegfried's star For me he was, And for me he will ever be." Wagner. (Enter Guinevere.) Guinevere: "She seemed a part of joyous spring; A gown of grass green silk she wore, RELIEF SOCIETY PAGEANT 37 Buckled with golden clasps before, A light green tuft of plumes she bore Closed in a golden ring." Tennyson. (With graceful gesture each in turn slowly enters and takes place on left of picture. ) Picture Six. THE NOVEL—A SOCIAL RECORD The novel is a vital thing Its pages do express In interesting phrases ~ The different periods of time Their habits, speech and dress, And all life's social phases. Scott, Thackery, Dickens, Eliot, Conrad, Austen, Hawthorn, James, Disraeli, Lytton, And others might we name Of equal worth and fame, who chose In most delightful prose Their thoughts and fancies to disclose. (Enter Jane Austen, with parasol.) Some tales are true, And some are not; And some are purely fancy wrought; Though light or dark the pattern be It's leisure's simplest luxury. Tableau Reader: Jane Austen: The beautiful Jane Austen, England's first woman novelist. Picture Seven. SHAKESPEARE In the rich Elizabethan time By land and sea men ventured forth Great wealth to find; But one there was content to bide Along the placid Avon's side For in his mind, Such wealth of treasure lay That all the world unto this day Proclaim him master of his kind. Lovely women and gifted men Have walked the mimic stage Have played the parts, your facile pen Portrayed on written page Hamlet, Richard, Romeo, Othello, Lear and Prospero, Juliet, Katharine, Jessica, Rosalind, Miranda, Portia, In picture pass before our eyes As kings, and princes, lovers, fools Witches, fairies, jesters, ghouls In art that never dies. So real, so true personified By magic words are glorified. Great Shakespeare, immortal bard A laurel wreath we bring And in the realm of literature We crown thee king. (Enter Miranda.) Reader: Miranda, heroine of "The Tempest." "O' I have suffer'd With those that I saw suffer!' (Enter Desdemona.) Desdemona: "She loved him for the dangers he had passed: And he loved her that she did pity them." (Enter Juliet.) Juliet: "Did my heart love till now? Forswear it sight! For I ne'er saw true beauty till this night."  RELIEF SOCIETY PAGEANT 39 (These 3 group at right of Bible characters completing the semi circle.) Reader: What magic has God wrought To thus preserve for all mankind The world's best thought. Spoken, painted, sculptured, written It matters not, Throughout the centuries of time Literature is life's gift sublime. (Group turn toward Literature in graceful pose. Curtain.) DECALOGUE 'Let life attain the starry towers Lured to the bright divine ascent Be yours the things you would; be ours The things that are more excellent." Paraphrased from Watson. (Reader now steps to center, places book, poses as statue with wreath held high. Curtain.)