Preventing the Spread of the Common Cold By Lucy Rose Middleton IN spite of traditional dread of open windows and drafty buildings, there is no longer much doubt that the common cold is an infectious and contagious disease. It is true that medical science has not yet isolated the offending germ; in fact there is talk of its being "ultra-microscopic'"—that is, too small to be seen even by the most powerful modern microscopes. But a mass of evidence points to the communicability of colds. It is common knowledge that colds come in periodic waves during which a goodly proportion of the populace is stricken at once. These epidemics do not necessarily come at the coldest season of the year, and are therefore obviously not very closely related to the thermometer reading in the outer world. It is said that Eskimos and others who live isolated lives in the northern wilds do not get colds or pneumonia in spite of the most rigorous exposure to inclement weather. When brought in contact with the world at large, however, they seem no more resistant to these diseases than anyone else. Every observant person has had the experience of "catching cold" shortly after intimate contact with a friend who was already a victim of this universal disease. The moral of all this is plain: we catch cold from one another, and there is usually no justification for blaming our troubles on an innocent breath of fresh cool air wafted in through an open window. The prevention of the common cold is largely a matter of common sense and simple sanitary devices. It goes without saying that all influences which improve one's general health will increase resistance to this, and also to many other diseases. Regular habits, fresh air, sufficient sleep, enough nourishing food, good warm clothing, and avoidance of fatigue are all important. But a most vital factor of the protection is an intelligent avoidance of the spread of the infectious material of colds to one's own mouth and throat. A noted sanitarian struck at the center of the problem when he remarked "If human saliva were blue, we should be astonished how widely it becomes spread through our environment." It has been shown that during coughing and sneezing, and even during ordinary speech, a shower of tiny droplets of moisture is emitted from the mouth. Although they are too small to be seen, these droplets are capable of carrying hordes of infectious bacteria. The smallest of these droplets probably linger in the air for a short time before falling to the ground. If one has a cold and wishes to protect his fellows from acquiring it, he must carefully cover his mouth and nose with a handkerchief while sneezing or coughing. The modern mother will realize that it is much more important to keep her baby away from persons with colds than to swathe it in mountains of blankets in deference to the age-old horror of drafts. This is, of course, not to be construed as an argument against adequate protection of a baby's tender body by snug clothing during the chilly season. Contact with the world away from the household involves inevitably a considerable amount of exposure to  the virus of colds. Shopping, handling money, opening doors, shaking hands, and so forth, expose us to possible contamination. It should accordingly become a habit not to put the fingers needlessly in the mouth or nose. Before eating or preparing food the hands should be washed with soap and water. Soap has been found to be an excellent disinfectant, capable of killing contagious material with reliability and dispatch. HOT BREADS FOR BREAKFAST Twin Mountain Muffins 2 cups flour V4 cup sugar 14 cup melted butter l egg 1 cup milk 1/2 teaspoon salt 5 teaspoons baking powder Mix and sift dry ingredients well together. Combine liquid ingredients and add to the dry mixture as quickly as possible. Drop by spoonfuls in buttered muffin pans and bake 25 minutes in hot oven 400 degrees For variation use half white flour and half whole wheat or graham. The addition of chopped dates or raisins makes a pleasing change. Pop-Overs 1 cup flour 14 teaspoon salt 7/8 cup milk 2 eggs 4 teaspoon butter, melted Mix salt and flour together; add milk gradually, to make a smooth Beat whole eggs until light and add to the mixture. Add butter. Beat 2 minutes with egg beater, turn into hissing-hot buttered muffin pans. Bake 35 minutes, beginning with a hot oven, 450 degrees F. And decreasing gradually to moderate oven, 350 degrees F. As pop-overs start to brown. Waffles 2 cups flour 4 teaspoons baking powder 1 teaspoon salt 2 teaspoons sugar 2 cups milk 2 eggs 4 tablespoons melted fat Mix and sift dry ingredients. Add milk gradually, egg yolks well beaten, and egg whites beaten stiff. Cook on sufficiently hot waffle iron until well puffed and delicately browned. Serve with maple syrup.