"This is my letter to the world, That never wrote to me,— This simple news that Nature told With tender majesty. "Her message is committed To hands I cannot see; For love of her, sweet countrymen, Judge tenderly of me." Miss Dickinson breathes a note of poignancy through her poetry. "Success is counted sweetest By those who ne'er succeed. To comprehend a nectar Requires sorest need. "Not one of all the purple host Who took the flag today Can tell the definition, So clear, of victory, "As he, defeated, dying, On whose forbidden ear The distant strains of triumph Break agonized and clear." Often she wrote of death. The following poem is typical of the manner in which she treats the subject: "The bustle in a house The morning after death Is solemnest of industries Enacted upon earth,— "The sweeping up the heart, And putting love away We shall not use again Until eternity." Emily Dickinson gave the following characterization of poetry: "If I read a book and it makes my whole body so cold no fire can warm it, I know this is poetry. If I feel physically as if the top of my head were taken off, I know this is poetry. These are the only ways I know it." Because of her whimsy, her swift condensations, her "coyness with immensity," her vivacity, her quaint irregularities, her super-observation, her personal magic, she was not understood in her own day. It is said WOMEN IN LITERATURE that only four of her many poems for which she is now famous were published during her life. Now, nearly half a century after her death, she is regarded as one of the most outstanding poets of any age. Edna St. Vincent Millay is the foremost woman poet in America today. She was born in Rockland, Maine, in 1892 into a poetry-writing family. Her mother and sister have both published volumes of verse. She was educated at Vassar and wrote significant verse while a college student. When she was thirty-one, she married Eugene Boissevain, who has devoted himself to the task of shielding her from everything that would interfere with her happiness or poetic genius. She is a charming reader of her own verse, an excellent gardener, a good housekeeper, an amateur astronomer, a collector of seashells, an authority on horses and horse-races, and several other interesting things. She knows at least fifty birds by their songs; she knows thirty varieties of edible mushrooms. She swims, plays tennis, and is a musician. "Best of all, she puts her zest for life into her writing." She won recognition when she was nineteen for her remarkable poem "Renascence," which is still her best loved and best known poem, and one which, according to critics, she has not surpassed. It is an amazing account of a mystic, spiritual awakening from death to the beauty and goodness of life. It closes with the frequently quoted lines: "The world stands out on either side No wider than the heart is wide; Above the world is stretched the sky 457 No higher than the soul is high. The heart can push the sea and land Farther away on either hand; The soul can split the sky in two And let the face of God shine through." Miss Millay has published several volumes of poems including Second April, The Harp-Weaver, Wine from These Grapes, Conversation at Midnight, and Huntsman, What Quarry? It was she who wrote the libretto for Deems Taylor's opera, The King's Henchman. Twice she has been awarded the Pulitzer prize for the best poetry written during the year. Many of her loveliest poems are on nature. A favorite one is "God's World," reprinted many times from her volume Renascence, published in 1917. GOD'S WORLD "O world, I cannot hold thee close enough! Thy winds, thy wide grey skies! Thy mists, that roll and rise! Thy woods, this autumn day, that ache and sag And all but cry with colour! "Long have I known a glory in it all, But never knew I this; Here such a passion is As stretcheth me apart,—Lord, I do fear Thou'st made the world too beautiful this year; My soul is all but out of me,—let fall No burning leaf; prithee, let no bird call." Besides the poets discussed, there are, of course, many others of almost as great importance. Nor is it alone in poetry that women have achieved in the literary field. There are distinguished writers of other types of literature as well, particularly of the novel. Some of our great women novelists will be discussed in next month's issue of the Magazine. The Church Welfare Program By Elder Harold B. Lee Managing Director, Church Welfare Program (Relief Society Conference Address, April 3, 1940) This afternoon I have been asked to talk briefly to the subject of types of welfare projects that might be undertaken by the Relief Society. When I consider that subject, I find myself somewhat at a loss to give you specific suggestions because of the varied conditions under which you live. I am mindful of a statement made by President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., recently in which he said: "One of the dangers that faces the whole Church is that we are trying from our central organizations to prescribe every detail which you people out in the field are to do. That is absolutely wrong. It never provides any growth for the people in the field. They spend all their time trying to follow your directions, all initiative is destroyed. All that we should do here from the center is to suggest the general plan, and to you should come the responsibility and the necessity of developing the details. Otherwise, I repeat, we crush your initiative. This Church, to use a modern term, must not be regimented, for any Church or organization or system that is regimented is on the road to decay." And so it shall not be my purpose here today to present what may appear to be a formula, but merely some general suggestions to which you might supply the details as they may seem to meet your own peculiar circumstances. The first point in the Relief Society's responsibility in the welfare plan is to assume the responsibility for making the initial survey on the green card for the ward employment record. We have been talking about that survey for four long years. I hold in my hand here a report showing that despite the fact that it has been urged for four years, fifty per cent of the wards in the Church as yet do not have any cards and have not made any survey. We think we have pleaded long enough with the brethren of the Priesthood; and as Sister Lyman suggested in a meeting some time ago, I would like to say that we are looking to you Relief Society presidents to see that this survey is made, realizing that intelligent activity in the welfare plan cannot be conducted until it is completed. So may we assume that with this suggestion that the survey is necessary, you sisters have received a commission, which I trust you will hear more of from Sister Lyman. The second point for Relief Society to observe is attendance at the welfare meetings. Some of you have asked, "Is a ward welfare committee necessary?" Let me ask you, "Do you think a Relief Society organization is necessary?" Let me ask you, "Do you think a ward bishop is necessary in a ward? Do you think a personal welfare committee composed of the Priesthood brethren is necessary in the Church?" Those who preside seem to think so, and we assume that they know what they are doing. With these Church THE CHURCH WELFARE PROGRAM agencies charged with the responsibility of looking into the welfare of the membership of the Church in a ward, may I ask you, can you see the confusion that would result if the separate agencies all set about separately to handle welfare matters in their own way without any consultation? It needs no argument to convince you that consultation is absolutely essential, and that this consultation should take place in a weekly ward welfare committee meeting where the program can be mapped out and plans and assignments made for the ensuing week. Those attending the meeting would be the bishop, the Relief Society president and her work director, the personal welfare chairman of the high priests, seventies, elders, and Aaronic Priesthood, and the ward work director. Some have said, "Are not these matters to be considered so confidential that they should not be discussed by such a large group?" It is rather an interesting thing that the objection to the holding of these meetings and this consultation comes almost in every instance from those who are not holding the meetings regularly. It reminds me of what President Grant says, "The only people who complain about what is done with the tithing are those who do not pay tithing." That we find to be true with respect to those welfare committees reporting their lack of activity. To those who doubt the wisdom of this consultation, may we say to you that if all you propose to do with the persons needing assistance is to give them an order on the storehouse, or a little cash, you had better keep your activities secret; but 459 if your purpose is to help to find work and get employment for them, you need not hesitate to speak of it, and those you are trying to assist will not be offended. If my name is before your committee, and all you are going to do about my problem is to hand me an order on the storehouse, then keep it a secret. I would not want you to talk about it. But if you are going to help me to find a job, if you are trying to work out ways and means so that I can work for what I need, I would want you to make it known to all who are in a position to help.