A courageous and valiant woman, her life of almost a century was full of rich experiences and vivid memories. Delia Winters Booth, of Provo, Utah, who died last month, was outstanding in many lines of endeavor. She was an early educator and artist, established a woman's cooperative store, engaged in the silk industry, and was active in church and civic work. Mrs. Sarah L. Allred at 85, as she took her first plane ride last month, said she was delighted with the convenience of modern transportation. She went from Salt Lake to San Francisco to visit her daughters and, incidentally, take in the Fair. E. M. Delafield has another charming story of her Provincial Lady, this time in War Time. The Whippoorwill by Marjory Kinnan Rawlings, Mr. Skeffington by Elizabeth, The Bird in the Tree, by Elizabeth Goudge are all fine books for summer reading.  

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE

 Editor - - - - - - - Belle S. Spafford Acting Business Manager - - - - - - - - Amy Brown Lyman  

Vol. XXVII JULY, 1940 No. 7 EDITORIAL Our Anchor of Trust and Safety From the pulpit and through the press, by precept and example, for more than one hundred years the leaders of the Church have been teaching the Latter-day Saint people the principles of the Gospel. They have exhorted us to live the laws and keep the commandments; to uphold, both at home and abroad, Church standards. Strict adherence to these standards would not only make a strong and influential people, but it would make a happy and secure people. Yet, how far removed we are from perfection in this regard! We accept the wisdom of the teachings; we recognize the truth embodied in them, but we are inclined to be apathetic with regard to living them. The good life we know to be the desirable life, but it is also the hard one. The Savior said, "... Strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it" (Matt. 7:14). Latter-day Saint standards are behavior patterns, which if adopted as a way of life would bring complete life fulfillment. To say that one standard is more important than another would be false. Each has its place in the plan of life and salvation. But there are times and circumstances when certain standards take on special significance in our lives. At the present time, we could with profit turn our attention to the importance of secret and family prayers.