"I don't know." He began showing her. He was a fluent and persuasive speaker. Carolyn forgot his words in listening to the inflections of his voice, in watching the muscles of his mouth. She felt her spirit flow out to meet his. "Do you see now?" "Huh? Oh, I beg your pardon. I wasn't listening." "I thought so." "Yes, I was," she said softly, "but to something out of the past. Forgive me. I shall really listen." For a moment he did not speak. She saw his knuckles whiten. With an effort he began. His thoughts were clear and concise. At once the thing began to take shape in her mind. "If you two are going to talk all evening, how am I to study?" Dennis complained. "Go into the living room," his father answered quickly. There was no annoyance in the words. In 475 pointing to a certain sentence, his finger shook. Immediately he stood. "Read your material over again with that thought in mind. Make a note of everything that bears on it. Another time I will help you organize it." He left then, ostensibly to look over things before going to bed. Instead of reading, Carolyn simply sat, and felt. Already the material had opened her eyes to a world of past mistakes and future possibilities. She saw the tremble of Turner's hand. Some day he would relent; and when he did, she would hold fast to that which was good. In the meantime, Bob, buttoning a heavy jacket about him, had gone out into the crackling cold night. He knew now what he was going to do. He had been alone a great deal this winter, and he was hungry for companionship. Perhaps Mother was right about June. Was she angry; or, a cold chill went down his spine, had she found it was the other man? Joe Colts, he knew, was just someone to go places with. He did not count. Snow lay over everything, but it was not deep. The roads were all open. Getting his skis, he threw them over his shoulder and struck east toward the Elkhorn. As he neared the ranch buildings, he caught sight of figures against the white of Bald Mountain. The crowd was up there skiing. He was soon at the foot of the slope. Disdaining the easy way, he started up. At the top, he was greeted with shouts and reproaches. "Hi there, hermit," Joe called. "It is time you were coming to earth," Lucile added tartly. 476 "Why didn't you bring Carson?" another asked. Bob was stooping. He raised his head quickly. "Carson?" he asked. He disliked talking about his brother. "I thought Tim said he talked to him this afternoon." "I did," Tim told him, "but it was this evening, not this afternoon. He was very likely on his way home." June was poised for the descent. "Come on," Joe called, and was gone. But she hung back. The crowd that had resented her at first now acknowledged her as its leader. She had not accomplished this, Bob admitted, by staying home. She would always make herself a part of things. She would want someone who would do the same.