As a member of the General Board of the Y. W. M. I. A, she served for thirty-nine years, working valiantly for the benefit of the youth of the Church. Her voice has been heard in practically all of the stakes and wards of the Church in the interest of this organization. Her devotion to temple work has been an inspiration. Not only has she given of her time and strength to this cause, but she likewise gives liberally of her means for research work in genealogy. In addition to serving as a missionary in Japan, in her capacity as the wife of the President of  

 Church, she has traveled extensively; and everywhere, in her modest but effective way, she has testified to the truth of the Gospel of the Master. We admire Sister Grant as a mother—as the mother of her only child and as a mother to the nine motherless children of her husband. These she has brought up in the fear of the Lord, and their fine upright lives are an outstanding tribute to her motherhood. We honor Sister Grant for her devotion and loyalty to her husband, President Heber J. Grant, our beloved leader. She has always respected his desires and has taught their children to do likewise. She sympathizes with him in his great responsibilities and sustains him with her full support. Sister Grant inherits many of her fine qualities from her intelligent and outstanding mother, Mary Ann Winters, who was a woman of great faith; who was open minded, high minded and wide minded; who was public spirited and gave freely of her time and energy in the interest of education and in the raising of family and community standards. From her noble father, Oscar Winters, she inherits her calmness and evenness of disposition, her poise and balance, her wisdom and good judgment. Her philosophy of life she summed up recently when she said: "I have always tried to be satisfied with what has come to me. I have never wanted anything that I could not have." (Reprint from Millennial Star) (Editor's Note: Mary Grant Judd, the only daughter of Augusta Winters Grant, and a member of the Relief Society General Board, is writing a biography of her mother. Because of the rich life experiences and noble character of Sister Grant, the book is looked forward to with interest. Mrs. Judd hopes to have it completed within the year.) Blessed Event Olive W. Burt Nancy had never in all her life been to a Fourth of July celebration. "A good old American 'shindig,'" she called it in her own mind, a little contemptuously, as she searched for a frock that might possibly be cool on this stifling day. She wouldn't be going this morning, either, if it weren't for Donny and Rosemary. But what could a mother do? Children took these things so seriously. And when Donny had asked her with that anxious look in his eyes, "You will come, Moms?" she had had to promise. But she hated it, and as soon as the parade was over she would bring the children back home to the comparative coolness of their shady porch and the quiet of their own yard. Fourth of July, indeed! And was that any excuse for having little children march up and down in the hot sun, eat popcorn and hot dogs and lemonade, sing and yell and get tired and dirty waiting for the fireworks at night? Nancy remembered, as she slipped the gay print over her head, straightened the skirt and smoothed her hair, that she had wanted to go to a Fourth of July celebration when she was small. She remembered swinging on the fence gate of her aunt's big yard and watching other families go by, straw-hatted and wheeling baby buggies, to see the grand parade and the fireworks. But Aunt Emily hadn't believed in it; and by the time Nancy was in high school, she had so completely absorbed Aunt Emily's point of view that she looked with young scorn on such noisy demonstrations of patriotism. "Of course I'm an American!" she had said once, "but I don't know that I want to yell about it from the housetops. If we've anything to be proud of, it certainly isn't the way we act on the Fourth of July!" When she had first married Terry, she had learned, with surprise, that he couldn't understand her attitude about the national holiday. "Relax, Nance!" he had cried, "let's get in an' celebrate! Gosh, what's the Fourth for if it isn't to let off a little steam? I'm mighty proud to be an American, and this is one day I can shout it to the world. Come on, let's go to the parade and stay to see the fireworks. They're going to be wonderful!" She had given up trying to make Terry see her way; but she had stuck tenaciously to her own customs, and gradually Terry had given up bothering her. As Nancy adjusted her wide-brimmed hat half rebelliously, she thought of the many, many matters in regard to which she had had to fight for her ideals against Terry's easy-going ways. But his dyed-in-the-wool, one hundred per cent Americanism had annoyed her the most. It had come to an open quarrel when Donny had started to school. The children had a drum and bugle corps and raised the flag every morning with a fanfare that sounded, to Nancy, suspiciously like a military camp. During this ceremony, every child would stop play- 448 ing marbles or hop-scotch or jump-the-rope and stand at attention, a small hand at a fluttering heart and serious eyes raised to the fluttering banner. The children loved it, and the first thing Donny had asked for was a drum or bugle so that he could join the corps. Terry had agreed, laughing with pride at the boy's enthusiasm. But Nancy had put her foot down. "It's too much regimentation, Terry!" she had objected. "I am not going to have Donny grow up thinking about war. I simply will not have him turn into a soldier, and the only way to prevent it is to teach him that all things connected with war are abhorrent." "But, Nance! There's something about a drum and a bugle and a flag flying that gets you. I don't see how you can resist it. And it isn't making a soldier of Don. It's just making a good American of him." "Good American, my eye!" Nancy had retorted: But Donny hadn't had his drum or bugle, and he had never been allowed to join the exciting corps. Nancy had even taken it up at the Parent-Teacher Association meeting and had made quite a row. But the silly custom was retained in spite of her, and she had drawn away from the organization in resentful pride. "It's these newer Americans that make all the trouble," Nancy explained to herself. "They are so thrilled with all their opportunities that they want to take part in everything. Their enthusiasm makes them noisy, and the rest of us have to keep up with them, or else be thought callous." She smiled wryly, 

 

 "I'll wager that there'll be more Tuellers and Finklesteins and Olsens and Rinettis at the parade today than there are Jeffersons or Madisons or Adamses." As she hurried down the sweltering street, she was worrying about Donny and Rosemary. It was so dreadfully hot! Why had she ever consented to their marching? She knew well enough why she had consented. It was something in the hopelessness of Donny's voice as he had said, "All the playground kids are going to make a big, living flag for the Fourth of July parade, Mother. Miss Nelson said I was such a good marcher that I could be at the end and keep the whole line straight, if I could be in it. But I told her you didn't like parades...."