He prayed that the gods would allow him to live long enough to learn it by heart. Plato paid her this marvelous tribute: "Some thoughtlessly proclaim the muses nine; A tenth is Lesbian Sappho, maid divine." Horace, the great Latin poet, says: "Sappho is a kind of miracle, for within the memory of man, there has not, so far as we know, lived any woman to be mentioned along with her in the matter of poetry." WOMEN IN LITERATURE Critics say that her influence, like that of Homer, went far in determining the character of all subsequent Greek poetry and art—to keep it pure and high, above sensuality and above sentimentalism. Sappho was the leader of a group of women devoted to the pursuit of music and poetry. These students were held to the poetess by strong ties of intimacy and affection. This group is compared to the circle of Socrates. Sappho trained her companions in lyric art, sometimes with the view of their taking part in religious festivals. She composed many bridal odes for her students when they left her circle to be married. Sappho herself married rather late in life. Her husband was the wealthy Cercylac; she became the mother of a daughter whom she named for her own mother, Cleis. Among the fragments of her poetry which have come down to us, is one referring to her child: "I have a little maid so fair As any golden flower; My Cleis dear, For whom I would not take all Lydia Nor lovely Lesbos here." Lydia is a name for Greece, or a significant part of it, and Lesbos the lovely island-home of Sappho. Sappho's friends read her poems in nine books, of which we have but fragments. She wrote in varied styles. Fifty different meters can be found in the poems which have come down to us. She wrote on many subjects, but her love poems made her immortal. Two of these were preserved by accident, the rest of her love poems being burned several hundred years after they were written, as being too much for shaky morals. 453 Her poetry shows a fine sense of the beauty in the natural world. She feels all the living beauty of nature, as may be seen from the following short excerpts: "Early uprose the golden-slippered dawn." "The stars about the pale-faced moon Veil back their shining forms from sight, As oft as, full with radiant round, She bathes the earth with silver light." "I heard the foot-fall of the flowery spring." The thing that called forth her greatest admiration was a cultivated, genial, loving soul at home in a beautiful body. She was interested in personal feeling, mostly tender and introspective. She expresses with a burning intensity the inner life, the passions that are generally silent. "To the Beloved" is one of her choice love poems. Although most of her poetry has been lost, enough remains to cause one writer to say: "Sappho's white, speaking pages of dear song, Yet linger with us, and will linger long." Elizabeth Barrett Browning is another poet known chiefly for her love poems. She was the eldest of eleven children of Edward Barrett. When she was fifteen years old, she received an injury to her spine which made her an invalid the rest of her life. However, her health was so much better after she met and loved Robert Browning that she felt that she had been snatched from death by the hand of love. Her father objected to her marrying, so she and Robert eloped and went to Italy to make their home. They lived happily in Florence for fifteen years—during 454 the remainder of her life. During that time a son was born to them, and both she and her poet-husband wrote some of their best works. Elizabeth is chiefly known for her Sonnets from the Portuguese, a record of her exciting experiences during her days of courtship and early marriage. When she gave the poems to her husband, she told him to read and then tear them up. Browning was completely carried away by the tenderness and beauty of the sonnets. He said afterwards that he dared not reserve to himself the finest sonnets, written in any language, since Shakespeare's. One critic says that in these poems, ranging from a surprised despair to an ecstatic idolatry, Mrs. Browning has not only surpassed all those who had preceded her, except Shakespeare, but all that were to follow with the possible exception of Rossetti; and that in this sequence she has not only written her own masterpiece, but perhaps the masterpiece among long poems by women. In speaking of the love that saved her, in the first sonnet of the cycle she says: "Straightway was I 'ware, So weeping, how a mystic shape did move Behind me, and drew me backward by the hair; And a voice said in mastery, while I strove, 'Guess who now holds thee?' 'Death,' I said. But, there The silver answer rang, 'Not Death, but Love.' " One of the best loved of these sonnets is the next to the last one. "How do I love thee? Let me count the ways. I love thee to the depth and breadth and height My soul can reach when feeling out of sight 

 

 For the ends of being and ideal grace. I love thee to the level of every day's Most quiet need, by sun and candle light. I love thee freely, as men strive for right. I love thee purely as they turn from praise. I love thee with the passion put to use In my old griefs, and with my childhood's faith. I love thee with the love I seemed to lose With my lost saints,—I love thee with the breath, Smiles, tears, of all my life!—and, if God choose, I shall but love thee better after death." Elizabeth Browning wrote of other things besides love. Her poem The Cry of the Children has been classed with Hood's The Song of the Shirt and Markham's The Man With the Hoe as voicing with all the eloquence of great sympathy a despair heretofore inarticulate—a cry for those who had found no one to speak for them and could not speak for themselves. These voices crying out against injustice forced the world to give heed to the needs of the working children, the overburdened man in the factory, the bowed and beaten farmer. Her longest poem, the narrative Aurora Leigh, gives her views and ideals concerning poetry. At the same time, she is telling a delightful story and is presenting interpretations and criticisms on the period in which she lived. She says: "I do distrust the poet who discerns No character or glory in his times. Their sole work is to represent the age. This is living art Which thus presents and thus records true life." One of Mrs. Browning's poems, particularly interesting in the present disheartening time of war, is Mother WOMEN IN LITERATURE and Poet. She reveals in this dramatic monologue, through the feeling of one woman, a poet, who lost both her sons in the war of Italy, the feelings of all mothers about war. She has this woman ask a pertinent question: What is the use of fighting for a country if the men who should enjoy the freedom they fight for are not left when the war is over? "'Twere imbecile hewing out roads to a wall. And when Italy's made for what end is it done, If we have not a son?" In Japanese literature, women have excelled from the earliest times. As early as the ninth century, a woman was among the leading poets. In the next century lived another great woman poet whose work, recently translated, is taking the western world by storm. Modern times reveal that poetry is still an important practice in Japan and especially among the women. The modern woman of that country makes poetic composition a part of her life. One Japanese woman in America has covered her kitchen walls with little poems. The following stanzas (tankas) are taken from three modern Japanese women poets who take their place beside the best: "There are many steps Up to my heart. He climbed perhaps two or three." "A wave of coldness passed between us And the distance of a foot Becomes a thousand miles." "There is another Besides myself To weep for him— That is my bitterness." "The white iris 455 And the purple iris Grow side by side in the pond Yet never open their hearts To each other." "My old self Whispers from behind me: 'There is danger ahead!' My young self cries, 'On! On!' " "Today I met a stranger— Though for ten years I have lived with him." "How shall I choose which way to go? To the fiery depths of hell Or to the dullness of heaven?" "We are all standing on the same earth, Yet is not my world Different from the world Of anyone else?" "Behold the cherry blossoms, How they bloom to their utmost, Knowing that tomorrow They must fall." "How disagreeable it is For three women to travel together! One of them is always lonesome." Two qualities are outstanding in Japanese poetry. One is the symbolism. The poet will, by the genius of his imagination, discover the "ultimate meaning of life in the trembling of a cherry blossom." The other is the secret of suggestion "the minimum of statement for the maximum of meaning." Note how much is told in the lines quoted above. America has produced several outstanding women poets. The earliest to achieve wide recognition was Emily Dickinson. Her poetry in some respects resembles that of the Japanese women poets. It is emblematic. She employs lovely and striking imagery; her poetry is full of surprises and challenges. Like the Japanese, she uses "the minimum of statement for the maximum of suggestion." As one critic says, "She 456 fashioned her imagist etchings fifty years before imagism became a slogan." Another commentator declares her to be the most original American poet and in some ways the most remarkable woman poet since Sappho. She was born in Amherst, Massachusetts, in 1830, the daughter of a Puritan father who had a great influence upon her. She loved a man already married, and the abnegation she made also affected her life and her writing. She loved housewifery, but often interrupted housewifery tasks to write a puzzle or a poem. Her life was uneventful. She seldom left her home and had but a small circle of friends and acquaintances. She adored her father and once said, "If Father is asleep on the sofa, the house is full." One trip to Washington and a short period away from home attending a school, which she did not like, were the two main interruptions in her quiet life. There have been many suppositions about her strange disappointment in love. Some writers think the man was the husband of her closest friend. Two dramas, Alison's House and Brittle Heaven have grown out of suppositions concerning this part of her life. She tells of her love in many of her poems. HEART WE WILL FORGET HIM "Heart we will forget him! You and I tonight! You may forget the warmth he gave, I will forget the light. "When you have done, pray tell me, That I my thoughts may dim; Haste! Lest while you're lagging, I may remember him." Her whimsy is illustrated in the following: