Be Changed?", "Food Facts, Fads, and Fancies.") Diets to Fit the Family Income, Bulletin No. 1757, U. S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. The Day's Food Supply, N. S. Go, U. S. A. C. Extension Service, Logan, Utah. (This bulletin available to residents of Utah. Similar publications may be had from other state extension service officers.) Consumer's Research, Inc., Washington, New Jersey. Write for list of free materials, pamphlets and other publications on cosmetics. Parent's Magazine, February, 1939, (contains a good article on care of children's hair and nails). Write for any publications on cosmetics to Dept. of Agriculture, Washington, D. C. Literature The Modern Novel ?Introduction (Tuesday, October 22) Why do millions of people spend millions of hours every year reading novels? There are many answers to the question. Some read "to keep from thinking." In troubled times like our own perhaps even that is reason enough. If one has only worries and forebodings to think about and if a novel will give romantic escape from reality for a time, it is doing a real service. Others read for entertainment or amusement. Some, no doubt, read in order to be "up" on the best sellers, so they may discuss books superiorly with their friends. But we have been studying the novel the past two years and will continue it this year for more significant reasons than any of these. We may, for instance, gain from novels a broadened view of life as we share the intellectual, emotional, and spiritual experiences of writers whose literary gifts enable them to see more deeply into life and to understand more truly than we do, and to record what they see and feel beautifully and impressively. Thus, our narrower horizons are widened, our appreciations deepened. Most of us are very limited in opportunities for travel, to associate with great personalities. But through books we may go not only to far away countries but to past ages and share vicariously the work, the play, the dreams, the defeats and triumphs of the people in the novelist's world of illusion, learning thereby that the 490 fundamental human emotions and ideals are the same in all countries and all ages. We come to realize 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940

 more fully the meaning of the "brotherhood of man and the fatherhood of God." Lesson I Adam Bede Lesson Topics 1. George Eliot 2. Adam Bede?the plot 3. Values to be gained from this novel 4. Lesson helps Doubtless, many of you have previously read Adam Bede. But good literature, like good music, can be enjoyed many times. Besides the mere pleasure one gets from the story of a good novel?the excitement of meeting new people and sharing their adventures and struggles?there are other values, and these are more easily recognized on a second or third reading of a worthwhile book. Great masterpieces have intellectual, emotional, and ethical values in the subject matter and an independent value in the style. To make the time we spend in reading profitable, we should be alert to find these values. The chief purpose of this course is to help us do that?to form the habit of asking of whatever we read, "What do you have to give me?" If we can learn to do this and to apply what we gain from reading to our daily lives, then the course will have accomplished its objective. Adam Bede is one of the great English novels. It has something of all the values just mentioned, as it was written by a gifted novelist, one who saw deeply into the human soul and knew how to reveal what she found there. George Eliot George Eliot (this is the pen name chosen by Mary Ann Evans, because in her time woman had not yet found her place in the professional world ) is one of the greatest novelists of the 19th century. She has often been compared to Shakespeare. Like him, she saw beneath the surface of people and life. She was the first great psychological novelist in English literature and did much to encourage and influence later writers of her type. Like the dramatist, she takes the crises resulting from a long train of events set in action by something seemingly trivial and reveals the relation of the first slight action to its often tragic result. We see in her novels the conflicts of mind and soul resulting from these previous mistakes and weaknesses. Her dominating theme might be stated thus: All deeds have their eternal consequences. Critics point out that she took "an epoch-making step in internal realism when she dealt psychologically with states of consciousness and feelings, arranging and defining these with scientific precision." This manner of dealing with the invisible life placed her on the highest peak, some scholars believe, ever attained by a psychological novelist. She is known primarily as a novelist, but she wrote poetry as well; and in her poems also "she embodies her doctrine of the act on its inevi- LESSON DEPARTMENT table train of good and evil." Her poem The Choir Invisible is a good illustration. Living in a time of religious controversy, when many people lost their faith in the fundamentals which give the deepest meaning and truest satisfactions to life, she was affected by that atmosphere. She lost her faith in the religion of her youth, even in personal immortality; but she recognized a kind of immortality in the influence of one's living on in lives of persons that he has touched. She says: "O may I join the choir invisible Of those immortal dead Who live again in minds made Better by their presence." George Eliot disregarded one of the greatest institutions of civilization, that of marriage. Perhaps she had a greater justification than most people who do what she did. But she seemed to realize that her act might have an effect upon others, for over and over in her novels she emphasizes the unhappiness, the disintegration that result from such disregard. She wrote several great novels besides Adam Bede. Among the best are Silas Marner, perfect, critics claim, from the point of technique; The Mill on the Floss, significantly autobiographical; and Romola, a novel upon which she worked for years, and for which it is said she read "a library of books" in preparation. Adam Bede?the plot Every story or drama has three essential elements: setting, characters, and plot. Most of them, too, have a theme, a central idea or impression which the author wishes to 491 enforce. The plot, which implies a struggle or conflict, is the means by which the theme is presented. It is the series of events, in the formally constructed novel, leading up to a crisis, or climax, the point where we know the struggle is to be decided in favor of one or the other of the persons or forces opposing each other. It is through the plot that we get our chief emotional value from a novel. Such emotions as love, pity, anger, hate are played upon as we share the experiences of the characters. We become one with them, and our lives are enriched by these vicarious experiences. In brief, the story of Adam Bede is this: Adam Bede, an honest, highly honorable carpenter, falls in love with Hetty Sorrel, an orphan living with her aunt and uncle who are tenants on the Donnithorne estate. Hetty is a shallow girl, but very pretty. When young Arthur Donnithorne, heir apparent to the estate, comes home on a furlough from the army, she attracts him by her beauty. Encouraged by him, she falls in love with him. They have many secret meetings. After one of these, Adam sees them kissing each other goodby. He knows that Arthur cannot have serious intention of marrying Hetty, because she is beneath him socially. Although Adam and Arthur have been friends since childhood, Adam cannot bear to see the girl he loves made unhappy. He condemns Arthur's actions, and they have a duel. Adam so seriously injures his old friend that for a time he thinks he has killed him. When Arthur recovers, Adam compels him to write to Hetty and tell her that they can never marry. 492 Shortly after this, Donnithorne goes back to the army. But this does not solve the problem his intimacy with Hetty has brought about. Hetty, who has promised to marry Adam, discovers that she is to be a mother. She pretends that she is going to see a friend, Dinah Morris, in a neighboring town. But she goes to try to find Arthur, thinking that when he knows the truth, he will marry her. His regiment has gone to Ireland. Hetty is desperate and cannot decide what to do. Her baby is born in a rooming house. When it is a few days old, Hetty slips away with it to the woods. Here she leaves it, covered with leaves. But she imagines she can hear it cry continually, and at last she goes back, only to find that it has died and has been taken away. Later, she is arrested for child-murder. Adam, who still loves her and feels that she is but a victim of Arthur's selfishness, tries in every way he can to save her. But he can do little. Presently, Arthur returns from the army because of the death of his uncle, who leaves him master of the ancestral estate. When he learns what has happened to Hetty, he does everything in his power to save her. He succeeds only in having her death-sentence changed to deportation. She is sent away and dies a few years later in a foreign land. In his remorse for what he has brought upon her and Adam and others, Arthur goes back to the army for a number of years. Adam, still loving poor Hetty, grieves for her as he continues to care for his mother and brother, Seth, his drunken father having drowned some time before. Later, however, 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940

 he finds happiness in the love of the beautiful Methodist preacher, Dinah Morris, who was Hetty's real friend all through her trouble. Values This is a bare outline of the outstanding events in the story. There are many incidents connected with each of the main characters, some humorous, some dramatic, But the chief incidents have to do with the sin of Hetty and Arthur and the tragic consequences which affected so many lives besides their own. As has been noted, the story is psychological in its implications; that is, the struggles are within the minds and souls of the characters. There are no villains, and no perfect characters. Arthur is not all bad; on the contrary, he is, like the characters in the old Greek dramas, essentially noble but with a weakness which results in tragedy. That weakness brings suffering and shame to himself and others. We should be able to make some use in our lives of the emotional responses we give to this story. The ancient Greeks believed that the pity one felt when he beheld suffering in a play and the fear with which he viewed tragic consequences of mistakes, were saving influences. At least our pity for Hetty, our sympathy for Adam and his brother, Seth, who loves Dinah Morris in vain, our admiration for Dinah?each such emotional response has some bearing upon our attitudes and reactions to situations in actual life as they confront us. We see what makes these people the kind of persons they are.