Such a study helps us to a better understanding of LESSON DEPARTMENT people around us?even of ourselves. This has been but a brief discussion of a few phases of Adam Bede. The next two lessons will consider the setting and the characters with particular emphasis upon the intellectual and ethical values we should be able to gather from these elements of the novel. Teaching Helps (Assign before the lesson is discussed. ) 1. Give a sketch of the life of George Eliot, emphasizing particularly her literary contributions. 2, Give a list of other novels by George 493 Eliot, indicating briefly the nature of each. 3. Give by narration and reading (after the lesson has been presented) some of the highlights of the story; such as: a. Part of Chapter IV, "Home and Its Sorrows." (Tell the first part of the chapter; then read from the point where the author says, "The coffin was soon propped on the tall shoulders of the two brothers" to the end of the chapter.) b. Chapter XXVII, "The Crisis." (Tell the first part and read from "What do you mean, Adam?" to the end of the chapter. ); c. Chapter XLV, "In the Prison." (Tell the first part and read from "Dinah," Hetty sobbed, "I will tel?I won't hide it any more." to the end of the chapter.) Social Service EDUCATION FOR FAMILY LIFE Lesson I The Influence of Religion in the Home (Tuesday, October 29) The Cradle of Civilization. The family is the basic unit of society. No nation is greater than its homes, no society stronger than the ties of kinship and common interest that integrate the members of the family. Since the most important period in a person's life is the plastic years of infancy, when the mother has such a great influence on the child, the parents should take advantage of every opportunity which the fireside affords in the important mission of character training. Dr. Henry Van Dyke declared, "If the old-fashioned American family life vanishes, nothing can take its place." Character, like charity, certainly begins at home. The school, the church, and all their agencies of instruction and reform, are inferior to the home as institutions of moral and religious training. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., has said of the strategic position the home occupies as an institution of character development: Again I say, not out of the school, nor the concert hall, nor the theatre, not out of the stadium, nor the movie, nor the radio, not even out of the church itself by itself, nor out of all of them together, shall come the mutual respect for the rights of others, the restraining of will and selfishness, the due obedience to proper authority, the forbearance, the devotion to duty, the poorness of spirit, the repentance for sin, the meekness, the hunger and thirst for righteousness, the mercy, the pureness of heart, the peacemaking, the honesty, the sterling integrity, 494 the charity, the love, the reverence, that shall make the citizenry of free nations and the subjects of the kingdom of heaven. All these must come mostly from the home; they will fully come from nowhere else. To be certain and sure of their effects, they must be engendered in the forefathers of those who would enjoy them.* Professor Marie Leonard, Dean of Women, University of Illinois, has written of this subject: The spiritual interpretation of life, love and God must come from the home and parents where, by every word and deed, Christian principles of honor, integrity, the fine rights of others, the protection that comes from law enforcement, and honorable dealings with all men are indelibly impressed on the growing, impressionable minds of our children.? Parental Responsibility. To Latter-day Saint parents the Lord has said that if they are delinquent in teaching the Gospel to their children the sins of those neglected ones will be "upon the heads of the parents." Parents are partners with God in the merciful mission of bringing salvation and happiness to others. Most Latter-day Saint parents have been workers in some of the auxiliary organizations of the Church, many have been on missions, while almost all of them are in a position to give religious instruction to their children and to conduct family prayer and other devotional activities in the home. Perhaps no other church has such a great percentage of its members who are in a position to render this great service in the home. ?The Deseret News (Church Section), April 15, 1939, "The Home?Fundamental to our Civic and Religious Life." ?The American Citizen, May, 1940, p. 7. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940

 Since the fathers are away from the family so much of the time, this important duty rests especially with the mothers. They must assume this responsibility and share the golden opportunity which those tender years afford. Participation in religious activities in the home is the most powerful agency in existence for promoting family solidarity. The school, employment, and all other factors tend to separate the members of the family; while religion remains a bulwark of strength in unifying the family in a common cause and in strengthening the bonds of domestic relationship. Where parents are willing to assume the responsibility of religious instruction, they find at their disposal a fortress of strength which is invaluable in the character development of their children. The Church encourages a variety of activities which naturally tend to unite the family. Such activities as family prayer and other devotional exercises in the home, the teaching of respect for authority?both secular and ecclesiastical, fasting, tithing, the Word of Wisdom, the family going as a unit to meetings and other functions of the Church strengthen the family ties and integrate the group as no other force can do. A greater family solidarity is engendered when people marry members of their own church, who, consequently, have the same religious beliefs. The task of rearing children in such a home, where religious unity prevails, is rendered easier than in homes where the parents are divided in religious convictions.