Special Activities Sponsored by Stake Relief Societies North Weber Stake (Ogden, Utah) The work-and-business department of the North Weber Stake sponsored a twelve-week course in sewing in 1939, with the laudable objectives of training homemakers and aiding the Church welfare program by providing gainful occupation for women needing work. The sewing school was held at the Ogden regional storehouse and attended regularly by representatives from all the fourteen wards of the stake. At the conclusion of the course, these representatives gave the instruction to Relief Society members in their respective wards. Here expert instruction was given in sewing for family needs. The simplest stitches were studied first, followed later by a course in dressmaking and tailored finishes. Remaking of children's clothing was one of the specialties of this school. Neat in appearance and reflecting the latest trends in style, these articles ranged from tiny undies to fine coats and suits to delight their little INSTRUCTORS AT SEWING PROJECT, NORTH WEBER STAKE Left to right, Loretta Wright, Mary Wright, Jessie Snarr FLOWER EXHIBIT, SALINA FIRST WARD, NORTH SEVIER STAKE wearers. Instructors at the sewing project are shown in the accompanying picture which was taken at a stake bazaar and handiwork exhibit held in May, 1939. On this occasion, a sale of home-baked foods and articles of sewing netted the association more than $100. Julia E. Parry, who was president of North Weber Stake Relief Society at the time of this exhibit and bazaar, later resigned, and Nellie W. Neal was appointed president on September 30, 1939. North Sevier Stake (Salina, Utah) The Relief Society of North Sevier Stake, of which Melissa M. Crane is president, sponsors an annual flower festival which has proved to be one of its most interesting activities. Not only do the women of the various wards in the stake strive to beautify their homes and gardens with lovely flowers during the summer months, but through careful selection and a study of plant life, they try to cultivate plants of a superior type, and to add new varieties. Artistic arrangement is also one of their objectives. In 1939, the flower festival was held in each ward in connection with the annual ward Relief Society conference?a combination which added interest to both activities. The flowers were brought to the ward chapel on the morning of the conference Sunday, where they were arranged by the women, and remained on display throughout the day. The accompanying picture is of the 1939 display of the Salina First Ward. Star Valley Stake (Afton, Wyo.) As early as February, 1940, Lucille Call, secretary, wrote that the 480 Star Valley Stake Relief Society is sponsoring a beautification program, with President Arvilla J. Hyer as chairman. All the civic and governmental organizations and church groups are cooperating in this enterprise. A survey was made in each ward early in the year, with ward welfare groups and Relief Society participating in the survey. In the fall of 1940, a follow-up survey will be made and a prize awarded to the ward making the greatest progress. The work directors in each ward are on the ward beautification committee, which has the two-fold purpose of providing work for those in need, and improving the appearance of the homes and churches. The aim of 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940

 this stake is, "A more beautiful Star Valley for 1940." Los Angeles Stake (California) The Los Angeles Stake Relief Society presented a spring fashion show and musicale on the afternoon of February 19, 1940. The large audience which attended acclaimed it as an exceptionally fine entertainment. The fashion show was elaborate and comprehensive, revealing the latest trends in the realm of fashion, as well as the fashions of yester-year. Refreshments were served and a delightful musicale was presented. Mary S. Jordan is president of this stake Relief Society. HOME OF PIONEERS Lydia Hall It is so small, so very small, This home of pioneers, That stood so long against the storms And temperament of years. It is so rude no one would guess That it is paved with dreams, That love and life and death have walked Beneath its sagging beams; That it has cradled great ideals, That time has hallowed it, That in its lowly rooms the lamp Of liberty was lit. Theology and Testimony DEPARTMENT The Restored Gospel Dispensation ?Introduction (Tuesday, October 8) The Christian Church at the Close of the First Century. At the close of the first century of the Christian era, the organization, teachings and ceremonial practices of the Christian Church were essentially as they had been instituted by the original apostles. Christianity had severed its ties with Judaism and had become a populous religious movement in the Roman Empire. Lacking official church historians, no detailed records or contemporary histories were preserved. However, from the writings of the period, both religious and profane, we are able to learn some things concerning the church. The apostles had ceased to function in the leadership of the church, and the right of general church leadership was not vested in any one city or individual. Local lay members?bishops, elders, deacons, etc.?were directing the religious and temporal life of their congregations. Clement and Ignatius, two of the earliest "Apostolic Fathers," writing in this period, indicate that the doctrines of common consent ruled the church, and that all church leaders, after being selected by the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, were presented to their congregations for a sustaining vote. The congregation also exercised the right to remove unworthy officials from ecclesiastical positions. All lay members of the church were eligible to bear the priesthood. The church was an illicit religion, and its services were unostentatious, consisting of prayers, the singing of psalms and hymns, exhortations, the reading of Scripture, the administration of the sacrament, and the making of offerings for the needy poor. At this period the church had adopted the Old Testament as its own but had not yet elevated our New Testament to a position of Scripture, although practically all of our present-day New Testament books were known, read and quoted by church people. Christianity was still a spirit-guided movement, lacking formal creeds and declarations of faith. Competitors of Christianity. Christianity was a missionary religion; and in its proselyting activities in the Graeco-Roman world, it found itself in competition with numerous pagan religions and Greek philosophical systems. Through elaborate initiatory rites, consisting of pageantry, pilgrimages, fastings, banquets, sacrificial meals and secret instructions, people were inducted into the mysteries that they believed would gain immortality for them. With the passing of the centuries, Christianity triumphed over 482 all of its pagan contemporaries, but not, however, until it had adopted from these cults their ritual, ceremonial dress, superstitions and adornments, as well as many of their doctrines, and thus had become an apostate church, highly impregnated with paganism. Defenders of the Apostolic Faith. During these trying years when the simplicity of the pristine Gospel was being threatened with change, there arose many valiant Christians who protested against the innovations. Foremost among these "Fathers" were Irenaeus (120- 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940

 200 A. D.), Bishop of Lyons, and Tertullian (160-230 A. D.), Bishop of Carthage. They insisted that only those doctrines and practices capable of being proved to have been taught or sanctioned by the apostles of the Lord, could and should be recognized as valid and divine. All else was to have no place in Christianity. But in spite of the warnings of some of these clear-visioned Christians that the changing practices and teachings were taking the church toward apostasy, there was no turning back to the original forms of apostolic times. Lesson 1 Apostasy and Reformation The Days of Darkness and Preparation "Preach the word.... For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine; but after their own lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers, having itching ears; And they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables (II Timothy 4:2-4). The Status of the Christian Church in the Roman Empire. During the first two centuries, the Christian Church existed in the Roman Empire as an illicit religion, subjected to repeated waves of persecution. In 311 A. D. The Emperor Galerius, who had been one of the most vigorous persecutors of Christianity, issued an edict of toleration for the followers of Christ, believing their prayers might aid his unstable empire. Under Constantine, the sincerity of whose conversion is questionable, Christianity was given state aid and favored above other religions. It was not, however, until 392 that Theodosius decreed that Christianity was the religion of the Roman Empire and ordered all other religions abolished. Under state patronage the church grew into a powerful institution, its leaders often being honored with positions in the government. The disintegration of the Empire in the fourth and fifth centuries resulted in disorder in the social, economic and political life of Western Europe. The church, with its accumulated wealth and control over the populace, was the only force in society able to step to the front and maintain a semblance of order. The result was that with the passing of the centuries the temporal power of the church increased and in time came to control not only the religious life of Western Europe but also the political rulers of the various western Christian nations as well.