The Priesthood members think he is a wonderful teacher; and he keeps up so well, that he will know a great deal about the subject." So it came about a few nights later when work was finished, Carolyn put her books on the table where Turner was working on his accounts. "Turner." Some quality in her voice made him raise his head quickly. He looked questioningly from her to the books and back again. "Well?" He did not make the approach easy for her. "I have been asked to give a lesson, and I do not know how." "Well?" he asked again. "Will you help me?" "Why not Bob? I am busy." But there was none of his hard, cutting sarcasm. "I would rather you would." With a great show of deliberation he reached for her magazine. She handed it to him. Sitting at the table beside him, she explained about the time to be used and the usual procedure. "Let me read it over," he suggested, "then we can discuss it." Flushed and pleased, she raised her head and met Bob's eyes. They 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940

 were puzzled, but while he looked at her a light leaped into his own. When she went to the kitchen to set bread, he followed. "Atta girl, Mother," he said, putting an arm over her shoulder. "You will win." "I didn't think you had noticed. Does it mean anything to you?" A white line came about his mouth. "It means just about everything to me. How could I help but notice?" "Have I been so different?" "You feel different. That puts new spirit into all of us ? even Dad, though he won't acknowledge it." "Do you suppose he realizes what I am trying to do? He doesn't seem to." "He would take good care that you shouldn't find it out if he did, but he will break down in time." He turned toward the outside. She noticed the droop of his shoulders. "Robert." "Yes." He turned, with one hand on the door knob. "I am not as strong nor as capable as you." His brow wrinkled, then his mouth twisted in a wry smile. "She refuses to go with me, Mother." "So does Dad. She does that because of the dance. Have you persisted?" "No. I haven't the heart. If I just knew it wasn't the other fellow! I did a shabby trick that night." "Yes. After paying special attention to her and giving every indication of special interest, you turned and asked Lucile for the dance. June's pride was hurt." He thought, "She even went on that ride with me, and still I ignored CATHEDRAL OF PEACE it." For a moment longer he considered, then his head went up. "I can fight, now. I feel as if I had some reason for it." Back in the dining room, Turner motioned to her. "Sit down," he said, "and we will go over your material." She took a chair near him. He seemed reluctant to start. At length he spoke. "I suppose you realize this lesson covers personal ground." She nodded. "You still want me to help?" Again she nodded. "Then we will do our best. Tell me, what particular thing do you want to stress? That is, what shall you use as an objective?"