For one brief moment he doubted, then the thought of his mother brought reassurance. He could do whatever he wanted to do. "Hello, Bob," June called gaily, but with no intimacy. "Wait a moment." He was struggling with his skis. "Come on, Ju-une," Joe called from below. In her bright plaid jacket and fur hood the girl made a sharp contrast to those who were dressed in haphazard costumes. To her credit, none seemed to notice. Cupping her hands, she called, "Wait a minute." Crowding her to one side, Joe's sister and Ben Dunn swept down the trail. The slope was not too high, the snow not too good, but they were enjoying every minute of the evening. As Bob stood up after fastening his skis, he noticed a cloud bank in the west. The weather had moderated slightly, too, or his climb up had warmed him. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940

 "Ready?" she asked. "Ready." Away they went, the cold air stinging their faces and whipping the blood through their veins. As they reached the foot of the hill, they circled in opposite directions and came back facing each other. Their skis struck, and June was thrown slightly off balance. Joe rushed to catch her, but there was no need. With one movement of his long arm, Bob had caught and steadied her. "Thanks," she laughed, shaking the wind from her face. "Want to go up again?" he asked quietly. "We are all going up again." Joe reached for her hand. "I am taking her up." A half dozen more of the group were down and were laughing and rushing about. When they began the ascent, Joe went with them. He was not deceived. He knew he was only a friend. He did not like it, but there was nothing he could do about it. "What has that guy got that the rest of us haven't?" he muttered to himself, but was honest enough to admit he had something. "Hi, Lucile," he called, "wait for me." After they had rested long enough for the others to get a good start, Bob shouldered his own and June's skis. "Shall we start?" She looked up the slope. "I couldn't go up the way you did." "We will go around. The long way is the best for us tonight." June's pulse quickened. Affecting indifference, she asked, "How did you happen to come tonight? We CATHEDRAL OF PEACE have tried all winter to get you out." "You know why I haven't been out." "You mean you were sulking because I turned you down?" It was rude, but she couldn't help saying it. He had such a sense of his own importance, and yet at times he had none at all. "No, there just wasn't any reason why I should go." "Then why bother to come tonight?" she asked tartly. "It wasn't a bother. I decided." "Decided to come? It is time. I dislike men who are too busy to live." "That wasn't what I decided." She was suddenly impatient to go. "Let's catch the others." "No." He caught her back as she would have hurried after the others. They walked in silence?a comfortable silence for Bob. Just to be with her gave him that feeling.