His voice had trailed off; and Nancy, sitting in the cool twilight of the big porch, had been able to imagine the woebegone expression of his freckled face. "Why are they making such a fuss?" she had asked. "Oh, Moms! Don't you know? The President of the United States is coming to town. He will be riding down the street in an automobile. The big flag will march along ahead of him, and then we'll stop at the park and watch him go by. We move, Moms, and it looks like the flag waves. Oh, it's beautiful! Miss Nelson wants Rosemary to be part of a star. Gosh, Moms, the President of the United States will see us!" So she had said, as casually as she could, "Well, if you want to be in the flag, Donny, you may. I think...." But he had smothered her thoughts in his kisses. BLESSED EVENT So she had made the white cape and cap for Rosemary to wear as a tiny point of a white star and the red cape and cap for Donny to wear as the tip end of one red stripe. She hadn't realized until later that Donny had the enviable rank, the military distinction, of being a sergeant. When they had come home tired and dusty after a hot afternoon of marching, her heart had misgiven her; she had come very close to rescinding her permission. But Terry had been firm: "You can't do that to the kids, Nance! You promised them, and you've got to stay with it." "I only hope they don't faint or get a sunstroke or something like that," Nancy was worrying now. "Rosemary has the nosebleed when she gets too hot. Oh, dear, what if she gets sick over this silly thing? And it is silly! What does the President care about a living flag—a bunch of tired, sweaty little children dressed up in cheap bunting? He wouldn't walk a block in the heat, not he! He rides in an automobile, and the little kids walk. And they think it's so marvelous. You'd think he was a king. This is a democratic country, and I think we should treat the President just the same as we do any other citizen. That's all he is, after all." Arriving at the park, where Donny had told her, carefully, would be the best place to stand, Nancy looked about for a shady spot from which to watch the parade. Under a cluster of trees, a small stand had been put up for the mothers of the children. As Nancy stood undecided where to go, Mrs. Finklestein saw her. 449 "Yoho, dere, Mrs. Arnold!" she cried in her deep, rich voice. "Come up here mit. Move over, Mrs. Rinetti, giff room. Ach, it iss hot, nicht wahr?" Mrs. Rinetti hitched her fat bulk a little closer to Mrs. Olsen as she nodded her black head, over which a red, white and blue handkerchief was knotted. "I say to my Carlotta, 'It iss too hot today to marcha in da parade'; but Carlotta, she say, 'No, I musta marcha. I am de beega girl to keepa de leetla ones in line.' " "Ya, I know," Mrs. Tueller nodded. "Frederick, now, he iss sergeant!" Nancy, grateful as she was for the shade, nevertheless wished she could have a little more privacy. But Mrs.