They were the chief comforters of the severest sufferers, the kind nurses who gave them in sickness those dear attentions with which pauperism is hardly poor and which the greatest wealth often fails to buy. And they were a nation of wonderful managers. They could hardly be called housewives in etymological strictness, but 433 it was plain that they had once been such, and most distinguished ones. Their art availed them in their changed affairs. With almost their entire culinary material limited to the milk of their cows, some store of meal or flour and a very few condiments, they brought their thousand and one recipes into play with a success that outdid for their families the miracle of the Hebrew widow's cruise. They learned to make butter on a march, by the dashing of the wagon, and so nicely to calculate the working of barm in the jolting heat that as soon after the halt as an oven could be dug and heated, their wellkneaded loaf was ready for baking. "But the first duty of the Mormon women was, through all changes of place and fortune, to keep alive the altar fires of homes. | Whatever their manifold labors of the day, it was their effort to complete them against the sacred hour of evening fall. For by that time, all out-workers, scouts, ferrymen or bridgemen, roadmakers, herdsmen or haymakers had finished their tasks and had come in for their rest. And before the last smoke of the supper fire curled up, reddening in glow of sunset, a hundred chimes of cattle bells announced their looked-for approach across the open hills, and the women went out to meet them at the camp gates. With their children in their laps, they sat by them at the cherished family meal and talked over the events of the well-spent day. "But every day closed as every day began, with an invocation of the Divine favor, without which, indeed, no Mormon seemed to dare to lay him down to rest. With the first shining of the stars, laughter and THE OLD SOCIAL HALL loud talking hushed, the neighbor went his way, you heard the last hymn sung, and then the thousand voiced murmur of prayer was heard like babbling water falling down a hill.... "\.. I have spoken to you of a people whose industry had made them rich and gathered around them all the comforts and not a few of the luxuries of refined life; expelled by lawless force into the wilderness; seeking an untried home far away from scenes which their previous life had endeared to them; moving onward, destitute, hunger-sickened and sinking with disease, bearing along with them their wives and children, the aged, the poor, and the decrepit; renewing daily on their march the offices of devotion, the ties of family and friendship and charity; sharing necessities, and braving dangers together, cheerful in the midst of want and trial, and persevering until they triumphed." Such were our Pioneers! This was the spirit of Come, Come Ye Saints! No people were ever led by a loftier ideal, or sustained by a more sublime faith. They had learned two great lessons in this school of experience, that of self-help, and of giving help to others and receiving it in turn. There was no place for loafers or parasites in this new land, but there were homes for men and women who were willing to work for what they received. Persistent physical labor was the lot of every able-bodied person, and their labors filled every hour of daylight. They believed in divine guidance, and they trusted their lives and fortunes to the direction of those in whom they had full confidence. The element of real and common danger was a powerful bond among the Pioneers as they settled throughout Utah with a strong unity of purpose. As the land was dotted with cabins and cleared fields, the church and schoolhouse arose, along with the first poor dwellings. We might say in the THE CULTURE OF THE PIONEERS words of Daniel Webster: "Who could wish his country's beginning otherwise?" It is said that the three pillars of American democracy are found in the church, the schoolhouse and the town hall. Certain it is, the West preserved in its institutions the spirit of real, old Americanism after other sections had lost much of it. The three channels through which Utah pioneer life flowed were religion, education and government. Their religion was the vital and directing force of their lives, deeply affecting the conscious and subconscious currents of character and action. Religion and social behavior can not be separated. If one believes himself to be a son or daughter of God, the brotherhood of man is a natural conclusion, and brings with it a new aspect of human dignity and liberal thought. The religious ideal of our Pioneers was to create a society where it was possible for all to live better lives. The Gospel of Jesus Christ in its purity and fullness, as revealed through the Prophet Joseph Smith, was for them the highest requisite for human service, for self-improvement and for social reconstruction. Every principle uttered or practiced by Christ had its practical application to everyday life, and He is the supreme authority on standards of conduct. It was Dr. Frederick B. Fisher who said: "Earth's bravest knight and truest gentleman was Jesus Christ of Nazareth." He was the unfailing refuge and source of strength to our first settlers when all else seemed to fail. Education was recognized as a fundamental need by Utah's founders, for they knew that the roots of education are in the heart as well as the head. Beginning with the first school opened in Salt Lake shortly after the arrival of the people, Levi Edgar Young has preserved a fascinating story of Utah's educational history. In February, 1850, the University of Deseret (now Utah) was chartered. The history of the Church THE OLD SALT LAKE THEATRE IN EARLY DAYS 436 schools, headed by the Brigham Young University in Provo, is a thrilling story in itself and bears witness to the fact that Utah Pioneers were from the earliest beginnings staunch friends of education, which should be free from prejudice and free for all. The missionary movement, while a Church activity, has been a great educational force. The ideal of government was that all should participate in directing the policies; that it should be shared by all, and that equal justice to everyone should be administered. Every family was urged to own its own home, and this policy always tends to stabilize citizens. Freedom of opportunity was the gift of the frontier, and it meant individual rise and social progress, which came readily into the pioneer mind. It was a period of unusual equality, a democracy of fact, born of the country and life itself. A new set of values was developed when the emphasis was founded upon personal strength, courage and endurance. The patriotism of the Pioneers to the United States is a glowing chapter in their history. Through the person of their great leader, Brigham Young, they voiced their feelings upon many occasions: "We feel the injuries that we have sustained, and are not insensible of the wrongs we have suffered; still we are Americans." The story of the Mormon Battalion, the unfurling of the Stars and Stripes on Ensign Peak, the first telegram to go over the completed line, October, 1861, sent by Brigham Young to the president of the Telegraph Company, were but a few of the evidences of the loyalty of  

 Pioneers. This message contained the following statement: "Utah has not seceded, but is firm for the Constitution and the laws of our once happy country." To be an American was, to them, more than being a mere native of America. It represented a calling or civilization that had in it something of a challenge and an ideal for the oppressed of all the world. The hardships of pioneer life took their greatest toll from the women and children. Men did the heavier work, ran the outdoor risks and defended the homes against Indians, but woman risked the greater dangers. To the interminable labor in the frontier home, when she was cook, seamstress, teacher, and doctor, was added the bearing and rearing of children. The experiences of the women developed self-confidence, but they never lost the finer touch. Many were poets and writers of no mean talent, and some of the few first graduate physicians of the West were our Pioneer women. The Woman's Exponent, founded in 1872, was a pioneer paper devoted to the advancement of women; and Utah's daughters took their place by the side of the most distinguished women of America in the greatest social movement of the last century. Pioneer life is always hard, as the first call for necessities must be met; but Brigham Young sensed the need for proper amusements and recreation. These were always of an uplifting character and coupled with education. The auxiliary organizations of the Church were the medium through which much pleasure was offered. The Social Hall, built in 1852, was the first recreation hall for our Pioneers. We are indebted THE CULTURE OF THE PIONEERS to George D. Pyper for The Romance of an Old Playhouse, the delightful story of the Salt Lake Theatre, opened to the public in March, 1862. Home talent of a very high order and some of the greatest actors of the world graced the boards of this theatre in pioneer days. Music has always played a very important part in the life of our people. Every little community had its choir, its band, and home-town talent. In the field of music as well as drama, we are grateful to George D. Pyper for preserving the story of our Pioneers. Hymns, orchestras, bands, and musicians made a rich contribution to life in the early days in Utah. 437 The majesty of our natural scenery is a challenge to artists, and our state has had its share. It is interesting to note that the statues of Paul Revere on Boston Common and Massasoit at Plymouth Rock are the work of a son of Utah Pioneers. When the complete epic of our state is written, it will show a great contribution emanating from our Pioneers to music, painting, sculpture, literature, drama and all that goes to make up a wonderful culture. But far above this is the inspiration of their example and the achievement which they made in the art of right living, which is, after all, the finest of the fine arts. He MY MOTHER Christie Lund Coles She was no pioneer, she did not share The companionship, and singing of the plains; She did not know the sustenance of prayer Offered about a campfire; there remains No marker where she passed for all she wrought. My mother came, an emigrant, alone, A stranger in an alien land; she brought Only her faith to bridge the great unknown. Her courage and that of many of her kind Has gone unsung; and yet I sing it now. I shed a tear for loved ones left behind, For all she sacrificed and bore; I bow My head in reverence for the dream she caught, For my own faith through her so dearly bought. Preserving the Memories of Pioneer Days John D. Giles (Executive Secretary of Utah Pioneer Trails and Landmarks Association ) The Pioneer period is now far enough in the past to bring into relief the real accomplishments and achievements of those sturdy souls who sacrificed everything they possessed—many of them life itself—that the Church might be established and the Gospel preached as planned in the inauguration of the last dispensation. The approach of the centennial of Utah's founding, the frequent occurrence, since 1929 particularly, of centennial anniversaries of important events in Church history and the fulfilment of many of the prophecies regarding the progress of the Church and its members, give interest to the westward movement of the Pioneers, which paralleled some historic