NOTES TO THE FIELD Relief Society Annual Stake Conferences "Notes to the Field," published in the Relief Society Magazine for February, 1940, page 113, announced the new policy of holding annual stake conferences of the auxiliary organizations in conjunction with stake union meetings rather than with stake quarterly conferences as formerly. These auxiliary conferences are not to be held in the month in which the regular quarterly stake conference occurs. Annual Conference in Lieu of Union Meeting It has not been possible to schedule the conferences in all stakes on the usual day of the union meeting, but it is planned that the conference in the month in which it is held will replace the union meeting for that month. In those stakes where the auxiliaries hold union meetings conjointly, those auxiliaries for which a conference is not scheduled may forego their union meeting for the month in which one of the auxiliaries has an annual conference. Both the Relief Society and the Mutual Improvement Association will be holding annual stake conferences for their respective groups during the second half of this year. Therefore, in those stakes which hold conjoint union meetings, the union meeting for all the auxiliaries may be dispensed with for the month in which either the Relief Society or the Mutual Improvement Association has scheduled an annual conference in the stake. Accordingly, the separate stake conferences of these two auxiliaries have been scheduled either for different times in the same month, or with an intervening month between them, so that the union meeting will not be replaced in two consecutive months by a stake auxiliary conference. However, inasmuch as some of the stake conferences are necessarily scheduled during the month of September when stakes may especially desire to hold union meetings preparatory to the beginning of regular Relief Society weekly meetings on October 8, such necessary preparation meeting may, of course, be held. Presented herewith is a schedule of the tentative dates of the annual stake Relief Society conferences which also indicates which stakes are to meet separately, and which are to be combined with another stake. One-Stake and Two-Stake Conferences The Relief Society annual stake conferences are planned for a combination of two adjoining stakes in those instances where it is feasible and convenient for them to meet together. According to the present schedule, there will be 43 one-stake conferences and 43 two-stake conferences, a total of 86 conferences reaching 129 stakes of the Church ?all but Oahu in Hawaii to which the Relief Society will send no representative of the General Board this year. Nearly all of the conferences are scheduled to be held on a Sunday, but a few week-day con- NOTES TO THE FIELD 467 [Schedule of conference dates follows with detailed listing of stakes and dates] The Conference Program The Relief Society conference is to consist of four separate meetings, all scheduled to be held on the same day. The proposed tentative program, as it is arranged for one-stake conferences, appears on page 469. In adapting this schedule of meetings to those conferences where two stakes are represented, the executive officers of the stake in which the conference is held will meet with the representative of the General Board at 9:00 a. m., the executive officers of the visiting stake will enter the meeting at 9:30, the executive officers of the home stake will be dismissed at 9:45 a. m., and the officers of the visiting stake will remain in session with the General Board representative until 10:15. This plan allows the executive officers of each stake one-half hour with the General Board member in which to discuss their individual stake problems, and fifteen minutes when officers from both stakes are in conjoint session for the discussion of common problems. Other adaptations of the program are necessary in those instances where two stakes are combined for one conference and in those instances where a week-day conference is scheduled. These changes will be conveyed by letter to the stakes concerned. Stake and ward officers will please note that no general session for all Relief Society members is planned as a part of these stake conferences. The elimination of a general session, and the restriction of the conference meetings to one day are in keeping with the desire of the General Authorities of the Church that auxiliary work be simplified wherever it is possible to do so, Furthermore, it is the policy of the General Board to work directly with stake boards, who, in turn, work with the local Societies. Accordingly, the representative of the General Board who attends the Relief Society annual stake conference will discuss the various phases of Relief Society work with 469 the stake executive officers and board, but the two afternoon sessions of the conference will be extended to include, respectively, ward executive officers and class leaders and ward executive officers and bishops. [Detailed program outline follows] Interest on Relief Society Wheat Trust Fund The Presiding Bishop's Office, which holds in trust the wheat fund owned by the Relief Society in hundreds of wards and by some of the stakes, is making the annual interest payment on this fund on July 1, 1940. This interest is paid by means of check for all amounts of fifty cents or more; amounts of less than fifty cents will be mailed direct to Relief Society presidents in the form of postage stamps. The checks are drawn in favor of the Relief Societies who have ownership in the fund, but are mailed to the bishops of the wards for ward Relief Societies, and to the stake president for stake Relief Societies. All Relief Society presidents whose organizations have ownership in this fund are requested to obtain the checks from their respective bishops at once. It is requested that these checks be cashed immediately, and that the endorsement on the reverse of the check be in the name of the Society followed by the name of the Relief Society president. All interest payments, whether received in the form of check or postage stamps, are to be entered in the Relief Society record books as interest received on wheat trust fund. Relief Society officers will note that the amount of interest received this year (1940) is slightly lower than the amount received in 1939. The lower amount is due to the conversion of part of the trust fund into wheat for storage and to reduction of the interest rate on the remaining trust fund to four per cent. It is probable that further amounts will also be reinvested in wheat in the future. Therefore, inasmuch as interest is not paid on the amount which is in the form of wheat, the Societies having ownership in the fund may expect an even lower amount of interest next year for maternity and health work. The Relief Society is appreciative of the wise handling of the wheat trust fund by the Presiding Bishopric which has made it possible for the various local Societies who own an interest in the fund to receive returns in interest at the comparatively high rate which has been allowed during the past years, especially when it is realized that interest rates paid by banks have dwindled materially during this period. Support of Red Cross Calls by the Relief Society The General Board of Relief Society and several of the stake boards and ward Relief Societies have been approached by the local Red Cross chapters with the request that they collect funds through the organization in response to the call by the Red Cross for war relief funds, and with the request that Relief Society meetings be devoted to sewing for the Red Cross. As stated in the Official Instructions of President Amy Brown Lyman, at the general conference of Relief Society, April 3, 1940, and published in the Relief Society Magazine for May, 1940, page 300, "The policy of the General Board is for the Relief Society NOTES TO THE FIELD to conserve its energy, strength, and funds for its own maintenance and special work and that the Society should not be used to promote the work of other organizations or of individuals. This statement does not apply to Relief Society women as individuals?they are, of course, free to take up any work they see fit. There is no objection, however, to the Relief Society cooperating with other agencies in community betterment programs or social action, but it is advised that the organization maintain its own identity in all such cooperative work." Accordingly, the policy of the General Board, approved by the First Presidency, with respect to Red Cross calls for funds is to give publicity to them and to encourage members of the Relief Society to respond to such calls, as individuals. This means that the Relief Society would not be used as an agency for the actual collection of funds. With respect to sewing in Relief Society meetings for the Red Cross, the present attitude of the Board is that the Relief Society might sew for the 471 Red Cross at the regular monthly work meeting, provided the Society has no sewing to do for the Church welfare program, or for the needs of dependent families under the care of the bishop or ward Relief Society. Relief Society women are encouraged to respond as individuals to appeals made by the Red Cross for women to sew, either in their own homes or at sewing centers established by the Red Cross. The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints is whole-heartedly in accord with the worthy purposes of the Red Cross. Recently, in making a substantial contribution to the Red Cross campaign for war relief funds in the name of the Church, the First Presidency stated, "We are happy to make this contribution for alleviating, so far as may be, the suffering of those who have been forced to flee for their lives from devastated areas with the loss not only of all they possess, but of home, friends and kindred. We particularly urge the members of the Church to give to the fullest extent of their ability for this purpose." Social Service Lesson Titles 1940-41 Following are the titles of the lessons to be presented in the Social Service department for the year 1940-41. Inasmuch as Christmas occurs during the fourth week in December, no Social Service lesson is planned for this month. 1. The Influence of Religion in the Home 2. Do Our Neighbors Like Us? 3. Long-Time Vision of Family Life 4. Am I a Housekeeper or a Homemaker? 5. Family Life on Twenty-four Hours a Day 6. Aesthetic Values in Family Living 7. Home Owning or Home Renting? Cathedral of Peace Dorothy Clapp Robinson CHAPTER NINE The winter came on, and in its inevitable way brought changes and developments. At the beginning, the loss of cattle that had begun in Turner's pasture spread. The Elkhorn lost four, and the three ranches on South Fork suffered losses. Turner was the only one who lost anything but calves. The winter was comparatively open, and cars could still be used. There were suspicions, voiced and unvoiced. Bob made several trips to the Cross Line. Once Carolyn went but returned alone. When they knew certainly that Carson was not going to relent and go to school, Bob also gave up the idea. He enrolled for extension courses in animal husbandry. It became easy to talk to his father about it, for Turner reached out to Bob for companionship. He offered the money. While Bob would never have admitted it, his decision to not press the matter of going away was influenced by another happening. On the Relief Society's first Work Day, he had driven to the ward house to bring his mother home. To his surprise, Mrs. Straughn came out and asked if she might ride home with them. Hiding his eagerness, he said: "I'd be delighted." He got out and opened the door for her, while she went for her things. "The men were busy today," she explained, as they started away, "and June took my car to town on an errand for her father. She brought me over, but I told her I thought I could ride home with you." "You will miss her dreadfully when she goes to school," Carolyn sympathized, thinking of the many ways a grown girl can help. "She isn't going," Mrs. Straughn answered. "I feel dreadful about it, but I must have help. A winter at home will help both of us though, especially if she decides to get married." "Oh!" Carolyn expelled the word in sudden alarm, "Is she getting married?" "We don't know. She has been going with a young man for a long time. He graduated last spring and has a good position; so there is no reason for their not getting married, if she is in love with him. But she doesn't say." Bob stepped on the gas. The flame of the shrubs on the hillside was no brighter than the one that lighted his heart. The tang of the fall air was instantly more heady. She was going to be here all winter! By spring, who could tell? Since that long night when Carolyn had lain listening, listening lest Turner walk out of the house and out of her life forever, she had changed many of her ideas. She knew now that she had expected the impossible. She had expected a love to survive when its every expression was denied. She had expected Turner, with all his expanding power, CATHEDRAL OF PEACE to cling to the level upon which she had chosen to live. That he was ripe for some other woman to snatch she also knew, and she grew cold with fear at the knowledge. The night that Carson had left she had found that Turner could not be coaxed suddenly into a state of companionship. She first must have something to contribute that would invite companionship. She would have to build up little by little that which she had so callously let die. The realization had come to her that night that clothes do not make the inner woman; they are merely an expression of her, her approach to friendship and social intercourse. She was thankful now that she had accepted responsibility in the Relief Society. It was a wedge with which to open a new life. It was a ladder up which she could climb to a new self-esteem. Kane had said she was stubborn. She was, and now she was using that quality to remedy conditions. It was surprising how many avenues opened to help her. The little progress she made with Turner, however, was heartbreaking. There were times when the bother, the struggle and heartbreak were almost too great a price to pay. Turner resisted every advance coldly, often rudely; but she refused to quit. She did not go to the grove any more, although its cold, stark, winter beauty had always fascinated her. She knew nothing of psychology, but she sensed that keeping away from the old situation would be the first step in creating a new one. She joined the Parent-Teacher Association, and to her surprise found that she was really interested. She studied 473 her Relief Society lessons avidly, the more so because they were hard for her?extremely hard at first. She not only had to learn, but she had to train herself to study. Turner had always studied. He was constantly being asked to give service which required study. This fact helped her when otherwise she would have become discouraged and given up. She had never been a scholar as he was, and the little inclination she had had originally was long since dead of inactivity. It was hard to bring it back to life. But step by step she restored it, until her desire to learn became strong. Talking of doing better, or promising, would have had no weight with Turner. One evening when Dennis was preparing a lesson in English Literature, he asked Bob for help. Bob was busy. Turner took no notice, so Carolyn hesitantly offered. Once she would have shied from offering. Now, to her own surprise as well as his, she was able to help clear his problem. When she arose from the table, she noticed Turner watching her intently. He quickly averted his gaze. The Relief Society Magazine she read from cover to cover. The magazines she had read on rare occasions had interested her very little. The people in them were too far removed from her; they were like creatures from another life. In this little magazine she met her own, and in meeting them found courage. She studied the lessons each week but would never volunteer to take part in the discussion. Once, quite by accident, she was called on. Her answer was slow, faltering, but worth listening to. After 474 that she was often asked to express an opinion. It was not surprising, then, that in January she was asked to give the lesson on emotions. "Oh, I couldn't," was her first startled reaction. "I am sure you can," the far-sighted Mrs. Straughn answered. "Anyone as eager to learn as you are can do anything." "But how would I give it?" "If you feel you need help, why not ask your husband?