There probably has never been a time in the history of the world when the prayers of the righteous were more needed, and there has never been a time when humanity more needed to pray. That evil is rampant in the world, none can gainsay. Its influences are so strong and its impacts so powerful that resistance requires fortitude and stamina to a pronounced degree. Things which are "not good for man" are not only allowed but are actually encouraged. Liberty has in too many instances become license. A spirit of recklessness characterizes our time, and an attitude of "what's the use?" prevails. A powerful restraining influence is needed in today's world. We need to pray, our children need to pray, that we may constantly be reminded that a Supreme Father rules over all, that life has purpose EDITORIAL and direction; "that like David of old we may feel and know that there is no spot so dark and no place so far removed that the all-seeing eye of God is not upon us, and that we will be held accountable for our deeds." There is no finer, no more wholesome, no more powerful restraining influence than an unwavering belief in God, a God who is continually watching over us. Our belief in God becomes strong through prayer. In today's world we are sorely in need of the comforting and sustaining influence of prayer. The destructive forces of war are laying low the mighty nations of the earth; distress is all about us; the very foundations of our social order seem to be shifting. Mankind feels insecure, wondering what the future holds. When the conflicts of life are greatest, when we realize most our own inadequacies, a belief in God is an unfailing source of comfort and strength. If we will but seek the Father in fervent and humble prayer, a God of understanding and love will 465 sustain us in our trials and inspire and direct us in our onward course. The Lord has said: "All victory and glory is brought to pass unto you through your diligence, faithfulness and prayers of faith" (Doc. & Cov., Sec. 104:36). "Prayer is an expression of faith, and it is by faith, which impels to obedience, that we obtain all our blessings." The Savior commanded His disciples to pray unceasingly and always in His name. He had in mind their welfare. He loved His disciples and was concerned for their well-being. It was prayer that shook the Heavens, turned the key in the lock, and opened up the glories of a new Gospel dispensation?the prayer of a guileless, fourteen-year-old boy. It will be our prayers, our constant petitions, both in the silence of our chambers and as we kneel with our family groups, that will be our anchor of trust and safety in a disturbed world. ADAM BEDE: "God distributes talents to every man according as He sees good. But thee mustna undervalue prayer. Prayer mayna bring money, but it brings us what no money can buy?a power to keep from sin, and be content with God's will, whatever He may please to send. If thee wouldst pray to God to help thee, and trust in His goodness, thee wouldstna be so uneasy about things." ADAM BEDE speaking: "I've seen pretty clear, ever since I was a young 'un, as religion's something else besides notions. It isn't notions sets people doing the right thing?it's feelings.... I found it better for my soul to be humble before the mysteries o' God's dealings, and not be making a clatter about what I could never understand. And they're poor foolish questions after all; for what have we got either inside or outside of us but what comes from God?"