Likewise, with all individuals in need, what your committee proposes to do in each case will determine the kind of secrecy that the committee should exact from its members. Necessarily, the discussion that takes place in a welfare meeting should be kept confidential and sacred to those who attend. The question has been asked as to who should be custodian of the ward file after the survey has been made. It belongs to the bishop of the ward, and as the ward executive he may designate his special secretary or ward clerk, his Relief Society president or ward work director, whichever one seems to have the ability, in order to maintain an accurate record. The employment file should be kept up to date, and there should be information from each committee member as to whether or not there has been any change in the employment record for the past week. After the report has been brought up to date, then it should be found out what projects are available for workers. The person who takes care of this work should see 460 that the work directors are given instructions as to the assignment of workers to projects. If every person who goes from that meeting makes note of what he is to do for the ensuing week, there should be little need for making constant reference to the ward file to obtain information contained there. I should say that the third point of importance in the Relief Society's responsibility in the welfare plan is participation in the distribution of commodities that are produced in the welfare plan. We have been making wonderful strides in production, but up to the present time we have not been able to distribute as well as we have been able to produce. Some time ago we considered what we called "family budgets." There has been a budget suggested by the Relief Society which lists the various kinds and amounts of foodstuffs for an average person for a given period. On this basis, foodstuffs have been distributed. We have also received from the Utah State Agricultural College and the U. S. Department of Agriculture figures giving estimates of amounts of various food products needed for each person. But the unfortunate thing is that the Relief Society distribution budget does not agree with the welfare production budget, or does not take into account the items produced and on hand in the welfare program, with the result that we are producing in some instances far more than the Relief Society budget suggests, and in some instances far less. Can you understand the confusion that will result if you do not inform yourself as to what the storehouse has in stock? Seek to issue orders on the store

 

 house for commodities that are there available for distribution. Without that intelligent understanding, can you see how much wasted food is sure to result? Bishop LeGrand Richards has spoken again of the careful family analysis. That is the fourth point and the prime responsibility of the Relief Society organization—analyzing the family needs and suggesting to the bishop, either by orders on the storehouse or otherwise, the requirements of those people whom they assist. In aiding the needy, every effort must be made to make those whom you assist feel they are not in a separate class. They must not be made to feel that they are a burden that unfortunately must be borne. They must feel that they are brothers and sisters in full fellowship with you; they must be made to forget their misfortunes rather than to have them emphasized; you must consider and treat them as you would treat your own blood brother or sister who might be in distress. When these fall upon misfortune, you do not try to impress upon them that they are not quite up to standard, nor quite your equal. What you do under such circumstances is to try to build them up and make them forget their misfortune. Do so with your Church brethren and sisters. In order that you might get clearly in mind what the Church is doing at the storehouse, 749 West Seventh South, you are advised to avail yourselves of the opportunity of visiting there. I was there this morning, and as familiar as I am with the kind of production program which has been carried out, I was astounded to see the display. Go there, and make a note of the commodities. Your THE CHURCH WELFARE PROGRAM storehouse may have a full variety of the commodities that are there, upon proper cooperation with the general welfare committee. The fifth point in the responsibility of the Relief Society is to develop welfare projects in which the Relief Society sisters might participate. You may measure the effectiveness of your teaching to those who are being assisted by a very simple standard. If your people come to you and ask if there is available some work for them to do in the welfare plan, then you may know that they understand that work is being provided for all able-bodied persons. If they merely ask if they may have an order on the storehouse, it would appear that you are not doing your job well. Take precaution to have your people understand that work is just as essential as supplying the necessities, and teach them all to come inquiring for work opportunities, in the welfare plan. That becomes your challenge. And if they understand that, it would be the ideal that work be provided before the necessity arises, so that what they receive will be in compensation for work they have done, rather than an order in anticipation of what they may do. I shall class these projects under four different classifications: (1) personal projects; (2) cooperative effort for the benefit of others; (3) community activities in meeting production needs of the welfare plan and other activities of community value; (4) vocational training to prepare the present unemployed to qualify for work in private industry. Under personal projects are types of activities that may be assigned to 461 individuals to work for themselves. Someone has said in council upon these matters that where you have a man in need who cannot get work to do for the ward, or the stake, or for some private person or enterprise in order to compensate for what you are providing for him, then in order that you may find some labor for him to do so that what you do may not be just charity, let him work for himself around his own place or home. For example, you will probably find his house needs a coat of paint. Help him to get the paint and then let him paint his own house in exchange for what he gets from you. If you can get a man to paint his own house in exchange for what you give him, it will not be long until he is off relief. That is a sound bit of counsel. In this connection, may I suggest beautification. What about some shrubs? What about fences that need fixing? Projects for those being assisted might begin in their own homes. If you are going to stimulate home canning, you should provide the right products and instructions. If you are going to require people to do their own sewing, help them to get their own material. If it be gardens, you might help them get the seed, rake, hoe, etc. Such projects should be required of every person being assisted in the welfare plan. In cooperative effort for the benefit of others, you might consider the possibility of a community flower garden, where people can get shrubs and flowers. Some have provided such a place. Have you thought about a ward conservation program for those not actually on relief? I refer you to last year's Priesthood 462 manual entitled Priesthood and Church Welfare, pages 58-59. Here you will find a discussion of that type of activity. I am wondering about home nursing. Have you ever thought of having women from homes being assisted go into other homes to take care of the sick, for which they might receive commodity orders and assistance from the ward bishop? Perhaps you have elderly people who cannot work at physical labor. Have them go to the temple and do work there on the names of those who have worked so hard to secure them. Have you ever thought of assigning a sister to tend the children of other sisters who are needed at the cannery— children's nursing service? Canning and sewing, under the supervision of your ward or stake work director, and grain storage are community activities which will help in meeting the production needs of the welfare plan. If you go to the storehouse, you will see a grain elevator which takes care of 318,000 bushels of wheat. It would be a fine thing if we could foster vocational training to prepare the present unemployed to qualify for work in private industry. Girls brought to work in the office of your storehouse should be trained; likewise, the telephone girls and 

 

 women at sewing centers. If there is machine work to be done, they should be trained efficiently. You can suggest recipes and methods of home canning to those working at canning centers; card wool and cotton for batts; recruit girls for training now available in our school system; train girls and women for domestic service in homes where the owners are willing to pay well for efficient service. Educational activities might include instructions to Church members in vital matters pertaining to the welfare plan: in making and working to a home budget plan; in the preparation and use of welfare plan food; in the art of getting out and keeping out of debt; in handicraft; in useful and essential home practices, such as home breadmaking and dressmaking. Are you aware that ninety percent of those now being assisted are from homes where the mother does not know how to bake bread? Invite someone from the Agricultural Department to inform you of its program, so that as wives you may help your husbands carry out this part of the Church welfare plan. I hope you will keep in mind that all I have said here today is intended to stimulate you to stand back of the brethren of the Priesthood. PERSPECTIVE Youth thinks of death as some dark end To laughing, loving, living; Age learns to walk with death as friend, Not taking all, but giving! —Olive C. Wehr. HAPPENINGS By Annie Wells Cannon July—There is solace for the saddest heart in the cadent fragrance of a summer day. Was Brigham Young dreaming when he said, "Store grain against a day of famine, for thousands will come to Zion to be fed." Ruskin says, "Some dreams are truer than some awakings." Today half the earth's inhabitants are facing starvation. Let those less stricken awaken to their needs and plant and sow and reap every available acre unscathed by the demon of war. Anne Morgan, while directing her ambulance contingent on the fields of France, permitted her beautiful gardens on Old Bedford road to be used by the Friends of France organization for parties and exhibits to raise funds for war sufferers. Alice Blinn, associate editor of the Ladies Home Journal, was the recipient this year of the Anna W. Porter award for the most creative and constructive work by a member of the American Woman's Association. Crown Princess Frederica had a son born June 2, heir to the throne of Greece. Do the stars foretell a throne for this young prince? The Grand Duchess with the prince consort and their children fled in terror from Luxembourg in May. Like other royal refugees, they are wanderers. Truly, "Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown." Carrie Chapman Catt, moving spirit for the Woman's Centennial Congress, called for November to commemorate the woman's century, 1840-1940, is busy organizing in the several states. The Order of Women Legislators is sponsoring the work in most of the states. Lovina Gibson Andrus, the last but one of Utah's original pioneers of 1847, died last month at the age of 98.