occurrences of the past and far outstripped others which had been considered beyond comparison. One parallel is that of the Children of Israel in their forty years in the wilderness on their way to the promised land. In principle and in general purpose the parallel is striking. In details there is little in common in the two experiences. The Children of Israel through transgression and lack of faith delayed their entrance into the promised land and wandered in the wilderness for forty years. The Mormon Pioneers took one year for preparation, and then in less than four months their leader with his vanguard not only gazed on the promised land but actually entered into it. An achievement in the westward trek which surpasses any similar experience in the world's history was the march of the Mormon Battalion from Council Bluffs, Iowa, to San Diego, California, a two thousand mile march through a barren wilderness for the most part. Suffering, heroism and courage, and finally the fulfilment of their assignment to their own credit and to the honor of their country make the story of the Battalion one hardly rivalled in the fiction of the ages. In the past ten years much has been done to honor the Pioneers and their achievements and to preserve the trails and landmarks they established. In the decade just closing, well over a hundred monuments and markers have been erected to mark and save the "story spots" of the West. These markers and monuments have been set up as far east as Nauvoo and as far west as San Diego. They have marked trails, landmarks, sites of important historic events and graves of heroic characters. As one contemporary historian has said: "History follows old trails." Consequently, the principal markers and monuments are along the important old trails toward the setting sun. The Pioneer Trail naturally takes first place in the marking pro- PLATTE CROSSING The Upper California crossing of the South Fork of the Platte. Between this point and the Lower crossing to Ash Hollow were several other fording places—always difficult because of quicksand or high water. gram. Between Nauvoo, Illinois, where it really began, to the Salt Lake Valley, where it ends near the shores of the lake, nearly twenty permanent markers have already been placed, and more are planned. Principal among the markers already erected are those at Nauvoo, Illinois; Winter Quarters, North Platte and Northport, Nebraska; Casper, Independence Rock, Martin's Cove, Rock Creek Hollow, Big Sandy and Fort Bridger in Wyoming; Castle Rock, Henefer, Big Mountain, "This is the Place" and Pioneer Park in Utah; and the monument at South Temple and Main Streets in Salt Lake City, which was erected for the semi-centennial jubilee in 1897. Second in historic importance to the Pioneer Trail is the Mormon Battalion Trail, which led from Council Bluffs, Iowa, where the members were mustered in, to Ft. Leavenworth, Kansas, where equipment was supplied, through Kansas into New Mexico, Arizona, Old Mexico and into California, where the history-making march ended in San Diego more than six months after the enlistments had been made. After long neglect, this trail is now being given the attention it deserves. To the Aaronic Priesthood of Mesa Third Ward of Maricopa Stake, through the interest of former Bishop Hugh Dana, belongs the honor of beginning the marking of the first military highway to the Southwest. This group in the past two years, partly alone and partly with the cooperation of the Utah Pioneer Trails and Landmarks Association, has marked three places of historic importance on the line of march. The "end of the trail" was marked last January through a cooperative 440 movement which included the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, the California Mission, the Priesthood and sisters of the San Diego Branch, the Utah Pioneer Trails and Landmarks Association and the Federal Government. This year the marking movement along the trail is arousing wide interest. At Colmor and Caballo in New Mexico, the New Mexico State Tourist Bureau has erected markers in a series, directing attention to New Mexico's historic trails and landmarks; on June 16 an impressive monument on the trail between Santa Fe and Albuquerque was dedicated. It was sponsored by a special committee of citizens of the two principal cities of the state and the Utah Pioneer Trails and Landmarks Association. Before the year is over, there are indications that other markers will be placed by Scout and Explorer Troops of Texas, New Mexico, Arizona and California. The Mormon Pioneer Trail to San Bernardino, blazed in 1851 by Charles E. Rich and Amasa M. Lyman, the trail to Ft. Lemhi in Idaho, the trail to the San Juan country and others, although dotted with small markers in a few places, have been listed for future attention. Landmarks of importance in Mormon Pioneer history have been marked in most of the western states. Genoa, Nevada, established in 1855 by Orson Hyde when the area around the present Carson City was a part of Utah, has its historic marker.  

 old cemetery at Joseph City in Arizona, one of four settlements established on the Little Colorado River, is also marked. These are two of the most interesting of the distant markers. In Utah, practically all of the "story spots" have been properly designated, with the history permanently preserved in stone and bronze. A noteworthy contribution to the preservation and dissemination of our Pioneer history has been the erection in Utah of forty permanent markers by the Utah State Road Commission. While all of them are not devoted to Mormon Pioneer history, the stories of the Pioneers naturally dominate, as the early history of Utah was made principally by our Pioneers. The most recent of these markers was unveiled on May 18 near Smithfield on the Yellowstone Highway, calling attention to the grave of Martin Harris, which is at Clarkston, fourteen miles west, and citing the important part he played in the early history of the Church. This series will eventually include one hundred markers. When present marking programs have been completed, the old trails will be well marked throughout all of the West, and those who come after us will be able to trace the most remarkable migration of history into every nook and corner reached by the Pioneers. The landmarks, too, will be designated, and bronze tablets will tell, if only in brief, a saga of the great West that will live as long as history is written or read by peoples of the earth. After Fifty-five Years In Mexico Ralph B. Keeler It was in March, 1885, that a train of forty-four wagons, commanded by sixty weary and travel-worn men, reached the little village of Ascension, Chihuahua. They were Mormon immigrants, most of whom had left their newly acquired homes in the Great Salt Lake Valley and traveled southward, beyond the Mexican border, in search of a new peace and religious freedom. I can imagine some of those men wondering if, even then, they had actually found rest and a place to establish a permanent home for themselves and the thirty-five women and sixty-seven children whom they had in their company; for this was not the first time they had approached a new country with the hope of permanent settlement. Almost without stopping, the little band hurried on three miles to the southwest, anxious to reach the 35,000 acre grant which was to become the first Mormon settlement in Mexico, and which subsequently they named Colonia Diaz. Soon more colonists arrived from the regions of Utah, Arizona and New Mexico. By 1891, six years later, four separate colonies had been established along the Casas Grandes River and its tributaries, with a population increase to 2,000. By 1911, the number of colonies had grown to eight, some being established in the state of Sonora, and the population had grown to nearly 4,000. As these towns were building, it was in typical Mormon fashion that they were provided with square blocks and wide streets in the residential sections, and farms occupied the surrounding country. Churches and schools, too, took their place along with roads and canals as primary factors for successful community life. It is not unusual that worship and education should have received early attention, for it was religious freedom which prompted their settlement in this foreign land; and the development of the intellectual powers has, from the beginning, been a fundamental principle with the Latter-day Saints. These settlers had hardly founded their first permanent homes until business enterprises were begun. Gristmills were built in two of the towns. Sawmills were erected in the near-by Sierra Madres, and stores —some cooperatives—were established in each of the centers. By 1895, the colonies were practically self-sustaining and were equipped to do the normal functions of young, thriving communities. Threshers, reapers and mowing machines were now in use. Brick factories were supplying their product for many of the new homes and business houses. A tannery was turning out 1500 sides of leather annually, and a small canning factory was processing fruits and vegetables on a commercial scale. They were operating lime kilns, cheese factories, cane mills, and a furniture factory; putting out candy and ice cream, leather goods, brooms, and many other articles incident to pioneer community life. These early enterprises grew rapidly and were profit- 442 able. As production grew beyond local consumption, ample markets were found in the surrounding country. As previously stated, education received early attention among these ambitious settlers. Typical is the founding of a school at Colonia Diaz; for even before the town was laid out, the children were given "lessons" under the cottonwoods near the site. Later these children were moved into an adobe room, where they remained until a schoolhouse could be built. Again, in Colonia Juarez in the same year (1885), Mrs. Anna Romney gathered the children together in her temporary home—a dug-out in the river bank—and here commenced the first school in this settlement. By 1896, not only were all the colonies provided with elementary schools of eight grades each, but at Colonia Juarez was being built a stake academy which was to offer four years of high school work. Nor was recreation neglected; for since the beginning, well-supervised places of amusement were provided where dances, dramas, music and games of their own making could be enjoyed. Standards of excellence in performance and decency in conduct were upheld. No tobacco, liquor or obscene language were permitted in these social gatherings. It was in this manner that the Mormon colonies in Old Mexico had their beginning. Today there remains but five of the eight original settlements, and these are all in the state of Chihuahua; for during the Mexican Revolution, which began in 1911 and continued for several years, many of the homes and other types of property were completely 

 

 destroyed. Three of the original colonies, including Colonia Diaz, were abandoned, not to be repossessed. Farms and commercial enterprises throughout were either destroyed or badly neglected. Finally, as the maneuvers of warring factions made life unsafe for them, even though they had maintained neutrality, a complete evacuation to the United States was deemed necessary. Following this unhappy move, many did not return to their abandoned homes but found permanent refuge in the United States. The population then became reduced to about 1,000, which it remains today. Certainly, under these trying times of revolution, with their fear for life and the safety of property, the morale of the people was bound to be shaken. Naturally, these colonies suffered a serious set-back in growth and vigor. But during the past decade those who remained in Mexico have made commendable efforts to rebuild their towns and institutions commensurate with their ideals. Whatever may have been lost or gained in the shuffling of events during the past fifty-five years, there stands out, nevertheless, certain factors resulting from life in these Mexico colonies which are worthy of attention by Latter-day Saints living elsewhere. The net result appears to be a positive one in at least some of the factors by which we measure character and moral fiber and adherence to the teachings of the Church. Through it all, there can be seen a growth in religious strength. Let us single out some of these characteristics. In 1937, a random sampling was AFTER FIFTY-FIVE YEARS IN MEXICO made by the author to see what percentage of the young people of high school age attended Sunday services. There was a possibility of attendance on this particular Sunday of three meetings; namely, Sunday School in the morning, Sacrament Meeting in the afternoon, and Mutual Conjoint in the evening. The sampling revealed the following interesting percentages: 39% attended 3 meetings 25% attended 2 meetings 27% attended 1 meeting 9% attended 0 meetings This shows 91% of these young people attending from one to three Sunday services on this particular day, which is believed to be typical of their regular Sunday service attendance. This is not surprising, however, when one discovers that the average stake attendance at their Sacrament meetings for many years has been at or near the top in the Church averages. It may be argued that Church-going in rural communities, such as these, is the only Sunday attraction and therefore should be expected, but this appears to be beside the issue. Going to Church seems a desirable activity in our religious program, and these people go to Church. In the matter of the use of tobacco and intoxicants, the same high standard can be pointed out. In 1937, there was not a single case of habitual drunkenness among the colonists, neither was there among the women and girls a single case of habitual tobacco using so far as was publicly known. Use of tobacco among the men and boys was also rare indeed, for not a dozen in the entire popula- 443 tion were addicted to the habit. This is a commendable record. Missionary activity is by no means neglected among them. In fact, since about 1936, almost the entire burden of missionary work in the Republic of Mexico has been placed upon them alone. This is primarily due to Mexican laws which prohibit religious teaching by persons born outside the country. While the Church average for foreign missionaries in the field per 1000 population is about 5, these little colonies in March of this year were supporting 40 missionaries, or 40 per 1000 population. I doubt if this record is excelled by any stake in the Church. In education, their standard is likewise high. In 1937, all but two children of elementary school age were enrolled in school. The absence of one of these was due to illness. In the high school age group only four individuals were not enrolled. It is interesting to note here that school attendance was not enforced by law but was entirely voluntary. On the university level the same desire for education continues. For example, fifty-four percent of the high school graduates between 1933 and 1935 had been or were in college by 1936. It should be borne in mind in this connection that when these students came to the United States to attend universities (most of them to Utah institutions), they were under a heavy financial disadvantage, for Mexican pesos as compared with American dollars were worth about one-half their normal exchange value. Other factors of note are the almost total non-use of profanity among young and old alike, a high 444 per capita tithing, with tithes being paid by children and adults, and an exceptionally high standard of chastity. All these have been maintained over a long period of years, and therefore cannot be adjudged sporadic and temporary. At this point it is interesting to ask the question: "Do these factors which are developed in the lives of the people living in the Mexico colonies continue with them if they move to other communities in the Church, or do they function only so long as they remain in their sheltered communities away from competing attractions?" With the information at hand, it is impossible to answer this question directly. However, in so far as participation in the organizations of the Church as teachers, officers, and missionaries is an indication of the continued presence of these factors, it must be concluded that once they are established they tend to remain, regardless of a changed location. It is a fact that eighty-seven percent of those Latter-day Saint pupils who graduated from the high school of the colonies between 1928 and 1937, and who subsequently moved into other Latter-day Saint communities, became and continued to be actively engaged in 

 

 auxiliary organizations of their new locations, as stake and ward officers, as teachers, or as missionaries. In fact, it seems to have made little or no difference in the stability of these characteristics whether the individuals moved away or remained at home, for of those remaining at home in this same graduating group eighty-six percent likewise became engaged in Church work. It is readily admitted that the above factors do not constitute the sum of all that is good in moral fiber and respect for the teachings of the Church, yet they do indicate a healthy religious growth in that section of Mormondom. Furthermore, if these factors are good—and I think we will concede that they are— then from whatever quarter they come they make their contribution to the total vitality of the Church. There may be other localities where standards of excellence in these same factors are similarly high—and it is hoped there are many of them—but regardless of this, it is readily recognized that these colonies in Mexico have made, and are continuing to make, a definite and positive contribution to the strength of the Church. "Our Centennial will be not only an appraisal of the past but a dedication to the future."—President Amy Brown Lyman. ADAM BEDE: "It's well we should feel as life's a reckoning we can't make twice over; there's no real making amends in this world, any more nor you can mend a wrong subtraction by doing your addition right." —Adam Bede, by George Eliot. My Heroine (A tribute to Augusta Winters Grant, whose birthday occurs July 7) By Amy Brown Lyman Among the heroines of my youth was my beloved school teacher, Augusta Winters Grant, wife of President Heber J. Grant. In contemplation, my mind goes back to the dear old country schoolhouse, and our large, well-lighted room with a huge stove in the center and filled with a lively group of adolescent boys and girls. For the members of this class, it was the last year in the grade schools; and it was, for me, the happiest year of my early school life. Miss Winters, as she was known to us in those days, was our ideal. We admired her for her beauty and charm, for there was no one fairer in the whole country around than was she. We loved her for her kindness, human sympathy and understanding heart; for somehow we knew unconsciously that even though we often failed to meet her expectations she understood that after all we were trying, that we were anxious to learn, were good at heart and were really worthwhile—and she bore with us. She seemed to understand adolescent boys and girls and to realize that their restlessness is due in a measure to their rapid growth, their craving for sympathy, their desire for experience and their quest for self-expression. We were entertained by her dramatic talent and keen humor which AUGUSTA WINTERS GRANT never failed to break the monotony of the long school days and to stimulate our imagination. We respected her for her nobility of character, her high ideals and for her true Christian life, which were exemplified in all her associations. As time has gone on and maturity has come, I have never been disappointed in my heroine. I have been closely associated with her all through the years. Under all circumstances and conditions she has so reacted as to satisfy my idealism. She has fully demonstrated the saying that, "People are what they have been." We all admire her today for her faithfulness and devotion to her friends, for her modesty, her keen intellect and her interest in humanity, for the beautiful life she has lived, for her poise and balance, for her freedom from those devastating complexes which mar and scar the personality. We admire her for the high standard of living she has maintained. As Latter-day Saints, we especially admire her for her devotion to the Gospel—for her willingness to live 446 it, and to work for it. She has been outstanding for her ability to live in accordance with her religious convictions and to adhere strictly to the teachings and practices of the Church. From these standards she never deviates and is thus a noble example to the womanhood of the Church. She is a woman of great faith. She loves the Lord and His ways. She tries to live the "way of life" which He has pointed out. She is indeed and in truth an orthodox Latter-day Saint. Not only has she lived the Gospel herself, but from her girlhood days she has used her energy and talent to influence others to do the same. As a lay member, she has quietly worked in the Cause. As a Sunday School teacher and as a stake officer in both the Relief Society and the Young Woman's Mutual Improvement Association, she served faithfully.