There is no place like the fireside for teaching the sanctity of mar- LESSON DEPARTMENT riage and the necessary preparations for that important relationship. President J. Reuben Clark, Jr., has given the following advice to parents: This precious spirit of God is here with you, because you willed it so. Your act, not his, brought him to you.... Our Eternal Father will hold every father and mother to a strict accountability for the custody and guardianship of every spirit they bring into the world. The Lord never intended that children should spiritually grow up neglected and cast adrift to care for themselves any more than He intended that the new-born babe should be thrown out into the street to live or die as choice might decree, or to wait until maturity to determine whether he should seek learning or remain in ignorance.* Of the home, as of life, "the kingdom of heaven is within." Such a kingdom in the hearts of their children is worth any parent's labor to obtain. The rearing of children is a task of such magnitude that parents need all the help they can obtain. Religion is the greatest influence they can rely upon. Dr. Rose G. Anderson advises wealthy parents: "Give more of your own time and interest to your children's affairs.... Spend yourself on your children?the dividends in family enjoyment and mental health, in juvenile character and adult integration will be more lasting and valuable than any material riches you can shower upon them."? A similar estimate of the value of religious training in the home and the responsibility of parents in this *The Deseret News (Church Section), April 15, 1939. ?Reader's Digest, February, 1939. 495 important mission was recently given by the White House Conference. From the Conference report, Religion and Children in a Democracy, January, 1940, we quote: Religion has succeeded in maintaining such a balance by placing its emphasis upon the worth of the individual and at the same time upon human fellowship. The primary responsibility for the religious development of the child rests upon the parents. In the family he is first introduced to his religious inheritance as he is introduced to his mother tongue. Here the foundations are laid for the moral standards that are designed to guide his conduct through life. A child's religious development is fostered and strengthened by participation in the life of the family in which religion is a vital concern. Bring Up a Child in the Way He Should Go. During the plastic years of youth, every precaution should be taken to prepare the child for the responsibilities of the future. The home is a sacred altar at which the child is entitled to every safeguard that can be given him. Character building needs all the sanctity that can be given to such a worthy cause; and religion, more than any other agency, is a potent ally which all parents should seek. "If we paid no more attention to our plants," said the plant wizard, Luther Burbank, "than we do to our children, we would be living in a jungle of weeds." Though we consider this assertion an exaggeration, it remains a serious indictment of the American home. Another authority has written of the importance of guidance during the plastic years of youth: "One cannot refuel on flight. When your children are grown and away from you, it's too late to try to train and control 496 them?your time is past. You, as parents, are given the first six or seven uncontested years of your child's life?the most important. After that, the school takes him and builds on the foundation of character which you have laid. After that, his companions take him and build for better or for worse. After that, the world takes him and finishes the product begun by you."? During these uncontested years, when the mother is with her child so much of the time, she has an enviable opportunity to fashion his patterns of conduct and to point out the path she would like him to follow in later life. No period in one's life is more important than these early years when the home plays such a great part in determining his destiny. The Divine Right of Personality. Many popular books have been written in recent years about the value of a well-developed personality. It is generally agreed that personality is too precious a quality not to be developed, and that people with the best personalities come from homes where religious instruction is not neglected. The religious motive and spiritual urge of religion are the most powerful agencies in persuading people to do the things they naturally dislike to do. Personality is not an unchangeable inheritance but is developed by practice. In Dr. Henry C. Link's popular book on this subject he has said, "The greatest and most authentic text book on personality is the Bible.... Other interests besides religion often influence people to sacrifice their immediate pleasures for some more distant goal, but only ?The American Citizen, May, 1940, p. 7. 

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?JULY, 1940

 religion embodies this principle as the major promise of a normal life in all its aspects."? Religion Holds the Key. If all parents realized what a natural and powerful agency religion is as a factor in character training, there would be a determined effort to make the modern home a place of religious devotion, a laboratory of religious and character development. "The need of the hour," Roger W. Babson recently wrote, "is not more legislation. The need of the hour is more religion." The parents must be alert to the perils of the age and safeguard their children against the disillusionments they must encounter later in life. The youth of the land enter the world of business seeking physical security, yet science seems devoted to the invention of weapons of destruction. They seek social security in a world where the humanists shatter their faith and dethrone their ideals. They seek spiritual security in an atmosphere where the liberals in the realm of religious thought seek to lead them into agnosticism and despair. In Karl Deschweinitz's interesting book, The Art of Helping People Out of Trouble, he emphasizes the fact that religion is one of the strongest "dynamics" in persuading people to do the things they naturally dislike to do. From this book we quote: Centuries of human experience have given similar testimony to the dynamic qualities of religion. Again and again it is the decisive factor in enabling an individual to ?Henry C. Link, The Return to Religion, New York: Macmillan Co., p. 34.
