[WomansExponent | Vol29 | 1900 | January | Issue: 15 | Title: WHAT HATH THE CENTURY WROUGHT | Author: Unknown]

WHAT HATH THE CENTURY WROUGHT
	If the question were asked, what has
been the most remarkable development of
the Nineteenth Century, a number of
answers might be given.
	The scientist would point to the magnifi-
cent records of medicine, of steam, of
electricity, of all the mechanical devices and
discoveries.
	The artist would refer you to the rejuven-
ation made in music, painting, literature
and in all the arts which made Greece sole
mistress of the world for centuries.
	The religionist would quote any one of
the great revivals, or perhaps would point
to the intense expressions of materalism on
the one hand, and spiritism on the other.
	Each and all would choose a different
phase of the many-sided Progress in this
passing century, which is as varied as the
natures, occupations and dispositions of
men who have taken part therein.
	If a being from some other sphere, whose
vision had been clarified through absence
of time-limits were asked to answer this
question, his answer, based on the superior-
ity of men to things, would be—the most
wonderful feature of the past century is the
development of the individuality of man.
	Men there have been; individuals have al-
ways arisen here and there on the horizon
of history; but men have been lumped to-
gether, as it were; the nations have hereto-
fore been forcibly classified. The shot at
Lexington tore away the constructing bands
of all previous tradition, and man stood
there alone, each one classifying himself
forever more.
	In primitive conditions men were all indi-
viduals; but as social expression became
necessary men found it expedient to invest
united authority in one or more of their
number. That moment there began the
monarchical form of social life, in which
the man gradually lost identity and the
government rested in the hands of the few.
	With varying forms, this type of life con-
tinued down to the close of the 18th cen-
tury
	Sporadic forms of individuality existed, it
is true, but usually they appeared in law-
less or barbaric life.
	It is not the purpose of this writing to
inquire into the prehistoric or spiritual
causes of such facts as have been stated,
but to group about this premise some ex-
planations and deductions, and to add a
forecast of the near future.
	Consider for a moment what conditions
surrounded the man born into monarchical
life. He was, as a child, environed with a
chain of circumstances which held him with
deathless power. If he were born into a
palace, or on the steps of a throne, he could
have no choice, except between being a
good or bad monarch. All the teachings
and arts of courtiers might portray to him the
unexcelled grandeur and splendor of his

[Column 2]
future; but if he were an artist, a cook or a
carpenter by nature, nothing could be done
for him except to fit him up a playhouse for
his rare leisure moments. Not even his
heart could dictate his marital relations, in
legality. The woman he longed to crown
might be a scullery maid, and the eloquence
of the kingdom might supplement the
teachings and traditions of his youth, while
a dozen utterly disinterested men canvassed
neighboring kingdoms to select the woman
best fitted, politically and strategically
for his consort. One thing he could al-
ways resort to, to relieve the pressure of re-
straint upon his will, he could be wicked or
spiteful, or both.
	Pass down through the various positions,
classes and degrees, until the street gamin
is reached, each, the nobleman’s son, the
merchant’s heir, the child of the tradesman,
the offspring of the day laborer, each was
held closely in the circle into which he was
born by environment, by education and by
tradition.
	One thing each one could do, sink to the
level below him, or down and down till
disgrace and death closed the scene. But
none could go higher, except in rare and
peculiar cases; and these exceptions but ac-
centuated the rule.
	There were exceptions; but where the
individual, through accident or design, suc-
ceeded in reaching a higher class, he was
absorbed into the upper class, and he must
perforce sever all connection with his own
class, no matter at what cost to himself or
to his former associates.
	All these conditions are familiar to the
student of history, and indeed, they exist
today, in such governments as still per-
petuate the monarchical forms.
	No man in Europe says who shall be his
next Sovereign. Nor do they in any
measure, except in France, Switzerland and
England, dictate the policies of their
countries; and in France, in England and
in Switzerland it is the classes which hold
the partial franchise and even then the
power is limited and the choice restricted.
	American independence gives not alone
the power to vote for this man or that, for this
policy or that. The ethical foundation upon
which that right rests is the most precious
gift ever given to man; it is the right of
choice, limitless, boundless.
	A man under this flag may vote or not
vote; he may be a plunger in the Stock-
market or a bootblack on the street. He
may be the ruler of the country, or a tramp.
	If he moves above his youthful conditions
into a wealthier or more cultured class,
there is no reason why his family and
relatives shall not accompany him, if they
comply with the same conditions.
	He may do or not do, he has every human
choice offered him, and the only limit is his
capacity and his will. In other words, he
makes his own environments; in the 
European countries, his environments make
him.
	With this understanding, let us approach
another phase of this subject, and consider
it well.
	When men faced the enemy at Lexington
there were those within the distant cottages
of the village, who melted the lead and
ran into molds the deadly missilles which
gave the final expression to revolt from
tyranny and classification.
	These were women! 
	When she saw, that wife, that mother,
what her husband and sons had wrought;
when she beheld the shackles which had


[Column 1]
bound them to tradition, to classification
and to oppression, stricken from the manly
wrists; when she saw them awaken as from
a long sleep and grasp the reins of self-
government, free, free as divinity itself;
free to choose and the whole world to
choose from, she looked down at her own
slender hands and found them bound by a
far more delicate and ethereal band, but
none the less, bound!
	There came in the early part of this cen-
tury, born just at its dawn, just after the
smoke of the Lexington cannonading had
cleared entirely away, a young prophet into
the midst of men, and he taught them that
government was harmony with law; that
the only free soul is the one which is in tune
with the universe. Disobedience or inhar-
mony is slavery; yet obedience must
rest wholly and solely on the free agency of
man.
	It was a doctrine taught by Jesus to His
apostles, and retaught by Him to the
courageous young prophet.
	The soul of the young man hung upon
the altar of revelation.
	As he looked about the world he felt the
hem of his garment drawn away, and he
turned about; it was his mother, his wife,
his sister who held out to him in wordless
entreaty their delicately manacled wrists.
	He saw what other men could not see,
and his heart was moved within him; he and
his brothers had but late borne a similar
chain.
	With a smile he turned and said gently:
	“Here is the key; unloose thy bands.”
	What help he could he gave. But his
own life was hunted and driven, and at
last he was slain for his testimony.
	The revolutionary flag which was flung
to ‘the breeze starred and striped with
Freedom’s insignia, gave man his political
right; the fearless prophet voice whose
echoes even now are rapidly encircling the
globe—sounded in men’s ears spiritual
freedom; and as the very keynote of that
universal human right was sex freedom,
authority of choice, vested not in a few men
nor even in men alone, but in each one
alike, regardless of creed, color or sex.
	From the hour the key was given, great
and restless activity has marked every
phase of womanly life. One by one barriers
have been swept down and obstructions
cleared away. Here and there individuals
have, broken from the ranks, and have
created momentary confusion and trouble
through recklessness and lack of wisdom;
but the battle has been steadily on. Not
with powder and shell, not with beating
drum and flying flag; but with the subtle
weapons of the spirit, the warfare has been
waged.
	And what mighty generals have led the
forces—Eliza R. Snow, Susan B. Anthony,
Emma Smith, Elizabeth Cady Stanton,
Mary A. Livermore, Sarah M. Kimball
Margaret T. Smoot and Lucy Stone.
	It is incumbant on the student of these
problems to deduct from them some spiritual
conclusion.
	First: men have achieved, for the first
time in the world’s history, absolute right
of choice within the last century. The
awakening came at the close of the former
century, and the close of this sees the grand
accomplished fact.
	Woman received the key to her individu-
ality in the first part of this century, a little
behind her brother in that awakening,
consequently a little behind in the accom-
plishment of the whole purpose. 

[Column 2]
What humanity has received from the
freedom of man, will be doubled in extent
when the freedom of woman is as thorough-
ly established in even this one country.
	The right of choice!
	The right to do or not to do; to choose
any occupation, climate or companion. The
right to ascend, as well as the unhappy
power to descend in the scale of existence.
The precious right of a voice at the ballot,
and the no less precious power to choose
her traditional place in society or to reject it
if she will.
	When woman has acheived her per-
fect liberty, she will choose to be tender,
gentle, intuitional, and, in a word, woman-
ly; she will eschew too active public life,
and she will esteem her natural sphere as
godlike and perfect. But she must be al-
lowed to elect this herself, not be man or
men or even other women, say she ought or
she shall. She will possess and exercise in
full her heaven-ordained right of choice.
Then will come, in this beautiful (20th)
century, whose dawn purples all the hills of
progress, the ideal woman side by side with
the ideal man. She is very near, and be-
side her stands the Mighty One, who died
to redeem all mankind.
	Two notes must be sounded at the close
of this brief exposition: let all men and all
women guard carefully word and thought
when dealing in any wise with the subtle
warfare. For a word may hasten, an act re-
tard, the coming of the ideal. So, too, must
the hand which has been set to the plough,
not weaken in its grasp. Onward! no mat-
ter what be the obstructions.
	The last word of caution is to that eager
restless woman-heart, which sent to spy out
the land of Caanan, and intoxicated with
the beauty and glory of it all, grows reck-
less in her advice to the home army, and
would sweep away and trample down every
opposing force. There is a new element in
our spiritual evolution; even as this sex-
battle is ethereal and indefinable instead of
being waged with arrows or lead, so in our
earth history we have grown away from
retaliation and force. Not bullets with
smiles, not forts but firesides, not revenge
but love, not to force our way but to win it,
this is the inscription on the key which was
put into the woman’s hands over half a
century ago.
	Therefore, the sum of all science, of all
art, of all religion is the development of
man; and out of the ashes of this dead cen-
tury there rises a pure spirit of Progress
which paces towards us, not as man alone
in deified form and mien, nor as woman
alone elevated by sentiment or selfishness;
but side by side they come, the ideal man
and the ideal woman of the (20th) century,
content, smiling, glorified!
