THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL 32 NO 8 Lessons for November AUGUST 1945

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford President
Marianne C. Sharp First Counselor
Gertrude R. Garff Second Counselor
Blanche B. Stoddard Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Anna B. Hart
Florence J. Madsen
Evon W. Peterson
Mary G. Judd
Edith S. Elliott
Ann P. Nibley
Leone O. Jacobs
Luella N. Adams
Priscilla L. Evans
Leone G. Layton
Velma N. Simonsen

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Marianne C. Sharp
Editorial Secretary Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 32 AUGUST 1945 No. 8

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
Missions to the Indians Elder A. William Lund 451
A Navajo Conference Emma B. Evans 457
Navajo Headdress Willard Luce 458
The Vacant Lot Something Must Be Done About It Randall L. Jones 465
Annual Report, 1944 Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer, 1940-45 478

FICTION
Not to the Swift Olive M. Nicholes 461
And for Eternity (Chapter 3) Olive Woolley Burt 473

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 468
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 469
Editorial: Gratitude Should Be Expressed Vesta P. Crawford 470
Notes to the Field: Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (New Official Name) 471
Stake Planning Meeting Recommended During September 471
Red Cross Classes in Nutrition Now Available 472
Relief Society War Bonds to Be Deposited With General Board 472

LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology: Brigham Young's Call to Leadership Dr. H. Wayne Driggs 498
Visiting Teachers' Messages: Charity Suffereth Long and Is Kind Dr. Lowell L. Bennion 502
Literature: How the Bible is Woven Into Our Literature Dr. Howard R. Driggs 503
Social Science: Problems of Personal Conduct Dr. Harold T. Christensen 506

POETRY
Navajo Fair Frontispiece Anna Prince Redd 449
Worship Oliver K. Meservy 456
Words in a Canyon Dott J. Sartori 460
Farmer Christie Lund Coles 467
A Child's Prayer Sue Hopkins 477
Before Dawn Beatrice Knowlton Ekman 512

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 72,000


THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL 32, NO. 8 AUGUST 1945 NAVAJO FAIR Anna Prince Redd Down from tepees, timber cool, they come To sell their silver bracelets at the fair, To barter concha belts and turquoise rings For white man's sugar, flour, and calico. For red and orange dyes to tint new wool. They come from far, "Dineh,  the People, come, With rattle of gourd and tom-tom's steady pulse. Their blankets splotching color on the sand Like gaudy cactus full in thorny bloom Against the gray of cliff and blue of sky. And as they come they chant and sing, or dance The Harvest Dance. A lean, straight race of men With amber squaws whose velvet laughter falls To soothe the brown papooses in their shawls. The Cover "Desert Abode" from a photograph by Willard Luce. NAVAJO PRAYER -WILLARD LUCE Missions to the Indians Elder A. William Lund Assistant Church Historian 

Corrected OCR Transcription
THE translation and publication of the Book of Mormon, a record of a part of Israel on this continent (now known as the American Indians), created a great desire on the part of the Prophet Joseph Smith and the early elders of the Church to visit some of the remnants of the Lamanites (as designated in the Book of Mormon) and preach the gospel to them and give them copies of the Book of Mormon. Upon making inquiry of the Lord respecting this matter, the Prophet, in October 1829, received the following:
And now, concerning my servant Parley P. Pratt, behold, I say . . . I have appointed unto him that he shall go with my servants Oliver Cowdery and Peter Whitmer, Jun., into the wilderness among the Lamanites. And Ziba Peterson also shall go with them yea, even as I have said, so it shall be. (D. & C. 32:1)
Making immediate preparations for their mission, these four elders visited some encampments of Indians near the city of Buffalo, New York, where they spent some time instructing them in the knowledge of their forefathers. These Indians were of the Cattaraugus tribe, and they received the brethren kindly. As some of their number could read English, two copies of the Book of Mormon were left with them. These elders continued their journey westward, preaching in the different villages through which they passed. At Kirtland, Ohio, they tarried some time, where quite a number in that vicinity believed their testimony and came forward and obeyed the gospel. Among these were Sidney Rigdon and a large portion of the church over which he presided. These missionaries were very successful in their labors and organized a small branch of the Church in Kirtland. One of these converts, Dr. Frederick G. Williams, accompanied the missionaries to Missouri.
After leaving Kirtland, on their journey westward, they visited the Wyandot tribe of Indians near Sandusky, Ohio, with whom they spent several days. "We were well received," writes Elder Parley P. Pratt, "and had an opportunity laying before them the record of their forefathers, which we did. They rejoiced in the tidings, bid us godspeed and desired us to write to them in relation to our success among the tribes farther west, who had already removed to the Indian territory, where these expected to go."
On arriving at Independence, two of the company secured employment, while the other three crossed the frontier and began their labors among the Indians. They visited the Shawnees, spending one night with them, and the next day crossed the Kansas River and began their labors among the Delawares. They sought an interview with the chiefog the Delawares, known among the whites as Chief Anderson. Page 451 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1945 He was the ruler of ten nations or tribes, and consequently possessed great influence among the Indians. He had always opposed the introduction of missionaries among his people, and therefore did not at first extend a very hearty welcome to the brethern. Through an interpreter the brethren made known their errand and explained to him the Book of Mormon and the information it contained for his people. They asked to be heard before a full council of his nation, a proposition which the chief took under consideration until the next day. Next morning the conversation with the chief was renewed, but he was not inclined at first to call the council. As he began to understand better the nature 'of the Book of Mormon, he changed his mind and asked the brethren to suspend their conversation until the council could be assembled. A runner was dispatched to the tribes and in about an hour forty leading men were assembled and seated in grave silence to hear the message concerning the book of their forefathers. Oliver Cowdery, at the request of the chief, addressed the assembly. He told them that a history of their people had been faithfully kept by their prophets and wise men, Which was buried in the earth. This record had been brought forth and translated and published and the missionaries had brought some copies of the book, one of which he wished to present to the great chief. The chief replied that they would build a house and have the missionaries come and read the book to them. The missionaries spent several days with the people and considerable excitement prevailed when the news reached the frontier settlements in Missouri. The jealousy and envy of the Indian agents and sectarian missionaries were excited to such a degree that the missionaries were ordered out of the Indian country as disturbers of the peace and even threatened with military action in case of noncompliance. They left the Indian country and commenced laboring in Jackson County, Missouri, among the whites. Here they made several converts who were baptized and added to the Church. Thus ended the first Indian mission, in which the brethren had preached the gospel in its fulness and distributed the record of their forefathers among three tribes: the Catteraugus Indians, near Buffalo, New York, the Wyandots, of Ohio, and the Delawares, west of Missouri. The Prophet Joseph Smith later met with delegations of Sac and Fox and Potawatomi tribes, but there is very little recorded of these labors. During the troublesome times that the Church Went through, including the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother. Patriarch Hyrum Smith, there was not much work among the Indians. However, President Brigham Young established friendship among the Indians by his policy "that it was better to feed the Indians than to fight them." Courtesy John Galbraith RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1945 In 1854, Jacob Hamblin, with Ira Hatch, Samuel Knight, Thales Haskell and A. P. Hardy, were called to go to Santa Clara and there open a ' mission among the Indians. This mission reached into Arizona among the Moquis, Pimas and Navajos. No more thrilling tales of adventure can be found than in the life of Jacob Hamblin among the Indians. His honesty, fairness and friendly treatment of the Lamanites made them feel that he was their great friend. Jacob Hamblin spent most of his time from 1854 to 1877 in helping the Indians to a better life. AT the April Conference in 1855, forty-one missionaries, under the direction of Alfred N. Billings, were called by President Young to establish a mission among the Ute Indians, who resided in the vicinity of Elk Mountain, near Moab, Grand County, Utah. It is recorded that they were accompanied by Arrapeen, a converted ehief. The company consisted of forty-one men, fifteen wagons, sixty-five cows, thirteen horses, two bulls, one calf, two pigs, four dogs, twelve chickens and a splendid supply of provisions. Upon their arrival at their destination, they found about ten acres of land planted in corn, melons, squash and pumpkins. The seed had been secured by the Indians from an exploring party under the direction of W. D. Huntington, who had visited with the   Indians the year before. It had been planted in Indian fashion and the yield was fairly good considering the preparation of the soil. These missionaries built a fort, then started to clear the land for planting, and sought a location for a dam, which they knew they must have to bring water on the land. Soon they met St. John, Chief of the Elk Mountain Indians. The missionaries tried to show and teach the Indians the white man's way of working and living, as well as interesting them in the principles of the gospel. It was not long before the friendly Indians applied for baptism and on the 23rd* of July, fourteen men and women were baptized. Through the good work of Arrapeen, the neighboring Navajos visited the fort and asked to make peace with the Utes. As time went on more Indians were baptized and the brethren thought that all was going to be well with them. But as the crops began to mature, the Indians destroyed the potatoes and gardens of the pioneers. Then they started to steal the cattle belonging to the mission. The elders decided to change the location of the herd grounds so they could more carefully watch their animals. This angered the Indians and a skirmish followed, in which one of the Indians was killed. Chief St. John was their friend, but his son Charles led in the depredations and he and his followers threatened to kill every white settler. So the missionaries decided to return to Manti. Some of the friendly Indians accompanied them part way and expressed their desire for the white missionaries to live among them. Also in 1855, a site having been selected in the upper valley of the MISSIONS TO THE INDIANS 455 Salmon River Basin (now in Idaho) among the Bannock and Shoshone Indians, a company of twenty brethren, mostly from Salt Lake County, Utah, was organized with Thomas S. Smith as president. Traveling to Bear River, they continued through Malad Valley to Snake River until they reached the Salmon River Pass. On the 14th of June they selected a site on what is now known as Lemhi River. They immediately commenced to make improvements and soon had a blacksmith shop in working order, burned coal, and built a corral for the stock. Soon they had built seven houses besides breaking and planting several acres of land and doing considerable fencing. They called their location Fort Lemhi, in honor of Limhi, a Nephite king mentioned in the Book of Mormon. Assisted by the Indians, the settlement proved a success and the Indians, who were anxious to learn the white man's ways of agriculture, were assisted by the brethren. The families of the first settlers and others from Utah soon arrived. President Brig-ham Young visited the settlement in 1857. A second fort was built that year, north of the original fort, and a considerable amount of grain and vegetables was raised. In February 1858, while several of the brethren were busily engaged in mowing hay and hauling timber, a large party of Bannock and Shoshone Indians, many of whom lived around the fort and had previously been very friendly, made a sudden break upon the herd of the settlers, drove off most of the stock belonging to the fort, killed George McBride and James Miller and wounded President Thomas S. Smith and other brethren. This uprising of the Indians led to the abandonment of Fort Lemhi by Latter-day Saints later in 1858, the settlers returning to Utah. On the journey, Bailey Lake, one of the party, was killed by Indians on Bannock Creek. It is believed that this sudden Indian outbreak was caused by the fact that United States soldiers, under General Albert S. Johnston, were encamped near Fort Bridger in the winter of 1857-1858, engaged in a punitive expedition against the people of Utah, who were falsely charged with disloyalty to the United States. Misinformed in regard to this matter, the soldiers are said to have influenced the Indians to make trouble. Space will not permit of an article giving full details of the very great work accomplished among the Indians by the Church. Suffice it to mention that missionaries were sent among the Poncas in Nebraska and South Dakota, the Pueblo Indians in New Mexico, the Mohaves in Nevada and California, the Maricopas and Papagos in Arizona, the Zunis in Arizona and New Mexico, the Creeks in the Indian Territory, and the Utes and Shoshones in Utah and Idaho. TWO incidents are worthy of mention, showing the power of God that accompanied the missionaries in their labors. In 1857, Ira Hatch and Dudley Leavitt were among the Mohaves. These Indians showed a great dislike and distrust of the missionaries and planned their destruction. However, the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1945 humble prayers of these two brethren changed the Indians' attitude of hate to one of love and the missionaries did much good among that tribe. In 1878, Brother Llewellyn Harris was laboring among the Zunis. Smallpox broke out among the Indians, causing many deaths. Brother Harris administered to a very sick boy, who was healed. The Indians made known to Brother Harris their desire that he administer to all of their sick. He commenced to do this but found he could not reach them all so the sick were brought to a large house where Brother Harris administered to more than four hundred Indians. Through the mercy and blessings of God, following these administrations, most of the sick were made well. Successful wards of Indians have been established at Washakie, Utah, Indianola, Utah, and Papa-go, Arizona. Through the patient and loving help given by kind, good and faithful men and women, such as Bishop Hicks and his wife at Papago, the Indians have been made to realize the great blessings that the gospel has brought to them. May the day speedily come when more of these Lamanites may be brought to see the gospel truths and become as they once were "a white and delightsome people." Indian membership of the Church in 1945 is estimated from 1,500 to 2,000. The following tabulation may be of interest: Name of District: Washakie, Location: Washakie, Utah, No. of Indians Enrolled: 100, Have they separate meeting houses: Yes
Name of District: Papago, Location: Mesa, Arizona, No. of Indians Enrolled: 404, Have they separate meeting houses: Yes
Name of District: Washakie, Location: Washakie, Wyoming, No. of Indians Enrolled: 50, Have they separate meeting houses: Yes
Name of District: Catawba, Location: Rockville, No. Carolina, No. of Indians Enrolled: 250, Have they separate meeting houses: Yes
Name of District: Fort Peck, Location: Wolf Point, Montana, No. of Indians Enrolled: 120, Have they separate meeting houses: Yes WORSHIP Oliver K. Meservy I love to stroll through nature's scenes When no one else is nigh. Where I in peace may worship God And on his arm rely. I love the rivers and the hills And all wild scenery. In every place that I may roam My Lord is sure to be. A Navajo Conference Emma B. Evans Relief Society President, Navajo-Zuni Mission EARLY Saturday morning we left for our Navajo conference on top of Toadlena Mountain. The sky was so blue, dotted with fluffy, white, lazy clouds. Great pines whispered and moaned as a crisp wind raced through their All of our missionaries came except one pair from Tuba City, which was too far away. After a good, long visit and supper, a great pine fire was made and logs placed around for chairs. The soft but spirited notes of a violin branches. ANNUAL CONFERENCE, NAVAJO-ZUNI MISSION held on the mountain top, Toadlena Mountain, New Mexico Golden daisies and purple lupines filled every spot left vacant by lacy ferns. What a perfect setting for the spiritual feast of which we had come to partake! Soon Brother and Sister Polacca arrived in a covered wagon. Then, after awhile, a bright spot appeared on the pine-clad horizon and from every direction others came walking, on horseback, by wagon, and by automobile. Two carloads came from Blanding; one, from Arizona. fairly spoke the words of  High on the Mountain Top," and everyone sang to its inspiring rhythm. The moon was perfect, and the glow of the great fire enhanced the beauty and color of the native costumes; and each face shone with spiritual expectation. Testimonies by Clyde Beyal, Mary Jumbo, and Brother and Sister Polacca will ever be remembered. Page 457 NAVAJO HEADDRESS William Luce 1. One of the distinguishing features of the Navajo is his headdress, This same headdress is worn by both the men and women and is especially striking because of its simplicity. Many now use the modern comb but a few still use a bundle of tied together instead. The hair, comb, and strands of yarn are only requisites for milady's hair-do, The two women are the wife and daughter of Jack Frank who sometimes reside at Blanding, Utah. 2. After a thorough combing, the hair is gathered together. 3. Then the center of the yarn is twisted around the hair close to the head. 4. The two ends of the yarn are held by the younger squaw while her mother rolls the hair by lapping it over and over. 5. The rest of the yarn is now twisted around the knot of hair and tied. 6. And the finished coiffure! More songs were sung, and as the fire began to die and children slept, the violin and all present sang "The Spirit of God Like a Fire Is Burning" and truly it was! Dawn brought a gorgeous, shimmering Sabbath atop the mountains. There were bacon and eggs salted with sand and flavored with smoke. There was the clang of sheep bells, and the cook at the neighboring camp calling "Come and get it." And then All gathered in a circle in a grove of shining, silver-coated aspens. What a temple! Carpeted with tall spreading ferns, embroidered with pink, gold and purple flowers, it was topped with a turquoise sky! The purple, red, yellow, and orange blouses and shirts of the participants stood out in gay relief against the green above and beneath. What a picture I beheld as I looked up the sloping stage where Brother Ralph Evans, President of the Navajo-Zuni Mission, stood, with hand raised in welcome, and waiting beside him was the violinist, Clarence (Joe) Hunt, with bow ready for action. The latter was a friend of President Evans, from Blanding, whom he had not seen since "swimming hole" days. Instantly I pictured them as boys holding their noses and going down into the water in a splash of boyish ecstasy. Now they stood before me, clean, tall men fired with divine enthusiasm, ready to "feed my sheep." A grove of aspens has always suggested the Sacred Grove to me, and that thought raced through my mind just as the violin softly played "Oh How Lovely Was the Morning" and Mary Jumbo and her two girls sang the words beautifully. Then George Bloomfield told the story of Joseph Smith's first vision; of his receiving and translating the plates; of Christ's coming to the American continent; of Moroni's promise; and then he very forcefully urged these people to appreciate their book, and closed with his testimony. There was a brief pause after Clyde, the interpreter, finished. Then little, quiet, shining-eyed, immaculately dressed Sister Polacca stood up and told of a manifestation which brought her into the Church. I had heard this related several times before, and it was now told exactly as it had been told on every occasion before, but the setting, the aspen filled grove, and her big, brown eyes looking deeply into my soul as she spoke, gave me the impulse to take her into my arms and crush her to me and bathe her with my grateful tears. Thus I did at the close of the meeting. People wept unashamed, and everyone knew that she had spoken the truth and that she was a choice spirit touched by the divine and raised up to lead her people in the path of righteousness. Then the white people were asked to move back, and every Navajo sat at her feet while she told of this manifestation all over again in her native language.
The meeting was closed, and as I gathered the children and trudged up the hill to its lunch, a feeling of resentment filled me at the thought of breaking so fine and perfect a spiritual thread to perform the earthly task of eating.
The afternoon meeting was rich with testimonies of both white and Navajo missionaries. Children of both races sang and spoke. We had been together a long time, and the white people were showing signs of fatigue. President Evans said, "The sun is getting low, and you are tired. I'll leave it to you shall I talk to you or shall we go home?" An old, white-haired Navajo man slowly uncrossed his legs and said, "When the sun goes down, the moon will come up, so let us have the talk." What philosophy, and how we whites need it in this rushing world! After the talk, the natives still wanted more and the war news was given them.
The long-looked-for conference was over; farewells were said, and we were the last to leave. It had all been perfect. As we reached the summit, there came, almost as a grand finale, the form of a huge, shaggy brown bear and her cub crossing the red-gold path of the setting sun. WORDS IN A CANYON Dott J. Sartori Here, where the lilies bend beneath your boot And summer hangs blue lace behind the leaves, Here, the empty hand and seeking foot Strive no more, and the doubting brain believes. Gather up this moment's measured pittance Against the time our trail, returning, leave the hill, When dwindling mountains purple in the distance And this brief, magic syllable be still. Not to the Swift Olive M. Nicholes ELSA WAYNE sat huddled beside her husband in the high wagon seat, cradling her sleeping baby in the curved shelter of her weary body. The wagon tossed and rolled like a ship in a heavy sea as it toiled over boulders or floundered through the engulfing sand. Dust rolled up from the wheels ahead of them, from the wheels behind them,  an inescapable red cloud, the length of the wagon train. It mingled with the yell of teamsters, the crack of whips and the patient plod of many hoofs.
She glanced up at the man beside her. All the familiar contours of his features were hidden in a wilderness of beard. He turned gentle eyes upward and reached out a comforting hand.
"We're almost theyah, honey. You'll nevah regret comin', once you see the land. Theyah's no end to it. It's like Alabamy an' Cal'liny good cotton country. It'll be home, honey, the Dixie of Deseret."
"Not my home!" she muttered with stiff lips.
Oh, no; not her home! She glared about at the unfamiliar landscape as the dust rolled away and the wheels bit into the solid black lava of the ancient flow winding its tortuous way from the sleeping volcanoes to the northwest. Far to the northeast gigantic blocks and pinnacles were tumbled together in a gorgeous welter of color. Vermillion, bright ochre, orange, mauve and purple glowed and shifted in the sunlight.
She clung with terror to the man whose rapturous gaze shut her away, out of his new life.
"Jim," she choked, "what is it? Let me see, too!"
He turned and took her in his arms, "Theyah now, honey, ain't no call fo' you all to be afeared. It'll all look different in fifty yeahs. Homes an' farms an' cattle fillin' up the valleys. I reckon they'll be churches an' schools an' a temple, too."
Fifty years! Her weary eyes searched for a glimpse of familiar substance. The mountains where were her mountains?
Mountains lay at the core of her being. Born and reared in Switzerland, she had become a part of their permanence and beauty. They embodied the undeniable triumph of righteousness. It had been the vision of mountains that had swept her into the new religion among a peculiar people in a faraway land.
The Valleys of the Mountains! That had been her acolyte. It had lifted her up through privation, hunger and despair, from Missouri to Nauvoo, from Winter Quarters to the West.
She had met Jim at Winter Quarters, a convert just from the South. She had been drawn to him as to a magnet, big, dark, and handsome, with a swift, rare smile and a voice at once slow and decisive. He had been attracted by her vibrancy and fair, shy beauty. Her eyes had been a corn-flower blue, her red hair with promise. Her sunny hair had hung in a flaxen rope, as big as his wrist, almost to her knees. Page 461 She had been full of hope, then. She had been the one to encourage and sustain. Her unquenchable laughter and sweet singing had captivated everyone on that April morning when they joined the caravan. She, who had faced incredible suffering with fortitude, cringed, now, in abject fear. CHE rolled back the curtain of the years and plodded again behind the handcart. The brazen sunlight beat down from a bow! Of blue glass. The baked earth held it and threw it back, intensified, against their aching bodies. Jim, already sick and faint with hunger, staggered and dropped in the trail. The cart behind turned out and rejoined the one ahead. The last of the few wagons, carrying the sick and dying, rolled by, the driver leaning to her with a comforting word. She had not begged for a place for Jim. She knew without asking there would be no room. So many sick, so many dying, and now Jim! There had been a tangled clump of bushes, a heap of broken rocks, where a persistent trickle of water bubbled up to be swallowed, instantly, by the thirsty sand. She pulled Jim into the meager shade and rolled the handcart alongside the embankment to shield him from the merciless sun. Then, piling the bedding and sacks of clothing on the hard ground, she eased him tenderly to the makeshift bed. The driver of the "sick-wagon" limped back and propped a shovel against the cart. He bent over the sick man, felt his pulse, then straightened up and started across the shimmering prairie. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1945 He had loved Jim as a brother. They had come up from the south together, poling their way on a flat-boat, crawling on hands and knees through thicket and swamp. Now he turned and staggered away with a hopeless sag to his shoulders. The living must go on! She had watched him top the rise and disappear. She had turned, then, searching the vast sweep of prairie with anguished eyes. Not a moving thing in sight., "O God, spare my Jim," she begged, kneeling beside the sick man and clasping his hot fingers in her own. She gathered a few dead twigs and leaves and set a tin cup of water over the blaze she had kindled from tinder and flint. She would scald some scorched crusts and perhaps the tang of the hot liquid would staunch the ebbing tide of strength. If there were only a piece of beef to make a nourishing broth! They had seen no meat in weeks. They dared not go in search of game; lone huntsmen fell easy prey to skulking Indians. Indians! The thought crashed into her consciousness . She heard no sound, but they slid up around her, thirty or more, hideous with war paint, filthy with grease and grime. All thought of self was swallowed up in her misery for Jim. Now she could die with him. She rose and faced them in dazed expectancy. A big buck stalked to her side, his one good eye focused on the man on the ground. He pointed to Jim. "Heap sick," he grunted, squatting down beside the cart, and squinting into the dying face. She nodded, stupefied with wonder that she could be alive at all. His black eye swept over the cart with beady interrogation. From an exposed corner of the box a torn pillowcase displayed the bright embroidered folds of her great-grandmother's table cloth.
"Gimme," he demanded, snatching the gorgeous linen from its wrappings. He shook out the gay fringed length of it and watched it dip and ripple about his feet.
She felt instinctively that he understood English better than he would admit. He seemed familiar with the skillet, the pots and pans, the canister of salt and sugar. Somewhere, sometime, his contact with the white man had been merciful and kind.
He unfastened a buckskin pouch at his belt and sifted a fine trickle of dried leaves into the water, simmering on the dying embers. A pungent aroma billowed up with the steam as he tilted the cup back and forth to mix the darkening liquid. Satisfied, at last, he raised it to his lips and blew a gale of breath into the scalding brew. He gulped a swallow and squinted up at her.
"Heap big medicine," he grunted, stooping over Jim. He poured the stimulating draught between the parched lips. The liquid bubbled and welled out. The Indian clamped Jim's lips together in the vise of his cupped palm until the overflow seeped slowly back. He poured in more and more until only the gray leaves fringed the cup.
The dying eyelids flickered and drew apart. Recognition broke through the glazed film of death. The stiff jaws worked and the broken mouthful of soundless words
She flung herself down beside him and gathered him into her hungry arms while the circle of impatient eyes darted from the heap of bright embroidery to the buckskin pouch and back again.
"Gimme," the Indian demanded, snatching up the cloth and depositing the pouch in her lap.
"Yes, yes!" she choked, nodding her head in vigorous affirmation, so that her sunbonnet fell back and dropped to the ground. The flaxen web of her hair escaped and flowed over her shoulders and billowed around her feet.
Thirty pairs of gimlet eyes bored into her scalp. An excited clamor arose. The big chief snarled a command and they shrank back against the hill as motionless as the rocks.
The chief stooped and clutched handfuls of the silken skeins and pressed them against his face.
"Gimme! Gimme!" he shouted, his one eye alight with greedy anticipation.
She laid Jim's head tenderly on the pillows and drew the blanket over his relaxed and sleeping body. Was it not enough that God had taken him back to her, that he would reach the mountains? Should she risk their lives and lose all with exclaim! demands? Her people were starving, dying on their scanty rations. They must have meat for their wasted bodies if they were to reach the Valley and work for the redemption of Zion. How much dare she ask? Her thoughts flew wildly about like startled birds, beating their wings against the cage of her exhausted brain.
The old chief spoke to his braves who stripped themselves of ornaments and laid them at his feet. He pressed them into her arms until beads and shells and feathered finery spilled over her knees in a rainbow flood of color. "No want,  she cried, springing up and crowding the barter into his reluctant hands. "Meat meat plenty meat!" Her arms swept a wide arc of abundance. He slammed the trinkets at her feet and jerked a knife from its beaded scabbard. "No meat/" he snarled, "no can find meat." Across the prairie a cloud of dust spurted up from an arroyo as a thousand buffalo hoofs scrambled to the plains above. A shaggy, black mass, scarcely discernible in the distant haze, rumbled slowly out of sight behind a low hill. "See! See!" she shrieked, gesticulating madly. "Meat plenty meat!" The disgruntled savages turned in wonderment, stiffened and sprang to life. The old chief barked commands as they scrambled for their possessions and disappeared behind the hill. "No kill! No take!" she demanded of the waiting chief as she gathered her hair together and divided it into strands. Her knees turned to jelly and her legs threatened to crumble under them when Jim muttered in his sleep. She stiffend to his need and then began to plait the strands of her hair toether, her sensitive finger-tips guiding the intricate pattern until she could pull the thick rope of it over her shoulder and braid it to its tapering end. Drawing a buckskin thong from her pocket, she knotted it securely at the nape of her neck and motioned for the Indian's knife. At her signal he leaped forward and grasped the completed braid, slipping the knife between her hair prickling scalp. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1945 She felt the cold steel pressed against her flesh, heard the squeal of the blade slicing through the resisting strands. He stepped back with a satisfied grunt and held up the severed prize. He fastened it to his scalp-lock, swung the embroidered cloth over his shoulders, and strutted away to retrieve his pony from the broken rocks. She watched the old savage ride off in the wake of his diminishing braves, her great-grandmother's tablecloth billowing out beneath her flaxen braid that whipped out frantically in the wind. She turned and rekindled the fire and made fresh brew from the strange herb. She repacked their possessions, concealing the shovel from Jim's questioning eyes. Please, God, let it dig no more graves in the lonely trail! At last the long day wore itself out. Cool breezes whispered through the sunburned prairie grass. Jim awakened from his healing sleep. "The Indians! Elsa was it a dream? I can't recall " "No, mine Jim," she whispered, tears splattering down on the thin hands that stroked her cheek. She jerked off her sunbonnet to confirm the wild tale. "Oh, my brave Elsa, my ," he had staggered giddily to his feet and held her close in his wasted arms. He had been proud of her then. He had boasted of her courage to the terrified band hiding in the willows by the river when she and Jim had staggered into camp with the incredulous news. The company had seen the In-(Continued on page 496) The Vacant Lot Something Must Be Done About It Randall L. Jones Special Representative to the General Manager, South-Central District, Union Pacific Railroad

Corrected OCR Transcription
TWO years from now Utah will celebrate the one hundredth anniversary of the arrival of the pioneers in Salt Lake Valley.
July 24, 1847, a small, but determined group of men, women and children, the vanguard of the Mormon pioneers, paused as they emerged from Emigration Canyon for a brief survey of Salt Lake Valley. Led by Brigham Young, they had traveled a thousand miles in search of a new home. After a few minutes study of the Valley, Brigham Young said, "THIS IS THE PLACE, DRIVE ON."
That night, around a camp fire, a tired, thankful, happy band of pioneers sang songs of praise, offered prayers of gratitude, and made a promise "We will make the desert blossom as the rose."
Just what we can do to honor the memory of that brave vanguard centennial cannot at present be determined, but the love trek of tens of thousands of people traveling under the conditions they faced, the conquering of an unconquerable desert, and the building of an empire far from the fringes of civilization, all add up to an event that had a profound bearing on this nation's history, and the hundredth anniversary of such an event cannot by any measure being recorded the finest celebration that conditions will permit.
We would like to invite the world to join in a great celebration. This 1937 legislature proposed a plan for a World's Fair, that Utah might put her national parks, and other scenic attractions on display, and bring people from the far corners of the earth to behold the natural wonders of which we are so justly proud. Before such a plan can be carried out, the war now being waged must end, and travel restrictions lifted. Then, like the careful and proud housewife who is expecting company, we will give the State a thorough house cleaning.
The most serious problem we face in this house-cleaning and rose-blossoming job is the vacant lot. All of us always a night-mare to every community. It is in charge of cleanup campaigns, and the citizen who is proud of his home town.
Every home owner has some pride in his property, and will occasionally clean up the place, even though it takes a lively beautifying campaign to awaken that pride, but there is no one living on the vacant lot, and none of the care of the property washes his hands or the vacant lot, he is merely regarding its appearance. Page 465 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE AUGUST 1945 BEFORE AND AFTER Rubbish accumulates rapidly, soon it becomes an ugly spot growing more unattractive daily. The vacant lot is a dumping ground for everything the neighbors want to get rid of. It becomes a breeding place for rats, mice, flies, and other pests; weeds grow, ripen, and the fall winds scatter seeds in every direction. The vacant lot is the sore thumb of the neighborhood, holding down the value, and increasing the upkeep of surrounding property. Experience has taught us the futility of trying to awaken enough civic pride in the soul of the vacant-lot owner to arouse him to the point of keeping his property clean and attractive. I am convinced that the best solution of the vacant-lot problem is to place a law on the statute books that will give authority to cities and towns to compel the owners to keep their property free from weeds, rubbish, or any unsightly material. The owner would then either keep his property in presentable condition, or he would lease it to his neighbors to be put to practical use as a garden, a supervised playground for the neighborhood children, a parking lot, or some other useful purpose, with the understanding that the lessee keep the premises at all times attractive. If the lot cannot be put to practical use, all accumulated rubbish should be removed and shrubs or tall flowers planted across the front parallel to the street.
THE good housekeeper is ready to receive and entertain visitors at any time, her house is always clean and in order. Only by following her example will our towns and cities be made attractive and ready for company at the time we celebrate the one hundredth anniversary of the pioneers' arrival.
We can make our State attractive, even including the vacant lot. We can complete the fulfillment of the promise. We can make the "desert blossom as the rose," by adopting the same co-operation that was preached and practiced by our pioneers.
We all have a share in the beauty, We all have a part in the plan, What does it matter what duty Falls to the lot of man? Someone has blended the plaster, And someone has carried the stone; Neither the man nor the master, Ever has builded alone. Making a roof for the weather, Or building a house for the King, Only by working together Have men accomplished a thing. Author Unknown FARMER Christie Lund Coles Here is a man who loves the earth. Who loves the duties each day brings  The plowing and planting who knows the worth Of sun and rain and all growing things. Here is a man who will not leave The soil... For it is his very life. As much a part of him. As belief * In God, or in his child, or wife. Here is a man who comes at night To unload his wagon, water his team, Sure that ultimates will be right, A dreamer this, who has found his dream. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, August 1 and August 15, 1885 "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women of All Nations" Editorial: Ulysses Simpson Grant. General U. S. Grant, a great military hero of the late civil war, and ex-President of the United States died at Mount MacGregor, on the morning of the 23rd of July last... The General died surrounded by his loved ones, and in the full enjoyment of the greatness he had himself achieved. He had the unusual honor of being twice elected to the highest position in the gift of the people of this nation.... Memorial services in his honor will be held in all parts of the United States. The Fair Silk Department: Here were worms eating away their green leaves, some spinning, fresh cocoons from this year; seven pounds of silk, some reeled, some spun and colored... Six different kinds of silk cloth... One lovely piece of changeable crimson and blue dress goods... Thirteen yards of purple and white, twelve yards of pink and white. All of the above is entirely Christena and Eliza Forsgren's own work, from the green mulberry leaf to the last stitch in making it up. Miscellaneous: Live near to God, and so all things will appear to you little in comparison with eternal realities. Good temper, like a sunny day, sheds a brightness over everything. It is the sweetener of toil and the soother of disquietude. ASPIRATIONS OF THE SOUL Teach me to know the mystic art Of drawing near to Thee! Teach me to know eternal life. By being one with Thee! Savior, I bring my soul to Thee, Disrobed from things of time; Teach me but with Thine holy touch And seal me ever Thine.  Hannah T. King Editorial Notes: The circular of the Brigham Young Academy... Has been received, and glancing through it we find everything is taught there that is desirable for the young people to learn. Arts and sciences, music, and needlework are included. There is also a Theological Department conducted with the utmost care.... Professor Karl G. Maeser is principal of the institution. He has had a long and wide experience as a teacher and is profoundly thoughtful as well as educationally proficient on all subjects mental, moral and spiritual. Note: The first women's hospital in China has been opened at Shanghai. It is called the Margaret Wilson Memorial Hospital. Editorial: If we cannot acknowledge the hand of an all-wise Parent in the discoveries of science today, I fear that darkness will overwhelm us again; and if it does it will be because of our stupidity in not acknowledging the hand of God in all things.... I would advise those who wish to treat the subject indifferently, to read the thirteenth chapter of St. Matthew, beginning at the thirty-eighth verse, and reflect. Page 468 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon AT the Inter-American Conference of Chapultepec, Mexico March 1945, much was done to assure Latin-American women civil and political rights. To date, only seven Spanish-American countries have given women suffrage. Miss Katherine Lenroot, former head of the Children's Bureau at Washington, National Congresswoman Edith N. Rogers, and Senora Castillo Ledon of Mexico worked on a women's and children's charter. A resolution was passed that women should henceforth be represented at all international conferences. The Inter-American Commission of Women is now an integral part of the Pan-American Union. AT the Chapultepec Conference, Utah's Mrs. Burton W. Musser was chairman of the People's Mandate Committee, which consists of intelligent, public-spirited women of all Pan-American nations. Mrs. Musser has been an official United States delegate to two Pan-American conferences, and was a member of the delegation which flew to nearly every South and Central American country to urge ratification of the treaties. She herself was author of one treaty. She feels that the Chapultepec conference was highly successful in renewing disturbed Pan-American solidarity, in gaining greater world recognition of Sanish-American countries, and in insisting upon peace instead of force as a means of settling international disputes. MRS. GROVER S. RICH, Mrs. Emily S. Stewart, Judge Reva Beck Bosone, and Mrs. Burton W. Musser attended the San Francisco Conference. Mrs. Rich, National President of the Order of Women Legislators, was appointed chairman of all the observer organizations of the nation. The other three represented the People's Mandate Committee and other national and international organizations. Mrs. Bosone, who went to the conference heavy-hearted over world conditions, came away feeling that this co-operative effort was a real beginning toward world peace. FROM the contributions of the Daughters of the Utah Pioneers, Mrs. Kate B. Carter has compiled another invaluable book on early Utah life  Sayings, /ingles. Mottoes, Sermonettes oi The Pioneers. NURSE ALIDA LUTZ-a war casualty has been awarded posthumously the Distinguished Flying Cross. She was killed in an airplane crash on her 197th mission, evacuating the wounded. She had more than 800 flying hours to her credit. Page 469 EDITORIAL 

VOL. 32 AUGUST 1945 NO. 8 Gratitude Should Be Expressed Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thine hand to do it (Proverbs 3:27). MANY of the tools for building happiness lie so close at hand that their worth is often unrecognized. Among these tools, easy to use and free for the taking, is gratitude. Its possibilities for assuring personal contentment and spreading joy to others have perhaps not been fully discovered by any of us. Gratitude has many facets, but fundamentally it is the recognition of the good and the beautiful and thankfulness for them. "Count your many blessings" has been good advice since the world began. This philosophy is still a comfort and a compensation, an ideal to be cultivated, for it is still a paradox of human nature that the largeness of gratitude does not always correspond to the extent of the blessings received. Appreciation is an attribute of the generous mind and the open heart.
When the spirit of thankfulness attains its full stature, it goes beyond gratefulness for that which we personally possess and gains joy from blessings which others own.
Whatever type of gratitude may permeate our thoughts, its value is only half effective if we do not express our sense of gratefulness. Gratitude unexpressed is idle treasure. The thoughtful word of sincerity, the simple "Thank you," the note of appreciation, are all answers for favors received. The alert willingness to offer service to those who have given freely of their time and substance is gratitude expressed.
Gratitude to God is the leaven of religion. Gratitude for country becomes the vital force of patriotism. Gratitude for one's heritage forms the basis for that continuity of life which expresses itself in record keeping and ordinances for the dead. Today more than ever before, we realize an abiding gratitude to that courageous ancestor of the family who first listened to the gospel and believed.
Too often children, even sons and daughters who have attained adult status, fail to give credit to their parents for years of sacrifice and care. Too often the rush of daily life obscures the duties of gratitude. Parents, too, as they grow older and their thoughts turn inward, may be guilty of ingratitude. Through lack of forbearance and understanding, they may demand more of their children than can be given or should be expected.
The Lord has said (Doc. & Cov. 59:21) "And in nothing doth man offend God, or against none is his wrath kindled save those who confess not his hand in all thing, and obey his commandments."?V.P.C. Notes TO THE FIELD
Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
"RELIEF SOCIETY of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints" was voted the official name of the Society by action of the General Board of Relief Society at the Board meeting held June 27, 1945. This name replaces "National Woman's Relief Society" by which name the Society has been known since 1892.
When Relief Society was organized in Nauvoo, Illinois, March 17, 1842, by the Prophet Joseph Smith, the name chosen was "Female Relief Society of Nauvoo." Later when ward organizations were effected after the arrival of the saints in Salt Lake Valley, the designation "of Nauvoo" was dropped and, in 1872, by vote of the members, the word "Female" was also dropped from the title. "Relief Society" was used as the official name of the organization from that time until 1892 when the Society was incorporated for a period of fifty years under the name "National Woman's Relief Society." Since Relief Society is an auxiliary of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, whose message is to all the world, the name "Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints," is felt to be the proper one.
Stake Planning Meeting Recommended During September
THE General Board, with the approval of the General Authorities, again recommends that a stake planning meeting be held during the month of September, preliminary to the beginning of regular weekly meetings in October, for all stake board members, ward officers, and class leaders. It is recommended that, wherever feasible, this meeting be arranged in connection with a stake priesthood meeting or a local board conference in order to keep transportation at a minimum. The purpose of this meeting is to stimulate all phases of Relief Society work at the beginning of the 1945-46 season, to preview lesson work and other activities planned for the coming year, and to give whatever instructions and help are deemed necessary by the stake board. Stake Relief Society presidents will please acquaint their respective stake presidents with the recommendation that special meeting be held, and arrange with them as to the
most favorable time for calling the meeting. Stake Relief Society presidents are requested to send complete details of this meeting to all ward presidents as soon as possible so that good ward representation may be assured. The General Board feels sure that stake board members will make every effort to take full advantage of this special meeting, and that they will be well prepared to conduct their respective departments for ward workers at this meeting.
Red Cross Classes in Nutrition Now Available
THE American Red Cross is now offering throughout seven Western and Pacific States; namely, Utah, Idaho, Nevada, Arizona, California, Oregon, and Washington, courses in nutrition designed to aid homemakers with the problem of substitute foods for rationed items and also with the proper preservation of food and food values. These courses are particularly valuable at the present time because of food restrictions and the possibility of future food shortages.
Two courses are available?one is a twelve-hour course; the other is a twenty-hour course. Classes are conducted once a week or at more frequent intervals according to the desires of those participating in the activity.
Relief Society groups wishing to take advantage of these courses are advised to get in touch with the nutrition chairman of the Red Cross in their local communities. Instructors will be provided free of charge and the necessary equipment will be supplied by the Red Cross.
Relief Society War Bonds to Be Deposited with General Board
DURING 1944, the General Board arranged for the pooling and safekeeping of war bonds purchased by Relief Society, so that none would be lost track of during the reorganizations of Societies which end of 1944, many bonds had been deposited with the General Board for safekeeping only, however, many Societies have not taken advantage of this service.
All stake and ward Relief Societies whose bonds have not been posted are urged to take advantage of the free safekeeping service offered by the General Board. No charge will be made for this service. Bonds mailed to the General Board for safekeeping be sent by registered mail. A receipt will be issued for each bond received, showing the name of the stake or ward Relief Society to which it was issued, the date of issue, the series, the bond serial number, the face value of the bond, and date of maturity. As the bonds mature, they will be returned by registered mail (Continued on page 477) And For Eternity Olive Woolley Burt CHAPTER III Synopsis Delsa Marriott, trying to hide from her family and friends the fact that her fiance, Hugh Temple, serving in Australia, wants to break off their engagement, becomes interested in helping Jeff Holden, widower principal of the two-room school where Delsa teaches, take care of his motherless children. THE extra work at Jeffs every morning and afternoon crowded the days for Delsa so full that she had little time to think of Hugh and of what he wanted to do to her life. "I won't release him yet/' she told herself. "I owe it to us both to think this out clearly before I let go. If I decide that I cannot live without Hugh?and oh, how can I? ?and I hold on, maybe he will see that this is his life, right here in our own home town with our own home folks?the way we have always planned it. Maybe he will write again and tell me it was all a bad dream?a dream born of loneliness and distance and lost hope." So Delsa wasn't counting the days; she was just living and doing; picking up each task as it presented itself, laying it down when it was done. She was surprised, therefore, one afternoon to meet Millie Lewis on her way home from school?Millie Lewis with shining eyes and the breath of excitement about her. "Delsa," Millie cried, "it's club tonight. Have you forgotten?" Delsa stopped. She was on her way to Jeff's to take care of Trudy as she had been doing each day after school. And she had forgotten that tonight was club night. She smiled, excusing her forgetful ness. "I guess it did slip my mind, Millie," she said. "Where do we meet?" Millie looked at her in frank astonishment. "Why, at your place silly!" she cried. "You don't mean you really forgot that, do you?" Delsa nodded, embarrassed. "I've been extra busy this past week," she defended herself. The bright, eager look died in Millie's eyes and something cold and shadowy looked out at Delsa. "So I've noticed." she said shortly. "What do you mean, Millie?" Delsa asked. Millie stood there for a moment, silent, and then she raised her eyes and looked frankly at her friend. "Don't you think you're spending a good deal of time at Jeff Holden's?" she asked. Then she went on quickly, before Delsa could answer, "Oh, I know he needs help?who doesn't? But Hugh's mother doesn't like it?she's been saying things, Delsa. Why don't you let those older women step in and help Jeff out? They Page 473 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST 1945 can take on an extra job as well as you can, and no one would talk." "They didn't take it on, Millie,? Delsa said slowly. "Little Trudy was half sick." SHE stood looking at the road for a moment and then she said, I?ve been working with Jeff all winter?in the same building with him all day. No one ever said anything?" "Of course not! But they might have, if you hadn't been so very, very proper all the time. But now to add an extra hour every morning and every afternoon?and right in his house, too?" Delsa sighed. "People make me sick!" she said. "Let's forget it, Millie. That wasn't what made you come running down the road to meet me?as if you had wings on your feet!" Millie laughed. "No it wasn't. Listen, Delsa! Jim's home! He got in on the afternoon bus? has a whole month's leave. He's going to marry Lina, Monday?and spend his honeymoon right here at home. Says there's no place he'd rather spend it!" She paused to draw her breath. "Oh, Millie, how happy your folks must be! How does Jim look? Is he well? And how glad Lina will be, too!" Tears came to Delsa's eyes as she thought of Jim Lewis, her playmate since childhood, back from danger, safe at home. It meant a lot to her?to the whole town? that one of the boys could come back, out of the torment of war, to be himself again. It meant that the war hadn't yet destroyed the old life utterly. "But that isn't all, Delsa. That isn't all! Jim's brought a buddy home?Alec Windsor?to spend the whole thirty days here. Just think, Delsa?a beautiful man in uniform to dance with and talk to and look at! Oh, I'm so excited!" Delsa laughed, then. "You, excited, Millie over a strange man? And with that diamond on your finger?and your heart snugly tucked under a certain ensign's jacket?" "Yes, I am excited, Delsa Marriott, and I'll bet a dime you are, too. How can the boys blame us? If what the papers and pictures and stories say is true, the boys get excited when they see a girl after they've been in the jungles for months!" DELSA waved "her hand, indicating the bare fields about her, now showing the black earth through the snow which was fast melting under the spring sunshine. "This isn't exactly a jungle, Millie," she said. "But t see your point. And what is this Alec Windsor like?" "He's like Hugh Temple, Delsa," Millie said quietly. "It really gave me quite a start when Jim brought him in?the same long, thin darkness that Hugh has?the same intent brown eyes. Oh, Miss Delsa," she mocked, "you'll be excited too, when you. See him, but it won't do you any good? nor any of us. He's spoken for." The mention of Hugh's name had caused Delsa's heart to jerk, feeling a hurt, empty place at its core. But she assured a gusty she couldn't feel as she asked, "And by whom, please tell me?"
"I don't know who she is, Delsa. It's quite sad, in a way. Alec got leave to come to the U. S. to marry his sweetheart. She's a WAC. But when he and Jim got to San Francisco, his WAC had been shipped out?he doesn't even know where. So he had no place to go and nothing to do. He was all for going right back to the South Pacific, but Jim persuaded him to come on here and take the rest he needed. Gosh, if it weren't for Louis I'd certainly undertake to comfort him, poor guy!"
Delsa smiled at her chum. "We'll all undertake to cheer him up," she promised. "There's safety in numbers?for him as well as for us?so we can do a good job of it, without any of us running into danger."
"And guess what?" Millie went on irelandly. "I told Jim to bring him to club tonight, when he came to pick Lina up. Then I'll introduce him to the crowd. Won't that be a honey of a surprise?"
"O-oh?" Delsa exclaimed. "The club! I'll have to dash, Millie, if I get Trudy cared for and get home in time to get anything ready. And I must. I don't want the girls to know I forgot?"
She gave Millie a quick hug and hurried on down the street, Millie calling after her, "Your Mother and Aunt Martha are getting things ready. I came past there."
Delsa hurried on.
Of course her mother and Aunt Martha would be getting things ready. They always helped her when it was her turn to entertain the War Widows.
DELSA smiled to herself, thinking of their club name. Of course they were none of them widows?they were none of them even married. But they had felt so bereft when the boys all left that they had taken this somber name for their little group that met every few weeks to work on things for the homes they would have "some day." The truly married women had a club of their own and they met to comfort each other and to make baby things. Lina, Delsa thought suddenly, Lina would soon join that other club?the fist one of her crowd to break away.
She looked about her quickly, critically, as she entered Jeff's house, and she smiled with satisfaction. Mrs. Reeder wasn't half bad when she knew someone was watching her. She was really doing a creditable job now, caring for Trudy and Davy and cooking the foods Delsa told her to cook. The house was neat and clean, and the Trudy, laughing and happy, didn't look much like the dirty, crying child Delsa had found there only a week before.
The baby saw Delsa and laughed holding up her arms to the girl. Delsa picked her up and cuddled her for a moment, and then set to work checking what had been done and what was to be done.
"I can't stay to bathe Trudy tonight, Mrs. Reeder," she explained. "I have company coming this evening and I've got to rush on home. But you know how to do it." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST 1945 Davy came running into the house and flung his arms about Delsa's knees. She stooped and hugged him, and said, "You be a good boy, Davy, and mind Mrs. Reeder. Delsa's got to hurry home tonight." BUT in spite of her haste, the March twilight was falling before she could get away, and as she went swiftly up the walk to the house she could see, through the lighted windows, her mother and Hugh's mother, moving about the rooms. She opened the kitchen door and went into the big room, feeling the warmth from the stove upon her cool cheeks, smelling the fragrance of the cooking supper, feeling happy that this was her home. These good feelings made her forget her slight embarrassment at being late and at forgetting about the party. But she had no sooner closed the door behind her than she remembered and her happiness shriveled up. For her mother, busy at the stove, did not greet her with her usual cheerful, "Hello, Delsa!" and Hugh's mother's silence was like a cold wind across her. She tried to shake it off. "Hello, folks!" she cried gaily, and went and put her arms about her mother, giving her a squeeze. "You're a darling to get things ready. Mom. I hurried?" There was no answer, no yielding in the stiffness with which her mother's body answered her caress. Delsa turned to Hugh's mother, trying to ignore the rebuff. "How are you. Aunt Martha?" She couldn't for the life of her, make her voice sound light and casual. When Hugh's mother didn't answer, going about her work with stiff-lipped silence, Delsa turned to them and said quietly, "You are both angry with me. Why?" "I guess you have a hint," her mother said and Delsa felt almost like smiling, noticing how her mother couldn't bear to maintain the angry silence between them. "I know I shouldn't have forgotten the club meeting," Delsa said contritely, She thought, I can't stand it to have them angry. Then, determined to ignore their disapproval she went on, knowing her news would distract them, "Jim Lewis is home?but it's supposed to be a secret till tonight. Millie's going to have him call for Lina ? and guess what! He's brought his buddy home with him!" That caught their attention, and with the slight encouragement of lifted eyebrows and stopped movements, Delsa told about Alec Windsor and how he had come to return home with Jim, and of Jim's plans to get married. Hugh's mother sniffed audibly at this. "Jim's smart to grab Lina while he can," she said, "not that Lina ever would look at any one else. She's a mighty loyal little soul, is Lina." Delsa knew what Hugh's mother meant?she wondered, shall I drag her suspicions out into the open? Shall I try to clear them up? Or will that only confirm them? Deciding on ignoring the silent accusations, she went briskly about eating her supper, clearing up and preparing for the club.
But she was acutely aware that Hugh's mother was displeased with her?that something dear and intimate had gone out of their relationship, and she thought bitterly how easy it was for distrust to tear down in one week what years of love and trust had built up.
And she thought determinedly, I won't stop helping Jeff! That's silly?that would be admitting to myself that they are right. But I will do something, something to show them that a small, neighborly gesture doesn't mean anything. I'll have to do something?but it won't be leaving Trudy and Davy to the mercy of Mrs. Reeder's unsupervised laziness.
And the thought of Trudy brought the thought of Hugh and the aching knowledge that giving him up would mean giving up the hope of some day holding his baby and hers against her heart.
(To be continued) Notes to the Field (Continued from page 472)
to the respective Relief Societies which own them. A Relief Society wishing to call a bond before maturity may procure its bond at any time upon request, accompanied by the receipt of deposit issued by this office.
Bulletin 24 issued February 19, 1942, to all stake, ward, and mission Relief Society presidents, pointed out, on page 13, that Series E bonds are for issue only to individuals, that any bonds purchased from Relief Society funds should be either of series F or G, and should be in the name of the Society. Not the name of an individual. A CHILD'S PRAYER Sue Hopkins Holy Father, hear my prayer, Lead me through this world of care. Let my sins be all forgiven. Find me safe at last in heaven. Annual Report?1944 Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer 1940-1945 
RELIEF Society activities were carried forward during 1944 very much as in 1943, and the outstanding accomplishments were in the same fields; namely (1) sewing service including an extensive assignment for the Church Welfare Plan; (2) continuation of special war services; (3) a further substantial increase in Relief Society Magazine subscriptions; and (4) continuation of the Society's educational program with a slight but heartening increase in attendance despite wartime restrictions and conditions.
These and other services and activities were carried forward by Relief Society women with their characteristic devotion, efficiency, and humility, despite their intense anxiety over the absence of sons and daughters and other loved ones due to the exigencies of war, despite the increased demands on their own time because of labor shortages in their homes and communities, and despite the great grief of the loss of gallant young sons.
To all these, the sisterhood of Relief Society has been an anchor and a blessing, a source of sympathetic understanding and deep spiritual support, a means of easing anxiety and sorrow in the blessed-ness of serving others, of gaining uplift and hope for the future, and of strengthening their faith in the divine plan of eternal life and progression.
The growth in Relief Magazine subscriptions was reported in detail in the issue for May 1945, pages 292 to 313, indicating that the exceptional gains resulting from the special effort of 1943 were not only maintained but further increased during 1944 by nearly 5,000 additional subscriptions. Attention is also directed to "Notes From the Field" appearing monthly in the Magazine and recounting various Relief Society activities as reported by stakes, missions, and local Relief Societies. These continuing reports serve to high light and delineate Relief Society activities which, in an annual report, can be treated only in summary. Pertinent figures from the 1944 report are compared with those of 1943 in summary tables appearing on pages 494-495.
RELIEF SOCIETY SEWING SERVICE
Sewing service at Relief Society work meetings in 1944 was the most extensive yet reported, aggregating a total of 716,760 hours' service and 254,004 units completed. Classified according to kinds, the 254,004 completed articles consisted of 14,019 quilts, 21,866 pieces of other bedding, 39,725 articles of children's clothing, 18,578 articles of women's clothing, 12,195 pieces of men's
clothing, and 147,650 miscellaneous items such as dish towels, rugs, and other unclassified articles.
However, the number of women doing this increased sewing declined slightly from 1943 to 32,676. It therefore seems advisable to repeat the following exhortation from the 1944 Annual Report: "... this group of sewing women represents less than one-third of the total membership of the Society, and it would seem that a larger percentage might be brought into the sewing program, even though some of the members are unavailable for this service because of war work or other employment. Suggestions for emphasizing and extending the Society's sewing program throughout the Church, and for enlisting the interest and participation of more women in the work meeting through promotion of sewing skills, appear on pages 378-389, this issue [July 1944] of the Magazine."
Sewing for Red Cross
Approximately one-fourth of the women sewing at Relief Society work meetings during 1944 worked on articles for the Red Cross. These women, numbering 7,874, gave 193,338 hours and completed 103,744 articles. Although fewer hours of service were given, the articles completed were more than double the number reported in 1943, indicating the making of a greater number of small articles requiring less time than articles previously assigned by the Red Cross.
Sewing for Church Welfare
The next largest number of articles was completed for the Church Welfare Plan and totaled 83,414 pieces. This is more than three times the number of articles completed for the Church Welfare Plan in 1943, but in that year the assignment consisted principally of quilts, whereas the 1944 assignment consisted principally of clothing for men, women and children and supplementary bedding and household supplies such as sheets, pillowcases and dish towels. There is no segregated record of the amount of time spent at Relief Society meetings on Church Welfare sewing.
Many stakes held impressive displays of the sewing accomplished for the Church Welfare Plan during 1944. (See "Notes From the Field," June 1945.) As in 1943, the General Board authorized the purchase of materials for this assignment from funds of the Society, and disbursements for this purpose doubtless accounted largely for the increase of $4,268.19, or 30 per cent over 1943 disbursements. Permission to use Relief Society funds for this purpose was not continued beyond 1944, when collection of funds by Relief Society visiting teachers was discontinued and when the General Board and the General Church Welfare Committee agreed to rely on the provision of the Church Welfare Plan which charges regional or stake welfare committees with responsibility for financing assignments which they receive. The following comments from a few stakes reflect the spirit with which Relief Society women accepted this assignment and the pride which they took in its fulfillment: RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST 1945 From Rexburg Stake (Idaho): This assignment was almost equally divided among the fifteen wards and at a special meeting was given to the ward presidents for acceptance. It was with a great deal of trepidation that the assignments were given to the wards, but not a single word of protest was made. Each president accepted her list and went home to work out ways and means of fulfilling it. Cotton goods of any kind and white materials especially were almost off the market, but this did not daunt the sisters. With a will that finds a way, the assignments were completed before the close of the year?many of them, before six months had passed. Some of the wards used their charity or their general funds, or part of both, for the purchase of materials. Others gathered donations from the teachers' districts. For example, a certain district would be assigned the twenty-one dish towels, and the teachers on that district would either collect the goods or their equivalent in money. Most of the layettes were gathered at a baby shower at one of the work meetings. At the meeting beforehand, slips of paper with the names of articles required were drawn by the sisters, and on the day of the shower, they came with the article nicely wrapped. The occasion was made into a lovely party, with refreshments, programs, and games, after which the layette was displayed by the presidency. One ward made most of their assignment from poultry feed bags, which they collected from the poultry men in their area, washed and bleached and then made into slips and panties, pillowcases and dish towels. Some of the bags were dyed in pastel colors and made into dainty slips for the children. When completed, the assignments were pressed and beautifully packed and turned into the welfare center. Not a single article from any ward was lacking. We feel that neither mere words nor cold figures can tell the sacrifice, loyalty and devotion which the sisters put into the achievement of this huge task. Many of them bought their limit or two sheets, giving them to the Society and doing without themselves. Hours of sewing in the homes were required for the completion of this project. But we are sure that every Relief Society woman in the stake is gratified with her accomplishment. From Phoenix Stake (Arizona): During January 1944, representatives from each ward met and cut all the articles for our welfare sewing; 50 hours of cutting was done. The articles were then distributed to the wards for sewing. Our 1944 assignments were completed early in the year. From Cottonwood Stake (Utah): The women of the eight wards met the requirements of the welfare assignment in the most co-operative spirit, finishing the entire assignment long before it was due. Great pride was taken in making the layettes, fine handwork making them very dainty and attractive. Every organization displayed in its oven ward the finished articles before sending them to the regional storehouse. From San Francisco Stake (California): The stake and ward Relief Societies exhibited their welfare sewing in the amusement hall at the October stake conference. This exhibit consisted of ten large tables laden with handmade quilts, clothing, et cetera. This display helped to stimulate interest in welfare work and an appreciation for the industry of the Relief Society women. The following comment from Uintah Stake is a reminder of the timeliness of the bedding project recommended by the Church Welfare Committee and the General Board of Relief Society in 1941 and 1942 for the purpose of encouraging and assisting families to restock their bedding supplies: From Uintah Stake (Utah): - During 1944 our bedding project was still being carried forward in some wards with interest and beneficial results. One ward with an enrollment of forty-one members ANNUAL REPORT 481 completed forty-three quilts, almost an average of four quilts for each work day of the year. At the close of this year we all know that materials for quilt making are practically off the market. The president of this ward tells us they are very thankful this bedding project was assigned for now every family in their ward is more adequately supplied with bedding than ever before, and in working out the project they have had very happy times together, have increased the average attendance at meetings, and have grown spiritually. Other wards have also done splendid work in the line of bedding. Sewing for Other Purposes Articles made for Relief Society purposes, usually to replenish the Societies treasuries through bazaars and custom sewing, chiefly quilting, also increased over 1943 and amounted to 54,434 articles. In addition, 116,171 articles were made for other purposes, such as sewing for hospitals and other worthy community purposes, but a slight decrease of nearly 7,000 articles was recorded in this section during the year, doubtless due to decreased need for this service from community agencies. Here are some additional comments which relate to other Relief Society sewing activities and to the efforts made to increase participation in Relief Society work meetings with a view to teaching and benefiting the members themselves with their home sewing as well as to give sewing service for others: From Uintah Stake (Utah): Also on work days we sponsored a project of made-over clothing. To make this more interesting and beneficial some of our ward leaders participated in a three-day school conducted by an extension specialist from the Agricultural College. These leaders then demonstrated in die different wards the work they had received, and soon many little girls were thrilled with a new skirt made from daddy's old coat, or a slip or even a dress made from his old shirt. To finish off this project we had a display of "made-overs" at our stake conference in November. From Rexburg Stake (Idaho): Our board added four women's and four men's suits to our baptismal clothing cupboard; also some towels and a heavy rug. This project has proved a great blessing to the children and adults who come to the Tabernacle for baptism. A member of the board is in attendance each month. A small fee is charged for the use of the clothing?enough to pay for the laundry. Our aim is to supply enough clothing someday to have every one wearing uniform outfits. From Phoenix Stake (Arizona): Thirty-two baptismal suits were cut and made and donated to the Arizona Temple. From Pasadena Stake (California): A project on which our Relief Societies are really putting forth some excellent effort is the remodeling of used clothing. We are obtaining old clothes which are in good condition and making the hard-to-get children's clothing, and the materials are far superior to any new ones which can be purchased at this time. From Ogden Stake (Utah): The wards seem much enthused over the new procedure on work day, and we are happy to note a general pickup, and that the attendance is improving. From Snowflake Stake (Arizona): Several bazaars were held during the year. One ward working for a new rug for their room put pep into their work by choosing sides. Each group was given $20 to buy material with; the bazaar netted them over $300. From Highland Stake (Utah): At a planning meeting on September 19, we presented a display of new and RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST 1945 remodeled clothing and other articles in an effort to stimulate an interest among the ward workers in introducing similar activities into their work meetings. One of the wards held a successful apron sale and one helped with a ward fair. In several of the wards cooking demonstrations have been held on their work days. A fairly large amount of quilting has been done in most of the wards. We feel that the new work-day program has been carried out very successfully in our stake. OTHER CHURCH WELFARE SERVICE In addition to sewing at Relief Society meetings on articles to be turned in to bishops' storehouses, Relief Society women have done sewing at some of the storehouses, have assisted at storehouses with the canning of a tremendous amount of fruits and vegetables, and have stimulated interest and activity in their various communities in increased canning for home use in order to conserve food supplies and to relieve commercial supplies for war use. Although reports of the number of hours given by Relief Society women on Church Welfare projects (other than sewing at Relief Society meetings) are still incomplete, a total of 524,915 hours' service by Relief Society women on such projects was reported last year, almost double the number of hours reported the previous year, an increase of 237,105 hours, or eighty-two per cent. Only a small fraction (five per cent) of this service is given by women whose families are being aided by the bishops, ninety-five per cent of this service being given by women whose families were not being assisted. In fact, the hours' service by women whose families were receiving aid from the storehouses decreased during 1944 by twenty-five per cent while service by other Relief Society women increased ninety-six per cent. Of this storehouse service and other activities in the interest of the Church Welfare Plan, a few stakes and one mission reported as follows: From San Diego Stake (California): Our women have spent many hours at the canning plant as well as at the sewing center. A laundry room has been built very recently and the board, with the ward organizations, donated equal amounts earned from the sale of used clothing and equipped it with a fifty-gallon tank and laundry tubs. From the Canadian Mission (Canada): The sisters in several of our larger branches have assisted in canning about 2,000 cans of fruits and vegetables, and are at present working on welfare assignments?making quilts, layettes and maternity bundle" for use in their own organizations, and, of course, preparing more "Bundles for Britain." From Uintah Stake (Utah): In all wards, classes sponsored by Relief Society were held by the home demonstration agent for instruction in pressure cooking testing. Many cookers were tested during these demonstrations. Instructions were also given on drying of vegetables and fruits and sulphuring of fruits. Three classes of Relief Society women were also given instruction in home gardening. From Cottonwood Stake (Utah): Early in the summer all of the women possessing pressure cookers were given the opportunity to test them. ANNUAL REPORT 483 Although no accurate count was taken of the amount of canning done, we feel sure that enough fruits, vegetables, and meats have been canned to top any previous year. From North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho): We have co-operated with the county home demonstrator of the Department of Agriculture in the testing of pressure cookers, meal preparation, growing of vegetable gardens, and demonstration in canning, bread making, use of patterns, et cetera. All these were done with the hope of making our Relief Society members more efficient in these war times. From Snowflake Stake (Arizona): Another activity that has interested our women resulted from our aim to get a first-class recipe for canning our most productive Arizona crop?pinto beans. The stake welfare launched the project throughout the Relief Society. The results brought sixteen samples of canned or bottled beans, from which first and second choices will be made. From Mount Ogden Stake (Utah): The canning for the storehouse was participated in by each ward as the season's produce came in. CONTINUED WAR SERVICES Relief Society women continued their wholehearted support of wartime agencies during 1944, as more extensively described in annual reports for 1942 and 1943, and in "Notes From the Field" for October and November 1943, and August, October, and November 1944. In addition to sewing for the Red Cross, already discussed, Relief Society women have served extensively at Red Cross sewing and bandage-rolling centers, but time spent for this purpose is not included in the count of hours devoted to Red Cross work at Relief Society meetings. The ward first-aid kits, first recommended by the General Board in 1942, were still being maintained by ward Relief Societies at the end of 1944, in the number of 780 kits, and, in addition, 529 home-nursing supply chests were being maintained; 544 wards were also keeping current lists of nurses available in the community as had been recommended by the General Board. The value of these kits to a community in case of accident or disaster was demonstrated March 14, 1945, when twelve men were badly burned in a Kenilworth mine explosion. This ward, in Carbon Stake (Utah) reported: "Of greatest value were the ten woolen quilts and the two woolen blankets. Most of the men, wearing nothing but charred bits of clothing, needed warm covering immediately. The bedding was lifted from the chest standing in the entrance way of the hospital, the quilts doubled and placed over the sufferers as they lay about waiting further medical aid. Later, several of the quilts protected the men in ambulances speeding to Price. Medical attendants expressed gratitude for the quick availability of these coverings whose warmth helped to stave off shock. Because a mine hospital is well stocked with emergency materials, other supplies were untouched. However, the nurse said, "Just one more man and everything would have been used," adding, "it is a lesson to all Relief Societies that there is a definite purpose in having these kits in every ward." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST 1945 A member of the Society remarked, "I thought after the war we might sell those quilts, but now I see their use extends beyond a wartime precaution." Narrative reports from some of the stakes refer to their war service as follows: From Phoenix Stake (Arizona): On the fourth Monday of each month our ward Relief Societies have taken turns serving at the U. S. O. They furnish and prepare the food. Sandwiches, cakes, pies, and homemade cookies seem to please the boys most. On Christmas day the Second Ward officers served over 400 boys. They felt a great satisfaction in making Christmas more pleasant for servicemen. From San Diego Stake (California): Our members have spent many hours at the Red Cross, donated blood, kept children that others might work, opened their homes to out-of-town servicemen, fed and cheered them, mothered them and sent them on their way wih a prayer in their hearts for their safe return. Our Latter-day Saint women are more than anxious to do all they can to assist the war effort. From South Los Angeles Stake (California): At the beginning of this year we were aware that our mothers were anxious to help, as an organization, the work of the Red Cross. We, therefore, arranged with our local chapter to become a separate unit, The Sea Gull Unit, and during the year our sisters have completed 1,216 articles of clothing and spent 3,990 hours working to help this splendid organization to help their boys and girls who are a part of our armed forces. From Mount Ogden Stake (Utah): The Red Cross has received extensive aid, as will be noted through reports. The canteen has received several hundred dozens of cookies, as well as many women giving service there. The surgical dressing department of Red Cross received many hours' assistance from Relief Society women. From South Ogden Stake (Utah): Six of our wards furnished 495 dozen cookies for the Red Cross canteen during the year. From North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho): Our first counselor acted as chairman of the Red Cross activities. She arranged with the county Red Cross officials for regular working hours for the wards and nearly all of our Societies have helped to fill the county quotas. From Canadian Mission (Canada): We have sent about 300 pounds of clothing, soap, safety pins, et cetera, to the Relief Society in Britain for distribution there. We recently received a letter from the Relief Society officers of the British Mission, in which they tell us that some of our clothing has been sent on to France to help relieve conditions there. This was made possible through the help of one of our officers who, although he is in the battle area, finds time to do this work of mercy for the children who suffer there. Some of our branches have done exceptional work. A recent bundle came in from the Hamilton Branch in which were many children's sweaters made from ends of new material purchased from a knitwear factory by one of the employees who is an enthusiastic Relief Society worker. These ends were made into lovely sweaters, suits, garter waists, and even underclothes. It was a beautiful bundle. The letter from Britain tells of the need "over there" for children's clothing, ages one to fourteen, and clothing for elderly people, also bedding. We have promised to help as long as there is need. During 1944, stake and ward Relief Societies purchased additional war bonds in the amount of $37,889.46. Purchases for the two previous years amounted to $44,623.08 bringing the total by the end of 1944 to $82,492.54. During 1944, the General Board arranged for the pooling and safekeeping of these bonds, so that none would be lost track of during the reorganizations which will occur prior to maturity. By the end of 1944, bonds to the value of $41,335.00 had been deposited with the General Board. All stakes and war Relief Societies whose bonds are not so deposited are urged to take advantage of the free safekeeping service offered by the General Board.
MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE
Relief Society meetings of all types during 1944 numbered 89,629, an increase of 7,317 or 9.58 per cent from the previous year. All types of stake and ward meetings shared in this increase but local meetings for members claimed sixty-four per cent of these additional gatherings. Further analysis indicates that 77.91 per cent of the increase in meetings for members occurred in mission branches which conducted 5,585 more meetings in 1944 than in 1943, whereas wards conducted 1,670 more meetings. These several meetings with extent of increase are listed in the table on page 494.
Training-Report Meetings and Ward Preparation Meetings
It is heartening to note that a slight increase of 3.42, or four per cent, also occurred in the number of visiting teachers' training meetings, and that an even more substantial increase was felt in number of ward preparation meetings which advanced from 7,018 in 1943 to 8,515 in 1944, an increase of 497 or 7.08 per cent. The increases in these two types of meetings were doubtless due to the emphasis placed on them by the General Board to help bulletins to officers, through the pages of the Magazine, and through the discussion meetings conducted by representatives of the General Board during the latter part of 1943 and 1944.
The combination of the training and the report meetings for visiting teachers (recommended in the Magazine for September 1944), and the stress laid on the purpose and importance of this meeting, doubtless stimulated this increase which it is hoped will be even more evident as the new plan is carried through 1945. The increase in the vitally important ward preparation meeting for officers and class leaders was further stimulated by a detailed outline of procedure which was published in the Magazine for September 1944. Nevertheless, the number of such ward preparation meetings should nearly double in order to represent a monthly meeting of this kind for all local Relief Societies during the eightmonth period, September through April, and during the summer period as required. In furthering these two types of meetings and also in held demonstrations during 1944 which were attended by local officers. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST 1945 Here is what three stakes have to say regarding the ward preparation meeting: From Phoenix Stake (Arizona): At the opening of the fall season each board member was assigned a certain ward to visit once a month (preferably ward preparation meeting) and to bring to the board problems and accomplishments of this particular ward. At the next board meeting these problems are discussed and any suggestions from the entire board are then taken back to the ward. We feel that follow-up visits by the same board member will result in more helpful suggestions. From Highland Stake (Utah): We have worked hard during the past year to get all of our wards to hold regular monthly preparation meetings, as we are fully convinced that such meetings present an opportunity to the ward workers to become more familiar with the Relief Society program, and with the problems and interests of their individual organizations. At the beginning of the 1944-45 season, we, as a stake presidency, visited the monthly preparation meetings of each ward to see how they were conducted and to attempt to stimulate more interest in such meetings. All of our wards realize the necessity of getting their officers and workers together in such meetings and they are now being held regularly. We feel that the visiting teachers' training report meeting and the method of making reports have been more successful and more interesting than the former procedure. From Uintah Stake (Utah): Another thing we think is resulting in good to our wards was a demonstration, at union meeting, of an executive officers' meeting, and of a ward preparation meeting. Ward Conferences An increase was also recorded in the number of annual ward Relief Society conferences held, but the Sunday evening meeting in March, also for the ward membership in general, may have been included erroneously in some instances. A substantial increase of twenty-one per cent was noted in the number of officers' meetings held in connection with the annual ward Relief Society conference, the number increasing from 1184 in 1943 to 1424 in 1944. South Ogden Stake(Utah) comments on these meetings as follows: We succeeded in holding preliminary officers' meetings before each of our ward Relief Society conference sessions. A questionnaire was presented by the visiting board member, at each preliminary meeting, checking on each department of ward work. In connection with the ward conferences, we wish to report that our stake presidency was very considerate of us, appointing high councilmen to attend both the preliminary officers' meeting and the general session in each of the wards, as well as furnishing transportation to the outlying wards. We feel deeply appreciative for this courtesy, and we know that it added much to the success of our conference to have one of the stake presidency or one of our high councilmen in each of our conferences." Increased Attendance of Members A small but encouraging increase in attendance at Relief Society meetings was noted during 1944. On the average, there were 475 more women in the weekly meetings than in 1943, bringing average attendance to 29,171, representing 28.6 per cent of Relief Society members. The downward trend of the two preceding years, directly due to war conditions, has been greatly slackened in some areas and entirely blocked in others. Nevertheless, efforts to improve attendance records should not be relaxed as ANNUAL REPORT attendance at local Relief Societies in stakes actually declined from 1943, whereas better attendance at local Relief Societies in missions accounted for the general increase. This is doubtless due in part to population shifts from home wards in stakes to temporary locations near war plants and military centers located within mission boundaries. War conditions, including employment of women, are still reflected in Relief Society attendance records. For example, Rexburg Stake (Idaho) reports: ? More and more of our women are working in the seed houses, stores, and in the fields. Snowflake Stake (Arizona) reported the following efforts to increase attendance: Three wards started nurseries during Relief Society to care for young children. Three wards had contests in attendance and preparation of lessons. One of these wards put their score card where the Sunday School children could read their mothers' records. Several wards made friendly visits to delinquent members, to encourage attendance. ' The accompanying table, when compared with similar figures for previous years, indicates some shift in the popularity of the subject matter treated at the weekly meetings. AVERAGE ATTENDANCE AT LOCAL RELIEF SOCIETY MEETINGS Theology and Work Meetings: Wards in Stakes 26,463, Mission Branches 5,325, All Relief Societies 31,518. Literature Meetings: Wards in Stakes 23,269, Mission Branches 4,030, All Relief Societies 28,199. Social Science Meetings: Wards in Stakes 23,509, Mission Branches 4,732, All Relief Societies 28,241. All Meetings: Wards in Stakes 23,692, Mission Branches 4,736, All Relief Societies 28,428. Wards in Stakes 24,233, Mission Branches 4,038, All Relief Societies 29,171. The theology meeting on the first Tuesday of the month continues to lead, with an average attendance of 31,818, but the figure is slightly less than the average of 32,187 for 1943. Attendance at all other types of meetings increased over 1943. The social science meeting day, on the fourth Tuesday of the month, held second place from the standpoint of average attendance in 1944, whereas it has previously held fourth place. Average attendance at the literature meetings on the third Tuesday of the month very closely approaches that of social science. Although attendance at the work meeting indicated that it held fourth place from the standpoint of popularity during 1944, attendance on this day actually increased over 1943 and will doubtless continue to do so as the modified program recommended by the General Board and published in the Magazine for July 1944, is further developed and varied to meet the home-making interests and to utilize the talents of Relief Society members. Average attendance was lower than in 1943 at all four types of meetings held in wards, but higher in each category in the missions. 

Corrected OCR Transcription
Stake Meetings
All types of stake meetings showed increases (see table on page 494) except those held in lieu of union meetings which declined slightly, as would be expected in the face of a 64 per cent increase in number of actual union meetings held. It is also interesting to note that many stakes took advantage of the opportunity arranged for by the General Board to hold union meetings in connection with fourth-quarter stake conferences rather than to conduct an extra general session of such conferences. Although twenty-three more stakes participated in union conferences than during the preceding year, the number conducting extra general sessions declined by twenty-nine, whereas the number holding union meetings in lieu of such extra general sessions increased by fifty-two. ORGANIZATIONS AND MEMBERSHIP
The decline in Relief Society membership which has been in progress since the peak year of 1941 continued during 1944, but the rate of loss was much less than during the two preceding years. The net membership decrease from 1943 was 1,848 or 1.8 per cent, whereas the loss in 1943 was 3,373 or three per cent and in 1942 was 8,000 or seven per cent. The reasons for the decrease are the same as during the previous two years?unusual population shifts throughout the country occasioned by war employment and other war conditions, with the resulting lack of affiliation with the Relief Society in the new and often temporary location, and to the clearing from the rolls of names of women who joined the Society during the height of the membership campaign but proved to be not genuinely interested. Actually, there were more admittances to membership (12,730) during 1944 than in 1943 and also fewer removals and resignations, leaving the net number of members increased in 1944 at 102,961. Local Relief Societies should continue to solicit unenrolled women including new arrivals who in so far as may have been affiliated elsewhere.
The members are accounted for in a total of 2,217 local Relief Societies. The geographic distribution on page 493 shows the number of local Relief Societies and number of Relief Society members in each state of the United States and in other countries. These organizations and members are also listed according to whether they are located in stakes or in missions. There were 135 more ward Relief Societies in stakes in 1944 than in 1943, but nearly 2,000 fewer members. On the other hand, local Relief Societies in missions declined by twenty-four, but the number of members increased slightly (131). Another distribution of members?according to assignments in a Society?appears on page 494. As is usual, approximately half of the total membership is assigned to one or one or more capacities of the organization's elected officers, leaders, special workers or visiting teachers. ANNUAL REPORT 489 However, the number of stake officers and board members declined during 1944, doubtless as a result of curtailed activity on the part of stake workers due to war conditions. Executive and special workers in the wards increased slightly, as did the number of visiting teachers, but nearly 600 fewer class leaders were reported, as a result of the discontinuance of the home topic from the monthly work meeting, as announced in the Magazine for July 1944. Where there is a shortage of women for the various positions, one officer or class leader frequently serves in more than one capacity, but is counted only once in this distribution. From this same table it is noted that seventy per cent of all Relief Society members are Magazine subscribers? the highest proportion in the history of the Society. The percentage of subscribing officers and class leaders was about the same as in 1943, but sixty-seven per cent of the visiting teachers and other members was reported as subscribers in 1944 as compared with sixty per cent in 1943. VISITING TEACHING The continued decline in visiting teaching since the beginning of the war is again apparent from the 1944 report. Despite the fact that visiting teachers' districts were increased by 631 or four per cent, evidently in order to reduce the number of families per visiting teacher, the number of visiting teachers was increased by only 131, and the number of visits dropped by 46,368 or four per cent. Visits attempted where no one was found at home constituted 368,022 or thirty-two per cent of the total of 1,144, 519 visits made. Families were found at home in 776,497, or sixty-eight per cent of the visits attempted, a slightly better ratio than was found at home during the previous year's visits. Nevertheless, visits attempted in 1944 were actually fewer by 126,884 4% 4% 49444 immediately preceding the war. Although nearly 20,000 communications were reported by mail and telephone, in lieu of visits, contacts of this type were nearly 8,000 fewer than in 1943, or twenty-eight per cent less. This may be partly accounted for by the fact that the General Board discouraged the printing of visiting teachers' messages, some of which were doubtless mailed to unvisited families and were replaced by no other communication in lieu of a visit. The decline of nine per cent or 3,799 in average monthly number making contributions is a direct result of the change in policy, announced in the Magazine for September 1944, when collections by visiting teachers were discontinued, after being in effect for 102 years, from the Society's very first meeting. The new policy became effective in October 1944, so that the number of contributors shown in the annual report represents principally those making donations during the preceding nine months. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST 1945 COMPASSIONATE SERVICES Visits to the sick and homebound increased by seven per cent to 116,219 during 1944, but the number of days' care of the sick, both volunteer and paid from the Society's funds, declined by four per cent to 13,883. There was a decrease of twenty per cent in number of bodies prepared for burial, particularly with respect to those instances where complete preparation was given. This would indicate an increase in the services of morticians; on the other hand, there was a slight increase in the number of bodies dressed for burial by Relief Society women. It must be remembered, however, that many deeds of kindness, compassion, and helpfulness are performed for those in sorrow and distress which cannot be measured in terms of reports, as evidenced by the following excerpts: From South Los Angeles Stake (California): Every ward in our stake has performed its various activities cheerfully and efficiently, but there is one ward which we feel has had the spirit of service in rich abundance. The Maywood Ward sisters, under the direction of their president. Sister Irene Andrus, went in a group and painted and papered the entire house of one of their members who is confined to a wheel chair. From North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho): The Sunshine Committee, which consists of stake board members, continued to make the weekly visits to the L. D. S. Hospital. We were especially desirous of visiting Relief Society women patients from distant towns, hoping to cheer them and to extend to them assistance when needed. From the New Zealand Mission: You will also notice under "Burial Assistance" there is a blank. This does not give a true picture of the situation as the Relief Society sisters are very active in their services for the dead. They have been complimented on many occasions by undertakers and hospital attendants because of the lovely manner in which they have dressed the dead. I have encouraged the sisters to see that elderly people and those whose health is failing keep on hand suitable white clothing for burial when the need arises. They have responded well to this request. Some of the Relief Societies are continuing to co-operate with local public health authorities in conducting well-baby clinics. September 1944 marked the twentieth anniversary of the Cottonwood Stake Maternity Hospital (Utah) which is operated by the Relief Society of that stake; 736 babies were born there during 1944. All together 8,595 patients have been admitted since the hospital was opened. This hospital is recognized as fulfilling all requirements of the U. S. Government for the acceptance of servicemen's wives. This stake has continuously operated a well-baby clinic since 1921. In 1944, a total of 387 children attended this clinic and all have the privilege of tree vaccination for smallpox and immunization for diphtheria and whooping cough, in addition to physical examination and consultation. Funds Expended Total disbursement of local, stake, and mission Relief Societies and the General Board during 1944 aggregated $539,155.22, an increase of ANNUAL REPORT 491 $98,552.90, or twenty-two percent over disbursements of 1943. Of this amount $110,354.57 was spent for charitable purposes and $428,800.65 for general operating expenses and the Society's educational work. The charitable disbursements represented an increase over 1943 of $18,168.69, or twenty per cent, which may be attributed chiefly to authorization by the General Board of the use of Relief Society funds for the purchase of materials for the 1944 Church Welfare clothing assignment. In addition. Relief Society funds were disbursed directly to needy families and health services were also provided in some areas. Commodities with an estimated value of $4,896.92 which had been contributed to the Relief Society were also distributed to the needy, bringing total charity disbursements to $115,251.49. Included in the disbursements for general purposes is a considerable but unidentified amount spent for improving Relief Society rooms and stake and ward buildings in general. The following few excerpts from narrative reports indicate the nature of these expenditures: From ???New Zealand Mission: Recently we have made a drive to raise money to install a community shower bath in one of the Maori Pas whose misfortune it is to be deprived of proper sanitary facilities. The response has been most gratifying. We have collected over $600 from the various Relief Society organizations for this purpose. From Uintah Stake (Utah): This year our stake board was asked, along with other organizations, to fix up the Relief Society room at the stake office. To do this we needed some money. So we accepted an invitation to prepare and serve three banquets for different groups and felt well paid for our effort when we cleared almost $500. From North Idaho Falls Stake (Idaho): During the early part of the year the stake and ward Relief Society organizations purchased a carpet for the Relief Society room in the stake tabernacle. Funds were raised by special effort with that thought in mind, in most cases. The stake board had in 1942 raised funds to enable it to attend the centennial services in Salt Lake City. Since that event was cancelled we decided to use the money in the furnishing of that room. From Nampa Stake (Idaho): On March 10, our board held a bazaar. Although only ten in number at that time, we worked hard and intensely and with help from other Church members we were very successful. Our profits were $120.15. We are working for a bazaar again this year in March. Our stake is looking forward to a stake building and we hope to have funds on hand for furnishings for our room. From San Diego Stake (California): In August 1944, the board was assigned the task of raising $1,000 for the stake building fund and we immediately went into action. We held an apron bazaar, a candy and ice cream sale, and gave a chili supper. A dinner was given later on and the balance of the fund was donated by our members. In a short time we had our quota with $55 over and were the first organization in the stake to complete this assignment. Total net assets of the Society as of the end of 1944, including cash on hand, wheat trust funds, war bonds, and other invested funds, value of real estate, buildings, furniture, and other property were reported to be $1,440,070.55. RELIEF SOCIETY of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints SELECTED DATA from the ANNUAL FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL REPORT Calendar Year, 1944 Compiled in the office of the General Board from reports submitted by local wards and branches, by stakes and missions, and from the accounts of the General Board Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer, 1940-1945 DISBURSEMENTS RELIEF SOCIETY
of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
SELECTED DATA
from the
ANNUAL FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL REPORT
Calendar Year, 1944
Compiled in the office of the General Board from reports submitted by local wards and branches, by stakes and missions, and from the accounts of the General Board
Vera White Pohlman, General Secretary-Treasurer, 1940-1945
DISBURSEMENTS
Disbursements for Wards and Branches: General Expenses $45,634.02, Charitable Purposes $15,733.40, General Board $16,997.15, Total $110,354.57. All other Cash $276,346.53, $46,017.12, $144,427.00, Total $458,890.65. Total Cash $321,980.55, $61,750.52, $155,424.15, Total $539,155.22. Merchandise By Products Distributed for Charitable Purposes $4,896.92, Total $4,896.92. Total Disbursements $326,877.47, $61,750.52, $155,424.15, Total $544,052.14.
MEMBERS
Membership?January 1, 1944: 165,800. Increase?Added by Membership during Year: 13,730. Increase?Conversions: 14,678. Removed or Resigned: 13,443. Died during Year: 1,176. Net Increase During Year: 13,789. Members, December 31, 1944: 162,061.
Distribution of Members According to Assignment and "Relief Society Magazine" Subscriptions as of December 31, 1944
Totals: Members 162,061, Magazine Subscriptions Number 71,083?, Per Cent 70.18. General Officers and Board Members: Members 22, Magazine Subscriptions 22, Per Cent 100.00. Stake Board Members: Members 1,474, Magazine Subscriptions 1,318, Per Cent 89.41. Mission Presidents and Officers: Members 155, Magazine Subscriptions 133, Per Cent 85.64. Ward and Branch Executive Officers: Members 8,833, Magazine Subscriptions 7,439, Per Cent 79.73. Other Officers: Members 4,710, Magazine Subscriptions 3,921, Per Cent 83.24. Class Leaders: Members 7,451, Magazine Subscriptions 6,216, Per Cent 85.72. Visiting Teachers: Members 49,035?, Magazine Subscriptions 33,183?, Per Cent 67.04. No Assignment: Members 90,381, Magazine Subscriptions 18,851, Per Cent 20.85.

Geographic Distribution of Relief Society Organizations and Members
December 31, 1944
United States: Stakes Organizations 1,043, Members 84,419, Missions Organizations 461, Members 6,286, Totals Organizations 1,799, Members 97,735.
Alabama: Missions Organizations 9, Members 176, Totals Organizations 9, Members 176.
Alaska: Missions Organizations 10, Members 123, Totals Organizations 10, Members 123.
Arizona: Stakes Organizations 61, Members 5,730, Missions Organizations 2, Members 56, Totals Organizations 61, Members 2,844.
Arkansas: Missions Organizations 8, Members 108, Totals Organizations 8, Members 627.
California: Stakes Organizations 112, Members 7,576, Missions Organizations 12, Members 221, Totals Organizations 125, Members 7,797.
Colorado: Missions Organizations 3, Members 58, Totals Organizations 3, Members 1,058.
Connecticut: Missions Organizations 1, Members 28, Totals Organizations 1, Members 28.
Delaware: Missions Organizations 1, Members 18, Totals Organizations 1, Members 18.
District of Columbia: Stakes Organizations 3, Members 182, Missions Organizations 1, Members 479, Totals Organizations 2, Members 257.
Florida: Missions Organizations 12, Members 217, Totals Organizations 12, Members 217.
Georgia: Stakes Organizations 14, Members 936, Missions Organizations 7, Members 116, Totals Organizations 269, Members 18,777.
Hawaii: Missions Organizations 182, Members 18,641, Totals Organizations 6, Members 117.
Illinois: Stakes Organizations 5, Members 181, Missions Organizations 1, Members 73, Totals Organizations 6, Members 181.
Indiana: Missions Organizations 8, Members 106, Totals Organizations 8, Members 106.
Iowa: Missions Organizations 10, Members 109, Totals Organizations 10, Members 103.
Kansas: Missions Organizations 8, Members 191, Totals Organizations 8, Members 191.
Kentucky: Missions Organizations 16, Members 191, Totals Organizations 15, Members 191.
Louisiana: Missions Organizations 6, Members 61, Totals Organizations 6, Members 61.
Maine: Stakes Organizations 3, Members 81, Missions Organizations 5, Members 61, Totals Organizations 8, Members 81.
Maryland: Missions Organizations 6, Members 171, Totals Organizations 10, Members 171.
Massachusetts: Missions Organizations 10, Members 122, Totals Organizations 10, Members 122.
Michigan: Missions Organizations 6, Members 166, Totals Organizations 6, Members 166.
Minnesota: Stakes Organizations 1, Members 15, Missions Organizations 11, Members 267, Totals Organizations 11, Members 267.
Missouri: Missions Organizations 28, Members 954, Totals Organizations 30, Members 973.
Montana: Stakes Organizations 31, Members 1,608, Totals Organizations 31, Members 1,608.
Nebraska: Missions Organizations 9, Members 127.
Nevada: Stakes Organizations 1, Members 25, Missions Organizations 1, Members 5, Totals Organizations 2, Members 30.
New Hampshire: Missions Organizations 2, Members 32, Totals Organizations 2, Members 32.
New Jersey: Stakes Organizations 15, Members 271, Missions Organizations 10, Members 165, Totals Organizations 17, Members 827.
New Mexico: Missions Organizations 27, Members 271, Totals Organizations 200, Members 727.
New York: Missions Organizations 20, Members 512, Totals Organizations 20, Members 512.
North Carolina: Missions Organizations 7, Members 125, Totals Organizations 7, Members 125.
Ohio: Missions Organizations 18, Members 296, Totals Organizations 18, Members 296.
Oklahoma: Stakes Organizations 21, Members 1,121, Missions Organizations 9, Members 108, Totals Organizations 21, Members 1,127.
Oregon: Missions Organizations 11, Members 294, Totals Organizations 32, Members 677.
Pennsylvania: Missions Organizations 17, Members 245, Totals Organizations 17, Members 245.
Rhode Island: Stakes Organizations 1, Members 18, Missions Organizations 1, Members 245, Totals Organizations 1, Members 245.
South Carolina: Missions Organizations 3, Members 75, Totals Organizations 3, Members 75.
South Dakota: Missions Organizations 8, Members 106, Totals Organizations 8, Members 106.
Tennessee: Stakes Organizations 7, Members 82, Missions Organizations 33, Members 496, Totals Organizations 33, Members 496.
Texas: Missions Organizations 637, Members 51,149, Totals Organizations 681, Members 51,149.
Utah: Missions Organizations 3, Members 132, Totals Organizations 3, Members 132.
Vermont: Missions Organizations 2, Members 152, Totals Organizations 2, Members 152.
Virginia: Stakes Organizations 18, Members 104, Missions Organizations 4, Members 158, Totals Organizations 9, Members 194.
Washington: Missions Organizations 1, Members 64, Totals Organizations 1, Members 64.
West Virginia: Missions Organizations 6, Members 70, Totals Organizations 6, Members 70.
Wisconsin: Stakes Organizations 42, Members 2,314, Missions Organizations 8, Members 50, Totals Organizations 45, Members 2,364.
Wyoming: Stakes Organizations 40, Members 1,984, Missions Organizations 445, Members 7,370, Totals Organizations 453, Members 9,284.
Argentina: Missions Organizations 12, Members 133, Totals Organizations 10, Members 131.
Australia: Missions Organizations 11, Members 77, Totals Organizations 10, Members 77.
Brazil: Missions Organizations 1, Members 23, Totals Organizations 1, Members 23.
Canada: Stakes Organizations 33, Members 1,728, Missions Organizations 26, Members 813, Totals Organizations 59, Members 2,040.
Czechoslovakia: Missions Organizations 2, Members 41, Totals Organizations 2, Members 41.
Denmark: Missions Organizations 7, Members 442, Totals Organizations 7, Members 271.
France: Missions Organizations 10, Members 120, Totals Organizations 10, Members 120.
Germany: Missions Organizations 197, Members 3,539, Totals Organizations 197, Members 3,539.
Great Britain: Stakes Organizations 7, Members 166, Missions Organizations 87, Members 1,820, Totals Organizations 93, Members 1,820.
Mexico: Missions Organizations 22, Members 397, Totals Organizations 22, Members 397.
Netherlands: Missions Organizations 15, Members 207, Totals Organizations 15, Members 207.
New Zealand: Missions Organizations 25, Members 516, Totals Organizations 25, Members 516.
Norway: Missions Organizations 12, Members 313, Totals Organizations 12, Members 313.
Palestine: Missions Organizations 3, Members 57, Totals Organizations 3, Members 57.
Samoa: Missions Organizations 4, Members 675, Totals Organizations 4, Members 675.
South Africa: Missions Organizations 6, Members 61, Totals Organizations 6, Members 61.
Sweden: Missions Organizations 11, Members 271, Totals Organizations 11, Members 271.
Switzerland: Missions Organizations 18, Members 319, Totals Organizations 18, Members 319.
Tonga: Missions Organizations 12, Members 240, Totals Organizations 12, Members 240.
Uruguay: Missions Organizations 1, Members 17, Totals Organizations 1, Members 17.
Totals: Stakes Organizations 1,280, Members 86,405, Missions Organizations 928, Members 15,656, Totals Organizations 2,312, Members 102,061.
Figures for countries in Continental Europe are for 1938, the latest available.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST 1945 Not to the Swift [Continued horn page 464) indians skulking in the ravine, had seen them slip down over the hill. The scouts had hopelessly watched them ride off, the old chief with Elsa's tablecloth and scalped locks streaming out behind. The men averted embarrassed eyes when she had displayed her bristling mop and intact scalp, but-the women had run, laughing, for strips of cherished velvets and silk to bind up the unsightly fringe. "Aye; it's tooken a brae' bit o' corage oon the lassie's paert t' gi' awa heer bonny tresses," old Jenny McBride had chided them. "If the auld hathen's kaipin his word we'll be slaipen' in hooses whin the cauld wind blaus." The old heathen had kept his word. At sunset on the second day he tore into camp, his braves tailing out behind, loaded with buffalo beef. After two days of cooking and feasting, of drying and salting down, meat, they had resumed their journey. Elsa would never forget the afternoon she looked down upon Zion. A cluster of log cabins nestled in a broad valley, turning to gold in the September sunshine. Two years slipped by. The hollows in Jim's cheeks disappeared. Firm flesh upholstered his gaunt frame. He fenced a piece of land, built a log house, made tables and chairs and a bed. He hired out and earned a wagon, two black oxen and the necessary tools and seed. One day when wild currants flamed in the canyons and choke-cherries fringed the waterways with "summer-snow," she gave Jim a son. Her heart had been too small to hold its burden of joy. She had gone, thankfully, to the Bowery on the first Sunday morning and sat with her baby across her knees. She had lifted her voice again in praise, had listened to Brother Brigham, secure in her dreams. It had all seemed so right, so wonderful to be in the Valley. Then had dawned the unforgettable day that brought her dreams crashing down. Brother Brigham was speaking. His voice seemed to drift in from another world. "The climate?suitable to cotton ?a mill site by adequate water power. Need men?skilled in growing of cotton?spinners?weavers?families who have proved their courage." Then, like a thunderbolt, Jim's name and hers! She had sat like one condemned, her cooing baby unnoticed in her lap. Jim came, his eyes aglow with a new purpose. Friends crowded around, some of them already bargaining their farms away. It seemed like sacrilege to her. She helped Jim pack as the weeks wore away and the harvesting began. Its abundance had furnished her scant pleasure. It mattered little whether she lived or died. She was leaving the mountains, going to a land she detested, a wilderness beyond the last outpost of civilization. When, at last, they joined the caravan at the "Square" on that early autumn morning, she climbed up on the wagon seat, hoping against hope that something would happen to turn them back. Men bustled about the wagons NOT TO THE SWIFT 497 packing and repacking. Oxen chewed their cuds and switched their tails with melancholy indifference. Women gathered in excited knots, restraining heedless little feet from the bedlam of activity. She sat on the high wagon seat, alone, staring at the mountains with desperate eyes. At last the command to start rang out like a pistol shot. A murmur swelled to a roar. Neckyokes creaked, oxen heaved and strained as reluctant wheels rolled into line. On and on they rumbled?past Ka-nosh, beyond Parowan and the Cove, up to Cedar Mountain and the Iron mines, over the Rim of the Basin and down, braking the wheels with logs of cedar and pine. SHE came to herself with a start. Jim was shaking her gently. She awoke into stark reality. "We're most theyah, honey," Jim reassured her. "But you'uns 'ill have to climb down while we take the wagon apart and lowah the pieces oveh the ledges with ropes." She lowered the yawning baby into his father's arms. "Walk about whilst I unpack, honey," he urged, setting her on her feet. She found a winding trail, worn smooth by the tread of moccasined feet. It led up to a lonely knoll, fluted and carved by age-long sculpturing of wind and rain. It formed a natural lookout, commanding the sweep of a country so vast one could only guess at its magnitude. Far to the south the hazy peaks of the Parashaunts melted into the misty sky. They seemed unfriendly and remote. Even the ridges to the west, like a giant steamboat plowing through clouds of foam, seemed but a shattered pile of rocks discarded by indifferent hands. Below, yawned the barren wastes of the desert cut through by the crimson flood of the river. She turned, hopelessly, to the north and?there was her mountain, rising above the crimson knolls in solitary splendor, girdled with pines that marched to its snowy crest, dimpled with little valleys that awakened memories of the almost forgotten homeland. Hot tears sprang to her eyes. All the old fears and bitter prejudices dropped away like a discarded garment. A healing peace enveloped her. The wind, pungent with sage and mesquite, swept up from the valley floor, singing through the fluted towers and pinnacles, calling to her, begging her to listen to the voice of the desert. "We are the everlasting hills, broken and sifted for your coming, O you strong ones!" they whispered. "We have grown hungry for the plowshare, thirsty for the harnessed waters of yonder river. Only the strong and fearless can subdue us. From our loins the fig tree and the vine shall spring, the pomegranate redden. Endure to the end, you faithful, that your children and your children's children may reap the harvest of your vision." She heard as only those who strive to love the desert can hear and understand. She began to hum in unison with the hidden chorus, and as she sang its message clarified within her heart. She saw Jim climbing up over the ledges to find her, the old proud look rekindling in his eyes as she ran down the trail toward him. LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 10?Brigham Young's Call to Leadership Dr. H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, November 6, 1945 Objective: To show the power of leadership under God. A N erect, broad-shouldered man in the vigor of his early forties stood one August afternoon in the year 1844 to address a multitude of saints. There were pain and anxiety in the faces that looked up at him, and a silence known only when the great moments of life hush human hearts. He began: Attention all! This congregation makes me think of the days of King Benjamin, the multitude being so great that all could not hear. I request the brethren not to have any feelings for being convened this afternoon, for it is necessary; we want you all to be still and give attention that all may hear. Let none complain because of the situation of the congregation, we will do the best we can (D. H. C., Vol. VII, page 252). Rows upon rows of men bearing the Priesthood of God appeared in order according to their various quorums. As of one mind they listened. Here was a man, a courageous leader, who had cut short his recent missionary assignment to the East to hasten home. His friends Page 498 needed him, for they, too, had heavy hearts like his. "Brother Joseph," their Prophet, lay dead, his voice was stilled, his sight taken. He had been their voice and their sight these many years. Who now was to hear the voice of the Lord and speak? Martyred while yet in his thirties, how could the people of this modern seer be expected to think so soon of the days when another would be appointed to lead the Church? That time had now come with shocking reality, and, within the hours of the day before them, there was a decision to be made. Would the Church be lead by a "guardian" or a president? It was Brigham Young who now stood before the assemblage to help the saints in their hour of decision. There was a firmness in his voice and a strength in his delivery which was so needed at this hour. Sidney Rigdon, who had spoken at the morning session of this August 8th conference, seemed too sure of his position as the rightful "guardian to build the church unto Joseph," LESSON DEPARTMENT 499 as he put it, to satisfy the hunger in the hearts of the saints. Yet Rigdon was a counselor to Joseph and had been with the Prophet during many of the most marvelous manifestations of the early years of the Church. Surely his claim to leadership could not be overlooked. But somehow the people felt the need of the voice that could speak the mind and will of the Lord on this most significant point, and Brother Rigdon had lost most of that sweet spirit so present among those in perfect fellowship. He had, because of his self interests, left Nauvoo for Pittsburgh sometime before the martyrdom of the Prophet (Doc. And Gov. 124:108-9). The saints could not but feel that his return now at this most critical hour of the Church had something of the opportunist element in it. In the afternoon of August 7 at 4 P. M., the day before the open-air gathering above described, there was held a meeting of the Church authorities at Nauvoo. A majority of the Quorum of the Twelve was present, together with the high council, the high priests, and the seventies. President William Marks of the Nauvoo Stake prayed, and President Brigham Young called upon Sidney Rigdon to speak, who said: The object of my mission is to visit the saints and offer myself to them as a guardian, I had a vision at Pittsburgh, June 27th. This was presented to my mind not as an open vision, but rather a continuation of the vision mentioned in the Book of Doctrine and Covenants. It was shown to me that this Church must be built up to Joseph,... And I must come to Nauvoo and see that the Church is governed in a proper manner. Joseph sustains the same relationship to this Church as he has always 'done. No man can be the successor of Joseph. The kingdom is to be built up to Jesus Christ through Joseph; there must be revelation still. The martyred Prophet is still the head of this Church; every quorum should stand as you stood in your washings and consecrations. I have been consecrated a spokesman to Joseph, and I was commanded to speak for him. The Church is not disorganized though our head is gone. We may have a diversity of feelings on this matter. I have been called to be a spokesman unto Joseph, and I want to build up the Church unto him; and if the people want me to sustain this place, I want it upon the principle that every individual shall acknowledge it for himself. I propose to be a guardian to the people; in this I have discharged my duty and done what God has commanded me, and the people can please themselves whether they accept me or not (D. H. C. Vol. VII, pp. 229-230). At the conclusion of Brother Rigdon's remarks. President Brigham Young rose to his feet and said: I do not care who leads the Church, even though it were Ann Lee; but one thing I must know, and that is what God says about it. I have the keys and the means of obtaining the mind of God on the subject. I know there are those in our midst who will seek the lives of the Twelve as they did the lives of Joseph and Hyrum. We shall ordain others and give the fulness of the priesthood, so that if we are killed the fulness of the priesthood may remain. Joseph conferred upon our heads all the keys and powers belonging to the Apostleship which he himself held before he was taken away, and no man or set of men can get between Joseph and the Twelve in this world or in the world to come. How often has Joseph said to the Twelve, "I have laid the foundation and you must build thereon, for upon your shoulders the kingdom rests." The Twelve, as a quorum, will not be permitted to tarry here long; they will go RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST 1945 abroad and bear off the kingdom to the nations of the earth, and baptize the people faster than mobs can kill them off. I would like, were it my privilege, to take my valise and travel and preach till we had a people gathered who would be true. My private feelings would be to let the affairs of men and women alone, only go and preach and baptize them into the kingdom of God; yet, whatever duty God places upon me, in his strength I intend to fulfill it. I want to see this people, with the various quorums of the priesthood, assembled together in special conference on Thursday next at 10 a.m. (Ibid. page 230). A comparison of these two speeches strikingly shows the difference between leadership subservient to the will of the Lord and that prompted by the power of pride and self-esteem. The Savior pointed the way when he said, "... Not my will, but thine, be done" (Luke 22:42); "... Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister" (Matt. 20:26). God blesses the leader and increases his powers of leadership if he will but be humble and seek instructions from the mind of the Lord. As if having accepted the spirit of Brigham Young on this day, the Lord miraculously manifested his will concerning this man who was to follow in the footsteps of Joseph. Before the assembled saints, that August afternoon, President Young spoke. The spirit of inspiration was his: Heretofore you have had a Prophet as the mouth of the Lord to speak to you, but he has sealed his testimony with his blood, and now, for the first time, are you called to walk by faith, not by sight.... I now wish to speak of the organization of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. If the Church is organized, and you want to know how it is organized, I will tell you. I know your feelings?do you want me to tell your feelings...? The Twelve are appointed by the finger of God. Here is Brigham, have his knees ever faltered? Have his lips ever quivered? Here is Heber and the rest of the Twelve, an independent body who have the keys of the priesthood?the keys of the kingdom of God to deliver to all the world: this is true, so help me God. They stand next to Joseph, and are as the First Presidency of the Church. (See Doc. And Gov. 107:23-24.) I do not know whether my enemies will take my life or not, and I do not care, for I want to be with the man I love. You cannot fill the office of a prophet, seer and revelator: God must do this. You are like children without a father and sheep without a shepherd. You must not appoint any man at our head; if you should, the Twelve must ordain him. You cannot appoint a man at our head; but if you do want any other man or men to lead you, take them and we will go our way to build up the kingdom in all the world. I know who are Joseph's friends, and who are his enemies. I know where the keys of the kingdom are, and where they will eternally be. You cannot call a man to be a prophet; you cannot take Elder Rigdon and place him above the Twelve; if so, he must be ordained by them.... Brother Joseph, the Prophet, has laid the foundation for a great work, and we will build upon it; you have never seen the quorums built one upon another. There is an almighty foundation laid, and we can build a kingdom such as there never was in the world: we can build a kingdom faster than satan can kill the saints off.... I will ask, who has stood next to Joseph and Hyrum? I have, and I will stand next to him. We have a head, and that head is the Apostleship, the spirit and power of Joseph, and we can now begin to see the necessity of that Apostleship (Ibid. pp. 232-235). It was during this inspiring speech that the transfiguration of Brigham Young occurred. The late President George Q. Cannon wrote of this event: If Joseph had arisen from the dead and again spoken in their hearing, the effect could not have been more startling than LESSON DEPARTMENT 501 it was to many present at that meeting; it was the voice of Joseph himself; and not only was it the voice of Joseph which was heard, but it seemed in the eyes of the people as if it were the very person of Joseph which stood before them. A more wonderful and miraculous event than was wrought that day in the presence of that congregation we never heard of. The Lord gave his people a testimony that left no room for doubt as to who was the man chosen to lead them. In the Journal of Elder William C. Staines of the date of August 8, 1844, AXA following statement is recorded: "Brigham Young said: 'I will tell you who your leaders or guardians will be?the Twelve?I at their head.' This was with the voice like the voice of the Prophet Joseph. I thought it was he, and so did thousands who heard it. This was very satisfactory to the people, and a vote was taken to sustain the Twelve in their office, which with a few dissenting voices, was passed." Wilford Woodruff described the event as follows: "If I had not seen him with my own eyes, there is no one that could have convinced me that it was not Joseph Smith, and anyone can testify to this who was acquainted with these two men" (Deseret Evening News, March 12, 1892). At the conclusion of President Young's remarks, Amasa Lyman, W. W. Phelps, and Parley P. Pratt spoke; then a vote was taken on the question as to whether the saints should have a "guardian" as a leader or the Twelve as the head who rightfully stood in line of authority next to the First Presidency. The hands raised showed a universal vote for the Twelve. In this manner the apostles, who were the rightful authorities according to the revelations of the Lord, were sustained by the vote of the people and by common consent, as the Lord had commanded that all things should be done. The matter of succession was' properly and rightfully decided, and was now binding on the members of the Church (Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, page Sidney Rigdon and William Marks were hurt by the action taken that day, and later found themselves outside the favor of the Church. Rigdon returned to Pittsburgh, Marks drifted away to Beaver Island in Lake Michigan where he joined the followers of James J. Strang. Both men were excommunicated. Brigham Young, having met the qualifications of leadership, was to go forward with the saints. Under the power of his office and endowed with wisdom from on high this great leader was to raise "up an ensign on the mountains" (Isa. 18:3) unto which all nations were to flow. Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggested readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, read the question; second, read the assigned part of the Doctrine and Covenants to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word" which has been written especially for us in this day. 1. Who took the presidency of the Church of Jesus Christ in the meridian of time after the Savior left the earth? Read Doc. And Cov. Commentary, pages 307-308. 2. How long in advance of the death of the Prophet Joseph did the Lord give word as to how the Church leadership would be carried on? Read Doc. And Cov. 43:1-7; also page 819 Doc. And Cov. Commentary. Doc. And Cov. 90:4; 107:24; 103:15-18. 3. What do you know as to the character of Brigham Young? Read Doc. And Cov. 126, also pages 983-984 Doc. And Cov. Commentary. 4. Compare the words of Brigham Young and Sidney Rigdon found in this lesson from the point of view of leadership under God. Visiting Teachers' Messages sources of Strength?Charity Lesson 2?"Charity Suffereth Long and Is Kind" Dr. Lowell L. Bennion For Tuesday, November 6, 1945 Objective: To inspire patience and kindness in our human relations. THE most beautiful story of and is ?charity that suffereth long and is kind" to be found in all literature we believe, is Jesus' "Parable of the Prodigal Son."
Imagine the father's suffering when his younger son said to him (after he had worked and saved all his days for his children), "Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me." The father may well have guessed how his younger son would waste "his substance in riotous living." When the boy "came to himself" and started home, penitent, his father saw him "when he was yet a great way off." Seeing him, he had every right to rebuke him, to remind him of his folly and sins, to crush him in his shame, but instead he "had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him." But let us not forget either that to his older son he said, "All that I have is thine." While the younger came back repentant, he did not share again.
Why was the father so long-suffering and kind? Because he was thinking not of his own wounded self but of the lad's life. The only thing that mattered now was that his son had come "to himself"? that "this my son was dead, and alive again; he was lost, and is found" (Luke 15:11-32). There is no more effective way to express charity than in kindness. Many people have no need of material help, which, anyway, is soon exhausted. Physical resources, too, are definitely limited. Yet there is no one who is not in need of kindness. And kindness, like all spiritual gifts, such as knowledge, love, and mercy, increases with giving.
Children need, above all things, kindness and love. Living in a world organized largely for the comfort, convenience, and advantage of grownups, they often live in fear of harsh words, scoldings, spankings, or indifference.
A friend told us of an ideal family where there were a large number of children, happy, cooperative, free from quarreling and wrangling. We asked her how she explained the success.
She replied, "I don't know, but their mother never raises her voice." This suggests strongly that the mother's charity includes patience and kindness.
Does kindness preclude discipline at home or in church work? Not at all! Discipline has the same root as disciple, which means learn, that is, to be a follower. The only effective discipline of a child's moral or spiritual nature is one which is preceded, followed, and surrounded with kindness. And kindness is born of charity and love.
Literature
The Bible in Our Literature
Lesson 2?How the Bible Is Woven into Our Literature
Dr. Howard R. Driggs
For Tuesday, November 25, 1945
SOME college students, taking a course in literature teaching, were stirred to active discussion one day by this statement from their instructor: "A good working knowledge of the Bible is absolutely essential to success in the teaching of our English and American literature."
"But we are not allowed to teach the Bible in the public schools," came a response.
"Not from any sectarian viewpoint," said the instructor. "It would be un-American to do so. Yet, how can our literature be adequately taught without constant reference to the Bible?"
"I am not sure just what you mean," said another student.
"Well, let us put some concreteness into the explanation. Most of you are teachers of literature. What are some selections you are called on to teach?"
"Evangeline," "Vision of Sir Launfal," "L'Envoi," "Snow-bound," came replies.
"They will serve our purpose," said the instructor. "Listen carefully now to some lines from the poems named:
And as she gazed from the window, she saw serenely the moon pass Forth from the folds of a cloud, and one star follow her footsteps, As out of Abraham's tent young Ishmael wandered with Hagar. ?"Evangeline," (Part III), Longfellow
Daily, with souls that cringe and plot, We Sinne climb and know it not. ?"Vision of Sir Launfal," Lowell
They shall find real saints to draw from? Magdalene, Peter, and Paul; They shall work at age at a sitting, and never get tired at? ?"L'Envoi," Kipling
"Take, eat," he said, "and be content, These fishes in my stead are sent By Him who sent the tangled ram, To spare the child of Abraham." ?"Snowbound," Whittier
"How can any of these, or hundreds of other lines containing like allusions, be explained without a knowledge of the Bible?"
"But aren't those examples somewhat old-fashioned?" asked a student.
"Your question seems to imply that modern authors are not weaving
the Bible into their creations. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST 1945 Well, here is a volume called Contemporary Verse. Perhaps it will help us to find an answer. Glancing through its table of contents I find a few titles that recall interesting hues: Poems are made by fools like me, But only God can make a tree. ?"Trees," Joyce Kilmer They gave their merry lives away For Country and for God. ?"Spires of Oxford," Winifred Betts And he who loves the least of these (And here I say and here repeat) Shall win himself an angel's pleas For mercy at my judgment seat. ?"The Outlaw," Robert Service Thank God for a world where none may shirk, Thank God for the splendor of work. ?"Work," Angela Morgan America! Americal God mend thine every flaw. Confirm thy soul in self control, Thy liberty in law. ?"America the Beautiful," Katharine Lee Bates Give them this for the morrow's meat, Then shall we feast in accord; Our half a loaf will then be sweet. Sweet as the bread of the Lord! ?"How Oswald Dined with God," Edwin Markham No one knows what will happen next, such portents fill the days and nights; Years prophetical! ?"Years of the Modern," Walt Whitman OK I go wherever men may dare, I go wherever woman's care And love can live? Wherever strength and skill can bring Surcease to human suffering Or solace give. ?"The Red Cross Spirit Speaks," John H. Finley Are not these lines from recent poetry all linked with the Bible? Joyce Kilmer's artistic tribute to God's surpassing power of creation; the touching lines of Winifred Betts to merry-hearted youth giving their all for country and for God; the use of precious words from the Savior by Robert Service; the gratitude expressed by Angela Morgan for God-given work?all clearly show that source of inspiration. In the prayer of Katherine Lee Bates for America?vital today and always ?that our liberty be preserved in Law, we feel the Bible spirit. It vibrates also in the lines of Edwin Markham, picturing a king sharing with the poor; and in Walt Whitman's words, so applicable to the living present. In John H. Finley's tribute to the Red Cross, one feels the helpful, courageous spirit of the Savior. In much of the literature of today the heart of the Good Samaritan vibrates. Such expression of gospel service is surely Bible-inspired. Of course, these illustrations from more modern poetry are somewhat different from those cited from earlier poets. Fashions change in literature as in other things; yet the constants are ever present. When the Bible came, it brought certain of these constants: reverence for God, charity, humility, service, sacrifice, a more democratic spirit, and other spiritual gifts for our salvation. It was like the pouring of a river, limpid and pure, into the old turbid stream of life. All our art expression since then has been clarified, enriched, inspirited by the divine contribution. LESSON DEPARTMENT 505 This is shown in both tangible and intangible changes wrought in our literature. As aleady illustrated, authors, particularly those of earlier years, made many more direct allusions to stories and characters of the Bible. It was the enriching thing to do. When Lowell, for example, says that daily "We Sinais climb and know it not," his line brings back the story of Moses going up into the mountain to commune with God. The poet also suggests that, without knowing it, we get close to God each day. To understand the inner meaning of this allusion, one must know the Bible story that lies back of it. Another tangible way the Bible is woven into lines of literature is by use of Biblical expressions-words, phrases, and even sentences. How deeply indebted our language is to this contribution may be more clearly realized by something of a comparison of literature today with that of pre-Bible days. Go back to the Northland myths for illustration. In these tales one finds a goodly number of words suggestive of brute strength, skill with weapons of trickery, cunning, deceit, of feasting, drinking, carousing, of giants, sorcery, mystery. Few, if any, words are found expressive of charity, meekness, kindliness, benevolence, tolerance, forgiveness, brotherhood, holidays (holy days). These, and like expressions of gospel import, came into our mother tongue largely through the Bible. Less tangible than words and allusions, yet even more vital, are the changes wrought through the influence of the Bible on the inner spirit of literature. It brought what may well be called a leavening effect on all forms of art. More hope, more joy, more faith, more whole-someness came to the varied kinds of expression. Naturally, literature was lightened and brightened and given added meaning and purpose by this spiritualizing force. With much of our great literature this infusion of new warmth and life and strength is to be felt rather than seen. Bible thought and themes are often so deftly woven into the creation by the author that, unless one is well-schooled in scripture, the close connection might be missed. Yet the stirring lessons of truth are there. It is the artistry of authorship not to preach them, but to portray them. In further studies, an interesting quest will be to find some of these Bible messages at the heart of time-tested literature. True it is that certain writers reveal precious little of Bible influence in what they produce. With cynical disregard of that source of inspiration, they have gone their own irreverent ways. Sometimes they create daring, cleverly-written literature, which, for the moment, wins wide attention. Then it as suddenly flickers out, as all such creations, if unsound and unwholesome, are almost sure to do. Folk may read, but few reread literature of that type. Our conviction is that authors do their finest, most lasting work when they are true to truth, when they produce that which is clean and artistic, when they help to overcome evil with good. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST 1945 There is no call here for "preach-iness" in literature; neither is there any exclusion of choice literature created for wholesome entertainment. Happily, we have many delightful creations which open our eyes and ears to the beauties of nature, to the joys of childhood, to home pleasures and uplifting friendships. Some of the selections help to cultivate in us a clean sense of humor, to get more pure enjoyment out of life. Outwardly or inwardly this literature may make no reference to the Bible; yet the spirit of goodness and wholesome fun is in it, and truly we need it to add a bit of leaven to our days. Something more than just this lightsome literature is also needed for our upbuilding. That is the literature which brings real re-creation. Such literature, as already portrayed, leaves us both mentally and spiritually uplifted. It brings to us lessons of truth and light. It leads us along paths of righteousness. It is Bible-inspired. Discussion and Activities 1. Why is a knowledge of the Bible essential in the study of English and American literature? Be ready with an illustration to prove the point. 2. (a) What is meant by a Biblical allusion? (b) Make your meaning clearer by giving in brief the incident or meaning suggested by each of the following expressions: "like showers of manna"; "toiling up new Calvaries"; "our Lord's beatitudes"; "in Eden's delight"; "like the Patmos saint." 3. (a) Join with the class in making a list of twenty or more words other than those given in this lesson, which probably have come into our language through the Bible, (b) What in a spiritual sense is indicated by this enrichment of our vocabulary? 4. In what other vital way than by allusions and words has the Bible influenced our literature? Illustrate. 5. What type of literature may show no such Biblical influence and yet be of value in our lives? Give illustrations. 6. What are some of the spiritual qualities that characterize literature that brings not only entertainment, but re-creation? Name one selection that you feel has these qualities. 7. Point out, with illustrations, a difference in the way authors of earlier times and today reflect the Bible influence in their writings. Science Modern Applications of Moral Principles Lesson 9?Problems of Personal Conduct Dr. Harold T. Christensen For Tuesday, November 27, 1945 Lesson link: We attempted last time to apply the moral principle of brotherhood to several specific social situations. It was shown how prejudice and animosity lead toward patterns of discrimination and persecution in the modern world. Religious intolerance was used as an example of the contemporary moral crisis in both Christianity and democracy. Lesson aim: To stress the importance of personal cleanliness, balanced conduct, and self-control to the good life. IT has been said earlier that the good life depends upon both personal and social factors; that the highest morality, which results in the greatest joy, comes from individual health and advancement plus love and service oriented toward others. Last month we looked at the brotherhood principle and examined a few of its perversions. This time we will turn attention to some of the moral problems of personal conduct.
Life is a process of continual adjustment to new situations, and where individuals lag or fail in their adjustment, personal and social problems result. Since the best adjustment means the most progress and the greatest happiness, anything short of the best possible adjustment is wrong. But adjustment is difficult, and there seems to be an all too-common human tendency to dodge that which is hard and remote in favor of the easy way leading to immediate thrills. Hence the prevalence of human suffering. When the energies of man become dissipated in the attempt to circumvent truth and escape consequences, opportunities are missed and misery ensues. It is to some of these dissipations leading to personal maladjustment and unhappiness that attention is now turned.
Drugs
The use of narcotics produces a temporary sense of pleasantness or well-being and permits the sufferer to forget for awhile his mental fears and conflicts. It is perhaps this element of escape from unpleasant reality that explains the rather wide
The proportion of the population addicted to the more serious drugs such as opium, heroin, morphine, and cocaine, is probably not very large; although occasionally we read of "dope rings" being uncovered and some authorities estimate that there are more than one million addicts in this country alone. Sometimes the habit is picked up innocently such as through the use of sleeping pills, pain-killers, or patent medicines. In using narcotic medicines, even under a doctor's prescription, great care should be exercised to use them moderately and only as absolutely needed. Once the habit is formed, the user's system has then become conditioned to the drug and he is a virtual slave to its use. Addiction to the use of drugs frequently results in poverty, ill-health, and crime, and the cure, if any be possible, requires rather long and expensive treatment at the hands of the psychiatrist.
A more serious problem than the taking of opiates and cocaine is the smoking of marijuana cigarettes?more serious because this drug is consumed largely by the young, because its results are particularly demoralizing, and because it may be even more widespread than the other practices. Under the influence of marijuana, restraint, moral judgment, and self-control are gone, and acts are frequently indulged in that head the boy and girl toward degradation. Marijuana comes from an innocent looking weed, and although many states by now have laws attempting its control, its suppression is proving particularly difficult. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?AUGUST 1945 The taking of caffeine, nicotine, and other narcotic substances into the body through the use of certain drinks and through smoking is also habit forming and body harming. Our Church literature is replete with good material on these subjects. (See section 89 of the Doctrine and Covenants, and consult also some of the many articles and chapters on the Word of Wisdom found in the magazines and books of the Church.) Drink Just as drug addiction is an attempted escape from unpleasant reality and a crutch for unstable characters, so also is the use of alcoholic beverages. People who drink do so, for the most part, to forget the unpleasantries of life and to thereby capture the thrills of the moment. They fail to remember that no one can really escape life; he can only shut his eyes for awhile, stumble, and get behind in the race. The magnitude of the liquor problem is alarming. Some three or four billion dollars go into this industry in America each year, and, since alcohol is not a necessity, most of this is wasted money. But the greatest waste is human waste. Families are neglected and abused; lives are dissipated and shortened; accidents are increased, resulting in the death and maiming of many; morals are relaxed and crimes increased, particularly sex crimes; insanity very frequently overtakes the one so indulging. This human wreckage resulting from drink in the modern world, when all brought together, does not make a pretty picture. People who drink "to be a good sport" or because they think it is "smart" should remember that sportmanship without principle is a mirage, and that always the smart thing to do is the right thing. Those who drink to "forget" should remember that their euphoria is but illusionary and that in so behaving they only build up a vicious circle, for they only create more bad memories that they will want to forget. Gambling In one sense life is a gamble, for it is so filled with uncertainties and anomalies and it requires so much faith and courage to see it through. But there is a vast difference between this courage in the face of uncertainties in the struggle upward and the willful play on chance for the purpose of getting something for nothing; the one gives evidence of faith and results in effort and progress, while the other is based on selfishness and laziness alone. This "something for nothing" philosophy of life, coupled with the idea that "only the foolish work," makes of gambling an escape device designed to side-step morals for the sake of money. Large scale gambling involving cards, roulette wheels, and such, is illegal in most states; but illegal or not it finds ways of functioning under cover in many of the nation's "best" communities. Hidden from the police or "protected" by city officials, professional gamblers in especially prepared rooms encourage the gullible to participate in these nefarious activities; and through techniques well known to themselves, make sure that the "house" gets a heavy cut out of the winnings. LESSON DEPARTMENT 509 The spirit of gambling, once it has taken hold of a person, is like a narcotic or a liquor in its deadening and maddening effects. The thrill of an occasional win is enough to tide over several substantial losses and, in this way, keep the losing spiral going viciously downward until the participant's money is all gone. Always there is the thought, the desperate hope, that next time he can beat the game and then he will stop; but next time he loses once more, or, if he should win, there is the untempered greed that won't let him quit. Parents and community workers (and all parents should be vitally and actively interested in the welfare of the community) will do well to realize that the road to gambling frequently starts at the juvenile "joint" where there are marble games and slot machines to whet the appetite of the young. If these could be cleaned out or changed to eliminate the pay-off feature, as some of our communities have been farsighted enough to do, a great step in moral progress would be made. But this is not all. In addition, parents should teach their children that all things worth while cost effort, honestly and honorably given. Unchastity Sex life motivated by love and protected by marriage is sanctioned by society and blessed by deity. It is the misuse of sex that is immoral; practices impelled by selfish lust and irresponsible exploitation. That which is beautiful and sacred is too frequently cheapened and defiled by means of the vulgar remark, the smutty story, the erotic show, the lewd magazine, et cetera. Vulgarity is the profanity of virtue. When sexual irregularities are carried beyond the mental, the verbal, and the visual into the realm of overt conduct, the moral issue involved becomes particularly great. Unchastity, whether in premarital relations or extramarital relations after marriage, presents one of the most serious moral problems of the day. The following are some of the most important reasons for maintaining chastity: (1) It is a commandment of God. (2) It is sanctioned by society. The social stigma leveled by society against the offender often results in loss of both social position and employment, which is a high price to pay for a reckless moment. (3) It is necessary for mental health and peace of mind. The worries, fears, and guilt feelings connected with unchastity are sometimes enough to cause frustrations leading to chronic unhappiness, nervousness, and even psychosis. (4) It is important from the standpoint of physical health. The venereal diseases, resulting largely from sexual promiscuity, are among the most loathsome and miserable ailments of man. (5) It safeguards against premarital pregnancy followed by induced abortion, illegitimacy or forced marriage. (6) It is compatible with happy and successful marriage. In any number of ways unchastity may interfere with emotional and sexual adjustment in marriage. Statistical studies bear out the fact that those marriages are most successful where both partners have been chaste before the ceremony. To a Latter-day Saint there is no question of a double standard. Chastity is expected of the man and woman alike.
Excesses
Balance is a virtue that many, in their zeal to stress one certain point or principle fail to reach. Overemphasis on one thing usually means underemphasis on others, with the result that the total is misshapen. Things that are good in and of themselves are bad when overindulged in. Food, for example, is good, but overeating is a vice; fasting is a rich spiritual experience, but overfasting may lead to physical harm; athletics are good as exercise, but overtraining may burn the body out. It is possible to have too much of a good thing.
Because of this, it becomes ever so important that we learn to "see life steadily and as a whole." Distorted reality is, for all practical purposes, falsehood; and it leads to misdirected, abortive living.
In the field of personal conduct temperance is the keystone to virtue. The best way is the middle way. Life should be active, but in a balanced, harmonious way rather than impetuous or distorted. Steady is the word.
Anti-social Behavior
Every individual is an intrinsic part of society, and because of this it is impossible to make any clearcut distinction between public and private morals. All of these personal standards of which we have the lesson are harmful to society as well
as to the individuals who themselves indulge. Drinking, for example, may mean neglect of family, and unchastity may ruin two lives and bring sorrow to many others. Some people argue that, "What I do is my own business," but any thinking person can see that this is not true. We are our brother's keeper and our personal habits as well as our social acts affect profoundly those around us.
Anti-personal behavior then, is also anti-social behavior.
But some people go farther than this, and either thoughtlessly or willfully work against the best interests of the larger group. This is not the place to enter into any detailed analysis of crime and delinquency, but it is to be noted that the problem is extensive and that it is always greatest when personal disorganization is widespread, such as, for example, in time of war. Unless personal conduct can be made to be "right" in so far as the individual is concerned, and also right in the sense that it is directed toward the welfare of society, the standards of a higher morality will continue to be missed. It is the social slant in personal conduct that provides the highest moral test.
The Way Out
But regardless of how serious the problem may be, there is always a way out for those who are willing to plot the ground. There are too many today who, discouraged or blinded by the distance life has fallen, decide to lie there or even slip deeper rather than exert themselves for a better future. Life is
eternal, and progress is endless for those who climb; and every man can climb regardless of the point from which he must start. LESSON DEPARTMENT 511 The way out of the blind alleys in which many find themselves today is the way of repentance. Repentance is the key by which man can be unshackled from the follies of the past and the weaknesses of the present. More of us need to get the forward point of view. After a mistake has been made, as regrettable as it may be, it is then the future that is important. The past should be forgotten as rapidly as it can be atoned for. But repentance requires in addition to (i) remorse, both (2) restitution, and (3) reform; it is not enough to feel sorry, but the wrong done must be righted and the tendency to do wrong must be corrected. Man should learn to accept his mistakes as his own rather than projecting them upon society or the 'devil; and he should learn to repent, face the situation, throw away his crutches, and with his head up look and work for a better life. Problems for Thought and Action 1. Do you see any relationship between private and public morality? Explain. Show how the private behavior patterns discussed in this lesson affect others in society as well as the offender. 2. Analyze the major causes and effects of (a) drug addiction, (b) alcoholism, (c) gambling, and (d) unchastity. 3. Why is excess, or lack of balance, a moral problem? Discuss. Defend the "middle way" as a way of life. Does this justify the moderate use of tobacco, alcohol, et cetera? Why not? 4. What is meant by anti-social conduct? Are crime and delinquency immoral? Why? 5, What is the way out for the problem of personal conduct discussed in this lesson? Can you make any additional suggestions, being a little more specific, perhaps, than lesson space permitted here? What does repentance involve? Would you say that repentance is necessary to a moral life? Discuss pro and con. Selected References Standard Works: Bible: Exodus 20; Psalms 51:10; Proverbs 20:1; Acts 3:19; Romans 8:6-13; I Peter 2:11; James 1:12-15, 27. Book of Mormon: Alma 42:21-28. Doctrine and Covenants 1:32-33; 89. Writings by L. D. S. Authors: Talmage, James E., The Vitality oi Mormonism (Boston: Gorham Press, 1919), "Unchastity, the Dominant Evil," pp. 217-220; "On the Devil's Ground," PP- 349-352. Smith, Joseph Fielding, The Way to Perfection (Salt Lake City: Genealogical Society of Utah, 1935), "The Law of Chastity," pp. 232-239. Bennion, Milton, Moral Teachings of the New Testament (Salt Lake City, Utah: Deseret Book Co., 1928), "Temperance," pp. 163-168. Christensen, Harold T., "Foundations of Successful Marriage," The Relief Society Magazine, Vol. 28 (October 1941), pp. 716-722. Christensen, Harold T., "Social Effects of Alcohol," The Relief Society Magazine, Vol. 29 (August 1942), pp. 524-527. Muir, Leo J., Flashes horn the Eternal Semaphore (Salt Lake City, Utah: Deseret News Press, 1928), "Dominion Over Self," "Joy Dwells in the Ordinary," pp. 23-40; "He that Soweth to the Flesh Shall of the Flesh Reap Corruption," pp. 65-96. (Now out of print; available in L. D. S. Home or Church libraries.) BEFORE DAWN Beatrice Knowlton Ekman We are to make the attack at dawn, Gray fog from the gray sea's face will rise; Grim is the work we have taken on, Bloody the path that before us lies. Rain-wet, the darkness around us creeps, Silence broods over the sleeping men? A longing for the homeland over me sweeps Where the soul can sing itself free again... * * * The bladed corn gleamed in the noonday heat When I rode away from my father's door. Past the golden fields of the ripened wheat * And beyond the hill... Then this alien shore. Tonight in the darkness my thoughts wing home To the fragrant meadows where killdeers cry... To tree-fringed acres of harrowed loam Under cloud-patterned shadows of western sky... At the wheat field's end I climb the stile To walk in the shade of the locust lane. From the pasture the milch cows slowly file And the sunset reddens the west again. To the east, blue mountains notch the sky And farmlands reach up to the foothill's side. To the west, going home, the gray gulls fly Where the inland waters are crimson dyed. The herd boy fastens the pasture bars And birds in the hedges drowsily fret. The night will be clear with an arc of stars For the west still burns where the sun has set. Through deepening shadows the swift creek flows Splashing the footbridge that sways with the strain; Through lace-curtained windows the lamplight glows On white moths futilely beating the pane... Rain-wet, the darkness around us creeps, Silence broods over the sleeping men? A longing for the homeland over me sweeps Where the soul can sing itself free again.... The Church University offers STANDARD COLLEGE WORK THE YEAR AROUND Make preparations now to attend the Fall Quarter For those who cannot do residence work at the "Friendly School" The Extension Division suggests Home Study Courses BRIGHAM YOUNG UNIVERSITY Provo, Utah MUSIC SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY BLESS THIS HOUSE 15c HOMING?Del Riego 15c MY OWN AMERICA?Wrubel 20c LITTLE OLD GARDEN...15c HOME?Van Steeden 15c AMERICAN PRAYER 15c Abo\re numbers in octavo. Lass 10% discount, plus postage. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 47 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 IDEAS! INSPIRATION! For teachers of Social Science "MORAL TEACHINGS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT" By Milton Bennion Emeritus Professor of Philosophy and Dean of the School of Education, University of Utah, General Superintendent of the Deseret Sunday School Union Board. YOU HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR THIS EDITION ?Mail this coupon ---??- DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple St., P. O. Box 958, Salt Lake City, 10, Utah Please send me copies of Dean Bennion's "Moral Teaching* of the New Testament," at $1.50. Herewith $ Name Address. When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Food CONSERVATION One of America's Greatest Problems The sugar shortage is serious?but with the sugar already allowed or available to home canners, Utah housewives can still put up millions of quarts of fruit?urgently needed for next winter's use! Do all your cooking, canning and sweetening with home-produced "U & I" Sugar. It's perfect for every use. UTAH-IDAHO SUGAR COMPANY 