THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Vol 32 No 11

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford President
Marianne C. Sharp First Counselor
Gertrude R. Garff Second Counselor
Blanche B. Stoddard Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Anna B. Hart
Florence J. Madsen
Evon W. Peterson
Mary G. Judd
Edith S. Elliott
Ann P. Nibley
Leone O. Jacobs
Luella N. Adams
Priscilla L. Evans
Leone G. Layton
Velma N. Simonsen

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Marianne C. Sharp
Editorial Secretary Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 32 NOVEMBER 1945 No. 11

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
Thanks Be to God Christie Lund Coles 643
Excerpts from the Idaho Falls Temple Dedicatory Prayer President George Albert Smith 645
Remembering the Birthday of President Grant 647
Number of Magazine Pages Increased 653
Sports and Utah's Centennial Ab Jenkins 654
Better Book Buying for the Home Dr. Howard R. Driggs 658
Tables That Tell the Christmas Story Vesta P. Crawford 676

FICTION
Dinner at Nora's Martha Robeson Wright 649
The Star Burns Bright Sibyl Spande Bowen 669
You Are Never Alone Norma Wrathall 679
And For Eternity Chapter VI Olive Woolley Burt 685

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 662
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 663
Editorial: The Idaho Falls Temple Dedicated Marianne C. Sharp 664
Notes to the Field: Organizations and Reorganizations of Mission and Stake Relief Societies 666
Attention, Relief Society Choristers 667
Notes from the Field: Special Programs (continued) General Secretary-Treasurer Blanche B. Stoddard 691

LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology: Stakes of Zion Increased Dr. H. Wayne Driggs 695
Visiting Teachers: Charity Doth Not Behave Itself Unseemly Dr. Lowell L. Bennion 699
Literature: Bible Influence as Revealed in Our Drama Dr. Howard R. Driggs 700
Social Science: Women and Morals Dr. Harold T. Christensen 705

POETRY
Autumn Frontispiece Beatrice Knowlton Ekman 641
Seasonal Dott J. Sartori 657
Chrysanthemums Grace M. Candland 661
November Courtney Cottam 661
He Careth For Thee Georgia Moore Eberling 675
Their Trysting Place Winnifred M. Tibbs 690
The Faith I Know Linnie Fisher Robinson 694
Waiting Spring Mabel Jones Gabbott 710
Prayer of Thanks Eva Willes Wangsgaard 711
A Night With the Wind Lottie Hammer Singley 711
Tide Myrtle E. Henderson 712

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914. At the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103. Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 74,000


THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL 32, NO. 11 NOVEMBER 1945 AUTUMN Beatrice Knowlton Ekman Wearing her golden shoes, her flaming shawl And russet gown, Fleet-footed autumn glides through field and town And lone birds call.   From veils of haze, soft purple shadows fall On pastures brown. Where milkweed pods, with fluffed white down, Are prodigal. A hawk hangs motionless upon the sky Above the lane. Where wheel-worn dust, thirsting for drops of rain. Is sifted dry. Hedged farm land spreads a checkered counterpane Of flaxen dye. Where barren fields of furrowed stubble lie.... Winnowed of grain. The Cover: "Turkey Time," Salt Lake Tribune Photograph.  Priscilla" from a painting by George Henry Bougbton Copyright, 1915, by Eugene A. Perry Thanks Be to God Christie Lund Coles O give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good: for his mercy endureth forever. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy (Psalms 107:1-2). RECENTLY, I stood with hundreds of others at a service marking the end of war. Against a sky tinted with the last debate shades of sunset, with one star glistening like a symbol of hope above a back-drop of majestic mountains, I saw the American flag hoisted high upon a flagpole. I watched it flutter... Clean and bright and beautiful beyond utterance above me. I heard the band play "The Star Spangled Banner," and I felt a thrill throughout my entire being. I felt pride and gratitude and humility. I thought of free men all over the world who were witnessing a similar scene and feeling hope reborn within them. I thought how indescribably horrible it must have been for our boys to see that beautiful flag lowered to the dust while an enemy flag took its place. I thought of the prophetic words, '1 shall return," and their triumphant fulfillment. Then I thought of the boys who had given their lives. Some of them I had known since they were small boys with great dreams in their eyes, with great promise in the future. And even as my heart ached for them and for their parents and wives and sweethearts, I felt that could they see the flag as I saw it now, could they hear the band playing, they would feel that it had not been in vain. Most of all, I thought that never should a people have been more humble, more prayerful, more grateful than the people of America should be today. Never should we have felt more to bend the knee and bow the head in thanks and praise, than in this hour of victory and peace. For the terror of the past years is ended, the guns of war have ceased, men are turning again to their plowshares and their normal pursuits. We stand a free people, we stand still a nation victorious, a light unto the whole world, a beacon to peace and good-will. Thanks be to God. Yes, we have done great things, we have preserved liberty as a hope for all the oppressed and downtrodden people everywhere, we have proven that right is more powerful than might. We have come a 'heartthrob nearer to the end of wars.' Surely, no one can doubt the destiny, the supreme power, that has seen us through our dark days. Surely, no one can be too proud, too ungrateful, to kneel and give thanks for the preservation of his home and his God-given rights of freedom and justice, as well as for the gift of life for loved ones, for the future that lies ahead, even as the Pilgrim fathers before us offered thanks for their crops, for their preservation, for the land that had been a refuge. Page 643 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1945 Actually, we are not so different today. After their waiting and anxiety, after their travail and fear, they saw their crops ripen to abundance, saw the fruition of their hopes. They knew that God had seen fit to bless them. For, with all our scientific knowledge, with all our physical and mental accomplishments, how helpless we are, really, with all our learning, how frightened and alone in the presence of death or illness or the unloosed elements. How in need of the humble faith that looks upward and trusts, and gives thanks. Yes, giving thanks is an integral part of prayer. Christ thanked his Father in heaven for manifest blessings. He walked among men with implicit and utter trust. What father could turn a deaf ear to this? And what child is not better and worthier for having the grace of gratitude, for gratefully saying "Thank you," for a favor requested or granted. Many thinkers believe the secret of the miracles Christ was able to perform was his unerring trust in the Eternal Father. He gave praise and thanks, and he had implicit faith; he never for a moment doubted the power of God to do that which was asked in sincerity and tri4st. A person without gratitude is like a tree that is barren of fruit, that receives' bounteously, yet lacks the grace to give of itself in return. There were miracles in this war, many of them; there were strong men who had boasted of their unbelief brought to their knees when they were overcome by adversity beyond human help. We all know of those shipwrecked, thirsting and hungering men who literally saw manna come out of heaven, who saw the sky respond to their need of water when they could bear their thirst no longer. We all know of those miraculously saved in fox-holes, in the air, on the sea. These men were forced to their knees in humility, they came back different men, men purified by prayer and by thanksgiving. We, as individuals, as a nation, as a world, need the purification of these two things: prayer and thanksgiving. So, let us lift up our hearts, let us humble our spirits and be contrite and prayerful, let us thank our Father in heaven that we have been preserved, that we have been given another chance to make a good and a godly world, to find lasting peace, to do away with want and prejudice of race or creed, to live as brothers in the beautiful and bounteous world he has given us. In this time of rich harvest, this time of reunion, of happy homecoming, this time of serious meditation on man's dependence on a higher power, this time of gratefulness for a belief in a life after death, of immortality and eternal progression for those who have so nobly given their lives, let us humbly say. Thanks be to God. Thanks... Be... To God! Be Excerpts from the Idaho Falls Temple Dedicatory Prayer President George Albert Smith r\ thou great and eternal God, Father of our spirits, Creator of the heavens, the earth and all things therein; before whom all things are present, whether past or yet to come; full of mercy and love, guided by wisdom, judgment, and justice in their perfection; in humility and with thanksgiving and with our hearts filled with gratitude unto thee, we approach thee through thy Beloved Son, Jesus Christ, our Elder Brother, who, through the great and exquisite sacrifice wrought out for us, magnanimous beyond our comprehension, made it possible that we might approach thee in humility on this great occasion, with our petitions and supplications, in this House which we have built to thy most holy name. We pray thee that thou wilt cause our hearts to be purified in thy sight and our faith in thee to be multiplied and increased so that our petitions may reach thy holy habitation and be answered in our behalf in accordance with thy infinite wisdom and love, and grant that the blessings we here seek may be fully realized to thy name's honor and glory. We thank thee for having raised up thy servant, Joseph Smith, and that thou didst endow him and inspire him and reveal unto him thy great purposes, and that thou didst manifest thyself and thy Beloved Son unto him, and didst cause holy resurrected beings to minister unto him and to confer upon him the Holy Priesthood after the order of thine Only Begotten Son, and its appendage, the Aaronic Priesthood. We are grateful unto thee for those who now preside over thy Church. We pray that thy servant, George Albert Smith, may be endowed of thee with a vigorous body and mind, with health and strength, and with the spirit of prophecy, seership, revelation and of presidency, and with the ability to magnify thy great and holy name. Bless his faithful counselors, Joshua Reuben Clark, Jr. And David Oman McKay, whom thou hast given to advise him and assist him, that they may possess great wisdom and excellent judgment in all matters pertaining to thy Church. Grant that perfect love and confidence may exist in this thy Presidency that they may be united as one in all things pertaining to thy work. Page 645 Confer upon thy people, and especially upon thy leaders, in all of their various callings, thy precious gifts of love, wisdom, and judgment, knowledge and understanding, faith and the spirit of testimony, light, intelligence and capacity, and every attribute, blessing, gift and qualification either necessary or desirable for them to have and enjoy in order that thy great and important work may go forward to consummate its glorious purpose. Father, wilt thou preserve thy saints in the unity of the faith, in the way of truth, in the bonds of peace, and holiness of life. We pray for the daughters of Zion. May they be preserved in virtue, chastity and purity of life, be blessed with vigorous bodies and minds, and with great faith. May they develop into true womanhood and receive choice companions under the new and everlasting covenant for time and for all eternity in thy temples provided for this priceless privilege and purpose. May they too be privileged to enjoy as the fruits of their union a noble posterity which, we pray thee, may be taught at their mother's knee to believe in thee and in the divine mission of thy Beloved Son. We thank thee, O our Father, that thou didst restore that grand and glorious principle of marriage for eternity, and didst bestow upon thy servant the power to seal on earth and have it recognized in the heavens. We acknowledge this privilege as one of thy most marvelous gifts to us. May all the youth of thy Church come to know of its beauty and of its eternal importance to them, and to take advantage of it when they marry. May they, our Father, on the other hand, realize fully that the glorious opportunity for eternal companionship of husband and wife, and the power of eternal increase, may be forfeited by them if they fail, through negligence or indifference, to conform to thy requirements, or if having taken advantage thereof, they may still, through improper conduct, lose their blessings. Wilt thou, O Father in heaven, remember the Relief Society throughout the length and the breadth of the Church. May those who engage therein, either as officers or teachers, be abundantly rewarded for their unselfish sacrifices, for the services they render, for their acts of mercy and kindness, and for their ministrations to the sick, the needy, and the unfortunate. We pray thee that in their homes and in their responsibilities they may enjoy the rich companionship of thy Holy Spirit. With deep gratitude in our hearts we thank thee that the nations have ceased their warfare and the destruction of human life. We thank thee, O God, for the choice land upon which we reside, and for the marvelous promises thou hast made concerning America, that it should be free from bondage, and from captivity, and from all other nations under Heaven so long as the inhabitants of the land should worship the God of the land who is Jesus Christ. Remembering the Birthday of President Grant THIS November, President Grant would have been eighty-nine years old had his life been spared a few months longer. Members of the Church and a multitude of friends, all over the world will remember President Grant's birthday with gratitude and thanksgiving, appreciating the faithful and inspired service he rendered, his love and kindness that reached beyond his family, beyond his Church, and to an ever-widening circle of friends and associates. Among the hundreds of letters which poured into the homes of President Grant's family, following his demise, there are none which exhibit more reverence for him and more understanding of his true greatness than those written by his grandsons in the armed forces. Excerpts from some of these letters follow: PRESIDENT HEBER J. GRANT Page 647 In Italy, these words were penned to Sister Grant: I'm sure that Grandfather was a great man. His calling as God's servant was evidence that he was one of the Lord's choicest children. I'm thankful tonight for my noble heritage. I'm thankful for having known and loved my Grandfather. I'm thankful for his testimony of the gospel because it has helped me to understand life and the part I should play in it. Many times a person who has achieved greatness is misunderstood and his personal life is very often one of trouble and unhappiness. But such was not the case with Grandfather. One of the greatest joys he experienced was the love and understanding which you and his children have shown him. You created a home, and though sometimes it was in foreign places, it was ever a haven of love and peace where he could come. From Germany, another grandson wrote: It is hard to express one's thoughts at this time. They are intermixed with memories of the greatness and goodness of Grandfather's life and the knowledge that he is now released from a burden which he carried so cheerfully during his last years. Knowing this, we have little cause to mourn. We can only express our gratitude for the wonderful influence he had on our lives and the secure knowledge we have that we will be with him again. An expression written in Panama reads: I have relived a great many of the moments I was privileged to spend in the presence of this truly great man, and in so doing I have been awed at how richly endowed he was with character and personality and a fine zest for living. The greatest lesson he leaves for me is in his unquenchable spirit. My fondest memories of him will be of the times when we drove in the mountains with the top down on the car while he sang with a gusto which came from his deep and abiding love for the natural works of God. All of us whose lives have been touched by his owe him a debt which can be paid only in emulation. In Austria, another grandson had this to say: It is comforting to know that on the other side of the veil the joy of Grandfather's coming back and the joy of those welcoming him back far surpasses the sorrow of those who are left behind and who must part with the one they love. I feel so distant and far away to try to help at a time like this. However, there is always one thing that I can do and that is to go on living so that I may merit what has been given me and, in so 4oing, bring happiness to those who have given me so much. In Newfoundland, these words were penned (again to Sister Grant): I have always been proud that I have known both you and Grandfather. Your perfect family life, your cheerfulness, your generosity, your high standards in everything, make me humble indeed in your presence.... Please remember that I am one of the thousands who loved Grandfather and remember, also, that I love you. Space will not permit an inclusion of more excerpts from these letters, except for one which strikes the keynote of President Grant's greatness, for, after all, it was the gospel which made him great. This letter was written by a grandson in the United States: I have never been able to express how proud and humble I have always felt about having him for a grandfather. If I do my best all my life, I wonder if I'll be worthy of the heritage I have,... Thank God for the gospel of Jesus Christ and the absolute realization it brings that we shall see our beloved Grandfather again. Dinner at Nora's Martha. Robeson Wiight BUT I'm not taking no for an answer,  Maddy  Nora said over the phone. "Ross and I have planned on this Thanksgiving dinner with you and Bruce as usual, and we have the turkey and all the trimmings ready to cook."  I told you I was sorry." Madeline couldn't help it if her voice was listless. Tt isn't any use." Nora made no attempt this time to be diplomatic. "Maddy Pearson, I'm your oldest, and I think your best friend. You're being selfish. Your staying home and refusing to eat isn't helping Tommy any. He wouldn't want you to be that way. And what about Bruce? He might enjoy coming." Madeline closed her brown eyes for a moment and shuddered. "You couldn't possibly understand, Nora," she said wearily, patiently, "I couldn't stand it all of that food on the table. The smell of it... When..." "I understand more than you think," Nora Blake said bluntly, "And I'm still expecting you and Bruce over here for dinner tomorrow." For a second Madeline wanted to scream at her. But she didn't. She hadn't been able to cry since word had come of Tommy's death. She'd tried it. There was pain, tightness, despair. Nora didn't know all of that, and there was no use trying to explain it to her. Instead, she said, "All right, Nora, we'll come. But don't expect me to eat anything. M-my stomach couldn't take it." "Bring your bottle of milk along, then," Nora ordered, "but I want you to be over here tomorrow with Bruce, or or I'll never speak to you again as long as we live," she finished quickly, and hung up. Madeline gasped and placed the receiver on the hook. As long as we live, she thought, as she turned from the phone. That didn't mean a thing. There's nothing to live for now... With Tommy gone.... Bruce was watching her from his easy chair by the radio. Tommy's tragic death didn't seem to affect him as much as it had her. He went about his business with the same cheerfulness as before. His gray eyes were a little less twinkling and his hair had threads of silver, but he seemed the same. Of course, no one could understand how a mother would feel. "That Nora again?" Bruce asked. Madeline nodded and pushed back a strand of brown hair. "She seems to have lost well, all sensitivity of feeling. You'd think she'd try to understand how I feel." Bruce shook his head slowly. "But she's right, you know. And we've had Thanksgiving dinner with her and Ross for twenty years... Since the first year their Jim and our Tommy were born." Madeline winced and her lips curled themselves in a grimace. "You, too?" How could he know the pain inside her heart... Almost unbearable at times? "All people Page 649 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1945 think about is eating... Eating... Filling themselves with rich food..." Bruce got up and began to pace back and forth in the room. "You ve got to face this thing out, Maddy/' he said kindly, "Going without food won't bring Tommy back. Going without food wouldn't have helped him when he was alive in that prison camp, slowly starving to death." She turned on him, fists clenched, mouth contorted. '1 was the first to give him food. I taught him how to eat with a spoon then a fork-how to feed himself. But I couldn't help in that prison camp. I wouldn't have minded so much his dying in battle... That's a kinder way... A quicker way. I see him... Every night... Lying there... Suffering... And thinking of the good food he always had at home. He loved my cooking... I know he must have thought of that... To the very end!" B RUCE stopped pacing and the look he gave her was strange. Almost as if he felt that she was to blame for everything that had happened. "Other mothers have lost their sons, Maddy." She forced herself to look at him intently. "Other mothers? Did their sons die in prison camps?" She caught her breath in a dry sob. Bruce came over and took her hands. "Everything will iron itself out, Maddy, if you'll try. Thanks for telling Nora you'd go. It won't be so bad. We have to learn to start mingling with people." Nora and Ross opened the door and helped them off with their coats. "Sure swell, seeing you folks," Ross said. "You look well, Maddy. The cold's put roses in your cheeks." "On her nose, too," Bruce said, grinning. Madeline shivered, but it wasn't from the cold. How could they be so callous? How could they joke like that when they knew that never again would Tommy be able to spend a Thanksgiving with them. "Come on in the living room," Nora said cheerfully. "We have two other guests I'd like you to meet." Madeline's heart contracted with pain. "Nora, I can't stay, now. I couldn't meet strangers." Ross took a firm hold on her arm. "Oh, yes you can, Madeline. We hadn't intended having anyone else but us, but these kids needed a home on this day of days. We'd have been heels not to have them here, too." "I want you to meet Sergeant Brent Sherwood, and Corporal Bill Benning," Ross said, guiding her to the young men. "Don't get up boys," he added quickly, at their indication of rising. "These boys have been in the hospital," he explained to Madeline. She felt that all the discordant sounds in the world had come into the room and were dinning in her ears. Her head was heavy and her eyes felt out of focus. These young men in uniform became a conglomeration of blurred features; and somehow Tommy's face became mixed in with theirs. She couldn't speak. She wet her lips and tried to keep the terrible pain from making her faint. As from a distance, she heard Ross saying, "Mrs. Pearson hasn't been well for several months, and the difference between DINNER AT NORA'S 651 the cold outside and this warm room has been a httle upsetting." She allowed herself to be led to a chair. She didn't dare look at the young men, who had so courteously acknowledged the introduction. She would have to try to convince Nora that she was too ill to remain if Nora would just come near enough to speak to. But Nora had disappeared into the kitchen. The young men chattered with Bruce and Ross, and through the fog of her grief, Madeline heard them laughing and joking. How could those soldiers laugh and joke like that? Didn't they ever remember the boys who hadn't come back? They were here in this room, whole, hearty, and happy. Gradually, the haze around her cleared and she leaned back against her chair. Nora meant well, and she was fond of her. But Nora's son, Jimmy, pal of Tommy, was still safe, and was coming home soon. Nora came bustling in from the dining room, eyes sparkling, cheeks flushed. "Dinner is served," she said. Ross came over to help Madeline to her feet. Nora went over to the boys. "I intend to have two gentlemen lead me to my table," she said, beaming up at them. She could beam, thought Madeline bitterly. She hasn't lost her son. The taller. Sergeant Sherwood, picked up a cane from beside his chair. Madeline was startled. She hadn't noticed the cane before. It had been lying on the side she couldn't see. "You'll have to wait until I get Bill here up on his new feet," he said grinning. "The guy's all right once he gets on them, but he's only had them two weeks." To her astonishment and inward horror. Sergeant Sherwood tapped his own right leg with his cane, "My old wooden leg makes me awkward without my cane. It's new, too. But Bill here doesn't need a cane, the lucky bloke, once he gets standing." MADELINE couldn't move, but sat fascinated, while Sergeant Sherwood helped Corporal Benning up from the chair... Or tried to. It was evident that Bill was deliberately teasing and trying to make the process more difficult than it really was. With exaggerated grimaces and clowning, with pithy comments, he finally sighed and groaned. "Can't make it. Brent, old man. Guess I'd better go back to the old cash and carry system." Brent Sherwood, almost double with laughter, gave one last heave and pulled Bill Benning to his feet. For a long moment Bill stood there, swaying uncertainly, as a doll does when it has been set on its feet not quite on the straight. Then he gave himself a tiny hitch, and held out his arm gallantly to Nora, and said, "Madam, will you honor me? Old Brent here has all he can do to manage his cane." And Nora, laughing up at him, said, "I am indeed honored. Corporal." They led the way to the dining table, Bill taking careful strides on his new feet. Madeline finally managed to extricate herself from, her chair, clutched Ross's arm and followed, with Sergeant Sherwood and Bruce bringing up the rear. There they sat, around the beautifully decorated table, the immense brown turkey glistening on its silver platter, candlelight throwing a soft glow over all. The two boys made twelve-year-old noises at the turkey. Madeline didn't look at them. On a Thanksgiving day, two years ago, her Tommy, so young, so boyish, so sweet, had done the same thing. And his last Thanksgiving dinner had been rotten fish heads. Tommy... her heart cried.
She toyed with the food on her plate, and the little she put in her mouth was as tasteless as paper. The boys ate like ravenous children, exclaiming, complimenting Nora until she looked as if she'd float to the ceiling if she hadn't been weighted with food.
"Oh, boy! won't I ever remember this dinner," Bill Benning said conceitedly, as Nora served him a slice of mince pie, one of pumpkin, and a piece of fruitcake for the second shelf. "When I get my insurance business going, and get me my wife, the Blakes are coming to our house for dinner. And Trudie had better be been learning to cook."
Bruce said, around a bite of pie, "Where are you going to start this business?"
"In my home town." Bill's tone indicated that anyone was foolish to suggest anywhere else. "I got a girl there. She's full of plans. I have quite a bit saved when you've got a girl at home you don't spend much money except to send her stuff."
MADELINE found herself thinking that this Bill had personality, and that's what it took, as much as business ability, to get ahead in insurance. How could he look forward to a future, though, without feet? She suppressed a shiver. How could a girl...
"My girl says it isn't feet that make the man... and she's right... as if I didn't know," Bill went on. "I can go tramping through the woods... in all kinds of weather... can get my feet frostbitten."
Both boys laughed at this, but Madeline wanted to cry. A boy with no feet probably couldn't play tennis, couldn't dance...
"But what do you plan to do, Sergeant?" Ross asked Brent.
"Oh, I figure a pegleg's good for almost anything. I've got me a big ranch out west. That is, I sent the money to my folks when I was in the hospital, and they bought it for me. I'll raise horses... race some of them, maybe... I like to ride. Always have. Swell setup."
Madeline, for the first time since she arrived, felt the urge to speak directly to them. "You can ride horses?"
He grinned at her. "Yes'm, it'll be a cinch. Great future in the horse business."
"Oh, boy! when this is all over, the future sure is going to be hectic," chuckled Bill, "lots of competition... the spice of life... my dad always says."
"What tells you turn out," Brent scoffed.
As Madeline heard their laughter this time, it didn't shock her as it had at first. A great future, these boys said! How did they know? Their future was filled with handicaps. If Tommy... And sad-denly, she know that Tommy, clean, wholesome Tommy, was taken care of. A boy as fine as he would be in eternity. She realized that Tommy had no handicaps. But these boys had theirs... and their future was facing it. After all of the horror they had been though they still seemed to feel that the world was a wonderful place. If they had been frightened once, they had recovered.MADELINE knew, then, that she hadn't been frightened or grieved because she was feeling sorry for Tommy half as much as she had been feeling sorry for herself. Nora was right. She had been selfish. Her sadness came because she could no longer have the comfort of Tommy's presence, the opportunity to mother him. For the first time since word of Tommy's death, she felt a loosening of the tension and pain within her. Her heart quieted. These boys with their love, their faith, their fearlessness... They had come from blood-drenched battle fields, but they hadn't allowed the suffering to show. They were now thinking of it, not as suffering, but as a ticket of admission into the future. They had learned that they must watch their step; but that didn't mean that they thought the world was hopeless. She remembered when she was young... She could almost hear her grandparents saying that this younger generation was not as stable as the older folk. As people grew older they seemed to become more frightened... Many of them because they weren't strong enough in their faith. She knew now that the future held whatever one wanted it to hold. Bruce had known that... Dear Bruce... But she hadn't allowed him to try to tell her what he knew. For the first time since Tommy was taken prisoner, she felt sure that she could weep. If she were alone she would lie on her bed and let the tears bathe and refresh her awakened heart. But she was not alone. She found herself turning to Sergeant Sherwood and smiling at him. "If you gentlemen are still in this part of the country at Christmas time, my husband and I would like to have you spend Christmas with us." At Nora's pleased start of surprise, she said, "Tou and Ross, too, of course, Nora. And Jimmy will probably be home by that time, too." NUMBER OF MAGAZINE PAGES INCREASED Beginning with this issue, November 1945, eight more pages are being added to The Relief Society Magazine. Paper restrictions, imposed by wartime scarcities, have now been lifted, making it possible for the Magazine to again be published in a larger size. We are indeed happy to take advantage of this opportunity for increasing the scope of our service. It is our hope that the Magazine will be of greater value to the Relief Society organizations in promoting their work, and that the increased variety of the table of contents will appeal to the individual readers. Our purpose will be to provide, so far as possible, practical, cultural, and literary features that will aid in the development of the Latter-day Saint ideal of womanhood. Sports and Utah's Centennial Ab Jenkins Former Mayor of Salt Lake City and holder of more sports' records than any other sportsman. [Prepared at the request of the Church Beautification Committee. DURING Utah's Centennial celebration the much-anticipated postwar "Golden Era of Sports" should be at its height. Both amateur and professional athletics, games, and exhibitions, even now are headed for the biggest boom in history. There will surely be more sports and greater crowds with an all-time record for gate receipts. The impetus for this frenzy was provided by wartime games and recreational promotions.  Salt Lake Tribune Photograph, 1941 HENRY W. RICHARDS AND AB JENKINS IN A 1901 MODEL CAR Page 654 SPORTS AND UTAH'S CENTENNIAL 655  Photograph by Bill Shipler AB JENKINS IN THE "MORMON METEOR" AT THE UTAH SALT FLATS A lot of speeches were made and countless words written concerning the need and importance of sport while the great conflict was on, all of which was quite unnecessary. I have never believed that sport needed any defending. It is a big part of American life the American way. It can stand on its own. There are times when one can "protest too much." There are just three reasons why sport will go on from here to new standards of performance and patronage: 1 "The majority of the people want it. Last year, supposed to be a "flop" year, was one of the biggest in the realm of sports. 2 It is something needed in the way of physical fitness, where to attain any decisive result, it must be based largely upon the competitive side. 3 Sports provide a most useful vehicle for the raising of funds for charities. This was proved during the war. It could do a much bigger job in peacetime with the proper organization. One of the major promotions that was hit hardest during the war was automobile racing. This is one activity which is not only a sport, so far as public interest is concerned, but is of great importance to mechanical research. It is fortunate for our State and our people, that we have, right here, the world's greatest automobile racing course. MORE records have been set on Utah's Bonneville Salt Flats than any other place in the world where sport is projected. None of this activity was indulged in during the war for obvious reasons, but the Utah race course is certain to get a brisk going over from this time on. The developments and advancements of automobile and airplane construction and operation are to come in for still further tests and perhaps much that is valuable to the automobile industry will be revealed. It is reasonably certain that John RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1945 Cobb and Sir Malcolm Campbell, the famous English racers, will come here again with new types of cars and fresh ideas on record breaking. Photograph courtesy A. Lee Christensen SKIING AT ECKER HILL, NEAR PARK CITY, UTAH It was my privilege to help promote their previous appearances here, and I can testify as to the great good they did for Utah and the Bonneville Salt Flats through the favorable impressions they received. I expect to set still more records with a 3400-horse-power car, which will be 1,000 hp. More than any automobile I ever drove. It will also be the lightest of my several racing automobiles. What is planned in automobile racing during the Centennial year. Is typical of what is scheduled in other sports. College football will go big league in Utah that year. It is planned to bring one of the major aggregations of the country, such as Notre Dame, Southern California, or Michigan, to play the University of Utah. Another nationally important eleven will be brought in for Utah State and another for Brigham Young University. The new American Basketball League, in which Salt Lake has taken a franchise through the sponsorship of a club by the Deseret News, plans for the national AAU tournament for the teams of that league SPORTS AND UTAH'S CENTENNIAL and the University of Utah to make a bid for the national collegiate championship. Salt Lake has already been granted the national clay courts tennis tournament for the Centennial, and the Professional Golfers' Association is considering a petition to bring the P. G. A., biggest event in golf, to one of the Salt Lake courses. 657 In baseball, swimming, wrestling, boxing, bicycle riding, rodeo and every game played in Utah, something extraordinary is being planned by the Utah Centennial Sports Committee. From January to December in 1947, Utah will be the sports capitol of the United States.  Photograph courtesy Lesley Goates WINTER SCENE AT "ROMANTIC ALTA." UTAH WILL BE THE SKIING CENTER OF THE WORLD IN 1947 SEASONAL Dott J. Sartori The future is flung upon the couch of fall. The green world's minute infants swaddled tight In sheaths of brown, impervious but small, * To brave the coming winter and the night. Better Book Buying for the Home Dr. Howard R. Driggs FAR more than just books and magazines make a good home library. It takes intelligent planning to create this intellectual and spiritual center of family uplift and recreation. Nor can a lastingly attractive home library be made in a day, a month, or a year. Time and co-operative effort on the part of both parents and children are required. Not much money, comparatively, is necessary to possess a really effective home library. No such initial outlay as that for a piano, an electric or gas range, or even an ordinary' stove, or for rugs and drapes, linen or china, is necessary. Choice books may be had for a few dollars each, or even less  and they can be purchased on the best kind of installment plan one at a time; pay as you go. Why, then, do not more of our homes have good libraries? Why is it that in too many homes, whose possessors are proud to show visitors other choice furnishings, the library is seldom if ever mentioned? Do parents generally appreciate the vital, lasting values in good books? Many do, of course; but it would seem that many more need to cultivate such appreciation in themselves and their children. All of us will profit by giving more earnest thought and study to the problem of creating and using home libraries. Book buying, for the most part, seems now to be a rather hit and miss affair dictated too much Page 658 by what seems popular. This prevalent practice certainly needs changing for the better. Our central purpose in this article is to offer a few practical, forward-pointing suggestions in the spirit of helpfulness to those who would make their home libraries more effective for good. Books, first of all, are silent companions active for good or ill. No right-thinking parent would invite any but wholesome companions into the home; yet unthinking ones often permit books there whose influence is more evil than good. How can it be prevented? Keep closer to the reading matter that absorbs children. Know, so far as you can, your children's books. I This, of course, is not so difficult while the children are young. During their tender years, when they are ever begging for nursery rhymes and tales, the father and mother usually find time to enjoy books with the little ones. As they grow up, it is not so easy and yet, more than we often realize, these little men and women are just as hungry for parental love and understanding as they were as babes though they may be less open in showing it. One of the best ways of keeping close to the minds and hearts of young folk is to grow up with them through sharing their books. Be actively interested in what is interesting to growing youth. Yes, we grant that it is difficult to find time for all this in connection with other pressing duties; yet there are ways BETTER BOOK BUYING FOR THE HOME 659 of doing it as many mothers and fathers have proved. And precious time may be saved by thus keeping close, and tactfully guiding young minds and hearts aright as occasion arises. Best of all rewards to come from such devotion is this: it helps keep parents youthful. ANOTHER rich return from this loving effort is here. In studying books for youth, there is real education. No one can read even part of the books that are prepared today for the young without gaining a broader outlook on the world its geography, its history, its science, its literature, its art. Many a parent, denied the privilege of taking courses in high school or college, has in some measure made up this lack by studying with his or her children. It is our feeling that time should be set aside every day, or regularly during the week, for such co-operative study between young and old. This is particularly important during the childhood and early youth  the formative years. A story hour, the reading of poetry, of the Bible, and other choice literature, brings spiritual uplift, cultivates appreciation for the best in books, and leave'* golden memories to guide and inspire through life. Through a choice home library-beginning with only a few book friends  these riches of reading and companionship between parents and children may be fostered. With the years, the library will grow; well-selected books and wholesome magazines may be added. Well-chosen pictures also, make for attractiveness. If a separate room can be set aside, with proper light and warmth and ventilation, it will become a center for the members of the family and even their friends to enjoy. Nothing is of greater import than such home enrichment. As for the books that should be brought into the home library, these may be varied. Each well-planned library will reveal the individuality of the members of the home. Yet in every such collection of books there should be certain ones that are standard and basic. No library, for example, would be complete without a Bible. For Latter-day Saints, the other standard works of the Church are essential. Besides these, a good dictionary and a good encyclopedia are constantly helpful. A good history of our country is another essential volume. Likewise, each member of our Church should possess a good history of the Church as a reference. Added to the foundational books just suggested, provision should be made to satisfy the needs of children in the home. Here is where more careful study and selection should be made. For little folk, many, many books are being created every year; and fond parents are constantly buying these  not often wisely. A few guiding suggestions may be helpful here. First, see that the book you buy is both wholesome and interesting. A good test is to read a few pages aloud. Watch the content; see whether the words are simple, the lines musical in effect, the story or poem of appeal to childhood. Children's books that live and last pass these basic tests. Pictures that adorn books for little folk should be childlike in spirit. Avoid the ornate, the over-stimulating in art. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE NOVEMBER 1945 In many of the texts-primers and other readers we have today excellent examples of drawings suited for children. Study these. FOR the early boyhood and girl-hood, there should be books of more maturity. Youngsters like adventure; they enjoy nature stories of convincing cast; they are constantly asking: Is it true? Simple biographies of heroes and heroines give them satisfying materials. Stories of boys and girls if told with a ring of truth, hold their interest. Added to this, they have a sense of humor that must be satisfied. This is shown in their zest for the "funny pictures"  just as their keen desire to listen to exciting plays on the radio or see them in the photoplay reveals their craving for adventure. If these gripping challenges to parents are to be met, it must be by providing, likewise, gripping books that hold the interest. Parents, too, must be ready to help their children find the joys within the storybook by sharing this recreation with them  not always an easy thing to do, we admit, but well worth the efforts made to keep close. One of the places where the difficulties increase is when the boy and the girl reach adolescence. Here romance social problems add complications. Unfortunately, this is an age which seems in a measure to have been neglected by writers. We have too few wholesome, and at the same time gripping books, for the adolescent. As a result, our young folk are too often finding their reading matter within the books created for grownups. There are, of course, some volumes of perennial appeal for young folk of high school age. We need far more of these. All of the foregoing suggestions are, we realize, rather general. Guide lines only can be offered in this brief presentation. Any list of books appended to this discussion particularly without helpful annotation, would be inadequate. Here, however, are two specific suggestions that may prove helpful: First, Christmas book buying-offers a good chance to begin better hook buying for the home. Make a careful study by examining books offered for sale. Second, consult a librarian or a teacher for guidance in book buying for children of given ages. Third, let a committee be appointed to study the question of book buying as it applies to your own ward or town. Some years ago throughout Utah the parent's classes won the co-operation of bookdealers in having well-selected books for young folk placed on the shelves for Christmas. This practice needs to be renewed and extended. Merchants, generally, are glad to co-operate in this effort to get better books into the homes. Concerted effort on the part of all our Church organizations in the making of guide lists would provide another helpful plan of action. Already, our various magazines are giving helpful book reviews. We commend these. What further seems needed is greater unity of action on the part of the different organizations to give parents and children guidance in this vital matter of building and using good home libraries. CHRYSANTHEMUMS Grace M. Candland Late autumn flower of rich and blended shades Of garnet, rust, and rose, and peacock blue. And delicate cerise and copper hue, Arranged like bits of muslin overlaid In pointed rows that circle into place Like caps atop a mass of deep sea green; Indented leaves, faced with a pearly sheen, To coalesce like knitted bars of lace. Long months of summer sun and cooling rain Have wrought this miracle of loveliness. And held it in reserve till hill and plain Have lost all other blooms, and frosts caress Has blighted them, but these fair flowers will stay To greet the snowflakes of a winter's day. NOVEMBER Courtney Cottam Now, when November's melody is heard Upon the world's great rust and ambered harp. Lingering as the call of a winter-bird In lonely looning when the winds blow sharp. It plays a threnody among the stalks Of roses, now betrayed by fall's embrace; Then strums a pagan chant on leaf-strewn walks, And hums an age-old hymn through bare twig lace. Through my wild heart this rhapsody is sung, That throbbing, beats in unison with these. The stubble-pattern of fields; the trees " In filigree against the sky, star-flung. November's melody is bitter-bright. Yet brings a quiet, memoried delight. Page 661 Sixty Years, Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, November 1, and November 15, 1885 "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women OF All Nations" HUMILITY Alas! I am afraid that the hearts of many of us are far, far from being meek and humble. Wealth and position cause many of the weaker minded of our sex to forget the example Jesus has set before us, or the commandments that he caused ta be written for us to follow after.... Then, how important it is that we do as he bids, and humble ourselves.... In these critical times how necessary it is that we, as women of Zion, as mothers and wives of men holding the Priesthood, should lay aside our world-liness... And set the example of humility before our children, that we may not be the cause of their going astray.... Sisters, the most beautiful jewels a woman can adorn herself with are humility, virtue, modesty and intelligence. They contain no dross, but are the real, genuine metal. Adorned with these, the most homely face will reflect forth the soul within, until it appears really beautiful. Ida. MISCELLANEOUS: He is never without dignity who avoids wounding the dignity of others. Considering one's own weakness is a great help to gentleness in dealings with others. Love must have expression, or it will die. It can be kept forever beautiful and blessed as at first, by giving it constant utterance in word and act. The more it is allowed to flow out in delicate attentions and noble service, the stronger and more satisfying and blessed it will be. The house becomes home only when love drops its heavenly manna in it fresh every day; and the true marriage vow is not made once for all at the altar, but by loving words, helpful services, and delicate attentions to the end. Pleasure is a shadow, wealth is vanity, and power is a pageant; but knowledge is ecstatic in enjoyment, perennial in form, unlimited in space, and infinite in duration. LEGEND OF THE BEAUTIFUL HAND: There was a dispute among three ladies as to which had the most beautiful hands. One sat by a stream and dipped her hand into the stream and held it up; another plucked strawberries until the ends of her fingers were pink; and another gathered violets until her hands were fragrant. An old, haggard woman passed by and asked, "Who will give me a gift, for I am poor?" Ail three denied her; but another who sat near... Gave her a little gift and satisfied the poor woman. And then she asked them what was the dispute, and they told her, and lifted up their beautiful hands. "Beautiful, indeed," said she when she saw them. But when they asked her which was the most beautiful, she said, "Tt is not the hand that is washed clean in the brook, it is not the hand that is tipped with red, it is not the hand that is garlanded with flowers, tut the hand that gives to the poor is the most beautiful." As she said these words, her wrinkles fled, her staff was thrown away, and she stood before them an angel from heaven with authority to decide the question in dispute. And that decision has stood the test of all time. Selected. Page 662 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon A host of relatives and friends mourn the passing of Flora Ridge Hicks, who died August 24, 1945, in Scottsdale, Arizona. Of English birth, Flora came to America in her late teens already a prominent singer. Ten years ago Sister Hicks accompanied her husband to Scottsdale, where he presided over the Indian (Papago) Ward. Flora taught the Indians hygiene, nutrition, cooking, nursing. A soloist, accompanist, composer, and director, she organized quartettes, choruses, and a ward choir. Her service to the Church was outstanding and ardent. PROFESSOR EDWARD E. THORNDIKE, psychologist of Columbia University, after extensive studies in comparative ratings of states along many lines, says that Utah and Massachusetts take the lead in producing the most smart men and women per million population. Many Utah women help to bear out the above statement. MRS. DONNA EARLE PARKINSON, who has returned to Salt Lake to make her home, has been for some years an instructor in the department of speech and dramatics in Vassar College, also director of the radio workshop there. She has filled important dramatic roles on national radio networks and is NOW appearing in radio programs originating in Salt Lake. MRS ALENE DALTON wrote a song for her sorority, "Mom Says Not to Worry." Mrs. Dalton also wrote the lyrics for My Picture Book of Songs, in which Myriel Ash-ton and Erla Young, also Utah girls, collaborated with music and illustrations. Donahue of Chicago, publisher of Raggedy Ann and Raggedy Andy, is bringing out the volume. MISS RUTHELLA WADE, University of Utah alumna, is editor of Dance Magazine, published in New York. TOP Utah moving-picture stars are Loretta Young, Laraine Day, Jean Sullivan. MRS. ELNA JEAN ANDERSON " " HANSON of Salt Lake, only twenty-three, was in great demand as a Powers model in New York, and last season, while understudy to the leading lady in "Mexican Hayride," had many opportunities to sing the role. Audiences were enthusiastic. MISS HELEN FOSTER OF Cedar City, while writing in the Orient, married foreign correspondent Edgar Snow. As Nym Wales, she has published Inside Red China, a best seller, and recently. The China Labor Movement. Page 663 EDITORIAL 

VOL. 32 NOVEMBER 1945 NO. 11 The Idaho Falls Temple Dedicated Possibly no more solemn nor glorious an occasion is offered to Latter-day Saints in mortality than the opportunity to attend the dedicatory services to our Heavenly Father of one of his temples. To those who were privileged to be present at any of the eight sessions held in conjunction with the dedication of the beautiful Idaho Falls Temple on September 23, 24, and 25, 1945, the memory will remain sacred to them forever. All the general authorities of the Church were in attendance throughout the three-day sessions and delivered impressive and moving addresses. An enveloping spirit of peace and thanksgiving entered into the hearts of the assembled saints and banished from their thoughts the worries and cares of this world. The veil separating this world from the hereafter seemed thin indeed. During the great dedicatory prayer by President George Albert Smith, all the congregation united in fervent supplication to the Father that the petitions sought for and the blessings invoked in the dedicatory prayer might be granted. In deep humility many firm resolutions were silently made to join more ardently in the future in the necessary work of welding the chain of the human family back to Father Adam. When the reminder was sounded, "And he (Elijah) shall plant in the hearts of Page 664 the children the promises made to the fathers, and the hearts of the children shall turn to their fathers. If it were not so, the whole earth would be utterly wasted at his coming," the thought was awakened that each time a new temple is erected the warning note of Malachi's prophecy, as quoted to the Prophet Joseph Smith by Moroni, becomes less dread. Following the inspiring dedicatory prayer, those present at each session joined in the Hosanna Shout, and ensuing beautiful musical selections served to impart a feeling of heavenly benediction on the scene. As the saints reluctantly left at the conclusion of a session, involuntarily many eyes were drawn back for a final glimpse of the mural opposite the entrance to the temple. This painting, portraying Christ standing in an attitude of welcome to those entering, seemed to impose a feeling of personal obligation to perform temple work with renewed zeal. From a prayerful study of the proceedings of the dedicatory services of the Idaho Falls Temple, may Latter-day Saints everywhere be inspired to so order their lives that the blessings and promises which are obtainable only in a house of the Lord may be bestowed on them and their children in mortality, to be fully realized in the eternities to come. -M. C. S. ?Photograph by L. V. McNeely THE IDAHO FALLS TEMPLE Dedicated September 23, 24, 25, 1945 A. A- "Oh hear O hear, O hear us, O Lord! And never these petitions, and accept the dedication of this house unto thee, the work of our hands, which we have built unto hy name; And also this Church, to put upon it thy name. And help us by the power of throne, with acclamations of praise, singing Hosanna to God and the Lamb And let these, thine anointed ones be clothed with salvation, and thy saints shout aloud for joy. Amen, and Amen. (Doctrine and Covenants, 109:78-80). From the inspired dedicatory prayer offered by the Prophet Joseph Smith in the Kirtland Temple March 27, 1836, preceding the Hosanna Shout which has since become a traditional feature of the dedication of all Latter-day Saint temples. NOTES TO THE FIELD (organizations and reorganizations of Mission and Stake Relief Societies Since the last report, printed in the November 1944 issue of The Relief Society Magazine Stake East Millcreek North Carbon North Box Elder South Box Elder West Pocatello Missions ORGANIZATIONS Formerly Part of Appointed President Date of Appointment Grant Sarah E. Bateman Carbon Annie Parker Box Elder Beatrice B. Hansen Box Elder May Jensen Pocatello Emily S. Romish REORGANIZATIONS July 8, 1945 June 24, 1945 November 12, 1944 February 5, 1945 May 6, 1945 Released President Appointed President Date of Appointment Australian Brazilian British Central States Netherlands New Zealand Texas-Louisiana (Formerly Texas) Western Canadian Western States Stakes June C. Orme Ada P. Seegmiller Florence B. Dunn Lydia Ann N. Romney Sister Schipaamboord Elva T. Cowley Martha T, Warner Afton Miller Luceal R. Curtis Edith G. Butler June 1, 1945 Diania H. Rex June 27, 1945 Zina C. Brown July 16, 1945 (Died May 18, 1945) Adrian Meyers Zappey Sept. 29, 1945 Luana P. Halversen January 16, 1945 Christie J. Smith Pearl C. Card Lucile B. Madsen Sept. 18, 1945 April 9, 1945 February 23, 1945 Released President Appointed President Date of Appointment Alpine Bannock Beaver Big Cottonwood Big Horn Burley Carbon Chicago Deseret East Jordan Franklin Grant Logan Maricopa Minidoka Morgan Mount Ogden Nevada New York North Sevier Park Page 666 Fern A. Walker Anna Lloyd Lacy R. Nowers Lucile B. Madsen Hulda M. Lynn Agnes C. Hoggan Belle Johnson Lois E. Astin Vera S. Hilton Lucy B. Godfrey Alice S. Merrill Cassandra D. Bailey Ada E. Morrell Irene Brown Doris L. May May D. Rich Ella P. Farr Lucille Horton Eva F. Haglund Melissa M. Crane Blanche B. Stoddard Alice W. Carlisle Eliza B. Christensen Melba T. Yardley Alta J. Vance Grace E. Allphin Bertha Hill Florence Pace Louise D. Williams Marie T. Moody Vella Jones Ined Fryer Maud P. Allen La Vera W. Coombs Vida Driggs Brinton Katherine Barnes Margaret Thackeray Mary J. Wilson Koa Taylor Grace C. Woolley Bernice Mickelsen Hildur E. Johnson June 24, 1945 February 18, 1945 August 26, 1945 March 18, 1945 July 29, 1945 May 13, 1945 June 24, 1945 Sept. 26, 1945 July 29, 1945 May 6, 1945 Sept 16, 1945 June 17, 1945 May 13, 1945 March 18, 1945 December 3, 1944 March 24, 1945 Sept. 30, 1945 Sept. 30, 1945 June 20, 1945 April 29, 1945 June 3, 1945 NOTES TO THE FIELD 667 Stakes Portland Rigby Roosevelt San Diego San Francisco Seattle South Davis South Los Angeles South Sanpete Timpanogos Twin Falls Utah Uvada West Jordan Released President Appointed President Date of Appointment Teressa S, Johnson Phoebe Cordon Margaret Wiscombe Mary M. Christiansen Esther D. Stephens May W. Milligan (deceased) Elizabeth H. Hogan Blanche M. Johnson Anna S. Rasmuson Cora W. Atwood M. Lennie Ward Edith Y. Booth June C. Huntington Evelyn Nielsen Dorothy Peterson Ann Neilsen Florence P. Nielson Josie B. Bay Agnes F. Lindsay Vera M. Leishman Alta C. Hess Rose Astle Vera C. Ericksen Geneve J. Dalton Kathryn Merrill Josephine S. Bird Mary Hansen Dora B. Callicott July 29, 1945 March 18, 1945 October 5, 1944 August 19, 1945 March 25, 1945 March 1, 1945 July 15, 1945 July 1, 1945 October 1, 1944 October 22, 1944 March 11, 1945 July 17, 1945 February 11, 1945 July 1, 1945 Attention, Relief Society (choristers The following lists of songs will be found helpful in imparting enthusiasm and interest to the music program of the Relief Sociey organizations. These lists are reprinted from the December Magazine, 1942. Further lists will be found on pages 868-870 of that issue. The following sacred songs are suitable for use in connection with the theology lessons: Three-Part Songs Women's Voices Title Composer Publisher Oh, For a Closer Walk with God Foster (No. 14,696) Ditson Galilee Cadman (8021) Chappell-Harms See What Love Hath the Father Mendelssohn (2991) Witmark The King of Love My Shepherd Is Berwald (11788) Ditson Hold Thou My Hand Briggs-Gibb (531) B. F. Wood The Heavens Are Telling (from The Creation) Haydn (14223) Ditson God Is Love Shelley (4562) G. Schirmer Thanks Be to God Dickson (2404) Boosey-Hawkes When Children Pray Fenner Shattinger Hymn of Thanksgiving Kremser (89002) Flammer O Saviour, Hear Me Gluck-Riegger (89015) Flammer Beautiful Saviour (Old Crusader's Hymn) Riegger (89017) Flammer O Come To My Heart, Lord Jesus.... Ambrose (15072) Ditson Gloria Buzzi-Peccia (89004) Flammer Praise Ye the Father Gounod-Bliss (2797) Willis How Blest Are They Mendelssohn (258) Ditson That Sweet Story of Old West (4070) Summy My Creed Garrett (763) Gamble Hinge All in the April Evening Diack-Howorth (1677) Boosey-Hawkes Open Our Eyes MacFarlane G. Schirmer Spirit Divine Hamblem Chappell The texts of the following three-part choruses are taken from the Bible. These will, therefore, correlate well with the literature lessons: Title Composer Publisher The Lord's Prayer Gates Choir Pub. The Lord's Prayer Malotte (No. 7987) G. Schirmer The Lord Is My Light Allitsen (1470) Boosey Lift Thine Eyes Mendelssohn (820) Ditson God So Loved the World Stainer (7847) G, Schirmer I Will Lift Up Mine Eyes Flaxington Harker (89007).. Flammer Blessed Are the Pure in Heart Berwald (11800) Ditson *How Beautiful Upon the Mountains.. Flaxington Harker (7876).. G. Schirmer Peace I Leave with You Roberts (2131) Boston Music Co. *How Lovely Are Thy Dwellings Liddle-Samuelson (1494)..-Boosey How Lovely Is Thy Dwelling Brahms (2897) Whitmark He Shall Feed His Flock Handel-Kountz (5017) Whitmark How Lovely Are the Messengers Mendelssohn (4371) G, Schirmer Seek Ye the Lord Roberts (1104) Willis Bless the Lord, O My Soul Ippolitof-Ivanof (89033)... Flammer God Is a Spirit Bennett (2872) Whitmark The Voice in the Wilderness Prindle Scott (504) Huntzinger The 23rd Psalm Schubert (5106) Carl Fischer Eye Hath Not Seen Gaul Ditson Send Out Thy Light Gounod (6012) Neil A. Kjos The Peace of God Gounod Ditson The following songs are suitable for use during the Christmas season: Title Composer Publisher Christmas Carols Wood Octavo Series A Babe is Born in Bethlehem Wood Octavo Series Holy Night! Peaceful Night Hawley Presser Lo, How a Rose Praetorius Flammer Christmas Candle Warren G. Schirmer Sleep Holy Babe Matthews G. Schirmer Lullaby Cain (No. 83086) Flammer Santa Maria (In Dreams I've Heard).. J. Faure (11621) Ditson When Jesus Was a Little Child Tchaikowsky (13,333) Ditson Jesu, Word of God Incarnate Mozart (11796) Ditson Cradle Song, Ries (5094) Carl Fischer Hark, Hark My Soul Shelley (4878) G. Schirmer The following secular songs are for general use: Title Composer Publisher Clouds Charles-Deis (No. 7728).... G. Schirmer The Mill'..' Jensen (11071) Ditson The Green Cathedral Hahn (35028) John Church The Close of Another Day O'Hara (83055) Flammer In the Heart of the Hills Lee (0127) Sam Fox Southern Moon Strickland (6146) J. Fischer & Bro. Dreamin' Time Strickland (6147) J. Fischer & Bro. Drift and Dream Jepperson (1286) Gamble Hinge O Lovely Night Ronald (2424) Boosey Bird Songs at Eventide Coates (3062) Chappell Songs marked with an asterisk (*) can be used as solos if desired. The Star Burns Bright Sibyl Spande Bowen Sibyl Spande Bowen, a gifted Latter-day Saint writer, died in August 1945. AAN MA written many excellent stories and articles for The Relief Society Magazine. Her serial, "The Shining Heart," was featured in 1939. THE woman almost closed the cabin door against the rising wind before she saw the dim figure plodding through the snow-clogged path toward her. She hustled Martha into a big kitchen, warm with lamplight and red shafts from the grate of the big stove. The girl stood silent, dazed with the sudden heat. Seena Furnstrom's big hands unwound the girls muffler, took off her heavy coat, and pushed her gently into the black rocker. "Tou, Miss Dexter, why aind't you wit' party you go for, over Christmas?" Martha pulled off her gloves, and brushed snow from the aura of pale yellow hair that escaped under the band of her parka hood. There was blue fire in her angry eyes. "Why!" she exploded, "because Fm just Martha Dexter, the girl who smiles when her date passes her up, the slow-witted blond who doesn't mind being a poor second to the measles of the Jenks twins or to the boil on Sven Neilson's neck-but this time I'm through." Seena had a cup of hot soup from her ever-boiling black kettle to offer with her soothing cluck, "Now, Miss Dexter, the doctor make you so mad many times, but you always get glad right soon. He has to go when people is sick, huh?" Martha waved the soup cup excitedly. "People! People, yes! Seena, this time it was a horse. He takes me, Martha Dexter, twenty miles through the snow to a house party, and then leaves me flat. 'So sorry, darling,' he says, 'but Bill Hal-ton's horse is sick."" She remembered the soup and salted it with the sudden tears of her rage. "I came back on the mail sled." 'All Halton's horses cost money," Seena commented mildly, and turned a pair of big fur-lined boots to the fire glow. She drew a note from the pocket of her checkered gingham apron and handed it to the girl slumped in the big chair. "This telegram... Ole brought it up from the toll station last night." At first it was just words, scrawled in Mrs. Todd's uncertain hand. Then Martha sat up, her eyes determined, spots of red in her cheeks. She noted the lined boots, the sheepskin coat, the robes, warming before the fire. "Ole going out for freight-Christmas Eve?" Her voice was high with excitement. "Christmas Eve, yes." There was a flare of old resentment in Seena's words, then she was stolid again. "Sure, when the freight comes, Ole got to get it, or lose his job." But Martha scarcely heard her. She jumped up and hugged Seena excitedly. "I'm going with him. Seena, this telegram?from Herbert. He's on his way from Chicago, and hell wait for me at Junction?one Page 669 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1945 day. Darling, I'm getting out of here. Wolf Hill School will be minus one slave-driven teacher, all six grades of it. Fm meeting Herbert." SEENA'S broad face was cool, faintly scornful. 'That thin feller that drove you up here last fall? Him with the hay fever and wearing everything to match?" Martha's face flamed. "Yes, and with the sense to live in a place where the lights go on with switches instead of matches, where you don't have to carry the heat in in a wood hod, and where the water comes out of faucets instead of from a bucket of melted snow! Oh, I'm sorry, Seena. You and Ole have been the best ever to live with, but I can't take it. I can't imagine why I ever had the notion I wanted to run away from Herb!" Suddenly, she turned on Seena. "And don't tell me the doctor won't like it. Fm sick and tired of hearing what Doctor Peter Thorne won't like." Seena turned a scornful back. T"HE road was a fenceless, pathless blur under the runner's of Ole Furnstrom's bobsled. The twilight deepened to the monotonous jingle of the sleigh bells, to the soft hiss of snowflakes that steamed suddenly on the hot stove pipe that was thrust out from the rear vent of the covered sleigh. Martha, snuggled beside the round little stove inside the box, swaddled in one of Seena's good sheepskin robes, fed another stick of quaking aspen to the stove and pulled aside the canvas flap to take one last look at the valley before the road wound into the narrows. The valley! Plodding through eternal snowdrifts to the blizzard-swept little school on the ridge five times a week. Coming back to Ole's gray cabin to shiver or roast over the woodburner, malodorous of green quaking aspen, until Seena's never-fail supper of fried pork, potatoes, and dried-apple pie was ready. The valley! Dances in the chilly, barnlike structure with young men who bored her?young men who stood about the dance hall while the girls huddled around the rusty stove hoping to be rescued from the wallflower bench by one of these rustic swains! Martha lifted her face defiantly. This was all behind her. Ahead was Herbert, safe, cautious, civilized... Herbert The sleigh lurched to a stop, throwing Martha to her hands and knees. She shouted to Ole, who sat in the front seat in his sheepskin coat, scorning the heated interior. "What's the matter?" "A man," Ole returned stolidly, and waited. In the grayish gloom of snow-filled air a lantern bobbed, swung in a signal by the darker bulk behind it. A voice shouted, "Hey there!" The figure plowed through the drifts and approached the sleigh, hauling up the canvas unceremoniously. "A woman," he said in surprise, looking into the warm interior, "just what I was waiting for." He reached in, took Martha's suitcase in his free hand and bawled, "End of the line. Everybody out." Martha made angry efforts to stay the suitcase, then scrambled over the front seat. "If this is your idea of a joke, you.... I?m on my way out of the valley, and we've got to keep going or we won't meet the stage at Halfway House, and I won't get home for Christmas..."
She stopped, struck by the ridiculous likeness of her tale to the story of the "Old Woman and the Pig."
But the man with the lantern was already plowing through the snow of the trail back. "Come on, come on, Marty, and no back talk. Women don't grow on fence posts around here, and right now I need one, and while you're not exactly the one I'd have picked from a crowd, you'll do in a pinch."
Martha caught her breath sharply. "I might have known?the good old team-roller method. Everybody's wrong but you, Doctor Thorne. Ole!" she called.
Ole was flintlike. "The Doc, he need you. You better go, Miss Dexter. There'll be another stage another day."
MARTHA was out, stepping along into prints the man ahead of her made in the deep snow. She heard him shout back to Ole Fornstrom. "Drive along and tell Mrs. Perkes I want her here by morning, or else."
Morning! Martha's anger flared, but she plodded along. It was a good quarter mile through the drifts down to the cabin by the frozen river. Doctor Thorne reached it ahead of the girl, and held the slab door open until Martha stumbled in, furred to the waist with new snow, her breath gasping her strained lungs, her pale hair about her face a rim of white. She leaned against the door, easing her breath-ing, seeing the room like a misty picture.
Two shaggy-haired children, a boy and a girl, hugging the ancient kitchen woodburner, stared at her with unwinking, round blue eyes. A smoke - streaked "factory" cloth, tacked to the walls and low ceiling, was torn in places from the rough logs it covered. The furniture was makeshift, a carpet-covered couch in the corner behind the stove; packing box cupboards curtained by the same red print that hung limply over the tiny window.
Peter Thorne unwrapped himself like a tall cocoon from his tar-lined leather coat and helmet?Peter Thorne, red-haired, blue-eyed, and quite as unembarrassed as if the girl he had just kidnaped had never known his arms about her, his forth-right kiss upon her lips, had never flung his ring back to him just last night. ("So you won't marry me, huh," he had said. "Well, don't say I didn't warn you about what you're missing when you change your mind, darling.")
Peter Thorne completed his unwinding operations. "Off with the fuzzies, Martha. Kids, this pretty lady is your new cook. Marty, she kids haven't had any supper, and neither have I."
MARTHA just stood there, confused and angry; her impulse was to turn and run. Then from the other side of an inner slab door came a moan that rose to a shrill height, then died away. Doctor Thorne grinned, on the wry side. "The stork is flying, Miss Dexter, frostbitten and snowbound, but on the job. So you see this isn't just a little game to annoy you. This is the trapper, Lafe Higgins' place, and of course he chose just this time to haul out a load of his kids. Buster,
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1945 here, caught me just as I finished with Bill Halton's horse." The tallest towhead, the boy, offered in a timid voice, ?Top's going to find Santy in Junction and tell him to bring us sumpin." Peter Thorne looked at Martha with challenging eyes that were steel under the copper crest of his hair, and hard as the metal itself. "That's great, kids," he said, "now show Miss Marty where things are. She's going to be very, very busy," he finished significantly. And he turned to the slab door and left Martha. She looked at the children in despair. At the rise of the moans from the next room, panic rose to dry her throat. A baby being born.... And she, Martha Dexter, was here to face it with nobody else but Peter Thorne. There was water to boil, gallons and gallons of it, all reduced from the pails of snow Martha laboriously dug out and carried in. There were old sheets, instruments, to sterilize, with Peter Tliorne darting in from the bedroom to give his orders like a booming top sergeant. There was the stove to feed? always the stove to feed, from the frozen pile of aspen near the back door. The pile was just beyond a little cut spruce that leaned against the side of the house. Twice Martha passed the little spruce tree, twice she turned away from its mute appeal. ""As if I didn't have enough to do. Chances are it isn't even set in a stool," she i; aid to the wind. But Buster, tugging at his sticks of aspen, told her. "Pop put it handy, so Santy could trim it when he comes." Behind her a sardonic voice said, "Run up your ladder to bed, kids. Miss Marty is too busy to fuss around with Christmas trees." And when the doctor came out from beyond the slab door the next time, Martha was defiantly brushing snow from the branches of the tree triumphantly upright in the corner. "Not one of the vital necessities around here just now," he murmured. "It is vital," Martha insisted, "because when Mrs. Perkes gets here-well, you know Mrs. Efficiency Perkes.' " Peter Thorne stepped to the window and pulled aside the limp calico curtain. The snow lashed furiously against the small panes. "Relax, darling," he said, "and see what the weather man has brought us. Ole won't take his feet out of Mrs. Perke's oven until this blizzard blows over, and Lafe Higgins is no doubt holed up at Halfway House for the same reason." Halfway House! Furious tears splashed the cotton angel Martha jabbed onto the tree. The doctor was behind her, "You never hang an angel upside down," he reproved mildly, "and anyway, doesn't it seem a waste of energy to leave the valley on Christmas Day when you must be back in less than a week?" MARTHA groped in her pocket and found the crumpled evidence of Herbert's telegram. Unsteadily she thrust it into the hand that touched her own. Silence followed. Young Doctor Thorne made another prolonged stay in the room beyond the closed door, and just when Martha's heart was unevenly not sure she had scored, he came back into the room THE STAR BURNS BRIGHT 673 with a soft, too gentle, "So you're quitting." That was the way he said it?just as if she were running away, craven-ly, without cause. Nothing about the battle of snowdrifts, the loneliness, the struggle with six grades of badly-trained, indifferent children who really did not care a mangy sheep for the foundation stones of learning. Pink battle flags stained Martha's cheeks. ?Yes," she cried, stung, 'I'm quitting. Quitting a log cabin for a heated apartment. Quitting a snowbound hole in the hills for a place where a library isn't considered a sign of corruption. Yes, Doctor, I'm quitting." Outrageously, tears filled her eyes, so that she must turn back to the tree to fumble with a string of paper stars. Peter stirred at his boiling instrument pan. "And I thought," he said softly, "that given time you might figure out how Wolf Hill might someday have a library, too." "I'm going home." It had b-come a battle cry. "Okay, you're going home. But first you're stoking the fire and we're scrubbing up. The bird is perching right on the chimney," the red-haired doctor snapped, and somehow all the banter had left with the look he gave the girl. At last he believed her. BIRTH is a grim thing. There is sweat and anguish, the sharp cry of pain that seems unbearable, but is not. There is suspense that wears to agony, and the urgent need to do something, only to find that little can be done. Martha stood powerless in the midst of hours that had no end, her mouth dry with fear of this thing. But she heard the woman's words. "Their stockings," the woman said, "musn't forget to put them out. They're in the...." Her rising shriek almost drowned her words. But Martha scrambled away. She can think of things like Christmas stockings when she's going through that, she told her amazed self. And then, somehow, it was over. The mother was asleep with that smile that made her kin to all the madonnas, and Martha and Peter crept into the kitchen, to stand staring at each other, as if they had shared a miracle almost too intimately; staring at the wooden cradle where the new baby slept, his tiny face wrinkled solemnly. Abruptly, Martha turned toward the window and looked out. Peter followed her, and parted the curtains wider. The hush of the room about them was part of the white silence without, a silence in which the very wind and storm had stilled. In a rift of the clouds a single star shone like a new-minted piece of silver. "That star," Martha said, all the tide of her unshed tears in her voice, "it's so bright, so alone. It might be The Star, on this night." Peter Thorne said, "It is The Star, Marty. Often it shines, and I like to think that it guides the feet of someone who has lost his way." "Lost his way?" "Yes, Martha. You're all wrong, you know, dear. You don't want that steam-heated apartment?and Herbert. You want the storm and strife of things up here. You want..." the voice of Peter was very close, and if she but moved, his lips RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1945 would be on her cheek. "... Did you know you were wonderful tonight?" MARTHA moved away, not sure of the tumult that pounded in her heart. Rebellious questions were on her lips, until she pulled the curtains violently to shut out the calm rays of the star. But when she turned, Peter Thome was not there. He was stretched out fast asleep on the lumpy surface of the old couch. "So that's as much as it means to him! Sound asleep!" Tired tears washed* her cheeks as Martha found her coat, her suitcase, and floundered up the snow-ridden trail to the road?the road gray in the faint dawn, and creaking under the runners of Ole Furnstrom's sleigh. Mrs. Perkes beamed from her hood. "How did things go. Miss Dexter? I was ready to go down last night, but the doctor said, when he passed my place, there was no need. He wanted to get you used to the run of the thing, seein' as you was to be Mrs. Doctor." Martha staggered limply to the sleigh and got in while Mrs. Perkes landed her round self in the snow. "Oh, yes," she answered dazedly, "things went all right. They do with Doctor Thome, you know." The utter, unbelievable nerve of him! "He's remarkable, ain't he?" the smiling nurse agreed as she bobbed into the snow. Remarkable. The remarkable Doctor Thome. Martha chanted the words to the rhythmic sway of Ole's sled. She sat on a sheepskin with her chin in her knees and thought of Herbert, fuming in the drab discomfort of Junction House. She thought of Peter Thorne, of the sardonic blue eyes, the flaming crest and the salty tongue. She thought of the mother who took time out of her agony to remember her children's Christmas stockings, of the faithful trekking of Ole Furnstrom, who went on Christmas Day, that the lonely farmsteads of Wolf Hill might have their needed goods. She thought of a man who left a party to minister to a sick horse?Bill Halton's horse, that cost good money. Never once did she think of Martha Dexter, whose comfort had been so all-important. "The Star burns bright," she said suddenly, and heard the pound of feet in soft snow behind her. "If Ole weren't so soft about his horses I'd never have made it," Peter Thorne panted, scrambling in under the canvas. Martha could not look at him, but her mind saw him. Unshaven, blue eyes hollow in a tired face, a crooked grin. "I don't blame you for being sore, Marty, but I've got to tell you how sorry I am for dragging you in on last night. I... [had a fool notion that seeing life in the raw... You might like to live it with me." Martha pleated the wet cuff of her glove, and was silent. The crooked grin faded a bit. "Won't you say something? I'm a hardy hulk myself. I forget that everybody doesn't dote on the great open spaces where plumbing is something out of a catalogue, and... Well, hang it all, I guess a fellow like Herbert has more to offer a lovely girl like you than a back-country pill-shooter... Here, we're at the toll station. You can call Herbert and..." THE STAR BURNS BRIGHT Martha was looking at him now, a bit of the light of stars in her blue eyes. 'Tete-?" the name was natural on her lips?"don't tell me ever again what you have to offer me. It's what I have to offer you, and Wolf Hill, and Lafe Higgins' kids, and the Furnstroms, and... Oh, Pete, what a narrow escape I had. Just think if you, and that Star, 675 hadn't reached out and grabbed me and set me right?Peter, are you listening?" The words were breathless, almost pleading. A man's two arms about the girl he loves can be definitely more satisfying than any words ever spoken, but Peter risked a few. "Darling, what do you think?" was all he said. HE CARETH FOR THEE Georgia Moore Eberling On the topmost branch of our bare oak tree A lone brown leaf clings stubbornly. (It is long past time for the leaves to go,) When the brisk fall winds began to blow They put on beautiful golds and reds. Bound crimson ribbons about their heads And sailed aloft, like the butterfly, They all found wings to bear them high. Most of the leaves smiled up at the sun Glad that their summer's work was done, And whispering groups flew far away In the shining hues of their new array. In late November they all have flown Save the leaf that lingered, it's all alone, It will nevermore dance to the lilt of the breeze For winter has come, and all the trees Have wrapped themselves in a winding-sheet Of glittering snow and icy sleet. While the little leaf so full of fear Is ugly and withered, lonely and sere. Tables That Tell the Christmas Story Vesta P. Crawford "CHRISTMAS comes but once a year, but when it comes it brings good cheer." This rhyme we learned as children, and there was a special brightness, a lasting splendor, associated with each word. Christmas this year, for most of us, will be a day of quiet rejoicing, a day in which we hope and pray for that lasting peace long ago promised upon the shining hills of Bethlehem. And yet there should be in our homes many visible tokens of joy and cheerfulness; there should be evidence of the spirit of love and giving. It has been said that Christmas was created for children that they might always remember the story of the Babe of Bethlehem and his gift to the world. Surely it is Christmas at home that becomes a never-fading picture in our galleries of good thoughts. One way to make Christmas beautiful is to decorate the dinner table. Let this be planned in advance with all the family participating. Select snow-white linen, a pale gold or light blue cloth, as a fitting background for Christmas colors and Christmas candles. Silver should be polished to jewelled brightness before the celebration. It is fun for the family and the guests to make place cards by putting their names in a box and mixing Page 676 them up. Then let each person draw out a name and make a place card for that person. Here is ample opportunity for the expression of individuality in design. An original verse makes a good place card; a gum-drop base, holding a "sprig" of evergreen is very pretty. Try using a gaily decorated cookie for a place card, or perhaps a little candle. Even a child can make a bright and pleasing decorative card. For that all-important centerpiece, here is a fist of holiday materials that may be used alone or in various delightful combinations: Candles Miniature Christmas chimneys made of cardboard Pine cones and cedar berries Colored Christinas tree decorations Evergreen branches Paper and plastic bells Stars and constellation arrangements Poinsettias Paper chains Mounds of popped corn Jerusalem cherries (bright green leaves and brilliant red berries) Figurines (sheep, shepherds, angels, camels, reindeer) Cotton, arranged to represent snow-mounded hills Cut-out silhouettes of Santa Claus Miniature artificial trees Weeds, grass, or grains, frosted with white enamel and decorated with artificial snow sequins Holly and mistletoe Oranges, grapes, tangerines, apples, or other fruits TABLES THAT TELL THE CHRISTMAS STORY 677 YOUR centerpiece may be as simple as three tall candles or as elaborate as a detailed representation of a cradle scene. You may place a poinsettia plant in the middle of your table, or you may make a minute procession of the Magi as they journey into white-walled Bethlehem. Some of the most beautiful decorative arrangements are the least expensive. Try this one for snow-white enchantment: before the deep snows of winter come, gather thistle twigs, rose-apples, wheat heads, bean pods, blackberry leaves, or similar contributions from the late fall garden. These are all potential ornaments. Dip them in common white enamel and let them dry slightly. Then sprinkle them with artificial snow crystals. Your gleaming twigs may be arranged for a centerpiece to use with a light blue or a pale gold linen cloth. A winter landscape makes a beautiful centerpiece. Use cotton for the hills, evergreen twigs for trees, a mirror for the pool. Amplify the t. Festive Table with Candles and Evergreens RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1945 scene with a little toy house, a plastic dog, and a cotton lamb. Let Santa Claus approach in his loaded sleigh. Christmas decorating takes a little though a little planning, and much of the spirit of giving. Long afterwards, your children will remember that Christmas at home was bright and beautiful. Santa Claus in a circle of pine cones and evergreen twigs ?Frosted? weeds and evergreens. Colored Christmas tree balls and two red candles. Santa Claus and his sleigh on a ?glassy? pond. The ?trees? in the border are evergreen twigs. ILLUSTRATIONS BY BETTI WILLIAMSON You Are Never Alone Norma Wrathall 
IT was a golden afternoon in late September of the year 1863 that Zina Gleason and her sixteen-year-old daughter Millicent sat on the south porch of the rock house, peeling fall apples for drying. Already the boards, stretched between sawhorses, were filled with fruit, and row it was time for the little girls, Hope, eight years old, and Ruth, six, to clamber up to the flat-roofed shed, and lay the quartered apples in neat rows in the sun.
Zina's dark braids, wound about her head, lent dignity to the calm pallor of her face, and there was serenity even in the sure movements of her strong hands, swiftly at work. Her sweet lips, firm from the discipline of pioneer life, curved only faintly as she smiled and spoke to her daughter.
"Don't lag now, Millie. We've only a few more."
Millicent sighed, and pushed a stray wisp of hair from her warm forehead. "Mama," she said, "won't we ever be through? I feel as if I never wanted to see another apple again. Why do we have to put by so much fruit, anyway?" The freckles stood out on her flushed cheeks.
"You know why, goose. And we're almost through. I'm saving the rest of my sugar for grape jelly. We can be proud of our cellar filled with jars, and of the dried fruits and vegetables in the attic. You've been a real help to me this summer, Millie."
"You can be proud?I'm just tired," sighed the girl, resuming her work. "Mama, how did papa ever manage to get such a large ranch as this?seems like a smaller one would have done, and then we wouldn't have had so much work."
Zina's lips twitched as she answered, for the girls had heard the story time after time, and never seemed to tire of it. "Your father came to this valley as a boy, to herd cattle for one of the ranchers. And his only possession was a fine race horse, a gift from his uncle. He traded this horse for his first five acres of land. Now he owns hundreds of acres, one of the finest cattle ranches in the valley, and you know how proud he is of his horses."
"Yes, especially the pair of bays he drives to Church every Sunday," Millie giggled. "Last Sunday, when Mr. Peterson beat papa driving down Main Street, papa said it was because a gnat flew in Daisy's eye, and put her off her pace for a second."
Zina smiled, remembering the triumphant Mr. Peterson stroking his dark whiskers, while Jacob's reddish moustache bristled in annoyance. Her gray eyes gazed proudly out across the yard, bright with goldenrod, to the fields and pastures beyond where Jacob's cattle grazed?"the land of a thousand springs," the Donner party had called it.
Ruth came scampering from the shed, her sister following, swinging a pan. "Mama, there's a cloud of dust down the road?do you think it's papa?"
ZINA stood up, dumping the rest of her apples into Millie's pan. "We'll stew the rest of these for supper. No, I don't think it's papa. He said he wouldn't be back from town much before dark." She began lowering the water bucket into the built-up well on the porch.
"Maybe it's Indians! Oh, mama, if it is, will you get anything?" Hope began jumping up and down with excitement.
The little girls ran out to the big gate, and in a few minutes came running back just ahead of two squaws. The younger squaw, with a papoose strapped to her back, was unknown to Zina, but she was well acquainted with old "Indian Mary," expert in making woven baskets of native reeds. Hope, suddenly shy, peeped out from behind her mother at the black-eyed papoose, while Zina bargained with the squaws, giving butter, sugar, and some dried fruit in exchange for the mending basket, light and firm in her hands, and smelling faintly of wood smoke.
The usually silent squaws chattered strangely in their own tongue as they went away, and Zina frowned with annoyance as they jabbered and pointed at things about the place. Indians were getting downright brazen nowadays, she considered. Some of them were said to be outlaws and out beggars, and the ranchers' wives had been warned of thieving old Nowans, who came begging and stealing when women and children were alone. But then, you couldn't wonder at it, she thought, as she busied herself getting apples at work. Skull Valley Indians were very poor,
and in bad seasons had hardly enough to eat.
As she worked, she smiled and talked to the baby who lay in the hand-carved cradle which Jacob had made before Millie was born. It was fine to be living in the new two-story rock house, with its two wide porches, convenient well, and cupboards built clear up to the ceiling in the kitchen. The two-room, battle-dotted log cabin of frontier days seemed poor by comparison.
But the baby slept in his cradle, the oil lamps were lighted, and supper dried in the warming oven by the time Jacob returned, laden with parcels. He gave Zina a resounding kiss, causing her pale cheek to color faintly. Jacob was a heavy-set man, his skin ruddy from outdoor life, his tireless energy sparkling in his blue eyes and bristling in his reddish whiskers.
Zina drew back. "Jacob, the children . . ." "Then she saw someone with him.
"I brought Wilmer home with me?got some supper for us?" Jacob was saying, genially.
ZINA welcomed the scout, Wilmer M. Dee, who was dressed in picturesque shirt and trousers trimmed with fringe.
"Mr. Dee, did an Indian make your suit?" asked Ruth, wide-eyed, marveling as he nodded.
It was as they ate the good supper of stewed dried corn, home-cured ham, cottage cheese, and cool milk which Zina kept immoderately fresh in the springhouse, that Jacob made his abrupt announcement. "Guess you'll have to get along without me for a few days, Zin. We're driving out to Lakeside with the cattle early

in the morning. YOU ARE NEVER ALONE 681 Wilmer's going part way to help us get started. We want to get an early start. Peterson's going out, too, with his outfit. He thinks he can beat us with that string of no-good nags of his." He put his hand to his moustache to hide a grin. "Looked to me like he had a pretty good outfit? chuckled Wilmer, "as a matter of fact, Mrs. Gleason, Fm just going as far as the Point of the Mountain." Zina glanced up in surprise. "Out to Lakeside? Isn't this earlier than usual?" She thought that a fleeting glance passed between the two men, and Jacob answered slowly, "We-1-11, no. Not for this season. The Indians say we're going to have an early winter, and so we might as well get the stock settled. It'll mean more than one trip out, best we can do." "Mr. Dee, how did you learn to talk Indian language?" put in Milli-cent, "And what is it they call you, tell us, please?" Mr. Dee's quietly twinkling eyes became sober, and the creases deepened in his lean, deeply tanned cheeks. "It's a story I seldom tell," he began slowly, "because, you see, many people would not believe it? but I'll be glad to tell it to you folks." "I've heard you have a wonderful power over the Lamanites," murmured Zina, unconsciously using the scriptural name. "It came about in this way," began Dee, "as you know, I've had lots of dealings with the Indians, as a guide and scout for many years. But for a long time, I was handicapped by not knowing their language. You know how an Indian talks our language, a few grunts and one or two words." He paused, and somehow even the children had become very quiet in the mellow lamplight. "Well," he continued, "I made it the subject of prayer. Night after night I prayed for the power to understand our red brethren. But nothing happened. Then, one time, I went into the hills with team and wagon for wood. My companion, who was helping me, was a young Indian who knew scarcely a word of English. Finally, it was his turn to sit at the front of the wagon and drive the team while I rested. I dozed off to sleep." Mr. Dee's voice became softly husky as he continued, "It was a wonderful thing. I could hardly believe my own ears. But when I awoke, that young Indian asked me a question and I answered him in his own tongue." They were all quiet for a moment, then Ruth piped up, "But what is it they call you, Mr. Dee?" "Well, the nearest they can come to pronouncing Wilmer M. Dee, is 'Widdem-e-dee." " Everyone smiled, and the talk turned to plans for the morning. As Jacob bade her good-bye before daylight next morning, Zina felt a sense of foreboding. Accustomed to staying alone at the ranch with the children, she felt a strange loneliness, as she stood on the porch and heard the hoofbeats of the horses die away. She shivered when a coyote howled in the distance. Then she turned quickly back to the warm, lighted kitchen. SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1945 It was the third day after Jacob had gone that Ike Harrison brought fresh meat from his butcher shop in RELIEF town, as was his custom at certain intervals. The little girls ran out to meet him, gathering bunches of grass for his white mare, which, as far back as they could remember, had been as weary and woebegone as now. IKE was a skinny little man, with a short white goatee which he had to stroke before giving any kind of an answer. Zina selected the meat she wanted from his canvas-topped wagon, while Ike stood shooing away the swarm of flies which always gathered, though the meat was clean enough under layers of heavy paper and cool leaves. It was after he had eaten his customary piece of pie that he asked, "Heard about the Indian trouble, ma'am?" Zina raised her eyebrows. "Indian trouble? That sounds like frontier days. Are you sure, Ike?" Ike stroked his goatee thoughtfully. 'Tep. Seems there's been a renegade band come in?been rus-tlin' cattle from the ranches?some trouble maker's stirred them up with talk about the white man stealing the Indians' range. Guess that's why your husband and Peterson have taken their cattle out to Lakeside already. Better be careful out here all alone. Well, I've got to be on my way. Good day, and thank ye kindly, ma'am." Zina frowned thoughtfully as she watched him drive away, slapping at the indifferent old mare with the harness lines. She hardly believed his story; and yet, why had Jacob and Mr. Dee looked at each other in that odd way when she asked if it was early in the season for Lakeside? And suddenly, she remembered the strange behavior of the two squaws. Had they known of trouble afoot? Then she shook herself. Surely there was nothing to fear. That night the baby had croup, and Zina trailed wearily up and down stairs getting water hot for steam, and warming flannels. At last she lay down beside him on her bed, and was almost immediately asleep herself. It was still dark when something wakened her. She leaned up on her elbow and listened, but the house was quiet to her straining ears, with only the crowing of an early rooster breaking the deep silence. She lay down again, and was just beginning to doze, when she jerked suddenly awake. Her heart hammered in her ears. Was that a sound from the kitchen? She remembered that she had left the outside door unbolted when she had gone to the well for water. It was several moments before she could put her feet to the cold floor, slip into her flannel wrapper, and creep cautiously downstairs. CAREFULLY, she pushed open the stair door, and peered into the. Kitchen. There, in the half light, she saw an Indian bending over her sugar can, his black hair stringing about his neck, and his body bare above the waist. She exerted all her power to keep from screaming, and the suppressed sound seemed to swell and throb in her throat. Above her panic, words began to form in her mind?there's nothing to be afraid of?it looks like old Novaris?and he's stealing my sugar. YOU ARE NEVER ALONE 683 The sound of scraping on the bottom of the can enraged her-the sugar, saved carefully for the grape jelly! She put out her hand and encountered the long buggy whip with which Jacob urged his bays to even faster trotting. Seizing it, she pushed open the door. "Novaris, get out of my sugar!" she called, brandishing the whip. Then her knees turned to water as she saw the startled, evil face of a strange Indian! One thought was uppermost in her whirling brain-to get him out of the house. "Get out?get out?get out of here?" she heard her voice loud above the hammering of her heart. She wondered afterward just what caused the Indian to turn and run from the kitchen, leaving the sugar in a thin white trail across the floor. She slammed the door after him, but all at once, her arms were so weak she could hardly lift the heavy bolt into position. At last the door was fast, and she could sink to a chair, covering her face with her hands. "Mama, what's the matter?" Millie's warm young hand on her shoulder calmed Zina's trembling.. "Nothing?nothing?just an old Indian stealing my sugar?" she tried to sound matter-of-fact, "but sh?don't waken the children?" With shaking hands, Zina began winding the dark braids about her head. Millicent had gone to the window. She gasped, "Mama. Look. Come here ?quick?" Never in all her life was Zina able to forget the sight which met her eyes, and long afterward, she would waken in the night and grow cold thinking of it. In the gray dawn light, she could see the dark line of Indians on horseback threading their way quietly down the drive-lane, and toward the lower pasture, where the remaining cattle were kept. "Mama-what'll we do?" Milli-cent's terrified whisper was loud in the silent room. Zina put her arm around her daughter. Her mind whirled with remembered stories of Indian atrocities, of burned homes, stolen livestock, even?but she dared not finish the thought. ? "They've come to steal the stock ?maybe the rest of the cattle and horses?" "Mama, mama! They might burn down the house. They might take us and "Sh?sh?We'll think of something?we'd better dress. But don't make a light?it might attract their attention toward the house. Oh, if only the children will stay asleep?" Trembling, hurrying, they dressed, glancing fearfully out the window at the Indians, now gathered in a group in the lower yard, their dark backs and brightly-colored feathered headdresses plainly visible in the increasing light. Zina spoke softly, drawing her daughter down beside her. "Do you remember what Brigham Young has taught the people??'In all your troubles, remember that you are never alone?the Lord will hear you if you ask him earnestly.' Kneel with me, Millicent?Dear Father in heaven, please give me strength in this hour of need, and please, please, send us deliverance?" AS they rose from their knees, there was a terrific shout from the yard, and the sound of milling hoofs. Then, above it, came the thin wail of the baby from upstairs, and the two frightened little girls came running to find their mother. In the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1945 confusion, trying to quiet their crying, Zina momentarily forgot her own fear. Presently, she held up her hand. "Listen?the noise in the yard has stopped?" "Mama! Do you think the Indians have gone?" "Well, if they have, they've probably-" There was a sudden loud knock at the door. Zina's heart came up into her mouth, and the baby puckered up his face to cry again at the expression on his mother's face. Drawing a deep breath, Zina opened her mouth to call out, but no sound came. There was another terrific knock, and then a voice, "Hello?you all right in there, Mrs. Gleason?" "Oh, thank Heaven-Mr. Dee-" Somehow, her fingers fumbling weakly, she unbolted the door, but not until he came in and helped her to a chair did she realize that tears were running down her cheeks. The children, who had been staring in stupefaction, suddenly set up a clamor. "Where's the Indians, Widdem-e-dee? Did you drive 'em away?? Where's papa?" He held up his hand, "One at a time, now. I came in from the Point of the Mountain day before yesterday, and heard the mutterings around town about Indian troubles. Of course, Mrs. Gleason, we knew there was something wrong when we started the cattle out so early in the season, but never did we think anything like this would happen. Well, I was talking to old Ike Harrison in the butcher shop, about you being out here alone?early this morning, just before daylight. I took a notion to ride out here. Good thing I did." "But the Indians? Did you?" asked Zina. I've?been out there talking to them. As you know, I never carry a gun; it's the best way. They've agreed to wait here until the ranchers return. I think it can all be settled. We've sent a rider out to tell them to hurry in from Lakeside." That evening, after supper, as Jacob relaxed with a child on each knee, he said, "Well, we made it-thanks to Dee. He certainly does know how to handle Indians?and incidentally?" he stroked his moustache to hide a grin, "we got in just a shade ahead of Peterson's outfit." Then his face became sober. "But your mother's a brave woman, staying out here, facing danger alone with you children." Zina looked up from her work. Her gray eyes met his steadily, and the firm lips curved only faintly to smile. Slowly, she shook her head. "No, Jacob. Never alone," she murmured. Wilt thou, our Heavenly Father, let thy presence be felt here always, that all who assemble here may realize that they are thy guests and that this is thy house. (Idaho Falls Temple Dedicatory Prayer) And For Eternity Olive Woolley Burt CHAPTER VI SYNOPSIS Delsa Marriott, jilted by Hugh Temple, decides to "make a play" for Alec Windsor, a marine on furlough. Jeff Holden, principal of the school where Delsa teaches, is interested in Delsa, but she feels that she can save her face better by letting her friends think she has fallen in love with Alec, and has thrown Hugh over for the new attraction. DELSA'S father got out the pickup truck to take them to the wedding because they had so much "truck," as he called it. Mrs. Marriott had made two giant freezers of ice cream, for no party was complete without some of this famous confection of hers. Aunt Martha had a huge chocolate cake. Delsa said, 'I'll walk over and meet you there." So they drove off with a clatter. Delsa tossed a shawl over her curls and went through the early dusk toward the hall. This was to be a real party, as Mrs. Lewis had planned, reminiscent of the parties they had when she was a girl. Lina's friends would serve while the older women took care of things in the kitchen. Later the girls would slip off home to change to their dancing frocks, while the men cleared the room. Delsa, of course, had plenty to do, so she was going over early. But others were there ahead of her. The men were putting planks on saw-horses to make long tables in the amusement hall. The women hovered about, white cloths in their hands, hurrying the men on. As soon as a table was set up, the cloth was laid and plates placed. Delsa smiled. It was a huge undertaking, but the women did not seem aware of that fact as they moved about laughing and talking. But Delsa noticed that there was a big difference between this and the last big party. Now there were no young fellows making a noise, teasing the girls, and doing a big share of the work. The older men sweated as they tugged in the planks, where before, the boys had done this job with a laugh. Delsa missed Millie, who had been her friend ever since they were children. But she knew that Millie and Alec had gone to the city with Jim and Lina and their parents, and that they would not be back until just in time for the dinner. Jeff Holden was there, with a crew of eighth grade and high school boys trying to take over the jobs their big brothers normally had. They were laughing and joking with the teen-age girls, and Delsa suddenly felt old as she watched them. She shook her head a little sadly and went out into the kitchen. They had all grown older, skipped a period in their growth, it seemed. Everything was ready by the time the newly married couple and their parents arrived. After everyone had shaken hands with them and kissed Page 685 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1945 them and wished them happiness, they all went into the long hall and sat down at the laden tables. There was a great deal of merriment during the meal?a few short speeches and toasts and a lot of wisecracking. Delsa, moving between kitchen and dining room, keeping her eyes on the girls who were serving, seeing that everything went smoothly, found little time to join in the repartee. But she did stop at the head table, where the bridal couple and their families and Alec Windsor sat, and watched them cut the towering wedding cake. THERE was an empty chair next to Alec and he said to Delsa, "This is your place, Delsa. Why don't you make use of it?" "Yes, Delsa," Millie cried, "sit here with us. You'll have to eat, you know, and I had them save this place for you." Delsa shook her head. "I like my job as overseer," she laughed, "and I get a bigger share eating in the kitchen." But Delsa was tired when at last the meal was over, and she was glad that she had earned the respite afforded by having to go home to change to her dancing dress. The Grayson girls, who lived a mile further up the road, offered to take her in their car as they slipped home for the same purpose, and Delsa gratefully accepted the lift. This would give her time to bathe and maybe lie down for fifteen minutes before going back to the dance. After her bath, though, she felt fresh and gay. She could hear the music coming from the dance hall and she found that she was im- patient to get, back there to dance with Alec. She was waiting for the Graysons when they stopped to pick her up again. The dance was in full swing when they entered the hall. The music set Delsa's nerves tingling, her feet beating time. She loved to dance, and Alec had promised to dance with her. She hoped he would see that she was there and would hurry to her. Just then he swung past her, dancing with Helen Ball, and seeing Delsa, he smiled and held up his hand in a quick gesture of greeting. As soon as that dance was over, he came across the hall to her, his steps and look eager. DELSA stepped out on the floor with him?felt his strong young arms about her, smelled the rough woolen fabric of his blouse, saw the band of campaign ribbons, even with her eyes, and she thought, why couldn't this be Hugh? Her arms tightened instinctively, and Alec's dark head bent just a little closer to her golden curls. They danced beautifully together, moving through the crowd with instinctive ease, so that it was almost as if they were alone on the shining dance floor. "You look like an angel," Alec whispered, "the kind of angel a fellow dreams about when he's alone in the jungle with danger all around him. The kind of angel that can make heaven become real with just a smile." Delsa laughed up at him. AND FOR ETERNITY "What a line!" she said. But the illusion that it was Hugh who was holding her close this way had been shattered. 687 Delsa sighed a little, and drew back, almost imperceptibly. Alec noticed it, however, and he said gently, "Don't be offended, Delsa. I mean what I say. But I won't talk any more," and he tried to draw her closer again, as she had been before. Delsa was sorry that she had betrayed her reactions so plainly, and to make up for it, she let him hold her close, and tried to forget that this was Alec Windsor, strange marine, with whom she was dancing. When Alec took her to her place again, he didn't leave her, but sat down beside her and watched the other dancers. He told her of the trip to Salt Lake that day, the things he had done, the sights he had seen. When the music started again he said, "May I have another dance, Delsa? Please? It's been a long time since I have enjoyed dancing so much?and it will have to last me for a long time when I go back." So Delsa danced with him again and again. It was wonderfully exhilarating, and she felt her senses tingling with excitement. Then she saw that others were looking at her, watching them together, and she grew a little uneasy. She wondered whether Millie was offended, what Jim was thinking. She wished someone would rescue her, and she began looking about for Jeff Holden. If she could catch his eye-As if in answer to her secret wish, Jeff came up to them after that dance. Delsa hadn't seen him since the dinner, but he had evidently been around somewhere in the crowd. Now he smiled down at her and asked in a cool, matter-of-fact voice, "Isn't this our dance, Delsa?" ALEC said, "I guess I will have to share her, but I hate to. She's the most wonderful dancer I?ve ever found." Jeff laughed good naturedly. "That's what we all think," he said, and led her out onto the floor. Delsa had danced with Jeff Holden hundreds of times. He was a good dancer and she had always enjoyed her dances with him. But as soon as he put his arms about her tonight, she sensed that there was a difference. She prodded her mind, wondering what that difference was. It wasn't Jeff's suit. The neatly pressed gray was as familiar to her as her own father's. It wasn't the way he held her, which was just the same as always, gently, tenderly?as if she were something precious, but familiar. Perhaps that was it, the very familiarity of Jeff's presence after the exciting strangeness of Alec Windsor's. At any rate, Delsa smiled to herself. She was relaxed and at peace?scarcely conscious that she was dancing at all. Jeff wasn't quite so tall as Alec, and his lips came just above her head. He had only to bend his head a little to bring his cheek against her hair, his lips close to her ear. He was bending his head now, and suddenly* Delsa was aware of an urgency that made Jeff's usually quiet voice vibrant. "So Windsor likes to dance with you," he said softly. Delsa shook her head. "He's lonely, Jeff. I feel sorry for him." Jeff's arms tightened, ever so slightly and he whispered, "Delsa, darling! Darling!" RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1945 DELSA remembered then that Jeff was lonely, too. He had lost his love, just as she had lost hers. He was holding her now, thinking of Lucy, imagining she was Lucy, just as she had thought of Hugh when she had danced with Alec. She felt tears along her lashes and she thought, what a mess it all is? all of us wanting something we haven't got?something we can't have! She wished she could comfort Jeff, but she didn't know what to say. They finished the dance in silence, but Delsa was suddenly weary of the party. She didn't want to dance with Alec again?to feel the excitement racing in her veins after this realization of her own and of Jeff's utter loneliness. And she didn't want to dance again with Jeff?to feel his lips against her hair and to know that he held her close, dreaming of someone else. She turned to him as they walked across the floor. ?I'm going home, Jeff. Take me to Dad and Mother, please." But her father and mother had already left the hall. Jeff said, "Wait here, Delsa. I'll get your coat." Delsa sat down on the bench that ran around the wall and looked at the dancers. They were still merry and noisy and she couldn't imagine why she was So tired, so utterly worn out. Jeff came back with her coat and held it while she slipped her arms into the sleeves. Then he took hold of one arm, turned Delsa gently toward the door, and walked out with her. "Don't you leave, too, Jeff," she remonstrated. "It's just a few steps. And thanks." But Jeff didn't let go of her arm. He walked along beside her, holding to her. "I've got to talk to you, Delsa," he said quietly. "I'm sorry, but it's got to be done. Tm in love with you, Delsa, deeply and truly in love with you, and I can't help showing it. Heaven knows I don't mean to. I know you don't like it?I can see you flinch, actually, and withdraw from me every time I come a little too close. You're thinking of Hugh Temple?and you're thinking that I'm pretty low to step in and try to take you away from Hugh when he's off fighting and unable to protect what is his. But I'm not trying to take you away from Hugh?I'm not going to take you away. I just want to explain so that you won't think too little of me." He stopped, as if at an end, and Delsa walked along slowly, wondering whether she should tell him about Hugh. It would be such a relief to tell someone. Jeff would understand; he would help her cover up the way Hugh had deserted her. JEFF went on, almost desperately, "I can't help loving you, Delsa. I've tried to help it and I can't. Since you've been coming in to look after the children, what was just deep affection has grown into ardent love. But don't worry, darling, please. Now that you know, maybe you won't mind? maybe you'll overlook-" AND FOR ETERNITY 689 Delsa turned to him and laid her hand on his arm. "Jeff," she whispered, softly, and before either of them knew what was happening Jeff had her in his arms, holding her close, his cheek pressed deeply against the soft luster of her hair. "Darling! Darling! Darling!" he whispered, but he didn't raise her face to his, nor try to kiss her. Delsa stood quiescent in the circle of Jeff's arms. She wanted to put her arms around him, to lift her face to his lips, to say, Jeff I?m lonely ?and I am alone. Love me, Jeff; heal the wound Hugh has made." But she couldn't do that. Up to this minute Jeff and all her world had thought she was betrothed to Hugh. How could she say suddenly, 'It's all right? I've just been keeping it a secret, but Hugh and I are no longer engaged. Hugh wants to marry someone else." If Jeff wouldn't be shocked out of his love for her, he would at least be doubtful of her honesty. He would not be able to comprehend her silence, her deviousness. At last, Jeff's arms dropped from around her and he stood back, silent and contrite. "You're lonely, Jeff," Delsa said miserably, "and I'm lonely. And Fm to blame. Coming to the house, being with the children, I've reminded you?" Somehow Delsa's lips wouldn't go on. She was suffering at the thought that she was merely a reminder of his dead wife. JEFF shook his head slowly. "No, Delsa," he said. "Let's not fool ourselves. I am lonely, lonelier now than I have ever been. But you do not remind me of anyone or anything. You are you, Delsa, and I love you?not because of a memory, but because of a dream of what might some, day be." They were at her gate now, and Delsa said soberly, "I am lonely, too, Jeff. I am so lonely that I would find it easy to take comfort in your arms. But I won't do it. You're too good for that, Jeff?you're too good for what I could offer you. Let's forget what you have said and be good friends, just as we were." He said, "I can't forget, but I will let you." "Maybe I'd better stop coming into your house so freely as I have done-" "And make the babies suffer for my clumsiness? No, Delsa, come, please. I'll keep out of your way." He laughed a little bitterly. "Go in; darling. Go to bed and dream of Hugh and when you awaken in the morning, think of this as part of a dream?a dream fostered by the warm spring breeze and the smell of growing things and the madness that comes with the awakening of the earth." She went up the walk and onto the porch. At the door she turned ahd Jeff was still standing there in the moonlight, watching her. She shut the door softly, and was glad that she was indoors and out of the reach of the spring night. (To he continued) THEIR TRYSTING PLACE Winnifred M. Tibbs (Ninety Years Old) The day was done, the sun had gone to rest, And in its place bright stars appeared To light the way. Then o'er the eastern hill The moon arose and spread her silvery light On hill and vale and set a magic spell. Can it be fancy that I see a small, old-fashioned gate, And leaning on the bar a form that waits As if to meet some dear one at the gate? It was not a maiden fair, as first I thought; Her hair was snowy white, her form was bent, And from her lips and cheek the bloom of youth was spent, And in its place a look of faith and sweet content. It seemed as if she did commune with someone near. I listened, and this is what she said: "This is our trysting place. It was here we met And pledged our troth to walk life's path together And be true whatever betide, in fair or stormy weather." And then she paused and whispered low, Yes, dear, I understand. Our Father called you home. And I was left to finish tasks we both began; And still I wait to comfort children dear; But when my task is done. Til meet you here. Together we will kneel at Father's feet and plead for grace." And while they thus communed, a cloud passed o'er the moon. And in the mist they disappeared, and I awoke and found It was a dream. No stars, no moon, no gate, not even a form. And yet within my heart I know it was their trysting place. Their meeting in the twilight's magic hour. FRO! Blanche B. Stoddard, General Secretary-Treasurer Page 690 Notes FROM THE FIELD Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes from the Field" appeal in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. SPECIAL PROGRAMS (Continued) Tooele Second Ward, Tooele Stake (Utah) "UNDER THE DIRECTION of the Stake Relief Society Board, the Tooele Second Ward sponsored a work meeting, Tuesday, September 12, 1944, at 10 a.m. All wards of the stake were invited to participate and a good representation from eight wards attended. "A very fine display of handwork was shown by each ward, along with the welfare assignment for the stake, which is entirely complete. A luncheon was served to ninety-four guests at noon, and at one o'clock a meeting was held, where the changes in the program of the work meeting for the coming winter were explained by stake board members. *'Several demonstrations were given in rug making, bias cutting, hose repairing, quilting, and handwork. We feel that an enjoyable and a profitable time was had by all who attended." WELFARE SEWING, TOOELE STAKE (UTAH) Standing, left to right: Stake Relief Society Counselor, Rebecca Oster; President Emma Hanks; Counselor Leona Boyce. Stake Board members, seated, left to right: Ida Hacking; Annie Rhone, Secretary; Ruth Bird; Jennie Walhn. Photograph submitted by Stake President Emma Hanks, Tooele, Utah Page 691 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1945 SPECIAL FEATURE of the Mothers' and Daughters' Day of the Tooele Second Ward Relief Society was the special honor given to twenty-six members who had served in the capacity of an officer, teacher, or visiting teacher for twenty-five years or more. The total number of years amounted to 905, or very close to an average of thirty-five years each. "A tribute to the courage, steadfastness, and faithfulness of these sisters was given by Mrs. Wilhelmina Hess. Each lady was presented with a corsage. Stake officers were in attendance. 'The daughters officiating at the meeting were: Rose Marie Mascon, president; Lorraine Bell and Zella West, counselors; Irene Sainsbury, secretary; Ruth Bird, organist; Bonnie Christiansen, chorister; Mildred Mercer, class leader. A musical program was given, and, in conclusion, refreshments were served and an hour was spent socially. "Following are the names of the honored ladies: 55 years?Harriet Lee 50 years?Etta Whitehouse 47 years?Cora Ekman 43 years?Agnes Johnson 46 years?Nettie Droubay 40 years?Emma Anderson 39 years?Addie Vowles 38 years?Kate Thueson 38 years? Selma Walters 37 years?Sadie Smith 37 years?Iona Smith 35 years? Clara Johnson 35 years?Millie Orme 35 years?Ethel Daniels 35 years? Hannah Gillispie 32 years?Annie Kone 32 years?Effie Lindberg 32 years ?Dora Bryan 30 years?Lucinda Jensen 25 years?Ellen Park 25 years? Ida McBride 25 years?Eliza Nelson 2 5 years?Minnie Smith 25 years? Mary Stephens 25 years?Luella Peterson 25 years?Joann Eliason Presidency: Rose Mascon Tressa Bracken Percy De La Mare SINGING MOTHERS, TOOELE STAKE (UTAH) Assembled at Quarterly Conference, April 1, 1945. Seven wards are represented. Chorister, Maud Groscrost; organist, Ruth Bird. Photographs submitted by Stake President Emma Hanks, Tooele, Utah NOTES FROM THE FIELD 693 PAGEANT THE GATE BEAUTIFUL" PRESENTED BY SPRINGVILLE FIFTH WARD, KOLOB STAKE (UTAH) Back row, standing, left to right: Mae Huntington, reader; Delphia Hardy, Max Robbins, Anna Stewart, Norma Rae Ostlund, Elizabeth Walker, Anna Jean Erdmann, Mattie Palfreyman, Jane Huntington, Beverly Robbins, Elaine Jones, Gwen Cutler, Alene Conrad and baby Linda. Front row, left to right: Wayne Cutler, (substituting for J. Reed Bird, who was unable to be present for the picture), Maurine Mortensen, Laura Cutler, Michael Erdmann, Belva Weight, and Maud Ferguson. Not seen in the picture were: Wilford Manwaring, the Voice of the Prophet; Carol Francis, Mary Lou Whiting, Dark Robbins, and Jeanine Robbins, the Troubled Souls. Photograph submitted by Zelma P. Beardall, Kolob Stake Relief Society President Fifth Ward. Kolob Stake (Utah) ZELMA P. BEARDALL, President of Kolob Stake Relief Society, reports a very effective presentation of 'The Gate Beautiful' a pageant by Mae Fridal and Maud O. Cook of Tremonton, Utah, which was published in The Relief Society Magazine' April 1935. "It was very beautifully and inspirationally presented March 4, 1945, by the Fifth Ward Relief Society of Kolob Stake in Springville, Utah, under the direction of President Alice Davis, Counselors Barbara Francis and Elen Erdmann, and Secretary-Treasurer Helen Robbins, with lighting effects by Ned Childs. The characters were chosen from every organization in the ward "Appropriate music was rendered by: Russel Palfreyman, violin solo; John Hardy and Floss Phillips, vocal duet; Kay Weight, tenor solo; Melba Wheeler and Evelyn Boyer, vocal duet; Ilean Bird, violin solo; Edgel Leigh ty, trumpet call. The accompanist was Wilda Oakley, with Carol Rawl assisting. "The ward was organized in January 1944, and was made up from part of the First Ward and part of the Fourth Ward. Since that time the Relief Society has earned through various projects, and presented to the building committee $800.00 towards the new meeting house which is to be erected on a site already purchased, as soon as priorities and materials permit." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1945 PRESIDENTS, PAST AND PRESENT, CLEARFIELD WARDS NORTH DAVIS STAKE (UTAH) First row, left to right: Susie Nelson, Mabel Steed, Pearl Burton, M. Hanks, Ellen Smith, Susie Wood, Ethel Layton, Katherine Parker, Elna Parks. Second row: Viola Maybey, Leone Adams, Effie Webster, Jane Nelson, Rachel Larsen. The photograph, submitted by Mrs. Lorin Park, was taken on the March 17, 1945, anniversary of Relief Society, at a special program given by the Clearfield First and Second Wards honoring the presidents of the original Clearfield Ward. THE FAITH I KNOW Linnie Fisher Robinson I face defeat, yet, in surprise, I find That even now I look to future skies; Before the ruins of my castle walls I sense that hope within me never dies. For I recall the beauty of my dream, The sweetness of each day with work to do, And though my labor netted naught, at last, There is a glory that my cause was true. And there is triumph in pursuit of such. Each memory can soothe my present woe; Moments more favored, that I?ve known, crowd close-This is not doubt?this is the faith I know. LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 13?Stakes of Zion Increased Dr. H. Wayne Diiggs For Tuesday, February 5, 1946 Objective: To suggest the firm and sure way the Lord has of extending his purposes in the earth. AS a people, the Latter-day Saints have always closely linked the temporal with the spiritual. To them, faith without works is dead. There can be no true religion unless the widow and the fatherless are visited, the naked clothed, and Church members hold themselves unspotted from the world. This practical wisdom found in the Epistle of James, the Prophet Joseph Smith applied in all his teachings. He always set his followers to work knowing that if they did good, they would be good. On August 2, 1833, only three years after the organization of the Church, the Lord gave a revelation to Joseph Smith which touched upon the practical plans for bringing about the future city of Zion (Doc. And Cov. 97). There was to be work ahead for the saints. In June of that year, labor had started on the Kirtland Temple. Presiding Bishop Edward Partridge shortly before had been sent plans for this. Also he received a blueprint in words of the future beautiful cities of the world. How effectually the cities would combine the aesthetic and functional may be seen by the following: The first city plat was to be one mile square, divided into blocks containing ten acres each, except the middle range of blocks, which were to contain fifteen acres each. All the blocks, except those containing schools and public buildings, were to be divided into half-acre lots, four by twenty rods each. The dwelling houses were to stand twenty-four feet from the street. The plat would accommodate from, eighteen to twenty thousand inhabitants, and they would need twenty-five buildings for schools and public worship. These buildings would be temples, and none would be less than eighty-seven feet by sixty-one. There were to be no barns or stables in the city, but these were to be situated on lands laid off for that purpose, on the north and south sides of the settlement. The farms would be situated east and west of the city, but the tiller of the soil, as well as the mechanic, merchant and others, would live in the city. Page 695 "When this square is thus laid off and supplied, lay off another in the same way," the Prophet wrote, "and so fill up the world in these last days" (ANDREW JENSON, Historical Record, page 635; see Doc and Cov. Commentary, page 751).
What room would there be for slums with their attendant political vice, vice, and crime in such cities? The farmer, the worker, and the professional man here might live in mutual fellowship for the good of all and of society. There, country and city life would be blended and the place of religion and education be one.
But who could plan and build such communities? Certainly not those motivated by selfish interests of worldly minds. These centers of spiritual and social life could only come from a people who were "pure in heart, for this is Zion" (Doc. and Cov. Sec. 97:21). Consider the words of the Lord, that Zion first is a state of mind, before ever it is a city or place upon the earth. God requires the heart as well as the hand. Without a first of these there cannot truly be a second. He has said he will plant the stakes of Zion throughout this land. Stakes in the first meaning of the word are pointed pieces of wood, to be driven into the earth as a mark for support to which may be tied lengthening cords used to hold above a flexible covering, adjustable to the changing conditions and needs of those who seek shelter beneath. In a religious sense, the meaning becomes even more significant. Stakes are territorial units of the land governed by presiding officers of the Priesthood of God, who plant within the marked boundaries the wards and branches of the Church, (which unitedly work for the common good of all the
souls who will be pure in heart). To set, therefore, the stakes of Zion would mean to build up the wards and branches of the Church from the standpoint of helping men to realize material as well as spiritual values. Ward chapels and stake tabernacles have with steadily increasing number been built within the large centers of urban life, as well as upon the rolling rural hills of the farm lands.
President Brigham Young, in realizing the wise and far-reaching effects of the Lord in setting the hearts and hands of his people to work in the cause of redemption, commended upon the Prophet's vision of this great work as follows:
It was a perfect sweep stakes when the Prophet called North and South America Zion. Let us go to and build the temple (i.e., at Nauvoo and then building) with all our might, that we may build up the kingdom when established and her cords lengthened. It is a perfect knock-down argument, some say; but to the old and faithful elder (and I may say member), who cannot if he is humble and diligent, build up the church (REMARKS, B. H., A Comprehensive History of the Church Cent. I, Vol. VI, page 502).
To bring about this sweep of stakes called for sacrifice and unselfish efforts on the part of the people of the Church everywhere. Filled with the zeal of the restored gospel, hundreds of saints found themselves on their way to the tops of the mountains. The country was wide and the stretch of sky distant. There would be room for all in this land God had prepared. As fast as sufficient numbers could gather, they were sent to colonize the fertile valleys in the domain rimmed round with majestic mountains. With each group went the organizing power of the priesthood to lead in the work of salvation:
... Arise and shine forth, said the Lord, that thy light may be a standard for the nations. And that the gathering together of my saints may continue upon her stakes, may be for a defense, and for a refuge from the storm, and from wrath when it shall be poured out without mixture upon the whole earth (Doc. and Cov. 115:5-6).
Books could be filled with the colorful stories that came to pass with the early fulfillment of these words. To relate but a few connected with the conquering of the intermountain region may stimulate the desire of the reader to hunt more such human-interest stories of the settlement of the West.
One cold January in 1878 where the turbulent waters of the Colorado River cut down through the solid rock below Lee's Ferry, a party of saints under the leadership of John W. Young lined the banks of the stream for a crossing into Arizona. Elder Young was on his way to organize the first stake of Zion there. The barrier of these waters called for sober judgment. More than one adventurer had lost his life in the whirling rapids that washed the canyon walls. But, as though by divine providence, the day the group arrived a bridge of solid ice spanned the danger zone. While the grip of winter held, the party could pass. First, the driven cattle were thrown, their legs roped, and then they were dragged sled-like over the slippery surface of the frozen river. Heavy wagons followed, often carrying 2,500 pounds or more. One ox was lost, being dragged by the chain of loaded oxen that followed their way into the sun-striped cactus
water at a wider place in the river where the ice had broken.
The colonizers continued to come several days after Elder Young and his party had made a successful crossing. Some distance above, at Lee's Ferry, Elder Anthony W. Ivins remained to help these saints across. He made the trip by ferry some thirty-two times.
Among the stories of Arizona's colonization is that of the Mormon Battalion and one of its men, Lot Smith. This soldier and elder later became the first stake president in Arizona. As his first counselor he chose Jacob Hamblin, who was known as the "apostle to the Lamanites" and "Leatherstocking of the Southwest." President Brigham Young instructed this understand-ing elder to feed and not fight his Indian brothers. In order to reach and own, Elder Hamblin often was forced to live on pine nuts. One time he killed crows for his food while on a preaching mission. He became known as a true friend to the Indians because they learned he never spoke with a "forked tongue."
As a member of the presidency of the Little Colorado Stake in Arizona, his kindness and understanding did much to make life enjoyable for the saints who lived the United Order in those communities. A bell called the group together night and morning for songs and prayers and often words of counsel from the brethren. Their work was done in common together.
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1945 The crossing at Lee's Ferry by the handful of Mormon colonizers in 1878 was but a beginning of hundreds of such migrations made by the saints on their way westward and their way into the sun-striped cactus lands of New Mexico; some pressed on across the arid wastes of Nevada; some braved the biting winds and snow of Idaho and Wyoming; and yet others scaled the rugged Rockies eastward into Colorado. The Rocky Mountain prophecy of Joseph Smith given that August day in 1842, while in his hand he held a cool glass of water that suggested. To him the clear streams of the West, was literally being fulfilled. Intrepid Mormon pioneers played a major role in bringing to pass his words, and in first setting the American flag in the majority of the intermountain states (Children's Friend, "The Stakes of Zion? April 1942). Since those early years of establishing the first stakes of Zion, there has been a steady and impressive growth of these ecclesiastical divisions of the Church. Zion has truly touched both shores of the United States, and enlarged her borders to include parts of Canada, Mexico, and an isle of the sea. At the close of the year 1940 there were 133 stakes of Zion, 1,055 wards, 92 independent branches and 24 dependent branches in the stakes. All the European missions were under the direction of local Elders and were carrying on with marked success under the stress and hardships occasioned by the great war. There were in the stakes of Zion 86,432 men and boys holding the Aaronic Priesthood and in the missions 15,547. There were also in the stakes 95,625 men holding the Melchizedek Priesthood and 9,730 in the missions. The proclamation of the Gospel had been made in nearly all parts of the earth and had been brought to the attention of kings, presidents, potentates and rulers. At the close of this year (1940) there were many signs given spoken of by our Lord as presaging his second coming [Essentials in Church History, page 647). Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggested readings given below, have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part of the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." 1. How literally have the saints taken the words of the Lord, "... Ye shall build up my church in every region" (Doc. And Gov. 42:8)? Make a study of the points of early colonization from Salt Lake Valley. See the map for Church History series found in July 1944 issue of The Relief Society Magazine. Also study the "Stakes of Zion" pages 679-683, Essentials in Church History. Are there any family names found on this list known to any of your class members? If so, what stories can such a member relate concerning the person or persons named? For additional facts of interest concerning the early years when the saints struggled to build up the stakes of Zion, read chapters 41 and 42, Essentials in Church History. Also see "The Stakes of Zion," in the Children's Friend, issues for February through June 1942. The articles for March and April are especially recommended for the lesson. As one approaches Idaho Falls, an increasing beauty of panorama of mountains and city meets the eye. The fertile Snake River Valley, with its golden fields of wheat, and potato fields browned by the recent frosts, stretches out to the north. The great river of history and romance comes winding its way to the Columbia, and enchanted with this scene of beauty, you find yourself at the gates of the temple.... ("The Temple at Idaho Falls," Levi Edgar Young of the First Council of Seventy. The Church News, September 29, 1945). LESSON DEPARTMENT 699 Visiting Teachers' Messages Sources of Strength?Charity Lesson 5?Charity Doth Not Behave Itself Unseemly Di. Lowell L. Bennion For Tuesday, February 5, 1946 Objective: To show how charity is tactful and courteous because it is inspired by a reverence for life. Jesus went unto the mount of Olives... And all the people came unto him... And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery;... They say unto him, Master, this woman was taken in adultery, in the very act. Now Moses in the law commanded us, that such should be stoned: but what sayest thou? This they said, tempting him, that, they might have to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground, as though he heard them not. So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. And again he stooped down, and wrote on the ground. And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one... And Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst... He said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee? She said. No man. Lord. And Jesus said unto her. Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more (John 8:1-11). This incident offers an interesting study in contrasting attitudes. The scribes and Pharisees were thinking of the law, of punishment, of tempting Jesus, and had no feeling for the inner life of the woman. Jesus believed in the law of chastity and even enriched its meaning (note Matt. 5:27-28), but he also had reverence for the soul of the woman. He replaced her shame with hope and faith. He handled the situation with tact and graciousness. Even after the multitude left he asked her no personal questions, but simply, "Where are those thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee?" Think of the hope, love, and gratitude she must have felt as she left with his gracious words to cherish in her memory: "Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more." (Notice, however, that he did not say, "Thy sin be forgiven thee.") Charity has a deep reverence for life and expresses itself with tact and courtesy so that it will not embarrass nor offend nor give pain to an already wounded spirit. A charitable person gives in such a way that the recipient is hardly aware of the distinction between giver and receiver. There is a gentle, quiet, spontaneous, courteous way of giving which is wholly uplifting in its effect. The secret of developing this type of charity is to keep in mind, not the giver nor the gift, but the need and joy of the person who is to be the recipient of one's love and good will. "Charity doth not behave itself unseemly." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1945 Literature The Bible in Our Literature. Lesson 5?Bible Influence as Revealed in Our Drama Dr. Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, February 19, 1946 ENGLISH drama had its beginnings in religion. After plays and pageantry had been banned for centuries because of the vileness to which they had sunk in fallen Rome, the priests began to introduce dramatic elements into church ritual. A simple portrayal of the story of the resurrection or of the angel and the shepherds and the coming of the wise men, might be given as part of the commemorative ceremonies of Easter and of Christmas. Other significant stories from the Bible also might be portrayed?all to bring the scriptures closer to the common folk. What began thus simply with the priests, gradually developed into more elaborate dramatic presentations. A calendar of holy days set by the church opened the way for remembering various events in the life of Jesus at different times of the year. Laymen, as well as priests, began to take part in these religious plays and many of them were performed outside the church. They offered recreation to help lighten the so-called Dark Ages. With the nearing of the Renaissance came other developments. Miracle plays, depicting legends connected with the saints, began to appear; with them came the moralities, or moral plays, in which the various virtues and vices were allegorically presented. In time, these dramas, intended to impress truth and righteous living, were given in the common language of the folk, and performed largely apart from the church. Then groups of "strollers," or wandering actors, would take the plays from village to village or castle to castle. Such a troupe of players, as many will remember, is employed by Hamlet when he would prove the king guilty of the crime that Hamlet feels he has committed. Naturally, with the gradual separation of the drama from church ceremonies, there came other than just religious themes into it. Expansion and development of the histrionic art, following the Crusades and the discovery of America, brought a "Golden Age" of play writing and play acting, especially to England. During the long reign of Elizabeth, the theatre flourished, and plays unsurpassed in dramatic and literary art were created. Those were days, remember, when the drama to succeed had to stand on its own merits. There were no such accessories as electric lights to flash rainbow effects round the players; no scenic settings nor music to accord with the varying emotions stirred by the play. Theatres, on the contrary, were rather crude affairs with a platform on which the actors played their parts. Below them, standing "in the pit," were the common folk; above, in circular rows of stalls, were the lords and ladies or other people of means who could afford seats. It took drama of gripping appeal to hold such an audience.
One playwright and producer who took the challenge in such a situation and succeeded marvelously was William Shakespeare. Not a great deal is surely known of his earlier life. He certainly must have grown up with the drama?probably taking active part in his younger days with strolling players, and helping to shape the plays themselves as he went from place to place. Some basic training such as this, added to his superb natural talent, gave him the wit and wisdom and the art that have made him the greatest dramatist of all time. That he has held the highest place is attested by the fact that for decades hardly a year has gone by without seeing his name on Broadway; and the further fact that thousands upon thousands of students are taught his plays year after year as the finest examples of drama ever created. They live for all time.
Something even deeper than mere genius must explain this phenomenon in literature. Quests to learn the inner secret of his art?and thousands upon thousands through the years have made the search?are about as conclusive as the efforts to learn how the firefly gives its light, or why the skylark rises to heaven when it sings. This, how-
ever, we do know of Shakespeare: he did create plays, a good many of them, that have brought stirring and uplifting entertainment to humanity through centuries. He has left mankind both thrilled and thinking.
May the writer be pardoned here the telling of a personal experience. His first real contact with Shakespeare came at a Saturday afternoon performance in the old Salt Lake Theater. Julius Caesar was the play. This youth sat entranced for two hours?and came out different. He bought a copy of the play, and for weeks thereafter was studying and reciting its lines. It was the beginning of a lasting love for great drama, and the setting of a helpful standard of appreciation.
Not long after that experience he saw another play in the same old theater, Gismonda, it was called. There were thrills aplenty in the colorful drama, with one of America's leading actresses of the day in the stellar role. It gave stirring entertainment, but not re-creation. There was no running out to buy the play, no reciting of lines ringing of truth such as these:
... lowliness is young ambition's ladder.

Cowards die many times before their deaths;
The valiant never taste of death but once.

His life was gentle, and the elements So mixed in him that Nature might stand Up and say to all the world, "This was a man."
?Julius Caesar
Shakespeare had the skill to portray life?outward and inward life; to create scenes that move and stir the heart and leave the mind informed. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1945 In Julius Caesar we have Brutus, the man of honor, the idealist, made a prey by scheming politicians. In this, as in all the best of Shakespeare's plays, w6 have situations, scenes, characters that are true to life for all ages. More than this, with unforgettable lines, this master voices truth for all time. There is no preaching of religion, yet in his plays sin does not triumph, but good is the victor even though the story ends in tragedy. Bible influence may always be felt and often seen in his words and lines and allusions to Holy Writ. Just a few illustrative excerpts will add concreteness here: The quality of mercy is not strained, It droppeth as the gentle rain from heaven Upon the place beneath. It is twice bless'd: It blesseth him that gives and him that takes. ?Merchant of Venice *o 4 O, how wretched Is that poor man that hangs on princes favors: And when he falls, he falls like Lucifer, Never to hope again, ?King Henry VIII Had I but served my God with half the zeal I served my king, he would not in mine age Have left me naked to mine enemies. ?King Henry VII Act I This above all: to thine own self be true. And it must follow as the night the day, Thou canst not then be false to any man. ?Ham Jet, Act I Shakespeare's plays, like Milton's epics, and like the Bible, deal with searching problems of life. They reveal sin in its ugliness, but only as a darker background against which virtue and nobility may be more impressively portrayed. His purpose, like that of all high-minded artists, is to inspire a love of the good, the beautiful, and the true. In all this he is in perfect accord with the Bible whether that source of inspiration is revealed openly or not. Successful dramatists since those days of Elizabeth, have followed the basic pattern set by the Bard of Avon. Directly and indirectly their best plays reveal Bible influence. Generally it is to be felt only in the spirit of the play as it vibrates in the scenes and in characters of noble, of lovable qualities. Outwardly it is shown in allusions and quoted lines from scripture. Occasionally, the theme may be taken from the Bible, or, as in the Passion Plays of Oberammergau, it may faithfully portray characters and scenes of Holy Writ. Within recent years the Bible story has been presented rather elaborately in pageantry and moving pictures. One such performance was "The Eternal Road," which was short-lived. Another, ?The Ten Commandments," portrayed the story of the escape of Israel from Egypt, the giving of the Commandments to Moses, and then applied all this in a modern drama. Will Rogers, after seeing this play, remarked, "It is easy to see where God left off in the play, and the movie-picture man began." The spectacle again was short-lived. People seem not to like to have the Bible preached at them, particularly in shows. A Biblical play of comparatively recent creation, which had a longer run" was "Green Pastures." LESSON DEPARTMENT 703 It was, as the author says, "an attempt to portray a living religion in terms of its believers." In this case, the believers were negroes of the Deep South, who with "spiritual hunger and true humility" have adapted the Bible to their everyday lives. Sincerity and reverence, such as one feels in the truly Negro spirituals, vibrate through the literal words, scenes, and characters portrayed. The play recalls lines from Longfellow's Hiawatha: Feeble hands and helpless Groping blindly in the darkness Touch God's right hand in that darkness And are lifted up and strengthened. Plays of the above literal type are not often presented. What usually is seen in the theater is just shows, dealing with folk in all their typical problems and life situations. Among the welter of these presented on the stage, in the photoplays, and over the radio, earnest search must be made constantly to find the few that do bring recreational uplift. It is not unlike digging for gold-one must generally shovel and wash away a ton of sand and gravel to get a nugget. Each one will doubtless recall some play or plays which have been like precious nuggets. Tastes differ, of course, in the drama as well as in other kinds of art. Yet, in the essentials, the play that wins and holds our hearts leaves a clean, wholesome aftermath. It may have been just for entertainment, but as such it brought pure joy and uplift. It may have presented more serious aspects of life; yet it left the audience with new strength and faith in man and God. It is only such dramas that are worth time. Everyone reading these lines will probably begin to list in mind plays that measure up to these standards. No two of these lists would be exactly alike, but that is immaterial. One the writer keeps in treasured memory is Maeterlinck's The Bluebird. It was an enriching experience to follow the two children on their quest for the bluebird, happiness, only at last to find it in their own home. Barrie's Peter Pan, as Maude Adams brought it to us, was another delight?just a sweet little story portraying the joyous, imaginative life of youth. More recently Sherwood's Abe Lincoln in Illinois with Raymond Massey in the title role brought audiences close to the real Lincoln during his developing years. "Honest Abe" speaks to our hearts through the lines. The Bible influence in his life can be felt; it radiates impressively in the beautiful prayer he made for the recovery of the little pioneer boy (see Relief Society Magazine, September 1940, page 577), and during other dramatic moments of the story. Another heart-lifting play, portraying the life of a great woman, who, with Lincoln, gave her best to help free the slaves, is Harriet. In this convincing drama, recently presented on Broadway with Helen Hayes in the part of the heroine, we are brought closer to the life of Harriet Beecher Stowe, and made to feel her masterful contribution to a challenging cause. Historical drama, provided it is created and acted with artistry, often rises to the highest in dramatic art. One of the leaders in the field of drama, a successful director of plays, an actor with talent as well as a scholar, was asked lately to name one or more current plays that stand out as great drama. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1945 "I regret,? was his reply, "that none I know of deserve that distinction except Shakespeare's Tempest/ now being played on Broadway, and the real play there is being obscured by too many scenic effects, too much light and music." "Of course," he continued, "we do have several clever light operas and other shows, good, bad and indifferent, which are gathering the crowds. Performances of this sort come and go all the time. They offer passing entertainment, but not recreational uplift." "Might not a little more Biblical influence in the modern drama be of help in getting plays of lasting worth?" came another question. ?Yes, if it is woven into the play with artistry. Remember, a drama to get and hold an audience, must be good entertainment, first of all. It may be such, as the masters have shown, and yet through fine character portrayal, and natural gripping dialogue, vital life lessons can be impressed. We need more of such upbuilding plays." "How can we get them?" "Well, concerted action on the part of home, church, and school to educate young and old away from what Shakespeare would call "dumb shows and noise," might: help. More good oral reading in the home, more community dramatics, more literary recitals would promote a taste for a higher type of drama than we are now wasting time and money to hear. As with music, this taste must be cultivated. Those who have control over the radio, the moving pictures, and the theater would, I believe, respond helpfully to such united effort for uplift." This leader's comments will have a familiar ring to Latter-day Saints. From pioneer days our people have been taught that every pure enjoyment is from the Lord, and that it is the abuse, not the proper use of such delightful means of entertainment as the drama, that constitutes evil. Wholesome plays have been encouraged for relaxation and recreation, to help us keep our elasticity and to renew our vigor for the sterner drama of life. Now, with allurements of commercialized entertainment in varied forms, there comes a new challenge to every home. A positive way to meet this challenge is to fight fire with fire. The love of uplifting drama, like the love of good music, begins at the hearthside. Mothers and fathers can begin the work and get closer to the hearts of their children through playing stories with them, by helping them get the best out of radio programs and photoplays. It is natural to carry forward these home joys into the encouragement of home dramatics. There should be more earnest group study of the drama by parents and teachers with the purpose of finding plays that are Bible inspired, that promote a love for the good, the beautiful, the true. Concerted effort not only to cultivate appreciation for the highest and best in the drama, but to have it produced on the stage and screen and over the radio, should bring richer, more uplifting returns for all. LESSON DEPARTMENT 705 Discussion and Activities 1. (a) Explain briefly what were the Miracle Plays and the Moralities, (b) In what ways do churches still employ dramatic presentation to impress the gospel story and gospel truths on the people? 2. (a) How did our English drama develop outside the church? (b) When did it reach its highest development in earlier days? (c) When was it abolished? Why? 3. (a) Be prepared to answer a roll call of the class with a line or two from Shakespeare in which there is an allusion to the Bible, (b) How else is the influence of the Bible revealed in the plays of the great dramatist? 4. (a) What is the essential difference between a play that merely entertains, and one that gives uplifting, lasting recreation? (b) Write on a slip of paper the name of a play that gave you just clean entertainment; and another that through some character, scene, or as a whole, left an inspiring life lesson. Hand the names to your teacher. 5. (a) What one basic test would you put to a play to determine whether it reveals Bible influence? (b) How can such influence be felt even though the play deals with sin and crime? 6. (a) What value is there in plays that offer just good humor and clean entertainment? (b) Why, even in plays intended for spiritual uplift, must there be choice entertainment to implant helpful life lessons, widely and well? 7. (a) What are basic teachings of our Church in regard to the drama? (b) In what practical ways has our Church tried to cultivate a love for the best in this great art? 8. Think through, and be ready to discuss each of the following as a helpful means of protecting young and old against baleful influences of unworthy drama, and of cultivating appreciation for that which is Bible-inspired. A?Story plays in the home li b?Oral readings of choice drama round the fireside c?Home and school dramatics d?Selective use of the radio in the home and school e?Better guidance in patronage of photoplays f?Group studies of worthwhile plays g?Co-operation with producers of drama on stage, screen, and radio, to assure more uplifting programs References Matthews, Brander, Development oi the Drama (Scribner's). Lamb, Charles and Mary, Tales oi Shakespeare, Deseret Book Co. Price Shakespeare's Plays. Some good, artistic, more modern play of your own tested choice. Pyper, George D., The Romance of an Old Playhouse, Deseret Book Co. Price $2.50 to Relief Society. (Used in Relief Society literature course 1937-38. Should be available in Relief Society stake and ward libraries.) Social Science Modern Applications of Moral Principles Lesson II?Women and Morals Dt. Harold T. Christensen For Tuesday, February 26, 1946 Lesson link: It was shown last time that there is a fundamental relationship between certain leisure-time activities and immoral conduct. The rise of abundant leisure for all classes during this machine age has presented mankind with both an opportunity and a responsibility. But too often leisure time is wasted in idleness or dissipated in debauchery, so that the opportunity it affords is lost and the responsibility it implies is ignored; too often "wreck-reation" crowds out real recreation. Suggestions were made for improving this situation by individual, family, and community effort. Lesson aim: To analyze some of the social and moral problems peculiar to women in this modern world, and to emphasize woman's moral role and responsibility in the field of ethics. 
ALTHOUGH the number of women in the world, under normal conditions, is just about equal to the number of men, the moral influence that they wield is probably much greater. This is because of two special advantages that women have over men in this respect: (1) Their position as mothers puts them closer to the developing child during his most impressionable years, which means that women have more to do with the building of character and the shaping of personality than do men. (2) Their womanly charm, or "sex appeal" as it is sometimes called, gives them a tremendous power and advantage over the male who, in respect to some of the follies of the flesh, might more accurately than women be called "the weaker sex."
But since every opportunity rightfully carries with it a moral responsibility, it is well to ask if women are using this special power which is theirs to good advantage or are turning it to their own selfish use. Are the women of today being good mothers, wives and sweethearts, true to the moral obligations implicit in these roles, or are they using their position and turning their opportunity to their own personal and selfish advantage? Some of each, no doubt, but enough of the latter to invoke real alarm and serious concern. It is primarily to mothers and the sweethearts of
men that we must look for the balance and guidance in morals so sorely needed in the world today.
Before attempting any criticism of contemporary womanly conduct, however, it will be well to try to understand the modern woman in the light of recent social trends. So great have been these changes in society that many women today find themselves confused or lost, not even understanding themselves. And to make matters worse, most discussions on "youth problems" deal only with the boy, and most of the literature on adult delinquency is concerned mainly with the male. It is time for people to realize that the adjustment problems of girls and women in this rapidly changing world are in many ways even more difficult than those of boys and men, and to realize also that one of the keys to morality is moral womanhood.
The Emancipation of Women
Historically, woman has almost always had a role in society inferior to that of man. This is not to say that she is innately inferior or has in any way deserved such a lowly station, but only that man has seen fit to use his greater physical strength and freedom to subjugate and abuse woman for his own self-gratification. And, as a consequence, in virtually all of the dealings between man and woman, man has benefited at the expense of woman. LESSON DEPARTMENT 707 Woman, for example, at times has been confined entirely to the home, deprived of property, bought and sold like chattel, beaten, killed, et cetera; and all because she was woman. But recently in the western world the general trend has been away from all of this, toward an equality of the sexes. Politically, in America, woman can vote and hold public office as well as can man. Economically, she can find employment outside of the home and can personally control her own income and property. Socially, she can enjoy many freedoms that were formerly the prerogative of "men only." Yes, woman has come a long way in her struggle for emancipation and equality. Even so, she has not yet arrived; the fight still goes on. Although there are few legal barriers keeping woman from public office, social disapproval has a very powerful restraining effect. Although woman can and does compete with man in gainful employment, she still, with a few exceptions, does not receive "equal pay for equal work." Although she is more free in the various patterns of social intercourse than she' once was, she is still watched more closely and judged more harshly when she oversteps than is man. There are still laws on the statute books of our states which discriminate against woman in the fields of property, profits, and morals. In these and many other ways America still treats its women in a similar manner to its racial minority groups, nominally equal under the assumption of democracy but actually inferior in the roles they are permitted to play. Some Consequences One of the unfortunate accompaniments of this equality trend is the tendency on the part of some women to mistake identity for equality. In their zeal for freedom many have deserted entirely their feminine roles and charms in order to better compete. They ape men in dress, in speech, in mannerisms; they prepare for and engage in the traditionally masculine jobs; they become coarse, crude, and vulgar. This masculinization of woman cannot help but lead to trouble for it is a perversion of the very nature of things. Since men and women are inherently different biologically, it is well also to expect personalities and social roles of the two sexes to be differentiated. The personal and social relationships of men and women should be supplementary and complementary rather than duplicative; co-operative rather than competitive. Equality is highly desirable, but equality does not require identity. It is entirely possible for men and women to be equal and still be different; they can be equal, each within his own field. An unfortunate consequence of this trend toward equality is the development of extreme individualism and independence on the part of some women, an independence so strong that it ignores responsibility and precludes co-operation. This is not to say that woman should necessarily be more dependent than man, but neither more independent. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?NOVEMBER 1945 As woman finds her rightful place side by side with man, the masculine ego will have to adjust somewhat, and rightly so. But let the woman who is wise be neither too impatient nor too aggressive. Arguing, being obstinate, making demands, acting independently, fighting?these do not make one equal or free. Equality is more than the assertion of equality. The question of a career versus a home and family is often difficult for some women to decide. And there is no one answer that will apply in all cases. Some women are successful in having both; either stopping for a short career before starting a family, or fitting it in along with the family, or settling down to a career after the family has been reared. All of these arrangements present difficulties, but the last named is most likely to succeed. Some women choose a career in preference to a family; and some, without any real opportunity for marriage, turn to a career as a second choice or a substitute. A great many women wisely look upon homemaking as a career and, by focusing attention and energy upon their responsibilities as wives and mothers, are able to make the greatest contributions to the moral welfare of society that it is possible for woman to make. Motherhood is the one function that is reserved exclusively for women, and yet, in their scurry for recognition and equality, many are deserting or neglecting even that. Employment and career activities outside of the home are justifiable if they can be successfully fitted in to a happy home life, but for every normal woman the home and family should come first. Men and women should be equal, but it should be a differentiated equality; both sexes should be free, but it should be a responsible freedom; women should be active and creative in their own right, but it should be a co-operative individualism that spurs them on. The Prostitution of Womanhood There are a great many women in this modern world who want the freedom that equality promises without accepting the obligations entailed. They seek for special privileges, for rights without responsibilities; and in order to obtain them they are ever ready to prostitute their virtue, to sell their birthright for a "mess of pottage." Figuratively speaking, they want to have their cake and eat it too. But the idea itself is as wrong as are the selfish and sometimes cowardly methods used to try to bring it about. There is a basic difference between the emotional nature of men and women, a difference that should be well understood if the moral issue we are here talking about is to be recognized. Sex passion is natural and real for both sexes; but with the male it is more elementary, more constant, more easily aroused. Women's sex nature is more complex, more involved with the emotional and mental processes, more easily controlled. This difference helps explain why man is more frequently the aggressor, and the offender, in the field of sex. It also explains why woman's influence is so profound in the lives of men. There is nothing that can contribute to a man's stability and success like a good woman; and conversely, there is nothing that can contribute to his downfall like a bad woman. LESSON DEPARTMENT 709 Man, then, in some ways is weak, weak where woman is strong; and he needs the strength of woman to help him through. But, unfortunately, there are those women who are willing to use sex selfishly, use it as a power device for control over men, use it as a weapon to fight for selfish advantage. Here are some of the ways: (1) They resort to flattery, coquetry, and deceit to lead man on. (2) They cry when they don't get their own way, or otherwise appeal to the man's affection or gallantry in order to control him. (3) They wear clothes which accentuate the anatomical features peculiar to their sex, and they similarly use language and actions designed for erotic suggestion and stimulation. Sometimes these things are done innocently, with a simple desire for attention from the elusive male. If so, the girl may wonder why masculine eyes follow her down the street or why her partner becomes so amorous. But other times it is done deliberately, with the cause and effect relationships well understood. (4) They "gold dig" in courtship, offering favors in intimacy as payment for the money spent; or they marry for money, exchanging sexual favors for a life of leisure and luxury. (5) They enter commercialized prostitution, or they engage in one of the various sexual rackets whereby they seek to extort money from respectable citizens by threatening to smear their names. It is only this last category that is commonly referred to as prostitution; but actually all of these ways in which womanhood is used to unfair advantage could logically be so called, for in all of them virtue and right are "sold" for selfish advantage. Women, too, often leave their natural personalities relatively undeveloped and rely simply upon sex or physical charm to attract men. This is a mistake, for while it gets attention it certainly does not get respect, and after a time even attention is lost. Great women are those who, through the attainment of social and emotional maturity, demonstrate their greatness by the very dignity and power of their personalities. No need for them to quibble about equality or to let down moral standards in order to get along in the world. Conclusions Although the emancipation of woman has confused woman's social roles and led to some moral blundering and considerable exploitation, it has also cleared the ground and laid the foundation for a better world. Woman of today, for the first time in history, has the real opportunity of being man's partner rather than his servant or his slave. Equality for woman is in sight, but if it is taken as mere license it will become a liability rather than an opportunity. Woman's standards of morality are still higher than those of man. Man still looks up to good women for guidance and strength and inspiration. May the time never come when this ceases to be, for man needs the tempering and chastening effect of wholesome womanhood. Woman has a particular moral mission to perform in the world today, a unique opportunity, a deep responsibility. May she not fail! RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE? NOVEMBER 1945 Problems for Thought and Action 1. Do you agree that women wield a greater moral influence in the world than do men? What two advantages do women have in this respect? Elaborate each. Is the problem of adjusting to the changing world as difficult for women as for men? Discuss pro and con. 2. What is meant by the emancipation of woman? From your knowledge of history give examples of the low status of women in earlier societies. Trace the woman's rights movement in this country. Give present day examples of woman's inequality. Do you think she will ever be entirely equal with man? J. Show how the equality trend has often meant the masculinization of woman. Criticize this tendency. Show how some women mistake license for freedom. Criticize. Contrast the double and single standards of morality and show in which direction society is moving. Defend the single standard and discuss ways of obtaining it without lowering morals. How has the emancipation of woman sometimes resulted in the development of extreme independence and individualism? Evaluate this tendency. Analyze the problem of careers for women. Why should the home come first? 4. What is meant by the prostitution of womanhood? Show how the emotional natures of men and women differ. Why does this fact give woman a special moral opportunity and responsibility? What is a great woman? Why do so many women fail to reach real greatness? Selected References Standard Works: Bible: Proverbs 11:22; 31:10-31. Writings by L. D. S. Authors: WIDTSOE, John A., "The Mormon Woman," The Relief Society Magazine, Vol. 30 (June-July 1943) pp. 372-375. WAITING SPRING MabeJ Jones Gahhott The days of garnering from fields and trees Are finished. On my shelves in jaunty rows Are bright tomatoes, amber peaches, peas, And somber grapes and jams. Now autumn goes To join the season's great processional, Her russet cloak already brown and sere; Fall winds and rain sing earth's recessional. Soon winter's ermine garment will appear. And in this time of ending tasks and sleep, And seeming death, when dormant seeds in dry Cool places wait the spring's return and keep Their silent tryst with earth and winter, I Too, wait, rich memories stored within my heart, Until our spring, when we no longer part. PRAYER OF THANKS Eva Willes Wangsgaard I?thanked thee other years, dear Lord, For flowers and fruit, For beauty that the years afford From seed and root. This year I thank thee for the peace That faith can hold, For love that grew a sheltering fleece Against all cold, And for the wound my heart received. J I murmured when It came, but learned that while I grieved I grew. Amen. He A NIGHT WITH THE WIND Lottie Hammer Singley Oh, could there be a thing more drear, more doleful Than wind with a coyote's voice and phantom sound That breaks upon the shadowed realm of night Like some wild, questing thing unbound? He strums weird tunes upon my open shutter, And morbidly he flutes my chimney pipe. Chants mournful dirges round my cottage corner; North Wind, be still, just for tonight! In fitful tones the strain continues. With tom-tom beats, he drums upon my sill. Makes windowpanes his clanging cymbals Till sun calls out a fervent ?Peace be still." Page 711 TIDE Myrtle E. Henderson I watch the tide come in on Monterey Bay? The tide come in from the ocean gray; It surges and leaps up over the land, Then slowly recedes with its burden of sand; But the tide leaves the seaweed, the jellyfish, crab-In colors of rose-pink, white, dark green, and drab, And there's beauty in some beyond words to compare In the sea dollar's star and the clamshell rare. Some are fragments, broken and torn apart. Mute tokens of beauty in nature's lost art; They are left on the beach where we frolic and play Wlien the tide has gone out on Monterey Bay. Is the tide like our lives from some ocean beyond. Fathomless, deathless, going eternally on. Each wave a new life as it breaks on the surf And contributes its bit?good or bad?to the earth? Some lives are mere symbols of what might have been. And others are wrecked by their burden of sin, But some lives there are with a perfect design Like my sea dollar's star, my clam's luster and Tine. They have given their best, be it great, be it small. And unselfishly served for the good of us all; When their tides go out and their sands slip away. There is more beauty left than I found in the Bay. Page 712 The Beloved King James Version ?? National BIBLES AT YOUR BOOKSTORE M-U-S-IC SPECIALLY SUITABLE FOR RELIEF SOCIETY I LOVE A LITTLE COTTAGE (O'Hara) .15 FLAG WITHOUT A STAIN (White) --.15 FORGET ME NOT (Bach).10 GOD IS LOVE (Shelley).12 ALICE BLUE GOWN (Tierney)...20 PEACE I LEAVE WITH YOU (Roberts) .10 Above numbers in octavo. Less 10% discount, plus postage. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 47 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 To be perfectly at home with The Doctrine and Covenants use the Concordance To The Doctrine and Covenants By JOHN V. BLUTH of the Church Historian's Office $3.00 A comprehensive, accurate, thorough guide to thousands of passages DESERET BOOK COMPANY "THE BOOK CENTER OF THE INTERMOUNTAIN WEST" 44 East South Temple Street, P. O. Box 958, Salt Lake City 10, Utah When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine ; Let us be Thankful for the days of bounty Life insurance dollars usually come from surplus earnings when they are at their highest, and are returned to dependent families?or with interest to the original purchasers to cheer their later lives. FDR DAYS DF BOUNTY May we therefore be wise, save part of our current income and invest it in life insurance where it will come back to us when needed most. BENEFICIAL LIFE Home Office ? Beneficial Life Building Salt Lake City 1, Utah Gorge Abert Smith. 