VOL. 32 NO. 10 Lessons for January OCTOBER 1945

THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Monthly publication of the Relief Society of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints

RELIEF SOCIETY GENERAL BOARD
Belle S. Spafford President
Marianne C. Sharp First Counselor
Gertrude R. Garff Second Counselor
Blanche B. Stoddard Secretary-Treasurer
Achsa E. Paxman
Mary G. Judd
Luella N. Adams
Anna B. Hart
Edith S. Elliott
Priscilla L. Evans
Florence J. Madsen
Evon W. Peterson
Ann P. Nibley
Leone O. Jacobs
Leone G. Layton
Velma N. Simonsen

RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE
Editor Marianne C. Sharp
Editorial Secretary Vesta P. Crawford
General Manager Belle S. Spafford

Vol. 32 OCTOBER 1945 No. 10

Contents

SPECIAL FEATURES
Frontispiece Photograph Mount Oberlin, Glacier National Park, Montana Glen Perrins
Family Prayer Elder Mark E. Petersen 579
Shall I Be an Active Member of Relief Society? Kate M. Barker 583
The Fight Against Infantile Paralysis Must Continue Frank S. Emery 592
Our Public Buildings Howard Barker 595
"An Unweeded Garden" Caroline Eyring Miner 604
Flowers and Fruits for the Table Adele Matheson 609

FICTION
The Bottom Drawer Ruby Scranton Jones 588
And for Eternity (Chapter 5) Olive Woolley Burt 606

GENERAL FEATURES
Sixty Years Ago 600
Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon 601
Editorial: "Comfort Ye My People" Marianne C. Sharp 602
"The Autumn Hails Anew" Marianne C. Sharp 603
Notes to the Field: Relief Society Singing Activities Encouraged 605
Notes from the Field: Special Activities (Continued) General Secretary-Treasurer Blanche B. Stoddard 615
Work Meeting Plan Now for Christmas: Dolls and Menageries Out of a Scrap Bag 622

LESSON DEPARTMENT
Theology: Building an Empire in the West Dr. H. Wayne Driggs 624
Visiting Teachers' Messages: Charity Vaunteth Not Itself, Is Not Puffed Up Dr. Lowell L. Bennion 628
Literature: Bible Influence as Revealed in Our Narrative and Epic Poetry Dr. Howard R. Driggs 629
Social Science: Leisure and Morals Dr. Harold T. Christensen 634

POETRY
Walk down a Road in Autumn Frontispiece Anna Prince Redd 577
Prayer Edwin C. Bliss 582
Challenge Mabel Jones Gabbott 587
"Follow Me" Rose Thomas Graham 594
October Magic Jeanette P. Parry 599
Tawdry Jade Courtney E. Cottam 605
Orphaned Dott J. Sartori 612
Ochre Leaves Ruby Baird Andersen 614
Patterns Norma Wrathall 623
Midas of Autumn Margaret Jenkins 639

PUBLISHED MONTHLY BY THE GENERAL BOARD OF RELIEF SOCIETY
Editorial and Business Offices: 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, Phone 3-2741. Ex. 243. Subscription Price: $1.00 a year; foreign, $1.00 a year; payable in advance. Single copy, 10c. The Magazine is not sent after subscription expires. Renew promptly so that no copies will be missed. Report change of address at once, giving both old and new address. Entered as second-class matter February 18, 1914, at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah, under the Act of March 3, 1879. Acceptance for mailing at special rate of postage provided for in section 1103, Act of October 8, 1917, authorized June 29, 1918. Manuscripts will not be returned unless return postage is enclosed. Rejected manuscripts will be retained for six months only. The Magazine is not responsible for unsolicited manuscripts.
MAGAZINE CIRCULATION, 74,000


THE RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE VOL 32, NO. 10 OCTOBER 1945 WALK DOWN A ROAD IN AUTUMN Anna Prince Redd A special kind of enchantment Steals over the autumn earth; The tang and the taste of autumn Are a fabulous pennyworth. Fields lying warm and yellow Hold wigwams of tasseled corn; The breeze is persuasive and prankish, Apple-spiced as it blows from the thorn. Then a day when the leaves are scattered And the and is a restless sigh, Tuned to the night with a portent The heart cannot deny. But the harvest is warmly cradled Against the coming cold; Oh, spirit, fly South with the swallows. Only the flesh grows old! Walk down a road in autumn Through a flaming sumac lane, Cleanse your soul in its burning. Cool your pulse in its rain. Rejoice in the prodigal sowing. There remain the bud and the root.... Your daughter shall walk in the autumn, Your son shall gather the fruit. The Cover: The cover is from a photograph by T. J. Howells, M. D., "Sunlight on Oat Sheaves." Family Prayer Elder Mark E. Petersen Member Council of the Twelve FOUR little girls of Bee-Hive age spent a week together last summer in an M.I.A. sponsored home in a nearby canyon. On arriving at the home, they were assigned to a sleeping room large enough to accommodate all four of them. With joyous anticipation they unpacked their things and prepared for a week of genuine vacation.
That first night before retiring, one of the girls brought up the subject of saying evening prayers. What were the girls to do about it? Should each one say her own secret prayer? Should they all pray as a group? Or should they do both?
It required little time for solution of the question because all of these girls came from praying homes. They decided that each night and morning they would kneel together as a group, each one taking a turn in being voice. In addition, each girl would have her own secret prayers. That was the custom at home. So the girls prayed together, and they had agreed separately, not allowing even a vacation to interfere with their devotions.
Is there a father or a mother anywhere, who would not be proud of little girls who were thus true to the faith? And is there a ward or a stake which would not be proud of parents who thus teach their little ones to pray?
A marine fighting on a Pacific Island was commanded to take his men through heavy fire into an extremely dangerous position to destroy Japanese emplacements. Before going, he and some of his men knelt in prayer. He wrote home:
As we started from the protection of our foxhole, a strange thing happened. All enemy fire lifted. We completed our mission. We then returned to our foxholes. We had no more than got well down in them when enemy fire opened up again, but we were safe and sound. We were praying and thanking our Heavenly Father for so openly answering our prayers and protecting our lives. How great are the blessings shed out upon those who diligently seek his help.
When boys and girls pray as did these young people, there is a reason for it. They had been taught to pray, even from infancy. But while they were thus being taught they learned something else as well to have faith in God, and to exercise that faith in bringing down upon themselves the blessings of heaven.
Where were they taught this faith, and where did they learn to pray? In their homes with their families, as father, mother, and children knelt together night and morning expressing their gratitude to the Lord for blessings already received, and asking for his continued help and guidance, protection and care, in the days and nights to come.
Page 579 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE OCTOBER 1945 Latter-day Saints recognize that as a people and as individuals, we have one principal purpose in life, and that is to work out our salvation here on the earth and to teach our children and others who will listen to us to do likewise. We work out our salvation by keeping the commandments" of the Lord, by participating in the program of the Church, by following and sustaining those who preside over us, and by being loyal and true to the trust that is placed in us by our Heavenly Father. FAMILY prayer provides one of the most important means of accomplishing this great purpose. Let us first look at family prayer from the standpoint of the children in the home. As parents we have been commanded to teach the gospel to our children, to convert them to its principles, and to rear them in its light, habituating them to the mode of life advised by the Church. Our children need teaching and converting just as much as do those to whom we preach in the mission field. They do not bring with them into this life a knowledge of the gospel. They must acquire it here. President Grant at one time illustrated this point by saying that both he and his wife had a good working knowledge of the multiplication tables at the time they were married, but this gave them no assurance that their children would be born with a knowledge of the multiplication tables. The children had to be taught those tables, and how to use them. He said the same thing holds true with regard to a knowledge of the gospel. Children are not born with any such knowledge; they must acquire it here in mortality. There is no place where the gospel can be presented more effectively to children than in the home, and no persons are more interested in having it thus presented than are the parents. Family prayer can form the basis for the religious education of our children if we choose to make it so. Through family prayer, little children can learn of the existence of God. They can learn that by praying to the Lord, they can obtain the blessings they need. Through family prayer and associated instruction in the home, we may point out to our little ones that obedience to the Lord is an essential part of seeking blessings from him, and that if we believe in him, and obey his commandments, we are in a favorable position to pray for and receive the blessings we need. Through family prayer we may teach our children gratitude, that all good things come from God, and that we owe him our thanks for these blessings. Many there are who have never learned to pray, but we can teach our little ones how to pray as we hold our regular family prayers. They see and hear us pray, and when their turn comes, and they take active part, they learn to do by doing, and as they continue on they establish prayer as a daily habit in their lives. One of the most important features of family prayer from the standpoint of the children is that to which Jesus referred during his brief ministry among the Nephites. Said he: Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye must watch and pray always, lest ye be tempted by the devil, and ye be led away captive by him... Pray in your families unto the Father, always in my name, that your wives and your children may be blessed (3 Ne-phi 18:15-21). With the multiplicity of temptations that confronts our children today, it is a great source of consolation and comfort to know that we are united in spirit and that family prayer fortifies us and our little ones against Satan. "Pray always," said the Savior, "LEST YE ENTER INTO TEMPTATION, for Satan desireth to have you that he may sift you as wheat." This one thing alone should bring every family to its knees in humble prayer day by day. Can any family afford to be without it?
There are many other factors of importance in family prayer many other blessings to be obtained through its proper observance.
If a family prays together regularly and humbly, those family prayers will go far to preserve mutual love and good will among the members of that family. Can a husband and a wife kneel together and unitedly appeal to the throne of grace, having their hearts melted by the spirit which accompanies fervent prayer, and not be drawn closer together, in case of domestic trouble in the home? Can they fail to solve their problems amicably if they will be humble themselves in prayer before each other and before the Lord, and pray together for mutual understanding? Can misunderstandings between parents and children continue under the sweet influence of sincere family prayer? The spirit of prayer is the spirit of peace, the spirit of good will, the spirit of charity and mercy. It is the spirit of love which is the spirit of God.
FAMILY prayers help to keep the family in remembrance of its obligations to and covenants with the Lord. We, as Latter-day Saints, are pledged to "always remember him" that we may always have his spirit to be with us. Families who remember these obligations will not be disobedient to the commandments. They will not be found among the numerous waves of the world; they will not be listed among the Sabbath-breakers, nor among those who violate the Word of Wisdom or the law of chastity. They will not be teaching their children disobedience by holding before them an example of disobedience. Rather, they will be among the stalwarts of the Church, upholding the program of the Church, keeping the commandments and working constantly in the work or stakes.
Family prayer brings into the home the spirit of prayer, and any family which is actuated by the spirit of prayer is actuated by the spirit of God. Persons who leave a house of prayer each morning should carry with them an attitude of good will and fair play, of doing unto others as they would be done by; of righteousness, having a distaste for evil. In that way they may come to understand the meaning in the Savior's words: "Pray always lest ye enter into temptation."
Where family prayers are held in sincerity and humility, the hearts of the members of those families are moved by a desire to be in harmony with the Lord and his servants. Where such a spirit prevails, there is no criticism of the bishop or the stake president, and there is no denunciation of the general authorities, for such criticism is out of harmony with the spirit of prayer. When persons refrain from criticism of the brethren, they resist one of the
apostate tendencies against which the Prophet Joseph has warned us.
Where family prayers are held with devotion, the home is not given over to activities which are opposed to the spirit of prayer. There is no drinking or smoking there, no vile stories, no unchanneled dealings, no lying nor backbiting, nothing unseemly. On the contrary, the home functions are conducted on a high plane where the habits of life are clean. Have you considered what this is worth in the rearing of a family?
It is the desire of the Church to see character built into the souls of
full of faith, devotion, and integrity. Sincere family prayer will help tremendously to bring this about. Can we neglect so great an opportunity?
If we as a people will hold family prayer in our homes with regularity, with faith and humility, and then establish habits of life in keeping with our prayers, the windows of heaven will be opened and such blessings will be poured out upon us that we can hardly contain them. Many of the problems which now vex us will fade away, life will be sweet indeed, and not only will we ourselves be benefited, but we will be as a light upon a hill, a beacon to all mankind. PRAYER Edwin C. Bliss To some, a prayer is mere routine, A boresome obligation. Prosaic offering of thanks. And unfelt adoration. Such praises, sung by grudging lips. Can never reach the throne; For God cares not for prayers made up Of words and words alone. A prayer must be a consecration, Heartfelt and sincere; A faith that, though the load be heavy, God is ever near; A willingness to work and wait As through the years we plod. And place our life entirely Within the hands of God. Shall I Be an Active Member of Relief Society? A Question Which is Vital to Every Woman in the Church Kate M. Barker Former Member Relief Society General Board 
AT the dedication of the science hall on the campus of one of our large universities, a student guide explained to the group he was conducting, "In this room the tables for these sensitive instruments are stone pillars built on solid rock. If we are to get accurate readings it is necessary to have a foundation that goes down below the vibrations, shocks, and jars of the earth's surface."
When the news came of the restoration of peace to the world, we received it with humble, prayerful thanksgiving. For five long years we had prayed for this moment, hoping that if the opportunity were given us again we would build a better world. The war has been a major spiritual shock. For five years we have seen the result of the greed, false pride, and selfishness that was the war's antecedents. Every day the press and the radio have brought us graphic accounts of man's "inhumanity to man." So shocking have been the devastating events of the past years, that evil has seemed to far overshow good and we have become almost fearful of life.
At the same time that peace came we realized we were facing a new age a stupendous new age, the fruits of which, when the reactionary forces will be harnessed for man's
destruction or blessing. When the voice of the President of the United States came over the radio announcing the dropping of the atomic bomb with its resulting terrible devastation and loss of life, the first universal reaction was one of fear. "It is a harnessing of the basic powers of the universe," came the voice of the President, and we stood awestruck, fearful. Verily "men's hearts failed them."
"Can truth and goodness triumph?" we ask. "What does the future hold for our children?"
As in the case of the delicate scientific instruments, in times like these man's spiritual nature must be anchored on solid rock. Unless the foundations of our faith are so anchored, the contemporary shocks of world affairs will find us confused and fearful; and our reading of life's scales will be only surface readings and not accurate readings.
The challenging words of our Savior to his disciples can be applied to us. "Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith?" And the comforting words, "And this word, Yet once more ... signifieth the removing of those things that are shaken ... that those things which cannot be shaken may remain" (Heb. 12:27).
Our faith, then, assures us that now after the world hurricane has
passed, we shall find that the things of real value have survived. Beauty will remain beauty in earth and sea and sky; beauty in art, music, literature; beauty in character, in life. Truth also will remain. Goodness will survive. God still lives and will guide our destinies if we but let him and are willing to cooperate. We have lost some of our worldly assets, but the real values will carry through. They will survive for all to choose who will.
So the present, instead of making us despondent, should be a challenge. Surely we are thanking our Heavenly Father today more gratefully than ever for the gospel and for his Church. Surely now more than ever our testimonies seem priceless, and we are resolved that their foundations must go deeper and deeper until "surface shocks" of life cannot weaken them. Now we know that the thing we desire above all else for our children is a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ, a testimony so strong that it will be the motivating force always in their lives, a testimony and faith anchored so deeply and solidly that it will stand against all life's storms.
The use to which these tremendous forces which have been harnessed will be put, will depend on us. It will take intelligence. Such an age as we are facing demands strong people, a people who have faith in God, in mankind, and in man's destiny. We realize that the world is going to be filled with confusion, problems, and great demands.
No generation of women has ever faced greater responsibility. The home must be the nucleus for the better world; and the home cannot
be protected by merely negative ethics you must not do this, you must not do that. We must build a more definite, constructive faith in the basic, eternal, guiding principles of life. We must know as never before the divine plans for our happiness and welfare. Surely, the women of the Church, having faced the horrors of the war years, are resolved that henceforth their homes shall be built on the solid foundation of faith and, having seen the world suffering from so much that is false and ugly, are resolved that, insofar as they are able to control, only truth shall enter the home such truth as gives beauty to life and dignity to mankind and to human relationships.
WOMAN has a great responsibility in setting standards and maintaining the spiritual and cultural level of the home and community. Our Father in heaven, knowing our needs to meet this responsibility, has been kind to the women of the Church. He has given them an organization of their own in which they can seek all those things that are "virtuous, lovely, and of good report" as the Prophet said, "according to their natures." We do not learn best by ourselves added understanding, added appreciation comes with contact with the ideas and experiences of others.
The knowledge most worthwhile is certainly an understanding of the greatest needs of the beauty in the gospel, which is God's plan for our happiness. We could study all the greatest literature and no doubt never new beauty would unfold. As our knowledge and testimony increase, life takes on new meaning and beauty.
Our Relief Society gives us the opportunity of a course of study that has been prayerfully planned and as broad as life itself spiritual, cultural, practical. We can be sure that only truth is contained therein, that everything given is worthwhile. Facts alone may be cold, but when interpreted in the light of the gospel, they take on glorious meanings. Our Relief Society teaching is done in "the light of the gospel."
Today, we must seek our happiness in a world where experiences, in a variety of ways, are continually attacking our faith and menacing our homes and our chances for a satisfying life. The modern tempo is characterized by an acid type of cynicism which does not believe that anything in the world is worthy of our serious allegiance. When people feel this way, not only marriage ties but all human relationships lose value, and life loses its sense of direction. And yet in every human soul is a longing for loyalty to something outside ourselves. The dictators have capitalized on this innate longing in their appeal to the young. "Cynicism is defeatism applied to ideals." We can best be protected from it by the atmosphere of a loyal group working together for worthy ends.
So, active membership, loyalty to the Church is the finest safeguard against this defeatism, and all the resultant things that are cheap and shallow. The lack of intense loyalties to worthy causes is one of the great spiritual losses of modern times. Most parents desire greatly that their children belong to and feel a loyalty to their Church organization; yet, sometimes to us, we that the things they say and do, the
loyalties they show, forge themselves into a pattern for their children, and children are influenced most by those whom they love most.
Moreover, seeing is believing. We of the older generation whose parents or grandparents sacrificed so much to be true to the Church, have a background whose influence can seldom be entirely lost. We may become inactive and apparently indifferent for awhile, and then in later life repent. But what about our children who have seen only our disloyalties? President George Albert Smith, in a recent talk in Bonneville Stake, told the story of the son of one of our brethren who drifted away from all Church activity. In later life he realized what he was missing and returned to the Church, but found that his interest in the Church or its ideals could be aroused in his children. As President Smith said, "He could repent but he could not repent for his children." In the fine lives of our children is our greatest joy, and in their failure is our greatest sorrow, especially when we realize that some fault of our own has contributed to that failure.
We can be no greater than our loyalties. The women of the Church have a divinely organized, divinely guided organization which is deserving of their greatest loyalty.
FRIENDSHIP is one of the finest spiritual experiences and one of the greatest needs of the human soul. We find strength in companionship. Loss of sincere, loyal friendships has been another of the spiritual losses in our superficial, material-minded, modern age. Relief Society offers the opportunity for building close, warm, sincere friendships with women who will share their courage, vision and faith with us. The world is crying for greater understanding sincere friendships. We of the Church must demonstrate that true friendship can be had that groups of women can organize work together, study together, in understanding and sympathy the joy of one bringing joy to all, the sorrow of one bringing sorrow to all, the reputation of each being the concern of all. Spiritual life flourishes in such deeply knit groups. The Prophet Joseph Smith, when organizing Relief Society, promised, "If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates." Are we missing this great blessing because of lack of unity and because of the apathy of some to sense their responsibilities? What great spiritual benefit, what great strength to the Church would surely come if, in every ward, all the women were united in such groups!
Adults do not grow unless they serve. The opportunities for service in Relief Society are many. Someone has said that in service one and one are more than two but two together can accomplish more than two working alone. There is power in united effort, though the individual contribution may be small, yet if each does his share a few hours, what a wonderful contribution their united efforts make to the great Church Welfare Plan. Our little becomes part of a great whole.
The average attendance at Relief Society meetings is low. There is too often the feeling that absence from meetings affects only the members who absent themselves, that
ization can never realize its highest potentialities until every woman senses her responsibility, that there is an influence, a spirit, an interest and enthusiasm which the alone can give, that there is a definite plan and need for her at each meeting.
An unusual custom is observed in a small English country chapel at evening services. At the end of each pew is a candlestick. When the family is not constantly uses that pew is ushered in, the candle is lighted. When the family is not present the pew remains dark. When we are absent from meeting our place remains dark.
To every woman of the Church our Father in heaven has given the opportunities that come in Relief Society, and every woman has the responsibility for the success of the organization. As members of the Church we must choose opportunities and responsibilities are ours. There can be no question as to that. The only question is, will each one of us gratefully seize these opportunities, and will each one of us gladly accept our responsibilities?
Today, there are many avenues of activity for women outside the home. But we have limited time and energy we must choose wisely and spend it well. It seems especially true of mothers that there is often confusion when they leave home, unless some responsible person can make for the children the little while she is away. Every woman needs mental stimulus, spiritual enrichment, friendly associates. How necessary it is that we get our values straight that our life's perspective be right and that we attend our activities accordingly. The hours spent in Relief Society are not hours selfishly spent. We put our market basket on our arm, as it were, and go forth to obtain food, spiritual food, to share with the family.
IT is therefore vital that every woman in the Church should ask herself the question, "Shall I be active in Relief Society?" Each one should get her values straight and answer fairly.
Why Should I?
Because I want a living, growing testimony of the gospel and an understanding of woman's nature. The Relief Society lessons and discussions help me in this understanding.
Because I want to continue my education along the lines I most need. Relief Society offers an educational course which as the Prophet said is "according to woman's nature."
Because I want intellectual and spiritual contacts with women of like ideals. Relief Society offers me these contacts.
Because I need sincere friendships. Relief Society offers me the opportunity for forming such friendships.
Because I want to get all the truth and beauty I can. I want life to be meaningful. Everything offered in Relief Society is worthwhile.
Because I need help in being a homemaker. Relief Society gives this help.
Because I want to be associated with an organization deserving my greatest loyalty. Relief Society, divinely organized and divinely directed, is worthy of my greatest loyalty.
Because I am thankful for the blessings the Church has brought me, I will show my appreciation by my activity. I want happiness and satisfaction in life. Our Father in heaven has told us to meet together often as sisters. I will follow his advice.
Because I wish to serve. In Relief Society my little becomes a part of a great service.
Because I have the opportunity of joining an organization which, in origin and nature, is different from all other women's organizations.
Because I want to face life eagerly and courageously, my faith, my loyalties must be so firmly anchored that I can read life's values accurately.
These are but a few of the answers that come so probably our question should not be, "Shall I be an active member in Relief Society?" but, "Can I afford not to be an active member?" CHALLENGE Mabel Jones Gabhott These words He gave to man, His challenge, rich and true; "Love one another. Even as I love you." The Bottom Drawer Ruby Scranton Jones MAJEL hurried home as soon as school was out. It was Wednesday, the day Bart's letter came, and the thought of it had made her day bright. Yes, there it was on the hall table where Grandma always put it. She carried it to her room and began to read. She smiled at the salutation, "My darling little Sweetheart," but soon frowned as she read, "There'll be three weddings right after graduation. Why not make it four? Please, don't say 'no.' It's what I want most in the world. I'll have two weeks' leave and then I report at a field on Long Island for three months' bomber training. We could be sure of that much time together, at least." Majel sat in her little rocker, the letter in her lap. What was Bart thinking of? He must know a teacher couldn't run off that way without giving notice. Then there was Grandma. What would she do? Just then Grandma stopped in the doorway. "What's the matter, Honey," she asked. Majel looked up into the wise old blue eyes so like her own young ones. "Bart wants me to come to Texas and marry him next Wednesday. He should know I can't do that." "Of course not," Grandma said indignantly. "Such haste wouldn't be decent." "But how to tell him, that's what bothers me." Majel took up the letter and started to read again. "Scold him good for suggesting Page 588 such a thing." The little old lady dismissed the problem with a shrug. But it wasn't so simple as that. Majel and Bart had gone together since high school days. She had worn his fraternity pin since they had been juniors in the university. They had planned their life together in long, earnest talks. They knew just what kind of house they would build to accommodate the hoped for children. Always there had been a place for Grandma in their plans. When war came Bart became a pilot, not a lawyer, and they decided they would not marry until the war was over. All evening Majel worked on her answer. She explained what the principal had said about the disloyalty of teachers who left to make more money or to get married, and how she had promised to finish out the year. She told how Grandma had had several heart attacks and could not be left alone. She wrote the letter over and over but the last version sounded no more convincing than the first. Wednesday, Majel sent a telegram of congratulation to Bart. She had no letter that day but, of course, she thought, Bart would have been too busy to write. And then on Saturday she heard that Bart was home home without letting her know so she could meet him. Why would he do that, she wondered, when we haven't seen each other for nine months? He must know this is as hard for me as it is for him. SUNDAY, Majel did not go to church. She wanted to be home when Bart called. She spent an hour arranging her soft black curls in the even rows he liked. She put on a new blue suit and then changed to a rose wool dress that he had said he hoped would never wear out. And still there was no call. At last she went to her room and sat staring out the window.
After dark, when she had almost given up hope, the bell rang and Bart was there. He said, "Hello," as though nothing had happened and kissed her on the cheek.
"Lieutenant Winters," she said, stepping back to look at him. "How you do set off that uniform." She touched the gold bar on his shoulder. "And how tanned you are. Or is it that your hair has bleached in the Texas sun?"
"A little of both," he said, following her into the living room.
She wanted desperately to throw her arms around him and tell him how proud she was, but the unusual coolness of his manner restrained her.
Just then Grandma hurried in. She pulled down his head and kissed him. "Bad boy," she said. "Surely you wouldn't want Majel to be one of those war brides."
"Well," he said flushing, "we've been engaged long enough, haven't we?"
"What kind of marriage would that be?" She shook her finger at him. "You've plenty of time. Why, Majel's not twenty and you're only twenty-one. You're just children." She went out, leaving them laughing but annoyed.
"Oh, Bart," Majel said as he sat down beside her. "You must see
that I couldn't break a contact. Teachers are impossible to replace and I promised to stay." She turned to look at him but he wouldn't meet her eyes. "And I just couldn't leave Grandma when she's not well." Still he didn't speak. "Don't you see, Bart, I just couldn't do it?" Her tone was pleading now.
"No, I don't. You've always said marriage meant more to you than anything else." His voice rose in anger. "Now you say a job is more important or your Grandmother." When Majel tried to speak, he hurried on, "I want you to be my wife before I have to go. Is it too much to expect?" He got up to pace back and forth, his gray eyes stormy.
MAJEL reached out to stop him, but he stepped aside. "Bart, dear," she said, "you know how I love you and how much I want to be your wife. But what kind of marriage would that be for either of us? I wouldn't be happy because I would feel guilty, and you wouldn't be happy feeling you had persuaded me to do something wrong. We've got to plan for all the years ahead, not just for three months."
"Yes, and while you're planning, I'll be out there fighting and probably getting killed."
"Don't, Bart, don't." She covered her face with her hands.
Bart stopped in front of her. "Well, marry me then if you care so much."
"There are so m many reasons why I can't," she sobbed.
Bart snatched up his cap and started for the door. Then he turned. "I might have known it was that bottom drawer you cared for," he accused, "and not me." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE OCTOBER 1945 He went out and slammed the door. Majel sat a long time thinking. How could this have happened to her and Bart who loved each other so much. And what was it he had said about her "bottom drawer?" Majel had been left' an orphan when she was six and had come to live with her father's mother. The old lady had kept the little gid from being too lonely by telling her stories of Ireland. The one most sure to interest her was about the Irish girls who set aside the bottom drawers of their dressers for their hope chests. So Grandma had taught her all kinds of needlework and together they had crocheted doilies, embroidered towels, hemmed napkins, and wrapped them in blue tissue and put them away in the bottom drawer of the old dresser. As the years passed, under this influence, she had come to look upon marriage as the sole interest of her life. When Barton Winters moved to their town and began to show his preference for her, Majel accepted him as the fulfilment of all her dreams. And then her bottom drawer held an added interest. She worked vacations to buy the finest sheets and pillow cases to monogram. She pieced quilts of intricate pattern, crocheted a bedspread, and lastly learned how to weave a tablecloth as dainty as a spider web. The bottom drawer had long ago become an overflowing cedar chest. She had told Bart about it as he watched her sew in the evenings they spent at home. He had shown pride in her work. "My little housewife," he had said, "my little old-fashioned girl." But tonight, Majel thought, he had not been proud of her. He had been disappointed and angry like one of the little boys she taught. "DART came back the next evening and apologized. He laughed it off and took her to a movie. Tuesday evening she wanted to stay at home but Bart said they should go calling. Wednesday, they decided to have a real party with dinner and dancing at the hotel. For the first time since his return, Bart seemed natural and happy. They had given their order and Bart had just said, "Let's try this dance," when Milly Andrews, a girl they had known in school, came in with another officer. When she saw Bart she hurried over. "Hello, handsome," she said. "Why didn't you let your friends know?" She nodded to Majel and introduced her escort. "Why can't we sit here, too?" she asked, so Bart drew out a chair for her and they all sat down. All through the university, Milly had made no secret of her liking for Bart. When the orchestra started a particularly snappy tune she said, "Oh, Bart, that's ours," and jumped up. Bart looked at Majel with raised eyebrows, so she nodded. There seemed nothing else to do. Lieutenant Jackson turned to Majel. "Do you mind not dancing?" he asked. "I'm hardly up to it. I'm just out of the hospital." For the first time Majel looked closely. At him and noticed how pale he was. "Of course not," she answered. "It's too fast for me anyway." With her usual kindliness she set about to entertain him, but with half her mind she kept thinking, why, Milly would marry him tomorrow if he asked her. THE BOTTOM DRAWER 591 When the dance was over, more friends came in, so they pushed two tables together and the evening became a reception for Bart. Majel enjoyed the repartee, the dancing, two things she had missed while Bart was away. He was very attentive and she soon forgot the unhappy incident which had threatened to spoil the evening. At midnight Majel stood up. "Fm sorry," she said, "but I have to work tomorrow." "Oh, yes," Milly laughed, "the little school-teacher." Her voice showed plainly the scorn in which she held the whole profession. "Why don't you take her home, Bart, and then come back?" "I guess not," he said as he held Majel s coat. "I d just be extra." "An extra man's not to be sneezed at these days." Milly shook her blond bob becomingly. All the way home Majel kept thinking, why couldn't we have had the evening to ourselves. I might have been able to explain things. I might have been able to convince him. She lay awake a long time wondering if Bart had gone back to the hotel. Should she be more demonstrative? Should she try to make Bart jealous? It would have been so easy with Lieutenant Jackson. No, no matter what happened to her she would never be like Milly. But should she forget her scruples and offer to marry him? What could a nice girl do to hold the man she loved? On Bart's last evening he was having dinner with Majel and her Grandmother, when Mary Stuart, an old friend, came in. She was incoherent with excitement but they finally gathered that she was leaving the next day to marry a man she had met the summer before and seen but twice since. "But, Mary, you hardly know him," Majel said in shocked surprise. "And how could you live on a private's pay?" "Why, I know him better than Fve ever known anyone," Mary answered indignantly. "And as for living, Fll get a job. A stenographer can get work anywhere." OART got up from the table and patted her shoulder. "Good girl," he said. "You're doing exactly right. If you want him, better grab him before some other girl does." Mary smiled and said "Thanks. That's the first good word I've heard." Majel thought, that's what he really believes. That's how he wants me to be. He can't see the difference between Mary's problem and mine. Bart left early because he was taking a midnight plane and he didn't suggest that Majel see him off. He kissed her and told her that he would write soon. She might have been just any girl he had taken out a few times. She cried when he was gone because the ten days had been such a failure. He knew, of course, that school would be out in three months, and the chief obstacle to their marriage removed, but he hadn't mentioned it. And he hadn't given her a ring. Of course, she still had his fraternity pin but a ring seemed so much more definite. She couldn't sleep, so she got up (Continued on page 613) The Fight Against Infantile Paralysis Must Continue Frank S. Emery Utah State Representative, National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis  POLIOMYELITIS, commonly known as infantile paralysis, is caused by a virus, infinitesimally small, which lives on the nerve cells of the living body. The future activity of the victim depends upon the extent these nerve cells are affected.
Now, when we think of an epidemic, most of us are beset by fear that drives all reason from us and causes us to say and do things that, on sober thought, we never would do. With any sickness, it is wise to be careful and clean, but, with any sickness, it is foolish to become panicky. Poliomyelitis is a contagious disease, but, according to our present knowledge, it is not nearly so contagious as previously assumed. However, under our statutes, a polio patient must be isolated during the acute period so that he will not expose others to this serious infection.
It is believed by the medical profession that poliomyelitis virus is transmitted by common vectors or carriers. Dr. John R. Paul, an epidemician at the University of Utah, who has had considerable experience in epidemics, states that a survey which he made indicates that in the 1945 epidemic were traceable to four hundred cases reported during of contracting the disease through
direct contact is much less likely than formerly supposed.
However, there are now hundreds of victims of infantile paralysis who need care and attention from trained personnel, and hundreds more this year will swell the ranks of those afflicted with this dread disease. Early diagnosis and specialized care are essential to the well-being of a polio patient.
Physiotherapy is now a must in the treatment of poliomyelitis. Under the direction of competent physicians, physiotherapists are helping patients to recover from this disease and assisting crippled victims to do the things which heretofore have been regarded as impossible. Through the efforts of our medical men and women, hundreds of boys and girls, who might have been hopelessly handicapped, now have the use of their arms and legs, and, from all appearances, are normal men and women.
Technicians must be recruited and trained without delay. To this end, the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis has outlined a program for the recruiting and training of physiotherapists who will be available at the call of qualified physicians.
The Foundation has set aside the sum of $1,267,600 to be used for training men and women in the art of physiotherapy. These scholarships are now making it possible for people interested in the healing arts to acquire not only a dignified and lucrative profession, but also to become of immeasurable help to their fellow men. The National Foundation is very anxious that these scholarships be used.
The field is not limited to the treatment of poliomyelitis, but similar methods of treatment are being used in practically every branch of medical science. As our knowledge of diseases and their cause progresses, the need for physiotherapists becomes more obvious.
Scholarships for nine to twelve months' training at approved schools of physical education, covering expenses, books, and transportation, according to the needs of qualified students. Candidates for this specialized instruction must be capable of classification within one or more of the following groups:
(a) Graduates of approved schools of physical education.
(b) Graduates of schools of nursing.
(c) Students who have completed two or more years of college work, including twelve semester hours in biology and the basic sciences.
Anyone interested in these scholarships should communicate with the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, Inc., 120 Broadway, New York City 5, New York, or, more directly, with the local state or county chapter.
For the hundreds who are now being helped by the limited force of properly trained nurses and aides, thousands of the healing arts are needed. There are not enough trained people
care for those now afflicted and the many others who will undoubtedly contract the disease in future epidemics.
In the treatment of poliomyelitis, the application of hot-packs from the beginning is now an essential process. These hot-packs, depending upon the condition of the patient, must be applied from four to twelve times a day. In case of an epidemic, we do not have enough trained people to do this work.
There are many women who lack the educational requirements and the time necessary for becoming professional physiotherapists. These women may help in the fight against infantile paralysis by training themselves as aids in the nursing profession. In this way many mothers and many future mothers may learn the healing arts of hot-pack application and bedside nursing.
There is only one center in Utah offering proper training for nurse' aids in the treatment of poliomyelitis at the present time. A program has been outlined whereby each county will send to Salt Lake City at least three women for a tentative intensive course in hot-packing and beside nursing of infantile paralysis victims. Several competent and experienced physicians, assisted by various social service and nursing groups, will supervise this essential training. The expenses of the women will be carried by the auxiliary chapters of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis which have been organized in every county in Utah. Living quarters will be provided. When these women have completed their training, they will be asked, under the direction of the county medical authorities, to organize classes and train other women to be prepared in case of an emergency. Remember the needs of our children. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE OCTOBER 1945 Volunteer in the service of the healing arts. No mother knows when the dread poliomyelitis may strike one of her own children. If she has had training in the essential nursing procedures, a mother may render her child a service that might not otherwise be available. If you are unable to get in touch with your local chapter officers, contact the State Representative, Room 250, Union Pacific Annex, 19 West South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, or telephone 3-3126. Let us go forward in the fight against disease. Let us protect our children and care for them. It is today that we must prepare for the emergencies of tomorrow. "FOLLOW ME" Rose Thomas Graham As Jesus walked with men along The shores of Galilee, There must have been a little child Who played there by the sea. As Jesus, standing on the Mount, Taught men, whose hearts were stirred, There must have been a little child Who hearkened to his word. As Jesus struggled up the hill Beneath his heavy load, There must have "been a little child Who stumbled on the road. As Marys gathered round the tomb Where their Lord Jesus lay, There must have been a little child Who knelt alone to pray. Our Public Buildings Howard Barker Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds, Salt Lake City Schools THE other day a five-year-old boy was "helping" his uncle with some carpenter work. The plane, Yankee drill, and other tools were very attractive. Without any preliminary discussion of the line of thought, the lad said, "When you die, can I have these tools?" His experience of the past two years in losing a father and grandmother had taught him that things outlive people. " This might be called axiom number one in our evaluation of public buildings. Axiom number two follows very logically: of all the works of man, public buildings are among the most enduring. In spite of the disintegration of time and the elements, and even of world wars, the pyramids of Egypt, St. Peter's in Rome, the leaning tower in Pisa, and countless other structures built many generations ago are still with us. But how valuable are our public buildings? NORTH AND SOUTH EIGHTEENTH WARD, ENSIGN STAKE, SALT LAKE CITY Chapel Built 1901 Page 595 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE OCTOBER 1945 Are they worth maintaining in good condition? Or, is it less expensive in the long run to do. as many of us have done with our automobiles, get as much use out of them as we can for a short time and then turn them in on new ones? Some of our public buildings have been designed and built to last and serve a long time. Examples of this type in Salt Lake City are the temple, the Utah State Capitol, and the L. D. S. Church Administration Building. These can be expected to be practically as valuable after a hundred years as when they were built. They will require relatively low maintenance expenditures and they are not likely to suffer rapidly from obsolescence. They are examples of axiom number three: the better the construction, the less the cost oi maintenance. But let's talk about the average church, or school, or library, or city hall. When most of these were built their builders were probably thinking in terms of a useful life of about forty or fifty years. Many of these structures are well past that age. But, since they have been maintained fairly well, they are worth more dollars today than when built. Worth more dollars today? That's a pretty strong statement. But if it is true, Our buildings are certainly worth maintaining at a high standard. What are the facts? The present worth of a building can be fairly accurately determined if we know three things: (1) the year in which it was built, (2) its original cost, and (3) a logical estimate of its depreciation. For example, $42 bought as much in 1890 as did $100 in 1926, or as did $127 in 1944. Putting it another way, each $100 worth of building in 1890 is now worth about $302, or each $100 worth in 1926 is now worth about $127. That is, this would be the relationship if we neglect depreciation. But suppose the 1890 building should now be depreciated by fifty per cent. It would still be worth about one and a half times as much today as when built. We can then state axiom number four: buildings become worth more as the purchasing power of the dollar declines. Now as to depreciation. There are two major factors: wear and tear due to use and the elements, and obsolescence. Both of these factors can be largely overcome by replacing worn parts and by functional remodeling to meet current needs  To give an idea of the relationship of depreciation costs to total building valuations, the values for the Salt Lake City school district might be interesting. There are now about fifty buildings, having a total 1945 valuation of about $11,500,000. Many of these buildings are now more than fifty years old. But, due to lower construction costs when they were built as compared to now, and to the consistent spending of maintenance money for the improvement or replacement of floors, roofs, heating, plumbing, ventilating and lighting equipment, etc., practically all of these buildings are worth more dollars today than when they were erected. The total maintenance cost for a fifty-five year period has averaged about $1.25 per $100 valuation per year. In this connection, however, it should be kept in mind that the valuations used for this comparison have been based on annual appraisals of present value which take into account variations in construction costs, and also as accurate depreciation data as are available. ST. GEORGE STAKE TABERNACLE, ST. GEORGE, UTAH Built in 1875 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE OCTOBER 1945  What about deferred maintenance? When a building needs painting, repairing, or the replacement of any part, nothing can be saved by waiting. In fact, deferred maintenance will not only increase the ultimate maintenance cost, but will eventually wipe out the capital investment. There's an old saying that When you need a thing you pay for it whether you buy it or not." Let's list that as axiom number six. Its author must have had a life-long experience maintaining buildings. Our discussion thus far has all been on the logic of maintaining our public buildings from the standpoint of economics. The facts overwhelmingly indicate that as long as a building is worth using it is worth maintaining. We cannot afford otherwise. But there is another point. Our buildings are our children inanimate, yes but we have created them. Our care of them is a pretty good index of how we live and how we think. Enter a strange house by the back door, and by the time you have reached the kitchen you will know what the living room will look like. Or, walk into the boiler room of a public building and you will know the custodian (and maybe the fellow the custodian works for). Yes, our public buildings are built to be used and enjoyed. In their planning and construction let us seek the best architectural and building talent available. Harmony of mass, color, and line can typify our culture and our hopes. FOURTEENTH WARD, SALT LAKE STAKE, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH Chapel Built in 1857 Good quality materials and workmanship can indicate our stability and our wisdom. But only good care can prove our thrift and our appreciation of the fine things of life. And, in the final analysis, this appreciation is measured in terms of such simple things as a broom, some soup, a hammer, a plane, a Yankee drill, a bucket of paint and a will to do.  Yes, Sonny, you can have my tools when I die, but remember, we can build a building in a year, but we have to take care of it for a century.  OCTOBER MAGIC Jeanette P. Parry October, the roving gypsy. Is here in my garden again, With scarfs of exotic color To tie on the hillside and glen. The valley wears a grape-blue veil, To hide the sadness in her heart; It is hard to see October go And with her jocund spirit part. Through dreamy, shifting, opal days The river dons a silver coat, And hosts of gold and crimson leaves Upon its placid surface float. The sun climbs down the autumn sky And leaves a flame-like afterglow, Soon winter's biting winds may sweep Across the frozen wastes of snow. Sixty Years Ago Excerpts from the Woman's Exponent, October 1, and October 15, 1885 "For the Rights of the Women of Zion and the Rights of the Women OF All Nations" GIRLS, DON'T MISTAKE BRASS FOR GOLD: The bestowal of the affections of a woman is a strange subject, perhaps, to dilate upon, but one which, in my estimation, should be dwelt upon and discussed far more than it has hitherto been, for by the bestowal may come joy and happiness, or woe and heartache. Who would wish for shadow when she could have sunshine?... Then why should we not be more wise and discreet in the choice of a husband, when, by the selection, may come life-long sorrow, tears, and wishes for an early grave.... Then we should be careful not to mistake brass for gold... To be sure that we have the real, genuine metal; then we are more confident of happiness. Ida. RESPONSE Love on! Love on! In life's maturer age, When time with iron pen fills up the page, O'er which we sigh and often drop the tear. As scenes are shifting by us year by year.  Hannah T. King  SCENES AND INCIDENTS AT WINTER QUARTERS: Lately, in looking over some old papers, I found a letter of exhortation and counsel to father's family.... Itis dated August 22nd, 1846, my eighteenth birthday, and had been preserved among father's papers: Now I shall require these things at your hands... Cease from vanity, seek humility and meekness, bow before the Lord in the morning and at eve, and in so doing your days may be many, peace and tranquility shall soothe your bosoms, health and happiness shall dwell in thy wagons, tents, wigwams and cottages, while these things are observed. Cease from murmuring or complaining, finding fault with your friend or with each other, but manifest to all men and women, by your works and the closeness of your tongues, and the integrity of your hearts, that you are right, and that God is with us of a truth. I always do, and shall expect that those which constitute my house, will remember me before the Lord, that I may have wisdom, health, patience, endurance... That I may always give suitable counsel to my family. Heber C. Kimball.  Helen Mar (Kimball) Whitney. A GOOD TESTIMONY: Fault-finding does not enhance our peace of mind, and it almost invariably disturbs that of those we most desire to promote. If we wish to be loved and trusted, then let us love and trust in return; and be sure that the best and truest way of pure happiness is to suffer wrong rather than do wrong Violet Owens. Page 600 Woman's Sphere Ramona W. Cannon A MOVEMENT is on in our country to bring education into closer co-operation with daily living, national business, labor, professional, religious, and other organizations. Plans are under way for choosing committees to meet and advise with the United States Office of Education. Miss Margaret A. Hickey, President of the National Federation of Business and Professional Women's Clubs, is one of the representatives of the business groups. A FORMER Salt Lake woman, Dr. Beulah Ream Allen, who was living in the Phillipines in 1940, was rescued with her two sons from the Santo Tomas prison camp. The former Miss Ream put herself through medical school, principally by night-duty nursing, though medical school authorities feel that even a man cannot successfully work his way through medical training with its rigorous demands. Dr. Allen's second son was born in the prison camp. Her husband, captured at Bataan, is believed to have died in the Cabantuan camp. MORE and more Latin-American women are assuming leadership in civic, intellectual, and artistic life. Santiago, capital of Chile, has had a woman mayor, the wife of Oscar Schnake. A number of highly gifted women among our good neighbors attended the San Francisco Conference. Senora Isabel Sanchez de Urdaneta was a pioneer in introducing kindergartens into Venezuela. Dr. Berta Lutz of Brazil is a famous scientist and feminist. Senora Isabel P. De Vidal is a member of the National Senate of Uruguay. Senora Adela Formoso de Obregon Santacilia is president and founder of the Women's University, Mexico. MANY of Utah's daughters are winning recognition for outstanding achievements. Dr. Lenore Richards shows a marked talent for surgery. She is the first woman ever to be accepted in the Teaching Surgical Service of the Cincinnati State Medical School with service at the Cincinnati General Hospital. Dr. Richards instructs and is continuing her own specialized studies. MRS. Elaine Stevenson Michelsen, while living temporarily in Hartford, Connecticut, was invited to exhibit her paintings at the Hartford Public Library on the occasion of the commemoration of its founding. Moving with her husband to Seattle, Washington, she became a successful art instructor there. A USEFUL and interesting book is Home-School Relations, written by Dr. Ernest G. Osborne and Sarah E. Baldwin. Page 601 EDITORIAL 

VOL. 32 OCTOBER 1945 NO. 10 ?Comfort Ye MY People? Isaiah 40:1 WORLD War II has ended. With the reported cessation of hostilities in Japan and the Far East, once more the healing wings of peace are enfolding the world. And, although many of the fighting forces still remain far from their native hearthstones, the comforting assurance has come to their loved ones that no longer are they called upon to face the horrors and destruction of a total war. The year A. D. 1945 will ever mark the close of an old era?one of sorrow and grief for the mothers of men?and the beginning of a new era. The unleashing of a new force in the final phase of the war, whose future power either for good or evil seems to be incalculable, foreshadows the new world era. If the inhabitants of the earth turn to righteousness, and this power is harnessed and developed for the good of man, its future use may prove a blessing to humanity In the hands of wicked and ungodly men, however, the development of this new force, as evidenced in the action of the atomic bomb, may result in the utter destruction of the human race. Such a supposition recalls to the minds of Latter-day Saints the words of the Lord: For I, the Almighty, have laid my hands upon the nations, to scourge them for their Page 602 wickedness. And plagues shall go forth, and they shall not be taken from the earth until I have completed my work, which shall be cut short in righteousness (Doc. And Gov. 84:96-97). May the prayers of the righteous ascend upward in ceaseless supplication that a spirit of righteousness may abide in the hearts of mankind. The assurance of peace at this time brings a spirit of joy and thanksgiving to Relief Society members throughout the world. Faithfully and well through these past years have they carried on the work of the Society. With their own hearts torn and their sensibilities at times harrowed up almost beyond endurance, they have continued to meet together, oftimes under difficult conditions, to relieve the distress of the less fortunate and to mingle their fears, doubts, hopes, and even tears, in a closeness of spirit. They have added to their ability to carry on from the truths of the gospel they have been taught and from increasing the strength of their testimonies. Those women whose wounds will never entirely heal, who have been called upon to bear the supreme loss of a loved father, husband, or son, unselfishly rejoice in the happiness of their sisters and the blessings still remaining to them. With the removal, of the terrible anxiety which has oppressed the EDITORIAL 603 spirits of the women of the Church, and with restrictions on meetings lifted, there must come to Relief Society a great upwelling and resurgence of power. The future lies ahead unknown, but all the calls that may come to the Society will be met if members answer every call made upon them as individuals. Each day the Church Welfare Plan broadens and deepens. The part of Relief Society women in this Plan is great. The responsibility of the Society in saving souls by teaching and living the gospel, is also great. Only by a rededication by the women of the Church?the young ones as well as the older ones?to the work of Relief Society will it be able to fulfill its destiny in the years ahead. Endowed with the grace of humble hearts and contrite spirits, the women of the Church everywhere will work together?for only through their magnificent, united accomplishments will the unbounded potentialities of Relief Society be realized. And the righteousness of the daughters of Zion will be pleasing unto the Lord. M. C. S. THE fall time, the waning of the year, to some people foreshadows a season of dryness and decay, to be followed by the blanketing numbness of winter. So it appeared to the poet Bryant who lamented: The melancholy days are come, the saddest of the year; Of wailing winds and naked woods, and meadows brown and sere. To such people the fall seems a dread season, a time of regret and heartache, of farewell to happy, carefree days, and a time to shoulder the burdens which are waiting. The word "fall" itself connotes a time of decline, an ebbing away of the fulness, a gradual withdrawing of pulsating life which leaves behind but a hardened shell, an empty husk, and a baren waste. To others, the third quarter of the year is best described by the term new ?John Banister Tabb "autumn," an uncertain time, typifying the unpredictable, the colorful, whirling, restless season of the year when activities which have been slumbering in the hot, languorous days of summer are revived; when the blood quickens in tempo with the biting winds without, and energy and spirit are renewed. The keen expectancy of a new school year with friendships and pleasures still untested, seems to pervade the very air. The snatching of unlearned books, the rushing out to meet playmates, the boisterous chatter of children, gaily attired in plaids and brilliant sweaters to match the kaleidoscopic colors of the foliage, punctuates the stillness of the morning. The noontide quiet is shattered by the calls of the released boys and girls who run home, sniffing and exclaiming over the sharpness of pepper-red chili sauce, the acrid tang of pickles or the RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1945 cloying sweetness of preserves, and the unforgettable odor of freshly baked bread. The dancing leaves outside the kitchen door cast a living applique of shadow over the luncheon scene. Tempting samples from bottles whose contents are to be more fully enjoyed in the long months ahead, make these occasions ones to be cherished and recalled in future years. Such sunny, bright days may be interrupted by days of winds and rain, when the family gathers in close companionship around a crackling grate fire, and gratitude wells up in the hearts of the surrounding half circle for the plenty and security found within the beloved home. And after such days of blustery rains and squalls comes a ring of days, each one a jewel reflecting russet, saffron, taffeta tans or tawny orange, with here and there the glowing red of the sumac on the hill, all set in a gleaming band of maple gold. The season of all seasons?Indian summer. Then, as the days grow short and night shadows lengthen, the blaze of color painted by the Master Artist is swept away by the mighty brush of winds, and the mind comes to accept the changelessness of changes?of the season, moods, and circumstances. Over the glory of the beauty that was autumn imperceptibly but surely steals the gaunt, stark beauty of the winter. One is. Led to acknowledge the hand of the Lord over all in the inevitableness and lightness of the changes that enter into the lives of his children, as in the seasons, and to accept, with thankfulness, the sorrows, as well as the joys, of mortality. M. C. S. AN UNWEEDED GARDEN Caroline Eyring Miner How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable, Seems to me all the uses of this world! Fie on't! Oh fie, fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature Possess it merely. That it should come to this! Were these lines written in 1945, before the end of the war? No, but they might have been as far as their application is concerned, and yet they were penned by the hand of Shakespeare in the sixteenth century. Unbelievable, do I hear you say, that our mechanized and scientific world should have come from that unweeded garden of the sixteenth century? And yet it did. On the same foundation, may we not hope that four hundred years from now it will seem unbelievable to our descendants that out of the economic and social chaos of 1945, the idealistic order of that day could have come? Nevertheless, I believe it will be said. NOTES TO THE FIELD Relief Society Singing Activities Encouraged IT is gratifying to know that, despite these strenuous times, so many of the Relief Society singing groups have remained intact and have been able to keep their membership and often have increased it. We realize that due to the restrictive conditions that have been brought about because of the war this has not been possible in some areas.
The General Board appreciates the fine leadership and effort that have been put into the organizations of the Singing Mothers and that have made them distinctive and valuable.
Those who participate in these singing groups receive many cultural benefits as well as rendering worthy service to the Relief Society and
to the Church in general. This was definitely emphasized by our beloved President Grant in the following lines:
The singing of our sacred hymns written by the servants of God has a powerful effect in converting people to the principles of the gospel and in promoting peace and spiritual growth. Singing is a prayer to the Lord, as He has said: "For any soul delighteth in the song of the heart: yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads."
We therefore hope that every Relief Society member who is able to sing will affiliate herself with these singing groups and receive the blessings and inspiration of such endeavor. TAWDRY JADE Courtney E. Cottam Oh, Autumn is a tawdry jade, Ragged skirts aflutter. Her hair unkempt, and 'round her feet Summer's useless clutter. * She dresses in a tawny red, Gypsy-gay, and bright. Spurning pastel shades of spring And winter's pristine white. Her heart is warm, and through her hands Pours the harvest yield. Garnered by this tawdry jade From fruiting tree and field. Page 605 And For Eternity Olive Woolley Burt CHAPTER V SYNOPSIS Delsa Marriott, who has not divulged the fact that her fiance, Hugh Temple, wants to break their engagement, is condemned by the townsfolk for what they consider an unseemly interest in Jeff Holden. In order to show them that Jeff means nothing to her, and yet save her face in the affair with Hugh, Delsa decides to appear captivated by Alec Windsor, a marine visiting Delsa's friend, Jim Lewis. THE whole town was excited over Jim's and Lina's wedding. No one was so small, so unimportant, that he didn't have a part in the preparations that now went forward. Jim and Lina were to go to Salt Lake City on Thursday and be married in the temple. Then they would return home, and that evening a big reception would be given for them. Not only was the whole town invited?but the whole valley, as well. Friends and relatives from far and near would gather in the ward amusement hall to wish the young couple happiness, and to dance and eat. "It's going to be a real, old-fashioned wedding," Lina told Delsa happily. "Dad and Mother think it would be nice to have a get-together like they used to have, years ago. In spite of rationing, some of the women think they can get up a good, hot meal. There'll be dancing and a program?everyone who wants to take part on the program can." Delsa smiled. "I wonder if you know what you're Page 606 letting yourself in for?" she asked. 'Tve heard Mother tell of those old-time affairs?they lasted a good part of the night. You'll be tired after the day in Salt Lake?going through the temple and all." "I don't care!" Lina said, "if Mother and Dad and Jim's folks want an old-time party again, we'll give it to them. We've been so sober for so long. We're going to be happy and all together again for once!" Talk of the wedding even permeated the schoolroom and grounds. Nellie Gibson was learning a recitation to say at Lina's wedding, and the girls' quartet was practicing a song. Delsa stayed after school and played the piano for them. Jeff came over and leaned his elbows on the piano and beat time for the girls, watching Delsa over the bright heads of the youngsters. After the practicing was over, Jeff and Delsa walked down the road toward Jeff's house together. Jeff said, with a strange urgency in his voice, "Are you going to let me take you to the wedding, Delsa?" Delsa laughed, surprise giving a ring to her voice. "Oh, Jeff! You know I don't go anywhere with anyone!" Jeff smiled wryly. "I should think you could go with your principal without hurting your conscience at all. Goodness knows, Delsa, I haven't any idea of beating Hugh's time. It's just that everyone will be going and I thought Delsa put her hand impulsively "How has the town been treating on Jeffs arm. You?" Delsa put her hand impulsively on Jeff's arm.
"It's all right, Jeff," she said. She had remembered, then, that she was no longer bound to Hugh. She could go to the dance with anyone she chose. She felt suddenly cold and alone.
JEFF must have been watching her face more closely than she knew for he spoke quickly. "Don't look like that, Delsa. Hugh'll be back one of these days and then we'll all be dancing at your wedding. I'm sorry I made you unhappy."
They went on in silence, each busy with his own thoughts, until they reached Jeff's gate and Davy came running to meet them.
But when Delsa's work at Jeff's had been done and she went out into the clear blue night, she was startled to see a man's form leaning over the gate, obviously waiting for her. She knew at once that it wasn't Jeff; and almost as immediately she knew who it was?Alec Windsor, the forest green of his marine uniform dark against the starlit sky.
"Hello, there!" he said happily, familiarly, as if he had waited for her every night for years.
Delsa smiled up at him. "This is a surprise!" she cried. "It's been a long, long time since there were young men in town with leisure to lean on gates!"
He answered soberly, "It's been a long, long time since I had leisure to lean on a gate, I assure you. But now that I do have the leisure, I am going to make good use of it."
He fell into step beside her and they walked up the wind-tossed path to Marriott home.
"How has the town been treating you?" Delsa asked, for want of something better to say.
"Fine!" he laughed. "Only everyone is so busy with Jim and Lina and plans for the wedding, I've had to shift for myself a bit today. Not that I mind," he hastened to add, "but I had plenty of time to remember you and how pretty you looked last night with that blue ribbon in your hair. Gosh," he went on, "what you girls could teach those South Sea natives?or could you?"
Delsa laughed. It was definitely pleasant to have someone to walk with in the cool spring evening. And when Alec took her arm and drew her a little closer to his side, she felt the old, half-forgotten thrill of being liked and protected.
They walked slowly, talking of many things, and when they reached Delsa, she turned and looked up at the tall, dark, serious boy who reminded her so much of Hugh.
"Come in and have supper with us," she invited.
He hesitated a moment, and then smiled like a little boy caught in mischief.
"Thanks," he said.
"But I can get Dad to step over and tell your friends . . ." she began, but he grinned more broadly.
"I've already told them that I might not be home to supper," he said. "I had hopes."
"Oh, you marines!" Delsa laughed, and opened the door.
Her parents were happy to have a young man at the table again, and the meal went gaily. Afterward, Alec put on one of Mrs. Marriott's aprons and wiped the dishes for Delsa.RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1945 "WHEN the kitchen was shipshape and Delsa would have gone into the living room where her parents were, Alec stopped her. "Let's sit here in the kitchen/" he suggested. "Gosh, it's been so long since I sat in a real kitchen!" He sniffed audibly. "I like the smell of it!" So they drew up chairs and sat beside the table with its red-checked cloth, and talked, with Alec getting up now and then to put sticks of wood into the big, old-fashioned stove. After a while Delsa said, "It's rather late in the year for popping corn?we generally do that in the winter time. But we still have some good corn left?and it's always fun!" So they popped corn and sprinkled it with salt and with homemade, unrationed butter, and ate it in big handfuls. But at last Alec had to go. He frowned at the big wooden clock ticking away persistently on the kitchen shelf, and said, "You're a school marm, and I know what modern kids are. You'll need all the reinforcement of a good night's sleep to handle them, I bet." Delsa smiled. "These children aren't bad," she said. "They are just the town kids?I've known them all ever since they were born. I've taught them in Sunday School and Primary?and they aren't spoiled like city children. They all have plenty of work to do in their homes ?it makes them more responsible and obedient." He looked at her wonderingly. "You really like them, don't you?" he asked. "I wonder if I ever had a teacher that really liked me?" "Of course you did, silly!" Delsa said with a sudden tightening of her throat. Alec reached across the table and put his big, brown, hard hand over hers. "Who's taking you to the wedding dance, Delsa?" he asked gently. THERE it was, her chance, handed to her on a silver platter. But she couldn't take it?not just yet. Delsa thought of Hugh and of Jeff. She could go with Alec?but that was so sudden. It might fool her mother and Hugh's mother, who wanted her to be attracted by the newcomer; but it wouldn't fool Jeff Holden. He would think she had refused him and then had accepted Alec's invitation to show him that she didn't care for him at all? that she didn't want even to trust him as her escort to Jim's and Lina's wedding. She shook her head gently. "No one," she said. "I go with Mother and Dad." Alec opened his hand, which now held hers, and looked down at her fingers. Hugh's ring, a simple little token?but all that she had wanted ? circled her finger. The tiny diamond winked up at Alec, like a bright tear. "He's pretty wonderful, I'll bet, to have a girl like you waiting for him." Delsa felt that she ought to defend her position, somehow. She began, hesitatingly, "And there's Millie, Alec. Oh, I don't want to point out your social obligations-it's not that?but I know Millie would feel hurt if you took me?" A sudden smile broke across Alec's dark features, and he squeezed her hand gently. "You're absolutely (Continued on page 620) Flowers and Fruit for the Table Adele Matheson AT the table the family gains the fuel for living. Children grow and develop from its bounties. Three times each day, through all seasons, parents, children, relatives, and friends come together to participate in the all-essential requirement for physical survival. What, then, must be the importance of this homely routine? What can be done to lift this commonplace function into a less prosaic experience? The piquancy of well-selected and carefully prepared food is an indispensable requirement. Beyond this, resourcefulness, art, and skill must be constantly employed to give surprise and zest to table arrangements. The mother-hostess must never give way to the mere "feeding of the family" routine. Never should our loved ones be called to surround a "tired table." Color is a pleasant invitation to happy dining. Its use is not expensive, and color demands no drudgery. Use color in flowers and fruit, in dishes and table linen. Create colorful food combinations and watch the effect of lifted spirits and congenial gaiety when the diners see the fresh beauty that beckons them to the table. Suggestions for good table setting ?may come from the particular meal, the season, or the occasion. Photograph courtesy W. Atlee Burpee CREAMY YELLOW COSMOS AGAINST THE CORAL PINK OF A FLUTED SHELL ?Photograph courtesy W. Atlee Burpee PALE YELLOW AND GOLDEN GAILLARDIAS IN CREAM-WHITE BOWL Holidays and birthdays, the wedding anniversary, Sunday dinner, a fireside supper, breakfast on the porch?all provide an opportunity for the alert and loving housekeeper to portray her artistic ability. The table covering, whether it be a cloth or runners, is the background for the setting of china and accessories. The linens may vary according to the meal?breakfast, lunch, or dinner. Faultlessly-ironed linens contribute much to the charm of a table setting. For dinners, and particularly for formal occasions, white linens are always correct. However, the delicately tinted rayons so popular at present provide a rich background which makes the table fairly sparkle. Hand-blocked peasant linens in gay floral patterns and fruit motifs offer a wide choice in the selection of an inexpensive covering to be used for the breakfast table. Set with gaily colored pottery, such a table presents an invitation to enjoyment which stimulates the day's activities. 'INHERE is never a meal where floral decorations are out of place, never a buifet supper nor a children's party that is not made more attractive by artistic flower arrangements. These decorative centerpieces should be simple, composed of clear, bright colors, entirely cheerful in effect. Nasturtiums, intermixed with their crisp green leaves, are appetite-inspiring flowers. The simplest arrangement is suitable for the informal luncheon. A few sprays of asters or cosmos, if placed in an appropriate container, will make a FLOWERS AND FRUIT FOR THE TABLE 611 lovely centerpiece for this meal. Calendulas and marigolds reflect the warmth and brilliance of the autumn season. The ingenuity of the mother-hostess is put to the test in the choice of flowers which may be available in the family garden plot. Charming center decorations may be made by placing one or two dahlias or chrysanthemums in a shallow dish filled with water. Pansies, also, provide an attractive center of interest by cutting the stems and letting the petals float on the water. Petunias, in their gay multicolors, are a delight, and they adapt themselves to almost any type of container. Autumn is particularly lavish in its gifts of color and beauty. Grains of all kinds, in their golden splendor, offer endless opportunities for attractive table decorations. Feathery oats, in gleaming yellow, against a blue bowl make a picture not soon forgotten. Weed stems, red berries, colored leaves, are gifts from autumn ?gifts that we may bring inside our homes. Fruit arrangements are at all times appealing. Luscious grapes are irresistibly tempting, especially in clusters of green and purple which can be draped gracefully over the edge of a bowl. Mixed fruits, such as oranges, bananas, apples, pears, and peaches do not lack in decorative appeal. Fruits of contrasting form should be selected for combinations. There should usually be a preponderance of one kind of fruit, with color and line accents of other kinds. Whatever type of centerpiece is selected, the arrangement should never be high enough to obstruct the view across the table. DINING TABLE WITH FRUIT CENTERPIECE Picture taken at Lion House, Salt Lake City. Dining room decoration by Mary Grant Judd Also, it should not be so flat that it does not display itself to advantage. If the table is long, several small arrangements may be more effective than a single elaborate centerpiece.
Candles for the dinner table provide a festive touch, but they should be used only in the evening when artificial light is required. For intimate occasions the light from the fireplace may be sufficient for the evening meal.
While individual ingenuity must be depended upon for variety and results, there are certain basic rules for table setting. The linen, china, and silver required will depend upon the meal and the menu. However, the placing of the napkins, silver, china, and glassware is the same for all occasions. The napkin is folded simply?large napkins with the monogram up, and smaller napkins with the long side toward the plate.
Silver is placed on the table at the beginning of a meal only for the courses which are served before the tines up, and all knives and spoons to the right of the individual setting. They should be laid at right angles to the edge of the table, about an inch from the edge. The blades of the knives should be turned toward the plate. Each piece of silver should be laid in the order in which it is to be used, from the outside in. If more silver is required it should be placed upon the table immediately before the course for which it will be used. The tumbler or goblet for water should be placed an inch above and slightly to the right of the largest knife. Butter plates should be placed to the left and above the forks, with the butter knife lying across the rim of the butter plate.
Pleasure may be found in doing anything well. The three times daily task of table setting may be made pleasant and adventurous by using materials readily available for bringing beauty to the table. Let us serve our families with thoughtfulness and artistic planning.ORPHANED Dott J. Sartori The maple lets her green-winged fledgings fly Aslant the autumn?s fitful atmosphere. Sightless, they ride among the enemy And conquering soar into the coming year. Now frost and thought of future goading her The gentian floats her parachutist free, Trusting to filaments of gossamer A century's emerald genealogy. The future is flung into the couch of fall? The green world's minute infants swaddled tight In sheaths of brown, impervious but small? To brave alone the winter and the night. THE BOTTOM DRAWER 613 The Bottom Drawer (Continued from page 591) and sat on the floor beside her cedar chest. She took out all her beautiful things and looked at them one by one. What dreams and hopes she had put into them and now they seemed to be the barrier between her and Bart. With a sigh, she replaced them carefully. I'd better get back to bed, she thought. No matter how I feel I must be on hand to teach the children in the morning. One afternoon the next week when Majel got home she found Grandma lying on the couch gasping for breath. The doctor looked grave as he said accusingly, "You?ve been worrying about something." To Majel at the door, he said, "It's this war. Keep her from thinking about it. She can stand about one more attack like that." Majel went back and knelt by the couch. She smoothed back the soft white hair. "You've been worrying about me," she said. "Well, you just get well and I'll be all right." As she got dinner she thought back over the thirteen years she had lived with her grandmother. She must have been a trial at first and a great responsibility. Grandma might have had a very different life without her? trips and friends of her own age. She shouldn't have let Grandma put her through college either. She knew now that she had done right in staying. Bart's letters came now at irregular intervals, sometimes three weeks apart. They were interesting, though, telling of places around New York he visited, of dances at the field. But he never used the extravagant terms of endearment that had so amused her, and he never mentioned the future. Soon after school was out in June, a different kind of letter came. He wrote, "Sometimes when I'm ten thousand feet up I have the strangest impulse to turn west and fly straight back to you. Instead, I'll probably soon be moving east where I can't even be sure of your prim, sweet little letters." This was too much for Majel. She went to her room and cried a long time. When Grandma called her to dinner her eyes were still red but Grandma seemed not to notice. It was not until they were clearing the table that she asked, "You got a letter, didn't you?" Majel said, "Yes." "Is he about through at Long Island?" Another "yes" was all Majel could manage. They were washing the dishes when Grandma spoke again. "You know what I'd do? I'd go and marry him before he goes. I'd fly to get there." Nothing in Majel's life had ever surprised her so much. "Why, Grandma," she faltered. "You?ve always said such marriages weren't decent." GRANDMA interrupted impatiently. "I can change, can't I? I'm in this war, too, and everybody says war changes people." "But he hasn't asked me to come," Majel objected. Grandma seemed not to hear. "You could leave tomorrow and you needn't worry about me. I'm going to visit Cousin Clara. I've already written to her."
Then Majel laughed and hugged her tight. "You're not fooling me a bit," she said, "but I'll do it. You start packing while I get reservations."
When Majel saw Bart all her confidence left her. But his hug and kiss were ardent enough. He guided her over towards the cafe saying, "We'll get something to eat while the baggage is being sorted."
Not until they were through did he demand, "Now tell me, what's the idea?"
"Is it too late?" Majel asked, scarcely above a whisper.
"You surely don't mean you'd marry me now when you wouldn't three months ago. Why, we could have only two or three days together."
Majel spoke rapidly. "You thought it was a home with nice things I wanted. But it wasn't. All those things in my 'bottom drawer' were just?just something to keep me busy while I waited. I could be happy with you in an auto court even. It was my contract. If was my responsibility to Grandma. Oh, Bart, I've been so unhappy because you didn't understand."
"Understand?" At last he said, "Maybe I do now. I've done a lot of thinking." He paused?then laughed. "Why, I suppose, marriage to you is a sort of contract and ?and?a responsibility."
"Yes, oh, yes," she said.
"And I could be sure of having a wife waiting for me when the war is over?"
"Yes."
"Oh, my dear, I guess I like you just the way you are." He took from his pocket a little green velvet box. In it were two rings?one with a large diamond and the other a band. As Majel watched with shining eyes, he took out the engagement ring, reached across the table for her hand and slipped the ring on.
"There," he said, "I've had them three months." Then his voice took on a familiar, teasing tone. "Not that I haven't tried to find someone in New York to give them to."
When Majel heard that tone she knew that everything was right between them. She brushed. "No one would look twice at you. They could all see the sign 'taken' right across your forehead."
Bart got up. "Come on," he said, "I understand it takes time to get married in New York and we haven't a minute to lose." OCHRE LEAVES Ruby Baird Andersen In zeal, my neighbors heaped their leaves in mounds Then watched them go, in curling, smoky spires; And smugly thought: "How neat?my grounds." Not I, to burn such gold in sacrificial pyres. What though the flame of autumn soon expires, Remembered still are buds that April knows, And sound of wind on summer's leafy lyres. Deserving now, these leaves, of some repose, Intimate with earth and kindly fallen snows. Notes FROM THE FIELD Blanche B. Stoddard, General Secretary-Treasurer Regulations governing the submittal of material for "Notes From the Field" appear in the Magazine for February 1944, page 104. Bonneville Stake (Utah) A DELE MATHESON reported a pageant she directed, given at the Relief Society conference in the Garden Park chapel, November 5, 1944. 'The theme was inspired by the current study of biblical literature in the regular Relief Society outline. The material, covering, in effect, the complete life of Christ, was selected by President preserved throughout by the writer: Elizabeth, mother of John the Baptist, appearing first, related the remarkable incidents concerning the birth of her son, and the prophecies forecasting the advent of the Savior. Genet B. Dee from the four gospels. The beauty and simplicity of the biblical expression was GARDEN PARK WARD, BONNEVILLE STAKE, PRESENTS PAGEANT The five women most important in the life of Christ tell their own story in tableau, dialogue, and song at the Relief Society conference in Garden Park Ward, Bonneville Stake, November 5, 1944. These characters, most beloved by the Savior, were played by left to right: Florence Hill as Martha; Lucile Cederlof as Mary; Adele Matheson as Mary, mother of Jesus; Ruth Romney' as Elizabeth; in front. Lota Lamoreaux as Mary Magdalene. The production was written by Genet B. Dee, President of Garden Park Relief Society, and was produced by Adele Matheson. Poge 615 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1945 Mary, the mother of Jesus, unfolded the marvelous story of the miracle of the coming of the Son of God. She told the appealing and human story of the mother and her son from his birth and childhood to his tragic crucifixion. The raising of Lazarus from the dead and the sojourn of the Savior within their humble home, was skillfully depicted in conversation between Martha and Mary. The story of Mary Magdalene, out of whom went seven devils, was recalled in its forceful simplicity and the dramatic summary of the scene at the cross which concluded the story. "Appropriate musical numbers interspersed the program: 'A Voice in the Wilderness? 'Prepare Ye the Way/ and 'He is Risen/ were rendered by Elaine Tomlinson; 'I Think When I Read That Sweet Story of Old/ by Wanda Gibb; 'Were You There When They Crucified My Lord?' rendered by the Garden Park Girls' Chorus; and 'I Know That My Redeemer Liveth sung by Edward O. Piatt. "The authentic costumes, together with appropriate background and music, contributed to an atmosphere of dignified solemnity, and through the spoken word the characters appeared to actually live their parts. The effect upon the hearers was one of profound reverence. Particularly impressive was the final scene at the cross." RELIEF SOCIETY PRESIDENCY, BELLINGHAM WARD, SEATTLE STAKE (WASHINGTON) Left to right: Thelma Umphenour, secretary-treasurer; Ella M. Petrie, president; Elizabeth Salmon, first counselor; Hazel A. Ferretta, second counselor. Photograph submitted by E. C. Petrie Twin Falls Stake (Idaho) LENNIE WARD, recently released president of the Twin Falls Stake Relief Society, reports that under the able direction of Sister Emma S. Luke, a stake board member, a most inspiring pageant "Nine Notable Women of Scripture" written by Sister Daphne Smith, was presented by the Twin Falls Stake Relief Society at their conference, December 3, 1944. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 6M PAGEANT PRESENTED BY TWIN FALLS STAKE (IDAHO) RELIEF SOCIETY The pageant, "Nine Notable Women of Scripture/' presented by the Twin Falls Stake Relief Society at their conference, December 3, 1944, consisted of nine tableaux, one presented by the stake board and one by each of the wards. Appearing in the picture, left to right, are: Maurine Luke, Wilda Carlson, Leota Bohngbroke; Geneva Moyes as Sarah, and Cecil Adamson as her son Isaac; Elsie Hammond as Asenath, with Calvin Calico and Leon Hammond as her sons Ephraim and Manasseh; Mrs. Larry Armga as Sariah, with Preston Luke as Lehi and Kelly Farmer as Nephi. Center front: Brother and Sister Douglas Brown as Joseph and Mary; the three shepherds, Wyland Lind, Curtis Knight, and Grant Neilson; Back of Mary, Nadine Stanger as Eve, with Lee Morgan as Seth, her son. Top: Esther Bates as Tamar Tephi, with her son Allen Bates as the youthful King David; Ted Wright as the scribe, Baruch, and Donald Arrington as the Prophet Jeremiah. Brother and Sister Joseph B. Stoddard representing Elizabeth and Zacharias; Edith Tenny as Rachel, with Larry Goodman as her son Joseph; Mrs. Alvin Hauser and her two children as Rebecca and Esau and Jacob her sons; Sisters Purdett Farmer and Emma Luke. It consisted of nine tableaux, one presented by the stake board and one by each of the wards. Sister Ward states: "The pageant was rather unusual and drew a large, appreciative crowd. "Sister Purdett Farmer presided at the meeting, invocation and benediction were offered by Sisters Lois Bean and Goldie Tolman. Congregational singing was led by Sister Maurine Luke, 'Come Ye Children of the Lord,' 'Love at Home,' and 'Come, O Thou King of Kings." "Sister Emma S. Luke gave the historical setting of each character before the pageant began, and also sang 'Lullaby' by Brahms during the nativity scene, accompanied at the organ by Sister Wilda Carlson, who also furnished the background music. Sister Leota Bolingbroke was the reader. "The stage platform was built over the choir seats and the beautiful lighting effect was in charge of Sister Rhoda W. Babbel, recently released secretary of Twin Falls Stake Relief Society." RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1945 Lost River Stake (Idaho) LAURA L. CHRISTENSEN, President of the Lost River Stake Relief Society, entertained at a banquet on Friday evening, March 16, for the presidencies and Relief Society ward workers at the Mackay Ward. Her letter reads: "One hundred and thirty-five guests were present from all parts of the stake which includes Arco, Lost River, Moore, Leslie, Mackay, Challis, Salmon and Leadore. "Blue and gold, the Relief Society colors, were used in decorations throughout the building. "During the banquet. Bishop Lawrence Halverson was presented to the guests as master of ceremonies. Community singing, led by Emaline Braithwaite, and extemporaneous speeches called for by the master of ceremonies furnished the entertainment during the banquet. "Following the banquet the guests adjourned to the upstairs where the following program was presented: Community singing Leader, Emaline Braithwaite Reading Cotie Anderson Piano duet Mrs. Shirley Hintze and Mrs. M. M. Hintze Parable Mrs. Roy Waddoups Songs Singing Mothers of Leslie Play "Utter Relaxation" Cast: Alice Ellis, Hortense Bitton, Harold Christensen, Rowsel Ellis, Roberta Lemmon and Darryl Spane. "The entertainment was concluded by the cutting of a beautiful four-tier birthday cake decorated with candles in commemoration of the 103d anniversary of the founding of the Relief Society. "The hostesses for the evening included President Laura L. Christensen, Counselors Maude W. Babcock and Emily W. Muffet, Secretary Luella Halverson and the board." Southern States Mission EFFIE MEEKS, president of Relief Societies of the Southern States Mission, reports that the branches in this Mission are continuing with their project of making a variety of lovely shell craft items. The costume jewelry is particularly beautiful, being made from seashells which are very plentiful in the South. A picture of this shell craft, together with a description of the project, appears on page 588 of The Relief Society Magazine for October 1944. A good selection of this shell craft is on display at the Mormon Handi craft Shop, 21 West South Temple Street, Salt Lake City, Utah. Sister Meeks also has a supply at the mission headquarters, and articles may be obtained by writing directly to her at 485 North Avenue, N. E., Atlanta, Georgia. NOTES FROM THE FIELD 619  OGDEN SECOND WARD PAGEANT?THE LAMP OF OPPORTUNITY" Front row, left to right: Bishop Alden C. Sorenson (representing Priesthood"); Louisa Scoffield, counselor in the Stake Relief Society ("Spirit of Relief Society"); Genevieve Borgono ("Prayer"). Second row: Sergene Simmons, author and director; Idona Briggs ("Loyalty"); Jane Yssel ("Humility"); Anna Stephens ("Courage"); Leona Sanders ("Love"); Myrtle Read, President of Ogden Second Ward Relief Society; Shirley Wright, reader; LaNez Bench ("Opportunity"); Lena Stevens ("Faith"); June Hansen ("Service"); Mary Eliason ("Charity"); Lottie Peterson ("Mercy"); Dean Sorenson, pianist. Third row: S. J. Scoffield (brother of Jared); Susie Kimber (Naomi); Genevieve Kimber (Orpha); Margaret Smedley (Ruth). Photograph submitted by Mrs. F. C. Simmons, Ogden, Utah. Weber Stake (Utah) OGDEN SECOND WARD Relief Society of the Weber Stake presented' March 16, 1945, in commemoration of the Relief Society anniversary, an original pageant by Sergene Simmons, entitled "The Lamp of Opportunity/" suggesting that the spirit of Relief Society creates opportunity and light for all. It was carried out by combining familiar sacred songs, original verse, and scriptural readings, accompanying appropriate tableaux. The three characters, "The Spirit of Relief Society," "Prayer," and "Opportunity," combined with "Priesthood" to give enlightenment to womanhood. The virtues, introduced by fitting songs, were: Faith, Love, Service, Courage, Charity, Humility, Mercy, and Loyalty. This pageant was repeated in the Fourth Ward chapel at Logan, Cache Stake, March 17, 1945. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1945 RELIEF SOCIETY STAKE BOARD, YELLOWSTONE STAKE (IDAHO) Back row, standing, left to right: Martha Black, Rena Smith, May Fullmer, Katie Rudd, Sarah Munk, Ruby Johnson, Elnora Howard. Front row, seated, left to right: Leola Romell, Secretary; Blanche Westerburg, Second Counselor; Mary B. Blanchard, President; Eva Cameron, First Counselor; Adriena Young. Photograph submitted by Mary B. Blanchard. And For Eternity {Continued from page 608) right" he said positively. 'Tm a bear, I guess, but [ actually forgot about Millie. But this won't keep you from dancing with me, will it?" and he frowned at the little ring. "Of course not," Delsa laughed. "I love to dance, do you?" He nodded, and let go of her hand. Rising, he reached for his cap, which he had hung on a hook behind the door when he came in. Delsa followed him, and as he stood, waiting to leave, twirling his cap in his two hands, Delsa thought, how lonely he is! How alone and away from all the folks that love him ?his mother?his sweetheart! That's the way Hugh was, down there in Australia! She laid her hands on his arm, feeling the rough texture of the cloth beneath her palms. "Drop in any time," she said. "If you feel lonely, come here. The Lewises, of course, are wrapped up in their plans for Jim?but we have nothing to distract us. Mother and Dad would love it?" He bent toward her in that slanting, eager posture so like Hugh's and said, "It's been a wonderful evening, Delsa. And I am going to take you at your word?I am going to drop in here often. I only wish I could go to school, too!" A FTER he was gone Delsa went slowly upstairs to her room, but her mother called to her from her AND FOR ETERNITY 621 bedroom, and Delsa turned and went in. "He's a nice boy," her mother said, with a little gesture that reminded Delsa of the past?of the many nights she had come in from a dance or a party to sit on the pieced coverlet and tell her mother and father of the good time she had had. T But Delsa didn't sit down tonight?the old easy confidence was gone? gone with Hugh?though her mother didn't know it yet. Now between them lay a shadow of restraint and, perhaps, deceit. So Delsa stood beside the bed, ignoring that gentle gesture, and said, "He's had a tough time, out there." "I could see that," her father went on, and his gruff voice was gentle. "I don't suppose he told you much about the fighting? It's terrible?I can't help thinking of all our boys?" Delsa patted his heavy, calloused hand where it lay on the coverlet. "You took yours in the last war. Dad," she said softly. "I guess the boys can take theirs now." They talked a little longer, and Delsa stooped and kissed her parents before she went out of the room. Somehow, tonight, she felt sorrier for them than for herself. They both loved Hugh so much. He had taken the place of the son they had never had, and her father had been the only father Hugh had known. "If it were only my problem alone!" she whispered, "I could go away?I could even face it here. But it is theirs, too. Hugh, Hugh, did you forget Dad?did you forget the pony he gave you when you were ten?the days you have helped him stack hay?the way he taught you to box and wrestle so you could hold your own with the bigger boys? Did you forget mother? and her cookies and her presents?her affection that gave you two mothers where less fortunate boys have but one?" She knelt by the window, looking out over the trees to where the snowy crest of the mountain that guarded the valley stood pale and white in the moonlight. Between the mountain and her window lay the acres of her father's farm, and beyond them other acres, and then the road and the foothills where she and Hugh had gone Eastering and May walking and hunting pine nuts and cutting Christmas trees. "I am not a dog in the manger," she told herself at last, "hanging onto Hugh when he is tired of me and wants to be free. I am remembering my parents and Aunt Martha?and I am holding on for them, too." Suddenly she bent her head onto her arms and cried, "And for you, too, Hugh?Oh, now, tonight, I know how you must have felt, out there. And, tonight, I don't blame that girl so much?I know how she must have felt, too." To be continued) Work Meeting Plan Now for Christmas DOLLS AND MENAGERIES OUT OF A SCRAP BAG LAST month on this page suggestions were given for holding a successful apron day in work meeting to help members style and make aprons for Christmas giving. That activity had been planned and carried out by Sister Thelma Kam-merman, work director of Parley's Ward, Highland Stake. The General Board believes that by sponsoring different types of sewing activities in work meetings, all members of Relief Society, the young as well as the older, may become actively interested in sewing and take part in the sewing program of Relief Society. This month Sister Melvina Sheets describes another type of sewing activity for providing Christmas gifts which was carried on very successfully in her ward. "If you were to have visited the Highland Park Ward, Highland Stake, on the second Tuesday of last October, you would have had a glimpse of busy mothers, grandmothers ? yes, even great-grandmothers all enthusiastically working. Some were cutting, some sewing, others pulling bits of white fluffy cotton from large bats and stuffing it firmly into varied shapes for legs, arms, heads, tails, ears and bodies. Stuffed toys were in the making! Page 622 There were dolls with embroidered faces, short and tall Raggedy Anns and Andys, baby dolls, upside-down dolls, and a big doll?a girl thirty-two inches tall, complete with panties, slip, dress, and bonnet, or perhaps with a large bow in her yarn hair. There were brunettes, blondes, and redheads, a complexion to suit anyone's choice. "Cuddly animal toys proved to be popular with the younger mothers, such as: Jumbo, the elephant with his great floppy ears?with a tiny Jumbo, too; the long-necked giraffe and baby with ruffled manes; Scotty, the bow-wow dog; the pony so proud of his long yarn mane and tail; the teddy bear; Peter Rabbit with his pink eyes, ears, and nose; but better still, the white wooly lamb with colored face and tummy which proved to be a favorite with everyone. "It was while helping my niece make a set of rag dolls for her tiny daughter that the idea had come to me that this might be an answer to the Christmas suggestion question. I had immediately gone pattern hunting and had been pleasantly surprised to find so many patterns for different animals and dolls. I also cut additional patterns in order to have plenty on hand so that everyone one would be able to keep busy and happy.
In order to know the amount of material needed and to familiarize myself with each pattern, I made up one article of each pattern. Being very thrilled and satisfied with my menagerie, I placed the toys on display at our next Relief Society meeting. Thus began weeks of work and fun. Each mother, grandmother, sister, or great-grandmother was anxious to make the toy of her choice.
"I asked for pieces of material ranging from one and a half yards to only a quarter of a yard, and these were put in a scrap bag to be used as needed. We used peach-colored washable chintz for the faces, arms, and legs of the dolls. This I purchased, along with the cotton bats for stuffing, the string yarns (black, brown, yellow, and rust) for the hair, and the large, white bath towels for the little lambs. It was found that five lambs could be cut from two towels.
"Our project was most successful. A repeat program of this type has been requested, and we are planning to make an entire beginner's class next year."
PATTERNS Norma Wrathall We grasp the threads of life with unskilled hands. And start to weave the pattern of our days; The passing years bring wisdom, but the strands Are tangled by the time we?ve learned their ways. We long, we strive, to weave the brighter hues. As youthful hours pass like summer sun. But soon, unwilling fingers start to use The somber tones, where hidden shadows run. Our thoughts, our acts, our very lives remain To bind the threads, unwavering, to the end; We dare not cut or break a single skein? For strands like these, once torn, may never mend. LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 12?Building an Empire in the West Dr. H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, January 8, 1946 Objective: To indicate the continued fulfillment of prophecy concerning the gathering of Israel. THE day which followed the arrival of the first company of saints into the valley of the Great Salt Lake was the Sabbath. Fittingly enough this should have been so, for these were a people who had chosen the Lord for their king. In their struggling efforts to establish his kingdom in the East, the Mormon people had found nothing but bitter opposition. Therefore, the Lord led his people where they would be unmolested in their efforts to establish his work.
To bring the nations of the earth to a knowledge of the literal establishment of such a kingdom was, however, the purpose of God. In his wisdom, therefore, he prepared a place for his saints to gather where they might become strong, a place of refuge among the towering rocks and hidden valleys of the mountains. Here, as a peculiar people, they too must be prepared, that they live and obey his laws, which eventually all men, too, must obey if they would enjoy peace and the blessings of prosperity.
President Brigham Young's first advice to the saints on that July 25, 1847, was concerning one of the laws of God?that of keeping the Sabbath day holy. Weakened as a result of an illness which had seized him just before the company of first pioneers entered the Valley, he expressed his wishes briefly. Elder Wilford Woodruff recorded his remarks as follows: "He told the brethren that they must not work on Sunday; that they would lose five times as much as they would gain by it. None were to hunt on that day and there should not any man dwell among us who would not observe these rules. They might go and dwell where they pleased, but should not dwell with us" (Josmer Paramos Saints without Halos in Church History, page 451).
These remarks and the spirit which prompted them were typical of the serious manner with which
Page 624 LESSON DEPARTMENT 625 the followers of this Prophet regarded the literal acceptance of God's word. Within the period of the first ten years that followed the entrance of the saints into the promised land, they set to work with zeal bringing about the fulfillment of many of the great and beautiful prophecies of the seers of old. It was an eventful ten years from 1847 to 1857. Within this decade, hundreds of Mormons, from many nations of the earth, having left their homes, streamed into the Valley. There was hard work to be done if the desert was to blossom as the rose, and scouting expeditions to be sent throughout the vast mountain regions if the stakes of Zion were to be set and lengthened (Isa. 54:2). An actual ensign was to be raised upon the hills that all people who would hear might know that Zion was again, and that they could flow into it. Temples were to be erected, since God had said that his people were always commanded to build a holy house unto his name (Doc. And Gov. 124:39). The land of Deseret or the "Honey Bee" it would become, as the Book of Mormon term implied. Visioning the industry and zeal with which the latter-day work of Israel would be carried forth, Isaiah, the ancient prophet, wrote: And they shall build the old wastes, they shall raise up the former desolation and they shall repair the waste cities, the desolations of many generations (Isaiah 61:4). And of the people and their abode, he said: He that walketh righteously, and speak-eth uprightiy; he that despiseth the gain of oppressions, that shaketh his hands firom holding of bribes, that stoppeth his ears from hearing of blood, and shutteth his eyes from seeing evil; He shall dwell on high: his place of defence shall be the munitions of rocks: bread shall be given him; his waters shall be sure. Thine eyes shall see the king in his beauty: they shall behold the land that is very far off. Thine heart shall meditate terror. Where is the scribe? Where is the receiver? Where is he that counted the towers? Thou shall not see a fierce people, a people of a deeper speech than thou canst perceive; of a stammering tongue, that thou canst not understand. Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities; thine eyes shall see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, a tabernacle that shall not be taken down; not one of the stakes thereof shall ever be removed, neither shall any of the cords thereof be broken. But there the glorious Lord will be unto us a place of broad rivers and streams; wherein shall go no galley with oars, neither shall gallant ship pass thereby" (Isaiah 33:15-21). The actual story of the events which now are history and which now outline the early acts performed in laying the foundations of an empire in the West are filled with the color of human endeavor, courage and self-sacrifice. Soil was broken on the 23rd and 24th of July, that the seed so carefully treasured during the journey west might find its early germination in the Valley. When Monday morning, July 26th, arrived, eager exploring parties set out, some to the west of the valley beyond the Western Jordan River. John Brown and Joseph Matthews were among this group. Others went east into the canyons to return with reports of good timber. Wil-ford Woodruff and a party turned north to discover warm springs, and the next day they went west again into the Tooele valley. It was Orson Pratt who, on the trip, climbed a mountain to view Utah Lake. All companies returned with the feeling 626 RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1945 that their present site in the valley of the Great Salt Lake was the best place in which to lay out the city with its temple to the Lord. It was on the 26th also that a party, including President Brigham Young ascended what is now known as "Ensign Peak" to the north of Salt Lake. Here it was the desire of President Young to lift up an ensign to the nations spoken of by the Prophet Isaiah.
By the 28th, President Young had designated the site upon which the temple to the Lord would be built. He said: "Here is the forty acres for the temple, and the city can be laid out perfectly square north and south, east and west."
Events throughout the rest of the summer months moved on smoothly. A fort was built on the square now known as Pioneer Park in Salt Lake City. This, it was felt, would serve as a protection against the Indians who by now were crowding around the saints to beg and steal. With the return of part of the Mormon Battalion, added strength was given to the colony. On October 3, 1847, a conference was held at which Elder John Smith, uncle of the Prophet Joseph Smith [and great-grandfather of President George Albert Smith], was sustained as the first president of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion. The year 1847 closed with a total of 2,095 souls in the Salt Lake Valley.
One of the most beautiful stories for the saints of the first years in the mountains is that of the crickets and the gulls. The feeding of Elijah by the ravens will ever be remembered to stir the love for birds and their courage to share when it is scarce, where in modern times can one turn for a more inspiring account of mercy from the skies than to that of the winged gulls from off the shores of Great Salt Lake.
No real crop was gathered by the saints for the season of 1847. The pioneers had arrived too late that year to expect much of a harvest. It was then to the spring and summer of 1848 that they must look for a yield if they were to live. The planting season for that year came, and, as the tender shoots pushed forth, the hopes for a bountiful harvest were high. May and June, however, brought not only the sunshine, but danger. Armies of marching crickets trooped down from the mountain sides to mow the fields. Trenches were dug, fires built, cattle and men called to tramp out the insects, but to no avail. Finally, in tearful supplication, the saints poured out their hearts to the Lord for deliverance. As they raised their eyes, what appeared to be a black cloud overhead shortly took shape in the form of hundreds of white-breasted gulls. At first, stricken by fear, lest these birds had come to finish what the crickets had left, the saints stolidly watched. But fear was not to be their lot, for, instead of feasting upon the crops, the birds hacked at the pests, and, gorging themselves, winged off to disgorge their feed. They returned again and again to repeat the attack until, with raucous cries, they wheeled into the air and vanished from sight. It was the miracle of the gulls these modern children of Israel had witnessed. Today, upon Temple Square in Salt Lake City, there stands the fine monument of its kind to a bird, and beneath its shaft is cast, in bronze, the story of the Utah seagull. LESSON DEPARTMENT 627 In other early accounts of this beginning empire in the West are recorded the stories of trips by President Brigham Young and others of the leading brethren back and forth across the plains to Winter Quarters. They were ever interested in bringing safely into the land of Zion the many souls who daily were embracing the gospel. It was on one of the trips back to Missouri that the apostles met and organized the First Presidency with Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, and Willard Richards as the first three men to hold these offices in the presidency since the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hy-rum. About that time, too, Oliver Cowdery returned to the Church and again was baptized a member. In Zion, in the month of March 1849, the first political convention was called. The saints were desirous of having their territory under the flag of the United States. Then, in September of 1850, President Millard Fillmore appointed the first federal officers for the Territory of Utah with Brigham Young as governor. The years ahead were to be stormy since, in the main, weak officials who sought personal gains in office were sent to assume control over the saints in their new Territory. A most important event of these years came with the laying of the cornerstones of the temple on April 6, 1853. Each stone was laid with dedicatory prayers of thanksgiving. Among the significant thoughts expressed that day were these by President Brigham Young: We dedicate the south-east corner stone of the temple to the Most High God. May it remain in peace till it has done its work, and until He who has inspired our hearts to fulfil the prophecies of His holy prophets, that the house of the Lord should be reared in the "tops of the Mountains" shall be satisfied, and say it is enough. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, page 482). The prophecies of old are being fulfilled. * Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggestive readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part of the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." 1. In the month of December 1830 came the word of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning the place of Zion. It reads, "Keep all the commandments and covenants by which ye are bound; and I will cause the heavens to shake for your good, and Satan shall tremble and Zion shall rejoice upon the hills and flourish" (Doc. And Gov. 35:24). Why were the hills to which the saints were to go so desirable a place for God's people? Bring in a map of the Rocky Mountain region centered about Utah. Find in some history text an account of the "Land of the Northern Mystery" (The Great Salt Lake Basin). See Howard R. Driggs, Westward America, page 16. Read Doc. And Gov. 38:13-22. Note especially verse 19. This revelation was given at the third general conference of the Church. 2. What may those expect who keep the commandments and inherit the land of Zion? Read and discuss the revelation given through Joseph, the Seer in Jackson Gounty, Missouri, August 7, 1831 (Doc. And Gov. 59). See Doc. And Cov. Commentary, pages 246-247. Footnote. Assign chapter 40, Essentials in Church History, for additional facts of interest concerning the first months in the Valley. Also see "Utah's First July 24th Celebration," by Harold H. Jenson, Improvement Era, July 1942. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1945 Visiting Teachers' Messages Sources of Strength?Charity Lesson 4-Charity Vaunteth Not Itself, Is Not Puffed Up Dr. Lowell L. Bennion For Tuesday, January 8, 1946 Objective: To show that true charity is self-forgetting. JESUS spoke this parable: Unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and despised others: Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one, a Pharisee, and the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. I tell you this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted" (Luke 18:9-14). Jesus did not condemn the Pharisee because of his righteousness, because he was not an unjust person, an extortioner or an adulterer, nor because he paid tithes and fasted twice a week. These good deeds were all to his credit. His sin consisted in the self-righteous pleasure he took in his own goodness. It is only when we forget ourselves that we can be our best selves, that we can act in our full power and strength. Consciousness of self inhibits the free expression of oneself in any walk of life. A self-conscious speaker is ineffective. A beautiful girl loses much of her attractiveness if she acts conscious of it. Charity cannot both display and express itself at the same time. Charity means to love and to give. This, one cannot do with self-glorification or benefit in mind. That would be a contradiction. Jesus asked that we always act with singleness of purpose. He said not to give to be seen of men, but "when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth." He wanted us to give for the sake of giving. He asks us to love our fellow men freely, spontaneously, without fear of punishment or hope of reward. A friend relates this experience in giving: "One Sunday afternoon I decided to visit a bed-ridden friend, thinking it would be a Christian way to spend the Sabbath and that I might render him a service. I found him in much pain, yet he talked cheerfully and not of himself. His suffering had tempered his spirit, developing in him humility and a deep compassion for others. I left his home profoundly moved and spiritually quickened, and I felt ashamed that I had thought of myself as they giver and of him as the receiver of my benevolence.? "Charity vaunteth not itself, not puffed up?seeketh not her own.? The only check on our charity should be effectiveness in the lives of others. Literature The Bible in Our Literature Lesson 4?Bible Influence as Revealed in Our Narrative and Epic Poetry Dr. Howard R. Driggs For Tuesday, January 22, 1946 CHAUCER, often called the father of English literature, gave us in his Canterbury Tales outstanding narrative poetry. In this group of stories, preserved vibrantly by a literary master, we have an artistic portrayal of England in the Middle Ages. With picturesque old English, which, well-voiced, brings a charm and flavor of its own, the poet tells of "myrie and Niceity in a companie of sondry folk" who are making a pilgrimage about Easter time to pay homage to a "holy blissful martyr" who has "holpen hem (them) whan that they been seke (sick)." To while time away on the long journey to and from Canterbury, the travelers relate favorite tales. These, like the different storytellers, mirror the spirit, the custom, the people of that "olden tyme."
Naturally, with such personages as a prioress, a nun, a monk, a pardoner, a friar, and a poor parson, in the company, we are brought closer to the religious thought and practices of the people, a keen observer, sketches these vivid characters in his prologue with artistry. He pictures the prioress as demure and neat and cultured. There are poetic shafts aimed at the monk who in this case was not pale and studious, but worldly and well fed. For show and sham and abuses of religion, the poet reveals little patience. His ire flames especially at the pardoner who went about selling indulgences, preying upon the poor and rich alike. For the poor parson, however, he has nothing but praise. "Riche he was in holy thought and work," says the poet; and further:
He wayted after pomp and reverence, Ne (not) maked him a spiced conscience, But Cristes lore," and his gospels twelve, He taught, and first he folwed it him selve.
"Meaning the gospel of Christ.
Because of the old-time language, which, after all, is mainly what we use today, only with some letters spelled differently, many folk miss the enjoyment of Chaucer. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1945 For those who do get over the not very difficult word barrier, there are delightful descriptions, touches of humor, bits of wisdom and gospel truths, as well as charming stories in his writings. He pictures for us typically human folk of not only his own day, but of all time. Throughout the work of this pioneer in English narrative poetry, the helpful influence of the Bible is plainly shown. Another of our great poets who drew from the Bible not only inspiration but divine themes for his masterpieces was John Milton. In him, as in Chaucer, we can see three major influences blended to help bring forth masterly creations. First, the freedom-demanding spirit of the Anglo-Saxon; second, the culture of classic Greece; third, the Bible, with its teachings of God and the gospel of Jesus Christ. For a helpful comparison here, think of the soil-laden waters of the Missouri as typifying the rugged northland folk; the clearer Mississippi as the more artistic Hellenes; and the "Beautiful Ohio" as the spiritualizing Hebraic and Christian contribution? all flowing together to make one great stream. In Paradise Lost, to apply this analogy, we have an excellent example of such a blended creation. Milton was trained in Anglo-Saxon love of freedom; he was a classical scholar, a devoted student of the scriptures. As secretary of Oliver Cromwell, he naturally was stirred to the depths by the arrogant assumption of King Charles the First, that kings had "divine right" to rule. To the poet this all had its prototype in the "War in Heaven" with Satan, father of tyrants, fighting to dominate the souls of men, and Christ leading the host battling to uphold man's right to exercise his God-given free agency. Here was a Bible-inspired theme, vital then and always. How could it be most splendidly expressed? All the artistry of poetry Milton had gained from his classic studies was brought into play. Paradise Lost most sublime of epics, vibrates with the spirit of liberty; it is stately in form, portraying heavenly characters, Satan and his legions in hell, the Son of God and his divine mission, Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, their temptation by the Devil, their fall, and expulsion from Paradise. Ringing lines of truth, precious descriptions, vivid moving pictures, all in the spirit of Job and Isaiah and the Apocalypse of John, bring this epic up to the world's greatest of literary creations. To feel its spiritual powers, its music and beauty, one must hear it effectively voiced. Further, it must be read and reread if the inner meaning of the poem is to be appreciated. Paradise Lost will yield its rare wealth only to those who are willing to pay the price of earnest study. Such effort, like that applied to the mastery of classic music, brings its rich and lasting rewards. Just a few lines can be given here to suggest some of the gems of thought and description within the great epic: Him (Satan) th' Almighty Power Hurled headlong flaming from the ethereal sky. The mind is its own place, and in itself Can make a heaven of hell, a hell of heaven?-so says the fallen Satan. LESSON DEPARTMENT When the Son of God offers himself to redeem the world, his Father, with tender love and admiration, makes promise that through this atoning sacrifice shall come, in time, New Heaven and Earth, wherein the just shall dwell. And after all their tribulations long. See golden days, fruitful of golden deeds. With Joy and Love triumphing, and fair Truth. Matchless portrayal of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, of the subtleties of Satan, and of the driving of our first parents from Paradise, carry forward the great story to its closing lines: Some natural tears they dropped, but wiped them soon; The world was all before them, where to choose Their place of rest, and Providence their guide. They, hand in hand, with wandering steps and slow, Through Eden took their solitary way. The Canterbury Tales and Paradise Lost differ basically in form. Stories that Chaucer brings together in the first are individual, unrelated tales. It is only the outward plan, devised by the poet, of having the various pilgrims traveling together tell the different stories that holds them with something of unity. Paradise Lost, on the other hand, is made up of different stories, each of which helps to develop the central theme. This makes it an epic, similar to the Illiad, the Odyssey or to Hiawatha. The Canterbury Tales, in structure may be likened to a necklace; Paradise Lost is more wheel-like in its story unity. Idylls of the King by Tennyson is another great epic. Its various interesting stories of the Knights of the Round Table center in Arthur, their king. In Celtic tales this legendary hero was preserved through the years. In Mallory's Morte d'Arthur, one of the first of English books to be printed, stories linked with Arthur's name are in prose. Tennyson brings to us many of the same stories in more polished English blank (unrhymed) verse. Further, the poet portrays King Arthur more plainly as a champion of Christianity. With his chosen and tested knights, he strives to hold back the Anglo-Saxon pagans who, when the Roman legions were withdrawn from England, made conquest of that realm. With "We fight for our fair father Christ," as something of a battle cry, the courageous Arthur: Fought, and in twelve great battles overcame The heathen hordes, and made a realm and reigned. At the outset the King had announced: "The old order changeth, yielding place to new." Something more, however, than victory over pagan hosts was necessary to make good that vow. Stories, one after another, of the Knights of the Table Round, reveal the continuing struggle against sin, disloyalty to high ideals, and a falling from grace. Then into the epic comes the miracle of the Holy Grail. This sacred symbol, one legend has it, was the cup out of which Christ drank at his Last Supper. Taken to England, so the old story goes, by Joseph of Arimathea, it had remained there until the time-Grew such evil that the holy cup Was caught away to heaven and disappeared. Only by the absolutely pure could the cup again be seen. A sister of Sir Percival, of the Table Round, was first to win that precious privilege. 632 Said she: Sweet brother, I have seen the Holy Grail: For waked at dead of night, I heard a sound As of a silver horn from o'er the hills... And then Streamed through my cell a cold and silver beam. And down the long beam stole the Holy Grail. Rose red "with beatings on it, as if alive... And then the music faded, and the Grail Pass'd.... So now the Holy Thing is here again Among us, brother, fast thou too and pray, And tell thy brother knights to fast and pray, That so perchance the vision may be seen By thee and those and all the world be heal'd. Percival, heeding his sister's words, withdrew from the Table Round to an abbey, to pass his life thenceforth in prayer and fast and alms. Other knights, catching the religious fervor, likewise took up the quest of the Holy Grail. Among them was Galahad, youngest of all. To this splendid youth, King Arthur, dubbing him knight, had said, "God make thee as pure as thou art beautiful." That tiie prayer was granted is attested by the story that Galahad was one who did see the vision of the Holy Grail. But unrighteousness did not cease. The Table Round in time was broken up. At last came the passing of the king (Morte d'Ar-thur). RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1945And, as the great leader neared the close of his uplifting life, he said again: The old order changeth, yielding place to new?Pray for my soul. More things are wrought by prayer Than this world dreams of Outstanding among our American creators of narrative and epic poetry is Longfellow. His name, to most folk, will bring memories of Evangeline and The Courtship oi Miles Standish. Something deeper than just interesting stories are in these and other narrative verse by Longfellow. Evangeline is a symphony impressing "the beauty and strength of woman's devotion"; The Courtship oi Miles Standish likewise is a musically beautiful poem portraying conflict between love and duty. Both picture with artistry moving scenes in earlier American life: one a story of the Norman peasantry transplanted to Arcadia; the other a story of the Pilgrims in Plymouth. To get the full richness out of these classics, one must read and reread them and, in doing so, follow Longfellow's own advice from "The Day is Done": Lend to the rhyme of the poet The beauty of thy voice. All great poetry was created to be heard rather than just to be read silently. Another thing: to appreciate the inner meaning and spiritual beauty of these story-poems one must know the Bible. All through them are lines that call, as do the following, for a working knowledge of that Book of Books. These are typical ones from Evangeline: Harvests were gathered in; and wild, with the winds of September Wrestled the trees of the forest, as Jacob of old with the angel. Like unto shipwrecked Paul on Melita's Desolate seashore. Strutted the lordly turkey, and crowed the cock with the self-same Voice that in ages of old had startled the penitent Peter. Hot and on his lips still burned the flush of the fever As if life, like the Hebrew, with blood had besprinkled its portals. LESSON DEPARTMENT 633 That the angel of death might see the sign and pass over. And these from The Courtship of Miles Standish: This is the hand of the Lord; it is laid upon me in anger, For I have followed too much the heart's desires and devices, Worshipping Astaroth blindly, and impious idols of Baal. This is the cross I must bear, the sin and the swift retribution. Giants in hearts they were, who believed in God and the Bible, Ay, who believed in the smiting of Midianites and Philistines. Forth from the curtain of clouds, from the tent of purple and scarlet. Issued the sun, the great High Priest, in his garments resplendent. Holiness unto the Lord, in letters of light on his forehead. Another of Longfellow's creations, in structure like that of the Canterbury Tales and doubtless inspired by Chaucer's creation, is Tales of A Wayside Inn. In his later years, the American poet, as professor of the chair of poetry at Harvard, gathered round him friends and students from not only his own but other countries. Go to the Wayside Inn in Sudbury, Massachusetts? preserved now as a shrine by Henry Ford, in tribute to Longfellow's work which gave the place literary immortality?and you may see photographs of some of these friends hanging on the wall. There, as the poet devised the setting for his tales, the group of friends would gather round the fireside, and share their stories. From the genial landlord, they were given the first one, "Paul Revere's Ride." Another, "King Robert of Sicily" came from a Sicilian; still another, already mentioned in the first of our lessons "The Saga of King Olaf" was related by the musician, Ole Bull. A Spanish Jew, a poet, a theologian, and a student, all add their favorite tales. And these, with prelude and interludes, are held together as with a strand?story gems made into a literary necklace. Many of the stories are closely linked with the Bible. This is true especially of "King Robert of Sicily," "The Legend Beautiful," and the "Legend of Rabbi Ben Levi." Others, like "The Birds of Killingworth" vibrate with the Christian spirit. And this may be said not only of Longfellow's poems as a whole, but of story-poems created by Whittier, Lowell, and other fine American poets. Space forbids more than this passing tribute due these creators of interesting, uplifting literature. Discussion and Activities 1. (a) What, in brief, does Chaucer portray in The Canterbury Tales? (b) Which of the religious pilgrims in the poem were worthy the name of Christian? Which were not? Why? 2. (a) Tell very briefly the background Bible story of Paradise Lost, (b) How does the theme of man's free agency link with the founding of our nation? With the world wars we have had? (c) What basic preparation had Milton for this masterwork? 3. (a) What, briefly, is the legend of the Holy Grail? (b) What qualities in Sir Galahad made it possible for him to see this vision? (c) How does Lowell in his Vision of Sir Launfal bring the Holy Grail closer to our lives? Sketch his story.  4. (a) Why may Longfellow be aptly called a great poet for both schools and homes? (b) Most folk get just story enjoyment from his narrative poems. What other riches are to be had from appreciative re-reading of Evangeline, The Courtship of Miles Standish, and Tales of A Wayside Inn?
5. (a) Prove with brief quotations from Chaucer, Milton, Tennyson, Longfellow, or other creators of narrative poetry, that a good working knowledge of the Bible is essential to an understanding of their story-poems.
6. Name from another poet?English or American?a narrative poem which links with the Bible in title, allusions, thought or spirit; for example, "Abou Ben Adhem" by Leigh Hunt.
Special References
Prologue to The Canterbury Tales, Chaucer.
Paradise Lost, Milton.
Idylls of the King?"The Holy Grail" and "Passing of Arthur," Tennyson.
Evangeline, Courtship of Miles Standish, Tales of A Wayside Inn, Longfellow. 
Social Science Modern Applications of Moral Principles Lesson 10?Leisure and Morals Dr. Harold T. Christensen For Tuesday, January 29, 1946 Lesson link: Drug addiction, alcoholism, gambling, unchastity, and other moral problems of personal conduct were analyzed last time. Causes and consequences in each of these areas of defiant behavior were emphasized, and it was shown that the effects of private immorality reach much farther than the offending persons themselves. Repentance was given as the way out. Lesson aim: To demonstrate a relationship between modes of recreation and morality, and to suggest ways for improving the morals of society by making better use of leisure time. MAN has not always enjoyed the leisure that he knows today. There was a time, not so long ago, when recreational activities were largely reserved for the privileged upper classes, and the common man was required to toil from dawn until dusk. But all of this has now been changed. No longer is there a special leisure class monopolizing both idleness and opportunity; instead, today, every class is a leisure class. In a remarkably short period of time the machine age has cut the working day in half, releasing, thereby, many surplus man hours for leisure-time activities. And the end is not yet. It is not at all improbable that technological progress in the future will reduce the working day to four or five hours, thus assuring the average man a large amount of leisure time.
But time is a responsibility as well as an opportunity, and, where improperly used, may prove to be a liability rather than an asset. Most people who get into trouble seem to do so in their spare time. The statement, "Idleness is the devil's workshop," is as true today as when it was first uttered, and yet there is more time for idleness now than ever before. Personal debaucheries, such as those discussed in the previous lesson, are in many cases the direct result of the dissipation of leisure time.
Recreation for Profit
Literally the term recreation means to revive, refresh or create anew; in other words, to "re-create." Actually, judging by the dissipation and immorality frequently carried on under its name, it could sometimes better be spelled "wreckreation" with emphasis on the "wreck." Leisure time is potentially a blessing, giving opportunity for rest, hobby activities, sports, social life, cultural developments, and artistic expressions; but it is often wasted or used unwisely, wrecking both health and character, and leaving misery in its wake.
The major reason for this perversion of leisure-time opportunity is the profit motive. Business interests, seeing the great increase of leisure that has taken place in the modern world, have capitalized upon the situation for the sake of private profit. It used to be that practically all recreational activities were in the home or other primary groups, were largely spontaneous, and were free. Now, however, there is an all-too-common feeling that to have any fun one must go out of the home and spend money for recreation. When the desire for profit comes in conflict with the welfare of the public it usually suffers, which explains the reason for so much of the corrupt in our leisure-time activities. With a few exceptions, commercialized recreation is concerned with profit rather than morals, and it is this disregard for the best interests of the public that accounts for so many of its lurid appeals and unfortunate influences.
Then, too, commercialized recreation is so often of the passive variety that, aside from any directly unwholesome influence it may have, it fails to restore or revive, and it may even actually fatigue or destroy the personality. We are too frequently spectators and too infrequently participants in leisure-time activities to get the most out of them. It is better to be an active player than a passive watcher or listener; to be really effective, recreation must be active and creative.
Another unfortunate tendency accompanying the profit motive in commercialized recreation is the development and acceptance of the "thrill" psychology. Thrills and super-thrills seem to characterize the spirit of the times. The real danger in this, of course, lies in the fact that continual thrills of the physical and sensuous type tend to blunt the finer sensitivities of man, blinding him to the deeper spiritual joys of life, and causing him to feel that he must not stop until he has tried everything. And, in such a frame of mind, when the "giant racer" variety of thrill no longer satisfies, he will sometimes seek for bigger thrills in robbery, sex crimes, etc.
The Picture Show
It has been estimated that at least one hundred million people attend Here is the OCR-corrected transcription of the excerpt:
the movies each week in this country, and that about twenty-eight million of these are minors. Since the picture show has such a widespread appeal as this, it might be well to inquire into its possible influence upon moral behavior.
There have been a number of studies dealing with the relationship between movie attendance and moral conduct, and they all point to the same general conclusion; namely, that movies are frequently a stimulus to delinquent conduct, particularly with youth.
The picture show is able to effectively dramatize and glamorize different modes of life to make them appealing. As a result, Hollywood sets the styles in mannerisms and morals as well as in clothes. Children and adolescents, because of their immaturity, are especially impressionable and susceptible to influence. In pictures dealing with crime the bad man usually gets caught, it is true, and the implication is usually left that "crime does not pay"; but to the adolescent the criminal's glamorous life is often more vivid and thrilling than is the somewhat dry fact that he pays in the end. Love and sex themes frequently arouse the romantic and sexual emotions and condition the attitudes of youngsters, with sexual experimentation and promiscuity as the result. Many a juvenile delinquent, and no few number of adults, have testified that they got their start in crime from the movies.
All of this raises the question of control, and there are essentially three points at which control might take place; (1) In production centers. The Will Hays office of censorship in Hollywood is successful in eliminating many of the objectionable features of each play, but it needs to go farther. The Catholic Legion of Decency, and other similar pressure groups, though smaller, have succeeded in wielding some desirable influence on movie producers, but they are too limited in their scope and power. There is need for a united movement on the part of all the public to demand that better shows be produced. (2) In the community. Some states and a few local communities have censorship laws to control the type of shows allowed to come in, but in most places the market is open to anything that will bring profit to the company regardless of whether it is good or bad from the standpoint of the community. Citizens need to develop a community consciousness to the extent that they will tolerate only the better pictures to be shown. (3) In the home. Fortunately, no one is compelled to see a movie just because it is shown in the community. But there are too many families that seemingly don't care where their members spend their time; too many parents who are indifferent to their children's absence or who may even send them to a show (without first informing themselves as to the kind of show) in order to get them out of the way. Movies of the right sort can be valuable aids in character building, but there are too many of the wrong sort and too many parents who either don't know or don't care. Of such is immorality bred.
The Public Dance Hall
Dancing itself is innocent enough, but the conditions and temptations surrounding the average public dance hall of the day are enough to
make of it a real moral problem. LESSON DEPARTMENT 637 Men and women of all ages come together without chaperonage and usually in search of a thrill. Many are unescorted. The hardened and depraved rub elbows with the innocent and adventurous. Lights are dimmed. The orchestra plays softly and romantically. Liquor is brought and passed around. ?Pickups" are made for the rendezvous after the dance. Regrets and despair too often await the dawn. Some may think that this picture of the public dance hall is painted overly dark; but if it is, it is only for the sake of emphasis. All that is said here is true, and while it must be recognized that many can attend the public dance and remain unharmed, yet it must also be admitted that many others cannot; and therein lies the danger. If liquor, unescorted attendance, and pickups could be eliminated from the public dance hall, it would be far more acceptable from the moral point of view. Parents and community workers should insist upon these reforms, but in the meantime they should strive to keep their children free from all such dangerous, immoral exposures. Miscellaneous Decreative Patterns Although the picture show and the public dance were singled out for special analysis, it should be remembered that there are a great many other patterns of "recreation-al" behavior that are decreative or demoralizing in their results. And some of these are even more destructive than the two mentioned above. Thriller radio programs, comics, and pulp magazines all join with the movies in furnishing morbid and distorted stimulation to the young. It might be just about as logical to speak of "our radio-made children" or "our comic-made children" as it is to speak of "our movie-made children," for in each case the effect of continuous exposure upon attitudes and behavior is rather profound. Overstimulation and overexcitement with emphasis upon the brutal and the gruesome is characteristic of a proportion of them all. It is even difficult to understand why the so-called comic magazines are spoken of as comics at all. As for the dime novel and the pulp magazine, the slant is so definitely toward sex, erotic love, and cheap adventure as to be revolting to all mature persons. But youth are not mature, and to permit them to be exposed to some of this vicious literature is a moral crime of considerable magnitude. The night club, the cabaret, the roadhouse, the pool hall, the "beer joint," the gambling den, the taxi dance hall, and the burlesque or "girl" show, are a few other types of leisure-time activities that frequently lead to extreme personal and social disorganization. Alcohol and sex used for profit, either singly or together, create very dangerous situations, regardless of the name of the institution used as a shield. Often, too, the problem is primarily one of sheer idleness, starting in boredom and ending in mischief. Personal disorganization resulting from the misuse of leisure time is not restricted to the big city with its high-powered temptations and its opportunities for anonymity. The small town is frequently just as much to blame, and this for the very reason that it fails to provide RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE?OCTOBER 1945 wholesome and challenging activities and interests. But, whatever the community, idleness when permitted to exist creates real moral problems. Loitering on the streets, "killing time" in the pool halls, and seeking thrills in the back alleys, all start with idleness and end with trouble. Leisure Time and the Community The blessing of abundant leisure time, which has come to man and which will increase all the more in the future, carries with it a great moral responsibility. That responsibility is to use this extra time well, to let it be the means of lifting man up to the better and nobler things of life. When dissipated, leisure time leads to both idleness and debauchery, examples of which we have seen throughout this lesson. When utilized in line with moral principles, it leads to richer experiences, deeper appreciations, and loftier satisfactions. Our job is to eliminate the waste and the wreckage of leisure, and to put in their place the finer and more wholesome things of life. Students of crime and delinquency frequently point to the lack of adequate cultural and recreational facilities in the community as a major factor in immoral and anti-social conduct. This is especially true with reference to the young. With time on their hands and the desire for fun, young people often find themselves faced with the limited alternatives of loitering on the streets or participating in some relatively unwholesome commercialized, leisure-time offering. No wonder so many of them get into trouble. It is high time that more of our communities awaken to the problem, as some are now doing, and provide decent places and programs for the enjoyment and development of the young during their leisure hours. Recreational centers should be developed, appealing cultural programs should be offered, ct cetera. Schools, churches, service clubs, and other groups can give valuable assistance to such a movement by talking it up, offering their facilities for the various activities, and by manifesting their willingness to co-operate in the larger, integrated community program. There is much that can be done on a community basis to check delinquency and develop morality in the young. Latent resources that could be utilized to combat these evil influences are abundant in every community. But to accomplish this, as it should be accomplished, will require the interest and united effort of all. Problems for Thought and Action 1. Explain how the great increase of leisure time has been possible. Why does leisure time, sometimes prove to be a liability rather than an asset? Give examples. Do you agree that most people who get into trouble do so in their spare time? Explain. 2. How does the profit motive lead to corruption in recreational activities? Give examples. Why has the increase in commercialized recreation paralleled the increase in leisure time? Is commercialized recreation always "wreckreation?" Defend your point of view. What is spectatoritis? Is it good or bad? Discuss. 3. Why are picture shows so influential in the shaping of attitudes and conduct? Show how movies have contributed to delinquency (as a basis for this the class leader may want to have someone give a brief review of Forman's Our LESSON DEPARTMENT 639 Movie Made Children). Select one or two recent picture shows that most of the class would have seen and criticize as to good and bad features. How can the quality of pictures produced and coming into the community be controlled? What is the particular responsibility of parents regarding movie attendance? Suggest ways and means of selecting the better pictures and of directing the attendance of children. Describe the major evils attending the average public dance hall, and explain why each is an evil. Is dancing itself an evil? Why not? Can you suggest any ways of eliminating the evils of the dance without eliminating dancing itself? Show how certain radio programs, comics, and magazine materials are unwholesome. If possible, ask class members ahead of time to listen to certain radio programs for children. Criticize these programs in class. Bring selected comics and pulp magazines to class as a basis for discussion. Describe other disorganizing leisure-time activities that may be in your community. 6. Why does leisure time. Carry with it a moral responsibility? Discuss ways that your community might organize for a better use of leisure time, and show how individuals and groups can help. Could the Relief Society do anything about this problem? Discuss. 7. Why is the Family Hour program, recommended by the Church, so influential in shaping attitudes and conduct? Selected References Standard Works: Bible: II Thessalonians 3:6-12. Doc. And Cov. 88:121-124; 136:28. Books by L. D. S. Authors: Discourses oi Brigham. Young, "Happiness and Social Enjoyment," pages 364-376. Milton Bennion, Moral Teachings 01 the New Testament (now available at Deseret Book Company, $1.50). MIDAS OF AUTUMN Margaret Jenkins I have lived in a beautiful valley; It has blossomed, has glittered with frost, But my greedy eyes love to behold it After "Midas of Autumn" has crossed. Burnished gold are the fields where he passes, Misty gold is the light on the hills. Farmers reckon their bushels in coppers, But it's gold that they haul to the mills! Here the cottonwoods stand like an army He has gilded by brushing the ranks. And the river's a jade-shadowed mirror For reflecting its leaf-jeweled banks. Even dust is a veil of his spinning. He has gilded the humblest door, And my eyes are so filled with the beauty That I never again can be poor. Gifts for the Relief Society Women Gift Cords Included When Requested OFFICIAL RELIEF SOCIETY PIN No. 1 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 24 carat gold-plated. Price $1.20, postpaid. No. 2 Pin of blue baked French hard enamel and 10 carat solid-gold front gold filled, with 24-carat gold-plated back. Price $2.00, postpaid. Both pins are identical as to design, size, and coloring, and bear the organization date. 1842. These prices include Federal excise tax. Our Legacy  RELIEF SOCIETY CENTENNIAL ANTHOLOGY OF VERSE This 329-page book contains poems selected from the writings of Latter-day Saint women from 1835 to 1942, including all the prize poems designated in the annual Eliza Roxey Snow Memorial Poem Contests up to 1942. Attractively bound in blue imitation leather, stomped in gold. Price $1.50, postpaid. A Centenary of Relief Society A panorama of Relief Society's first hundred years in picture and story, containing much material heretofore unpublished. Invaluable to all Relief Society workers. Bound in a blue paper book cover, with its title "A Centenary of Relief Society" and the centennial insignia beautifully embossed in "old. 96 pages, size 9x12 inches. Over 500 pictures of historical interest. Special price 50 cents per copy, postpaid. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE BINDER A durable binder of blue imitation leather stamped in gold with the name of the Magazine, into which twelve single copies of The Relief Society Magazine may be inserted or removed at will. A great convenience to all stake and ward Relief Society officers, class leaders, and to all Magazine subscribers who like to keep a current year's issue of the Magazine together. Price $1.20. Postpaid. ADDITIONAL SONGS Still available are the additional songs issued in 1941 for insertion in the Song Book at 15 cents for the set of three?"In Thy Form," "A Song of Triumph," and "O Father, Keep Us We Pray." All articles listed above are obtainable only from General Board of Relief Society, 28 Bishop's Building, Salt Lake City L Utah. NO LONGER AVAILABLE The supply of Relief Society centennial plates and of Relief Society Song Books is entirely exhausted, and the General Board is not at present planning to restock them. If it?s a National Bible it's the Beloved King James Version Since 1863, National has published only the beloved King James version... Preferred by our parents and grandparents... Most suitable for us and for our children. NATIONAL BIBLES SINCE 1863 AT YOUR BOOKSTORE M-U-S-I-C SPECIALLY suitable FOR RELIEF SOCIETY BLESS THIS HOUSE. HOMING?Del Riego.. MY OWN AMERICA? LITTLE OLD GARDEN HOME?Van Steeden! 15c AMERICAN PRAYER 15c. Above numbers in octavo. Less 10% discount plus postage. We specialize in L. D. S. Church music. Also carry large stock for schools and home use. Dealers in Steinway and Lester pianos, band and orchestra instruments, talking machines, records and musicians' supplies. DAYNES MUSIC CO. We solicit your patronage 47 So. Main St. Salt Lake City 1 IDEAS! INSPIRATION! For Teachers of Social Science MORAL TEACHINGS OF THE NEW TESTAMENT?  By Milton Bennion Emeritus Professor of Philosophy and Dean of the School of Education, University of Utah, General Superintendent of the Deseret Sunday School Union Board. YOU HAVE BEEN WAITING FOR THIS EDITION Mail this coupon DESERET BOOK COMPANY 44 East South Temple St., P. O. Box 958, Salt Lake City 10, Utah Please send me copies of Dean Bennion's "Moral Teachings of the New Testament" at $1.50. Herewith $ Name... Address When Buying Mention Relief Society Magazine Mummy you're just what daddy used to say: "As pretty as a picture." A CHARMING PERSONALITY INSTEAD OF A HUNGRY WAIT The Outcome of a Beneficial Income BENEFICIAL LIFE INSRUANCE COMPANY Heber J, Grant. Pres. SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 