Clarissa S. Williams. We have taken the following from "The War Camp Community Service:" Church the Foundation. "When the War Camp Community Service of the War and Navy Department Commissions on Training Camp Activities undertook the important work of replacing for our soldiers on leave the influence for good which they left behind when they suddenly severed their home ties and were precipitated into an entirely new and different environment, the first task was to determine which of these influences was the most important. The verdict was instantaneous and unanimous. The boys must not leave their religion behind. "One of the first steps, therefore, of the scores of Community Organizers which the War Camp Community Service sent into the communities adjacent to our great training camps and cantonments was to ascertain to what church the soldiers belonged and to see that they were invited to attend the local church of that denomination wherever one existed. "The effect has been little short of miraculous. Clergymen in these communities who formerly preached to slender congregations have found themselves addressing packed churches of serious-eyed, khaki-clad youths. In many instances the churches are far from large enough, and open-air meetings are held on Sundays both inside and outside the camps. Many youths who attended church frequently at home have accepted the invitation to go and sit and worship with 'folks that look like home folks.' " "The first amendment to the Constitution of the United States guarantees religious freedom. War Camp Community Service proceeds on the principle of organizing every community it enters as a miniature America, a little United States which alone can form a coherent whole, the great United States. It is an organization of the people of the United States, and its work consists of every form of social service calculated to stimulate the morale and preserve the physical well-being of the soldiers." We are more than pleased to tell our readers that in the near HOME ECONOMICS. 409 camps, where the majority of our Latter-day Saint boys are, we have Chaplain Brigham H. Roberts and Chaplain Calvin S. Smith to look after the spiritual welfare of our sons. Children and War Food Substitutes. "The necessity of guarding the food supply of your children, and assuring to them an abundant diet of properly selected foods, is assuming every day a more critical phase as the war stringency increases and demands for the conservation of foodstuffs become more urgent. A most wholesome educational movement is going forward among the American people in the use of different foods. Nature is exceedingly adaptable, and the healthy human being can be fed with a fair degree of success on widely varying diets. "But while the adult may thrive very well on substitute foods of various kinds and even be better off with some of these dietary changes, it is not always true that young children will profit by the same course. The child's dietary requirements are less flexible than are those of grown persons, and insufficient or unsuitable food is likely to have serious consequences for the growing child. "Authorities on the subject state that there is practically no substitute either for milk or green vegetables in the food of the growing child. Milk should be given in many forms. Directions for the use of milk in a variety of ways are contained in a bulletin of the Children's Bureau, which will soon be ready for distribution and can be obtained by writing to the Children's Bureau, Department of Labor, Washington, D. C. "In the face of the great need of conserving wheat the use of new cereals has become a matter of necessity. There seems to be no reason why such food may not be as wholesome as wheat, if properly cooked. Mothers may need to be warned that all cereals, and particularly the coarser ones, like oatmeal and corn, need very long cooking to be suitable for children. Therefore, it stands to reason that the 'quick' breads and griddle cakes, which have been exposed to cooking heat perhaps only a few minutes, will not be well digested and that all preparations of cereals should be subjected to long, slow cooking if they are to enter into the diet of young children." The Women's Committee of the National Council of Defense of Washington, D. C, issued a call to its state chairmen for a National Council in Washington, May 13, 14 and 15. The call is for the purpose of "perfecting plans for the better coordination, cooperation and closer unity among national, state and local units to counsel together, to instruct, advise and to inspire each other for the greater and more arduous tasks which this crucial year of the war has laid upon us." We in Utah were very fortunate in having two representa- 
 tives at this conference: Mrs. J. William Knight, of Provo, Second Vice-Chairman; and Miss Elsa Bamberger, of Salt Lake City, Secretary of the Women's Committee of the State Council; both officers of the Women's Committee of Utah. We feel sure that on their return they will have many new and progressive plans to present to the women of the state. What Your Fifty-Dollar Liberty Bond Will Do. It will protect 1,000 soldiers from smallpox and 666 from typhoid. It will assure the safety of 139 wounded soldiers from lockjaw, the germs of which swarm in Belgian soil. It will render painless 400 operations, supply two miles of bandages  enough to bandage 555 wounds. It will care for 160 injuries in the way of "first-aid packets." It will furnish adhesive plaster and surgical gauze enough to benefit thousands of wounded soldiers. Every purchaser of a Liberty loan bond performs a distinct individual service to his country and to our boys fighting in France.