[WomansExponent | Vol38 | 1909 | March | Issue: 8 | Title: SEVENTEENTH OF MARCH. | Author: Unknown]

SEVENTEENTH OF MARCH.
	The annual day of the Relief Society,
March 17, has been observed this year, we
think, in every ward in all the Stakes and
missions throughout the Church; this has
been customary now for quite a number of
years, more particularly since the Jubilee of
this Society was celebrated in 1892, it is
called the Relief Society day—the one day
in all the year when the sisters contribute
for the fund of the General Society. It is
the only means that the General Officers and
Board of Directors have to defray the neces-
sary expenses of carrying on the work of
this great institution. Ten cents from each
member is a very small contribution and
yet were every member to give the ten cents
it would be, we do believe most sincerely a
great blessing to the individual member,
and certainly to the President and officers
of the Society who labor assiduously for the
advancement of the cause for which on the
seventeenth of Mark, 1842, in the beautiful
city of Nauvoo this Society was founded.
	It is impossible in a short article to tell
the various ways this money is used, but 
the President of this organization, who was
present at the memorable meeting when
the organization took place is a very pru-
dent woman in the handling of means, and
not one cent is ever paid out of the treasury
without her sanction, and her signature at-
tached to the order for the money, also the
name of the secretary. The Treasurer pays
all bills, issues all checks, and everything
is paid with checks and in no other way.
	It was not our intention to mention the
ten cent donation in speaking of the annual
day, but only to suggest that the sisters do
observe it and make it the Relief Society
day for all time. It is now sixty-eight
years since the founding, and in two more
years it will be seventy. In that time we
might perhaps think of something appro-
priate for so great an occasion as that will
be, something that will be distinctive and
largely representative.


[Column 1]
