[Vol32 | October 1945 | Sequence: 23 | Category: Article | Title: Visiting Teachers Bennion]

Visiting Teachers' Messages Sources of Strength?Charity Lesson 4-Charity Vaunteth Not Itself, Is Not Puffed Up Dr. Lowell L. Bennion For Tuesday, January 8, 1946
Objective: To show that true charity is self-forgetting. JESUS spoke this parable: Unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and despised others: Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one, a Pharisee, and the other a publican. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess. And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner. I tell you this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted" (Luke 18:9-14).
Jesus did not condemn the Pharisee because of his righteousness, because he was not an unjust person, an extortioner or an adulterer, nor because he paid tithes and fasted twice a week.
These good deeds were all to his credit. His sin consisted in the self-righteous pleasure he took in his own goodness. It is only when we forget ourselves that we can be our best selves, that we can act in our full power and strength.
Consciousness of self inhibits the free expression of oneself in any walk of life. A self-conscious speaker is ineffective. A beautiful girl loses much of her attractiveness if she acts conscious of it.
Charity cannot both display and express itself at the same time.
Charity means to love and to give. This, one cannot do with self-glorification or benefit in mind.
That would be a contradiction.
Jesus asked that we always act with singleness of purpose. He said not to give to be seen of men, but "when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth." He wanted us to give for the sake of giving. He asks us to love our fellow men freely, spontaneously, without fear of punishment or hope of reward. A friend relates this experience in giving: "One Sunday afternoon I decided to visit a bed-ridden friend, thinking it would be a Christian way to spend the Sabbath and that I might render him a service. I found him in much pain, yet he talked cheerfully and not of himself. His suffering had tempered his spirit, developing in him humility and a deep compassion for others. I left his home profoundly moved and spiritually quickened, and I felt ashamed that I had thought of myself as they giver and of him as the receiver of my benevolence.? "Charity vaunteth not itself, not puffed up?seeketh not her own.? The only check on our charity should be effectiveness in the lives of others.