[Vol32 | October 1945 | Sequence: 07 | Category: Article | Title: The Fight Against Emery]
In the treatment of poliomyelitis, the application of hot-packs from the beginning is now an essential process. These hot-packs, depending upon the condition of the patient, must be applied from four to twelve times a day. In case of an epidemic, we do not have enough trained people to do this work.
There are many women who lack the educational requirements and the time necessary for becoming professional physiotherapists. These women may help in the fight against infantile paralysis by training themselves as aids in the nursing profession. In this way many mothers and many future mothers may learn the healing arts of hot-pack application and bedside nursing.
There is only one center in Utah offering proper training for nurse' aids in the treatment of poliomyelitis at the present time. A program has been outlined whereby each county will send to Salt Lake City at least three women for a tentative intensive course in hot-packing and beside nursing of infantile paralysis victims. Several competent and experienced physicians, assisted by various social service and nursing groups, will supervise this essential training. The expenses of the women will be carried by the auxiliary chapters of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis which have been organized in every county in Utah. Living quarters will be provided. When these women have completed their training, they will be asked, under the direction of the county medical authorities, to organize classes and train other women to be prepared in case of an emergency. Remember the needs of our children. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE OCTOBER 1945
Volunteer in the service of the healing arts. No mother knows when the dread poliomyelitis may strike one of her own children. If she has had training in the essential nursing procedures, a mother may render her child a service that might not otherwise be available. If you are unable to get in touch with your local chapter officers, contact the State Representative, Room 250, Union Pacific Annex, 19
West South Temple Street, Salt Lake City 1, Utah, or telephone 3-3126. Let us go forward in the fight against disease. Let us protect our children and care for them. It is today that we must prepare for the emergencies of tomorrow.
