[Vol32 | October 1945 | Sequence: 06 | Category: Article | Title: The Bottom Jones]

Even as I love you." The Bottom Drawer Ruby Scranton Jones MAJEL hurried home as soon as school was out. It was Wednesday, the day Bart's letter came, and the thought of it had made her day bright. Yes, there it was on the hall table where Grandma always put it. She carried it to her room and began to read. She smiled at the salutation, "My darling little Sweetheart," but soon frowned as she read, "There'll be three weddings right after graduation. Why not make it four? Please, don't say 'no.' It's what I want most in the world. I'll have two weeks' leave and then I report at a field on Long Island for three months' bomber training. We could be sure of that much time together, at least."
Majel sat in her little rocker, the letter in her lap.
What was Bart thinking of? He must know a teacher couldn't run off that way without giving notice.
Then there was Grandma.
What would she do?
Just then Grandma stopped in the doorway. "What's the matter, Honey," she asked.
Majel looked up into the wise old blue eyes so like her own young ones. "Bart wants me to come to Texas and marry him next Wednesday. He should know I can't do that." "Of course not," Grandma said indignantly. "Such haste wouldn't be decent." "But how to tell him, that's what bothers me."
Majel took up the letter and started to read again. "Scold him good for suggesting Page 588 such a thing." The little old lady dismissed the problem with a shrug. But it wasn't so simple as that.
Majel and Bart had gone together since high school days. She had worn his fraternity pin since they had been juniors in the university.
They had planned their life together in long, earnest talks.
They knew just what kind of house they would build to accommodate the hoped for children.
Always there had been a place for Grandma in their plans.
When war came Bart became a pilot, not a lawyer, and they decided they would not marry until the war was over. All evening Majel worked on her answer. She explained what the principal had said about the disloyalty of teachers who left to make more money or to get married, and how she had promised to finish out the year. She told how Grandma had had several heart attacks and could not be left alone. She wrote the letter over and over but the last version sounded no more convincing than the first. Wednesday, Majel sent a telegram of congratulation to Bart. She had no letter that day but, of course, she thought, Bart would have been too busy to write. And then on Saturday she heard that Bart was home home without letting her know so she could meet him. Why would he do that, she wondered, when we haven't seen each other for nine months? He must know this is as hard for me as it is for him. SUNDAY, Majel did not go to church. She wanted to be home when Bart called. She spent an hour arranging her soft black curls in the even rows he liked. She put on a new blue suit and then changed to a rose wool dress that he had said he hoped would never wear out. And still there was no call. At last she went to her room and sat staring out the window.
After dark, when she had almost given up hope, the bell rang and Bart was there. He said, "Hello," as though nothing had happened and kissed her on the cheek.
"Lieutenant Winters," she said, stepping back to look at him. "How you do set off that uniform." She touched the gold bar on his shoulder. "And how tanned you are. Or is it that your hair has bleached in the Texas sun?"
"A little of both," he said, following her into the living room.
She wanted desperately to throw her arms around him and tell him how proud she was, but the unusual coolness of his manner restrained her.
Just then Grandma hurried in. She pulled down his head and kissed him. "Bad boy," she said. "Surely you wouldn't want Majel to be one of those war brides."
"Well," he said flushing, "we've been engaged long enough, haven't we?"
"What kind of marriage would that be?" She shook her finger at him. "You've plenty of time. Why, Majel's not twenty and you're only twenty-one. You're just children." She went out, leaving them laughing but annoyed.
"Oh, Bart," Majel said as he sat down beside her. "You must see
that I couldn't break a contact. Teachers are impossible to replace and I promised to stay." She turned to look at him but he wouldn't meet her eyes. "And I just couldn't leave Grandma when she's not well." Still he didn't speak. "Don't you see, Bart, I just couldn't do it?" Her tone was pleading now.
"No, I don't. You've always said marriage meant more to you than anything else." His voice rose in anger. "Now you say a job is more important or your Grandmother." When Majel tried to speak, he hurried on, "I want you to be my wife before I have to go. Is it too much to expect?" He got up to pace back and forth, his gray eyes stormy.
MAJEL reached out to stop him, but he stepped aside. "Bart, dear," she said, "you know how I love you and how much I want to be your wife. But what kind of marriage would that be for either of us? I wouldn't be happy because I would feel guilty, and you wouldn't be happy feeling you had persuaded me to do something wrong. We've got to plan for all the years ahead, not just for three months."
"Yes, and while you're planning, I'll be out there fighting and probably getting killed."
"Don't, Bart, don't." She covered her face with her hands.
Bart stopped in front of her. "Well, marry me then if you care so much."
"There are so m many reasons why I can't," she sobbed.
Bart snatched up his cap and started for the door.
Then he turned. "I might have known it was that bottom drawer you cared for," he accused, "and not me."
RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE OCTOBER 1945 He went out and slammed the door.
Majel sat a long time thinking. How could this have happened to her and Bart who loved each other so much. And what was it he had said about her "bottom drawer?"
Majel had been left' an orphan when she was six and had come to live with her father's mother. The old lady had kept the little gid from being too lonely by telling her stories of Ireland. The one most sure to interest her was about the Irish girls who set aside the bottom drawers of their dressers for their hope chests. So Grandma had taught her all kinds of needlework and together they had crocheted doilies, embroidered towels, hemmed napkins, and wrapped them in blue tissue and put them away in the bottom drawer of the old dresser. As the years passed, under this influence, she had come to look upon marriage as the sole interest of her life. When Barton Winters moved to their town and began to show his preference for her, Majel accepted him as the fulfilment of all her dreams. And then her bottom drawer held an added interest. She worked vacations to buy the finest sheets and pillow cases to monogram. She pieced quilts of intricate pattern, crocheted a bedspread, and lastly learned how to weave a tablecloth as dainty as a spider web. The bottom drawer had long ago become an overflowing cedar chest. She had told Bart about it as he watched her sew in the evenings they spent at home. He had shown pride in her work. "My little housewife," he had said, "my little old-fashioned girl." But tonight, Majel thought, he had not been proud of her. He had been disappointed and angry like one of the little boys she taught. "DART came back the next evening and apologized. He laughed it off and took her to a movie.
Tuesday evening she wanted to stay at home but Bart said they should go calling. Wednesday, they decided to have a real party with dinner and dancing at the hotel. For the first time since his return, Bart seemed natural and happy.
They had given their order and Bart had just said, "Let's try this dance," when Milly Andrews, a girl they had known in school, came in with another officer.
When she saw Bart she hurried over. "Hello, handsome," she said. "Why didn't you let your friends know?" She nodded to Majel and introduced her escort. "Why can't we sit here, too?" she asked, so Bart drew out a chair for her and they all sat down. All through the university, Milly had made no secret of her liking for Bart.
When the orchestra started a particularly snappy tune she said, "Oh, Bart, that's ours," and jumped up.
Bart looked at Majel with raised eyebrows, so she nodded.
There seemed nothing else to do. Lieutenant Jackson turned to Majel. "Do you mind not dancing?" he asked. "I'm hardly up to it. I'm just out of the hospital." For the first time Majel looked closely. At him and noticed how pale he was. "Of course not," she answered. "It's too fast for me anyway."
With her usual kindliness she set about to entertain him, but with half her mind she kept thinking, why, Milly would marry him tomorrow if he asked her.
THE BOTTOM DRAWER 591
When the dance was over, more friends came in, so they pushed two tables together and the evening became a reception for Bart.
Majel enjoyed the repartee, the dancing, two things she had missed while Bart was away. He was very attentive and she soon forgot the unhappy incident which had threatened to spoil the evening. At midnight Majel stood up. "Fm sorry," she said, "but I have to work tomorrow." "Oh, yes," Milly laughed, "the little school-teacher." Her voice showed plainly the scorn in which she held the whole profession. "Why don't you take her home, Bart, and then come back?" "I guess not," he said as he held Majel s coat. "I d just be extra." "An extra man's not to be sneezed at these days."
Milly shook her blond bob becomingly. All the way home Majel kept thinking, why couldn't we have had the evening to ourselves. I might have been able to explain things. I might have been able to convince him. She lay awake a long time wondering if Bart had gone back to the hotel.
Should she be more demonstrative?
Should she try to make Bart jealous? It would have been so easy with Lieutenant Jackson. No, no matter what happened to her she would never be like Milly. But should she forget her scruples and offer to marry him?
What could a nice girl do to hold the man she loved? On Bart's last evening he was having dinner with Majel and her Grandmother, when Mary Stuart, an old friend, came in. She was incoherent with excitement but they finally gathered that she was leaving the next day to marry a man she had met the summer before and seen but twice since. "But, Mary, you hardly know him," Majel said in shocked surprise. "And how could you live on a private's pay?" "Why, I know him better than Fve ever known anyone," Mary answered indignantly. "And as for living, Fll get a job. A stenographer can get work anywhere." OART got up from the table and patted her shoulder. "Good girl," he said. "You're doing exactly right. If you want him, better grab him before some other girl does."
Mary smiled and said "Thanks. That's the first good word I've heard."
Majel thought, that's what he really believes. That's how he wants me to be. He can't see the difference between Mary's problem and mine.
Bart left early because he was taking a midnight plane and he didn't suggest that Majel see him off. He kissed her and told her that he would write soon. She might have been just any girl he had taken out a few times. She cried when he was gone because the ten days had been such a failure. He knew, of course, that school would be out in three months, and the chief obstacle to their marriage removed, but he hadn't mentioned it. And he hadn't given her a ring. Of course, she still had his fraternity pin but a ring seemed so much more definite.

The Bottom Drawer (Continued from page 591) and sat on the floor beside her cedar chest. She took out all her beautiful things and looked at them one by one. What dreams and hopes she had put into them and now they seemed to be the barrier between her and Bart. With a sigh, she replaced them carefully. I'd better get back to bed, she thought. No matter how I feel I must be on hand to teach the children in the morning. One afternoon the next week when Majel got home she found Grandma lying on the couch gasping for breath. The doctor looked grave as he said accusingly, "You?ve been worrying about something." To Majel at the door, he said, "It's this war. Keep her from thinking about it. She can stand about one more attack like that." Majel went back and knelt by the couch. She smoothed back the soft white hair. "You've been worrying about me," she said. "Well, you just get well and I'll be all right." As she got dinner she thought back over the thirteen years she had lived with her grandmother. She must have been a trial at first and a great responsibility. Grandma might have had a very different life without her? trips and friends of her own age. She shouldn't have let Grandma put her through college either. She knew now that she had done right in staying. Bart's letters came now at irregular intervals, sometimes three weeks apart. They were interesting, though, telling of places around New York he visited, of dances at the field. But he never used the extravagant terms of endearment that had so amused her, and he never mentioned the future. Soon after school was out in June, a different kind of letter came. He wrote, "Sometimes when I'm ten thousand feet up I have the strangest impulse to turn west and fly straight back to you. Instead, I'll probably soon be moving east where I can't even be sure of your prim, sweet little letters." This was too much for Majel. She went to her room and cried a long time. When Grandma called her to dinner her eyes were still red but Grandma seemed not to notice. It was not until they were clearing the table that she asked, "You got a letter, didn't you?" Majel said, "Yes." "Is he about through at Long Island?" Another "yes" was all Majel could manage. They were washing the dishes when Grandma spoke again. "You know what I'd do? I'd go and marry him before he goes. I'd fly to get there." Nothing in Majel's life had ever surprised her so much. "Why, Grandma," she faltered. "You?ve always said such marriages weren't decent." GRANDMA interrupted impatiently. "I can change, can't I? I'm in this war, too, and everybody says war changes people." "But he hasn't asked me to come," Majel objected. Grandma seemed not to hear. "You could leave tomorrow and you needn't worry about me. I'm going to visit Cousin Clara. I've already written to her."
Then Majel laughed and hugged her tight. "You're not fooling me a bit," she said, "but I'll do it. You start packing while I get reservations."
When Majel saw Bart all her confidence left her. But his hug and kiss were ardent enough. He guided her over towards the cafe saying, "We'll get something to eat while the baggage is being sorted."
Not until they were through did he demand, "Now tell me, what's the idea?"
"Is it too late?" Majel asked, scarcely above a whisper.
"You surely don't mean you'd marry me now when you wouldn't three months ago. Why, we could have only two or three days together."
Majel spoke rapidly. "You thought it was a home with nice things I wanted. But it wasn't. All those things in my 'bottom drawer' were just?just something to keep me busy while I waited. I could be happy with you in an auto court even. It was my contract. If was my responsibility to Grandma. Oh, Bart, I've been so unhappy because you didn't understand."
"Understand?" At last he said, "Maybe I do now. I've done a lot of thinking." He paused?then laughed. "Why, I suppose, marriage to you is a sort of contract and ?and?a responsibility."
"Yes, oh, yes," she said.
"And I could be sure of having a wife waiting for me when the war is over?"
"Yes."
"Oh, my dear, I guess I like you just the way you are." He took from his pocket a little green velvet box. In it were two rings?one with a large diamond and the other a band. As Majel watched with shining eyes, he took out the engagement ring, reached across the table for her hand and slipped the ring on.
"There," he said, "I've had them three months." Then his voice took on a familiar, teasing tone. "Not that I haven't tried to find someone in New York to give them to."
When Majel heard that tone she knew that everything was right between them. She brushed. "No one would look twice at you. They could all see the sign 'taken' right across your forehead."
Bart got up. "Come on," he said, "I understand it takes time to get married in New York and we haven't a minute to lose." OCHRE LEAVES Ruby Baird Andersen In zeal, my neighbors heaped their leaves in mounds Then watched them go, in curling, smoky spires; And smugly thought: "How neat?my grounds." Not I, to burn such gold in sacrificial pyres. What though the flame of autumn soon expires, Remembered still are buds that April knows, And sound of wind on summer's leafy lyres. Deserving now, these leaves, of some repose, Intimate with earth and kindly fallen snows. Notes
FROM THE FIELD
