[Vol32 | October 1945 | Sequence: 04 | Category: Article | Title: Shall I Be an Active Barker]

Shall I Be an Active Member of Relief Society? A Question Which is Vital to Every Woman in the Church Kate M. Barker Former Member Relief Society General Board 
AT the dedication of the science hall on the campus of one of our large universities, a student guide explained to the group he was conducting, "In this room the tables for these sensitive instruments are stone pillars built on solid rock. If we are to get accurate readings it is necessary to have a foundation that goes down below the vibrations, shocks, and jars of the earth's surface."
When the news came of the restoration of peace to the world, we received it with humble, prayerful thanksgiving. For five long years we had prayed for this moment, hoping that if the opportunity were given us again we would build a better world. The war has been a major spiritual shock. For five years we have seen the result of the greed, false pride, and selfishness that was the war's antecedents. Every day the press and the radio have brought us graphic accounts of man's "inhumanity to man." So shocking have been the devastating events of the past years, that evil has seemed to far overshow good and we have become almost fearful of life.
At the same time that peace came we realized we were facing a new age a stupendous new age, the fruits of which, when the reactionary forces will be harnessed for man's
destruction or blessing. When the voice of the President of the United States came over the radio announcing the dropping of the atomic bomb with its resulting terrible devastation and loss of life, the first universal reaction was one of fear. "It is a harnessing of the basic powers of the universe," came the voice of the President, and we stood awestruck, fearful. Verily "men's hearts failed them."
"Can truth and goodness triumph?" we ask. "What does the future hold for our children?"
As in the case of the delicate scientific instruments, in times like these man's spiritual nature must be anchored on solid rock. Unless the foundations of our faith are so anchored, the contemporary shocks of world affairs will find us confused and fearful; and our reading of life's scales will be only surface readings and not accurate readings.
The challenging words of our Savior to his disciples can be applied to us. "Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith?" And the comforting words, "And this word, Yet once more ... signifieth the removing of those things that are shaken ... that those things which cannot be shaken may remain" (Heb. 12:27).
Our faith, then, assures us that now after the world hurricane has
passed, we shall find that the things of real value have survived. Beauty will remain beauty in earth and sea and sky; beauty in art, music, literature; beauty in character, in life. Truth also will remain. Goodness will survive. God still lives and will guide our destinies if we but let him and are willing to cooperate. We have lost some of our worldly assets, but the real values will carry through. They will survive for all to choose who will.
So the present, instead of making us despondent, should be a challenge. Surely we are thanking our Heavenly Father today more gratefully than ever for the gospel and for his Church. Surely now more than ever our testimonies seem priceless, and we are resolved that their foundations must go deeper and deeper until "surface shocks" of life cannot weaken them. Now we know that the thing we desire above all else for our children is a testimony of the gospel of Jesus Christ, a testimony so strong that it will be the motivating force always in their lives, a testimony and faith anchored so deeply and solidly that it will stand against all life's storms.
The use to which these tremendous forces which have been harnessed will be put, will depend on us. It will take intelligence. Such an age as we are facing demands strong people, a people who have faith in God, in mankind, and in man's destiny. We realize that the world is going to be filled with confusion, problems, and great demands.
No generation of women has ever faced greater responsibility. The home must be the nucleus for the better world; and the home cannot
be protected by merely negative ethics you must not do this, you must not do that. We must build a more definite, constructive faith in the basic, eternal, guiding principles of life. We must know as never before the divine plans for our happiness and welfare. Surely, the women of the Church, having faced the horrors of the war years, are resolved that henceforth their homes shall be built on the solid foundation of faith and, having seen the world suffering from so much that is false and ugly, are resolved that, insofar as they are able to control, only truth shall enter the home such truth as gives beauty to life and dignity to mankind and to human relationships.
WOMAN has a great responsibility in setting standards and maintaining the spiritual and cultural level of the home and community. Our Father in heaven, knowing our needs to meet this responsibility, has been kind to the women of the Church. He has given them an organization of their own in which they can seek all those things that are "virtuous, lovely, and of good report" as the Prophet said, "according to their natures." We do not learn best by ourselves added understanding, added appreciation comes with contact with the ideas and experiences of others.
The knowledge most worthwhile is certainly an understanding of the greatest needs of the beauty in the gospel, which is God's plan for our happiness. We could study all the greatest literature and no doubt never new beauty would unfold. As our knowledge and testimony increase, life takes on new meaning and beauty.
Our Relief Society gives us the opportunity of a course of study that has been prayerfully planned and as broad as life itself spiritual, cultural, practical. We can be sure that only truth is contained therein, that everything given is worthwhile. Facts alone may be cold, but when interpreted in the light of the gospel, they take on glorious meanings. Our Relief Society teaching is done in "the light of the gospel."
Today, we must seek our happiness in a world where experiences, in a variety of ways, are continually attacking our faith and menacing our homes and our chances for a satisfying life. The modern tempo is characterized by an acid type of cynicism which does not believe that anything in the world is worthy of our serious allegiance. When people feel this way, not only marriage ties but all human relationships lose value, and life loses its sense of direction. And yet in every human soul is a longing for loyalty to something outside ourselves. The dictators have capitalized on this innate longing in their appeal to the young. "Cynicism is defeatism applied to ideals." We can best be protected from it by the atmosphere of a loyal group working together for worthy ends.
So, active membership, loyalty to the Church is the finest safeguard against this defeatism, and all the resultant things that are cheap and shallow. The lack of intense loyalties to worthy causes is one of the great spiritual losses of modern times. Most parents desire greatly that their children belong to and feel a loyalty to their Church organization; yet, sometimes to us, we that the things they say and do, the
loyalties they show, forge themselves into a pattern for their children, and children are influenced most by those whom they love most.
Moreover, seeing is believing. We of the older generation whose parents or grandparents sacrificed so much to be true to the Church, have a background whose influence can seldom be entirely lost. We may become inactive and apparently indifferent for awhile, and then in later life repent. But what about our children who have seen only our disloyalties? President George Albert Smith, in a recent talk in Bonneville Stake, told the story of the son of one of our brethren who drifted away from all Church activity. In later life he realized what he was missing and returned to the Church, but found that his interest in the Church or its ideals could be aroused in his children. As President Smith said, "He could repent but he could not repent for his children." In the fine lives of our children is our greatest joy, and in their failure is our greatest sorrow, especially when we realize that some fault of our own has contributed to that failure.
We can be no greater than our loyalties. The women of the Church have a divinely organized, divinely guided organization which is deserving of their greatest loyalty.
FRIENDSHIP is one of the finest spiritual experiences and one of the greatest needs of the human soul. We find strength in companionship. Loss of sincere, loyal friendships has been another of the spiritual losses in our superficial, material-minded, modern age. Relief Society offers the opportunity for building close, warm, sincere friendships with women who will share their courage, vision and faith with us. The world is crying for greater understanding sincere friendships. We of the Church must demonstrate that true friendship can be had that groups of women can organize work together, study together, in understanding and sympathy the joy of one bringing joy to all, the sorrow of one bringing sorrow to all, the reputation of each being the concern of all. Spiritual life flourishes in such deeply knit groups. The Prophet Joseph Smith, when organizing Relief Society, promised, "If you live up to your privileges, the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates." Are we missing this great blessing because of lack of unity and because of the apathy of some to sense their responsibilities? What great spiritual benefit, what great strength to the Church would surely come if, in every ward, all the women were united in such groups!
Adults do not grow unless they serve. The opportunities for service in Relief Society are many. Someone has said that in service one and one are more than two but two together can accomplish more than two working alone. There is power in united effort, though the individual contribution may be small, yet if each does his share a few hours, what a wonderful contribution their united efforts make to the great Church Welfare Plan. Our little becomes part of a great whole.
The average attendance at Relief Society meetings is low. There is too often the feeling that absence from meetings affects only the members who absent themselves, that
ization can never realize its highest potentialities until every woman senses her responsibility, that there is an influence, a spirit, an interest and enthusiasm which the alone can give, that there is a definite plan and need for her at each meeting.
An unusual custom is observed in a small English country chapel at evening services. At the end of each pew is a candlestick. When the family is not constantly uses that pew is ushered in, the candle is lighted. When the family is not present the pew remains dark. When we are absent from meeting our place remains dark.
To every woman of the Church our Father in heaven has given the opportunities that come in Relief Society, and every woman has the responsibility for the success of the organization. As members of the Church we must choose opportunities and responsibilities are ours. There can be no question as to that. The only question is, will each one of us gratefully seize these opportunities, and will each one of us gladly accept our responsibilities?
Today, there are many avenues of activity for women outside the home. But we have limited time and energy we must choose wisely and spend it well. It seems especially true of mothers that there is often confusion when they leave home, unless some responsible person can make for the children the little while she is away. Every woman needs mental stimulus, spiritual enrichment, friendly associates. How necessary it is that we get our values straight that our life's perspective be right and that we attend our activities accordingly. The hours spent in Relief Society are not hours selfishly spent. We put our market basket on our arm, as it were, and go forth to obtain food, spiritual food, to share with the family.
IT is therefore vital that every woman in the Church should ask herself the question, "Shall I be active in Relief Society?" Each one should get her values straight and answer fairly.
Why Should I?
Because I want a living, growing testimony of the gospel and an understanding of woman's nature. The Relief Society lessons and discussions help me in this understanding.
Because I want to continue my education along the lines I most need. Relief Society offers an educational course which as the Prophet said is "according to woman's nature."
Because I want intellectual and spiritual contacts with women of like ideals. Relief Society offers me these contacts.
Because I need sincere friendships. Relief Society offers me the opportunity for forming such friendships.
Because I want to get all the truth and beauty I can. I want life to be meaningful. Everything offered in Relief Society is worthwhile.
Because I need help in being a homemaker. Relief Society gives this help.
Because I want to be associated with an organization deserving my greatest loyalty. Relief Society, divinely organized and divinely directed, is worthy of my greatest loyalty.
Because I am thankful for the blessings the Church has brought me, I will show my appreciation by my activity. I want happiness and satisfaction in life. Our Father in heaven has told us to meet together often as sisters. I will follow his advice.
Because I wish to serve. In Relief Society my little becomes a part of a great service.
Because I have the opportunity of joining an organization which, in origin and nature, is different from all other women's organizations.
Because I want to face life eagerly and courageously, my faith, my loyalties must be so firmly anchored that I can read life's values accurately.