[Vol32 | October 1945 | Sequence: 22 | Category: Article | Title: Theology Building an Driggs]

LESSON DEPARTMENT Theology Church History Lesson 12?Building an Empire in the West Dr. H. Wayne Driggs For Tuesday, January 8, 1946
Objective: To indicate the continued fulfillment of prophecy concerning the gathering of Israel. THE day which followed the arrival of the first company of saints into the valley of the Great Salt Lake was the Sabbath. Fittingly enough this should have been so, for these were a people who had chosen the Lord for their king. In their struggling efforts to establish his kingdom in the East, the Mormon people had found nothing but bitter opposition. Therefore, the Lord led his people where they would be unmolested in their efforts to establish his work.
To bring the nations of the earth to a knowledge of the literal establishment of such a kingdom was, however, the purpose of God. In his wisdom, therefore, he prepared a place for his saints to gather where they might become strong, a place of refuge among the towering rocks and hidden valleys of the mountains. Here, as a peculiar people, they too must be prepared, that they live and obey his laws, which eventually all men, too, must obey if they would enjoy peace and the blessings of prosperity.
President Brigham Young's first advice to the saints on that July 25, 1847, was concerning one of the laws of God?that of keeping the Sabbath day holy. Weakened as a result of an illness which had seized him just before the company of first pioneers entered the Valley, he expressed his wishes briefly. Elder Wilford Woodruff recorded his remarks as follows: "He told the brethren that they must not work on Sunday; that they would lose five times as much as they would gain by it. None were to hunt on that day and there should not any man dwell among us who would not observe these rules. They might go and dwell where they pleased, but should not dwell with us" (Josmer Paramos Saints without Halos in Church History, page 451).
These remarks and the spirit which prompted them were typical of the serious manner with which
Page
624 LESSON DEPARTMENT 625 the followers of this Prophet regarded the literal acceptance of God's word.
Within the period of the first ten years that followed the entrance of the saints into the promised land, they set to work with zeal bringing about the fulfillment of many of the great and beautiful prophecies of the seers of old. It was an eventful ten years from 1847 to 1857.
Within this decade, hundreds of Mormons, from many nations of the earth, having left their homes, streamed into the Valley.
There was hard work to be done if the desert was to blossom as the rose, and scouting expeditions to be sent throughout the vast mountain regions if the stakes of Zion were to be set and lengthened (Isa. 54:2). An actual ensign was to be raised upon the hills that all people who would hear might know that Zion was again, and that they could flow into it.
Temples were to be erected, since God had said that his people were always commanded to build a holy house unto his name (Doc. And Gov. 124:39). The land of Deseret or the "Honey Bee" it would become, as the Book of Mormon term implied.
Visioning the industry and zeal with which the latter-day work of Israel would be carried forth, Isaiah, the ancient prophet, wrote: And they shall build the old wastes, they shall raise up the former desolation and they shall repair the waste cities, the desolations of many generations (Isaiah 61:4). And of the people and their abode, he said: He that walketh righteously, and speak-eth uprightiy; he that despiseth the gain of oppressions, that shaketh his hands firom holding of bribes, that stoppeth his ears from hearing of blood, and shutteth his eyes from seeing evil; He shall dwell on high: his place of defence shall be the munitions of rocks: bread shall be given him; his waters shall be sure.
Thine eyes shall see the king in his beauty: they shall behold the land that is very far off.
Thine heart shall meditate terror.
Where is the scribe?
Where is the receiver?
Where is he that counted the towers?
Thou shall not see a fierce people, a people of a deeper speech than thou canst perceive; of a stammering tongue, that thou canst not understand.
Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities; thine eyes shall see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, a tabernacle that shall not be taken down; not one of the stakes thereof shall ever be removed, neither shall any of the cords thereof be broken. But there the glorious Lord will be unto us a place of broad rivers and streams; wherein shall go no galley with oars, neither shall gallant ship pass thereby" (Isaiah 33:15-21). The actual story of the events which now are history and which now outline the early acts performed in laying the foundations of an empire in the West are filled with the color of human endeavor, courage and self-sacrifice.
Soil was broken on the 23rd and 24th of July, that the seed so carefully treasured during the journey west might find its early germination in the Valley. When Monday morning, July 26th, arrived, eager exploring parties set out, some to the west of the valley beyond the Western Jordan River. John Brown and Joseph Matthews were among this group.
Others went east into the canyons to return with reports of good timber. Wil-ford Woodruff and a party turned north to discover warm springs, and the next day they went west again into the Tooele valley. It was Orson Pratt who, on the trip, climbed a mountain to view Utah Lake. All companies returned with the feeling 
 ?OCTOBER 1945 that their present site in the valley of the Great Salt Lake was the best place in which to lay out the city with its temple to the Lord. It was on the 26th also that a party, including President Brigham Young ascended what is now known as "Ensign Peak" to the north of Salt Lake. Here it was the desire of President Young to lift up an ensign to the nations spoken of by the Prophet Isaiah.
By the 28th, President Young had designated the site upon which the temple to the Lord would be built. He said: "Here is the forty acres for the temple, and the city can be laid out perfectly square north and south, east and west."
Events throughout the rest of the summer months moved on smoothly. A fort was built on the square now known as Pioneer Park in Salt Lake City. This, it was felt, would serve as a protection against the Indians who by now were crowding around the saints to beg and steal. With the return of part of the Mormon Battalion, added strength was given to the colony. On October 3, 1847, a conference was held at which Elder John Smith, uncle of the Prophet Joseph Smith [and great-grandfather of President George Albert Smith], was sustained as the first president of the Salt Lake Stake of Zion. The year 1847 closed with a total of 2,095 souls in the Salt Lake Valley.
One of the most beautiful stories for the saints of the first years in the mountains is that of the crickets and the gulls. The feeding of Elijah by the ravens will ever be remembered to stir the love for birds and their courage to share when it is scarce, where in modern times can one turn for a more inspiring account of mercy from the skies than to that of the winged gulls from off the shores of Great Salt Lake.
No real crop was gathered by the saints for the season of 1847. The pioneers had arrived too late that year to expect much of a harvest. It was then to the spring and summer of 1848 that they must look for a yield if they were to live. The planting season for that year came, and, as the tender shoots pushed forth, the hopes for a bountiful harvest were high. May and June, however, brought not only the sunshine, but danger. Armies of marching crickets trooped down from the mountain sides to mow the fields. Trenches were dug, fires built, cattle and men called to tramp out the insects, but to no avail. Finally, in tearful supplication, the saints poured out their hearts to the Lord for deliverance. As they raised their eyes, what appeared to be a black cloud overhead shortly took shape in the form of hundreds of white-breasted gulls. At first, stricken by fear, lest these birds had come to finish what the crickets had left, the saints stolidly watched. But fear was not to be their lot, for, instead of feasting upon the crops, the birds hacked at the pests, and, gorging themselves, winged off to disgorge their feed. They returned again and again to repeat the attack until, with raucous cries, they wheeled into the air and vanished from sight. It was the miracle of the gulls these modern children of Israel had witnessed. Today, upon Temple Square in Salt Lake City, there stands the fine monument of its kind to a bird, and beneath its shaft is cast, in bronze, the story of the Utah seagull.
LESSON DEPARTMENT 627 In other early accounts of this beginning empire in the West are recorded the stories of trips by President Brigham Young and others of the leading brethren back and forth across the plains to Winter Quarters.
They were ever interested in bringing safely into the land of Zion the many souls who daily were embracing the gospel. It was on one of the trips back to Missouri that the apostles met and organized the First Presidency with Brigham Young, Heber C. Kimball, and Willard Richards as the first three men to hold these offices in the presidency since the martyrdom of the Prophet Joseph Smith and his brother Hy-rum.
About that time, too, Oliver Cowdery returned to the Church and again was baptized a member. In Zion, in the month of March 1849, the first political convention was called. The saints were desirous of having their territory under the flag of the United States. Then, in September of 1850, President Millard Fillmore appointed the first federal officers for the Territory of Utah with Brigham Young as governor. The years ahead were to be stormy since, in the main, weak officials who sought personal gains in office were sent to assume control over the saints in their new Territory. A most important event of these years came with the laying of the cornerstones of the temple on April 6, 1853.
Each stone was laid with dedicatory prayers of thanksgiving.
Among the significant thoughts expressed that day were these by President Brigham Young: We dedicate the south-east corner stone of the temple to the Most High God. May it remain in peace till it has done its work, and until He who has inspired our hearts to fulfil the prophecies of His holy prophets, that the house of the Lord should be reared in the "tops of the Mountains" shall be satisfied, and say it is enough. (Joseph Fielding Smith, Essentials in Church History, page 482). The prophecies of old are being fulfilled. * Suggestions for Active Reading and Discussion With the help of the suggestive readings given below have the class carry on the discussion as follows: first, answer the question; second, read the assigned part of the text to discover wherein we must "give heed unto his word." 1. In the month of December 1830 came the word of the Lord to the Prophet Joseph Smith concerning the place of Zion. It reads, "Keep all the commandments and covenants by which ye are bound; and I will cause the heavens to shake for your good, and Satan shall tremble and Zion shall rejoice upon the hills and flourish" (Doc. And Gov. 35:24). Why were the hills to which the saints were to go so desirable a place for God's people?
Bring in a map of the Rocky Mountain region centered about Utah.
Find in some history text an account of the "Land of the Northern Mystery" (The Great Salt Lake Basin). See Howard R. Driggs, Westward America, page 16. Read Doc. And Gov. 38:13-22.
Note especially verse 19.
This revelation was given at the third general conference of the Church. 2.
What may those expect who keep the commandments and inherit the land of Zion?
Read and discuss the revelation given through Joseph, the Seer in Jackson Gounty, Missouri, August 7, 1831 (Doc. And Gov. 59). See Doc. And Cov. Commentary, pages 246-247. Footnote.
Assign chapter 40, Essentials in Church History, for additional facts of interest concerning the first months in the Valley.
Also see "Utah's First July 24th Celebration," by Harold H. Jenson, Improvement Era, July 1942.