[Vol32 | October 1945 | Sequence: 02 | Category: Article | Title: Family Prayer Petersen]
Family Prayer Elder Mark E. Petersen Member Council of the Twelve FOUR little girls of Bee-Hive age spent a week together last summer in an M.I.A. sponsored home in a nearby canyon. On arriving at the home, they were assigned to a sleeping room large enough to accommodate all four of them. With joyous anticipation they unpacked their things and prepared for a week of genuine vacation.
That first night before retiring, one of the girls brought up the subject of saying evening prayers. What were the girls to do about it? Should each one say her own secret prayer? Should they all pray as a group? Or should they do both?
It required little time for solution of the question because all of these girls came from praying homes. They decided that each night and morning they would kneel together as a group, each one taking a turn in being voice. In addition, each girl would have her own secret prayers. That was the custom at home. So the girls prayed together, and they had agreed separately, not allowing even a vacation to interfere with their devotions.
Is there a father or a mother anywhere, who would not be proud of little girls who were thus true to the faith? And is there a ward or a stake which would not be proud of parents who thus teach their little ones to pray?
A marine fighting on a Pacific Island was commanded to take his men through heavy fire into an extremely dangerous position to destroy Japanese emplacements. Before going, he and some of his men knelt in prayer. He wrote home:
As we started from the protection of our foxhole, a strange thing happened. All enemy fire lifted. We completed our mission. We then returned to our foxholes. We had no more than got well down in them when enemy fire opened up again, but we were safe and sound. We were praying and thanking our Heavenly Father for so openly answering our prayers and protecting our lives. How great are the blessings shed out upon those who diligently seek his help.
When boys and girls pray as did these young people, there is a reason for it. They had been taught to pray, even from infancy. But while they were thus being taught they learned something else as well to have faith in God, and to exercise that faith in bringing down upon themselves the blessings of heaven.
Where were they taught this faith, and where did they learn to pray? In their homes with their families, as father, mother, and children knelt together night and morning expressing their gratitude to the Lord for blessings already received, and asking for his continued help and guidance, protection and care, in the days and nights to come.
Page 
  OCTOBER 1945
Latter-day Saints recognize that as a people and as individuals, we have one principal purpose in life, and that is to work out our salvation here on the earth and to teach our children and others who will listen to us to do likewise. We work out our salvation by keeping the commandments" of the Lord, by participating in the program of the Church, by following and sustaining those who preside over us, and by being loyal and true to the trust that is placed in us by our Heavenly Father. FAMILY prayer provides one of the most important means of accomplishing this great purpose. Let us first look at family prayer from the standpoint of the children in the home. As parents we have been commanded to teach the gospel to our children, to convert them to its principles, and to rear them in its light, habituating them to the mode of life advised by the Church. Our children need teaching and converting just as much as do those to whom we preach in the mission field.
They do not bring with them into this life a knowledge of the gospel.
They must acquire it here. President Grant at one time illustrated this point by saying that both he and his wife had a good working knowledge of the multiplication tables at the time they were married, but this gave them no assurance that their children would be born with a knowledge of the multiplication tables. The children had to be taught those tables, and how to use them. He said the same thing holds true with regard to a knowledge of the gospel.
Children are not born with any such knowledge; they must acquire it here in mortality.
There is no place where the gospel can be presented more effectively to children than in the home, and no persons are more interested in having it thus presented than are the parents.
Family prayer can form the basis for the religious education of our children if we choose to make it so.
Through family prayer, little children can learn of the existence of God.
They can learn that by praying to the Lord, they can obtain the blessings they need.
Through family prayer and associated instruction in the home, we may point out to our little ones that obedience to the Lord is an essential part of seeking blessings from him, and that if we believe in him, and obey his commandments, we are in a favorable position to pray for and receive the blessings we need.
Through family prayer we may teach our children gratitude, that all good things come from God, and that we owe him our thanks for these blessings.
