[Vol32 | October 1945 | Sequence: 13 | Category: Editorial | Title: Comfort Ye My Sharp]

601 EDITORIAL 



VOL.
32 OCTOBER 1945 NO. 10 ?Comfort Ye MY People? Isaiah 40:1 WORLD War II has ended.
With the reported cessation of hostilities in Japan and the Far East, once more the healing wings of peace are enfolding the world. And, although many of the fighting forces still remain far from their native hearthstones, the comforting assurance has come to their loved ones that no longer are they called upon to face the horrors and destruction of a total war. The year A. D. 1945 will ever mark the close of an old era?one of sorrow and grief for the mothers of men?and the beginning of a new era. The unleashing of a new force in the final phase of the war, whose future power either for good or evil seems to be incalculable, foreshadows the new world era. If the inhabitants of the earth turn to righteousness, and this power is harnessed and developed for the good of man, its future use may prove a blessing to humanity In the hands of wicked and ungodly men, however, the development of this new force, as evidenced in the action of the atomic bomb, may result in the utter destruction of the human race.
Such a supposition recalls to the minds of Latter-day Saints the words of the Lord: For I, the Almighty, have laid my hands upon the nations, to scourge them for their Page 602 wickedness. And plagues shall go forth, and they shall not be taken from the earth until I have completed my work, which shall be cut short in righteousness (Doc. And Gov. 84:96-97). May the prayers of the righteous ascend upward in ceaseless supplication that a spirit of righteousness may abide in the hearts of mankind. The assurance of peace at this time brings a spirit of joy and thanksgiving to Relief Society members throughout the world.
Faithfully and well through these past years have they carried on the work of the Society.
With their own hearts torn and their sensibilities at times harrowed up almost beyond endurance, they have continued to meet together, oftimes under difficult conditions, to relieve the distress of the less fortunate and to mingle their fears, doubts, hopes, and even tears, in a closeness of spirit.
They have added to their ability to carry on from the truths of the gospel they have been taught and from increasing the strength of their testimonies.
Those women whose wounds will never entirely heal, who have been called upon to bear the supreme loss of a loved father, husband, or son, unselfishly rejoice in the happiness of their sisters and the blessings still remaining to them.
With the removal, of the terrible anxiety which has oppressed the
EDITORIAL 603 spirits of the women of the Church, and with restrictions on meetings lifted, there must come to Relief Society a great upwelling and resurgence of power. The future lies ahead unknown, but all the calls that may come to the Society will be met if members answer every call made upon them as individuals.
Each day the Church Welfare Plan broadens and deepens. The part of Relief Society women in this Plan is great. The responsibility of the Society in saving souls by teaching and living the gospel, is also great.
Only by a rededication by the women of the Church?the young ones as well as the older ones?to the work of Relief Society will it be able to fulfill its destiny in the years ahead.
Endowed with the grace of humble hearts and contrite spirits, the women of the Church everywhere will work together?for only through their magnificent, united accomplishments will the unbounded potentialities of Relief Society be realized. And the righteousness of the daughters of Zion will be pleasing unto the Lord. M. C. S. THE fall time, the waning of the year, to some people foreshadows a season of dryness and decay, to be followed by the blanketing numbness of winter. So it appeared to the poet Bryant who lamented: The melancholy days are come, the saddest of the year; Of wailing winds and naked woods, and meadows brown and sere. To such people the fall seems a dread season, a time of regret and heartache, of farewell to happy, carefree days, and a time to shoulder the burdens which are waiting. The word "fall" itself connotes a time of decline, an ebbing away of the fulness, a gradual withdrawing of pulsating life which leaves behind but a hardened shell, an empty husk, and a baren waste. To others, the third quarter of the year is best described by the term new ?John Banister Tabb "autumn," an uncertain time, typifying the unpredictable, the colorful, whirling, restless season of the year when activities which have been slumbering in the hot, languorous days of summer are revived; when the blood quickens in tempo with the biting winds without, and energy and spirit are renewed. The keen expectancy of a new school year with friendships and pleasures still untested, seems to pervade the very air. The snatching of unlearned books, the rushing out to meet playmates, the boisterous chatter of children, gaily attired in plaids and brilliant sweaters to match the kaleidoscopic colors of the foliage, punctuates the stillness of the morning. The noontide quiet is shattered by the calls of the released boys and girls who run home, sniffing and exclaiming over the sharpness of pepper-red chili sauce, the acrid tang of pickles or  cloying sweetness of preserves, and the unforgettable odor of freshly baked bread. The dancing leaves outside the kitchen door cast a living applique of shadow over the luncheon scene.
Tempting samples from bottles whose contents are to be more fully enjoyed in the long months ahead, make these occasions ones to be cherished and recalled in future years.
Such sunny, bright days may be interrupted by days of winds and rain, when the family gathers in close companionship around a crackling grate fire, and gratitude wells up in the hearts of the surrounding half circle for the plenty and security found within the beloved home. And after such days of blustery rains and squalls comes a ring of days, each one a jewel reflecting russet, saffron, taffeta tans or tawny orange, with here and there the glowing red of the sumac on the hill, all set in a gleaming band of maple gold. The season of all seasons?Indian summer. Then, as the days grow short and night shadows lengthen, the blaze of color painted by the Master Artist is swept away by the mighty brush of winds, and the mind comes to accept the changelessness of changes?of the season, moods, and circumstances.
Over the glory of the beauty that was autumn imperceptibly but surely steals the gaunt, stark beauty of the winter. One is. Led to acknowledge the hand of the Lord over all in the inevitableness and lightness of the changes that enter into the lives of his children, as in the seasons, and to accept, with thankfulness, the sorrows, as well as the joys, of mortality. M. C. S. AN UNWEEDED GARDEN Caroline Eyring Miner How weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable, Seems to me all the uses of this world! Fie on't! Oh fie, fie! 'Tis an unweeded garden That grows to seed; things rank and gross in nature Possess it merely.
That it should come to this!
Were these lines written in 1945, before the end of the war? No, but they might have been as far as their application is concerned, and yet they were penned by the hand of Shakespeare in the sixteenth century. Unbelievable, do I hear you say, that our mechanized and scientific world should have come from that unweeded garden of the sixteenth century? And yet it did. On the same foundation, may we not hope that four hundred years from now it will seem unbelievable to our descendants that out of the economic and social chaos of 1945, the idealistic order of that day could have come? Nevertheless, I believe it will be said. NOTES TO THE FIELD Relief Society Singing Activities Encouraged IT is gratifying to know that, despite these strenuous times, so many of the Relief Society singing groups have remained intact and have been able to keep their membership and often have increased it. We realize that due to the restrictive conditions that have been brought about because of the war this has not been possible in some areas.
The General Board appreciates the fine leadership and effort that have been put into the organizations of the Singing Mothers and that have made them distinctive and valuable.
Those who participate in these singing groups receive many cultural benefits as well as rendering worthy service to the Relief Society and
to the Church in general. This was definitely emphasized by our beloved President Grant in the following lines:
The singing of our sacred hymns written by the servants of God has a powerful effect in converting people to the principles of the gospel and in promoting peace and spiritual growth. Singing is a prayer to the Lord, as He has said: "For any soul delighteth in the song of the heart: yea, the song of the righteous is a prayer unto me, and it shall be answered with a blessing upon their heads."
We therefore hope that every Relief Society member who is able to sing will affiliate herself with these singing groups and receive the blessings and inspiration of such endeavor. TAWDRY JADE Courtney E. Cottam Oh, Autumn is a tawdry jade, Ragged skirts aflutter. Her hair unkempt, and 'round her feet Summer's useless clutter. * She dresses in a tawny red, Gypsy-gay, and bright. Spurning pastel shades of spring And winter's pristine white. Her heart is warm, and through her hands Pours the harvest yield. Garnered by this tawdry jade From fruiting tree and field. Page 605
And For Eternity Olive Woolley Burt CHAPTER V SYNOPSIS Delsa Marriott, who has not divulged the fact that her fiance, Hugh Temple, wants to break their engagement, is condemned by the townsfolk for what they consider an unseemly interest in Jeff Holden. In order to show them that Jeff means nothing to her, and yet save her face in the affair with Hugh, Delsa decides to appear captivated by Alec Windsor, a marine visiting Delsa's friend, Jim Lewis. THE whole town was excited over Jim's and Lina's wedding. No one was so small, so unimportant, that he didn't have a part in the preparations that now went forward. Jim and Lina were to go to Salt Lake City on Thursday and be married in the temple. Then they would return home, and that evening a big reception would be given for them. Not only was the whole town invited?but the whole valley, as well. Friends and relatives from far and near would gather in the ward amusement hall to wish the young couple happiness, and to dance and eat. "It's going to be a real, old-fashioned wedding," Lina told Delsa happily. "Dad and Mother think it would be nice to have a get-together like they used to have, years ago. In spite of rationing, some of the women think they can get up a good, hot meal. There'll be dancing and a program?everyone who wants to take part on the program can." Delsa smiled. "I wonder if you know what you're Page 606 letting yourself in for?" she asked. 'Tve heard Mother tell of those old-time affairs?they lasted a good part of the night. You'll be tired after the day in Salt Lake?going through the temple and all." "I don't care!" Lina said, "if Mother and Dad and Jim's folks want an old-time party again, we'll give it to them. We've been so sober for so long. We're going to be happy and all together again for once!" Talk of the wedding even permeated the schoolroom and grounds. Nellie Gibson was learning a recitation to say at Lina's wedding, and the girls' quartet was practicing a song. Delsa stayed after school and played the piano for them. Jeff came over and leaned his elbows on the piano and beat time for the girls, watching Delsa over the bright heads of the youngsters. After the practicing was over, Jeff and Delsa walked down the road toward Jeff's house together. Jeff said, with a strange urgency in his voice, "Are you going to let me take you to the wedding, Delsa?" Delsa laughed, surprise giving a ring to her voice. "Oh, Jeff! You know I don't go anywhere with anyone!" Jeff smiled wryly. "I should think you could go with your principal without hurting your conscience at all. Goodness knows, Delsa, I haven't any idea of beating Hugh's time. It's just that everyone will be going and I thought Delsa put her hand impulsively "How has the town been treating on Jeffs arm. You?" Delsa put her hand impulsively on Jeff's arm.
"It's all right, Jeff," she said. She had remembered, then, that she was no longer bound to Hugh. She could go to the dance with anyone she chose. She felt suddenly cold and alone.
JEFF must have been watching her face more closely than she knew for he spoke quickly. "Don't look like that, Delsa. Hugh'll be back one of these days and then we'll all be dancing at your wedding. I'm sorry I made you unhappy."
They went on in silence, each busy with his own thoughts, until they reached Jeff's gate and Davy came running to meet them.
But when Delsa's work at Jeff's had been done and she went out into the clear blue night, she was startled to see a man's form leaning over the gate, obviously waiting for her. She knew at once that it wasn't Jeff; and almost as immediately she knew who it was?Alec Windsor, the forest green of his marine uniform dark against the starlit sky.
"Hello, there!" he said happily, familiarly, as if he had waited for her every night for years.
Delsa smiled up at him. "This is a surprise!" she cried. "It's been a long, long time since there were young men in town with leisure to lean on gates!"
He answered soberly, "It's been a long, long time since I had leisure to lean on a gate, I assure you. But now that I do have the leisure, I am going to make good use of it."
He fell into step beside her and they walked up the wind-tossed path to Marriott home.
"How has the town been treating you?" Delsa asked, for want of something better to say.
"Fine!" he laughed. "Only everyone is so busy with Jim and Lina and plans for the wedding, I've had to shift for myself a bit today. Not that I mind," he hastened to add, "but I had plenty of time to remember you and how pretty you looked last night with that blue ribbon in your hair. Gosh," he went on, "what you girls could teach those South Sea natives?or could you?"
Delsa laughed. It was definitely pleasant to have someone to walk with in the cool spring evening. And when Alec took her arm and drew her a little closer to his side, she felt the old, half-forgotten thrill of being liked and protected.
They walked slowly, talking of many things, and when they reached Delsa, she turned and looked up at the tall, dark, serious boy who reminded her so much of Hugh.
"Come in and have supper with us," she invited.
He hesitated a moment, and then smiled like a little boy caught in mischief.
"Thanks," he said.
"But I can get Dad to step over and tell your friends . . ." she began, but he grinned more broadly.
"I've already told them that I might not be home to supper," he said. "I had hopes."
"Oh, you marines!" Delsa laughed, and opened the door.
Her parents were happy to have a young man at the table again, and the meal went gaily. Afterward, Alec put on one of Mrs. Marriott's aprons and wiped the dishes for Delsa.  "WHEN the kitchen was shipshape and Delsa would have gone into the living room where her parents were, Alec stopped her. "Let's sit here in the kitchen/" he suggested. "Gosh, it's been so long since I sat in a real kitchen!" He sniffed audibly. "I like the smell of it!" So they drew up chairs and sat beside the table with its red-checked cloth, and talked, with Alec getting up now and then to put sticks of wood into the big, old-fashioned stove.
After a while Delsa said, "It's rather late in the year for popping corn?we generally do that in the winter time. But we still have some good corn left?and it's always fun!" So they popped corn and sprinkled it with salt and with homemade, unrationed butter, and ate it in big handfuls. But at last Alec had to go. He frowned at the big wooden clock ticking away persistently on the kitchen shelf, and said, "You're a school marm, and I know what modern kids are. You'll need all the reinforcement of a good night's sleep to handle them, I bet."
Delsa smiled. "These children aren't bad," she said. "They are just the town kids?I've known them all ever since they were born. I've taught them in Sunday School and Primary?and they aren't spoiled like city children.
They all have plenty of work to do in their homes ?it makes them more responsible and obedient." He looked at her wonderingly. "You really like them, don't you?" he asked. "I wonder if I ever had a teacher that really liked me?" "Of course you did, silly!"
Delsa said with a sudden tightening of her throat.
Alec reached across the table and put his big, brown, hard hand over hers. "Who's taking you to the wedding dance, Delsa?" he asked gently. THERE it was, her chance, handed to her on a silver platter. But she couldn't take it?not just yet.
Delsa thought of Hugh and of Jeff. She could go with Alec?but that was so sudden. It might fool her mother and Hugh's mother, who wanted her to be attracted by the newcomer; but it wouldn't fool Jeff Holden. He would think she had refused him and then had accepted Alec's invitation to show him that she didn't care for him at all? that she didn't want even to trust him as her escort to Jim's and Lina's wedding. She shook her head gently. "No one," she said. "I go with Mother and Dad."
Alec opened his hand, which now held hers, and looked down at her fingers. Hugh's ring, a simple little token?but all that she had wanted ? circled her finger. The tiny diamond winked up at Alec, like a bright tear. "He's pretty wonderful, I'll bet, to have a girl like you waiting for him."
Delsa felt that she ought to defend her position, somehow. She began, hesitatingly, "And there's Millie, Alec. Oh, I don't want to point out your social obligations-it's not that?but I know Millie would feel hurt if you took me?" A sudden smile broke across Alec's dark features, and he squeezed her hand gently. "You're absolutely (Continued on page 620)