CONSIDER THE NECTARINE Then, what had Mr. Dakota said? The tree had grown unevenly. It had put out new wood, new leaves, heavy fruit, only in one direction. Many of us are, without realizing it, growing too much in one direction. Perhaps we are growing physically but not mentally. Or, perhaps even more likely, we may be growing mentally but not emotionally and_ spiritually. The student away from the influence of his home and attending an advanced technological institute may lose touch with his church and come to believe that only those things that can be proved by scientific methods can be of worth. Or, what was that other statement of Mr. Dakota? "Things don't root deep here in California. They grow too fast and too easily. There aren't any winds to buck, either."" I often wonder what differences there would be in me if I had lived the pioneer life. If I had belonged to the Martin Company, for example. But there is still another possible parable. Ivan and I saw the fallen tree. With the help of our neighbor, we set it upright. We knew how to give it temporary support. Perhaps we_ should watch for humans who have fallen, help them to their feet, and assist them until they are again firmly rooted. If we had the gift that Jesus had for telling parables, we might begin an immortal classic with the words: "Consider the nectarine tree, which having put all of its growth on one side, and finding itself in soil that was no longer firm." 749 ] few years, it Seems Me girl, | Was so inefficient! Would just iron 80ing Someplace and C. | would wait for Cfore | would bathe the b y, because! Felt So j " and then j j iMpossible that | 4 Shirt jf my husband Was iM to Come ho at one o: had to Work and Plan to get Everything ready so as | thought the Children Would be Minute Of it. It [ " New Shortcuts Orking with Children All his, and even the Wonderfy| lessons that Made me read and Stud Then the time Was Changeq t Morning bright 4nd ear| Couldn't Bive UP no So | worked 2round the house t nigh Were in b * SO I coulg be ready for Relief Society in the of accomp| hment t was to 80 off knowing things w Yes, | almost forgot—now the Children Were 80ing wit Stay home from the Relief Society nurser Nother Challe &€ came. | Was calle to teach the SOCial sc a Wonderfy| blessing! ] SUPPose teaching is in MY blood. Both aught at Utah Stat University but | had never taught befor Prayed, Prepared, and fast le | aS One of the Oost thrilling life. Tt Still js! Can hardly wait for MY lesson time to come now teaching h theolo €ssons, and they are an inspiration! Have a Wonderfy| husband, Seven Precious Chil ren, and a | 4nd goog! Fee} blesseq e€yond my fondest dreams lam a | blessings because | have learneg t Manage time Wisely, elj tha aren't really 'Mportant, 4nd have learneg to love and ap enjoy my family! Know tha Motherhoog iS the NOblest lessons | learneq trom Relief Society.! Love it from the bott Will spend My life rying t help Other Mothers C for their liv 750 Sixth Year | Eva Willes Wangsgaard Littlest angel is entered in school. My! He's grown inches, so tall and so wise. Leastwise, he has if you use his own rule And read the new measurements through his own eyes. Littlest angel's a student brand new— Head up, chin in, and shoulders held square. He speaks of new friends and homework to do, "Two-times..."' and '"'two plus'' and ''something to share." Something inside me says, ''Mother, let go. Never let loneliness show in your face. Step out to meet him and let your heart grow. This year you launched a new man into space."