New SWEATERS for Old Alta Williams Have you ever had a sweater that you really enjoyed wearing? When it finally developed a few small holes, did you wish that you could mend it so that the holes would not be noticeable? Well, you know the old saying "Where there's a will, there's a way." My favorite sweater is beige. When I noticed some small holes in it, I was very reluctant to part with it. This is what I did, and you can do it, too. 1. Mend the holes with matching thread. 2. Lay the sweater on a newspaper and cut pattern pieces 14 inch bigger than the sweater. 3. Buy sufficient lace to cover the sweater or to make designs to cover the holes. 4. Cut off the buttons to be re-sewed later, if you are covering the whole sweater. 5. Hand stitch the lace pattern pieces to the sweater. 6. To give your sweater a more finished look, roll the cuffs and bottom ribbing under and hand stitch. This project was such a success that I covered all of my old sweaters with various designs, using matching lace or contrasting lace. You can create many fascinating sweaters which will have that personal touch and be very different from others that you see. Some sweaters can be successfully camouflaged for as little as thirty cents. Just cut out the flower motifs from the lace and make an attractive pattern on the sweater. If you have grown tired of a sweater, try this: Make a plaid skirt that will coordinate with the sweater. Use the scrap material from the skirt to trim the sweater. Try springy flowers made from yarn to give an old sweater new interest. Put one piece of yarn the length of a pencil, slitting the eraser and end of the pencil to hold yarn. Wrap more yarn twenty times around the pencil-length yarn. And the pencil, horizontally. Take the two end pieces of pencil-length yarn and tie them tightly around the wrapped yarn in a square knot. Slip this off the pencil and it springs into a lovely flower. Trim off the excess yarn and attach it to the sweater with a contrasting French knot. Embroider some green leaves for these flowers, and presto, you have another new sweater. This do-it-yourself project really helps perk up a back-to-school wardrobe and is so easy on the budget. It brings hours of enjoyment to the creative person who can always think up new ideas for old sweaters. 756 tte pattern \) Uf" DDI lace variations 758 =) = O 3 o Q o "< = Q = = = 2) bead >- n oO o "n a SS ewe ey & << €¢ & € oA 4 ms, ' 4 38; Ny att print ed; he un be ca mera - = gio why Si L isa havanbany rayon a * "i alk y, 1 " { 4 4 7 1¢ ' bet vai aes vojitosinanoagsy ot yl ' A eis 7) CO A AQUAMITE UN 4g Aa! Sweater trimmed to match skirt slit to anchor yarn \) J | nee oe al