Gleanings From the Season of Harvest "'Lovely Growing Old'' oor lovely growing old' like an old house with a granite foundation and filled throughout with the patina of fond memories would be satisfying. There is loveliness in a face wrinkled and shadowed, in hair thinned and silvered, in hands roughened and blemished, when all are mellowed with gentleness and love coming from long service. Eyes that show suffering and forbearance, wet with tears of sympathy and understanding of the vicissitudes of life, and of the goodness of God in spite of all, are beautiful in a sense that young, sparkling eyes can never be. Shoulders stooped a little with life's storms, bodies thickened with hard work and the bearing of children are marks of a beautiful character. I have been known to say in times past, "I don't want to grow old, to show the wear of years, to be gray and wrinkled." Am I inconsistent? For I love old lines, old furniture, old houses, old laces, old silver. If I can be lovely growing old, I am sure I shall be ready for it as I see it approaching. —Caroline Eyring Miner The Hardy Ones b= us not laugh at the small, scrubby flower living precariously away from a flower garden. It has had to fight for its chance with weeds and drought. It may be small and gnarled, but it smiles brightly in a hard place. It is the hardy one, and it has seeds that may grow tall and strong and straight, bringing beauty down the generations. Such hardy ones among people were the pioneers, who came to the hard places and made them beautiful for us, their children. —Celia Luce imperishable Splendor | WALKED once in Bohemia's aged forests, through the wild-rose scented grove, through hovering leaves. I found ecarth's beauty, oh, so grand! My soul was touched by its imperishable splendor. I knelt in a prayer of reverence for this glorious bloom of spring, the handwork of him who has also enriched our hearts with song, wisdom, and undying faith. It is through life's difficulties that we receive our greatest education and are made to realize its values. In later years we can make the greatest use of this education as we live in the golden sunset of harvest time. Let us strive always to know ourselves — our gifts and our talents, however small — and to use them for the enrichment of all. —Pauline M. Bell 766 The Diligent Gardener A certain man planted a good seed, cultivated, and irrigated it. Soon it flourished and spread. The results were profuse growth in every direction. Other plants and forms of life with which it came in contact became more healthy and alive. But, in another place, a man was not particular in the choice of seed which he planted. Nor did he irrigate and weed his field. The results were smaller plants, hardly surviving in spots, and certainly not giving much beauty to plants with which they came in contact. So it is with the gospel of Jesus Christ and its effect upon our lives. By an active desire to increase knowledge and serve, our lives may become abundant. Others, too, will benefit. But by personal indifference our lives and the lives of others with whom we come in contact will be much more barren. —Colleen Layland She spends a week end with Kathy, her roommate, at the Kirk family farm and becomes interested in the family, at the hospital,