Two Groups in the Movement ig has been common of late years to look on all women's organizations or groups as part of the movement; and while this view is but natural, it is, of course, erroneous. While there exists a unity of aim in the movement, there is naturally a diversity in the method of reaching the common goal. Most groups in Great Britain are organized for professional rather than political reasons, although seeking threugh their associations the removal of 614 discriminating laws in their vocations and professions. In Canada, the United States and the Southern Americas, because of the vast size of each country, the organizations 'are formed on a geographical basis rather than on unity of thought as in Great Britain and Europe. As with all organizations, the movement breaks into right and left wings. In the geographical groupings it is but natural to find a diversity of opinions; and in the last few years matters have virtually come to a head in the two groups named "The International Alliance for Suffrage and Equal Citizenship" and the 'International Council of Women." In the past all efforts were directed towards safeguarding and promoting the peace of the world. It was believed by the offcials of certain organizations that women's efforts and duties lay in social reform, while an opposite group contended that the aims of suffrage and equal citizenship should receive the major portion of their efforts, social reform to be considered when the goal of equality had been achieved. Thus the two wings in Great Britain are called "Feminist" and "Social Reformers." In the United States the two wings stand respectively for equality and for a wide social reform program. Far-Reaching Results Certain Concerted as these efforts are throughout the world, they must be productive of far-reaching results. In some countries suffrage came easily; in others, only after a long and bitter fight, For over fifty years the struggle continued, education being the sole weapon in France, Great Britain, Canada and U. S. The action in Great Britain and the United States at last passed to the left wing, which became miliRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE tant and aggressive. The first objective of the franchise was quickly won; but in Canada and France educational methods still prevail. INCE the close of the Great War, the left wing has gained in vitality. Women's zest for the authority they tasted during the hectic days of war, lures them on in the movement. No longer timid and resigned in their desires "that something be done" in matters in which they are interested, but now active and energetic they demand that the authority to which they address themselves shall answer for its responsibility in the matter. Through the last ten years, international. Conferences of women have been held, but the active, vital, and energetic force—the left wing —has abstained from attending them, and has been content to swing into action, militantly, as the time and circumstances have demanded. At present the movement's eyes are turned towards the League of Nations, whose clause that 'All positions under or in connection with the League, including the Secretariat, shall be equally open to men and women," has been ignored, since women hold only substitute and minor positions in the League and its activities. Important posts are held exclusively by men, who predominate on committees and commissions until the lone female member feels. But a small cog in a big machine. Consequently the movement feels that in matters relating to women and children women are not treated as men's equal, and are discriminated against in international legislation in a most flagrant manner. Particularly is this true in the fields of employment, where women are now being considered as competitors. It is but fair, however, to point out that the League Com- WHAT THE WOMAN'S MOVEMENT MEANS mittee on the Traffic of Women and Children is composed of an equal number of men and women. With this exception the high posts are held by men. It is not to be marvelled at, that under the experiences which the movement has undergone in the past, the active and energetic left wing should fealously guard the victories it has achieved. No woman without the necessary qualifications shall represent their members in any deliberations; and in matters concerning woman, they fully intend that the wishes of women shall receive due consideration and be fairly valued. Since the four United States women, at the invitation of South American women, went down to Havana in 1928 to the Sixth Pan American Conference and there presented an Equal Rights Treaty, the left wing has swung to the fore. Their object in the presentation of. The Treaty failed; but from their action grew an inter-American Commission of Women to study political and civil equality of the women of the continent. Simultaneously with the American women's action, an English woman, Elizabeth Abbott, a foremost feminist of her country, was appointed as delegate to the International Labor Organization during the minimum-wage discussion in Geneva; there she represented not only En- 615 gland but several European nations, and did very valuable work. Already legal experts among women are gathering material to present before the Commission of Jurists for Codification of the International Law at the Hague in 1929. It is their object to obtain a world wide expression in the matter. They hold that nationality shall not be affected by marriage and are against the inclusion of inequality in any international code. It is clear that in Europe the sum and essence of all actions by these movements is to obtain equality; but because of various State laws, this is not realized in the United States. In all countries, however, the desire is that women shall not, because of sex, be prohibited, excluded or restricted; and that no legislation that has a sex basis shall continue to exist. Sex, it is claimed, is a private and not a public matter, and women of the movement everywhere desire further to enjoy life by exercising their rights of citizenship, and bearing its necessary burdens free from legislative sex distinctions. No longer do women in far off lands feel alone in their struggle. The years have drawn them together internationally. Now they view each other's struggles with sympathy, and gain encouragewoman is nothing but a chattel.