Woman's Legal Personality—A Century of Progress By Priscilla L. Evans URING Mother Brown's' D one hundred years her legal status changed from one of absolute submergence to one of equality and independence. Today the legal personality of American women is very nearly complete. In the last hundred years, women have risen out of ignorance, out of bondage, out of the position of being a thing in the possession of another into the position of being a legal person with completed rights and obligations. It has been often said that the way women are treated at any given period is a just measure of the civilization that prevails among the people, and if this be true, our American civilization ranks very high, for with less than two hundred years of national life, we lead the world. In our efforts for the elevation of women. And Utah stands in the forefront of the states of the Union in these efforts. He disparity in the rights and privileges of men and women grew up, in the beginning, out of property interests. "Property in its broader sense is not the physical thing which may be the subject of ownership, but is the right of dominion, possession, and power of 1"Grandmother Brown's Hundred Years," by H. C. Brown. Disposition which may be acquired over it." Ownership of property involves the obligation to use. Nobody ever received or acquired anything that carried with it a benefit that did not also carry with it an obligation. Ownership of land is of much later origin than ownership of personal property, Among the clans of the early tribes of man, ownership, privately, of land was not known. There are savages at present in existence who have no conception of landed property, and who have barely arrived at a notion of individual ownership of the objects which they personally appropriate. Certain Australians possess the objects attached to their persons, such as arms, ornaments inserted in their ears, lips and noses; or skins of beasts for clothing; human fat, wherewith to cure their rheumatism; stones laid up in baskets, woven of bark, fastened to the body of the owner. Personally appropriated by them, these objects are not taken away from them at their death, but are burned or buried with their corpses. The name of the individual was one of the first things recognized as "property." The savage never reveals -his name to a stranger; it is a precious thing of which he will make. A present to a friend; so completely is his name identified with his person that after 580 his death his tribe ceases to pronounce it. As the use of a thing constitutes the sole condition of its ownership, landed property, on its first establishment among primitive peoples, was alloted to the women. The man was charged with the defense and the procuring of food, while on the woman devolved the culinary preparation of the food, the fabrication of the clothes and household utensils, and the management of the house once it had sprung into existence. "A man," said an ancient philosopher, "hunts, fishes, fights and sits down," meaning that all besides is the business of the woman. 5 4 introduction of agriculture enhanced the separation of the sexes—the man continued to be the watrior and the hunter; he resigned to his wife the labour of the fields, consenting on occasion to assist at harvest time. Among pastoral peoples, he 'reserved to himself the care of the flocks and herds, which came to be looked upon as a nobler pursuit than agriculture. It is, in truth, the less arduous of the two. In all societies in which the matriarchal form of the family has maintained itself, we find landed property held by the women; such was the case among the Egyptians, the Nairs, and the Basques of the Pyrenees. In the time of Aristotle, two-thirds of the territory of Sparta belonged to the women. It is interesting to note, in this connection, that when the possession of landed property came to be an advantage instead of a burden, man, the physically stronger, wrested its possession from the women. When the possession of land meant something more than the responsibility and burden of cultivating it—when it meant emancipation—man exercised RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE his physical force and took it back, wholly depriving women of the ownership of it. One of the important qualities of landed property is the right to alienate it—to transfer it from one to another. This idea of continuing dominion over property—this handing down from generation to generation, to an individual instead of to the clan or tribe is a purely artificial thing. Primitive peoples knew no such thing. "The earth is like fire and water, that cannot be sold," say the Omahas. Among the Jews and Semetic peoples, there was no private property in land. "The land shall not be sold forever, for the land is mine; for ye are strangers and sojourners with me." (Leviticus XXV:23). This idea of continuing dominion over property is perhaps the one thing, in the development of property rights which has caused the greatest injustice to women. During Feudal times, when the landed property was in the hands of the feudal lords, orly those had possession of land who could render military service to the lord. This precluded women from holding property at all. S we look back one hundred years, the status of women was so different from what it is now with respect to her right to own property and her rights with respect to her home and her children that it is really difficult to appreciate how much we have advanced. During that peviod there has been a definite continuing trend towards an equal division of rights. It has been somewhat of an uphill fight. The women have carried forward the fight always—they have been on the aggressive side, and very naturally society has resisted more or less. Mankind are slow to change those forms to which they have been ac- WOMAN'S LEGAL PERSONALITY customed. The change required something more than the casual consent of people. It had to be recorded in some way, because it was a change in the community custom —in what was known as the Common Law—that body of law which had been adopted by our colonies and which is still the law, excepting where it has beer expressly changed by statute in each state. 'By the rules of the Common Law, not only in theory but in actual practice, the person and property of a wife were under the absolute control of her husband. Marriage was the act by which she ceased to have a legal existence, by which her very being became incorporated or merged into that of her husband. She was presumed by law to be under the protection and influence of her husband—to be absolutely and entirely one person with him, and she had no life in law apart from him. Having established the marriage relation, it could only be dissolved by death, or by divorce granted by Act of Parliament, or in this country, by Act of the Legislature. No absolute divorce could be granted for any acts arising after the marriage, but a separation might be decreed in case of adultery of either party. ' The husband was entitled to the control, use and enjoyment of his wife's real estate during the marriage. All personal property belonging to her vested absolutely in the husband at marriage. It was his to deal with as he pleased. He could dispose of it while living, or will it to anyone he might select, and if he died without a will, it descended to his heirs. Even the wife's wearing apparel and ornaments, known as "paraphernalia'' belonged to the husbana During his life, he had the power to sell 581 or give them away, but he could not devise them by will. A wife had no power to convey her real property, nor could she devise her personal property by will without the consent of her husband. Upon death of the husband, the wife took 1/3 of his personal estate if there were children, and 1/2 if there were no children, and she was entitled to dower or life interest in 1/3 of his real property, whether there were children or not. The right of dower has always been regarded with favor. The great English jurist, Lord (Coke, said: "There be three things highly favored in law—life, liberty and dower." The law has always guarded jealously this established right of married women. A wife's earnings, though acquired by her individual labor and in a business separate and apart from her husband belonged to him. Personal property descended to males and females in equal amounts, but the eldest son was entitled to the whole of his father's real property. The father was legally entitled to the custody of the children. The right of the mother was never recognized, it being expressly stated by Blackstone that "a mother, as such, is entitled to no power, but only to reverence and respect." The father might by | will appoint a guardian for his children after his death, though yet unborn, or might apprentice them or give them into the custody of others without the consent of the mother. The husband was the head of the family and had the legal right to establish his home or domicile in any part of the world where his interests, his tastes, his convenience or even his caprice might suggest, and it was the wife's duty to follow him. If she refused to accompany  him, no matter upon what ground, she was guilty of desertion. The husband was liable for all her debts contracted before marriage and this was true though he may have received no property with her. He 'adopted her and her circumstances together." The husband might exercise power over the person of his wife by restraining her of her Itberty in case of gross misbehavior, or by giving her moderate chastisement in the same degree that he might administer correction to his children. An early decision of one of our state courts interpreted this to mean that a man might whip his wife with a switch as large as his finger, but not larger than his thumb, without being guilty of an assault. A wife had no power to contract a legal debt, nor to bind herself by any kind of an agreement, neither could she make her husband liable for any debt or contract except for necessaries. A wife could neither sue nor be sued unless her husband was joined with her in the suit. A judgment against her was void because she was unknown to the law apart from her husband. One entered in her favor became the property of her husband. Ve legal fiction of the unity of the persons of husband and wife is the foundation upon which the great body of our law relating to married women is built. As it became apparent that the Common Law failed to satisfy the demands for justice, the strictness of its rules have been relaxed by giving them an interpretation more in harmony with advancing civilization, or they have been modified or completely changed by statute. In Utah, they have been completely changed. Our law-makers spoke early and emphatically, and so far as the property rights of the women of Utah are concerned, there is no state in the Union which has gone farther in protecting them, and few states in which women have as advantageous a position. In fact, the statutes have gone so far that the property rights of women are superior to those of men. "One of the first Articles of our State Constitution, (Art. IV, Sec. 1) reads: "The right of citizens of the State of Utah to vote and hold office shall not be denied or abridged on account of sex. Both male and female citizens of this state shall enjoy equally all civil, political and religious rights and privileges." Following the enactment of this decree of equal suffrage, an interesting argument and debate took place in the Constitutional Convention over the question of the property rights of married women. At the close of this debate, the following was adopted: (Art. XXII, Sec. 2) "The real and personal estate of every female, acquired before marriage, and all property to which she may afterwards become entitled by purchase, gift, grant, inheritance or devise, shall be and reniain the estate and property of such female, and shall not be liable for the debts, obligations or engagements of her husband, and may be conveyed, devised or bequeathed by her as if she were unmarried." Under *the statutes of Utah, a married man has no similar right. He cannot convey, devise or bequeath his property as if he were unmarried. A wife has an inchoate right in a one-third interest in the real-estate of her husband, and this cannot be alienated except by her own act. Several years ago, our Supreme Court held that for the purposes of taking advantage of our homestead law and designating a homestead, WOMAN'S LEGAL PERSONALITY either the husband or the wife was the "'head of the family." This was heralded as a great victory by the ardent supporters of ''women's rights." But an examination of our statutes will disclose that this "right" brought with it burdens and responsibilities. Since the wife and mother is a head of the family, she is responsible for their maintenance and support and can be punished for her failure in this respect equally with the husband and father. Sec. 2991, Laws of Utah, 1917, reads: "The expenses of the family and the education of the children are chargeable upon the property of both husband and wife, or of either of them, and in relation thereto, they may be sued jointly or separately." And Chap. 148, Laws of Utah, 1921, reads: "Desertion of children or failure to provide for his or her minor child or children is a felony and punishable by imprisonment in the state penitentiary. «Oe OY FO many years, the women of the nation sought to have the Federal Statutes with respect to the citizenship of married women changed, and in 1924 this was accomplished. Up to that time, the citizenship of a married woman followed that of her husband. If a citizen married an alien, she became an alien—if an alien married a citi- 583 zen, she became a citizen. Under the present statute, a woman does not lose her citizenship by marrying an alien, but can lose it only by renouncing it. Jf an alien woman marries an American citizen, she does not thereby become a citizen, but may become such only by conforming to the procedure outlined, much in the same way as a male alien becomes a citizen, with some slight advantages in the matter of time of residence. AM inclined to believe that 'American women are securing all that they consider to be their rights about as rapidly as they are prepared to exercise such rights. And in Utah, my observation is that we have our full share of "rights", and so far as property rights are concerned, our law-makers have, as I have pointed out, discriminated very definitely in favor of married women. But, after all, will not the advancement of the State and Nation be more wholesome and rapid if all citizens work to one objective, without concern as to the advantage of any group, for "The woman's cause is man's; they rise or sink Together; dwarfed or godlike, bond or. Free; If she be small, slight-natured, miserable, How shall men grow?" (Tennyson—The Princess) y FADER "i y i; oh A. Photo by Hileman.