Joseph Smith—Genius or Prophet By James L. Barker it it how do these respective organizations compare as machines? In primitive times, bishops were nominated by superior authority, but the wishes of the body of the Church were ascertained concerning those who were to minister unto them: "Owing to the exceptional authority of the Apostles, the selection of the clergy in the beginning was left almost entirely in their hands, though even then the Church's wishes were first ascertained. * * * Members of the lower clergy were selected by the bishop, information being previously sought as to the Church's feelings.'® Early in the fourth century, Athanasius says that he was elected (A. D. 326) "by a majority of our body (the bishops) and with the acclamation of all the people.' Maclean also quotes the Testament of our Lord, 1:20, the bishops "being chosen by all %the people according to the will of the Holy Ghost." This condition, however, was not to continue, the Council of Laodicea (A. D. 380) reached the decision that "the choice of those to be appointed to the priesthood shall not rest with the multitude." Thus the laity lost their privilege of voting to sustain the ministry, and, after this time, the church members secured no voice in the selection of those who were to preside over them. During the time of the Gm Dua A Manual of Church History, ar J. Maclean in Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics, Laity. Schism, the Council of Constance declared: 1. "That the Council of Constance legally assembled in the name of the Holy Ghost and constituting. A presiding council over "the militant Catholic Church, has received its authority immediately from Jesus Christ, to which authority everyone, no matter what his rank or dignity, be it even that of the Pope, is bound to obey, in all things concerning faith, etc. 2. And whosoever, of whatever rank and dignity, be it even that of the Pope, who stubbornly refuses obedience to the decisions of this Council or the decisions of any other council regularly assembled, * * * shall be subjected to a suitable penance and fittingly punished * * *" Nevertheless, the papcy was to triumph. It was forbidden by Pope Pius II to appeal from the decisions of the Pope to a general council (1459). And a bull of Leo X (1516) affirmed that "The Roman Pope has the right to call, to postpone and to dissolve all councils." And the fourth session of the Council of the Vatican, July 18, 1870, decreed: _"In agreement with the received traditions since the beginnings of Christian faith, we teach and declare to the honor of God * * * that the Roman Pope, when he speaks ex cathedra, that is in the exercise of his office as shepherd and teacher of all Christians by virtue of his high apostolic authority * * * that he then possesses infallibility through the divine support promised in Saint Peter * * * and that therefore such decisions of the Roman Pope, in and of themselves, and not first after approval of the Church, are unchangeable." It is essential to note that after the Council of Elvira officers in the priesthood were no longer submitted to the approval of the people over whom they were to pre- 592 side; after this time when unfit candidates were chosen for the ministry, the people, having lost their means of protection were unable to rid themselves of negligent. Or worldly priests; if liberty of conscience was infringed upon, they ne longer had any efficient means of protesting. The power and authority concentrated in the hands of the priesthood by the action of the Council of Elvira, was placed in the hands of the Pope by the Decree of the Council of the Vatican in 1870. In matters of morals and faith the Pope is now theoretically supreme. If he should disagree with the entire Church, he would be right and they would be wrong. Since the Council of EIvira, the clergy, and since the Council of the Vatican, the Pope—the people being without a voice in their selection and having no vote in any church matter, doctrinal or otherwise—have been unlimited in their authority. This idea of authority is correct in part. If no one had accepted him, Jesus would have been the Son of God. Had he been rejected by all, Peter would have possessed the authority bestowed upon him by Jesus and would have been the chief of all the Apostles and a prophet. On the other hand, a Supreme Pontiff, like a despotic monarch, may do what he pleases, and no one may question the rightfulness of his actions. As the wicegerent of Christ, the Pope has in times past issued bulls for the stamping out of heresy and sincere men, following the best light they had, have been burned. Ape Christian life is premised on free will, but such bulls and acts compelling the human conscience nullify free will, and make it, as it were, non-existent. They RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE strike at the fundamental condition of a religious life. Whatever machinery the Primitive Church possessed—voting to approve their bishops, etc.—that might have prevented the compelling of the human conscience, the Catholic Church has lost, and I know of no machinery that it has either invented or restored to take its place. A sharp line has been drawn between clergy and laity, and the clergy has been largely entrusted with the religious thinking of the laity, deciding what the laity shall read and how and what they read shall be interpreted. Therein, too, is a principle that is partly right: no man may change a physical law according to his fancy. A true religious principle will be true whether accepted or rejected. But with the monarchical idea, seen above, it has given rise to all kinds of compulsion. The Catholic Church has evolved nothing to safeguard human liberty, the exercise of Christian free will, and freedom of conscience. } ee had an entirely different view: Scripture was not to be interpreted by the Fathers, but the Fathers were to. Be judged by their agreement or disagreement with Scripture; Holy Scripture is its own interpreter and needs no formal explanation by Church Authority; the individual conscience is responsible to God alone in all matters of faith and life. Except distant revealed authority, these principles reject all authority, and even distant revealed authority is subject to individual interpretation. Together with the belief that the congregation should decide who shall preach, baptize, etc., these doctrines assure theoretically the most complete individualism, the purest democracy. But in safe-guarding hu- JOSEPH SMITH—GENIUS OR PROPHET man liberty, the exercise of free will, and the. Untrammelled choice of the conscience, all principle of authority is sacrificed. The development of the constitution of the Catholic Church has been consistent with the theory that the Apostles 'derived their authority direct from Him immediately," and the government of the Lutheran Church is in harmony with the theory that they derived their authority "from the people to whom they were to minister."*® One conception represents the principle of absolute authority, and the other of complete human liberty and individualism. The two principles, though antagonistic, should find their expression in all Church government. 1 ane principles were reconciled in the Primitive Church: Christ called the Apostles, the people did not call them, and the Apostles did not choose Him; however, before a bishop could act he had to be accepted by the Church over which he was to preside. If Joseph Smith is a prophet, it is because he was called of God, and the acceptance or rejection of his message in no way affects the authority of his priesthood (or that of his successors) and herein the principle of authority is operative. But Joseph Smith could not be the president of the Church without the approval of the Church over which he presided. Moreover he provided for his possible recall twice a year, because the president of the church must be sustained in conference assembled twice annually. And just as Peter presented the matter of the observance of the Jewish law to the "apostles and elders" and the "'multitude" and all these came to a decision, so under the plan re- 8See quotation, p. 523, Oct. Relief Society Magazine. 593 vealed to Joseph Smith, any decision of the Twelve Apostles concerning important doctrine is presented to the priesthood and the members of the Church for their assent.® Those to be ordained to the priesthood or to be set apart to administrative offices in the Church, bishops, presidents of stakes, etc., are nominated by their respective superior presiding officers of the Church, herein the principle of authority finds its expression. Before any of these officers enter into the activities of their office, the people over whom they are to preside, vote to accept or reject them. Further, the people are given opportunity, four times a year, either to sustain them or to recall them; and twice a year they vote to ratify or reject new nominees and to recall or sustain the highest officers in the Church. Herein the people exercise the principle of human liberty and democracy, always carefully safeguarded in the Scriptures. HE Council of Elvira, in deciding that the choice should not be left to the "multitude," had in mind, perhaps, possible or actual conflict in the decisions of the superior nominating clergy and the laity. Uf such a conflict did not arise in the Council of Jerusalem and if it has been exceedingly rare in the Church today, it is because a means of unification has been present. "Another authority, it is true, seems to hover over the community of the disciples of Christ: it is the authority of the Holy Ghost. Nothing is more remarkable than the frequency with which the Holy Ghost is mentioned in the acts of the Apostles. Everything that is done of importance in the new Church is attributed to the Spirit." *Acts 15:6, 12, 22, 594 "The name of the Holy Ghost is one of the first words found on the lips of Peter at the moment when he speaks for the first time before the Disciples assembled to replace Judas. It is from the Holy Ghost that the Apostles receive the Gift of Tongues. It is to the influence of the Holy Ghost that Peter attributes all the super-natural manifestations of the Day of Pentecost. The Apostle will reproach Ananias for having lied to the Holy Ghost and Saphira for having tempted the Spirit of the Lord. The first martyr, Stephen, will be characterized as a man full of faith and the Holy Ghost; the Spirit of the Holy Ghost will speak by his mouth. Later we shall see the Holy Ghost setting apart Paul and Barnabas, and preventing Paul and Silas from passing into Asia. This Spirit is moreover represented as a Spirit of peace, of beauty and of joy." (Acts 13:56.) "Under its influence and under the paternal authority of the chief of the Apostles, the growing community is organized and develops like the most united of families.''?° When the Apostles, by thought and discussion, had arrived at a decision, they were entitled to the inspiration of the Holy Ghost, confirming or disapproving their conclusions, and the multitude was entitled to the same inspiration by the same Spirit in voting their approval or disapproval, and all were in full possession of freedom of the will as to whether they would act in harmony with the will of God, as revealed by the Holy Ghost. However, if "the era of public revelation (was) closed with the death of the last one among them (the 'Apostles)," there is no longer any unfailing source of truth to serve as 10Mourret: pp. 37-38. Les Origines Chretiennes. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE a principle of unity in the decisions of priesthood and laity, and to harmonize the exercise of the principles of authority and human liberty. 'ig Joseph Smith taught, not that the head of the Church would be infallible, but that inasmuch as he followed the inspiration of the Lord, he would make no mistake; that the Council of the Twelve would be entitled to the same inspiration of the Holy Ghost as the President and his Counselors and would be called upon to ratify or reject nominations and revelations given to the president; 'that the priesthood in general would be called upon to do the same thing; and the masses of the people be called upon to vote in harmony with the inspiration of the same Spirit—if he taught this, knowing that no such spirit was to be given and expecting unanimous action without it; then he was guilty of a great absurdity; but, if he taught it, knowing that the Spirit would be given, he was reestablishing an absolutely essential element in the government of the Church, without which there would have been no _ Primitive Church, that is, there would have been no Divine Church; and if the Church plan of Church government, guided by the Holy Ghost, has worked satisfactorily for a hundred years in our time, with unity of thought and feeling and action, it is because Joseph Smith did not "invent" it, or obtain the idea through scholarship, but received it by revelation and authority. SOME Protestant churches and at times some Catholics have made commendable efforts to seek inspiration and to follow the inner guide—Quakers and Methodists— have been among the most suc- JOSEPH SMITH—GENIUS OR PROPHET cessful.1_ The Catholic Church has evolved the doctrine of the infallibility of the Pope, but whether this infallibility in matters of doctrine and faith be brought about by revelation or by some other means it is shared by him alone. Further, Joseph Smith declared: "That the rights of the priesthood are inseparably connected with the powers of fheaven, and that the powers' of heaven cannot be controlled nor handled only upon the principles of righteousness. That they may be conferred upon us it is true; but when we undertake to cover our sins, or to gratify our pride, our vain ambition, or to exercise control or dominion or compulsion upon the souls of the children of men, in any degree of unrighteousness, behold the heavens withdraw themselves; the Spirit of the Lord is grieved; and when it is withdrawn, Amen to the priesthood or the authority of that man. * * * No power or influence can or ought to be maintained by virtue of the priesthood, only by persuasion. By long-suffering, by gentleness and meekness, and by love un feigned; by kindness and pure knowledge, which shall greatly enlarge the soul without hypocrisy, and without guile—reproving betimes with sharpness, when moved upon by the Holy Ghost; and then 11A direct experience of truth came to Fox through these "openings" as he called them. "I heard a voice which said, there is one even Jesus Christ, which can speak to thy condition; and when I heard it, my Heart did leap for joy. * oe 9 John Wesley: "I felt my heart strangely warmed, I felt I did trust in Christ, Christ alone, for salvation; and an assurance was given me that he had taken away my sins, even mine, and saved me from the law of sin and death." (While list¢ning to the reading of Luther's preface to the epistle to the Romans.) Encyclopedia of Religion and Ethics. 595 showing forth afterwards an increase of love toward him whom thou hast reproved, lest he esteem thee to be his enemy; that he may know that thy faithfulness is stronger than the cords of death." (ela SMITH'S plan also pro- -J vides the means of bringing an Apostle, or a president of the Church to trial before the Church courts, and Apostles have been tried and excommunicated. The plan he established provides for the harmonious operation of the contradictory but necessarily co-existing principles of authority and human liberty in Church government; and the plan has functioned in all weathers, quiet and rough, for a hundred years! The Church government installed by Joseph Smith has all the merits of a benevolent despotism and of a complete democracy, and none of their defects. Did he invent it? Did he restore it by scholarship? Obviously he could have done neither. Then, he received it as a revelation from the Lord. Certainly, less perfect plans cannot be from the Almighty, because man could not do better than an omniscient deity. Te change from a self-supnorting to a paid ministry has been fraught with a grave consequence. The anger of the Savior was aroused by the hypocrisy of the Pharisees and Sadducees and he instituted an unpaid ministry to lessen the evil. In the early Christian Church, "many of the clergy supported themselves on their patrimony, or followed the example of St. Paul (Acts 20:34) in working for their living, either in the fields, or at a trade or otherwise. Some bishops, indeed, gave so much time to their worldly business that Cyprian (De lapsis, 4) was led to complain, and 596 the Council of Elvira (circa 300, can. 19) to decree a prohibition." In the following period, "The poorer clergy mostly continued to earn their living by manual labor. In the Statuta ecclesiae antiqua, a collection of canons which purports to have been drawn up by the Fourth Council of Carthage (398), but which was really composed in the fifth century in Gaul or Spain, home-work or agriculture is actually made obligatory on the clergy. On the other hand, commercial undertaking which Constantine had promoted by abolishing the duties to be paid, were forbidden the clergy by Valentinian III, under pain of the loss of clerical privileges. In spite of this, the wealth of the Church grew steadily, especially on account of the right to receive legacies which had been granted her by Constantine. According to Roman practice, the revenues 'were divided into four portions, of which one went to the bishop, another to the rest of the clergy, whilst the other two were devoted to the maintenance of ecclesiastical buildings and the relief of the poor. In Spain three portions only were made, there being no special provision for the poor, and an identical custom probably prevailed in Gaul.''8 To the professions of the rich young man that he had kept all the Commandments, including, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself," Jesus replied: "If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell what thou hast, and give to the poor * * * and, come and follow me," thus testing his sincerity. With a paid ministry, there is little to test sincerity. A Catholic or a Protestant may be a candidate 12Funk, A Manual of Church History, vol. 1, p. 57. 12Funk, A Manual of Church fistory, vol. 1, pp. 175-176. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE for the ministry, prepare for it, and aspire to the highest honors in the gift of the church. Any priest or pastor may perform his ministry from sincere devotion to Christ, or, on the other hand, theoretically, he may do it as a means of livelihood, just as his brother, to gain a living, may become a lawyer. Younger sons have often been made bishops for purely worldly reasons. The Catholic and the Protestant Churches have lost the safeguard of sincerity established by the Savior, and have found perhaps nothing to take its place. A CHURCH should provide tests of the sincerity of those who teach moral and spiritual truth. In the Church founded by Joseph Smith, the sincerity of the members is tested by the unpopularity of the church and by tithing; and the work of the priesthood, with the exception of a few, is entirely unpaid; the sincerity of all those who receive some remuneration has been previously tested over a period of years by the payment of tithing and unpaid service in the priesthood, at home or in the missionary field. Further, why be insincere? It is impossible for any one to be a candidate for an office to seek advancement, and, if advancement comes, it brings only opportunity for more unpaid service. Thus, by removing all selfish main-springs of action—desire for gain, ambition —sincerity has been safe-guarded on every side. Without sincerity, religion is a vain word; but outside the Church, no religious organization has any machinery for adequately testing it. OHAMMEDANISM has been characterized as the religion of submission, and, Christianity, as the religion of collaboration with JOSEPH SMITH—GENIUS OR PROPHET God. The greater the number actually engaged in active collaboration in the work of the Church, the more typically Christian, the Church. The historical Churches have drawn a rather sharp line between clergy and laity, and the limited number of the clergy alone are entrusted with the work of the Church.** In the Church plan given through Joseph Smith, all men of good will are engaged in the service of the Church. For instance, in the tenth ward in Salt Lake City, there are about five hundred active Church officers, and every member of the Church in any ward has the opportunity all the time of being in training for service or actually serving in an organized way.® HE most noted men of science are usually known for but one or at most two or three great discoveries. In the evolution of human institutions any individual man has usually played but a very small part. The Constitution of the United States, for example, is the work of a convention, based on all preceding theoretical discussions and English and American governmental institutions. In developing these institutions the contribution of any individual, or of any brief period of 14There is some tendency recently in various churches to enlist the services of a limited number of the laity. 15The effectiveness of the Church organization in realizing the love of God and man, rendering mutual aid and dispensing justice, and taking care of the poor, belongs in this discussion, but will - not be treated here. Boy time, is either almost insensible, or brought about in part by the force of circumstances, such as the calling of two burghers by Simon de Montfert from each town, thus laying the foundation for government by representation in the House of Commons. Civil institutions have been of slow growth and no plan of government, civil or religious, made out of whole cloth by any individual has rarely or ever possessed great merit or even the elements of success. The strength of the church organization given by Joseph Smith is so extraordinary and so unprecedented that it is well-nigh inexplicable. It harmonizes what is known concerning the organization of the Primitive Church, reconciling the contradictory principle of authority and the liberty of the individual, and even illuminating details of practice in the Primitive Church, such as calling an Apostle an elder, such as an elder presiding over a church, etc.; it guarantees to the greatest degree known, the sincerity of its members and its officers. It enlists the maximum number in the service of the church, and like the Primitive Church, secures unity through the direction of the Holy Ghost. More plausible than the as- _sumption that Joseph Smith invented the organization or that he restored it as the result of his own scholarship or the scholarship of others, is the acceptance of his testimony that it was restored and revealed from Heaven. He had not only " a strong mind," but was a Prophet of the Lord.