11 EDITORIAL The Swing of the Pendulum ACK and forth swings the pendulum from one extreme to the other and in between the extremes is the happy mean, Thus history repeats itself again and again. For ages women were held down. They had no rights. They could be treated inhumanly and men were sustained before the law in brutality and injustice. Philosophers debated whether or not women have souls. Euripides reflected Greek sentiment when he had Iphigenia say to Achilles, "Better a thousand women should perish than one man cease to see the light." The Romans thought that woman had lived well who had kept herself well concealed. Buddhism teaches that woman's only hope of heaven is that she may be reincarnated as a man. Confucius affirmed that ten daughters do not equal the value of one son. The Brahmin woman is forbidden to read the scriptures or to offer prayer in her own right. The Moslem prays, "O God, I thank thee that thou hast not made me a woman," and well 'he may since he considers her as flesh without a soul. HRISTIANITY of all the great religions has proven the salvation of women. The Christ raised woman to be equal with man. But his followers were not big enough to walk where he led, and so the early church accepted the old idea regarding women and added the thought that woman was subject by order of God's will and since she had brought sin into the world she should be willing to spend her time in penitence and in obedience to the more virtuous sex. EDITORIAL For centuries civil law, church dogma, traditional custom combined to enforce rigidly the belief that males possessed the inalienable right to govern the home, the church and the state and that females owed to men the duty of obedience and submission. At the beginning of 1800 the civil and legal status of women was practically the same as it had been for several preceding centuries. Great Britain and the United States were under the Common Law, which considered the husband and wife to be one, and the man was the one. Few occupations were open to women and it was thought disgraceful for those in the upper or middle classes to earn money. The unmarried women of these classes, called "old maids," were dependents in the homes of their nearest male relatives. Even when they had property they were pitied as never having had a chance and regarded as derelicts. The church, with but few exceptions, did not give women the right to either sing, speak, pray, or vote in church assemblies. It was considered improper for a woman to be seen on a business street without being accompanied by a male or to go to. A bank to transact business unattended. Hotels would not accept a woman as a guest Uunless a man was with her. There were no high schools for girls and no college admitted women. The opposition to learned women was strong, the most hostile opponents, strange to say, being ministers, writers and scholars. They considered women mentally inferior and thought the poor had no need of instruction. "It is not seemly," they said, "for many reasons that a woman should study and know so many things because forsooth serious studies do not comport with a woman's sex.' 621 Lord Chesterfield thus characterized women: "Women are only children of a larger growth; they have an entertaining tattle, sometimes wit; but, for solid reasoning, good sense, I never in my life knew one who had it or who reasoned or acted consequentially for twenty-four hours together. * * * * A man of sense only trifles with them, flatters them as he does a sprightly forward child; but he neither consults them about nor trusts them with serious matters, though he often makes them believe he does both which is the thing in the world which they are proud of; for they love mightily to be dabbling in business, which by the way, they always spoil, and being distrustful that men in general look upon them in a trifling light, they almost adore that man who talks to them seriously and seems to consult and trust them." Rousseau's philosophy still held at the beginning of the nineteenth century— "The education of women should always be relative to that of man. To please us, to be useful to us, to make us love and esteem them, to educate us when young, to take care of us when grown up, to advise us, to console us, to render our lives easy and agreeable; these are the duties of women at all times and what they should be taught from their infancy." Then came the dawning of a brighter day for women. A new attitude toward women is shown in these words, uttered by Joseph Smith in 1842, when he organized the Relief Society: "This charitable society is according to your natures, it is natural for females to have feelings of charity. You are now placed in a situation where you can act according to these sympathies which God has planted in your bosoms. If you live up to these principles how great and glorious! If you live up to your privileges the angels cannot be restrained from being your associates. * * * This Society is not only to relieve the poor but to save souls. * * * And I now turn the key to you in the name of God, and this Society shall rejoice, and knowledge and intelligence shall flow down from this time. This is the beginning of better days to this Society." 622 The officials of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints have always given women an important part in Church activities and they have voted in church elections. From 1842 until now women have steadily moved forward until today they have equal educational opportunities with men, before the law they are often given greater advantages and consideration; they vote; and they have gained the opportunity to enter almost any gainful employment and are in some cases receiving equal pay for equal work, Some have been unmindful of the opportunities that are theirs and have let golden chances for service' slip by. Many women have become intoxicated in the rush of rights and privileges accorded to them and have lost their balance. They affirm that they have a right to do whatever men do. He smokes, so will they. He drinks, they join him in his Bacchus' orgies. He gambles, they out-do him in the games of chance. They scoff at religion and ridicule those who hold to old standards. Homes and children are to them passe. Public life, bright lights, the gay whirl—these lure them from home and quietude and peace and culture.. Such women have made sorry spectacles of themselves. Instead of being refining influences they have become coarser and louder than men. Thinkers are asking, Whither? What are we coming to? What will be the result if we continue aS we are going? F ORTUNATELY the pendulum has swung to the extreme and must now begin its return. There is a reaction against the lengths to which many women have gone. The "ultra-modern" tendencies are RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE giving place to virtuous and respectable and sane ones. But through the years of their emancipation the majority of women have kept their equilibrium. They have realized that God made men and women complements to each other, 'not like to like but like in difference,' one supplying what the other lacked. They have kept in mind that wifehood and motherhood today as always offer to women their highest opportunity for service, their greatest avenues for development, their greatest sources of joy. Because of the development that has come through the greater freedom women have enjoyed during the last few years they are better wives, more congenial help meets more understanding companions. And in the years to come we hope to see men and women enter into each others' strivings and problems with more sympathetic interest and understanding for: "The evolution of the race will be complete only when men and women shall be associated in perfect unity of purpose, and shall in fullest sympathy colaborate for the attainment of the highest and the best." Then will Tennyson's vision become reality: "The man be more of woman, she of man; He gain in sweetness and in moral height, Nor lose the wrestling thews that throw the world; She mental breadth, nor fail in childward care, Nor lose the childlike in the larger mind, Till at the last she set herself to man, Like perfect music unto noble words; And so these twain, upon the skirts of Time, Sit side by side, full-summ'd in all their powers, Dispensing harvest, sowing the to-be, Self-reverent each and reverencing each, Distinct in indvidualities, But like each other even as those who love. Then comes the statelier Eden back to men; EDITORIAL Then reign the world's great bridals, chaste, and calm; 623 Then springs the crowning race of humankind." Are We Grateful? OVEMBER, bringing to us a special day for thanksgiving, makes us pause to consider how © many things we have to be thankful for and arouses in our minds the question, Are we grateful? Are we satisfied by merely thanking our Father in words for his bounties to us or do we ponder as did one of old and ask, "What shall I render unto the Lord for all His goodness unto me?" If we do we realize that the most acceptable gratitude is shown in service. 'Words of thanks are good, deeds of thanks are better. 'Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my little ones, Ye have done it unto me,' said the Master, and as a mark of their love for him he urged, "Feed my sheep." Are we grateful for life? If so, then we will endeavor to understand its purpose and take advantage of the possibilities it offers to make it richer, fuller and more purposeful. Do we thrill at the thought of eternal progression? Then will we eagerly learn and seize each opportunity offered for development. Are we grateful for the Gospel of Jesus Christ? Then will we live it and bask in its liberty, poise, vision, and in our own lives realize its enlarging and emancipating powers. Are we grateful for America and what it stands for? Then will we be loyal to its laws. Do we appreciate our homes in this favored land? If so, we will keep them clean, orderly, fit abiding places for peace and harmony and good will. Are we grateful for food and clothing? If so, we will be careful, not extravagant; saving, not wasteful. Do we value our friends? If we do, we will so treat them that the bond of love shall grow stronger. Do we appreciate books to read, beautiful things to see, elevating words to hear? If so, we will read and look and listen in such a way that culture will come to us. Do we appreciate health? If so. We will live the laws of health and thus continuing to enjoy vigor of body and clearness of mind. Night By Weston N. Nordgran Dusk darkens down; scends; Small breezes rest. * * * And all is peace! Kk ox OK x swift night deSilently on high, the heavens Wake the light within the stars— And the Milky Way is spangled With soft shifting lights and bars! There is something very mystic In the atmosphere tonight— And I feel that God is near me, On His evenings earthly flight!