The Franchise Its Accomplishments After One Hundred Years By Annie Wells Cannon O stand on the mountain of achievement and look back through the long period of struggle where, always, even through the clouds of disappointment a bright light beckoned the onward way, is indeed a satisfaction and a joy. It was Victor Hugo who said in the early part of the 19th Century "This is the woman's century," yet the century had progressed nearly 30 years before the founding and opening of Oberlin College, when the first real step was taken for the higher education of woman. From Oberlin graduated Lucy Stone whose epic speech that the married woman's epitaph was that she was the relict of John Smith or some other man who had owned her, caused the conversion of Susan B. Anthony, the great leader in the Suffrage cause, who forthwith decided to be no man's "relict"—but to serve womankind in the cause of equal rights. Even prior to this woman suffrage had permeated the old Whig party and in Illinois in 1836 young Abraham Lincoln, the greatest of emancipators, said—"I go for all sharing the privileges of the government, who assist in bearing its burdens, consequently I go for admitting all whites-to the fight of suffrage, who pay taxes or bear arms by no means excluding females." ys we are looking backward it is well to remember that all along the centuries there have been individual women who have been in the lime light of public service; distinguished for their courage, their intellectuality and their genius; women who by right of birth have inherited sovereignty, and proven great leadership; women who, by virtue of unusual talents have names inscribed on history's pages. The fact remains, however, that concerted action for the equality of the sexes and attainment of all the privileges that suffrage might bring, was scarcely begun until the anti-slavery agitation preceding the Civil War. The subject of Woman's Suffrage was a war for equal rights, waged not with sword and cannon, heralded not with fife and drum and marching cohorts, but a war of education, hence all the longer, though in the first years almost as bitter, costing many heart-aches and much sacrifice on the part of its early advocates. While today it may seem amusing to recall the story of Lucretia Mott and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, when in 1840, together with six other women delegates, they were not admitted to have seats in the anti-slave convention in London, but finally, after much deliberation, were permitted to sit behind a drawn curtain and listen to the arguments of the men, at the time it was no light matter, but an incident of the greatest injustice, which incensed the women delegates to action for their own freedom as well as that of the negro. From this incident arose the call for the first suffrage meeting at Seneca Falls, New York, called by some half dozen women led by Lucretia Mott and Mrs. Stanton. THe sweet little Quakeress, Mrs. Mott, would have been satis- THE FRANCHISE fied simply to advocate rights of education, of property, of possession of children and inheritance. Not so Mrs. Stanton; she knew that suffrage was the fundamental right out of which all others should necessarily flow, and she stood for her declaration of rights, which was none other than The Declaration of Independence, claiming that the women had the same grievances and exactly the same number, 18, against the powers that be—the men—that our fathers had against King George. On this platform and with this resolution, passed at the Seneca Falls convention in 1848 the women of the country have stood and fought their "Cause" throughout the long years. The enthusiasm over the success of the convention was not followed as the women interested had hoped by any immediate successes or advantage for women, but on the contrary there was awakened a spirit of bitterness, ridicule, and opposition. The press from Maine to Louisana and across the western country made the women advocates of equal rights their chief target and caricatured and libelled them in every way. AN times prehaps somewhat disheartened, but never disarmed, these courageous women carried on. The leading advocates of equal rights were women of exceptional intellectual qualities, women of high ideals, fine education and _ social standing. They realized that woman was the great "unpaid laborer" of the world with no rights until she obtained the right of suffrage. It was a long step from 1848 to 1880, but during that period marvellous changes had taken place in the status of women's affairs. Year after 609 year the workers in the cause in the different states had besought legislative assemblies to amend, annul or enact laws for the betterment of women and children. The old Common Law which had so long been in force in this country and which gave all claims of property and children to the man gradually passed from the statute books. The state of New York was the first in the world that gave to married women the rights of property; other states followed, civil rights by degrees were granted, schools and colleges began to open doors with equal privileges to girls and boys. Women began to enter industry. Here another phase of the question of equality presented itseli—equal pay for equal work, a question yet not entirely satisfactory, nor just to the woman worker, though much improved. When the organized struggle began there were no opportunities for women in education or employment, save the village school and factory. _ Now every state university has coeducation and the college bred girl is as often met as the college bred man: every avenue of industry, every profession is opened to her. It is no longer a question of sex, but a question of efficiency and attainment. IWomen may well look back with pride on the names of women, who under the disadvantages of the past, dared to express themselves along the different lines of achievement. These were the great individual forces leading toward the same general result. Such women as George Sand, Madam de Stael, George Eliot, Charlotte Bronte, Maragaret Fuller, Mrs. Hemans, Elizabeth Barrett Browning, Harriet Hosmer, Rosa Bonheur, Maria Mitchell, Caroline Herschell, Florence Nightingale and Clara Barton, but to the 610 great pioneer suffrage women led by Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, May Wright Sewell, Matilda Jocelyn Gage, and their followers the concerted action was carried through to the victory of the passing of the 19th Amendment, which opened wide the doors for woman's advancement along every line of thought. Education untrammelled has made the world richer in science, literature, art, and those things that make for happiness. Note for instance the change in attitude when the first medical botany was given to the world by Elizabeth Blackwell, a woman physician, her male compeers had her cast into jail for debt. Now in this century the whole world applauded Madam Curie for her discovery and appliance of radium and gave her gifts to enable her to continue her research work. S° it is along every line of endeavor, woman has advanced from a toy in a Turkish harem, from a drudge in the German fields, from a purely social asset in the world of fashion, from a timid and frightened dependent, to an individual personality. RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE In social and political science she has attained fine leadership where such names as Jane Addams, Julia Lathrop, Carrie Chapman Catt, claim instant recognition. In the field of art, science, literature, music, the drama, the professions, the courts of justice, legislative halls, athletics, the press, aeronautics are countless names of women that equal, if they do not excel their brother man. That woman today thus tests her endurance, her ingenuity, her attainments on a platform of equality is no reason for thinking that she is less womanly, nor feeling that the home and motherhood will become less her desire and chief delight. With this broader outlook and finer opportunity, will there not be a more comprehensive understanding of the obligations and duties of life. Because there is more justice it need not follow that man is less chivalrous nor woman more masculine, but rather there becomes a finer perception of the qualities of mind and heart wherein all mankind join hands for good fellowship and a better world. Who? Hers a Martha's hand to serve Hers a Mary's heart to love Hers to gild the clouds of gloom Hers to build beyond the tomb. —G. H. Brimhall.* *These lines were suggested while attending the funeral of the late W. A. Morton and listening to the splendid eulogy given the wonderful wife. Since this verse has general application to the women whose name is "Legion" in the world, we are pleased to present it to our readers.