The work was conducted during the summer weeks by Claire Stewart Boyer, and was arranged to meet the needs of the women in Relief Society work, particularly the officers and class leaders. The aim of the course was to assist members in conducting meetings with dispatch and giving lessons respectively, and in preparing and delivering every type of speech given in Church meetings, from the formal announcement to the finished address. The teacher was particularly well pleased with the result accomplished by the class members. The women are certainly to be congratulated for entertaining such worthy ambitions and conducting the project with such enthusiasm and persistence. | Sa is not the only form of activity which is flourishing in this enterprising Stake. The 10th Ward Relief Society was responsible for the presentation of two very clever little plays written especially for the ocasion by the class leaders —the literary play, writter by Sister Ella M. Ipson, and a social service play by Mrs. Chloe H. Clegg. There were 34 participants in the two plays which offered a most delightful evening's entertainment. Great success both financially and socially. Many new members for the organization were recruited and it was also a most excellent way of putting the work before the people of the ward. The plays were under It was a the direction of Sister Ethel S. Anderson and Sister Aliceile Higgs. Bannock Stake. VERY | successful visiting teacher's convention was held in Grace, Idaho, on August 12th. There were 91 officers and teachers present. Each of the wards gave certain parts on the program. These consisted of talks, papers, musical selections and a demonstration of the correct and incorrect way of teaching. The Stake President was in attendance; also the Advisory High Council and some of the Bishops. The house was decorated with cut flowers, and refreshments were served following the program. Everyone was enthusiastic in making the event a success. The summer meetings throughout Bannock Stake have been very successful in most of the wards. The department meetings have been well attended. There is much enthusiasm over the literary, as well as the social service work. North Sanpete Stake: DR HE North Sanpete Stake Relief Society sent in a most excellent outline, headed (by the following resolution: That we resolve that through organization, dependability, and true cooperation we aim to hold twelve Work and Business Meetings that will bring more tangible results than ever before. Organization: I. Second counselor in charge of work, assisted by supervisors of— A. Quilts. B. Rugs. C. Darning. D. Needle Work. 618 E. Plain Sewing (Counselor may be in charge). F. Renovation. II. The supervisors should have work at each meeting and work in their respective groups with all materials necessary for their progress. A. The projects begun in one meeting if not finished, should be carried over and finished at the next meeting. B. We recommend that individuals work in the same group each suceeding meeting, unless for some good reason they desire to make a change and consult the Supervisor. III. Suggestive order or program of meeting. Refer to recommendations from the General Board— page 3. IV. Source of work and importance and responsibility of the work meeting. Refer to instructions of the General Board, pages 1 and 2. V. The Ward Work Committee should meet with the executive group during Sept. To outline the year's program of Work Meetings. A. A meeting of the committee should be held on Wednesday after the regular Work and Business Meeting to plan the next meeting's work, B. A second meeting of the committee should be held on Wednesday following the Theology Meeting to check up on all details and have everything in perfect readiness previous to the regular work and Business Meeting on the second Tuesday of the month. VI. Suggestions given from General Board, April, 1930. A. Every member of the Relief Society should be willing to contribute each year one or two articles either new or remodeled to the organization for those in need. B. As long as a Relief Society RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE exists in our wards no child should go to school improperly dressed or freeze during the winter for lack of bedding. Old articles might be donated and with preparation by the committee before meeting be a part of the Work meeting activity. C. Suggested list of articles: Bloomers, underwear, aprons, night clothes, dresses, coats, caps, trousers, waists, shirts, towels, table cloths, napkins, pillowslips, sheets, wash cloths, baby clothes, blankets, house dresses, any articles used in the home. D. Discourage public showers for the expectant mother; help her in a quiet way. The saying: "Let not thy right hand knew what the left hand doeth," is always the policy of the Relief Society. E. Use demonstrations where trained workers come into the community or where high school classes can be invited to give instructions in household arts—decorations, sewing, or cooking. F. If the work supervisor thinks her job a difficult one or too big a job, give her something else to do. The interest of the work meeting is measured by the degree of interest the leader puts into her work.. G. Have everything planned so there is no delay in work and varieties of work supervised by real live workers with ample material to keep everybody busy. VII. Suggestive Special Meetings for the year: Meeting for December— Books and gifts for children.. Christmas candies that children can make. Special Christmas foods. Ref. 1928-29 outline. Meeting for March— Planting and Beautification. Porch boxes, seeds, shrubs, bulbs, etc. NOTES FROM THE FIELD This meeting is not too early if any good is to be derived. Meeting for May— Making of paper flowers or suggestion for Memorial Day— planting, clean-up, etc. Meeting for August— Orange sale, Bazaar, demonstration-of work done, etc. Cooperate with other organizations, the Civic League, the Primary, and make the day a real. Ward entertainment day. It has been said—'"The poor are always with us" and again, ""Where there is no vision the people perish." Let us care for the needy as only Relief Society officers can and pride themselves on so doing. May we see the problems, anticipate the needs and raise the temporal welfare, the spiritual attitude and bring just a little more sunshine and happiness into this wonderful world of ours. Hyrum Stake: HE officers and teachers of the Hyrum Stake Relief Society, 619 about 300 in number, enjoyed another of their annual social gatherings; the Relief Society Stake Board entertaining, Thursday, August 21st, 1930, in the Third Ward Recreational Hall. A most excellent program was given. President Lola L. Christensen presided, and Sister Winnie Clawson had charge of the program. Work done by the Relief Society sisters of the different wards in their Work and Business Meetings during the past year made a most attractive display. Delicious refreshments were served and in these the color scheme of red and white was carried out. A bouquet of flowers was presented to the following sisters: The oldest Relief Society sister present, the mother having the largest family, all former Stake Board members, the Ward President who had been in service the greatest number of years, and the oldest visiting ward teacher. It was in all a most delightful entertainment. Photo by Hileman. WATERTON LAKE, GLACIER NATIONAL PARK THE RELIEF SOCIETY OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS Motto—Charity Never Faitleth THE  RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE Mary Connetty KIMBALL - - - Louise Y. Rosison Amy Brown Lyman Magazine entered as second-class matter at the Post Office, Salt Lake City, Utah VoL. XVII NOVEMBER, 1930 No.