The Rapids By Elsie C. Carroll LAIRE'S first reaction to Greataunt Diantha's prim little note was pleasant. Simultaneously with her recognition of the wavering signature, had rushed memories of sedate beds of bachelor buttons and marigolds against the white frame farmhouse, cackling hen, lowing cows, fresh-baked salt-rising bread, golden squares of comb-honey, and a hundred other things that had made her childhood visits to Aunt Diantha's treasured patches of purple. But swiftly upon the heels of this first reaction came another—not so pleasant. What would she, with her work and all her civic and social obligations, and above all with that strange, intangible gulf widening between herself and Phil—what would she do with Aunt Diantha as a guest? Aunt Diantha was of the old school. Being past eighty she could not be expected to understand or sympathize with the work of a modern woman. Furthermore, she was alert and penetrating. She would be'sure to sense that Claire's matrimonial barque was not sailing upon perfectly smooth waters, and Claire could not bear the thought of having this fact broadcast among her relatives and friends. Her quandry was interrupted by her ten-year old daughter Angela who burst into the room. "Mother, may I go over to Monna's?" "But, Angela, you were over there all morning, weren't you? When I 'phoned from the studio to remind you of your dancing lesson, Nellie said you were over to Blake's." The child's face fell. "You don't want to live over there do you?" "Oh, but Mother, you see how cute the twins Harold and Flossie too. Monna and I play we are the mothers. I have Flossie and one of the twins and she has Harold and the other and we—" "Well it seems to me that Mrs. Blake has enough children of her own without you as an extra one all the time." "But I help Monna tend them— and it's the most fun—and it's too lonesome here with nothing to play with—but—" "Well, Angela, I like that! Nothing to play with! There isn't a little girl of our acquaintance with more ought to are, and "But Mother—I mean—well, it's so much more fun to play with the babies. They're the cunningest things. You should have seen the twins this morning. Frankie—" "You can't go just now. You must help me get the guest room ready. We are going to have company, and Nellie has all she can do getting things finished up for her vacation." "Oh, goody! Whose carmen "Great Aunt Diantha from down in Virginia. She is coming to a convention of the daughters of the Civil War and will stay and visit us afterwards." "Oh, goody, goody! You've told me about her house with all the good things to eat and the eggs to hunt and the funny quilts made out of everybody's clothes." AAT DIANTHA came Wednesday evening. The conven- THE RAPIDS tion started the next day. To Claire's surprise, when she had broken the news of their guest to Phil he had seemed pleased. "She's that brisk little black-eyed woman who gave us the encyclopedia for a wedding present, isn't she?" He even offered to go to the station to meet her when Claire lamented that she'd have to get Jake Baxter to go, as the meeting of the Civic League would not be over by seven o'clock. "Couldn't you cut your meeting this once?" Phil had asked with the note of irritation that marked his attitude toward so many of Claire's activities of late. "Not this one," she had replied. "T'm to make my report on the survey we have been making of the opportunities for women in the various businesses and professions of today." "Then I'll meet her," he had said with decision. "It wouldn't be civil to let that poor old lady who has scarcely been in a big city in her life be met at the station by no one but a strange kid—and as reckless a driver as Jake Baxter." HEN (Claire returned from her meeting, Aunt Diantha was there. Phil had lighted: the fire in the living room grate and he and the old lady were seated cozily before it. Claire felt a surge of gratitude. When he could be such a dear, why was he continually making her feel uncomfortable by his lack of appreciation of her work and the things he was interested in. "Lawsy me, Clary, how young and pretty you look," Aunt Diantha had greeted Claire. "It doesn't seem posible that you are thirtyfive years old, and as Philip has been telling me, that you have a half grown girl of your own. I marvel 599 at the way you girls of this age keep your youth when you are so busy at so many things." "Perhaps that is the secret," Claire suggested. "We have so many more things to be interested in than our mothers and grandmothers had." "Mebbe so, mebbe so," the little woman conceded, her dark eyes searching the face of the younger woman critically. "But sometimes I wonder—" What she wondered was left for the time being as at that moment Angela burst like a young whirlwind into the room. *"OQ—Mother—Monna's mamma has a new baby. I don't see why we—" Seeing their visitor she stopped. "Angela," said Claire, "this is Aunt Diantha Goodrich. Mother has told you about the good times she used to have at her home." "O, that is where you used to make butter and cheese and hunt eggs and sew quilts, wasn't it?" "Yes," laughed Claire, "and ate salt-rising bread and home-cured ham and fresh comb-honey." "Mebbe this little girl would like some of Aunty's home-made butter and comb-honey for her supper. I brought a jar of each along," said Aunt Diantha briskly. "Let's have supper right now," pleaded Angela. JNT DIANTHA had been with the Parker's a week. Claire had arranged her work so as to give the two days of the convention to her guest. She had accompanied the old lady to her meetings and between times had visited with her various places of interest in the city, 'Aunt Diantha iwas as ienthusiastic as a child." "T have always tried to keep up to date in my reading," she re- 600 marked one evening, "but lawsy me, without actually seeing what's going on in the world it's hard to realize how things are changing. I can hardly believe the world I lived in when I was your age and this progressive world of yours, are the same." "T suppose there have been great changes," said Claire, "especially for women." She had been wanting an opportunity to let Aunt Diantha know that while she was welcome to prolong her visit as long as she liked, that she could not expect her niece to continue to spend all her time as hostess. "For instance,' she continued casually, "I suppose in your young days it was quite an unknown thing for a woman to have a business or profession of her own as I do." "Lawsy me, such a thing had never been heard of. There was only one profession for a woman; that was homemaking." "The one profession," Phil remarked dryly from behind his paper, "that will soon be going by the boards." Aunt Diantha darted a questioning glance from Phil to Claire and the latter felt ill at ease. "Just what is your work, Clary? I never have known much about it." She seemed eager. "I've been terribly interested in reading articles 'in the magazines about the things women are doing." Claire had been afraid Aunt Diantha would be too old-fashioned to appreciate a modern woman's point of view and her obligations. "You know, I was reading just the other day," the old lady went on," about all the marvelous changes that have come about for women in the last hundred years. Instead of being nothing more than househo: d drudges as they used to be, now, this article said, they are workRELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE ing side by side with men in almost every phase of life. It made me wish, almost, that I was young again. But what is it that you are specially interested in, Clary?" "T have a studio down town where I teach interior decorating and other phases of applied art. It's very fascinating. I have more than fifty students enrolled this year." Her eyes glanced uneasily at Phil. "Lawsy me," exclaimed Aunt Diantha, "it must keep you busy— taking care of Philip and Angela and keeping up your home, and belonging to all those clubs you were telling me about." "It does, of course," Claire conceded, expecting to see Phil's paper lowered. "But it's interesting and important, and after all that's what life is for. I have help of course. Nellie who helps me in the house is having her vacation this week. But the two assistants I have at the studio have been running things the last two days. I'll have to go down tomorrow, though, and see how things are coming." "Tsn't it time Angela was home?" Phil asked abruptly. "Where is the child, anyhow? When Nellie is gone she never seems to know when it is time to come home." Again Aunt Diantha's bird-like glance darted from Claire to Phil. Claire was sure she sensed something of the rift that was widening between them. "T'll call her," Claire said, rising and going to the 'phone. "She ran over to Blake's a while ago." "Ts that the neighbor with the twins and the little new baby she is always talking about?" Aunt Diantha wanted to know. LTHOUGH Aunt Diantha had commented upon Claire's youthful appearance the evening of her arrival, before the second week THE RAPIDS of her visit had passed she had detected the tired, worried lines that showed when her' niece was not freshly made-up, and that her glowing color and smoothness of skin were the results of "applied art" rather than of youth and vigor. The old lady had become very thoughtful. She was trying to help about the house since Nellie had written that she was going to be married and would not be back, and one of the assistants at the studio was ill. Phil seemed chronically irritable. Two evenings in succession he telephoned he would not be home for dinner and had not come in until—well, Aunt Diantha wondered at what hour. Her feminine instinct told her that Claire was worried. Besides Claire was over-crowded with committee work. The chairman of the project committee of the Allied Arts Club of which she was president, had fallen down on her work and Claire had had to step in. She had also had to fill in with a paper for another club because the expected Igcturer had failed. One evening she came home so tired and haggard that: Aunt Diantha was alarmed. "Lawsy me, Clary, you look like a rag. What is the matter?" "I'm tired, that's all," and Claire began enumerating the tasks and irritations of the day. "Well I should think you would be. All that's enough to kill two or three women." A grim determination suddenly came into the old lady's face. "Now you lie right down on the couch and I'll get you some hot milk and toast, then I'm coming in here and give you a downright lecturing I've been saving up tor some days. When she reappeared with a tray Claire asked: 601 "Tsn't Angela here? Hasn't Phil —been home?" "Angela's still over to Drake's," the old lady said seating herself beside the couch. 'The way she's wrapped up in those babies is pitiful. It seems a shame a little thing as wild over babies as she is, can't have some in her own home and not have to go off to the neighbors for the companionship every child has a right to. And as for Philip, he called up a little while ago to see if you were home yet. When I told him you hadn't come he said to tell you he would be going over to Bellview this evening and might not be back until morning." Claire put the bowl of hot milk down. The old lady noticed that her hands were shaking, and that a look of fear had leaped into her unhappy eyes. "Lawsy me, Clary, I guess it gets pretty monotonous to a fine man like Philip to come home night after night and find his wife either out to a club meeting or so tired from her business that she isn't any kind of companion for him. Men are not made so they appreciate things like that, even if the things their wives do are clever and important. I've been wondering, Clary, if you modern women with all your advantages and opportunities might not mebbe be running away from the most important things in the world, into mighty serious danger." The old lady wasn't sure Claire heard, for she suddenly asked, "You—you are sure—he said— he was going to Bellview?" and she burst into tears. "O, Aunt Diantha—you are right," she sobbed hysterically. "Of course there is nothing in the world that matters so much as Phil and Angela—and a real home. I've been blind, and now I can see—- but—it is too late." 602 The old lady tried to soothe her. "What do you mean to late?" "T have known that Phil didn't approve of my doing so much outside the home, and—that—he was becoming interested in that—" "Now you just calm yourself, Clary, and pull yourself together. I don't believe it 7s too late—he just said—he might go." Before Claire could protest the little old lady was at the telephone giving Phil's office number. The seconds that elapsed before the answer came, seemed interminable to Claire., "Hello. Is this Philip? Lawsy, I'm glad you are not gone. Come home quick. Clary is sick and wants you. Yes. Yes." "He'll be here before you get your eyes dried, he was that worried and excited. And I hope, my dear, that you take his hand and steer clear RELIEF SOCIETY MAGAZINE of those rapids that are before you." "Thank you, Aunt Diantha. I'll write my resignation to two or three clubs right tonight and will turn over the active part of the studio work to Margaret. I never realized until lately that the modern woman may make of her advantages and opportunities a real stumbling block to her own happiness. I want all that this age has given to women, but I also want more than anything else the blessings of real wifehood arid motherhood that I have come so near to losing. "Will you call Angela, Aunt Diantha? I wonder—what she would think if I should tell her that— maybe God will send her a little brother or sister soon?" The little old lady's eyes were shining when she took down the receiver again, as she heard Phil's eager step coming up. The walk. SUNNSET CLIFFS, CALIFORNIA There's a spot in my heart where fond memories dwell, deep in the heart of Nature's rugged beauty—Sunset Cliffs. There the ocean roars, the wild waves dashing themselves upon the rocky coast line of California. The deep blue and green shades of the mighty ocean blend in the myriad of hues of Sunset Cliffs. At twilight when the sun is sinking over the horizon, these rocky shelves resembling stairways for mythical giants, glow their prettiest. One stands entranced by the beauty spot, speechless with wonder at the marvels of Nature.—Glen Perrins.